CHAPTER 9 have been identified from the fossil record. At least one of these hominins became a tool user between 2.5 and 3.0 mya. This change was so fundamental that our subsequent evolu-tion turned in a completely new direction, to one that is both biological and cultural. In fact, the very first early hominin discovery from Africa (indeed, from anywhere) came from the Taung site back in 1924. The story of the discovery of the beautifully pre-served child’s skull from Taung is a fascinating tale (Fig.
By 2.5 million years ago, there were at least 2 evolutionary lines of hominins descended from the early australopithecines. One line apparently was adapted primarily to the food resources in lake margin grassland environments and had an omnivorous diet that increasingly included meat. It was there in 1936 that he found the first known adult Australopithecus africanus while excavating in Sterkfontein cave. In 1938, he discovered more fossil remains of africanus and other early hominins in Kromdraai cave. Some of these fossils were larger boned and more muscular with powerful jaws.
Robert Broom's most important discoveries were made in the Sterkfontein valley of South Africa. It was there in 1936 that he found the first known adult Australopithecus africanus while excavating in Sterkfontein cave. In 1938, he discovered more fossil remains of africanus and other early hominins in Kromdraai cave. Some of these fossils were larger boned and more muscular with powerful jaws.
Oldowan tools were used during the Lower Paleolithic period, 2.6 million years ago up until 1.7 million years ago, by ancient hominins across much of Africa, South Asia, the Middle East and Europe. This technological industry was followed by the more sophisticated Acheulean industry. The archaeological layer in which the human remains, hundreds of Oldowan stone tools, and numerous animal bones were unearthed is dated approximately 1.6-1.8 million years ago. The site yields the earliest unequivocal evidence for presence of early humans outside the African continent.
A. afarensis The most famous specimen of Australopithecus - Lucy - belongs to the species, A. afarensis. Found at sites in East Africa (e.g., Laetoli, Hadar), A. afarensis-which spans a time range between 3.8-2.8 Mya-has provided a great deal of fossil information concerning the morphology of early hominids. A. africanus is very similar to A. afarensis in postcranial anatomy, with elements of the pelvis, ribs, and vertebrae exhibiting similar characteristics. The cranium of A. africanus is somewhat different, with a higher degree of cranial flexion and no crests (sagittal or compound T-N), as observed in
Premodern Humans!#CHAPTER 11 hominins have been discovered widely from England, France, Spain, Germany, Italy, Hungary, and Greece. Africa, as well, probably continued as a central area of hominin occupation, and finds have come from North, East, and South Africa. Premodern Humans!#CHAPTER 11 EUROPE More fossil hominins of Middle Pleistocene age have been found in Europe than in any other region. Maybe it’s because more archaeologists have been searching longer in Europe than elsewhere.
Following preliminary analysis of the fossils, the primary researchers have suggested placing these early hominins in a separate genus— Orrorin .The last group of fossil hominins thought to date to the late Miocene (that is, earlier than 5 mya) comes from the Middle Awash in the Afar Triangle of Ethiopia. In fact, the very first early hominin discovery from Africa (indeed, from anywhere) came from the Taung site back in 1924. The story of the discovery of the beautifully pre-served child’s skull from Taung is a fascinating tale (Fig.
First of all, Leakey argued that members of this group were the early Olduvai toolmakers; this view is still widely held, although it’s difficult to prove. Second, and most significantly, by calling this group Homo, Leakey was arguing for at least two sepa-rate branches of hominin evolution in the Plio-Pleistocene. In fact, the very first early hominin discovery from Africa (indeed, from anywhere) came from the Taung site back in 1924. The story of the discovery of the beautifully pre-served child’s skull from Taung is a fascinating tale (Fig.
Sahelanthropus was the earliest, dating 7-6 million years ago. Orrorin lived about 6 million years ago, while Ardipithecus remains have been dated to 5.8-4.4 million years ago. At present, the vote is still out as to whether any of these three primates were in fact true hominins and if they were our ancestors. It was there in 1936 that he found the first known adult Australopithecus africanus while excavating in Sterkfontein cave. In 1938, he discovered more fossil remains of africanus and other early hominins in Kromdraai cave. Some of these fossils were larger boned and more muscular with powerful jaws.
This second, more conservative line of early hominins died out by 1 million years ago or shortly before then. It is likely that all of the early hominins, including humans, supplemented their diets with protein and fat rich termites and ants just as some chimpanzees do today. It was there in 1936 that he found the first known adult Australopithecus africanus while excavating in Sterkfontein cave. In 1938, he discovered more fossil remains of africanus and other early hominins in Kromdraai cave. Some of these fossils were larger boned and more muscular with powerful jaws.