Gardasil 9 prevents infection with the same four high-risk HPV types plus five additional high-risk HPV types (31, 33, 45, 52, and 58) and is therefore called a nonavalent, or 9-valent, vaccine. All three vaccines are given through a series of three injections into muscle tissue over a 6-month period. The FDA has approved Gardasil and Gardasil 9 for use in females ages 9 through 26 for the prevention of HPV-caused cervical, vulvar, vaginal, and anal cancers; precancerous cervical, vulvar, vaginal, and anal lesions; and genital warts.
HPV vaccine is important because it can prevent most cases of cervical cancer in females, if it is given before a person is exposed to the virus. Protection from HPV vaccine is expected to be long-lasting. But vaccination is not a substitute for cervical cancer screening. Women should still get regular Pap tests. The vaccine you are getting is one of two HPV vaccines that can be given to prevent cervical cancer. It is given to females only. The other vaccine may be given to both males and females.
1 The HPV (human papillomavirus) vaccine protects against HPV. 2  There are many types of HPV. 3  Some types of the virus can cause genital warts. 4  Other types can cause cervical cancer and some uncommon cancers, such as vaginal and anal cancer. The HPV vaccine will protect my child from getting some of the most common types of HPV. 1  True That's right. 2  The HPV vaccines protect against the most common types of HPV that cause problems. 3  False Sorry, that's not right.
Gardasil and Gardasil 9 are also approved for use in males for the prevention of HPV-caused anal cancer, precancerous anal lesions, and genital warts. Gardasil is approved for use in males ages 9 through 26, and Gardasil 9 is approved for use in males ages 9 through 15. The FDA has approved Gardasil and Gardasil 9 for use in females ages 9 through 26 for the prevention of HPV-caused cervical, vulvar, vaginal, and anal cancers; precancerous cervical, vulvar, vaginal, and anal lesions;
Cervarix is a vaccine against certain types of cancer-causing human papillomavirus (HPV). Cervarix is designed to prevent infection from HPV types 16 and 18, that cause about 70% of cervical cancer cases. These types also cause most HPV-induced genital and head and neck cancers. Additionally, some cross-reactive protection against virus strains 45 and 31 were shown in clinical trials
The US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has approved Gardasil 9, a new vaccine for human papillomavirus (HPV) . The vaccine is expected to become available in February 2015. Gardasil 9 protects against 9 types of HPV, more than the vaccines already on the market, Gardasil and Cervarix. The other vaccine, Cervarix, may still be available, but it is not widely used currently in the US. Gardasil 9 also increases protection against other cancers caused by HPV, including cancers of the vulva, vagina, penis, anus, and throat.
HPV vaccine is important because it protects against cancers caused by human papillomavirus (HPV) infection. HPV is a very common virus; nearly 80 million people—about one in four—are currently infected in the United States. All kids who are 11 or 12 years old should get the three-dose series of HPV vaccine to protect against HPV. Teen boys and girls who did not start or finish the HPV vaccine series when they were younger should get it now. Young women can get HPV vaccine through age 26, and young men can get vaccinated through age 21.
Here's what you need to know about meningitis prevention. There are two HPV vaccines: Gardasil and Cervarix. Gardasil, which protects against four HPV types (6, 11, 16, and 18), is approved by the FDA for use by females aged 9-26 to help prevent cancer of the cervix, vagina, and vulva; genital warts, and anal cancer. It's also approved for males aged 9-26 to help prevent genital warts and anal cancer. Cervarix targets HPV types 16 and 18. It's approved for females aged 10-25 to help prevent cervical cancer. Both are relatively new vaccines -- the FDA approved Gardasil in 2006 and Cervarix in 2009. And that makes some parents uneasy.
The vaccine can reduce the risk of your child getting genital warts or cervical cancer caused by some of the most common types of HPV infection. The HPV vaccine also protects against anogenital cancers. Research is under way to see if the vaccine can be used to prevent oral cancers also. The HPV vaccine will protect my child from getting some of the most common types of HPV. 1  True That's right. 2  The HPV vaccines protect against the most common types of HPV that cause problems. 3  False Sorry, that's not right.
Cervarix targets HPV types 16 and 18. It's approved for females aged 10-25 to help prevent cervical cancer. Both are relatively new vaccines -- the FDA approved Gardasil in 2006 and Cervarix in 2009. It's also approved for males aged 9-26 to help prevent genital warts and anal cancer. Cervarix targets HPV types 16 and 18. It's approved for females aged 10-25 to help prevent cervical cancer. Both are relatively new vaccines -- the FDA approved Gardasil in 2006 and Cervarix in 2009. And that makes some parents uneasy.