Freeze thaw testing is a type of stability test in which you freeze your formula, then thaw it out, and test to see what effect the process has on your product. 
For native starches, the freeze–thaw stability is one of the key determinants for their use as the clean-label ingredients in frozen food products. It has been shown that syneresis varies considerably according to botanical source of starches (Praznik et al., 1999, Takeiti et al., 2007 and Yaun and Thompson, 1998). ► Freeze–thaw stability of twenty-six starch gels were determined and compared. ► Amylose content and distribution of amylopectin short chains influenced syneresis. ► Syneresis of freeze–thawed gel would be predicted from starch structural features.
Ultimate Kit. A convenient swiss meringue that is freeze-thaw stable so it can be frozen to be used later when needed. Thanks to the freeze-thaw stable properties of iota carrageenan and its synergy with guar gum, we can enhance the properties of a traditional swiss meringue. If you want to add some flavor to the meringue, just infuse the egg whites first with the selected ingredient.
It is well known that hydrophilic solutes (such as sugars and polyols) can improve the freeze-thaw stability of O/W emulsions, for example, sucrose, maltose, glucose, corn syrups, glycerol, and sorbitol (Thanasukarn and others; Ghosh and others; Gu and others; Cornacchia and Roos). This freeze-concentration effect has important consequences for the freeze-thaw stability of emulsions. Figure 8. The phase behavior of a solute–water mixture can be described by a phase diagram, which specifies the type of system formed under different conditions, such as composition and temperature.
Minor's Freeze Thaw Thickener 1 x 35 pounds. A free flowing powder, when reconstituted with water, has a slightly starchy mild flavor. Replaces other starches used in soup and sauce recipes to ensure freeze-thaw stability. Excellent for cook/chill or frozen applications. Freeze-thaw stable. Preparation. To make a roux, combine 13.5 oz (2-2/3 cups) Freeze/Thaw Thickener with 2 qt. cool water. Mix with a wire whip until smooth and all starch is dissolved. Gradually add to a hot liquid, stirring constantly.
Fats and oils. The type of oil used also has a major effect on the freeze-thaw stability of emulsion-based systems (Vanapalli and others; Cornacchia and Roos; Hernandez-Carrion and others; Magnusson and others). One of the most important factors is the crystallization behavior of the oil phase. This freeze-concentration effect has important consequences for the freeze-thaw stability of emulsions. Figure 8. The phase behavior of a solute–water mixture can be described by a phase diagram, which specifies the type of system formed under different conditions, such as composition and temperature.
The effect on the freeze–thaw stability by exchanging sucrose in the water phase to other sugars such as glucose (Sigma–Aldrich Inc, St Louis, USA), trehalose (Cargill Inc., Minneapolis, USA) and glucose-fructose syrup (Cargill Inc., Minneapolis, USA) was investigated. Emulsion was prepared with de-waxed sunflower and corn oil and the freeze–thaw stability was compared with the stability of mayonnaise prepared with oils with the naturally occurring waxes retained. Emulsions were also prepared with sunflower oil with addition of waxes (1 wt %).
This unique freeze-thaw ability (and stability) comes from being modified so that it has a highly stable viscosity that can tolerate prolonged, extended : There are many varieties of freeze-thaw stable starches we can provide you, including: corn starch, potato starch, rice starch, and tapioca starch. When you need to get a quote or place an order for your next delivery of freeze thaw starch, our ingredients specialists can help you get your delivery faster and for less. With numerous warehouses positioned across the U.S., we can assure a speedy delivery of all your starch needs.