The Dominican Republic is a Caribbean country that occupies the eastern two-thirds of the Caribbean island of Hispaniola. The western one-third of Hispaniola is occupied by the country of Haiti. To the north lies the North Atlantic Ocean, while the Caribbean Sea lies to the south. Eat [edit]. Food in the Dominican Republic is typical Caribbean fare, with lots of tropical fruits, rice, beans, and seafood. Most restaurant meals will cost an additional 16% tax plus 10% service: for very good service, it is customary to leave an additional 10%.
Sitting on the easternmost tip of the island of Hispaniola in the Dominican Republic, Punta Cana is a general term used to describe the beaches of Bavaro, Bávaro, Higueey higüey Macao And, uvero alto. Among others most spend their vacation In the, bavaro bávaro region which is closest. to the airport Safety. Punta Cana is one of the safest vacation spots in the Caribbean, and tourists should feel comfortable traveling outside of the hotel zone. However, petty theft (especially of cell phones, according to some) does sometimes occur, so you should be careful when carrying valuables with you.
Hurricanes and earthquakes are facts of life in this part of the Caribbean. Hospitals. Most medical care in Santo Domingo is adequate for the majority of health problems. For more details, see the Dominican Republic Crime and Safety Report published annually by the State Department's Bureau of Diplomatic Security. Crime. The overall threat of crime in the Dominican Republic is high, and although security tends to be better in tourist areas, no place in the country is immune from crime, violent or otherwise. For example, the top five most violent cities in the D.R. include Samana, while the rate of assaults was highest in La Romana
For more information, contact the Embassy of the Dominican Republic. Foreigners may gain the right to reside in the Dominican Republic by acquiring a residence visa from the Foreign Relations Ministry and a temporary or permanent residence card from the Immigration Department. A student visa is also required.
Sitting on the easternmost tip of the island of Hispaniola in the Dominican Republic, Punta Cana is a general term used to describe the beaches of Bavaro, Bávaro, Higueey higüey Macao And, uvero alto. among others Safety. Punta Cana is one of the safest vacation spots in the Caribbean, and tourists should feel comfortable traveling outside of the hotel zone. However, petty theft (especially of cell phones, according to some) does sometimes occur, so you should be careful when carrying valuables with you.
Punta Cana attracts at least 750,000 visitors to its beaches every year, notes the Frommer's travel website. While the area is a popular destination for travelers, it is important to remain vigilant when traveling in the Dominican Republic as health and safety issues would likely ruin long-awaited vacation plans. Request medication prescriptions that will last the length of your trip and have your doctor write a note explaining that the medications have been prescribed to you. Ask your doctor for a prescription for an antimalarial drug as well, as the disease is prevalent throughout the Dominican Republic.
Millions of Americans visit the Dominican Republic each year without problems, but crime nonetheless is a serious problem in this Caribbean nation. Violent crime only rarely touches visitors, but property crimes are more common and sometimes tourists are specifically targeted. Credit-card fraud is a particular concern. Crime. The overall threat of crime in the Dominican Republic is high, and although security tends to be better in tourist areas, no place in the country is immune from crime, violent or otherwise. For example, the top five most violent cities in the D.R. include Samana, while the rate of assaults was highest in La Romana
The most expensive and arguably most beautiful part of the Dominican Republic, Punta Cana is where most of the luxury, all-inclusive resorts are. The Dominican Republic is on the east side of the island and Haiti is on the west. For those seeking a luxury vacation, the biggest negative will be that the areas off resort property are often poverty-stricken, as much of this island nation lives at or below the poverty line.
The Caribbean Basin Security Initiative complements bilateral programs in the Dominican Republic and provides additional assistance for law enforcement, citizen safety, and rule of law programs. Bilateral Economic Relations. The Dominican Republic's most important trading partner is the United States. The Dominican Republic maintains an embassy in the United States at 1715 22nd Street NW, Washington, DC 20008 (tel. 202-332-6280). More information about the Dominican Republic is available from the Department of State and other sources, some of which are listed here: