1 Top Posts — WordPress.com-June 10, 2011 […] OUTRAGE OF THE WEEK: Cops Say It’s ILLEGAL for Kids to Play Outside, Unsupervised Hi Folks — Here it is again. 2  The creeping idea that anytime our kids are outside without us they are in DANGER, thus […] […]. We live in the woods, about 80 acres of it surrounds us, and my kids play outdoors in our own yard for periods of time, and they’re only 2 & 4 years old. As they get older, the plan is for them to be free to play in the “woods at large” which surrounds us. Anna Exactly right. Kids are SUPPOSED to be outside.
If you don't feel comfortable letting him play outside alone and unsupervised then he's not old enough. The correct age to let a child play outside unattended depends on the child. Nobody knows your child like you do...you're with him all the time and you know best what his responsability level is. I have a 1 year old and 4 year old. They play outside by themselves all the time... for hours at time. BUT they are in the backyard and I can keep an eye on them from windows in the kitchen, dining room, family room and my office (tons of windows).
Mom says, Go outside and play.. Kids go outside and play. It used to be that simple. But for a number of reasons, few parents these days feel comfortable letting their children roam the neighborhood without keeping a watchful eye.
As they grow older, they will have plenty of time to play outside on their own.. And Really, our kids are only 2,3,4,5 for a very short time, so I think it pays off to spend more time with your kids and less time on dinner and chores. Lets enjoy our kids while they are young. They will grow up fast enough. Stranger danger is the top concern related to allowing a child of any age to play outside alone. As a result, moms stress the importance of considering your neighborhood's safety before alowing solo playtime outside.
The officer said that kids under ten, by law, are not allowed outside, unsupervised except in their parents’ yard. The officer did not come to our house, but visited the mom of two of my son’s good friends. We live in the woods, about 80 acres of it surrounds us, and my kids play outdoors in our own yard for periods of time, and they’re only 2 & 4 years old. As they get older, the plan is for them to be free to play in the “woods at large” which surrounds us. Anna Exactly right. Kids are SUPPOSED to be outside.
Granted, the focus of that page is about the decision of when it’s OK to leave a child home alone for a bit, but it seems to me that the same criteria would apply to allowing a child to play outside unsupervised for a period of time. We live in the woods, about 80 acres of it surrounds us, and my kids play outdoors in our own yard for periods of time, and they’re only 2 & 4 years old. As they get older, the plan is for them to be free to play in the “woods at large” which surrounds us. Anna Exactly right. Kids are SUPPOSED to be outside.
Report Abuse. Children should not be allowed to play in the street at 5 especially under 5. I think leaving your kid home alone at the age of 13 is appropriate and the minimum age required by law for a babysitter i think is 13. Momof1 · 9 years ago. Report Abuse. It's not illegal to allow a child under five to play out in the street. But obviously it's not a good idea to let them do so on their own with no adult supervision. There is no minimum legal age to leave a child alone on their own in the house
My daughter is two she gets to go outside in the backyard whenever she wants. I don’t understand how its not okay to let your child play outside alone at 6 years old. If you can see them and they know the rules there shouldn’t be a problem. My son is going to be 9 in a couple weeks, he had been playing outside with the neighbor kids since he was 4, their kids were 4, 6, and 8 and the 8 year old kept an eye on the younger ones and is very responsible. My son doesn’t like to play outside alone even at almost 9.
If I don't particularly feel like socializing or being outside, I bring a book. My kids can't play outside alone, and they aren't allowed to play in the road. Even though we live in a development I don't know when I'll allow my kids to play outside alone, but I can't see it in the near future. I'm guessing it will be in a few years. 