Glucose Fermentation: A. Escherichia coli-The color change from red to yellow indicates acid production. Note the large amount of gas production by E. coli. B. Proteus vulgaris-This organism is positive for acid but this bubble is too small to score this test as a clear positive for gas production. BACK TO LIST. 
There are two gene clusters responsible for sucrose catabolism in E. coli: the scr regulon, encoding a sucrose phosphotransferase system (PTS) (13, 14), and the chromosomally carried sucrose catabolism (csc) regulon, encoding a sucrose non-PTS utilization system (11). The high growth rate of ∼1 h −1 on 2% sucrose or 2% glucose was similar to that reported previously for E. coli W on minimal medium (26). Also as shown for EC3132, the csc genes were transcriptionally repressed in the absence of sucrose and derepressed in the presence of 2% sucrose (Fig. 2).
Some common modes of fermentation in bacteria other than E. coli include lactic acid fermentation, butyric acid fermentation, propionic acid fermentation, ethanol fermentation, and mixed acid fermentation. 1 is always made by substrate level phosphorylation. 2  which is generated during the oxidation of sugars (and other reduced organic compounds) must be re-oxidized to NAD + during the late steps in the fermentation process. 3  E. coli employs the “mixed acid” fermentation pathway.
Resolved Question: I am doing carbohydrate fermentation testing on organism saccharomyces cerevisiae and E. Coli,we used the phenol red fermentation tubes. the yeast came out profile glucose AG, fructose A, Mannitol A,which i believe are the expected results. 
Abstract. Fermentations of lactose, glucose and galactose using Escherichia coli WDHL, a hydrogen over producer strain, were performed. With glucose as substrate pyruvate was mainly routed to the lactate pathway, resulting in hydrogen production and yield of 1037 mL and 0.30 mol H 2 /mol of glucose, respectively. Batch culture of E. coli WDHL using glucose as substrate. (A) Hydrogen production (■) and glucose consumption (●). (B) Production of fermentative metabolites: succinate (♦), lactate (□), formate (○), ethanol (△) and acetate (-▴-).
Summary. E. coli performs a mixed acid fermentation that operates in two stages. In the first stage, glucose is first converted to pyruvate by the glycolysis pathway. This results in the net production of two ATPs which are made by SLP reactions. 1 is always made by substrate level phosphorylation. 2  which is generated during the oxidation of sugars (and other reduced organic compounds) must be re-oxidized to NAD + during the late steps in the fermentation process. 3  E. coli employs the “mixed acid” fermentation pathway.
E. Coli   Escherichia coli, usually abbreviated to E. coli, (coli is latin for of the colon) discovered by Theodor Escherich, a German pediatrician and bacteriologist, i … s one of the main species of bacteria that live in the lower intestines of mammals, known as gut flora. 
Studies show that both Do E.coli and S.epidermidis ferment glucose. Please see the links below: - E. Coli. - E. coli. - S. Epidermis. I hope this helps. Please feel free to ask a followup question if necessary. If not, please click the green 'Accept' button on this page. What Customers are Saying: 1  I feel so much better today, and upon further investigation believe that there is a chance that the responses I got saved me from a serious, even life threatening situation. 2  I am very grateful to the experts who answered me. 3  Susan O. USA.
The fermentation of lactose, glucose, and galactose was studied with E. coli WDHL, a strain in which hycA and lacI were deleted to improve hydrogen production (Rosales-Colunga et al., 2010b). Batch culture of E. coli WDHL using glucose as substrate. (A) Hydrogen production (■) and glucose consumption (●). (B) Production of fermentative metabolites: succinate (♦), lactate (□), formate (○), ethanol (△) and acetate (-▴-).
Sucrose is an industrially important carbon source for microbial fermentation. Sucrose utilization in Escherichia coli, however, is poorly understood, and most industrial strains cannot utilize sucrose. The roles of the chromosomally encoded sucrose catabolism (csc) genes in E. coli W were examined by knockout and overexpression experiments. The high growth rate of ∼1 h −1 on 2% sucrose or 2% glucose was similar to that reported previously for E. coli W on minimal medium (26). Also as shown for EC3132, the csc genes were transcriptionally repressed in the absence of sucrose and derepressed in the presence of 2% sucrose (Fig. 2).