Best Answer: Dna is a double helical structure with two strands of nitrogenous bases being held together by hydrogen bonds. Phosphodiester bonds hold bases together on the same strand. Between deoxyribose and a phosphate group. Hydrogen bonds hold the two strands together. Adenine and Thymine have 2 H bonds always. Guanine and Cytosine have 3 H bonds alway
See Fig. 1. The nucleotides within each strand are held together by the phosphodiester bonds between the 5' carbon of one nucleotide and the 3 ' carbon of the adjacent nucleotdie. These strong covalent bonds form the the glue that holds the sugar/phosphate backbone together and thus act to keep each strand together. The two strands of DNA are held together by weak hydrogen bonds (remember, something must hold them together!) between the nitrogenous bases. The interesting (and very important) aspect of the Watson-Crick model is that these hydrogen bonds are base specific
Each strand of the double helix is held together by covalent bonds between deoxyribose sugar and phosphate groups (on the 3' and 5' carbons) (making up the backbone). The bases-purines or pyrimidines - (adenine, guanine, cytosine and thymine) are also bonded onto the deoxyribose sugar (on 1' carbon) covalently. Report Abuse. Hydrogen bonds hold the two helices together to form a double helix. I also remember somethign called base stacking, which if i recall was hydrogen bonding of the same strand, which promoted the helical nature and enforced rigidity of the structure.
That is, A (adenine) can only form hydrogen bonds with T (thymine) and C (cytosine) can only form bonds with G (guanine). This means, that if you know the sequence of bases of one strand, you know the sequence of bases of the other strand. The strands is such a molecule are said to be complementary. These strong covalent bonds form the the glue that holds the sugar/phosphate backbone together and thus act to keep each strand together. The two strands of DNA are held together by weak hydrogen bonds (remember, something must hold them together!) between the nitrogenous bases.
Hydrogen Bonds are the bonds that hold the complimentary bases together. G to C and A to T. However the bonds that hold the nucleotides together on each side of the double h … elix are called Phosphodiester bonds or linkages.    Hydrogen bonding. 
Confidence votes 23. Hydrogen Bonds are the bonds that hold the complimentary bases together. G to C and A to T. However the bonds that hold the nucleotides together on each side of the double helix are called Phosphodiester bonds or linkages. Hydrogen bonding. DNA base pairs are held together by Hydrogen Bonds. Adenine and Thymine have 2 bonds that hold them together while Cysteine and Guanine have 3 bonds that hold them toge … ther. The hydrogen bonds generally occur between a Nitrogen and a carbonyl oxygen.
The sugar and phosphate group make up the backbone of the DNA double helix, while the bases are located in the middle. A chemical bond between the phosphate group of one nucleotide and the sugar of a neighboring nucleotide holds the backbone together. Chemical bonds (hydrogen bonds) between the bases that are across from one another hold the two strands of the double helix together. Bases. Bases. There are four types of bases in DNA. They are called: * Adenine (A). * Cytosine (C). * Guanine (G). * Thymine (T). Courtesy of the National Human Genome Research Institution. Bases are the part of DNA that stores information and gives DNA the ability to encode phenotype, a person’s visible traits.
The DNA double helix is held together by hydrogen bonds and the nucleotide bases Adenine, Guanine, Cytosine, or Thymine. Check out the source I provided. There's a great diagram of the double helix. Source(s): http://www.ba-education.demon.co.uk/for/... Report Abuse. Hydrogen bonds hold the two helices together to form a double helix. I also remember somethign called base stacking, which if i recall was hydrogen bonding of the same strand, which promoted the helical nature and enforced rigidity of the structure.
Nucleic Acids. The structure of DNA consists of two strands of nucleotides that are paired together to form a ladder-like structure. One strand of DNA is the template from which the other one is built. The nitrogenous bases of each nucleotide pair together in specific combinations in order to form the structure of DNA. Description: The structure of DNA consists of two strands of nucleotides that are paired together to form a ladder-like structure. Discover the nitrogenous bases of each nucleotide and how they combine into specific combinations