Report Abuse. Yes, olives are very healthy for you and the green are healthier than the black. Olives can be stuffed with several different things, I have had green olives stuffed with pimento and I have tried them stuffed with blue cheese. Black Greek olives are my favorite though. Barbara M · 8 years ago. 
Sodium. Black olives are canned in salty brine to help extend their shelf life and enhance their flavor. A serving of 10 large black olives contains 310 milligrams of sodium. Daily limits of sodium fall between 1,500 milligrams, if you have heart problems, and 2,300 milligrams, if you are a healthy adult. The rest of the fat in black olives is the healthy, unsaturated variety. The polyunsaturated fats in black olives can help lower your cholesterol and cut your risk of developing type 2 diabetes. These fats can also protect you from high blood pressure and an abnormal heart rate.
The Health Benefits of Olives. Traditionally cured olives, such as those found at most olive bars, offer a host of health benefits. For starters, they're rich in iron, vitamin E and copper, and are an excellent source of fiber. The olive tree was valued as a symbol of peace and happiness, while olives were used as food and a source of oil. Olive soup is a good remedy for a sore throat, according to traditional Chinese medicine (it's also the only time olives are used in Chinese cuisine).
1 Dozens of health-protective nutrients have been identified in olives, and recent studies have taken a very close look at olive varieties, olive processing, and changes that take place in olive nutrients. 2  The overall conclusion from these studies is exciting for anyone who loves olives of all varieties. 1 To make it, put pitted olives in a food processor with olive oil, garlic, and your favorite seasonings. 2  Toss pasta with chopped olives, tomatoes, garlic, olive oil and fresh herbs of your choice. 3  Marinate olives in olive oil, lemon zest, coriander seeds and cumin seeds.
The main type of fat found in all kinds of olive oil is monounsaturated fatty acids (MUFAs). MUFAs are actually considered a healthy dietary fat. If your diet replaces saturated and trans fats with unsaturated fats such as MUFAs and polyunsaturated fats (PUFAs), you may gain certain health benefits. 
The Mediterranean diet is high in healthy fats, mainly from fish and olive oil. Foods from plants -- vegetables, beans, fruits, grains, nuts and seeds -- are the main foods upon which meals are based. Animal protein, mostly fish and poultry, are added in lesser amounts. The humble olive, once a supporting character in salads, on pizzas or in a martini, has risen to nutritional super-stardom. An array of health-boosting olives is available, including ubiquitous black olives, oil-cured Kalamata olives, and Manzanillas -- green Spanish olives often stuffed with pimentos. Olive oil, considered the healthiest oil, is also available in different varietie
Ten large olives contain about 5 grams of fat. Black olives are a tasty addition to pasta sauce, tacos and antipasti platters, and they supply small doses of iron, calcium and vitamin A. They also contain heart-healthy unsaturated fats. The rest of the fat in black olives is the healthy, unsaturated variety. The polyunsaturated fats in black olives can help lower your cholesterol and cut your risk of developing type 2 diabetes. These fats can also protect you from high blood pressure and an abnormal heart rate.
Healthy Fat. Olives and olive oil are a rich source of healthy monounsaturated fats. Healthy fats are essential to your good health, and should contribute approximately 30 percent of the calories to your diet. The humble olive, once a supporting character in salads, on pizzas or in a martini, has risen to nutritional super-stardom. An array of health-boosting olives is available, including ubiquitous black olives, oil-cured Kalamata olives, and Manzanillas -- green Spanish olives often stuffed with pimentos. Olive oil, considered the healthiest oil, is also available in different varieties
Today everyone knows how good olive oil is for health, but the humble olive is often passed up (often because they've unfairly gotten a bad rap for being high in fat). However, olives are actually a very healthy fruit, one that's been lending superb nutrition to mankind for centuries. So there's no need to pass up that tempting olive bar at the market any longer -- olives are good for you! The olive tree was valued as a symbol of peace and happiness, while olives were used as food and a source of oil. Olive soup is a good remedy for a sore throat, according to traditional Chinese medicine (it's also the only time olives are used in Chinese cuisine).