Best Answer: B. Remember that transcription is from DNA to mRNA. Hence, REVERSE transcription would be the exact opposite; mRNA to DNA. And it's cDNA as post-modified mRNA has no introns. Hence when you reverse transcribe the mRNA, it can only form complementary DNA (cDNA). 
A single-stranded DNA is produced from the retrotransposon RNA template by the enzyme reverse transcriptase. The RNA is removed by the enzyme RNAse. The DNA is circularized and a cDNA strand is synthesized to create a double-stranded, circular copy of the retrotransposon. The viral genome is released into the host cell, from which a copy of DNA is made by the help of the enzyme reverse transcriptase. The cDNA is integrated into the host chromosome. The virus remains unexpressed until the host's immune system is stimulated.
NRTIs inhibit the reverse transcriptase (RT), an enzyme that controls the replication of the genetic material of the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). The first NRTI was zidovudine, approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in 1987, which was the first step towards treatment of HIV. The first nucleoside reverse-transcriptase inhibitor with in vitro anti-HIV activity was zidovudine. Since zidovudine was approved in 1987, six nucleosides and one nucleotide reverse-transcriptase inhibitor (NRTI) have been approved by FDA.
Reverse transcriptase enzymes include an RNA-dependent DNA polymerase and a DNA-dependent DNA polymerase, which work together to perform transcription. In addition to the transcription function, retroviral reverse transcriptases have a domain belonging to the RNase H family which is vital to their replication. Telomerase is another reverse transcriptase found in many eukaryotes, including humans, which carries its own RNA template; this RNA is used as a template for DNA
Reverse transcriptase (RT) has several enzymatic activities, including an RNA-dependent DNA polymerase, DNA-dependent DNA polymerase, RNase H (a ribonuclease that degrades RNA in RNA-DNA hybrid structure), and the ability to unwind DNA-DNA and RNA-DNA duplexes. Reverse Transcriptase. Reverse transcriptase catalyzes the formation of double-stranded deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) from a single-stranded ribonucleic acid (RNA) genome.
A Reverse transcriptase (RT) is an enzyme used to generate complementary DNA (cDNA) from an RNA template, a process termed reverse transcription. It is mainly associated with retroviruses. Telomerase is another reverse transcriptase found in many eukaryotes, including humans, which carries its own RNA template; this RNA is used as a template for DNA replication.
Each of these activities is required during the process of reverse transcription to convert the single-stranded RNA genome into a double DNA copy, which in turn becomes integrated into the host chromosome of the infected cell catalyzed by a second pol gene-encoded enzyme, called integrase. Reverse Transcriptase. Reverse transcriptase catalyzes the formation of double-stranded deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) from a single-stranded ribonucleic acid (RNA) genome.
Retrovirus. Retroviruses are enveloped viruses that belong to the viral family Retroviridae. A retrovirus is an RNA virus that is duplicated in a host cell using the reverse transcriptase enzyme to produce DNA from its RNA genome. On infection, the single-stranded RNA viral genome and the enzyme enters the host cell. The viral genome is released into the host cell, from which a copy of DNA is made by the help of the enzyme reverse transcriptase. The cDNA is integrated into the host chromosome. The virus remains unexpressed until the host's immune system is stimulated.
Inhibitors are drugs that work by forming an enzyme-inhibitor complex, which impedes the ability of the enzyme-substrate complex to form. The most successful treatments for HIV have resulted from using inhibitors for the two enzymes reverse transcriptase (step 3 above) and protease (step 7 above). This class of drug acts by inhibiting protease, the enzyme required by HIV to cut its protein into the proper segments to assemble new viral particles. Protease inhibitors, used in combination with two reverse transcriptase inhibitors, have proven to be quite successful.
Without the reverse transcriptase enzyme, the virus HIV cannot make DNA copies of its genetic material (i.e. , the RNA), because the activation energy for the uncatalyzed reaction is too large. The DNA copy is essential for the virus to take over the infected cell's machinery and produce new copies of itself. This class of drug acts by inhibiting protease, the enzyme required by HIV to cut its protein into the proper segments to assemble new viral particles. Protease inhibitors, used in combination with two reverse transcriptase inhibitors, have proven to be quite successful.