For example, the tricep is the antagonist during a bicep curl, but the roles of the muscles are reversed when performing a tricep pressdown. Here the tricep is the agonist as it shortens with the concentric contraction and the bicep becomes the antagonist, lengthening to allow the tricep to shorten. Role of the Antagonist. The primary role of the antagonist is to move in contrast to the agonist. As the agonist shortens the antagonist lengthens and vice versa. When performing a bicep curl, the bicep is the agonist in the contraction and the tricep is the antagonist. As the elbow flexes, the bicep shortens as it flexes and the tricep simultaneously lengthens to allow the b
It is controlled by two muscles, the biceps on the front of the upper arm, and the triceps on the back of the upper arm. The biceps and the triceps are antagonistic muscles. when the biceps muscle contracts, the forearm moves up. when the triceps muscle contracts, the forearm moves down. This solves the problem. To lift the forearm, the biceps contracts and the triceps relaxes
Antagonist and agonist muscles often occur in pairs, called antagonistic pairs. As one muscle contracts, the other relaxes. An example of an antagonisic pair is the biceps and triceps; to contract-the triceps relaxes while the biceps contracts to lift the arm. Because a flexor muscle is always a flexor, in flexion it is the agonist, and in extension it is the antagonist. Conversely, an extensor muscle is the agonist in extension and the antagonist in flexion.
Noun. 1. antagonistic muscle - (physiology) a muscle that opposes the action of another; the biceps and triceps are antagonistic muscles. muscle, musculus-one of the contractile organs of the body. agonist-a muscle that contracts while another relaxes; when bending the elbow the biceps are the agonist. antagonist-a muscle that relaxes while another contracts; when bending the elbow the triceps are the antagonist. physiology-the branch of the biological sciences dealing with the functioning of organisms.
There are many groups of antagonistic muscles in the body. The most famous of these pairings is the biceps and the triceps on the arm. Additional sets include muscles in the chest and back of the torso, as well as the quadriceps and hamstrings of the leg. These muscles are necessary for the body to function properly. Antagonistic muscles are muscles that work in opposition to each other. For example, a person uses certain sets of muscles to open his hand and splay his fingers wide.
antagonistic muscle - (physiology) a muscle that opposes the action of another; the biceps and triceps are antagonistic muscles. muscle, musculus-one of the contractile organs of the body. agonist-a muscle that contracts while another relaxes; when bending the elbow the biceps are the agonist. 
(physiology) a muscle that opposes the action of another. Classified under: Nouns denoting body parts. Context example: the biceps and triceps are antagonistic muscles. Hypernyms (antagonistic muscle is a kind of...): muscle; musculus (one of the contractile organs of the body). 
Antagonist. An antagonist is a muscle that is capable of opposing the movement of a joint by producing torque that is opposite to a certain joint action. This is usually a muscle that is located on the opposite side of the joint from the agonist. Reciprocal inhibition is a neural inhibition of the motor units of the antagonist muscle. When the agonist muscle contracts, this causes the antagonist muscle to stretch. Normally, this stretching would be followed by a stretch reflex which would make the muscle being stretched contract against the change in length.
Antagonistic pairs of muscles are muscle where one move the bone in one direction and the other moves it back the other way in transmission of nerve impulses to the muscles. That means that it is impossible to fully stimulate the contraction of two antagonistic muscles at the same time. 1 Biceps and triceps are antagonistic pairs. 2  The biceps muscle works across three joints and the most important of these functions is to flex the elbow, while the triceps muscle is the muscle principally responsible for extension of the elbow joint.