In mathematics, a backslash-like symbol is used for the set difference. In some dialects of the BASIC programming language, the backslash is used as an operator symbol to indicate integer division. In MATLAB and GNU Octave the backslash is used for left matrix divide, while the slash is for right matrix divide. In PHP version 5.3 and higher, the backslash is used to indicate a namespace. In USFM, the backslash is used to mark format features for editing Bible translations.
Forward Slash: /. A good way to remember the difference between a backslash and a forward slash is that a backslash leans backwards (\), while a forward slash leans forward (/). In Windows, backslashes are used to separate directories in file paths (ex: C:\Program Files\Common Files\microsoft shared\). People often refer to forward slashes as backslashes, especially when referring to URLs. Web addresses (URLs), such as http://pc.net/helpcenter/ , contain forward slashes, rather than backslashes. The difference between a backslash and a forward slash is defined below:
The slash (/), also known as a stroke and by the technical term solidus, is a sign used as a punctuation mark and for various other purposes. It is often called a forward slash, a retronym used to distinguish it from the backslash (\). It has many other names. The slash is also used to indicate a line break when quoting multiple lines from a poem, play, or headline; or in an ordinary prose quotation, the start of a new paragraph. In this case, a space is placed before and after the slash.
March 7, 2013 by: Dictionary.com 149 Comments. The slash (/)—sometimes called a slant, a solidus, a stroke, or a virgule —is a commonly employed symbol in the English language. Whatever you want to call this piece of punctuation, its role in English has greatly changed over time. An interesting aspect of this popular symbol is its ability to be verbalized in various ways depending on the context. You can be in a “love/hate” relationship (slash not pronounced), or you can “love-slash-hate” someone (slash pronounced).
Alternatively referred to as a solidus, virgule, or whack, the forward slash is the name of the / character on the computer keyboard. Forward slashes most commonly used to describe a network address, URL's, and other addresses. For example, in the below Computer Hope URL the forward slash is used three times. 1 With HTML, XML, and other markup languages the forward slash is used with closing tags. 2  In MS-DOS, the forward slash is used to perform a command option. 3  With regular expressions, a forward slash is used as a delimiter or separator. 4  In Linux, ./ execute a compiled program. 5  With chat, the forward slash starts a command.
A forward slash may also be used for any of the below reasons. 1  A math symbol for divide. 2  With dates, the forward slash separates the month, date, and year. 3  A file and directory separator in a Linux or network file path. 4  With HTML, XML, and other markup languages the forward slash is used with closing tags. 1 With HTML, XML, and other markup languages the forward slash is used with closing tags. 2  In MS-DOS, the forward slash is used to perform a command option. 3  With regular expressions, a forward slash is used as a delimiter or separator. 4  In Linux, ./ execute a compiled program. 5  With chat, the forward slash starts a command.
That is why symbols like the forward slash and backslash, which were sparsely used before, found employment. Forward Slash Vs Backslash: A Comparison. The forward slash known simply as a 'slash' is a punctuation mark, denoted by the symbol - '/', while the backslash is denoted by the symbol '\'. Let us see the history of usage of these two symbols
Ampersand. The ampersand is the sign &, used to mean ‘and’. The shape of the symbol originated as a ligature for the Latin et (‘and’) – that is, it represents the merged ‘e’ and ‘t’. The name ampersand also represents a merge, although one that is perhaps more accidental. 
The slash (/), also known as the virgule, has several uses, most of which should be avoided in formal writing. In place of the Latin preposition cum. The Latin preposition cum means “combined with,” “also used as,” or “along with being.” The slash is sometimes used to convey the same meaning. He worked in his office-cum-dining room. He worked in his office/