This office strictly handles payments to be made in Marion County. Effective 10/1/99, there was a change in Florida's Child Support Enforcement law as a result of both Federal and State mandates for the receipt and disbursement of support payments. All child support and alimony payments for Marion County, Florida are to be sent to the Florida Central Disbursement Unit (CDU).
Child Support Information. The Child Support Enforcement division, in cooperation with the State of Florida Disbursement Unit (SDU), acts as the central depository for receiving, recording, reporting, monitoring and disbursing alimony and child support payments, in accordance with Florida Statutes, Section 61.181. Procedures for making payments to FLSDU. All child support and alimony payments for Brevard County, Florida are to be sent to the State of Florida Disbursement Unit (SDU). The SDU will receive your payment and post it to the appropriate account.
Child Support. Effective March 5, 2001, all child support payments should be sent directly to the State of Florida Disbursement Unit, FLSDU, in Tallahassee. This change is part of a new process required by federal and state law to help improve child support collections. For IV-D cases that are enforced through the Department of Revenue, the payee is directed to contact his/her caseworker for enforcement assistance. The toll-free number for Department of Revenue, Child Support Enforcement, is 1-800-622-5437.
Individual case information is available by calling the State of Florida Child Support Disbursement Unit at 1-877-769-0251, 8:00 AM-6:00 PM, Monday-Friday. Call 1-877-769-0251 to access individual case and payment information through an automated voice response system. Please have your case number ready. 
If you require assistance in collecting court-ordered child support you can contact the State of Florida's Department of Revenue. The Department of Revenue is the Child Support Enforcement agency for the State of Florida. The phone numbers are listed in the contact information above. They can provide assistance in collecting court ordered child support in those situations involving public assistance programs as well as those that do not.
Also contact the Department of Revenue Child Support Enforcement at 1-800-622-5437 of your change of address if your case is handled through that state agency. To contact the Child Support Enforcement in Tallahassee, Florida; please call toll free (800) 622-5437. Procedures for making payments to FLSDU. All child support and alimony payments for Brevard County, Florida are to be sent to the State of Florida Disbursement Unit (SDU). The SDU will receive your payment and post it to the appropriate account.
Payment information is updated daily. (Case number and Social Security number are required). 1  Child support offices are open from 8:00 AM - 5:00 PM, Monday – Friday, local time. 2  The Manatee Clerk of Court Child Support office is open from 8:30 AM to 4:30 PM, local time.
State Disbursement Unit. Many court ordered payments for child support must be made to the State Disbursement Unit in Tallahassee. The State Disbursement Unit was created by 1998 Florida Statute 61.1824 with the intent of providing a centralized payment processing system. The Department of Revenue is the Child Support Enforcement agency for the State of Florida. The phone numbers are listed in the contact information above. They can provide assistance in collecting court ordered child support in those situations involving public assistance programs as well as those that do not.
The Florida Department of Revenue is the state agency that houses the Child Support Enforcement Program. The Department provides information about child support issues on its website at: http://dor.myflorida.com/dor/childsupport/ The website also provides a complete list of addresses and phone numbers to contact. Department of Revenue. Mail Stop 1-1614A5050. 