1 Roast the duck uncovered on a rack in a shallow roasting pan, breast-side up, or roast on a vertical poultry roaster in a pan. 2  For an un-marinated whole duck, allow 30 minutes per pound in a preheated 350° F oven. 1 For an un-marinated whole duck, allow 30 minutes per pound in a preheated 350° F oven. 2  For a marinated duck, allow 22 minutes per pound at 375° F. or until internal temperature at the leg joint reaches 175° F. 3  A vertical roaster is a perfect way to roast a whole duck. 4  Even the beer can roasters work well with duck.
Roast duck, breast side up, 45 minutes, then remove from oven. Turn duck over using 2 wooden spoons, and roast 45 minutes more. Turn duck over again (breast side up), tilting duck to drain any liquid from cavity into pan. Continue to roast duck until skin is brown and crisp, about 45 minutes more (total roasting time: about 2 1/4 hours). Tilt duck to drain any more liquid from cavity into pan. Transfer duck to a cutting board and let stand 15 minutes before carving
Place duck skin side up in a roasting tin and add 1 tbsp of the fat into the tin. Mix 1/2 tbsp honey with the same amount of water and brush on the duck skin. Place in oven to cook, around 25 - 35 minutes depending on how well you like the meat. 
Place the onion inside the duck. Truss the bird and prick the skin. Dry thoroughly. Place the duck breast-side up in a roasting pan and place in the center rack of a 425 degree preheated oven for 15 minutes to brown lightly. Reduce the oven temperature to 350 degrees and roast for 1 additional hour to 1 hour and 25 minutes. Remove accumulated fat occasionally with a bulb baster. 
Place the duck breast-side up in a roasting pan and place in the center rack of a 425 degree preheated oven for 15 minutes to brown lightly. Reduce the oven temperature to 350 degrees and roast for 1 additional hour to 1 hour and 25 minutes. For an un-marinated whole duck, allow 30 minutes per pound in a preheated 350° F oven. For a marinated duck, allow 22 minutes per pound at 375° F. or until internal temperature at the leg joint reaches 180° F. A vertical roaster is a perfect way to roast a whole duck.
Position the duck on a rack placed in a roasting tray, breast side up. Pour a few cups of boiling water over the duck and into the roasting tray and place into the preheated oven. Roast the duck for up to 3 hours or until no fat remains and the skin is crispy and brown, turning the duck over after every 30 minutes. Duck is generally roasted for several hours in the oven, which may seem a long time compared to roasting a chicken or turkey. This is so that the fat has time to melt away completely and for the skin to crisp.
Continue cooking the duck for another 30 minutes to an hour, until the skin is deep brown and crisp. Flip it over again in the last 10 minutes to crisp the breast side. Use a meat thermometer to check for done-ness before removing from the grill. Baste the duck with its own juices from the bottom of the pan and flip the duck every 30 minutes as it continues to roast. An average 4- to 6-pound duck needs roughly 22 minutes per pound to fully cook. Use a meat thermometer inserted into the thickest part of each thigh to check for done-ness.
There are many ways to roast duck: Roast the duck uncovered on a rack in a shallow roasting pan, breast-side up, or roast on a vertical poultry roaster in a pan. For an un-marinated whole duck, allow 30 minutes per pound in a preheated 350° F oven. For a marinated duck, allow 22 minutes per pound at 375° F. or until internal temperature at the leg joint reaches 180° F. A vertical roaster is a perfect way to roast a whole duck. Even the beer can roasters work well with duck
Roast the duck for about 3 hours, turning the duck every 30 minutes. 9. Remove the roasting pan from the oven and test to make sure the duck is finished cooking. 1  Insert a cooking thermometer into the thickest portion of the duck meat, either the breast or thigh. 2  Be sure the thermometer is not touching any bones. Lay the duck breasts in the pan with the skin sides down. Cook for 3 to 5 minutes, depending on the size of the breasts. 5. Turn the breasts to the other side with a pair of tongs.