Renaissance Philosophy. The Renaissance, that is, the period that extends roughly from the middle of the fourteenth century to the beginning of the seventeen century, was a time of intense, all-encompassing, and, in many ways, distinctive philosophical activity.
The Medical Renaissance, from 1400 to 1700 CE, is the period of progress in European medical knowledge, and a renewed interest in the ancient ideas of the Greeks and Romans. Contents. He was a military surgeon during the French campaigns in Italy of 1533–36. It was here that, having run out of boiling oil (which was the accepted way of treating firearm wounds), Pare paré turned to an Ancient roman: remedy, turpentine egg yolk and oil of. roses
The Renaissance is a term that was coined in the 19th century to describe a period in which art and literature flourished in Europe, but there were so many significant changes during this time period that the term Renaissance began to mean all the developments during this time period. 
Renaissance medicine is the term used for the development of medicine at the time of the Renaissance in Europe. Scientists began to study the body and treat its diseases. One scientist said that the body is mostly chemicals, so it should be healed by chemicals. Other scientists studied anatomy. In the renaissance, a very important theory in medicine was the Four humours or Four temperaments. This theory began with the Ancient Greeks, and influenced medical development until the 19th century.
Medieval European medicine became more developed during the Renaissance of the 12th century, when many medical texts both on Ancient Greek medicine and on Islamic medicine were translated from Arabic during the 13th century. 
He was considered the greatest humanist of the north and helped to spread humanism and the Renaissance movement to northern Europe. He is also famous for his book Praise of Folly. Paracelsus (1493 - 1541) - Paracelsus was a Swiss scientist and botanist who helped to make many advances in medicine. 
Progress made during the Medical Renaissance depended on several factors. Printed books based on movable type, adopted in Europe from the middle of the 15th century, allowed the diffusion of medical ideas and anatomical diagrams. He was a military surgeon during the French campaigns in Italy of 1533–36. It was here that, having run out of boiling oil (which was the accepted way of treating firearm wounds), Pare paré turned to an Ancient roman: remedy, turpentine egg yolk and oil of. roses
Save. wjarek/iStock/Getty Images. The Renaissance is a term historians give to a period of time between 1300 and 1600 in Italy, England, France and Northern Europe that witnessed the emergence of capitalism and a shift away from ideas and lifestyles of the Middle Ages. 