A change in the genes or chromosomes of an organism. Mutations occurring in the reproductive cells, such as an egg or sperm, can be passed from one generation to the next. Most mutations have harmful effects, but some can increase an organism's ability to survive. 2. Change in a gene or genes of a living cell. A mutation in some way changes the cell’s characteristics and will be inherited. See chromosome, genes.
Acquired (or somatic) mutations occur at some time during a person’s life and are present only in certain cells, not in every cell in the body. These changes can be caused by environmental factors such as ultraviolet radiation from the sun, or can occur if a mistake is made as DNA copies itself during cell division. Acquired mutations in somatic cells (cells other than sperm and egg cells) cannot be passed on to the next generation. In some cases, the mutation occurs in a person’s egg or sperm cell but is not present in any of the person’s other cells. In other cases, the mutation occurs in the fertilized egg shortly after the egg and sperm cells unite.
The word mutation means a change in the genetic composition of a cell. Mutations can be divided into two main groups. The first group is gene mutations. These are chemical changes in the DNA [DNA: The material inside the nucleus of cells, carrying genetic information. DNA stands for Deoxyribonucleic Acid.] of the cell. A gene mutation is a change in the order of bases on a strand of DNA. Original gene structure. This shows the normal order of the bases for one of the strands in the area highlighted in the DNA molecule. Only one of the strands of DNA is involved in protein synthesis. A change from the normal order of bases leads to different types of gene mutation. 1  Back. 2  1. 3  2. 4  3. 5  4. 6  5
Intensity means the amount of radiation in an area. Exposure means the length of time that the radiation that is present. Low intensity radiation can cause small changes to the DNA which may alter the cell without killing it. A change in the DNA of a cell is called a mutation. Some mutations are harmless and make no difference to the organism, some may be beneficial (good), and some may be harmful. 
Mutations are the changes in the DNA sequence. Or in other words, changes in parts of genes in chromosomes. The base sequences are messed up! Sometimes as little as one base might be missing or it could be a few. On other occasions a couple of bases might be swapped around. It is also possible that during meiosis parts of chromosomes get damaged. If the genetic instructions are wrong what it does will also be wrong.
Figure Detail. As mentioned, sickle-cell anemia is the result of a change in a single nucleotide, and it represents just one class of mutations called point mutations. Changes in the DNA sequence can also occur at the level of the chromosome, in which large segments of chromosomes are altered. In other cases, mutations alter the way a gene is read through either the insertion or the deletion of a single base. In these so-called frameshift mutations, entire proteins are altered as a result of the deletion or insertion.
Mutations. Changes to genes are called mutations mutation: An error in DNA replication which results in a change in an organism's genetic blueprint. Some mutations are random, others are caused by environmental factors. Mutations can be spontaneous (they just happen). They can also happen because of: 1  Radiation. Different types of cells produce different ranges of proteins. This affects the functions they can carry out. For example, only pancreas cells switch on the gene for making the hormone insulin. Mutations to genes can alter the production of certain proteins, or even prevent them being made by a cell.
A gene mutation is a permanent alteration in the DNA sequence that makes up a gene, such that the sequence differs from what is found in most people. Mutations range in size; they can affect anywhere from a single DNA building block (base pair) to a large segment of a chromosome that includes multiple genes. In some cases, the mutation occurs in a person’s egg or sperm cell but is not present in any of the person’s other cells. In other cases, the mutation occurs in the fertilized egg shortly after the egg and sperm cells unite.