Q. How long can you keep live lobsters in a refrigerator? How long will they stay alive? A. Live lobsters can be kept for approximately 12 hours under refrigerated conditions although most will survive for at least 24 hours. Live lobsters cannot be stored in fresh water or enclosed in plastic bags. The ice puts them in hibernation. I've carried lobsters from Maine in an ice chest with dry ice to New Orleans on a 6 hour plane flight plus another 12 hours to deliver to my coworkers. So at least 1 day, easily.
Live lobsters need to be kept alive and fresh until they’re cooked to prevent deterioration. You can store them briefly in the fridge or in a lobster tank. Storing Lobster in a Fridge: Ideally, live lobsters should be cooked the same day they’re delivered. However, they can be kept for one additional day when stored properly. In a fridge, keep lobsters as cold as possible in an open container such as a cardboard box. Pack them with seaweed or damp newspaper to keep them moist but not wet. Never store them on ice or in tap water, as the fresh water will kill them.
Storing Lobster in a Fridge : Ideally, live lobsters should be cooked the same day they’re delivered. However, they can be kept for one additional day when stored properly. In a fridge, keep lobsters as cold as possible in an open container such as a cardboard box. Pack them with seaweed or damp newspaper to keep them moist but not wet. Never store them on ice or in tap water, as the fresh water will kill them. ***NOTE: GML recommends that live lobsters be prepared on the day of arrival
Fresh live lobsters can stay in your refrigerator one to two days. Keep them in the back, where the refrigerator is coldest. They must be kept alive until you cook them. Do not store live lobsters in any kind of water—it will kill them. Place the lobsters in a large bowl, cardboard box or roasting pan covered with damp cloth or packed with damp newspaper
A. Live lobsters can be kept for approximately 12 hours under refrigerated conditions although most will survive for at least 24 hours. Q. How long can you keep cooked lobster in the refrigerator? A. A cooked lobster can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 3 days. 
). Don't store them in a closed container. And whatever you do, don't put them in fresh water  they'll expire very quickly. If the lobsters are quite lively when you buy them, you should be able to keep them alive in the refrigerator for as long as 48 hours.
If you keep the uncooked lobster in the fridge with a gel cold pack  in the container, the lobster can be kept for about two days. If  the lobster is not alive when you take … it out, do not cook it,  throw it away. This food will keep for about 1 to 2 days in the refrigerator. Place the food in an air tight container for the best results. This food can easily be transferred to the freeze … r for longer storage time.
Live lobster should be cooked the same day it is bought. Keep lobsters cool, covered and moist in the refrigerator until ready to cook. Never put lobsters into fresh water or salt water to attempt to keep them alive; fresh water will kill them, as will salt water made with tap water that has been chlorinated. Par-boil your lobsters in a large pot of boiling water for 5 minutes. Remove the lobsters and plunge into a large bowl of cold water to stop the cooking. Drain the lobsters and store in a refrigerator if you do not plan to grill them right away. Place a lobster on its back on a cutting board.