The difference between a predator and a parasite is that for a predator killing the prey is necessary for consuming it, but for parasites it is not even desirable becau … se a parasite lives on or in its host. 7 people found this useful. Hannah Layton. 588 Contributions. 
Tweet. Key difference: Predator hunts Prey. A predator is an animal who hunts other animals; while, a prey is that animal that is hunted by other animal. Both, of these animals are necessary for maintaining the ecological balance of the Earth. Predator. Prey. These are. Animals that hunt or attack other animals. Animals that are being hunted or attacked by other animals. In the prey-predator relationship, they are. These are dominant organism. These are submissive organism.
· Predator is the dominant organism, while prey is the submissive organism of prey-predator interaction. · Prey has always a larger population compared to predator. · Prey species are more often herbivorous, while predators are always carnivores, but can be omnivorous sometimes. · Predator completely depends on the prey for food. However, prey would not die in the absence of predators. · Predators control the population of prey, otherwise the prey species will get overpopulated, and the balance of the ecosystem will lose.
A predator is something that eats other animals.The prey is what gets eaten. In other words, the predator is the hunter and the prey is the hunted. A good example would be a cat and a mouse. The cat is the predator, and the mouse is the cat's prey. Good luck, I hope I helped! :] -A.J. A lizard eats an insect. The insect is the prey, the lizard is the predator. A snake eats the lizard, the lizard just became the prey, and the snake is the predator. A hawk eats the snake, the snake became the prey and the hawk is the predator. A rancher shoots the hawk, the hawk became the prey and the rancher is the predator. The price of beef drops, the rancher became the prey and the beef consumer became the predator
A predator is an organism that eats another organism. The prey is the organism which the predator eats. Some examples of predator and prey are lion and zebra, bear and fish, and fox and rabbit. 
Predators and parasites are two completely different ecological roles or niches. The differences are many between them, but in both predation and parasitism, one particular organism depends on another usually for food. Additionally, because of both parasitism and predation, the victim suffers. · Usually, predation involves animals while parasitism is common among all the organisms. · Predators are at the top levels of food chains, but parasites have not been included in food chains. Related posts: 1  Difference Between Predator and Prey.
Key difference: Predator hunts Prey. Predator and Prey basically refers to the hunting and attacking of an animal. Predators are the ones who hunt other animals; while preys are the ones who are hunted or attacked by other animals. In the ecology, these are co-related to each-other. Predator. Prey. These are. Animals that hunt or attack other animals. Animals that are being hunted or attacked by other animals. In the prey-predator relationship, they are. These are dominant organism. These are submissive organism.
A predator is an animal who hunts other animals; while, a prey is that animal that is hunted by other animal. Predator and Prey basically refers to the hunting and attacking of an animal. Predators are the ones who hunt other animals; while preys are the ones who are hunted or attacked by other animals. Predator. Prey. These are. Animals that hunt or attack other animals. Animals that are being hunted or attacked by other animals. In the prey-predator relationship, they are. These are dominant organism. These are submissive organism.
Prey. A prey could be any animal that is being preyed upon by the predator.usually, prey is the submissive organism of the predator-prey interaction. Most of the time prey is herbivorous, but omnivorous prey species are also there in the ecosystem. In food chain, prey species are closer to producers than predators. · Predator completely depends on the prey for food. However, prey would not die in the absence of predators. · Predators control the population of prey, otherwise the prey species will get overpopulated, and the balance of the ecosystem will lose.