Open Interest is the total number of outstanding contracts that are held by market participants at the end of each day. Where volume measures the pressure or intensity behind a price trend, open interest measures the flow of money into the futures market. Of these three, price is the most important. However, volume and open interest provide important secondary confirmation of the price action on a chart and often provide a lead indication of an impending change of trend.
Open Interest-A confirming indicator. An increase in open interest along with an increase in price is said to confirm an upward trend. Similarly, an increase in open interest along with a decrease in price confirms a downward trend. Benefits of monitoring open interest. By monitoring the changes in the open interest figures at the end of each trading day, some conclusions about the day s activity can be drawn. Increasing open interest means that new money is flowing into the marketplace.
What Open Interest Tells Us. A contract has both a buyer and a seller, so the two market players combine to make one contract. The open interest position that is reported each day represents the increase or decrease in the number of contracts for that day, and it is shown as a positive or negative number. An increase in open interest along with an increase in price is said to confirm an upward trend. 1. If prices are rising and open interest is increasing at a rate faster than its five-year seasonal average, this is a bullish sign. More participants are entering the market, involving additional buying, and any purchases are generally aggressive in nature. 2.
Open interest is the total number of options and/or futures contracts that are not closed or delivered on a particular day. Open interest is NOT the same thing as volume of options and futures trades. A contract has both a buyer and a seller, so the two market players combine to make one contract. The open-interest position that is reported each day represents the increase or decrease in the number of contracts for that day, and it is shown as a positive or negative number. An increase in open interest along with an increase in price is said to confirm an upward trend
An increase in open interest along with an increase in price is said to confirm an upward trend. Similarly, an increase in open interest along with a decrease in price confirms a downward trend. An increase or decrease in prices while open interest remains flat or declining may indicate a possible trend reversal.
Increasing open interest means that new money is flowing into the marketplace. The result will be that the present trend (up, down or sideways) will continue. Declining open interest means that the market is liquidating and implies that the prevailing price trend is coming to an end. Open interest measures the total level of activity into the futures market. Description: If both parties to the trade are initiating a new position (one new buyer and one new seller), open interest will increase by one contract.
Increasing open interest means that new money is flowing into the marketplace. The result will be that the present trend (up, down or sideways) will continue. Declining open interest means that the market is liquidating and implies that the prevailing price trend is coming to an end. Of these three, price is the most important. However, volume and open interest provide important secondary confirmation of the price action on a chart and often provide a lead indication of an impending change of trend.
Track the stock and index futures and options contracts with increase in open interest and increase in price. 
The open interest position that is reported each day represents the increase or decrease in the number of contracts for that day, and it is shown as a positive or negative number. How to calculate Open Interest. Benefits of monitoring open interest. By monitoring the changes in the open interest figures at the end of each trading day, some conclusions about the day s activity can be drawn. Increasing open interest means that new money is flowing into the marketplace.