Nearly half are still at Rano Raraku, the main moai quarry, but hundreds were transported from there and set on stone platforms called ahu around the island's perimeter. Almost all moai have overly large heads three-eighths the size of the whole statue. The tallest moai erected, called Paro, was almost 10 metres (33 ft) high and weighed 82 tons; the heaviest erected was a shorter but squatter moai at Ahu Tongariki, weighing 86 tons; and one unfinished sculpture, if completed, would have been approximately 21 metres (69 ft) tall with a weight of about 270 tons.
Often called mo'ai, these are gigantic stone monoliths located on Easter Island (Rapa Nui). Contrary to what we most often believe heads are rather busts, many statues have shoulders, chest, even arms and a single one even has legs. About 900 moai statues are located on Easter Island. Most of them are at the Rano Raraku quarry placed around the island, along the shores, like they were put there to guard. Plural for the word moai is also moai. Moais is incorrect. The heaviest moai is a shorter one located at Ahu Tongariki. It weighs 86 tons. Only 1 of all moai statues has legs. This is the famous small kneeling moai, called Tukuturi (see the image right on the left).
Introduction. Easter Island covers roughly 64 square miles in the South Pacific Ocean, and is located some 2,300 miles from Chile’s west coast and 2,500 miles east of Tahiti. A+E Networks. Easter Island covers roughly 64 square miles in the South Pacific Ocean, and is located some 2,300 miles from Chile’s west coast and 2,500 miles east of Tahiti.
Easter Island is one of the world's most isolated inhabited islands. It is 3,600 km to the west of Chile and 2,075 km east of Pitcairn. The total area of Easter Island is 163.6 Square kilometres or 63.1 square miles. Rapa Nui Islanders (from left to right), Face tatoos of Tepano 1890. Easter Island's Women and Man 1774
Rapa Nui and its moai. It's been called the most isolated spot on Earth. Located about 3,700 kilometres from the western edge of the South American continent and almost as far from Tahiti, Easter Island lies as solitary as an island can be in the South Pacific. Three of the hundreds of stone statues that dot Easter Island. A staggering total of 887 monolithic statues or moai, as they're called have been located around the island, ranging in size from one metre tall to over 10 metres in height.
Easter Island History. Rapa Nui, or Easter Island as it is known today, is a Polynesian island positioned in the Pacific Ocean, approximately 3,510 km (2,180 mi) west of continental Chile. 
By Amanda Briney. Easter Island, also called Rapa Nui, is a small island located in the southeastern Pacific Ocean that is considered a special territory of Chile. Easter Island is most famous for its large moai statues that were carved by native peoples between 1250 and 1500
Rapa Nui, also known as Easter Island (a name given to it by Europeans), is located in the southeast Pacific and is famous for its approximately 1,000 carvings of moai, human-faced statues. Their place of origin is a mystery and may have been the Marquesas Islands, located 2,300 miles (3,700 km) to the northwest of Rapa Nui.