A nautical mile measures distance and a knot measures speed. This image focuses on the legend from a NOAA Nautical Chart. A nautical mile is based on the circumference of the earth, and is equal to one minute of latitude. It is slightly more than a statute (land measured) mile (1 nautical mile =. ). Nautical miles are used for charting and navigating
By Rachelle Oblack. Definition: A knot is a unit of measurement for wind speed. In a station model diagram, the knot is generally the standard unit used to indicate wind speed. Mathematically, one knot is equal to approximately 1.1508 statute miles. Formula to convert knots to mph.
1 knot = 1 Nautical Mile per Hour. 1 knot is approximately 1.15 miles per hour, or exactly 1.852 kilometers per hour. The speed of boats and currents/tides/etc are mea … sured in knots, along with a few other things. 21 people found this useful. One knot would therefore be equivalent to 1.85166 kph. Today, we use a 28-second period which equates to 1.852 kph. The knot indicated speed was standardized to be equal to a nautical mile per hour, which matched the ship's speed with its position when not in a moving current.
Knot is a speed measurement unit. A knot (kn) is a non-SI (non-System International) measurement unit of speed. One knot is a speed of one nautical mile per hour with which to measure how many nautical miles traveled per one hour. OT? 1  1 knot = 1 nautical mile per hour. 2  TT? 1 knot = 51.4444444 centimeters per second. 
To do this problem easily, one must convert the speed in miles per hour that the train is moving to the speed in feet per hour. This is accomplished by multiplying by the number of feet in a mile. That is, Now, convert the feet per hour to knots by multiplying by the knots conversion factor (1 knot/ 6076 [feet/hr]). Knots Versus Miles per Hour. Knots is how the speed of aircraft and boats is measured. Both miles per hour and knots is a speed which is the number of units of distance that is covered for a certain amount of time. 1 knot = 1 nautical mile per hour = 6076 feet per hour. 1 mph =1 mile per hour = 5280 feet per hour
The knot (/nɒt/) is a unit of speed equal to one nautical mile (1.852 km) per hour, approximately 1.151 mph. The ISO Standard symbol for the knot is kn. The same symbol is preferred by the IEEE; kt is also common. The knot is a non-SI unit that is accepted for use with the SI. 
The faster the ship was sailing, more knots and a longer length of rope were played out. The number of knots in the rope that were counted in 30 seconds, then, was equal to the speed of the ship in nautical miles per hour. A knot, therefore, is not a nautical mile, it is a nautical mile per hour. Thus 1 knot was equivalent to 1 nautical mile per hour; 5 knots were equivalent to 5 nautical miles per hour; etc. The similar sound of knot and naut is entirely coincidental. 
A knot is one nautical mile per hour (1 knot =. ). The term knot dates from the 17th century, when sailors measured the speed of their ship by using a device called a common log.. This device was a coil of rope with uniformly spaced knots, attached to a piece of wood shaped like a slice of pie. A nautical mile is based on the circumference of the earth, and is equal to one minute of latitude. It is slightly more than a statute (land measured) mile (1 nautical mile =.