PCr is made when Adenosine Triphosphate (ATP) is sufficient, and gives its energy to ADP molecules when ATP is deficient. Muscles quickly exhaust the supply of PCr, however, so the body depends heavily upon the cellular respiration of glucose to synthesize (not regenerate) ATP. 3 people found this useful. Adenosine Diphosphate (ADP) and Phosphate (PO4) are brought together by Phosphocreatine (Also known as PCr or Creatine Phosphate) to regenerate ATP. Phosphocreatine contains h … igh energy phosphate bonds, much like ATP. PCr is not able to supply energy directly to a cel
The sugar glucose is the major food molecule in the cell, but it is too energetic to use directly in most chemical reactions. To be useful, glucose is broken down into an energy storing molecule (ATP) that can be used throughout the cell. 
Functions. Energy is released by hydrolysis of the third phosphate group. After this third phosphate group is released, the resulting ADP (adenosine diphosphate) can absorb energy and regain the group, thus regenerating an ATP molecule; this allows ATP to store energy like a rechargeable battery. 
The common free-energy currency is ATP, which is a molecule that easily dephosphorylates (loses a phosphate group) and releases a large amount of free energy. In the body, the nonspontaneous reactions are coupled to this very spontaneous dephosphorylation reaction, thereby making the overall reaction spontaneous (D 2. These redox molecules are used in an oxidative-phosphorylation process to produce the majority of the ATP that the body uses. This oxidative-phosphorylation process consists of two steps: the oxidation of NADH (or FADH 2) and the phosphorylation reaction which regenerates ATP
First, only two ATP molecules are produced for each molecule of glucose used in the process. Glucose starts out with six carbons in its structure. In chemical energy, carbons are potential energy – in other words, potential ATP. In chemical terms, that is a waste of potential energy. 
This potential is then used to drive ATP synthaseand produce ATP from ADP and a phosphate group. Biology textbooks often state that 38 ATP molecules can bemade per oxidised glucose molecule during cellular respiration (2 from glycolysis, 2 from the Krebs cycle, and about34 from the electron transport system). 
The key fuel source in cell reactions is Adenosine Triphosphate, or ATP. The molecule is an amino acid linked to a ribose sugar, linked to a string of three phosphate groups (there are also ADP, Adenosine Diphosphate, and AMP, Adenosine Monophosphate). With ATP, the breaking off of the last phosphate, often in a transfer to another molecule (a process called phosphorylation), can release or activate a fair amount of usable energy. Having a phosphate group attached can destabilize a molecule or cause a critical change in an enzymes active site.
Conversion from ATP to ADP. Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) is the energy currency of life and it provides that energy for most biological processes by being converted to ADP (adenosine diphosphate). Since the basic reaction involves a water molecule, this reaction is commonly referred to as the hydrolysis of ATP. Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) is considered by biologists to be the energy currency of life. It is the high-energy molecule that stores the energy we need to do just about everything we do.
Free Energy from Hydrolysis of ATP. Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) is the energy currency of life and it provides that energy for most biological processes by being converted to ADP (adenosine diphosphate). Since the basic reaction involves a water molecule, this reaction is commonly referred to as the hydrolysis of ATP. Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) is considered by biologists to be the energy currency of life. It is the high-energy molecule that stores the energy we need to do just about everything we do.