Vegetables. Many green vegetables provide alpha-tocopherol. Spinach is especially rich in the vitamin, with 1 cup providing about 4 milligrams. Turnip greens, broccoli and asparagus also contain vitamin E, with a 1-cup serving of each providing about 2 milligrams. Alpha-tocopherol is an alternative name for vitamin E, which has many important functions in your body. A potent antioxidant, alpha-tocopherol protects you from potentially damaging free radicals, while also boosting your immune system to help you fight off viruses and pathogenic bacteria.
Flint River Ranch uses tocopherols, a natural antioxidant and Vitamin E source, and human-quality ingredients to slow the oxidation process of fats and oils to ensure its premium pet food products remain fresh as in their initial state. Vitamin E is an antioxidant that retards the oxidation of other vitamins. 
Vitamin E is widely used as an inexpensive antioxidant in cosmetics and foods. Vitamin E containing products are commonly used in the belief that vitamin E is good for the skin; many cosmetics include it, often labeled as tocopherol acetate, tocopheryl linoleate or tocopheryl nicotinate. Alpha-tocopherol is the form of vitamin E that is preferentially absorbed and accumulated in humans. The measurement of vitamin E activity in international units (IU) was based on fertility enhancement by the prevention of miscarriages in pregnant rats relative to alpha-tocopherol.
Tocopherol is a naturally occurring chemical element found in a variety of foods. It is commonly called vitamin E in a generic sense, as vitamin E substances are made up of tocopherol and similar elements. The most common form of this element is called alpha-tocopherol. Tocopherol in the form of vitamin E is a regular part of the average diet, with specific recommended dosages available to the public from U.S. science institutions in the form of recommended daily allowance or RDA. Foods that include vitamin E will usually have the RDA printed on the nutritional label.
Sources of Vitamin E. Food. Numerous foods provide vitamin E. Nuts, seeds, and vegetable oils are among the best sources of alpha-tocopherol, and significant amounts are available in green leafy vegetables and fortified cereals (see Table 2 for a more detailed list) [ 7 ]. At present, the vitamin E content of foods and dietary supplements is listed on labels in international units (IUs), a measure of biological activity rather than quantity. Naturally sourced vitamin E is called d-alpha-tocopherol; the synthetically produced form is dl-alpha-tocopherol.
The proportion of vitamin E to other tocopherols in a nutrient source varies greatly. For example, the tocopherol content is 96% vitamin E in almonds and 9% vitamin E in poppy seeds. Alpha-tocopherol is the form of vitamin E that is preferentially absorbed and accumulated in humans. The measurement of vitamin E activity in international units (IU) was based on fertility enhancement by the prevention of miscarriages in pregnant rats relative to alpha-tocopherol.
An assessment of the safety of tocopherols as food additives. Tomassi G, Silano V. This paper is a critical review of data relevant to the safety of tocopherols as food additives. Tocopherols are considered from the standpoint of their chemical-physical properties, occurrence in nature and use in commercial products.
Food sources. Major sources of α-tocopherol in the American diet include vegetable oils (olive, sunflower, and safflower oils), nuts, whole grains, and green leafy vegetables (Table 2). All eight forms of vitamin E (α-, β-, γ-, and δ-tocopherols and tocotrienols) occur naturally in foods but in varying amounts. For more information on the nutrient content of foods, search the USDA food composition database. Often vitamin E-fortified foods contain synthetic α-tocopherol, and the amounts are given as a percentage of the daily value of 30 IU. Throughout this article, amounts of α-tocopherol are expressed in both international units (IU) and milligrams (mg).
Other nuts, including hazelnuts, pine nuts, peanuts, Brazil nuts and pistachios are also good sources, with between 0.5 and 2 milligrams in a 1-ounce serving. Sunflower seeds are high in alpha-tocopherol as well, providing over 8 milligrams in 1/4 cup. Sprouted seeds provide small amounts of the vitamin, too. Alpha-tocopherol is an alternative name for vitamin E, which has many important functions in your body. A potent antioxidant, alpha-tocopherol protects you from potentially damaging free radicals, while also boosting your immune system to help you fight off viruses and pathogenic bacteria.