Maneki Neko Color Meanings: 1  Black: A Maneki Neko that is mainly or entirely black means “Good luck”. 2  Gold: A gold “lucky cat” means good fortune, which is generally associated with money. 3  Red: In ancient Japan, there are many references that people back then strongly believed the color red to be associated with health. 
Some of the sculptures are electric or battery-powered and have a slow-moving paw beckoning. The maneki-neko is sometimes also called the welcoming cat, lucky cat, money cat, happy cat, beckoning cat, or fortune cat in English. Maneki-neko come in different colors, styles and degrees of ornateness.
Maneki Neko, the beckoning cat of Japan, which brings good luck and fortune is a perfect example of this.Maneki Neko is a white, tricolor or tortishelle cat statue or figurine with its paw raised often found in Japanese businesses and homes. 
1. Fortune Cat is known as Maneki Neko in Japanese, which means “beckoning cat.” The cat has its paw raised as if it’s waving in good fortune for its owners. Other common monikers include Lucky Cat, Money Cat, and Welcoming Cat. 5. Maneki Neko is a finely dressed cat usually adorned with a bib, collar, and bell. In the Edo period, it was common for wealthy people to dress their pet cats this way; a bell was tied to the collar so that owners could keep track of their cats’ whereabouts.
The Aliases. Fortune Cat is known as Maneki Neko in Japanese, which means “beckoning cat.” The cat has its paw raised as if it’s waving in good fortune for its owners. Other common monikers include Lucky Cat, Money Cat, and Welcoming Cat. 5. Maneki Neko is a finely dressed cat usually adorned with a bib, collar, and bell. In the Edo period, it was common for wealthy people to dress their pet cats this way; a bell was tied to the collar so that owners could keep track of their cats’ whereabouts.
Maneki Neko figurines can be found with either the left paw, right paw, or with both raised. “The most common belief is that the left paw raised brings in customers, while a right paw brings wealth and good luck.” 9 In Japan, the majority of these cat figurines are holding their left paws up. It is interesting that different forms of Maneki Neko are used to express cultural differences. Its literal translation is “invitation cat”. Because the origins of this beckoning cat is mostly based upon folklore and legends and because of the many different variations, it is hard to pinpoint exactly where and what time period the legend of Maneki Neko emerged.
A Maneki-neko in Chinese style. The maneki-neko (Japanese: 招き猫, literally beckoning cat) is a common Japanese figurine (lucky charm, talisman) which is often believed to bring good luck to the owner. In modern times, they are usually made of ceramic or plastic. The maneki-neko is sometimes also called the welcoming cat, lucky cat, money cat, happy cat, beckoning cat, or fortune cat in English. Maneki-neko come in different colors, styles and degrees of ornateness.
The Maneki Neko is also known as the “lucky cat”, “welcoming cat” and “beckoning cat”. It is believed to be a symbol of good fortune. Maneki Neko are placed at the entrances of dwellings and businesses in Japan for this express purpose. The statue is always placed such that it faces the door to greet those who enter. 1 Left Paw Up: If the Maneki Neko’s left paw is up, it is inviting people in. 2  Right Paw Up: If the right paw is up, the lucky cat is beckoning and inviting good fortune and wealth in. 3  Both Paws Up: Two paws up on a Maneki Neko Lucky Cat is a symbol of protection for the home or business the statue is in