It's free! Contractor Connection is the largest, fully independent network of managed contractor repair for insurance companies and consumers. Our network has the best construction and building repair and remodeling contractors in the United States and Canada. Join LinkedIn to get the latest news, insights, and opportunities from over 3 million companies. Contractor Connection is the largest, fully independent network of managed contractor repair for insurance companies and consumers.
Welcome to Contractors Connection. Contractors Connection Inc. has been family owned and operated since 1991. We are located on the south side of Auburn Road, between Ryan and Dequindre, in Shelby Township, Michigan. 
Contractor Connection is the only national network of managed contractors vetted and overseen by a robust tracking system measuring time, costs, and customer satisfaction. For more information, please visit www.contractorconnection.com. Testimonials. To have a group like Contractor Connection that is credentialing and making sure contractors have the right insurance, the proper protection in place, and that they can do the work, is a real win for our customers. Tim Bowen, Director. Metlife Auto and Home
You can use Contractor Connection to help you find the contractor that's right for you. When the work is complete, you may be asked to fill out a brief satisfaction survey to help measure contractor performance. USAA has teamed up with Contractor Connection to put you in touch with prescreened contractors who back their work with a Three-Year Workmanship Warranty Three-Year Workmanship Warranty. Plus, Crawford will monitor their performance.
Contractor Connection. Crawford Contractor Connection SM, an industry leader in contractor managed repair services, provides Crawford clients with a fully managed building repair service designed to control the scope and cost of reinstatement. 1 Contractor Connection guarantees a significant reduction in average repair times. 2  Rigorous Performance Management: All contractors are vetted and performance managed, measuring quality, time in process and customer satisfaction.
Contractor Connection is a free, nationwide service that helps you: 1  Find a licensed contractor based on your needs and ZIP code. 2  Get a fair and reasonable estimate using a system common to the insurance industry. 3  Arrange an onsite inspection. 4  Oversee contractors for timeliness and work quality. USAA has teamed up with Contractor Connection to put you in touch with prescreened contractors who back their work with a Three-Year Workmanship Warranty Three-Year Workmanship Warranty. Plus, Crawford will monitor their performance.
Contractor Connection added 6 new photos. Yesterday at 8:55am ·. More than 80 Contractor Connection employees and their families volunteered their time today to beautify the grounds of the Children's Home Society of Florida in Jacksonville as part of our 2015 Global Day of Service. 