• NEUROLOGY (noun). The noun NEUROLOGY has 2 senses: 1. the branch of medical science that deals with the nervous system. 2. (neurology) the branch of medicine that deals with the nervous system and its disorders. Familiarity information: NEUROLOGY used as a noun is rare. Dictionary entry details. clinical neurology; neurology ((neurology) the branch of medicine that deals with the nervous system and its disorders). refractory period ((neurology) the time after a neuron fires or a muscle fiber contracts during which a stimulus will not evoke a response).
Neurology is a branch of medicine dealing with disorders of the nervous system. Medical professionals (such as Biomedical Doctors and Physicians) specializing in the field of … neurology are called neurologists and are trained to diagnose, treat, and manage patients with neurological disorders. Neuron meaning nerve   Logia meaning study of    So it is the branch of biology or medic … ine that deals with the  study of nerves.In this field a neurologist (specialist) studies  the function and structure of brain plus nervous disorders and  their treatments. 1 person found this useful.
A: Neurological disorders are diseases of the central and peripheral nervous system. In other words, the brain, spinal cord, cranial nerves, peripheral nerves, nerve roots, autonomic nervous system, neuromuscular junction, and muscles. 
For the journal, see Neurology (journal) . For the scientific study of the nervous system, see Neuroscience. Neurology (from Greek: νεῦρον, neuron, and the suffix -λογία -logia study of) is a branch of medicine dealing with disorders of the nervous system. Many neurologists also have additional training or interest in one area of neurology, such as stroke, epilepsy, neuromuscular, sleep medicine, pain management, or movement disorders.
Neurologists treat neurological conditions, or problems with the nervous system. Symptoms that commonly require a neurologist include: 1  coordination problems. 2  muscle weakness. 3  a decrease in sensation. A neurologist is a doctor who specializes in treating diseases of the nervous system. The nervous system comprises the central and peripheral nervous system. This complex system involves the spinal cord and the brai
Neurology: The medical specialty concerned with the diagnosis and treatment of disorders of the nervous system, which includes the brain, the spinal cord, and the nerves. 
Etymology: Gk, neuron + logos, science. the field of medicine that deals with the nervous system and its disorders. neurologic, neurological, adj. neurologist n. The medical subspecialty dedicated to the study and management of non-surgical diseases of the brain and nervous system. See Pediatric neurology. the branch of health science that deals with the nervous system, both normal and in disease. adj., adj neurolog´ic. clinical neurology that especially concerned with the diagnosis and treatment of disorders of the