Tidal range. Glossary. Tidal range is the vertical difference in height between consecutive high and low waters over a tidal cycle (Figure 1). The range of the tide varies between locations and also varies over a range of time scales. Differences in tidal range are important, as they are often related to variations in coastal processes and morphology.
When it’s at its lowest it is called Low Water. The difference in height between High and Low Water is known as the tidal range. The bigger the tidal range, the stronger the tide. The highest tidal range in the world occurs at the Bay of Fundy in Canada with over 53ft (16m) difference between High and Low Water. The Mediterranean-no tides and a great place to start sailing! You may come across the terms ‘tidal’ and ‘non-tidal’ with reference to RYA sailing certificates. Here’s some information about exactly what this means.
This type of tide is known as a spring tide. During neap tides, when the Moon and Sun's gravitational force vectors act in quadrature (making a right angle to the Earth 's orbit), the difference between high and low tides is smaller. The most extreme tidal range occurs around the time of the full or new moons, when the gravitational forces of both the Sun and Moon are in phase, reinforcing each other in the same direction (new moon), or are exactly the opposite phase (full).
The Mediterranean does have some tidal range, but it is slight compared with other places on earth. Because the Mediterranean is nearly landlocked, with the only major opening to open seas being the Strait of Gibraltar, the Mediterranean at large is not affected by the movement of large volumes of Pacific waters. The tidal range in mid-ocean is about 2 feet in some areas, which may seem strange at first.
(1995), charts for S2 and N2 display very similar features. Figure2 TIDAL CURRENTS IN THE WESTERN MEDITERRANEAN SEA and phases of the currents range between -6.10- 1 mis and 130° at depth (200-300 rn) and more than 1 m/s and 150° at the surface, which gives a mean phase of -140° (Lozano and Candela, 1995). 
Figure 1: Tidal range – vertical difference in height between consecutive high and low waters. Spatially, tidal range varies according to the hydrodynamic response of a particular ocean basin, shelf sea, bay or estuary to astronomical tidal forcing. The range of the tide varies between locations and also varies over a range of time scales. Differences in tidal range are important, as they are often related to variations in coastal processes and morphology.
Tidal range is the difference between the high tide and the low tide. The tidal range is the vertical difference between the high tide and the succeeding low tide. Tides are the rise and fall of sea levels caused by the combined effects of the gravitational forces exerted by the Moon and the Sun and the rotation of the Earth. The tidal range is not constant, but changes depending on where the sun and the moon are. The most extreme tidal range occurs around the time of the full or new moons, when the gravitational forces of both the Sun and Moon are in phase, reinforcing each other in the same direction (new moon), or are exactly the opposite phase (full).
When the sun and moon are in alignment roughly just after the full and new moon, then there is the greatest influence on the oceans. These are called ‘spring’ tides and subsequently have the greatest height range between high and low tide. When the sun and moon are in a right angled position to the earth then we have ‘neap’ tides which have the smallest range between high and low tide. There are two high and two low tides in a day and two spring and neap tides in a month. With such a small tidal range in the south of France it is easier to plan a passage, and also know that your anchorage will not suddenly disappear. However there are still hazards to consider, even a rock awash at low tide will be easily hidden just below the water and can cause a danger.
There is a 1m tide at Gibraltar, due to the Atlantic tide spilling into the Mediterranean at that point. There is also a 1m tide at Venice as the top end of the Adriatic and the largest tide in the Mediterranean is in the Gulf of Gabes, Eastern Tunisia, with a 1.5m tidal range. The Mediterranean-no tides and a great place to start sailing! You may come across the terms ‘tidal’ and ‘non-tidal’ with reference to RYA sailing certificates. Here’s some information about exactly what this means.