Symptoms of Blocked Salivary Glands. Because the salivary glands throughout the face and neck are responsible for both the production and delivery of saliva to the mouth and throat, salivary gland blockage is usually quite simple to identify. The most common symptom of a blocked salivary gland is, obviously, dry mouth. If saliva is not flowing through the gland ducts and into the mouth and throat, the mouth will begin to feel quite dry.
A salivary gland infection occurs when a bacterial or viral infection affects the salivary gland or duct. The infection can result from reduced saliva flow or the blockage or inflammation of a salivary duct. The condition is called sialadenitis. Your mouth is almost constantly flushed with saliva. 
Salivary Gland Stone Causes and Symptoms. Salivary stones form when chemicals in the saliva accumulate in the duct or gland. They mostly contain calcium. The exact cause is not known. But factors contributing to less saliva production and/or thickened saliva may be risk factors for salivary stones. Trauma to the salivary glands may also raise the risk for salivary stones. The stones cause no symptoms as they form, but if they reach a size that blocks the duct, saliva backs up into the gland, causing pain and swelling. You may feel the pain off and on, and it may get progressively worse.
Swelling happens in parotid glands on both sides of the face, giving the appearance of chipmunk cheeks.. Salivary gland swelling is commonly associated with mumps, happening in about 30% to 40% of mumps infections. It usually begins approximately 48 hours after the start of other symptoms such as fever and headache. The following are some of the more common salivary gland problems : Salivary stones, or sialoliths. The most common cause of swollen salivary glands, salivary stones are buildups of crystallized saliva deposits. Sometimes salivary stones can block the flow of saliva. When saliva can't exit through the ducts, it backs up into the gland, causing pain and swelling. Pain is usually off and on, is felt in one gland, and gets progressively worse. Unless the blockage is cleared, the gland is likely to become infected
A salivary gland stone -- also called salivary duct stone -- is a calcified structure that may form inside a salivary gland or duct. It can block the flow of saliva into the mouth. The majority of stones affect the submandibular glands located at the floor of the mouth. Trauma to the salivary glands may also raise the risk for salivary stones. The stones cause no symptoms as they form, but if they reach a size that blocks the duct, saliva backs up into the gland, causing pain and swelling. You may feel the pain off and on, and it may get progressively worse.
When there is a problem with the salivary glands or ducts you may experience symptoms such as salivary gland swelling, dry mouth, pain, fever, and foul-tasting drainage into the mouth. Many different problems can interfere with the function of the salivary glands or block the ducts so that they cannot drain saliva. Salivary stones (sialoliths) The most common causes of swollen salivary glands, salivary stones, are accumulations of crystallised saliva deposits. Sometimes salivary stones can block the flow of saliva. When saliva cannot exit through the ducts it backs up into the gland, causing pain and swelling.
Bacterial infection of the salivary gland, most commonly the parotid gland, may result when the duct into the mouth is blocked. Sialadenitis creates a painful lump in the gland, and foul-tasting pus drains into the mouth. The following are some of the more common salivary gland problems : Salivary stones, or sialoliths. The most common cause of swollen salivary glands, salivary stones are buildups of crystallized saliva deposits. Sometimes salivary stones can block the flow of saliva. When saliva can't exit through the ducts, it backs up into the gland, causing pain and swelling. Pain is usually off and on, is felt in one gland, and gets progressively worse. Unless the blockage is cleared, the gland is likely to become infected
Signs and symptoms of salivary gland cancer may include: 1  A lump or swelling on or near your jaw or in your neck or mouth. 2  Numbness in part of your face. 3  Muscle weakness on one side of your face. 4  Persistent pain in the area of a salivary gland. 5  Difficulty swallowing. 6  Trouble opening your mouth widely. 
Salivary Gland Stones Diagnosis and Treatments. If you have symptoms of a salivary gland stone, your doctor will first check for stones with a physical exam. Sometimes tests may also be ordered, such as X-ray, CT scan, or ultrasound. If a stone is detected, the goal of treatment is to remove it. Trauma to the salivary glands may also raise the risk for salivary stones. The stones cause no symptoms as they form, but if they reach a size that blocks the duct, saliva backs up into the gland, causing pain and swelling. You may feel the pain off and on, and it may get progressively worse.