represent-Dictionary definition and meaning for word represent. (verb) take the place of or be parallel or equivalent to. (verb) express indirectly by an image, form, or model; be a symbol. (verb) be representative or typical for. 
represent. verb. 1. act for, speak for, appear for, speak on behalf of, be the representative of the lawyers representing the victims. 2. stand for, substitute for, play the part of, assume the role of, serve as He will represent the president at ceremonies. 
White. White is associated with light, goodness, innocence, and purity. It is considered to be the color of perfection. White means safety, purity, and cleanliness. As opposed to black, white usually has a positive connotation. White can represent a successful beginning. In heraldry, white depicts faith and purity. In advertising, white is associated with coolness and cleanliness because it's the color of snow. 
[+] more examples [-] hide examples [+] Example sentences [-] Hide examples. b be represented — used to say that people from a particular place or group are present at an event, meeting, etc. The town was well represented at the meeting. 
3.1 [with object and adverbial or infinitive] Describe or portray in a particular way: the young were consistently represented as being in need of protection. More example sentences. Synonyms. 1  Hermetic poetry was a poetry that sought, not to describe or represent, but to evoke. 
A red octagon symbolizes stop even without the word. A symbol is an object or a concept that represents, stands for or suggests another idea, visual image, belief, action or material entity. Symbols take the form of words, sounds, gestures, ideas or visual images and are used to convey other ideas and beliefs. 
verb. Represent is defined as to express in words, symbolize or stand for. 1  An example of represent is a loyalty pledge. 2  An example of represent is for a communion wafer to stand for Christ's body. 
represent. 1  From inner-city urban Black culture.  2 You betta represent . or You gotta represent  means that one should be publicly candid about one's social stratum or geographical milieu of origin, however humble. 
Represent. To exhibit or expose; to appear in the character of. When an item is represented, it is produced publicly. To represent an individual means to stand in his or her place, acting as his or her substitute or attorney.
Examples of REPRESENT. 1  He represented his company at the meeting. 2  She hired an agent to represent her in the contract negotiations. 3  Senator Smith represents the state of Connecticut. 4  The company is represented by a local law firm. 5  She represented the United States in figure skating at the Olympics. 6  The court's decision represents a victory for ... 1 She hired an agent to represent her in the contract negotiations. 2  Senator Smith represents the state of Connecticut. 3  The company is represented by a local law firm. 4