1 Associate Degree: An associate degree in dental hygiene is the usual requirement for starting a career as a dental hygienist. 2  Dental hygiene associate degrees include courses in basic medical science, anatomy and physiology, dental materials, radiology, and clinical skills. 1 Bachelor’s Degree: Bachelor’s degrees in dental hygiene are also available and can be used to begin a career in dental hygiene. 2  Bachelor’s degrees are more in-depth than associate degree programs and cover more general education and clinical topics.
Dental hygienists typically need an associate’s degree in dental hygiene. Bachelor's degrees in dental hygiene are also available, but are less common. A bachelor's or master's degree is usually required for research, teaching, or clinical practice in public or school health programs. Every state requires dental hygienists to be licensed; requirements vary by state. In most states, a degree from an accredited dental hygiene program and passing grades on written and practical examinations are required for licensure.
Becoming a registered dental hygienist (RDH) allows you to work in one of the fastest growing careers in America. With the growth of preventative dental cleaning, the Bureau of Labor Statistics expects demand for RDHs to grow by 38 percent until 2020. Learn how to become a dental hygienist. 1 Apply to a 4-year university. 2  Some schools provide 4-year bachelor's degrees in dental hygiene. 3  You will be required to take the general liberal arts prerequisites, as well as science and clinical dental studies.
Education and Qualifications. To become a dental hygienist, you'll need either a 2- or 4-year degree in dental hygiene. Most programs are two years long and lead to an associate's degree. They are offered through community colleges and technical colleges. Your coursework will include classes such as the following: 1  Anatomy and Physiology. After earning licensure, dental hygienists may use RDH after their names to signify that they are a Registered Dental Hygienist. Check with the medical or health board in the state you choose to work in. Sources: U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics 2014-15 Occupational Outlook Handbook; Dental Hygienists.
Dental hygienists should consider completing an associate or bachelor’s degree program in dental hygiene or a closely related field from an accredited school. It’s important to make sure your school and its dental hygiene program is accredited by The Commission on Dental Accreditation. 
Education/Training & Admission Requirements. Dental hygienists receive their education through academic programs at community colleges, technical colleges, dental schools or universities. The majority of community college programs take at least two years to complete, with graduates receiving associate degrees. Receipt of this degree allows a hygienist to take licensure examinations (national and state or regional), become licensed and to work in a dental office. University-based dental hygiene programs may offer baccalaureate and master's degrees, which generally require at least two years of further schooling
You can be a dental hygienist with an associates degree. You can go further and get a bachelors or masters, but it's not necessary to practice. Because you already have a lot of college courses behind you it maybe easy to get the bachelors of science in dental hygiene-you just need to attend a school that offers it. http://www.bridgeport.edu/academics/fone... To be a dentist you need to have the requisite science classes, which you likely wouldn't have if your degree is a liberal arts (BA) degree. You need chemistry, biology etc.. Then you have to take the Dental Admission Test (DAT), then apply to dental schools.
While associate's degrees are enough for most dental hygienist positions, some hygienists earn higher degrees as a way to advance their careers. Bachelor's and master's degrees in dental hygiene may qualify hygienists for careers beyond the dental office, such as in teaching and research. Step 1: Get an Undergraduate Degree. Dental hygienists usually hold an associate's degree, such as an Associate of Applied Science, in dental hygiene. Two-year degree programs are available at community colleges, vocational institutes, or dental schools.
1 Apply to an applied sciences associate's degree program in dental hygiene. 2  These programs are usually run by community colleges. 3  They often take 2 years and include comprehensive classroom and clinical study. 4  This is the most common path to becoming a dental hygienist. 5  Apply to a 4-year university. 1 Apply to a 4-year university. 2  Some schools provide 4-year bachelor's degrees in dental hygiene. 3  You will be required to take the general liberal arts prerequisites, as well as science and clinical dental studies.