Melody /me-lo-dy/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced MEL-a-dee. It is of Greek origin, and the meaning of Melody is music, song. First used in the 13th century, though uncommon. Kreatif forms: Melodo, Melota, Menlody. 
Full Definition of MOLDY. 1. : of, resembling, or covered with mold. 2. a: being old and moldering: crumbling. — mold·i·ness noun. See moldy defined for English-language learners. See moldy defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 
LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. noun. The definition of a melody is a sequence of pleasing sounds that make up a particular musical phrase. An example of melody is the most memorable arrangement of sounds in a musical composition. pl. -·dies. 1  pleasing sounds or arrangement of sounds in sequence.
The meaning of name Melody, origin of name Melody, baby name Melody. Discover for free which first names would suit you or your baby ! Etymology: From the English word melody, which is derived (via Old French and Late Latin) from Greek (melos) song combined with (aeido) to sing. Meaning of name Melody. Etymology: From the English word melody, which is derived (via Old French and Late Latin) from Greek (melos) song combined with (aeido) to sing. Saint : Origin: English.
me·lod·ic. adj. Of, relating to, or containing melody. me·lod′i·cal·ly adv. 
melody. n, pl-dies. 1. (Music, other) music. a. a succession of notes forming a distinctive sequence; tune. b. the horizontally represented aspect of the structure of a piece of music. 1 grace note-An extra note for embellishment, not necessary for the harmony or melody. 2  absolute music, abstract music, pure music-Absolute music (abstract music, pure music) is music for its own sake—concerned only with structure, melody, harmony, and rhythm.
Definition of MELODY for Kids. 1. : pleasing arrangement of sounds. 2. : a series of musical notes or tones arranged in a definite pattern of pitch and rhythm. 3. : the main part in a musical composition. Full Definition of MELODY. 1. : a sweet or agreeable succession or arrangement of sounds: tunefulness. 2. : a rhythmic succession of single tones organized as an aesthetic whole. — me·lod·ic \mə-ˈlae-ˈlä\ dik. — adjective·me·lod·i·cal \-ly-di(k-)ə\ lē. adverb
melody. 1  grace note-An extra note for embellishment, not necessary for the harmony or melody. 2  absolute music, abstract music, pure music-Absolute music (abstract music, pure music) is music for its own sake—concerned only with structure, melody, harmony, and rhythm. 1
/ˈmɛlədi/. noun. plural melodies. Learner's definition of MELODY. 1. : a pleasing series of musical notes that form the main part of a song or piece of music. [count]. He wrote a piece that includes some beautiful/haunting melodies. [+] more examples [-] hide examples [+] Example sentences [-] Hide examples. [noncount].