Inspired by nature. Contains bioidentical estradiol, a plant-based estrogen that is chemically identical to the estrogen made naturally by the body. This does not mean that Minivelle is safer or more effective than other hormone therapies.
Minivelle™ contains bioidentical estradiol, a plant-based estrogen that is chemically identical to the estrogen produced naturally by a woman’s body. This does not mean there are differences in safety or efficacy compared to other estrogen therapies.
INDICATION. MINIVELLE (estradiol transdermal system) is a prescription medicine patch that contains estradiol (an estrogen hormone). MINIVELLE is used to reduce moderate to severe hot flashes due to menopause and to help prevent postmenopausal osteoporosis (thin weak bones).
MINIVELLE (estradiol transdermal system) 0.0375mg, 0.05mg, 0.075mg, 0.1mg patch. Noven announced that Minivelle (estradiol transdermal system) is now available. Minivelle is indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe vasomotor symptoms (eg, hot flashes, night sweats) due to menopause.
Minivelle™ contains bioidentical estradiol, a plant-based estrogen that is chemically identical to the estrogen produced naturally by a woman’s body. This does not mean there are differences in safety or efficacy compared to other estrogen therapies.
MINIVELLE (estradiol transdermal system) is a prescription medicine patch that contains estradiol (an estrogen hormone). MINIVELLE is used to reduce moderate to severe hot flashes due to menopause and to help prevent postmenopausal osteoporosis (thin weak bones).
According to the North American Menopause Society* (www.menopause.org), the term bioidentical is used to describe hormones that are chemically identical to the hormones produced naturally by a woman’s ovaries.. The most common form of estrogen produced by a woman's ovaries is estradiol.
Minivelle™ is bioequivalent to Vivelle® (estradiol transdermal system), with the same demonstrated safety and efficacy for the treatment of moderate to severe vasomotor symptoms due to menopause, commonly known as hot flashes and night sweats.
Minivelle is currently the smallest estrogen patch available at 2.48cm 2 per patch (about 34% smaller than Vivelle-Dot). Minivelle contains bioidentical estradiol, a plant-based estrogen that is chemically identical to the estrogen produced naturally by a woman's body.