Deleting. Once you have the selected the sites you want to delete from your Favorites, do not left-click the mouse as this will deselect all of them. Mouse over one of the selected items and right-click, opening another menu. Click on Delete.. The Favorites folder should be located within. If you are using Vista or a newer version of Windows, locate the Favorites folder by clicking on the Start menu and selecting your user name, located on the far right side of the menu. Double-click on it to open your User folder; the Favorites folder can be found within.
If your Favorites menu becomes overloaded with websites, you can clean the clutter by deleting several bookmarked pages at once through Internet Explorer. You can also use File Explorer to remove favorites. Step 1. Open Internet Explorer and click the Favorites button. 1 Select your username and choose Favorites to view your Internet Explorer favorites. 2  Highlight multiple favorites, press Delete and confirm the deletion when prompted.
2. Delete a folder of bookmarks. Right-click on a folder of bookmarks you want to delete, and from the contextual menu, select Delete.. 3. Delete individual bookmarks. Click on a bookmarks folder to display the contents of the folder in the main window. 5. Delete a folder of bookmarks. From the Bookmarks menu, tap Edit. Tap the red button icon next to the folder you want to delete, and a red Delete button will appear to the right of the folder name.
Tip. 1  You can also delete favorites in bulk using File Explorer. 2  From the Start screen, swipe from the right side of the screen and tap the Search icon. 3  If you are using a mouse, point the cursor to the top right and drag down, then click Search.. 1 Select your username and choose Favorites to view your Internet Explorer favorites. 2  Highlight multiple favorites, press Delete and confirm the deletion when prompted.
Hi Denserv. You can follow these steps to delete the Favorites: 1. Click on Computer then click on (C:) Drive. 2. Click on Users, Click on your username. 3. Then Click on the Favorites folder. 4. Press Ctrl+A to select all and then press delete. Hope this information was helpful. Let me know if this worked. All the best! Thanks and Regards, Uma R-Microsoft Support.
Step 1. Click the Favorites (star icon) link on the Internet Explorer toolbar, click the arrow next to the Add to Favorites button and then click Organize Favorites to launch the Favorites Center. Step 2. Click the folder that contains the favorites to delete
Double-click on the user whose favorites you wish to delete. Open the Favorites folder, which has an icon of a folder with a star. This folder contains favorites for Internet Explorer. Press Ctrl+A to highlight all of the contents within the Favorites folder. Right-click on the highlighted items and select Delete from the drop-down menu. The favorites for Internet Explorer will be deleted. 
1 You can also delete favorites in bulk using File Explorer. 2  From the Start screen, swipe from the right side of the screen and tap the Search icon. 3  If you are using a mouse, point the cursor to the top right and drag down, then click Search.. 1 Select your username and choose Favorites to view your Internet Explorer favorites. 2  Highlight multiple favorites, press Delete and confirm the deletion when prompted.
Deleting Your Internet Explorer Favorites. 1  Click on the Internet Explorer Favorites icon, and select Organize Favorites. 2  Select the Favorite you want to delete, and click on the Delete button. 3  You'll be asked if you are sure you want to delete this; click Yes. 1 Click on the Internet Explorer Favorites icon, and select Organize Favorites. 2  Select the Favorite you want to delete, and click on the Delete button. 3  You'll be asked if you are sure you want to delete this; click Yes.