A number of medications are used to treat bipolar disorder. The types and doses of medications prescribed are based on your particular symptoms. Medications may include: 1  Mood stabilizers. 1 Children and teens with bipolar disorder are often prescribed the same types of medications as those used in adults. 2  There's less research on the safety and effectiveness of bipolar medications in children than in adults, so treatment decisions are often based on adult research. 3  Psychotherapy.
It is most often the first line of treatment for depression. Medicines-Medicines are commonly used to treat depression. Your family doctor can prescribe the medications or refer you to a psychiatrist. The medications are chosen based on your symptoms. The cost of medicines and potential side effects are important considerations when choosing this type of treatment for depression. The most common treatment for depression includes the combination of antidepressant medicine (see Depression Medicines) and psychotherapy. Psychotherapy-Psychotherapy is sometimes called talking therapy.. It is used to treat mild and moderate forms of
1 Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) are some of the first antidepressants used to treat depression. 2  They primarily affect the levels of two chemical messengers (neurotransmitters), norepinephrine and serotonin, in the brain. 1 Although these drugs are effective in treating depression, they have more side effects, so they usually aren't the first drugs used. 2  Monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) are another early form of antidepressant. 3  These drugs are most effective in people with depression who do not respond to other treatments.
Antidepressants, sometimes in combination with psychotherapy, are often the first treatment people get for depression. If one antidepressant doesn't work well, you might try another drug of the same class or a different class of depression medicines altogether. Your doctor might also try changing the dose. Not only does it take time to get an accurate depression diagnosis, finding the right medication to treat depression can be a complicated, delicate process. Someone may have a serious medical problem, such as heart disease or liver or kidney disease, that could make some antidepressants unsafe.
Monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) are older drugs that treat depression by preventing the breakdown of norepinephrine, dopamine, and serotonin. They’re more difficult for patients to take than most other antidepressants because they interact with many prescription drugs, nonprescription drugs, and foods. See a list of drugs commonly used to treat depression symptoms. Depression is classified as a mental health disorder. It’s a condition that most often surfaces in early adulthood and is more prevalent in women. However, anyone at any age may suffer from the disorder.
Antidepressants are medications used to treat depression and several other disorders. With proper treatment, often including antidepressants, 70% - 80% of people with major depressive disorder (MDD) can achieve a significant reduction in symptoms. 1. Tricyclic antidepressants drugs have been used to treat depression since the 1950s. This type of depression medication acts on neurotransmitters like serotonin and other chemicals as well. Tricyclics include drugs like: 1  Amitriptyline (Elavil, Levate). 2  Amoxapine (Asendin). 3  Clomipramine (Anafranil).
1 Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are a newer form of antidepressant. 2  These drugs work by altering the amount of a chemical in the brain called serotonin. 3  Serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) are another newer form of antidepressant medicine. 1 Although these drugs are effective in treating depression, they have more side effects, so they usually aren't the first drugs used. 2  Monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) are another early form of antidepressant. 3  These drugs are most effective in people with depression who do not respond to other treatments.
It is believed that these brain chemicals can help regulate brain circuits that affect emotions. Major types of antidepressants include: 1  Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) are some of the first antidepressants used to treat depression. 1 Although these drugs are effective in treating depression, they have more side effects, so they usually aren't the first drugs used. 2  Monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) are another early form of antidepressant. 3  These drugs are most effective in people with depression who do not respond to other treatments.
Introduction. Antidepressants are a type of medication used to treat clinical depression or prevent it recurring. They can also be used to treat a number of other conditions, including: 1  obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD). 2  generalised anxiety disorder. 3  post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). 
There are several types of depression medications (antidepressants) used to treat depression and conditions that have depression as a component of the disease, such as bipolar disorder. These drugs improve symptoms of depression by increasing the availability of certain brain chemicals called neurotransmitters. 1 Although these drugs are effective in treating depression, they have more side effects, so they usually aren't the first drugs used. 2  Monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) are another early form of antidepressant. 3  These drugs are most effective in people with depression who do not respond to other treatments.