Your engine and exhaust sytem are complicated pieces of machinery, and they also have a complicated relationship with the chemicals they spit into the atmosphere. One key way to minimize the pollution that's kicked out of your exhaust pipes is by using a catalytic converter, or cat converter. With a Bassani Catalytic Converter or a Magnaflow Cat Converter you can open up some of the restrictions of your stock converter and get a crucial extra bit of performance. When upgrading or replacing your catalytic converter, it's important to know that not all catalytics are 50-state street legal.
Although catalytic converters are most commonly applied to exhaust systems in automobiles, they are also used on electrical generators, forklifts, mining equipment, trucks, buses, locomotives and motorcycles. They are also used on some wood stoves to control emissions. The first widespread introduction of catalytic converters was in the United States automobile market. To comply with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency 's stricter regulation of exhaust emissions, gasoline-powered vehicles starting with the 1975 model year must be equipped with catalytic converters.
First, not all converters are legal in all states. To make a catalytic converter California legal, the device is put through a battery of extra testing and certification. But take heart, a California legal cat is legal in all states. Next, consider performance. A performance exhaust system will perform much better behind a high flow catalytic converter. In fact, big brand exhaust makers like Corsa exhaust highly recommend them. And since the performance models are so popular, they’re easy to find no matter what you drive. 
More exhaust backpressure generally means less horsepower, and a stock catalytic converter is often the greatest source of backpressure in an exhaust system. So it's no wonder the catalytic is often tossed in favor of an eBay test pipe when a performance-minded owner starts itching for a little more power. The Test Breathing through an aftermarket intake, header and cat-back exhaust system, our Civic mule put down a respectable 147hp and 105 lb-ft to the front wheels on K&N Engineering's dyno. Not too shabby, considering the car was still huffing through the stock OEM catalytic converter.
It is often thought that removing catalytic converters will increase power. This is not always true. Modern catalytic converters are not that restrictive of exhaust gases and especially on small engine cars do not rob you of much if any power. The WRX's main exhaust bottleneck is NOT the catalytic converters, it's the downpipe design. 
What it is, is an exhaust system without a catalytic converter. What it does is allow the exhaust to flow more freely because the cat isn't there to clean the exhaust(which slows the exhaust down). A catalytic converter or cat is a component in an exhaust system that essentially superheats the unburned gases to prevent them from exiting the car and making their way into the atmospere...strictly an emissions regulator.
Catalytic converter issues can lead to increased exhaust emissions and a decrease in engine performance. Most issues stem from temperature changes in the exhaust system. Excessive unburnt fuel in the exhaust can cause the catalyst to reach extremely high temperatures which can cause damage to the fine catalyst material. A catalytic converter substantially reduces the amount of harmful pollutants by taking these gases and converting them into water vapour and less harmful gases via a series of chemical reactions. All petrol cars manufactured since 1993 must have a catalytic converter fitted to the exhaust.
No catalytic converter. It opens up your exhaust. It is simple to take one off, just cut it off with a saw, torch, or what ever you have available to use. Then weld in a piece of exhaust pipe. But I wouldn't advise doing so, especially on a later model car. A catalytic converter or cat is a component in an exhaust system that essentially superheats the unburned gases to prevent them from exiting the car and making their way into the atmospere...strictly an emissions regulator.
Best Answer: A catless exaust is an automotive exaust system that has no catalytic converter. If the system doesn't call for one, you shouldn't put one in. And if it requires one, you shouldn't take it off. Taking a catalytic converter off will affect the performance and life of the engine. A catalytic converter or cat is a component in an exhaust system that essentially superheats the unburned gases to prevent them from exiting the car and making their way into the atmospere...strictly an emissions regulator.