The American Heart Association states that dietary potassium can help maintain a normal blood pressure. For healthy individuals, too much potassium will have no harmful effects on the heart. However, excess potassium consumption may lead to serious heart problems if your body is unable to excrete it. Potassium is an electrolyte found in our body that has many significant functions. According to the American Heart Association, it keeps a normal water balance between cells and body fluids. It also aids nerve conduction and muscle contraction. Potassium plays a key role in keeping the heart beating at a normal rhythm.
Low potassium (hypokalemia) refers to a lower than normal potassium level in your bloodstream. Potassium is a chemical (electrolyte) that is critical to the proper functioning of nerve and muscles cells, particularly heart muscle cells. Normally, your blood potassium level is 3.6 to 5.2 millimoles per liter (mmol/L).
Potassium is a mineral that plays many critical roles in the body. Food sources of potassium include fruits (especially dried fruits), cereals, beans, milk, and vegetables. Potassium is used for treating and preventing low potassium levels. It is also used to treat high blood pressure and prevent stroke. 
Potassium is a chemical element with symbol K (derived from Neo-Latin, kalium) and atomic number 19. It was first isolated from potash, the ashes of plants, from which its name is derived. Potassium in nature occurs only in ionic salts. Elemental potassium is a soft silvery-white alkali metal that oxidizes rapidly in air and reacts vigorously with water, generating sufficient heat to ignite hydrogen emitted in the reaction and burning with a lilac flame.
Potassium is the most important positively-charged ion present in the cells of the body. It helps in maintaining the heart, brain, kidneys, muscle tissues, and other organs of the body in a healthy condition. Causes of Hyperkalemia. The normal level of potassium in the blood is 3.5-5.0 mEq/L (mEq/L stand for milliequivalents per liter of blood) . Hyperkalemia is a condition in which the levels of potassium in the blood exceeds this level. It is characterized by irregular heartbeats, and in extreme cases, can be fatal. Its causes are given below
Potassium's Role in Maintaining Health. Many foods contain potassium, especially fresh fruits, and is essential for human life. It's a mineral with the chemical element symbol of K. Potassium wears many hats when it comes to functions within the body. Consider the following. 1  Potassium can help lower your blood pressure. 
Potassium is a very important mineral for the proper function of all cells, tissues, and organs in the human body. It is also an electrolyte, a substance that conducts electricity in the body, along with sodium, chloride, calcium, and magnesium. 
Because potassium plays such an important role in maintaining a normal heart rhythm, hyperkalemia can cause dangerous, irregular heart rhythms. According to the National Institutes of Health, hyperkalemia may cause a heart block, bradycardia (slow heart rate), ventricular tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation. Potassium is an electrolyte found in our body that has many significant functions. According to the American Heart Association, it keeps a normal water balance between cells and body fluids. It also aids nerve conduction and muscle contraction. Potassium plays a key role in keeping the heart beating at a normal rhythm.
Too much potassium is dangerous and can cause feelings of burning or tingling, generalized weakness, paralysis, listlessness, dizziness, mental confusion, low blood pressure, irregular heart rhythm, and death. Do not take potassium if: 1  smaller. 2  medium. 3  larger. 