1 Generally monthly, quarterly and annual financial statements are prepared by a bookkeeper or someone using accounting software, but it can take 0.5-1.5 hours ($75-$600) for an accountant to review these reports looking for trends or discrepancies, and to interpret them, giving advice on future actions.
1 Accountants charge $150-$400 or more an hour, depending on the type of work, the size of the firm and its location. 2  You'll pay lower rates for routine work done by a less-experienced associate or lesser-trained employee, such as $30-$50 for bookkeeping services. 3  An accountant's total fee depends on the project.
1 For example, if you're considering buying a San Francisco Bay Area business that's for sale for less than $1 million, an accountant's fees for a due diligence evaluation of all financial aspects of the company and the transaction could run $5,000-$25,000, according to SFGate.com.
Next the accountant reviews payroll records to estimate the labor cost per hour and finds workers usually make $12 per hour; in addition, the company pays a variety of fringe benefits that amount to 30% of the hourly wage. Total company cost for an hour of labor, then, equals $15.60 ($12 + (30% x $12).
Cost Estimating Manual for WSDOT Projects November 2008 Page iii Foreword Each project is unique. To accurately develop an estimate of the construction costs for a project, an Estimator must be capable of mentally constructing the project and then accounting for all the activities necessary to complete it.
Accountants prepare product costs to serve two purposes: Decision making by managers, and external reporting. Decision making product costs approximate the marginal costs economists discuss, i.e., the unit costs includes the amount that total company costs increase when an additional unit is produced.
Your goal it to determine the cost equation for a particular cost, so that managers can estimate 'total' costs at various activity levels. The cost equation will contain the variable cost per unit and total fixed costs. These two amounts remain the same at all levels of activity within the relevant range.
CPA exam costs vary by state for the initial application fee (generally from $30 - $200) but in general you can expect your application and exam fees to cost around $1,000. If you choose an exam test prep course, such as Becker CPA Review, Kaplan CPA Review or Yaeger CPA Review, expect an average of $1,500.
The goal of each cost estimation method is to estimate fixed and variable costs and to describe this estimate in the form of Y = f + v X. That is, Total mixed cost = Total fixed cost + (Unit variable cost × Number of units).