The blood-brain barrier (BBB) is a diffusion barrier, which impedes influx of most compounds from blood to brain. Three cellular elements of the brain microvasculature compose the BBB-endothelial cells, astrocyte end-feet, and pericytes (PCs).
The blood–brain barrier (BBB) is a highly selective permeability barrier that separates the circulating blood from the brain extracellular fluid (BECF) in the central nervous system (CNS).
About. The blood brain barrier (BBB) is a dynamic interface that separates the brain from the circulatory system and protects the central nervous system (CNS) from potentially harmful chemicals while regulating transport of essential molecules and maintaining a stable environment.
blood-brain barrier. n. A physiological mechanism that alters the permeability of brain capillaries, so that some substances, such as certain drugs, are prevented from entering brain tissue, while other substances are allowed to enter freely.
what is blood brain barrier. A physiological mechanism that alters the permeability of brain capillaries so that some substances, such as certain drugs, are prevented from entering brain tissue, while other substances are allowed to enter freely.
The blood-brain barrier (BBB) is a protective barrier which is designed to keep the environment in the brain as stable as possible. It prevents many dangerous substances from entering the brain, protecting the brain from an assortment of potential risks, ranging from infection to elevated levels of hormones in the body.
The blood-brain barrier (BBB) is a cellular and metabolic barrier located at the capillaries in the brain that alters permeability, restricting the passage of some chemical substances and microscopic objects from the bloodstream into the neural tissue, while allowing other substances to pass into the brain.
blood-brain barrier, n barrier formed by epithelial cells in the capillaries that supply the brain and central nervous system. This barrier selectively allows entry of substances such as glucose, some ions, and oxygen, while blocking entry of other substances.
The barrier separates the parenchyma of the central nervous system from blood. The blood-brain barrier prevents or slows the passage of some drugs and other chemical compounds, radioactive ions, and disease-causing organisms such as viruses from the blood into the central nervous system.