The FDA advises that you should keep the temperature of your fridge between 32 and 40 degrees Fahrenheit, preferably right in the middle of that range, at, say, 35 degrees. Set the temperature at 35, and you avoid the risk of frozen food (that’s what the freezer’s for!) and you avoid the risk of spoilage.
If you keep potatoes in the fridge they should not be stored at temperatures below 7 °C (45 °F). If, that is, you intend to use them for roasting for frying. At lower temperatures the starch in the potato breaks down giving a burnt look and a bitter taste after roasting.
1 Keep the refrigerator temperature at or below 40° F (4° C). 2  The freezer temperature should be 0° F (-18° C). 3  Check temperatures periodically. 4  Appliance thermometers are the best way of knowing these temperatures and are generally inexpensive.
1 A fridge should have a temperature of between 37°F(3°C) and 40°F (5°C). 2  Any higher and the food will go off, any lower and you’ll lose nutrients and fresh food can be ruined. 3  The ideal freezer temperature is 0°F (-18°C) which will store food safely and stop bacteria forming.
One of the most basic ways to ensure food safety in your kitchen is to set your refrigerator and freezer to safe temperatures for food storage. According to the Food and Drug Administration, your fridge should be set at or below 40 F (4 C).
In order to keep food out of the Danger Zone, your fridge must be set between 32-40° F (0-4 degrees Celsius). Your freezer must be below 32° F (0° Celsius). I keep mine as cold as it will go. Keep your freezer efficient by half-filling it with bottles of water.
1 If you do lose power, keep the doors to your fridge and freezer closed as much as possible to keep foods cold. 2  Before using any foods, check your refrigerator and freezer thermometers. 3  If the fridge is still at or below 40 °F, or the food has been above 40 °F for only two hours or less, it should be safe to eat.
Everyone should have a refrigerator thermometer to monitor temperature. Buy the best quality thermometer that you can afford. To check the temperature of your refrigerator, put a glass of water in the middle of the refrigerator and put the thermometer in it. Wait 8 hours before checking