If your baby has bile-stained vomiting, click here-bile is bright green. More information on what causes bile-stained vomit and what to do about it. If your baby has tummy pain, click here-Information on Intussusception-babies get bouts of crying and drawing up the legs.
Throwing up is usually no cause for alarm. But in some cases it can signal a serious health problem. Here's how to tell when your toddler's vomiting needs immediate medical attention — and how to deal with vomiting that doesn't need a doctor's care. Call 911 immediately if:
1 A little blood in the vomit is usually nothing to worry about, as the force of vomiting can cause tiny tears in the blood vessels lining the esophagus. 2  Your toddler's vomit may also be tinged with red if he's swallowed blood from a cut in his mouth or a nosebleed within the last six hours.
Call Your Pediatrician When: 1  Toddler vomiting has been for more than 24 hours. 2  For some illnesses, this is perfectly normal, but check with your doctor just to be sure. 3  Signs of becoming dehydrated, including decreased urination, dry lips and mouth, crying without tears, lethargy, and dark yellow urine.
If he continues to vomit, possible causes include: 1  Viral or Bacterial Infection: A stomach bug or other intestinal illness is the most likely reason. 2  If a virus or bacteria have infected your toddler's stomach lining or intestines, he may also have diarrhea, loss of appetite, abdominal pain, and fever.
This gives your child’s stomach a chance to recover. Replacing fluids. Dehydration can be a problem when your child is vomiting. Begin replacing fluids after your child has not vomited for 30 to 60 minutes.
1 The vomit contains blood. 2  A little blood in the vomit is usually nothing to worry about, as the force of vomiting can cause tiny tears in the blood vessels lining the esophagus. 3  Your toddler's vomit may also be tinged with red if he's swallowed blood from a cut in his mouth or a nosebleed within the last six hours.
1 If a virus or bacteria have infected your toddler's stomach lining or intestines, he may also have diarrhea, loss of appetite, abdominal pain, and fever. 2  The vomiting usually stops within 12 to 24 hours. 3  Acid Reflux In Toddlers: Acid reflux is common in toddlers.
When your child vomits (throws up), it’s normal to be concerned or worried. But vomiting is usually not due to a major health problem. Vomiting is most often caused by viral infection or food poisoning. It usually lasts only a day or two.
Call your toddler's doctor if: 1  Your child has been vomiting for more than 24 hours. 2  For some illnesses, this is perfectly normal, but check with the doctor to be sure.