1 Strawberries-These luscious red berries are a great source of bioflavonoids. 2  Other berry types are similarly rich in these kinds of antioxidants. 3  This leads to specific claims of health benefits for berry-made wines and derivative foods. 4  Citrus Fruits-Oranges are a significant source of bioflavonoids. 1 Lemons and limes, as well as peaches, nectarines and other fruits all contain vitamin C and bioflavonoid superoxidants. 2  Broccoli-This green vegetable has a lot of vitamin C, as well as some other essential vitamins for a healthy diet. 3  As with other foods, use broccoli raw for best results.
Foods Rich in Bioflavonoids. Fresh fruits and vegetables are generally the top choices for getting plenty of bioflavonoids in a diet. Here are some of the most popular ways to get the most of these helpful nutritional elements. 1 Lemons and limes, as well as peaches, nectarines and other fruits all contain vitamin C and bioflavonoid superoxidants. 2  Broccoli-This green vegetable has a lot of vitamin C, as well as some other essential vitamins for a healthy diet. 3  As with other foods, use broccoli raw for best results.
9 Foods Rich in Bioflavonoids. Bioflavonoids, also sometimes referred to as vitamin P, are super-antioxidants found in many natural foods. Scientists have found that bioflavonoids have specific capabilities to increase bodily health in many different ways. 1 Lemons and limes, as well as peaches, nectarines and other fruits all contain vitamin C and bioflavonoid superoxidants. 2  Broccoli-This green vegetable has a lot of vitamin C, as well as some other essential vitamins for a healthy diet. 3  As with other foods, use broccoli raw for best results.
Vitamin C and bioflavonoids are important antioxidants that help keep your eyes and body healthy. Foods high in vitamin C, such as citrus fruits and many vegetables, are also excellent sources of bioflavonoids. Bioflavonoids are a large family of substances found in most of the same foods that are good sources of vitamin C. In fact, researchers have identified more than 8,000 naturally occurring bioflavonoid structures. Bioflavonoids (also called flavonoids) are the natural pigments that give fruits and vegetables their color
TOP. Vitamin P Foods Almost all vegetables, fruits, spices and herbs contain bioflavonoids, as do some grains and dried beans. There is a vast range of types of flavonoids, with different ones from different foods. Green tea for example, contains flavonoids called catechins that can reach up to 100 milligrams per cup. 
Bioflavonoids are also found in good quantities in the pulp and rinds of citrus fruits and other foods containing vitamin C. These include grapes, oranges, grapefruits, tomatoes, lemons, plums, papaya, cherries, apples, apricots and berries. Other excellent sources include green tea, eggplant, flaxseed, and soybeans. 
Foods Rich in Bioflavonoids. There are a good number of easy and practical ways to get bioflavonoids into your system and to reap the benefits of their antioxidant properties. Fresh vegetables and fresh fruits are, of course, the best choices for a diet filled with these chemicals. Some of the most popular foods that contain them are not that bad tasting either and include red bell peppers or sweet peppers, which contain almost three times as much vitamin C as orange juice. The best way to consume red peppers to get bioflavonoids is in raw form
A single type of fruit or vegetable often contains several different bioflavonoids, but certain foods are especially rich in a particular compound. For example, red grapes, wine and olive oil are exceptionally rich sources of resveratrol, while apples and red, blue and purple berries contain abundant anthocyanidin. Vitamin C, also called ascorbic acid, is an essential vitamin you must consume as part of your food. It is crucial for many processes that help your body function normally and help you stay healthy. Vitamin C also has potent antioxidant activity that may help protect you from illness.
Many fruits and vegetables are sources of vitamin C and bioflavonoids. Vitamin C, also called ascorbic acid, is an essential vitamin you must consume as part of your food. It is crucial for many processes that help your body function normally and help you stay healthy. Vitamin C also has potent antioxidant activity that may help protect you from illness.