The main advantage of fixed term or specific purpose contracts is that they allow for the termination of the contract once the fixed term or the specific purpose has been completed. Where a company proposes to employ a person on such a contract the contract of employment should be tailored accordingly. 
However, there are other terms that you can include in an employment contract, such as: 1  The term of employment (A period of months or years, until the completion of a project, or indefinitely), 2  Terms relating to the responsibilities of the employee, First and foremost, a good employment contract will spell out what exactly you expect the employee to do (the parameters of their job). In addition, the contract will spell out what your employee can expect from you (normally a salary).
At-will employment means that an employee can be fired even if he or she does not violate any terms of employment. However, some employees work under contracts that provide job security for the length of the contract as long as they do not violate their contract conditions. RELATED TERMS. DEFINITION of 'Terms Of Employment'. The conditions that an employer and employee agree upon for a job. Terms of employment include an employee's job responsibilities, work days, hours, breaks, dress code, vacation and sick days and pay. They also include benefits such as health insurance, life insurance and retirement plans
An employment contract or contract of employment is a kind of contract used in labour law to attribute rights and responsibilities between parties to a bargain. The contract is between an employee and an employer.. It has arisen out of the old master-servant law, used before the 20th century. But generally, the contract of employment denotes a relationship of economic dependence and social subordination. In the words of the controversial labour lawyer Sir Otto Kahn-Freund, A contract of employment usually defined to mean the same as a contract of service. A contract of service has historically been distinguished from a contract for the supply of services, the expression altered to imply the dividing line between a person who is employed and someone who is self-employed.
Term. Most employment contracts set a definite term of employment. This guarantees employees a job as long as they do not violate the terms of the contract, and allows employers to dismiss an employee at the end of the term in jurisdictions that restrict the ability of employers to fire employees. A good employment contract is beneficial to both the employee and the employer. It spells out the rights and obligations of each party, protects the job security of the employee and protects the employer from certain risks such as the release of confidential employer information after the term of employment ends.
As an employer, you should be aware of the various factors to consider when thinking about employee contracts. To sum it up, an employment contract is a document that both you and your employee sign that dictates the terms of your professional relationship. There is no requirement that you have to enter into a written employee contract with every employee that you have. First and foremost, a good employment contract will spell out what exactly you expect the employee to do (the parameters of their job). In addition, the contract will spell out what your employee can expect from you (normally a salary).
These are called the ‘terms’ of the contract. Employees and employers must stick to a contract until it ends (eg by an employer or employee giving notice or an employee being dismissed) or until the terms are changed (usually by agreement between the employee and employer). 
4. Written statement of employment particulars. An employer must give employees a ‘written statement of employment particulars’ if their employment contract lasts at least a month or more. This isn’t an employment contract but will include the main conditions of employment. 