Figure 6.1 Kinked Demand Curve Model. If firms face such demand curves, the price, p*, is profit maximizing for any marginal cost curve (MC) that cuts the vertical section of the marginal revenue curve (MR). For example, p* is the profit-maximizing price for both MC. 
The Kinked-Demand curve theory is an economic theory regarding oligopoly and monopolistic competition. When it was created, the idea fundamentally challenged classical economic tenets such as efficient markets and rapidly changing prices, ideas that underlie basic supply and demand models. They are distinguished by a hypothesized concave bend with a discontinuity at the bend-the kink.. Therefore, the first derivative at that point is undefined and leads to a jump discontinuity in the marginal revenue curve.
What emerges is a kinked demand curve, highly elastic at prices above the current equilibrium and highly inelastic at prices below the current equilibrium. Along with this kinked demand curve comes a kinked marginal revenue curve, with a vertical section. The implication is that even as an oligopolist’s costs rise and fall in the short-run, its level of output and price tends to remain stable. 
Standard demand curve with a bend depicting competitors decreasing prices to match another’s, yet not raising prices to match another’s. Concern is that raising prices lose customers, so that once a business has reduced prices to a certain level, gain market share. 
Kinked demand curves and traditional demand curves are similar in that they are both downward-sloping. They are distinguished by a hypothesized concave bend with a discontinuity at the bend-the kink.. Therefore, the first derivative at that point is undefined and leads to a jump discontinuity in the marginal revenue curve.
Kinked demand curve. The reaction of rivals to a price change depends on whether price is raised or lowered. The elasticity of demand, and hence the gradient of the demand curve, will be also be different. The demand curve will be kinked, at the current price. Even when there is a large rise in marginal cost, price tends to stick close to its original, given the high price elasticity of demand for any price rise. 
The primary use of the kinked-demand curve is to explain price rigidity in oligopoly. The two segments are: (1) a relatively more elastic segment for price increases and (2) a relatively less elastic segment for price decreases. For price decreases, the constant market share demand curve is the relevant demand curve facing OmniCola. Click the [Price Decrease] button to highlight this segment. However, should OmniCola raise its price, other firms in the industry benefit by keeping their prices constant.
The more elasticity segment of the kinked demand curve exists because other firms in the industry are unlikely to match price increases of an oligopolistic firm. The result is a loss of market share and big decreases in quantity demand. For price decreases, the constant market share demand curve is the relevant demand curve facing OmniCola. Click the [Price Decrease] button to highlight this segment. However, should OmniCola raise its price, other firms in the industry benefit by keeping their prices constant.
A bend in a standard demand curve that is a result of competitors decreasing their prices to match each others, but not raising them to achieve the same effect. The thought is that once a business has reduced their price to a certain level any fluctuation that raises the price will cause the firm to lose customers. 
Kinked OmniCola Demand. 1  Existing Price and Quantity: The initial price is $1 per can and the initial quantity sold is 10,000 cans. 2  The kink in the demand curve occurs at this price and quantity. 3  Note that this analysis does not explain how the existing price and quantity came to be $1 per can and 10,000 cans. 1