It is the genetic makeup of something, as opposed to the physical expression of the genes (phenotype). They are expressed in a pair of letters, usually, which are alleles. The allele pairs genotype is commonly expressed as RR (each letter representing one allele) as a Dominant trait, Rr as co-dominant or rr as recessive. This example uses the letter R, but different letters are used to describe different traits, they are in actual fact just variables
The Genotype is that part (DNA sequence) of the genetic makeup of a cell, and therefore of an organism or individual, which determines a specific characteristic (phenotype) of that cell/organism/individual. 1 Conversely, some phenotypes could be the result of multiple genotypes. 2  The genotype is commonly mixed up with the Phenotype which describes the end result of both the genetic and the environmental factors giving the observed expression (e.g. blue eyes, hair color, or various hereditary diseases).
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The genotype–phenotype distinction is drawn in genetics.  Genotype  is an organism's full hereditary information.  Phenotype  is an organism's actual observed properties, such as morphology, development, or behavior. This distinction is fundamental in the study of inheritance of traits and their evolution. 
(genetics). (1) The entire set of genes in an organism. (2) A set of alleles that determines the expression of a particular characteristic or trait (phenotype). (zoology). The genetic makeup of an individual or taxon. Supplement. The genotype refers to the entire set of genes in a cell, an organism, or an individual. A gene for a particular character or trait may exist in two allelic forms; one is dominant (e.g. A) and the other is recessive (e.g. a). 
Genotype refers to the genetic traits in an organism. It has to do with the genetic coding of an organism. Such coding is inheritable. The genotype is the genetic load that is copied every time a cell divides, and therefore is inherited down to the next generation. Genotype means the ge … netic constitution of the organism. The genotype results in the phenotype.   A genotype is the actual composition of the alleles present on each chromosome for a particular gene in an organism. A phenotype is the observed trait in
It's a genotype. The phenotype is a physical manifestation of the genotype, which means that it's what happens on the outside because an organism has the gene. An example of a … phenotype would be if someone had blue eyes or something. The genotype is the two-letter abbreviation thingy. Genotype means the ge … netic constitution of the organism. The genotype results in the phenotype.   A genotype is the actual composition of the alleles present on each chromosome for a particular gene in an organism. A phenotype is the observed trait in
The genotype of an organism is the inherited map it carries within its genetic code. Not all organisms with the same genotype look or act the same way because appearance and behavior are modified by environmental and developmental conditions. 1 Conversely, some phenotypes could be the result of multiple genotypes. 2  The genotype is commonly mixed up with the Phenotype which describes the end result of both the genetic and the environmental factors giving the observed expression (e.g. blue eyes, hair color, or various hereditary diseases).
Genotype refers to the genetic makeup of a cell. For each individual trait (such as hair or eye color), a cell contains instructions on two alleles, which are alternative forms of the gene obtained from the mother and the father. The genotype of an organism is the genetic code in its cells. This genetic constitution of an individual influences – but is not solely responsible for – many of its traits. The phenotype is the visible or expressed trait, such as hair color.
In a broad sense, the term genotype refers to the genetic makeup of an organism; in other words, it describes an organism's complete set of genes. In a more narrow sense, the term can be used to refer to the alleles, or variant forms of a gene, that are carried by an organism. Each pair of alleles represents the genotype of a specific gene. For example, in sweet pea plants, the gene for flower color has two alleles. One allele codes for purple flowers and is represented by the uppercase letter F, whereas the second codes for white flowers and is represented by the lowercase letter f.