Animal cell contains membrane bound nucleus, it also contains other membrane bound cellular organelles. These cellular organelles carry out specific functions that are necessary for the normal functioning of the cell. A nimal cells lack cell wall, a large vacuole and plastids. Due to the lack of the cell wall, the shape and size of the animal cells are mostly irregular. The constituents of animal cells are structures like centrioles, cilia and flagella and lysosomes.
All animal cells are eukaryotic, they are surrounded by cell membrane and do not have a cell wall. The components of animal cells are centrioles, cilia and flagella, endoplasmic reticulum, Golgi apparatus, lysosomes, microfilaments, microtubules,mitochondria, nucleus, peroxisomes, plasma membrane and ribosomes. There are many different cell types, approximately 210 distinct cell types in adult human body. Cell Wall: Cell wall is seen only in plant cell. It is made of cellulose. The function of the cell wall is to support,protect and allow diffusion of gases in and out of the cell. The strength of the cell walls help the tree to stand tall and grow against gravity.
All animals and plants are made of cells. Animal cells and plant cells have features in common, such as a nucleus, cytoplasm, cell membrane, mitochondria and ribosomes. Plant cells also have a cell wall, and often have chloroplasts and a permanent vacuole.
Confidence votes 44. An animal cell is made of a nucleus, a cell membrane, endoplasmic reticulum, mitochondrion, a nucleolus, Golgi bodies, ribosomes, lysosomes, and chromosomes. They are not that … different from improved animal cells but different from human cells and improved human cells. Animal cells do not have cell walls, they only have cell membranes. The cell membrane mainly consists of a phospholipid bilayer, and also contains embedded proteins and choles … terol. Plant cell walls are mainly made of cellulose, bacterial cell walls are mainly made of peptidoglycan.
Answer by Pambergn11. Confidence votes 44. An animal cell is made of a nucleus, a cell membrane, endoplasmic reticulum, mitochondrion, a nucleolus, Golgi bodies, ribosomes, lysosomes, and chromosomes. They are not that different from improved animal cells but different from human cells and improved human cells. Animal cells do not have cell walls, they only have cell membranes. The cell membrane mainly consists of a phospholipid bilayer, and also contains embedded proteins and choles … terol. Plant cell walls are mainly made of cellulose, bacterial cell walls are mainly made of peptidoglycan.
Animal Cell Structure Animal cells are typical of the eukaryotic cell, enclosed by a plasma membrane and containing a membrane-bound nucleus and organelles. Unlike the eukaryotic cells of plants and fungi, animal cells do not have a cell wall. Most cells, both animal and plant, range in size between 1 and 100 micrometers and are thus visible only with the aid of a microscope. The lack of a rigid cell wall allowed animals to develop a greater diversity of cell types, tissues, and organs.
Answer by Nathan Tykocki. Confidence votes 24. An animal cell is made of a nucleus, a cell membrane, endoplasmic reticulum, mitochondrion, a nucleolus, Golgi bodies, ribosomes, lysosomes, and chromosomes. They are not that different from improved animal cells but different from human cells and improved human cells. The membrane itself is made of phospholipids...these are a type of fat that look like a ball with two long streamers attached to it. They are amphipathic, meaning they both like water and repel water.
Cell wall: The cell wall is a rigid layer that surrounds the plant cells. Plant cell walls are primarily made up of cellulose. It is located outside the cell membrane whose main function is to provide rigidity, strength, protection against mechanical stress and infection. Cell Wall: Cell wall is seen only in plant cell. It is made of cellulose. The function of the cell wall is to support,protect and allow diffusion of gases in and out of the cell. The strength of the cell walls help the tree to stand tall and grow against gravity.