Viral infections such as mumps, flu, and others can cause swelling of the salivary glands. Swelling happens in parotid glands on both sides of the face, giving the appearance of chipmunk cheeks.. Salivary gland swelling is commonly associated with mumps, happening in about 30% to 40% of mumps infections.
Salivary gland infections affect the glands that produce saliva (spit). The infection may be due to bacteria or viruses. There are three pairs of major salivary glands: 1  Parotid glands. 2  These are the two largest glands. 3  One is located in each cheek over the jaw in front of the ears.
A salivary gland infection occurs when a bacterial or viral infection affects the salivary gland or duct. The infection can result from reduced saliva flow or the blockage or inflammation of a salivary duct. The condition is called sialadenitis. Your mouth is almost constantly flushed with saliva.
Bacterial infection of the salivary gland, most commonly the parotid gland, may result when the duct into the mouth is blocked. Sialadenitis creates a painful lump in the gland, and foul-tasting pus drains into the mouth.
Viral infections such as mumps often affect the salivary glands. Mumps most often involves parotid salivary gland). Mumps is a rare problem today because of the MMR vaccine. Bacterial infections are most often the result of a: 1  Blockage from salivary duct stones. 2  Poor cleanliness in the mouth (oral hygiene).
Sialadenitis, or salivary gland inflammation, is an often painful bacterial infection of a salivary gland. The condition, which most commonly affects the parotid gland, may result when the duct into the mouth is blocked. Sialadenitis creates a painful lump in the gland, and foul-tasting pus drains into the mouth.
Salivary gland infections affect the glands that produce saliva (spit). The infection may be due to bacteria or viruses. There are three pairs of major salivary glands: 1  Parotid glands. 2  These are the two largest glands. 3  One is located in each cheek over the jaw in front of the ears.