Yes, marriage counseling can work, but it can also destroy your marriage. I’m not trying to scare you away from it, and I don’t have a bias against it. Marriage counseling or couples therapy does have its advantages. But to have success with it, to make your marriage strong and healthy, you need to know the dangers and disadvantages of marriage counseling, too. So, read on. Learn from my failure, and make marriage counseling work for you
Marriage counseling, also called couples therapy, is a type of psychotherapy. Marriage counseling helps couples of all types recognize and resolve conflicts and improve their relationships. Through marriage counseling, you can make thoughtful decisions about rebuilding your relationship or going your separate ways. 
Answer: Marriage Counselors work with married couples to either help them handle marital discord or enhance the marital relationship. Marriage counselors are schooled in teaching couples conflict resolution skills and communication skills. A marriage counselor will begin working with the couple together but may eventually work with each individually.
Incompetent: In the case of incompetent marriage counselors, the counselor has not been trained to work with couples together. They believe that working with two people is an expanded version of working with one, but it is not. An individual is easy to listen to, but a battling couple is not. 
Comstock Images/Stockbyte/Getty Images. Here's help in finding a counselor or psychiatrist and deciding if counseling will work for your marriage. Included is information on what type of couple gets the most from marriage counseling and what type of couple receives the least from marriage counseling. 
A marriage counselor is not a psychiatrist, and cannot diagnose and treat mental illnesses that play havoc on a marriage. However, the counselor can make suggestions about what underlying issues, such as drug abuse, childhood experiences or depression, he sees that might be contributing to the couple's troubles. A marriage counselor sees both individuals and married couples. Sometimes, a woman will seek counseling on her own because her husband refuses to attend meetings or she wants advice about him without him hearing the conversations.
Listens and Suggests. Most marriage counselors stay away from telling a couple whether they should stay together or divorce. Instead, the counselor is trained to help the couple talk to each other in a way that gets real results without the other person getting fired up. A marriage counselor sees both individuals and married couples. Sometimes, a woman will seek counseling on her own because her husband refuses to attend meetings or she wants advice about him without him hearing the conversations.
There aren’t any strong claims made by marriage counselors, but it is the general belief among many that counseling can make all the difference in a marriage, and get things back from the brink of divorce, and back to the honeymoon phase again. For marriage counseling to have any positive effect on your relationship, both you and your spouse have to be on board mentally. If either one of you is not taking it seriously then it won’t produce any results, and could even lead to a worsening of your relationship.
The role of a marriage counselor is to provide clients a safe, neutral place for couples to talk openly about what is disrupting the marriage. The counselor is highly skilled at making sure each person fights or discusses fairly, without the sense that one person is bullying the other or dominating the discussion. A marriage counselor sees both individuals and married couples. Sometimes, a woman will seek counseling on her own because her husband refuses to attend meetings or she wants advice about him without him hearing the conversations.