Serves 8. The Greeks eat bread, grains, potatoes, rice, and pasta nearly every day. Staples of the Greek diet include olives (and olive oil), eggplant, cucumbers, tomatoes, spinach, lentils, and other types of beans, lemons, nuts, honey, yogurt, feta cheese, eggs, fish, chicken, and lamb. 
They also ate bread, beans, onions, and green vegetables. The Egyptians enjoyed beef the most. They did not eat that much beef because it was very expensive, because cattle needed fields of grass to eat, and that took up precious land. People ate lots of fish because they were cheap. They also ate fruit. 
The foods of ancient Greece were similar to foods we eat today, but did not include many that have become important parts of modern Greek cooking. For example, tomatoes, peppers, potatoes, and bananas didn't arrive in Greece until after the discovery of the Americas in the 15th century, because that's where those foods originated. Lemons, oranges, eggplant, and rice also arrived later. But the ancient Greeks enjoyed a varied diet. Vegetables, legumes, and fruit were the mainstay, and fish was a favorite. Hunting brought game to the menu. To see a detailed article discussing how to eat like an ancient Greek, click here: Eating Like An Ancient Greek
FOOD OF THE ANCIENT GREEKS By 500BCE the population of the Greek homelands stood at about 2,000,000 and the Greek appetite for food had altered and broadened from the earlier, hunting-dependant, meat based diet. All sorts of changes had taken place, particularly in the growing & improvement of vegetables & fruit. 
In general, though, the heroes of the earliest Greek writings such as the Iliad and the Odyssey considered fish a lesser food. [1]. Though the Greeks ate some meat, meat had slightly barbaric connotations for them. They probably didn't eat more than 2 to 5 pounds (1 to 2 kg) of meat a year in total. There were even vegetarian groups that rejected it entirely.
Food. The Greek diet was very healthy. Food in Ancient Greece consisted of grains, wheat, barley, fruit, vegetables, breads, and cake. The Ancient Greeks grew olives, grapes, figs and wheat and kept goats, for milk and cheese. They ate lots of bread, beans and olives. In the Summer months there were plenty of fresh fruit and vegetables to eat and in the winter they ate dried fruit and food they had stored like apples and lentils. As most of the Greeks lived very near the sea, they also ate a lot of fish, squid and shellfish.
The Greek diet was very healthy. Food in Ancient Greece consisted of grains, wheat, barley, fruit, vegetables, breads, and cake. The Ancient Greeks grew olives, grapes, figs and wheat and kept goats, for milk and cheese. They ate lots of bread, beans and olives. Food in Ancient Greece consisted of grains, wheat, barley, fruit, vegetables, breads, and cake. The Ancient Greeks grew olives, grapes, figs and wheat and kept goats, for milk and cheese
Answer by Soccerdog270. Confidence votes 109. Greeks tend to eat a lot of seafood, poultry, goat meat and pork. They also love desserts, for example, Bacalavas (soft or normal), yoghurt and melle (honey), fruits and yoghurt. 1 Food in Greek Culture Greek cuisine uses lots of fresh herbs, olives, cheeses, yogurt, and seafood. 2  Other staples include lamb, eggplant, pine nuts, honey, and tomatoes. 3  Greek food is influenced b…. 4  Greek Festivals in Los Angeles The California area is packed full of amazing Greek festivals throughout the year.