Turkey eggs use the same temp and humidity as chicken eggs, however they do take 28 days to hatch. You stop turning them on day 25. I usually set my chicken eggs exactly a week later so they hatch together. 
How long does it take for a turkey egg to hatch? Turkey eggs usually take 21 to 28 days to hatch depending on what they are incubated in like an incubator or by a hen. It also depends on how fertile it is and how it is cared … for. It usually takes closer to 28 days. + 157 others found this useful. How long does it take for a caterpillar egg to hatch? Usually between 3-5 days depending on the temperature and other existing environmental conditions in which the egg resides.
The Basics: turkeys take about 28 days to hatch. incubation temp is the same as it is for chickens and ducks.. so 99.5 ºF in a forced air. 100.5 to 101.5 ºF for a still air incubator. 
1 The normal incubating period for turkeys is 28 days. 2  The newly hatched turkey will probably be peeping, wobbly, tired and wet. 3  Make sure it stays warm and rests. 4  The first crack will probably show up towards the thicker end of the egg. 1 In the last three days of incubation the turkey will move to get into hatching position. 2  6-12 hours before they hatch you may even hear them start to peep. 3  After 24 hours have passed, show the turkey its water and food. 4  Dip its beak in the water (but not so that it goes in the nostrils) and watch him drink.
Turkey eggs take approximately 28 days to hatch (stop turning them on day 25 of incubation). With the number of incubators available to use, it’s best to start with the instructions for your incubator and make adjustments as necessary. Turkeys need high protein levels in their feed to thrive. From hatch until about 12 weeks, we feed our poults a medicated, 28 percent protein starter for game birds. After 12 weeks, we switch to a 20 percent medicated starter.
On the 25th day, stop turning the eggs. This is so the turkey can get into hatching position. In approx three days, on the 28th day, they will hatch. When turkeys hatch out, they may roll over the others' eggs, use the turning marks to keep the same side up. 1 In the last three days of incubation the turkey will move to get into hatching position. 2  6-12 hours before they hatch you may even hear them start to peep. 3  After 24 hours have passed, show the turkey its water and food. 4  Dip its beak in the water (but not so that it goes in the nostrils) and watch him drink.
This video was shot on my property. The incubation time for turkey eggs is 28 days. Watch how the hen rotates the eggs. This is done once a day and is real treat to see. Once the eggs hatch, the mother leaves the nest within 12 to 24 hours and the little chicks following behind