Glutamate (Glutamic acid) is the most prominent neurotransmitter in the body, and it is the main excitatory neurotransmitter, being present in over 50% of nervous tissue. Glutamate was initially discovered to be a neurotransmitter in insect studies in the early 1960s. 
Glutamic Acid. Glutamic Acid is an excitotoxic amino acid. Consuming MSG can destroy brain cells that are not protected by the blood brain barrier, and affect brain development of a baby in the womb. Apsartic acid, found in Aspartame (Nutrasweet), has a similar affect on the body.
Moreover, glutamate can serve as a source of energy for the brain cells when their regular energy supplier, glucose, is lacking. However, when its levels rise too high in the spaces between cells—known as extracellular spaces—glutamate turns its coat to become a toxin that kills neurons. Head injury or stroke can cause a surge in glutamate, leaving damaged neurons in its wake. But a new method may help keep the chemical messenger in check. When a stroke or head injury releases a flood of the chemical messenger glutamate, the excess glutamate leaves
Glutamate flow in the brain is normally kept in check by a system of dam-like structures, which release a trickle of the substance only when and where it is needed. But burst a dam—as happens in stroke, head trauma, and some other neurological disorders—and the treacherous messenger floods the brain. Head injury or stroke can cause a surge in glutamate, leaving damaged neurons in its wake. But a new method may help keep the chemical messenger in check. When a stroke or head injury releases a flood of the chemical messenger glutamate, the excess glutamate leaves
Glutamate is an amino acid, found in protein-containing foods. It is one of the most abundant and important components of proteins. Glutamate occurs naturally in cheese, milk, meat, fish, and many vegetables. Glutamate is also produced by the human body and is vital for metabolism and brain function. Glutamate in the Nervous System. Glutamate is the principle excitatory amino acid in the central nervous system and is widely distributed.
Aspartic acid, or aspartate (another amino acid) is the brain’s second prevalent excitatory neurotransmitter. Aspartate poses the same deleterious toxicity to brain neurons as does glutamate, and is therefore also labeled as an excitotoxin. The MSG-reaction is a reaction to free glutamic acid that occurs in food as a consequence of manufacture. MSG-sensitive people do not react to protein (which contains bound glutamic acid) or any of the minute amounts of free glutamic acid that might be found in unadulterated, unfermented, food.
* The glutamate in MSG (monsodium glutamate), used in some foods, is related to brain glutamate but does not appear to get into the brains of adults very well. It can get into the brains of infants and be toxic to brain cells, however, which is why the FDA has not approved it for use in baby food. Head injury or stroke can cause a surge in glutamate, leaving damaged neurons in its wake. But a new method may help keep the chemical messenger in check. When a stroke or head injury releases a flood of the chemical messenger glutamate, the excess glutamate leaves
All invertebrates (worms, insects, and the like) use glutamate for conveying messages from nerve to muscle. In mammals, glutamate is mainly present in the central nervous system, brain, and spinal cord, where it plays the role of a neuronal messenger, or neurotransmitter. Head injury or stroke can cause a surge in glutamate, leaving damaged neurons in its wake. But a new method may help keep the chemical messenger in check. When a stroke or head injury releases a flood of the chemical messenger glutamate, the excess glutamate leaves
Why MSG is so Dangerous. Studies have shown that the body uses glutamate, an amino acid, as a nerve impulse transmitter in the brain and that there are glutamate-responsive tissues in other parts of the body, as well. Umami is the taste of glutamate, which is a savory flavor found in many Japanese foods, bacon and also in the toxic food additive MSG. It is because of umami that foods with MSG taste heartier, more robust and generally better to a lot of people than foods without it.
MSG is a glutamic acid. Glutamates are neurotransmitters that effect the signaling of nerve impulses in certain neurons. With respect to flavor, taste is facilitated by the selective excitation of your tastebuds (neurons) (see these two links for some of the anatomy and physiology abound taste and smell). 