1 Dark corn syrup is a combination of corn syrup and molasses (or Refiners' syrup), caramel color and flavor, salt, and the preservative sodium benzoate. 2  Dark corn syrup is a warm brown color and tastes much stronger than light corn syrup. 3  Molasses in dark corn syrup enhances its flavor and color. 1 Light corn syrup is corn syrup seasoned with vanilla flavor and salt. ) 2  Light corn syrup is clear and tastes moderately sweet. 3 
To make HFCS, enzymes are added to corn syrup in order to convert some of the glucose to another simple sugar called fructose, also called “fruit sugar” because it occurs naturally in fruits and berries. HFCS is ‘high’ in fructose compared to the pure glucose that is in corn syrup. Different formulations of HFCS contain different amounts of fructose. 
Corn syrup is distinct from high-fructose corn syrup (HFCS), which is manufactured from corn syrup by converting a large proportion of its glucose into fructose using the enzyme D-xylose isomerase, thus producing a sweeter compound due to higher levels of fructose. 1 Light corn syrup is corn syrup seasoned with vanilla flavor and salt. ) 2  Light corn syrup is clear and tastes moderately sweet. 3  Dark corn syrup is a combination of corn syrup and molasses (or Refiners' syrup), caramel color and flavor, salt, and the preservative sodium benzoate.
HFCS: Made to Be Sweet As Sugar. The two main types of high fructose corn syrup are HFCS-55 and HFCS-42. When HFCS-55 was developed, it was specifically formulated to provide sweetness equivalent to table sugar so that consumers would not perceive a difference in product sweetness and taste. 
High fructose corn syrup (HFCS) is a sweetener made from corn and can be found in numerous foods and beverages on grocery store shelves in the United States. High fructose corn syrup is composed of either 42 percent or 55 percent fructose, with the remaining sugars being primarily glucose and higher sugars. In terms of composition, high fructose corn syrup is nearly identical to table sugar (sucrose), which is composed of 50 percent fructose and 50 percent glucose. Glucose is one of the simplest forms of sugar that serves as a building block for most carbohydrates. 1 High fructose corn syrup is made from corn, a natural grain product. 2  High fructose corn syrup contains no artificial or synthetic ingredients or color additives and meets the FDA requirements for use of the term “natural.”.
One derivative of corn syrup is high fructose corn syrup, which is as sweet as sugar and is often used in soft drinks. Corn syrup may be shipped and used as a thick liquid or it may be dried to form a crystalline powder. Background. Corn syrup is one of several natural sweeteners derived from corn starch. It is used in a wide variety of food products including cookies, crackers, catsups, cereals, flavored yogurts, ice cream, preserved meats, canned fruits and vegetables, soups, beers, and many others.
Glucose-Fructose Syrup is a liquid sweetener used in the manufacturing of foods and beverages. GFS is composed of different simple sugars, mainly glucose and fructose, with varying compositions. The fructose content can range from 5% to 50%. 
Sucrose is table sugar. It is a double sugar, containing one part each of glucose (50%) and fructose (50%), chemically bound together. Enzymes in the intestine quickly and efficiently split sucrose into glucose and fructose, which are absorbed into the body as single sugars. HFCS is made from corn starch. What's the difference between table sugar (sucrose), sugars in fruits (fructose) and sugars made from corn (dextrose and high-fructose corn syrup) ...
Structural formulae of fructose (left) and glucose (right). High fructose corn syrup (HFCS) (also called glucose-fructose, isoglucose and glucose-fructose syrup) is a sweetener made from corn starch that has been processed by glucose isomerase to convert some of its glucose into fructose. 
Corn syrup is a food syrup which is made from the starch of maize (called corn in some countries) and contains varying amounts of maltose and higher oligosaccharides, depending on the grade. 1 Light corn syrup is corn syrup seasoned with vanilla flavor and salt. ) 2  Light corn syrup is clear and tastes moderately sweet. 3  Dark corn syrup is a combination of corn syrup and molasses (or Refiners' syrup), caramel color and flavor, salt, and the preservative sodium benzoate.