Sclerosing Mesenteritis. Important. It is possible that the main title of the report Sclerosing Mesenteritis is not the name you expected. Please check the synonyms listing to find the alternate name(s) and disorder subdivision(s) covered by this report. The small bowel mesentery is most often affected. The symptoms of sclerosing mesenteritis can vary greatly from one person to another and can include a variety of gastrointestinal symptoms such as abdominal pain, nausea / vomiting, bloating, loss of appetite and diarrhea or constipation.
1 Sclerosing Mesenteritis: A rare disorder that affects the lining of the digestive tract. 2  The lining of the small bowel mesentery (membrane that joins small intestine to back of abdominal wall) becomes thickened and inflamed. 3  The condition may be mild or severe enough to cause death. 
Sclerosing mesenteritis is a rare condition, its cause is unknown. It is the inflammation of the membranous tissue that surrounds and connects the small bowel (mesentery) to the abdominal wall. Symptoms include abdominal pain and possibly a small non-cancerous mass. 
Sclerosing mesenteritis is an uncommon idiopathic disorder characterised by chronic non-specific inflammation involving the adipose tissue of the bowel mesentery. 
Appointments & care. At Mayo Clinic, we take the time to listen, to find answers and to provide you the best care. Sclerosing mesenteritis occurs when the tissue (mesentery) that holds the small intestines in place becomes inflamed and forms scar tissue. Sclerosing mesenteritis is rare, and it's not clear what causes it. Sclerosing mesenteritis can cause abdominal pain, bloating and diarrhea. But some people experience no signs and symptoms and may never need treatment.
Sclerosing Mesenteritis: A rare disorder that affects the lining of the digestive tract. The lining of the small bowel mesentery (membrane that joins small intestine to back of abdominal wall) becomes thickened and inflamed. The condition may be mild or severe enough to cause death. Sclerosing Mesenteritis: Introduction. 
Idiopathic sclerosing mesenteritis (ISM) or mesenteric panniculitus is a rare disease of the small intestine, characterized by chronic inflammation and eventual fibrosis of the mesentery. It has also been called mesenteric lipodystrophy, or retractile mesenteritis. Sclerosing mesenteritis may present with no or nearly no signs or symptoms, but many people have chronic and severe pain in the abdomen as the most common chief complaint.
Sclerosing Mesenteritis. Sclerosing mesenteritis is a rare disease that affects a fold of tissue that connects the small bowel to the wall of the abdomen. This fold is called the small bowel mesentery. Inflammation and scarring (fibrosis) of the small bowel mesentery are the main features of sclerosing mesenteritis. Finding the cause has been difficult, but it is thought that patients with sclerosing mesenteritis have had abdominal surgery or trauma to the abdomen. They also may have autoimmune diseases in which the body produces an inappropriate immune response to its own tissues and substances.
INTRODUCTION. Sclerosing mesenteritis is part of a spectrum (including mesenteric lipodystrophy and mesenteric panniculitis) of idiopathic primary inflammatory and fibrotic processes that affect the mesentery. 
Summary. Sclerosing mesenteritis is a rare spectrum of disease characterized by degeneration (necrosis), inflammation and scarring (fibrosis) of fatty (adipose) tissue of the mesentery. The mesentery is a fold of tissue of the peritoneum that supports and attaches the intestines to the wall of the abdomen. The small bowel mesentery is most often affected. The symptoms of sclerosing mesenteritis can vary greatly from one person to another and can include a variety of gastrointestinal symptoms such as abdominal pain, nausea / vomiting, bloating, loss of appetite and diarrhea or constipation.