Static Stretching. Static stretching is the type of stretching where you take a muscle to its outer range, until you can feel a gentle stretch in the muscle belly, and hold it at that point. Stretches are usually held for between 20 and 60 seconds and should be pain-free. 
(March 2015). Isometric exercise or isometrics are a type of strength training in which the joint angle and muscle length do not change during contraction (compared to concentric or eccentric contractions, called dynamic/isotonic movements). Isometrics are done in static positions, rather than being dynamic through a range of motion.
Isometric Exercise: Hands on Head. In an isometric exercise, a force is applied against a resistant object, so that even though tension builds in a specific muscle, there is no movement. You can do isometric exercises to strengthen the muscles of your neck. 
How Isometric Stretching Works. Normally, the handful of fibers that stretch during an isometric contraction are not very significant. The true effectiveness of the isometric contraction occurs when a muscle that is already in a stretched position is subjected to an isometric contraction. 
Benefits of Isometric Stretching for Baseball. Isometric stretching is beneficial for baseball pitchers and players for developing superior flexibility, and increasing blood flow to muscles and ligaments that were used during exercise or throwing. Isometric Stretching Routine. 48 hours between isometric stretching routines. This is primarily because of the amount of stress that this type of stretching can put on the tendons and joints. In addition, any routine should utilize only one exercise per muscle group in any given session.
Static Stretching Technique. 1  Assume the position of a passive stretch for the desired muscle. 2  Tense the stretched muscle for 7-15 seconds (resisting against some force that will not move, like the floor or a partner). Isometric stretching is a type of static stretching (meaning it does not use motion) which involves the resistance of muscle groups through tensing of the stretched muscles.
What To Consider. Generally, isometric stretching is not the easiest thing to do. More specifically, you should give some thought to the following: 1  It requires controlled movements, and finding your flexibility limit is of major importance before actually attempting to perform stretches of this kind.
admin | June 28, 2013 | 2 Replies. Isometric stretching is a distinct type of static stretching (that is, involving no motion) which aims at increasing someone’s flexibility by executing isometric contractions of the stretched muscles. Generally, isometric stretching is not the easiest thing to do. More specifically, you should give some thought to the following: 1  It requires controlled movements, and finding your flexibility limit is of major importance before actually attempting to perform stretches of this kind.
One of the more advanced and most effective stretching techniques is called isometric stretching. Flexibility Fitness Workouts. Isometric training combines strength with flexibility. The idea behind this is that your muscles can not reach their full potential for flexibility when they are not strong enough. 
Isometric Stretching Explained. One of most effective methods for improving static passive flexibility is through the use of isometric stretching. An advanced form of flexibility training that must be prescribed with caution, it is useful for developing extreme range of motion associated with martial arts for example. Here are the general guidelines that must be followed if isometric stretching is to be beneficial... 1. Leave 48 hours between isometric stretching routines. 2. Perform only one exercise per muscle group in a session. 3. For each muscle group complete 2-5 sets of the chosen exercise. 4.