The test measures the amount of glycated hemoglobin in the blood. Glycated hemoglobin is a combination of hemoglobin (red blood cells) and sugar (glucose). Red blood cells live for approximately 3 months. Thus, the A1c test allows doctors to determine how much sugar has been in the body for the preceding 3 months by measuring the amount of glycated hemoglobin that is in the blood.
Hemoglobin cells are constantly dying and regenerating, but they have a lifespan of approximately three months. Glucose attaches (glycates) to hemoglobin, so the record of how much glucose is attached to your hemoglobin also lasts for about three months. If there is too much glucose attached to the hemoglobin cells, you will have a high A1C. Your hemoglobin will carry a “record” of last week’s high blood glucose in the form of more A1C in your blood. The glucose that was attached to the hemoglobin during the past three months will still be recorded by the test, as the cells live
Definition. A hemoglobin test measures the amount of hemoglobin in your blood. Hemoglobin is a protein in your red blood cells that carries oxygen to your body's organs and tissues and transports carbon dioxide from your organs and tissues back to your lungs. If a hemoglobin test reveals that your hemoglobin level is lower than normal, it means you have a low red blood cell count (anemia). Anemia can have many different causes, including vitamin deficiencies, bleeding and chronic diseases.
Answer: Hi Tom. Yes, the hemoglobin A1c is a measure of the average blood sugar over a three month period. And what this is, is that blood sugar attaches to the blood cells in your system and rides around with the blood cells in your system. And the higher your blood sugar, the more sugar that is attached to the red blood cells. 
Hemoglobin is the protein molecule in red blood cells that carries oxygen from the lungs to the body's tissues and returns carbon dioxide from the tissues back to the lungs. Hemoglobin is made up of four protein molecules (globulin chains) that are connected together. 
The A1C test is a blood test used to measure the average level of glucose in the blood over the last two to three months, and is used as a means of checking how well blood sugar levels are being controlled for a person with diabetes. More detail and supporting information is in the body of this article. 1  A1C is an abbreviation for glycated hemoglobin, which forms when glucose attaches to a protein in red blood cells. 2  As blood glucose levels rise, so does the percentage of glycated hemoglobin, so A1C is used to measure diabetes control.
Guide. A glycohemoglobin test, or hemoglobin A1c, is a blood test that checks the amount of sugar (glucose) bound to the hemoglobin in the red blood cells. When hemoglobin and glucose bond, a coat of sugar forms on the hemoglobin. 
The hemoglobin test is often used to check for anemia, usually along with a hematocrit or as part of a complete blood count (CBC) . The test may be used to screen for, diagnose, or monitor a number of conditions and diseases that affect red blood cells (RBCs) and/or the amount of hemoglobin in blood. A hemoglobin test may be used to: 1  Screen for, diagnose, and measure the severity of anemia (low RBCs, hemoglobin and hematocrit) or polycythemia (high RBCs, hemoglobin and hematocrit).
1 As blood glucose levels rise, so does the percentage of glycated hemoglobin, so A1C is used to measure diabetes control. 2  The test is used for both monitoring and diagnosing diabetes, and results come from a blood sample given at the doctor's clinic. More detail and supporting information is in the body of this article. 1  A1C is an abbreviation for glycated hemoglobin, which forms when glucose attaches to a protein in red blood cells. 2 
The hemoglobin A1c test, also called HbA1c, glycated hemoglobin test, or glycohemoglobin, is an important blood test that shows how well your diabetes is being controlled. 