1 On average, plan on spending $10 to $30 per day for a lower-end boarding company while a higher-class “resort” can cost upwards of $45 to $65 per day. 2  For example, the popular pet store chain PetSmart offers a service called “Pets Hotel.” Here, the prices can range anywhere from $25 to $100 per night. Dog boarding is a service that many dog owners use when going on vacation or gone for other reasons. A dog should not be left alone for more than 12 hours, so if there are times when you are not able to get home to take care of your dog, boarding him may be a viable option.
Report Abuse. Anything from 10 to 25 a night per dog in a kennel. I pay 15 per night at the kennel I use but by putting three into one large kennel I get a reduction. So you are looking at 100+ per week and the cost of kennel cough vaccine three weeks before admission and they will need proof of vaccinations being up to date. Watch the timings as if you are late collecting they charge another day. 
1 A basic dog boarding facility -- which usually has indoor kennels with cement floors attached to outdoor runs enclosed by chain-link fencing -- usually costs $12 to $26 per day. Discounts: 1  Most boarding facilities offer walks, one-on-one playtime with a staff member or group play with other dogs for $5 each and up. 2  Many boarding facilities charge extra for a bath at the end of the stay -- about $7 and up. 3  Many facilities offer grooming and training services. 4  Many facilities charge $2 or more extra per dose for 5  ... Some ...
Additional costs: 1  Boarding facilities usually offer a dedicated space, such as a kennel, room or suite, for the dog or for dogs from the same family. 2  There is a sleeping area with a bed, and sometimes access to the outdoors. Discounts: 1  Most boarding facilities offer walks, one-on-one playtime with a staff member or group play with other dogs for $5 each and up. 2  Many boarding facilities charge extra for a bath at the end of the stay -- about $7 and up. 3  Many facilities offer grooming and training services. 4  Many facilities charge $2 or more extra per dose for 5  ... Some ...
1 A very high-end boarding facility, such as a dog retreat with home-like private bungalows or an urban dog hotel -- with amenities such as rugs, real furniture, art, plasma televisions and premium food -- usually costs $40 to $110 per day. Discounts: 1  Most boarding facilities offer walks, one-on-one playtime with a staff member or group play with other dogs for $5 each and up. 2  Many boarding facilities charge extra for a bath at the end of the stay -- about $7 and up. 3  Many facilities offer grooming and training services. 4  Many facilities charge $2 or more extra per dose for 5  ... Some ...
Here, those two dogs would be $ 26 at one place, and $ 35 at the other..I have a dog sitter come for $ 20 per day, for two visits per day..so you might call around or check for any ads posted at your local pet supply shops. Also, pet supply shops often know who will dog sit..or board in their home. Answer by iluvmyfrenchbulldogs. You would have to call the kennel or boarding facility to know for sure. I pay $ 12 a day per dog for my large dogs (the largest is a Bernese Mountain Dog and the other is a Belgian Malinois) but that is because it is an indoor/outdoor boarding kennel.
Dog Kennel Cost. 1  A basic dog boarding facility -- which usually has indoor kennels with cement floors attached to outdoor runs enclosed by chain-link fencing -- usually costs $12 to $26 per day. Discounts: 1  Most boarding facilities offer walks, one-on-one playtime with a staff member or group play with other dogs for $5 each and up. 2  Many boarding facilities charge extra for a bath at the end of the stay -- about $7 and up. 3  Many facilities offer grooming and training services. 4  Many facilities charge $2 or more extra per dose for 5  ... Some ...
Answer by fosterpug. Depending on the quality that you are looking for, anywhere from $ 10 per day to $ 50 per day. If you type Dog Boarding + (your city) in GOOGLE and hit feeling lucky it should get you to a good website, or just check your yellow pages. Answer by iluvmyfrenchbulldogs. You would have to call the kennel or boarding facility to know for sure. I pay $ 12 a day per dog for my large dogs (the largest is a Bernese Mountain Dog and the other is a Belgian Malinois) but that is because it is an indoor/outdoor boarding kennel.
Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Depending on the quality that you are looking for, anywhere from $10 per day to $50 per day. If you type Dog Boarding + (your city) in GOOGLE and hit feeling lucky it should get you to a good website, or just check your yellow pages. Here, those two dogs would be $26 at one place, and $35 at the other..I have a dog sitter come for $20 per day, for two visits per day..so you might call around or check for any ads posted at your local pet supply shops. Also, pet supply shops often know who will dog sit..or board in their home