0. 6. The mastoid process is an inferior extension of the petrous temporal bone of the skull and provides a structural function as an anchor point for the large muscles of the neck. It contains multiple air cells that develop from a single main cavity (the antrum), after the age of about 2. The infective process causes inflammation of the mastoid and surrounding tissues and may lead to bony destruction. 1  Classic, or acute, mastoiditis is a rare complication of acute otitis media (AOM).
an infection of one of the mastoid bones, usually an extension of a middle ear infection. It is characterized by earache, fever, headache, and malaise. Swelling of the mastoid process often displaces the pinna anteriorly and inferiorly. Description. The mastoid is a part of the side (temporal bone) of the skull. It can be felt as a bony bump just behind and slightly above the level of the earlobe. The mastoid has been described as resembling a honeycomb of tiny partitioned-off airspaces
mandibular process mandibular prominence. mastoid process a conical projection at the base of the mastoid portion of the temporal bone. maxillary process. 1. maxillary prominence. 2. a bony process descending from the ethmoid process of the inferior nasal concha. nursing process see nursing process. odontoid process a toothlike projection of the axis that articulates with the atlas.
A purist's definition of mastoiditis includes all inflammatory processes of the mastoid air cells of the temporal bone. As the mastoid is contiguous to and an extension of the middle ear cleft, virtually every child or adult with acute otitis media (AOM) or chronic middle ear inflammatory disease has mastoiditis. Other areas of the temporal bone pneumatize similarly, including the petrous apex and the zygomatic root. The antrum, as with the mastoid air cells, is lined with respiratory epithelium that swells when infection is present.
The mastoid process is a conical prominence projecting from the undersurface of the mastoid portion of the temporal bone. It is located just behind the external acoustic meatus, and lateral to the styloid process. 
It is due to a direct extension of disease from the mastoid into the brain, through the lateral sinus, through the labyriuth, or through the inner bony wall of the mastoid process itself. Here, again, the only hope lies in early operation. The tympanic antrum, a cavity in the mastoid bone, lies behind the middle ear, with which it is connected by an opening, the aditus-ad-antrum, within the floor of which is the facial nerve. Internal to the antrum, merely seperated by a plate of bone, are the lateral or transverse sinus and the brain.
By its liability to septic infection and its proximity to the brain and other important structures the portion of the temporal bone.known as the mastoid process is of great importance. Infection spreads to cavities in the bone from the middle ear, and is always to be apprehended when this organ is infected. The tympanic antrum, a cavity in the mastoid bone, lies behind the middle ear, with which it is connected by an opening, the aditus-ad-antrum, within the floor of which is the facial nerve. Internal to the antrum, merely seperated by a plate of bone, are the lateral or transverse sinus and the brain.
Mastoiditis is a bacterial infection of the mastoid bone. The mastoid bone, which sits behind the ear, consists of air spaces that help drain the middle ear. When the mastoid cells become infected or inflamed, often as a result of an unresolved middle ear infection (otitis media), mastoiditis can develop. 