And it pleases God when we pray for others because He wants everyone to be saved and come to a knowledge of the truth (1 Tim. 2:3-4). But we have to remember that salvation is a personal choice so not even He can force someone to accept Him. However, our prayers will cause the Holy Spirit to exert a strong influence on the people we pray for, making it very difficult for them to resist.
In addition, Jesus said that we can pray for anything we want in His name and if it is within His will He will answer it. If we want a person to be saved, there are no reasons why we can’t ask God to work in that person’s life to bring about that salvation. Some people will say that the Bible never instructs us to pray for the salvation of individual people. They say that the Bible instruct us to pray for more laborers (Luke 10:2), but not for the salvation of specific people. Therefore, since these prayers and not Biblical, God will not answer them.
Many people do not believe we have the right to ask God to save another person. They would say something like, “Hey, I can’t make a decision like that for someone else. If I were to ask God to save them, it would be the same as me deciding their eternal destiny for them. Some people will say that the Bible never instructs us to pray for the salvation of individual people. They say that the Bible instruct us to pray for more laborers (Luke 10:2), but not for the salvation of specific people. Therefore, since these prayers and not Biblical, God will not answer them.
Salvation Prayer. Prayer for salvation. Learn how to effectively pray for someone to be saved. A powerful, effective prayer for salvation of others. The prayer is based on verses from the Bible, and when you pray according to the Bible, you know you are praying according to God’s will. Add the names of your unsaved friends and loved ones.
He prayed specifically, by name (“for the. ”), for a target group to be saved. • Paul’s prayer encourages me to pray, by name, for specific people whose salvation I long to see. If you have unsaved relatives and friends — and most likely you do — target them by name in your prayers to God for their salvation. • This is an illustration of a widely-targeted prayer for the salvation of many people. When I pastored a church in southern Oregon’s Rogue Valley, I was part of a weekly pastors’ prayer group that met every Thursday for 15 years to pray for souls to be saved throughout our geographical region.
It is a serious thing to say that someone is or is not saved. If you are unsure about the salvation of someone, then you should pray for that person, ask God to work in a person's life, and ask the Lord to give you wisdom. Tweet. About The Author Matt Slick is the President and Founder of the Christian Apologetics and Research Ministry. 
Yes you can. Although the person you are praying for will still have to want to be saved. I pray for people in eternity everyday, i feel that (just like god wants) souls to be saved and to be in heaven with him, we all have a second chance.
God makes it very clear in the Bible that He desires to answer our prayers. So, if we were to consistently pray for someone else’s salvation, there is a good chance that God will answer that prayer. Although that sounds great, it kind of leaves the recipient without any say in the matter. Some people will say that the Bible never instructs us to pray for the salvation of individual people. They say that the Bible instruct us to pray for more laborers (Luke 10:2), but not for the salvation of specific people. Therefore, since these prayers and not Biblical, God will not answer them.
I believe God’s word tells us He will eventually win these battles for us. His word tells us the prayer of a righteous person is powerful and effective (James 5:16), and we have a righteousness from God that comes through faith in Jesus Christ to all who believe (Romans 3:22). But we have to remember that salvation is a personal choice so not even He can force someone to accept Him. However, our prayers will cause the Holy Spirit to exert a strong influence on the people we pray for, making it very difficult for them to resist.
If I don't pray for their salvation, but pray that God would open my mind and the minds of other saints in a way that would allow the Gospel to be preached with authoritative it will be equally effective. Prayer changes our hearts to be in line with God's will as we commune with Him in it. If I pray for someone it does not mean God will force salvation upon them because that would violate their free will. God desires but does not force all to be saved.