Foam Layer. Giving FiberFloor the cushioning feeling of carpet is the foam layer. It also provides a layer of insulation to make the floor feel warmer on your feet. The foam is treated with AquaGuard, a product to protect the flooring from mold growth. It is made by the Canadian flooring manufacturer Tarkett. It is certified across north America for a low rating of volatile organic compounds (VOC) in its adhesives and paints. VOC's can adversely affect air quality in your house.
Shares & Saves. Save. Fiber flooring is a sheet vinyl flooring usually installed without adhesive as a floating floor. Fiber flooring is made from a blend of vinyl and fiberglass, giving it the thick, cushion-y feel of carpet and the easy to clean, waterproof convenience of vinyl. 
ALL THE DETAILS. There’s so much to love about Tarkett® FiberFloor®. We’ve organized every descriptive detail – from pattern, color and design, to item and warranty numbers – in this simple, informative guide. Just as we protect our floors from the rigors of everyday, we take equal care in protecting our customers. The Tarkett® Consumer Protection Plan outlines the details of our FiberFloor® warranties, as well as specific floor care and maintenance information.
FiberFloor combines the benefits of carpet, vinyl and laminate flooring all in one product. It also boasts over 200 designs in three collections, colors and textures, which include impressive faux stones, wood grains and rustic tiles. Debbie Travis, international television host and renovation expert, recently featured the new Tarkett FiberFloor product on her show. Consumer Digest ‘Best Buy’ awarded the new FiberFloor its prestigious Consumer Digest Best Buy Honor.
FiberFloor is a part of our iSelect system, which groups all our Tarkett flooring options into six beautiful, easy-to-live-with color families, allowing you to coordinate across flooring types, from room-to-room, throughout your entire house. 
The first step toward enjoying Tarkett® FiberFloor® is to install it. This complete reference manual is ideal for both beginners and professionals. It includes the technical details and proper procedures necessary to ensure stress-free installation and beautiful results. Just as we protect our floors from the rigors of everyday, we take equal care in protecting our customers. The Tarkett® Consumer Protection Plan outlines the details of our FiberFloor® warranties, as well as specific floor care and maintenance information.
FiberFloor is a new kind of resilient flooring. New to North America, but popular in Europe for over a decade. FiberFloor combines a cushiony feel with carefree maintenance and exceptional durability. A unique balanced construction allows the floor to lay flat and stay flat. Just as we protect our floors from the rigors of everyday, we take equal care in protecting our customers. The Tarkett® Consumer Protection Plan outlines the details of our FiberFloor® warranties, as well as specific floor care and maintenance information.
Deb. * Tarkett FiberFloor, is a new category in resilient flooring offering a unique level of decorating convenience combining the comfort of carpet with the easy maintenance of resilient flooring. With its glueless application you can change your floor just as quickly as you change your decorating style.
Tarkett FiberFloor-Tarkett Fiber Floor-Vinyl Flooring. Tarkett Fiberfloor luxury vinyl flooring is a high quality and highly durable vinyl flooring. With five separate layers engineered to give superior finish, wear, warmth, and comfort it is only made better by its high flexibility and easy installation. American Carpet Wholesalers is THE source for Tarket Fiberfloor with the Fiberfloor Protection System for life-resistant floors.
Parquet floor image by Einar Bog from Fotolia.com. FiberFloor is a new type of flooring that combines the quick installation of laminate, the cushion of carpet and the maintenance of vinyl. It is made by the Canadian flooring manufacturer Tarkett. It is certified across north America for a low rating of volatile organic compounds (VOC) in its adhesives and paints. VOC's can adversely affect air quality in your house.