The kinetic energy of your body when it is in motion, of loose objects in the car, and of the car itself all increase with weight and the square of your speed so that. If you increase your speed from 10 mph to 20 mph, you're dealing with 4 times the amount of kinetic energy. Braking to a stop converts kinetic energy into heat energy in your brakes through friction. If you and your vehicle are involved in a collision, the kinetic energy is still converted into heat through friction, but not in your brakes.
A tripling of the speed would increase the stopping distance by a factor of nine. And a quadrupling of the speed would increase the stopping distance by a factor of 16. The stopping distance is proportional to the square of the speed of the vehicle. This mathematical relationship between initial speed and stopping distance is depicted in the animation below. Three cars with identical braking systems are traveling three different speeds. 0.5*m*v 2 = F*d. The above equation shows that the stopping distance (d) is proportional to the square of the speed (v 2). And that's exactly what the driver's education course taught you. And now you know: it's PHYSICS ! For more information on physical descriptions of motion, visit The Physics Classroom Tutorial.
This force is the energy developed by an object while it's in motion.In very simple terms, the law of kinetic energy means that when you double your speed, the kinetic energy of your car is four times as great! And that means the braking distance is four times as great. Friction is critically affected by your brakes, tires, the road surface, and speed. The brakes on your car have to be strong enough to lock the wheels into a skid. Your tires must have enough tread to create good traction. Traction is the friction of gripping power of the tire as it moves on the roadway.
How does it relate to speed? The kinetic energy of a moving vehicle is a function of its mass and velocity squared and this energy must be absorbed in a collision by friction, heat, and the damage suffered by the vehicle as a result of the crash.
Last Updated: 5/21/11. Assuming proper operation of the brakes on the vehicle, the minimum stopping distance for a vehicle is determined by the effective coefficient of friction between the tires and the road, and the driver's reaction time in a braking situation. 
Kinetic Energy = 0.5 * mass * velocity^2 Suppose that the car takes a distance d to stop, and that the brakes exert a stopping force F Work done by this force to stop the car = force * distance = F * d The Kinetic Energy is equal to the work done to stop. In order to stop a car, the kinetic energy of the moving mass of the car must be converted to heat by friction between the brake pads and the brake discs or drums and/or friction between the tires and the road.
Braking and Energy. Braking to a stop converts kinetic energy into heat energy in your brakes through friction. If you and your vehicle are involved in a collision, the kinetic energy is still converted into heat through friction, but not in your brakes.
A vehicle's energy of motion is proportional to the square of its increased speed. When the vehicle's speed doubles, it needs about four times the distance to stop. When the vehicle's speed triples, it needs about nine times the distance to stop. Friction is critically affected by your brakes, tires, the road surface, and speed. The brakes on your car have to be strong enough to lock the wheels into a skid. Your tires must have enough tread to create good traction. Traction is the friction of gripping power of the tire as it moves on the roadway.
1 A vehicle’s energy of motion is proportional to the square of its increased speed. 2  For example: 3  When the speed of a vehicle doubles, it needs about four times the distance to stop. 4  When the speed of a vehicle triples, it needs about nine times the distance to stop. We can lose this completely at point B and stop. At 35mph our kinetic energy will be 35 X 35 = 1225. This is an increase of 1/3 for a small 5mph increase in speed. We can lose a maximum of 900 unitis of energy at point B so pass it with the remaining (1225 – 900) 325 units of energy.
Assuming proper operation of the brakes, the minimum stopping distance for an automobile is determined by the effective coefficient of friction between the tires and the road. The friction force of the road must do enough work on the car to reduce its kinetic energy to zero (work-energy principle). 