Three Parts: Learning about the Wicca Craft Becoming a Wiccan Using Wicca in Everyday Life. Also known as “The Old Religion” and “The Craft,” Wicca is a religion with its own practices, tenets and beliefs rooted in pagan traditions. 3. Learn what Wicca is not. Wicca is not anti-Christian, nor is it against any other religion. It is sometimes known as pre-Christian, since many of its beliefs are rooted in pagan practices of honoring the earth, honoring life and creation, and honoring the Goddess.
Wicken. Wickens are different than witches to get one thing straight. witches normally use potions,spells, chants,etc. Wicken's use what's called the third eye sense, they feel whats around them and can sometimes predict future events or someone you will meet in the future; with that beautiful third eye sense they have. Boy: I'm a wicken. Girl: Really.
Wicca Religion. Wicca Religion-The Basics. Wicca is a neo-pagan, earth-centered religion that has its modern origins in the teaching and practice of the original English Wiccan, Gerald Gardner (1884-1964). Today, Wicca is experiencing dramatic growth as teens reject what they perceive as Christian paternalism, homophobia, and insensitivity to the environment. 
Wicca is a tradition of Witchcraft that was brought to the public by Gerald Gardner in the 1950s. There is a great deal of debate among the Pagan community about whether or not Wicca is truly the same form of Witchcraft that the ancients practiced. Regardless, many people use the terms Wicca and Witchcraft interchangeably. Paganism is an umbrella term used to apply to a number of different earth-based faiths. Wicca falls under that heading, although not all Pagans are Wiccan.
Answer: Wicca is a neo-pagan religion that has been growing in popularity and acceptance in the United States and Europe. There are many websites and books claiming to teach “real” Wicca, but the truth is, there is no consensus among Wiccans as to what the religion is all about. The reason for this is that Wicca, as it is practiced now, is only about 50 years old. Wicca is a belief system that Briton Gerald Gardner cobbled together in the 1940s and 1950s from a variety of religious traditions and beliefs as well as Freemason rituals.
1 This is what separates Wicca from Witchcraft. 2  Wiccan holidays consist of Sabbats, or solar holidays; and Esbats, lunar holidays. 3  There are eight in one year, including Yule, Ostara, Midsummer, Mabon, Imbolc, Beltane, Lughnasadh, and Samhain. 4  Wiccans call this The Wheel of the Year. 1 What is also common is belief in the God and Goddess as well as particular deities from a certain pantheon (i.e: Greek, Norse, Celtic, Egyptian, Hindu). 2  This is what separates Wicca from Witchcraft. 3
The article below describes how Wicca draws from the Old Traditions of Witchcraft. While this is true, we would simply like to clarify that Witchcraft and Wicca, while simular in many respects, are not the same. One can be a Witch, without being a Wiccan, just as a person can be a Christian, without being a Baptist. Wicca is a recognized religion, while Witchcraft itself is not considered a religion. Wiccan practice tolerance and acceptance toward all other religions as long as those faiths do not persecute others or violate the tenant of Harm None.. What Witchcraft is not: More information about Witchcraft is available in the Frequently Asked Questions section, but in the interim, here are the main points.
Learn what Wiccan beliefs are. Wicca is based on a belief of the Goddess at the center of all life and creation. Some versions of Wicca weigh goddesses and gods equally, as there is a general sense in Wicca to believe in duality or balance in the universe. 3. Learn what Wicca is not. Wicca is not anti-Christian, nor is it against any other religion. It is sometimes known as pre-Christian, since many of its beliefs are rooted in pagan practices of honoring the earth, honoring life and creation, and honoring the Goddess.
Definition of WICKEN. variant of wiggen. ADVERTISEMENT. This word doesn't usually appear in our free dictionary, but the definition from our premium Unabridged Dictionary is offered here on a limited basis. 