About CVL. CDSL Ventures Limited (CVL) is a wholly owned subsidiary of Central Depository Services (India) Limited (CDSL), a leading securities depository in the country. CVL derives its confidence from its team, which has a 'Securities Market Domain Expertise'. 
Share this on your social network: The National Securities Depository Ltd (NSDL) and the Central Depository Services India Ltd (CDSL) are both share depositories in India. What they do is just like a bank. While a bank holds your cash and fixed deposits, they hold shares, debentures, bonds etc., for all shareholders in the electronic form. The other difference between NSDL and CDSL is the former began operations must before and was the pioneer depository in the country. The CDSL was established much after that. Both the depositories charge a settlement fee for debit instructions for the client. One needs to compare the charges between the depositories.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Central Depository Services Limited (CDSL) , is the second Indian central securities depository based in Mumbai. Its main function is the holding securities either in certificated or uncertificated (dematerialized) form, to enable book entry transfer of securities
The enactment of this act paved the way for the establishment of NSDL and CDSL. The National Securities Depository Limited (NSDL) was the first depository in India. It was registered by SEBI on 7 th June 1996, as the very first Depository to facilitate trading and settlement of securities in Demat form. They both are depositories that hold various securities like shares in electronic form. There is no major difference between the two; however there is small difference in their charges and their source of work.
National Securities Depository Limited (NSDL) is an Indian central securities depository based in Mumbai. It was established on 8 November 1996 as the first electronic securities depository in India with national coverage based on a suggestion by a national institution responsible for the economic development of India. In the depository system, securities are held in depository accounts, which are similar to holding funds in bank accounts. Transfer of ownership of securities is done through simple account transfers.
Best Answer: NSDL is National Securities Depository Limited-the largest depository of Indian stocks. Trades done is NSE-National Stock Exchange are linked directly to NSDL. CDSL is Central Depository Securities Ltd-Trades done is BSE-Bombay Stock Exchange are linked directly to CDSL. You can trade in BSE or NSE using HDFC Securities and can link HDFC Securities account to either NSDL or CDSL or both. Regards. HDFC Securities is not handling CDSL account. I had personal experience with HDFC Bank. After opening the DEMAT account, I had given all my physical holding share to be convert to demat form. But they had done whatever shares listed in NSDL and not the shares listed in CDSL.
Central Depository Services Limited (CDSL) is the second Indian central securities depository. It is based in Mumbai. Its main function is the holding securities either in certificated or un-certificated i.e. dematerialized form; it helps to enable the book entry transfer of securities. They both are depositories that hold various securities like shares in electronic form. There is no major difference between the two; however there is small difference in their charges and their source of work.
CDSL (Consumer Digital Subscriber Line) is a version of Digital Subscriber Line (DSL) service, trademarked by Rockwell Corp., that is somewhat slower than Asymmetric DSL (ADSL) - up to 1 Mbps downstream, probably less upstream-and has the advantage that a splitter does not need to be installed at the user's end. In this exclusive pocket guide, dive into the unified network pool with top networking experts. Explore important management tools, key features, and vendor approaches as well as the pros and cons of premises vs. provider-based network management systems.