Lyme Disease-Prevention and Treatment. Lyme disease is caused by the bacterium Borrelia burgdorferi, which is transmitted to humans through the bite of an infected deer tick. Deer ticks reside on grasses and shrubs in fields and wooded areas that are home to both deer and white-footed mice. 
Recommend on Facebook Tweet ShareCompartir. Lyme disease is caused by the bacterium Borrelia burgdorferi and is transmitted to humans through the bite of infected blacklegged ticks. Typical symptoms include fever, headache, fatigue, and a characteristic skin rash called erythema migrans. 
Question Stats: Lyme disease is caused by a bacterium transmitted to humans by deer ticks. Generally deer ticks pick up the bacterium while in the larval stage from feeding on infected whitefooted mice. However, certain other species on which the larvae feed do not harbor the bacterium. 
Question Stats: Lyme disease is caused by a bacterium transmitted to humans by deer ticks. Generally, deer ticks pick up the bacterium while in the larval stage by feeding on infected white-footed mice. However, certain other species on which the larvae feed do not harbor the bacterium. After the first sentence (Lyme disease is caused by a bacterium transmitted to humans by deer ticks), each subsequent mention of bacterium is preceded by the, meaning he is referring to the specific bacterium mentioned in the first sentence. His argument/conclusion is regarding Lyme disease bacterium. Now..
Woodticks. Causing Lyme Disease Worldwide! Lyme disease is caused by the bacterium Borrelia burgdorferi and is transmitted to humans through the bite of infected woodticks also called 'deer ticks'. Typical symptoms include fever, headache, fatigue, and a characteristic skin rash called erythema migrans. 
Description and Distribution. Lyme disease is an illness caused by a spirochete bacterium (Borrelia burgdorferi). This disease is transmitted to people and animals primarily by the bite of the black-legged tick, Ixodes scapularis. In 1975, Lyme disease was first recognized in the United States in children from Lyme, Connecticut. 
Recommend on Facebook Tweet ShareCompartir. The Lyme disease bacterium, Borrelia burgdorferi, is spread through the bite of infected ticks. The blacklegged tick (or deer tick, Ixodes scapularis) spreads the disease in the northeastern, mid-Atlantic, and north-central United States. 