a type of in vivo exposure therapy wherein patient are actively involved parties engaged in a 3-D computer-produced interactive setting which permits them a feeling of actual existence in circumstances correlated to their presenting dilemmas.
One of the keys to effective virtual reality treatment is presence, or making the user feel completely immersed in the virtual world, says Brenda Wiederhold, PhD, a psychologist and the executive director of the Virtual Reality Medical Center in California.
We recently reviewed research on VR in anxiety disorders, and our conclusions are more mod-est. 6 Few studies have been published in which virtual reality exposure therapy (VRET) is compared toexposure in vivo, the golden standard for treatment of phobias to date.
Virtual reality exposure therapy (VRET) is a type of treatment that uses realistic fake aversive stimuli to increase stress resilience and control negative symptoms.
virtual reality exposure therapy. Psychiatry An exposure therapy using artificial or computer-generated sensory experiences, which may be effective for treating phobic disorders. See Phobic disorder.
Virtual Reality Exposure involves exposing the patient to a virtual environment containing the feared stimulus in place of taking the patient into a real environment or having the patient imagine the stimulus. The real environment can be unpredictable and in-vivo exposure therapy leaves much to chance.
Exposure therapy is conducted by exposing the subject to one or more specific stimuli that are causing abnormal reactions for the subject in normal life [OVEa00]. An example of this is exposing a patient suffering from fear of spiders to one or more spiders.
A controlled study of virtual reality. exposure therapy for the fear of ﬂying. Journal of Consulting and Clinical Psychology, 68, 1020–1026. Rothbaum, B. O., Hodges, L. F., Kooper, R., Opdyke, D., Williford, J. S., & North, M. (1995).
The Virtual Reality (VR) Treatment Program at the Duke Faculty Practice offers a new human-computer interaction form of therapy for individuals with anxiety disorders due to fear of heights, elevators, thunderstorms, public speaking and flying.
Virtual reality exposure (VRE) therapy for anxiety disorders, such as phobias, provides therapists with the ability to connect the senses of a patient with a feared stimulus, producing a controlled environment that is convenient for the therapist/researcher to treat the subject’s reaction with subjective severity.