The Oneida (Onyota'a:ka or Onayotekaonotyu, meaning the People of the Upright Stone, or standing stone, Thwahru·thwahrù nęʼ In) tuscarora are A Native american tribe And First nations. Band they are one of the five founding nations of The Iroquois confederacy in the area of Upstate New, york particularly near The Great. lakes The name Oneida is derived from the English mispronunciation of Onyota'a:ka, the people's name for themselves. Onyota'a:ka means People of the Standing Stone. This identity is based on an ancient legend.
The On yote a ka (Oneida Tribe of Indians of Wisconsin) is a member of the Iroquois Confederacy, indigenous to central New York state. The Oneida Tribe is a federally recognized Indian Nation of 14,533 members, one-third of whom live on or near the 65,000 acre semi-rural reservation. The Oneida Indian Reservation was established by the Oneida Treaty of 1838 (7 Stat. 566, Feb. 3, 1838). This is my unofficial effort to provide basic information about the Oneida Nation of Wisconsin (you can use either Oneida-nsn.gov/ or OneidaNation.org, a Native American group near Appleton, Wisconsin.
Iroquois wampum belt Yes, the Oneida tribe was one of the original members of the Iroquois Confederacy, or Kanonsionni in their own language (league of clans.) The other member nations were the Mohawk, the Seneca, the Cayuga, and the Onondaga. Later a sixth tribe, the Tuscarora, joined the confederacy. 
It bears the great tree of the Oneida in the center and pictured upon it are three clan totems, a wolf, bear and turtle. The tree is topped by an eagle with wings outstretched. The eagle is the national bird of the United States and the Iroquois. The Oneida or Onyotaa:ka, The People of the Standing Stone have lived in their country for more than 10,000 years. They began as most cultures do: gatherers and hunters. Further development led to the permanent settlements of villages.
Today the Oneida Indian Nation owns tribal land in Verona, Oneida, and Canastota, New York, on which it operates a number of businesses. These include a resort with a Class III gambling casino. On May 8, 2009, Anthony Picente, Oneida County Executive, announced a pact between Oneida County and the Oneida Indian Nation. The Oneida County Board of Legislators and the State legislature must approve this pact within the next 60 days.
The Oneida Nation or Oneida Indian Nation (hereinafter referred to as OIN) is a federally recognized tribe of Oneida people. The tribe is headquartered in New York, where the tribe originated and held its historic territory long before European colonialism. On May 8, 2009, Anthony Picente, Oneida County Executive, announced a pact between Oneida County and the Oneida Indian Nation. The Oneida County Board of Legislators and the State legislature must approve this pact within the next 60 days.
The Oneida (Onyota'a:ka or Onayotekaonotyu, meaning the People of the Upright Stone, or standing stone, Thwahru·thwahrù nęʼ In) tuscarora are A Native american tribe And First nations. band The name Oneida is derived from the English mispronunciation of Onyota'a:ka, the people's name for themselves. Onyota'a:ka means People of the Standing Stone. This identity is based on an ancient legend.
Like the Mohawk, the Oneida are divided into the bear, turtle and wolf clans. Originally settled in the area later called central New York, they were nestled around Oneida Lake and Oneida County. The Oneida sided with the United States in the American Revolution and aided George Washington at Valley Forge in 1777. 
Today the Oneida have four nationally recognized nations: Oneida Indian Nation in New York, an Oneida Nation of Wisconsin, in and around Green Bay, Wisconsin in the United States; and two in Ontario, Canada: Oneida at Six Nations of the Grand River and Oneida Nation of the Thames in Southwold. The name Oneida is derived from the English mispronunciation of Onyota'a:ka, the people's name for themselves. Onyota'a:ka means People of the Standing Stone. This identity is based on an ancient legend.
The Wisconsin Oneida are an Iroquoian-speaking Indian tribe currently residing on a reservation in northeastern Wisconsin near Green Bay. They originally came from upstate New York. The Seneca, Cayuga, Onondaga, Oneida, Mohawk, and Tuscarora make up the Six Nations League of the Iroquois. 