In a large skillet, heat the oil over high heat. Add the mushrooms. Do not move the mushrooms until they have caramelized on the bottom. If you toss them too soon, they will release their liquid and begin to steam. When the bottoms are caramelized, toss them and continue to cook for about 5 minutes. 
How to Saute Mushrooms. In a large skillet heat oil or butter over medium-high heat. When the oil or melted butter is hot, add the mushrooms. You should hear a sizzle. If the fat isn't hot enough, the mushrooms will start to water out and steam instead of saute. Cook the mushrooms for 4 to 5 minutes or until tender and lightly browned, stirring occasionally with a heatproof spatula or wooden spoon. How to Saute Mushrooms. Sauteing mushrooms sears the outsides to a lovely and flavorful brown while keeping the insides juicy. Learn the secret for cooking mushrooms perfectly and five simple ways to savor them.
Preparation. Heat oil in a medium skillet over medium heat. Add mushrooms and cook, tossing occasionally, until tender and golden brown, 8–10 minutes. Add 2 tablespoons water to skillet and cook, tossing mushrooms occasionally, until water is evaporated and mushrooms are tender, about 2 minutes longer. Transfer mushrooms to a medium bowl and toss with teriyaki sauce. DO AHEAD: Mushrooms can be made 5 days ahead; cover and chill.
1 Melt butter over medium heat in a large pan. 2  Add garlic and saute for 2 minutes. 3  Add sliced mushrooms, stir to coat, and cook for about 5 minutes. 4  Drizzle soy sauce into the mushrooms. 5  Sprinkle with garlic powder and black pepper. 1 Add sliced mushrooms, stir to coat, and cook for about 5 minutes. 2  Drizzle soy sauce into the mushrooms. 3  Sprinkle with garlic powder and black pepper. 4  Continue cooking over medium heat for about 10 minutes or until desired doneness is achieved. 5  Remove from pan and serve.
1 Add garlic and saute for 2 minutes. 2  Add sliced mushrooms, stir to coat, and cook for about 5 minutes. 3  Drizzle soy sauce into the mushrooms. 4  Sprinkle with garlic powder and black pepper. 5  Continue cooking over medium heat for about 10 minutes or until desired doneness is achieved. 6  Remove from pan and serve. 1 Add sliced mushrooms, stir to coat, and cook for about 5 minutes. 2  Drizzle soy sauce into the mushrooms. 3  Sprinkle with garlic powder and black pepper. 4  Continue cooking over medium heat for about 10 minutes or until desired doneness is achieved. 5
1 Preheat oven to 375°F. 2 Finely chop the mushroom stems. Heat 1 tablespoon butter in a small frying pan over medium-high heat. Saute sauté the chopped mushroom stems and the shallots for-4 5, minutes stirring. Often add the garlic and walnuts and sprinkle with. salt 
Sauteing is a quick, versatile way to cook any kind of mushroom, including basic button, cremini, stemmed shiitake, portobello, and morel mushrooms -- or better yet, a mix of your favorites. While the cooking process only takes minutes, there are a few tips that assure the tastiest results. How to Saute Mushrooms. Sauteing mushrooms sears the outsides to a lovely and flavorful brown while keeping the insides juicy. Learn the secret for cooking mushrooms perfectly and five simple ways to savor them.
Cook mushrooms in a pan with a lot of surface area. You want to be able to spread the mushrooms out in a single layer to maximize their contact with the hot pan and allow moisture to evaporate quickly. A skillet or saute sauté pan is. best Cooking mushrooms concentrates their flavor and brings out notes of sweet earthiness from the Maillard reaction taking place. However, their high moisture content prevents mushrooms from caramelizing easily or quickly. The trick is to cook mushrooms slowly until they release all their moisture.
1. Prepare the Mushrooms: Clean the mushrooms by rubbing the dirt off with a paper towel or rinsing them quickly under running water. Slice, quarter, or mince your mushrooms, as desired or instructed in your recipe. 2. Cook to Release Moisture: Heat a few teaspoons of butter or oil in a skillet over medium heat. Add the mushrooms and a pinch of salt, and stir to evenly coat the mushrooms with butter. You should hear the mushrooms sizzling. Cooking mushrooms concentrates their flavor and brings out notes of sweet earthiness from the Maillard reaction taking place. However, their high moisture content prevents mushrooms from caramelizing easily or quickly. The trick is to cook mushrooms slowly until they release all their moisture.