Symptoms of arachnoiditis. Arachnoiditis has no consistent pattern of symptoms, but in many people it affects the nerves connecting to the lower back and legs. The most common symptom is pain, but arachnoiditis can also cause: 1  Tingling, numbness or weakness in the legs. 2  Sensations that may feel like insects crawling on the skin or water trickling down the leg. 3  Severe shooting pain that can be similar to an electric shock sensation.
Brief Synopsis: Arachnoiditis-A pain disorder caused by inflammation of the arachnoid, a membrane that surrounds and protects nerves in the spinal cord. A number of people with arachnoiditis are unable to work and experience significant disability because they are in constant pain.. Arachnoiditis Diagnosis. The disorder is characterized by severe stinging, burning pain and neurological issues. Arachnoiditis has no consistent pattern of symptoms, yet in many people it affects the nerves connecting to the lower back and legs.
Arachnoiditis of the lumbar spine can also be caused by spinal cord trauma, infection of the spinal cord, inflammation, and even surgery. If there is a larger dural tear during surgery, there is a chance of arachnoiditis. Arachnoiditis is caused by a number of conditions. Arachnoiditis was more common in the 1970s and early 1980s when radiologists used an older type of oil based myelogram dye. This dye was used back then to visualize the spinal canal to look for canal compression and disc herniations.
Arachnoiditis can be caused by the compression of spinal stenosis associated with degenerative spondylolysthesis (see section on this website). When an individual experiences back pain in the L4-L5, degenerative spondylolysthesis can often be the condition leading to the inflammation. Arachnoiditis is caused by a number of conditions. Arachnoiditis was more common in the 1970s and early 1980s when radiologists used an older type of oil based myelogram dye. This dye was used back then to visualize the spinal canal to look for canal compression and disc herniations.
Arachnoiditis is a pain disorder caused by the inflammation of the arachnoid, one of the membranes that surround and protect the nerves of the spinal cord. It is characterized by severe stinging, burning pain , and neurological problems. home neurology center neurology a-z list arachnoiditis index arachnoiditis article. Arachnoiditis has no consistent pattern of symptoms, but in many people it affects the nerves connecting to the lower back and legs. The most common symptom is pain; but, arachnoiditis can also cause:
Font Size. A. A. A. Arachnoiditis is a pain disorder caused by the inflammation of the arachnoid, one of the membranes that surrounds and protects the nerves of the spinal cord. It is characterized by severe stinging, burning pain, and neurological problems. The most common symptom is pain, but arachnoiditis can also cause: 1  Tingling, numbness, or weakness in the legs. 2  Sensations that may feel like insects crawling on the skin or water trickling down the leg. 3  Severe shooting pain that can be similar to an electric shock sensation.
Treatment options for arachnoiditis are similar to those for other chronic pain conditions. Most treatments focus on relieving pain and improving symptoms that impair daily activities. Often, health care professionals recommend a program of pain management, physiotherapy, exercise, and psychotherapy. 
General Discussion. Arachnoiditis is a disease characterized by an acute inflammatory stage that occurs in the dura (exterior) and the arachnoid (interior), two of the three membranes that cover and protect the brain, the spinal cord and the nerve roots. There are numerous causes of arachnoiditis: a)Direct mechanical injuries (dural cut/tear) caused by surgical interventions, especially repeat spinal operations, after fusions or minimally invasive procedures requiring corrective surgeries.
The predominant symptom of arachnoiditis is chronic and persistent pain in the lower back, lower limbs or, in severe cases, throughout the entire body. Other symptoms may include: 1  Tingling, numbness, or weakness in the legs. 2  Bizarre sensations such as insects crawling on the skin or water trickling down the leg. There are 3 main causes of arachnoiditis: 1  Trauma/surgery-induced. 2  Arachnoiditis has long been recognized as a rare complication of spinal surgery (particularly after multiple or complex surgeries) or trauma to the spine.
Arachnoiditis describes a pain disorder caused by the inflammation of the arachnoid, one of the membranes that surround and protect the nerves of the spinal cord. If arachnoiditis begins to interfere with the function of one or more of these nerves, it can cause a number of symptoms, including numbness, tingling, and a characteristic stinging and burning pain in the lower back or legs.