A RealAge answered. How long you will need to use teeth whitening trays depends on the stains you are trying to bleach and how white you want your teeth to become. On average, you wear trays for a few hours each day for one to two weeks. But some people with severe stains may need to wear the trays for longer than that. How long you will need to use teeth whitening trays depends on the stains you are trying to bleach and how white you want your teeth to become
After you have been given your whitening trays and your Opalescence whitening gel, you will be ready to start working towards a brighter smile! You should use your trays with the gel at least 4-8 hours every day for the first 2-6 weeks. We recommend for you to wear your trays with the gel while sleeping at night.
You should not eat or drink while wearing the trays, and up to a half hour after taking them out. How long should I wear the trays each day? The 35% gel is used a maximum of 30 minutes per day. If you experience tooth sensitivity, you may want to bleach for 5-10 minutes a day temporarily. Always error on the side of caution. However, sensitivity is related to how long the bleaching gel is in contact with the teeth and gums, regardless of the strength. Since 16% bleaching gel must be used longer per day to achieve the same results (and 10% gel even more so), 22% or 35% gel becomes the better choice for sensitivity.
Day White: The Day White teeth whitening at home system is ideal for patients that clench their teeth or are uncomfortable with overnight tooth bleaching trays. For optimal results, tooth whitening trays should be worn twice a day for 30 minutes. Nite White (Night White): For patients wanting to wake up to a whiter smile, the Nite White system requires teeth bleaching trays to be worn nightly for a set period of time.
Unless you have severely stained teeth (ex. Tetracycline stained teeth), you should reach a very desirable shade after bleaching for 4-6 weeks. We recommend that you use your trays for 1-3 days in a row, once every 6 months, to maintain your new bright smile. Try not to consume food and drinks that stain your teeth, such as berries, cola, tea, coffee, etc. You should use your trays with the gel at least 4-8 hours every day for the first 2-6 weeks. We recommend for you to wear your trays with the gel while sleeping at night.
Systems that utilize a 10% carbamide peroxide whitening gel and custom-made bleaching trays (the type of system typically dispensed by dentists, and the one referred to on our pages) typically call for: 1  Once-a-day treatments. 2  With each session lasting 2 to 4 hours, or possibly over night. The total amount of time that's needed for a case can be reduced by either: 1  Using a higher-concentration whitener. - 2  Most manufactures make their product in a range of concentrations. 3  We've seen carbamide peroxide products ranging from 10 to 44%. 4  Maximizing the length of your treatment sessions.
How long do you leave in bleach trays? I have bought 22% Carbamide Peroxide Gel tubes and I was wondering, how long are you suppoposed to leave the trays on for that kind of concentration? 
The average person with light to moderate stains should use the product daily for 4-7 days (1-3 hours per day) before all stains have been removed from the surface of their tooth's enamel. Those with more severe stains may need to use the teeth whitening gel and trays daily for as long as 10-14 days. For UNITED STATES customers the 30 days starts with the date we ship your teeth whitening tray creation kit. If within 30 days of that date you decide you are dissatisfied all you must do is return your trays to the address found on the contact page.