The DNC's rules for next year's convention initially called for a total of 4,483 delegates, with a majority – 2,242 – needed to win the presidential nomination. If Clinton has more than 440 pledges, she is about 20 per cent of the way to victory. CATBIRD SEAT: Clinton may have as many as 440 'superdelegates' already committed to nominating her for the presidency – about one-fifth of what she will need – before a single vote is cast.
Hillary Clinton has already secured the support of one-fifth of the number of Democratic National Convention delegates that she will need in order to win her party's presidential nomination, it emerged on Friday. CATBIRD SEAT: Clinton may have as many as 440 'superdelegates' already committed to nominating her for the presidency – about one-fifth of what she will need – before a single vote is cast.
At the Democratic National Committee meeting in Minneapolis, where Clinton spoke on Friday, senior Clinton campaign officials are claiming that she has already secured one-fifth of the pledges needed to win the Democratic presidential nomination. “This is really about how you put the numbers together to secure the nomination. As some of you might recall, in 2008 I got a lot of votes but I didn’t get enough delegates. And so I think it’s understandable that my focus is going to be on delegates as well as votes this time,” she said.
Her campaign's aides told Bloomberg that she has commitments from about 130 superdelegates already, more than five months before results from the primary contests in Iowa, New Hampshire and South Carolina will set the tone for the ensuing state-by-state battles. CATBIRD SEAT: Clinton may have as many as 440 'superdelegates' already committed to nominating her for the presidency – about one-fifth of what she will need – before a single vote is cast.
Final numbers are still in flux, but current estimates peg the total number of delegates to next summer’s presidential nominating convention at about 4,491, meaning that a candidate would need 2,246 to win. “This is really about how you put the numbers together to secure the nomination. As some of you might recall, in 2008 I got a lot of votes but I didn’t get enough delegates. And so I think it’s understandable that my focus is going to be on delegates as well as votes this time,” she said.
The 2008 Democratic presidential primaries were the process by which the Democratic Party chose its nominee for President of the United States in the 2008 U.S. presidential election. Senator Barack Obama of Illinois won and became the party's nominee. See also: Results of the 2008 Democratic Party presidential primaries, Barack Obama presidential campaign, 2008, Hillary Clinton presidential campaign, 2008 and Democratic Party (United States) presidential debates, 2008.
Obama was nominated on the first ballot, at the August convention. He went on to win the general election, and became the 44th President of the United States on January 20, 2009. Clinton went on to serve as Obama's Secretary of State for his first term. See also: Results of the 2008 Democratic Party presidential primaries, Barack Obama presidential campaign, 2008, Hillary Clinton presidential campaign, 2008 and Democratic Party (United States) presidential debates, 2008.
The goal of the process was to elect the majority of the 4,233 delegates to the 2008 Democratic National Convention, which was held from Monday, August 25, through Thursday, August 28, 2008, in Denver, Colorado. See also: Results of the 2008 Democratic Party presidential primaries, Barack Obama presidential campaign, 2008, Hillary Clinton presidential campaign, 2008 and Democratic Party (United States) presidential debates, 2008.
Hillary has about one-fifth of the delegates she'll need for the Democratic nomination locked in – five months before the first primary vote is cast. CATBIRD SEAT: Clinton may have as many as 440 'superdelegates' already committed to nominating her for the presidency – about one-fifth of what she will need – before a single vote is cast.