Collars that repel ticks are an additional preventive you can use, though they are mainly only useful for protecting the neck and head from ticks. The tick collar needs to make contact with your dog’s skin in order to transfer the chemicals onto the dog’s fur and skin. 
The best way to prevent ticks from attaching to your dog is by the regular use of tick control products. Your veterinarian can advise you about the best product for your dog and your situation. Your veterinarian is also aware of diseases that are common in your area and can pose a risk to your dog. Ticks can attach to and feed on humans. The skin where ticks attach to humans can become red and irritated. Ticks that transmit diseases to your dog can also transmit many of the same diseases to people. It is important to realize that people do not get these diseases from their dogs. Both people and dogs get the diseases from ticks they come into contact with outdoors
Be sure to check inside and behind his ears and around his eyes, all favorite tick hiding places. To remove a tick, follow these steps: Use a pair of tweezers to grasp the head of the tick where it attaches to the skin. Wear gloves if you plan to use your fingers to remove the tick. Pull on the tick gently and steadily. If you yank the tick away from your dog too quickly, you’ll leave part of the tick’s mouth behind, which can cause an infection. 
Once all the ticks have been removed from your dog, it is best to apply an antiseptic, such as Betadine, to prevent possible infestions. Any wounds should be small and heal quickly. In regards to preventing ticks, there are several natural methods for counteracting a case of ticks. Stunning the tick loosens the tick’s bite on your dog, because pulling the tick out without stunning it first may cause teeth to be left behind, which may cause a skin infection. Only a small amount of alcohol is needed to be sprayed on the tick.
To remove dog ticks, get a pair of gloves for your hands so that way you don't contract Lyme disease from the ticks. When you see the tick in your dog, take tweezers or your hand to slowly pull the tick from your dog. Make sure not to rip the tick out or if you do so, the tick's head can get stuck inside your dog and cause an infection. With the tick still in your hand or tweezers, drop it in a small tin of alcohol. Take some disinfectant and blot the area the tick was at or where you see any bites.
Fleas are the most common cause of skin disease in dogs and cats. When a flea bites, it injects saliva into your pet’s skin. This may trigger an allergic reaction. Signs include intense itching, hair loss (especially just in front of the tail), scabs, and red, irritated skin, which may lead to skin infections. Flea and tick shampoos are mainly useful for killing the fleas and ticks that are already on your pet. They don’t work as well to prevent ticks. Make sure you get the right kind. Some products for dogs can kill cats.
Also, be sure to check your dog for ticks after walking in possible infested areas, or after being near dogs that might be infested. A good place to check your dog for ticks after a walk is behind the ears and around the eyes, as those tend to be starting locations for tick problems. Stunning the tick loosens the tick’s bite on your dog, because pulling the tick out without stunning it first may cause teeth to be left behind, which may cause a skin infection. Only a small amount of alcohol is needed to be sprayed on the tick.
Please try again later. Ticks on dogs can result in tick-borne diseases, so it's important to remove any ticks with a pair of tweezers. Find out why it's important to remove ticks on a dog by the head with help from a staff veterinarian in this free video on dog health and pet care. 
To remove ticks, wear surgical gloves and use alcohol to stun the tick before you remove it. Stunning the tick loosens the tick’s bite on your dog, because pulling the tick out without stunning it first may cause teeth to be left behind, which may cause a skin infection. Only a small amount of alcohol is needed to be sprayed on the tick.