Co host of the country's most popular morning show 92 KQRS tells a funny joke. 
Tom Barnard and Terri Pawelk (Traen/Trainy) host the long-running morning show (with others such a Dave Mordal, Phillip Wise, Throttle-Me Bill and KMSP-TV news personality Jeff Passolt), Wally Walker hosts middays; Lisa Miller hosts half of the afternoon drive and Brian Zepp takes the other; Ray Erick hosts evenings. This location was the first studio and transmitter site for the station. The KQRS call sign stayed with the AM until 1982, when it switched to an oldies format as KGLD before returning to the simulcast and the KQRS calls less than two years later.
92 KQRS Morning Show. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The 92 KQRS Morning Show (also known as the KQ Morning Crew) is a popular, long-running radio morning show originating from KQRS-FM in Minneapolis, Minnesota. It is currently hosted by Tom Barnard, and features several other regular personalities. The crew made several derisive remarks; in particular, Barnard stated that Hmongs should assimilate or hit the goddamn road and, in response to his reading of the $ 10,000 fine levied against the girl, That's a lot of eggrolls..
Hope to see you out at LUCELINE Orchard this weekend! We were named one of the top Orchards in the state by WCCO TV! OPEN Thurs-Sunday 10-6. We welcome school& senior citizen trips, also showers,family and class reunions, company& bday parties. Thurs&Fri Grill&Hayrides are by appointment, they are open Sat&Sun 10-5:30. Beautfiul gifts in the barn, foods that are delish and a great play area for kids. Another mention...If you are coming out to the LUCELINE ORCHARD tomorrow, Stop by HOOKED ON CLASSICS in WATERTOWN! I'm there with prizes with KQRS from 10-NOON! A HUGE FESTIVAL with over 100 classic cars for sale, flea market, furniture makeover workshop and music by Lamont Cranston and the casey band!
History. When KQRS-formerly a sleepy classic rock station with a reputation for stoner music-was acquired by ABC Radio Network in 1985, it decided to bring in a high-performance team to better utilize the station's 50,000 watts of power. Mike came to this show via his career as a horse racing handicapper and fan; before KQRS, he co-hosted a sports-handicapping show at a small station in Anoka, MN (KANO-AM) with eventual WCCO-AM nightside host Dark Star, which led to his hiring at KQ.
{meet the family}. LuceLine Orchard is a sprawling 155 acre property located in Watertown, MN on the Luce Line Trail. Rich Pawelk and his wife Terri Traen started the orchard in 2004 with a dream and 300 apple trees. Today the orchard is just shy of 10,000 trees, 4,500 grape vines, and 10 acres of pumpkins. Their vision combined with hard work from family and friends has allowed them to open to the public for the first time this year. RICH & TERRI. Rich Pawelk grew up on a farm three miles west of Watertown (Montrose). Terri grew up in Delano and spent a good part of her childhood at her Grandparents’ dairy farm on Pioneer Trail in Greenfield. Farming was in their blood.
The 92 KQRS Morning Show (also known as the KQ Morning Crew) is a popular, long-running radio morning show originating from KQRS-FM in Minneapolis, Minnesota. It is currently hosted by Tom Barnard, and features several other regular personalities. It is also one of the highest-rated local morning shows in America. Mike came to this show via his career as a horse racing handicapper and fan; before KQRS, he co-hosted a sports-handicapping show at a small station in Anoka, MN (KANO-AM) with eventual WCCO-AM nightside host Dark Star, which led to his hiring at KQ.
Terri Traen. September 6 at 4:30am ·. KQRS Morning Show at the State Fair at Carousel Park from 9-noon today! Another mention...If you are coming out to the LUCELINE ORCHARD tomorrow, Stop by HOOKED ON CLASSICS in WATERTOWN! I'm there with prizes with KQRS from 10-NOON! A HUGE FESTIVAL with over 100 classic cars for sale, flea market, furniture makeover workshop and music by Lamont Cranston and the casey band!