heavy water reactor is not against the Geneva agreement and what has been stated in the agreement includes not installing equipment, but it does not refer to their purchase, Spokesman of the Atomic Energy Organization of Iran (AEOI) Behrouz Kamalvandi told FNA on Tuesday.
heavy water reactor is not against the Geneva agreement and what has been stated in the agreement includes not installing equipment, but it does not refer to their purchase, Spokesman of the Atomic Energy Organization of Iran (AEOI) Behrouz Kamalvandi told FNA on Tuesday.
Arak or araq (Arabic: عرق ‎) is a Levantine alcoholic spirit (~40–63% Alc. Vol./~80–126 proof) in the anis drinks family. It is a clear, colorless, unsweetened anise-flavored distilled alcoholic drink. Arak is the traditional alcoholic beverage in Lebanon, Iraq, Syria, Jordan, Palestine, and Israel.
The ARAK-21® is a gas piston actuated, complete upper receiver assembly designed to seamlessly interface with the standard AR-15 platform. The total extent of the interface is simply the take down pin, and the pivot pin.
Arak is not to be confused with the similarly named liquor, arrack (which in some cases, such as in Indonesia—especially Bali, also goes by the name arak). Another similar-sounding word is aragh, which in Armenia, Iran, Azerbaijan and Georgia is the colloquial name of vodka, and not an aniseed-flavored drink.
Batches of homemade arak are cut with methanol -- a solvent that is unfit for human consumption -- to save money and to create a stronger product. Methanol is not a byproduct of creating arak, it is added deliberately by the people distilling the spirit.
A homemade still producing arak in Indonesia. Photo by Greg Rodgers. Arak is a generic term used for a variety of spirits found in Asia, particularly Indonesia, Malaysia, Sri Lanka, and some parts of India.
Commonly used in social settings, the drink is famous for its potency, and the milky-white color it turns when water is added to it. Arak has a high alcohol content, so water and ice is almost always added, producing the drink nick-named, “the milk of lions,” in the Middle East.