The Humanist Philosophy: Humanism, as a word, seems to be used and/or misused more and more frequently in recent decades. There has probably never been a word in the English language more misunderstood and misused than humanism. This is an attempt to somewhat describe and define what exactly humanist philosophy is. Others claim that Humanism is a religion. Humanism is separate from religious belief, or lack thereof, noting that one can be religious and still be a humanist. The Humanist Chaplain at Harvard, for example, is Rabbi Greg Epstein – Judaism being his religion, Humanism his philosophy.
Humanistic, humanism and humanist are terms in psychology relating to an approach which studies the whole person, and the uniqueness of each individual. Essentially, these terms refer the same approach in psychology. Humanism is a psychological perspective that emphasizes the study of the whole person. Humanistic psychologists look at human behavior not only through the eyes of the observer, but through the eyes of the person doing the behaving. Sometimes the humanistic approach is called phenomenological.
Humanism rejected the assumptions of the behaviorist perspective which is characterized as deterministic, focused on reinforcement of stimulus-response behavior and heavily dependent on animal research. Humanism is a psychological perspective that emphasizes the study of the whole person. Humanistic psychologists look at human behavior not only through the eyes of the observer, but through the eyes of the person doing the behaving. Sometimes the humanistic approach is called phenomenological.
noun. The definition of humanism is a belief that human needs and values are more important than religious beliefs, or the needs and desires of humans. 1  An example of humanism is the belief that the person creates their own set of ethics. 2  An example of humanism is planting vegetables in garden beds
humanism. 1  the quality of being human; human nature. 2  any system of thought or action based on the nature, interests, and ideals of humanity; specif., a modern, nontheistic, rationalist movement that holds that humanity is capable of self-fulfillment, ethical conduct, etc. without recourse to supernaturalism. The definition of humanism is a belief that human needs and values are more important than religious beliefs, or the needs and desires of humans. 1  An example of humanism is the belief that the person creates their own set of ethics. 2  An example of humanism is planting vegetables in garden beds
Example of Humanism. Humanism is a broad conceptual platform which bases its values on human need and aspirations. It's similar to a moral philosophy, using human values as shared ideals in the sense that given values like the rights of liberty and free speech are human entitlements. Humanism is by nature progressive. As a current concept, humanism regularly develops and upgrades the desired state of the human being over time. Where free speech and voting rights were the big issues of the past, modern humanism now states 'Education is a right, not a privilege'.
Humanism emphasizes human dignity and the love of nature. This philosophy sees humans solving problems with rational thought and without the influence of secular or religious institutions. Humanism supports individual liberty, as well as human rights and responsibility for humankind and the planet. Examples of Humanism in the Arts and Sciences. Here are some examples of humanism: 1  The scholarly writings of Petrarch (1304 –1374), who is often called the father of humanism.