You can be contagious from a few days up to two weeks or more, depending on which virus is causing your stomach flu (gastroenteritis). A number of viruses can cause gastroenteritis, including noroviruses and rotaviruses. The contagious period — the time during which a sick person can give the illness to others — is slightly different for each virus. 1  Norovirus. 2  With norovirus — the most common cause of viral gastroenteritis in adults and children — you're contagious from the moment you begin to feel ill
Accurate knowledge of incubation period is particularly important for viral gastroenteritis because of the short incubation period duration, relatively high secondary attack rate, and potential for healthcare associated outbreaks. On PubMed we searched for the words “incubation”, “period”, and the virus name, on Google Scholar we searched for the phrases “incubation period of [virus name]” and “incubation period for [virus name]”, and on ISI Web of Knowledge we searched for “incubation period” and the virus name [ 20 ].
A person is not usually contagious during the norovirus incubation period. People infected with norovirus are usually contagious from the moment they begin feeling ill to at least 3 days after recovery. Some people may be contagious for as long as 2 weeks after recovery. After approximately 1 to 2 days, norovirus symptoms can appear. This period between the norovirus transmission and the start of norovirus symptoms is known as the norovirus incubation period..
We fit a log-normal distribution to pooled data and found the median incubation period to be 4.5 days (95% CI 3.9-5.2 days) for astrovirus, 1.2 days (95% CI 1.1-1.2 days) for norovirus genogroups I and II, 1.7 days (95% CI 1.5-1.8 days) for sapovirus, and 2.0 days (95% CI 1.4-2.4 days) for rotavirus. On PubMed we searched for the words “incubation”, “period”, and the virus name, on Google Scholar we searched for the phrases “incubation period of [virus name]” and “incubation period for [virus name]”, and on ISI Web of Knowledge we searched for “incubation period” and the virus name [ 20 ].
After approximately 1 to 2 days, depending on the virus, stomach flu symptoms can appear. This period between the stomach flu transmission and the start of symptoms is the stomach flu incubation period.. In some cases, the stomach flu incubation period can be as short as 4 hours. There are a variety of viruses that cause the stomach … flu (viral gastroenteritis). The incubation period for most of these viruses is 24-48 hours. However, the incubation period can occasionally be a full week.
When a person becomes infected with stomach flu, the virus begins to multiply within the small intestine. After approximately 1 to 2 days, depending on the virus, stomach flu symptoms can appear. This period between the stomach flu transmission and the start of symptoms is the stomach flu incubation period.. In some cases, the stomach flu incubation period can be as short as 4 hours.
In people with stomach flu, the incubation period may range from 4 hours to 1 to 2 days, depending on the type of virus that is causing the infection. This period between the stomach flu transmission and the start of symptoms is the stomach flu incubation period.. In some cases, the stomach flu incubation period can be as short as 4 hours.
Additional Notes on Incubation Period. Despite the length of the incubation period in rotavirus and norovirus, there is an average period of time that people will incubate the illness. Most people will harbor the stomach flu virus for as little as 4 hours to as long as 2 days. Naturally, that length of the incubation period depends on the virus that’s causing the infection. The symptoms also start developing as soon as the initial incubation period passes, usually about after a day or two. At the onset of stomach flu, the virus infiltrates the small intestine and starts to multiply.
The incubation period of the stomach flu is the time from when you swallowed the viruses to when you start to feel sick. There are a variety of viruses that cause the stomach … flu (viral gastroenteritis). The incubation period for most of these viruses is 24-48 hours. However, the incubation period can occasionally be a full week.
In the case of a norovirus infection (including Norwalk virus), a person is not usually contagious during the stomach flu incubation period. People infected with norovirus gastroenteritis are usually contagious from the moment they begin feeling ill to at least 3 days after recovery. There are a variety of viruses that cause the stomach … flu (viral gastroenteritis). The incubation period for most of these viruses is 24-48 hours. However, the incubation period can occasionally be a full week.