Lye means to wash, or warm bath. Commonly, but not limited too, sodium or potassium hydroxide. In the quite parts of the world Lye is still often made from wood ash when used for cooking or olive production. We boil our local corn in ash water to make our version of masa (nixtamalization).
They made their lye the old fashioned way by leaching water through wood ashes. So if you're in a far corner of our globe and can't get lye locally...or are just curious how it's done, here is a collection of pages that will show you how. Ingredients and Safety Protection. 
David Fisher. Lye used to be available in the supermarket, but not any more. You can find it in some hardware stores-often in the drain cleaning section. You need to be very careful that you're getting 100% sodium hydroxide - do not buy it if it's not. If you can't find lye for soapmaking locally, here are some other stores, web sites and solutions for you:
Pellets of sodium hydroxide. A lye is a liquid obtained by leaching ashes (containing largely potassium carbonate or potash), or a strong alkali which is highly soluble in water producing caustic basic solutions. Lye is commonly the alternative name of sodium hydroxide (NaOH) or historically potassium hydroxide (KOH). Today, sodium hydroxide is commercially manufactured using a membrane cell chloralkali process. It is one of the highest volume industrial chemicals with world-wide annual production of 45 million tons in 1998
How to Make Lye. Lye, also known as NaOH, sodium hydroxide, or caustic soda, is used in making soap and in biodiesel fuel production. Caustic potash, or potassium hydroxide, is also called lye. This is a key step. Depending upon how much lye you want to leach, make sure that you have 2 or 3 gallons (7.6 or 11.4 L) of soft water before you proceed. 1  Water from a dehumidifier works as well. 2  You can also use electrically distilled water. 3  The purer the water, the more potassium that can be leached from the ashes.
Depending upon how much lye you want to leach, make sure that you have 2 or 3 gallons (7.6 or 11.4 L) of soft water before you proceed. 1  Water from a dehumidifier works as well. 2  You can also use electrically distilled water. This is a key step. Depending upon how much lye you want to leach, make sure that you have 2 or 3 gallons (7.6 or 11.4 L) of soft water before you proceed. 1  Water from a dehumidifier works as well. 2  You can also use electrically distilled water. 3  The purer the water, the more potassium that can be leached from the ashes.
Making Lye Water. If you are going to use a large barrel or drum to make the lye water in, and it has a tap or hole at the right, place some kind of filter on the inside of the barrel around the opening. Fill the barrel with white ashes to about four inches (10 cm or 0.1 metre) below the top. Making lye from wood ash. Lye made from wood ash is potassium hydroxide, not sodium hydroxide -- there's 10 times as much potassium as sodium in wood ash. The process makes lye water. If you boiled off all the water you could use it as the catalyst to make biodiesel, but you'd need more accurate pH measures than those listed below