The Meanings of Words. Denotation and Connotation. Denotation The strict dictionary meaning of a word Connotation The emotional and imaginative association surrounding a word Denotation vs. Connotation Denotation is the dictionary or literal meaning of a word. Connotative words imply emotions. Plump = a full, round
Meaning includes both denotation and connotation. 'Denotation' tends to be described as the definitional, 'literal', 'obvious' or 'commonsense' meaning of a sign. In the case of linguistic signs, the denotative meaning is what the dictionary attempts to provide.
2. Some Definitions of Denotation and Connotation Denotative meaning is the objective (dictionary) relationship between a word and the reality to which it refers (Crystal, 1987:418). Connotative meaning, on the other hand, is the communicative power of a word by virtue of what it refers to (Leech, 1974:15). Bell (1991:98-99) makes a good distinction between denotative meaning and connotative meaning saying that The first refers to meaning which is referential, objective and cognitive and, hence, the shared property of the speech community which uses the language of which the word or sentence forms a part.
Report Abuse. The denotative meaning of a word is basically the dictionary meaning of the word. It is the objectively understood definition of a word. It is the meaning that nearly 100% of the people would respond to as the proper meaning of the word. It is entirely objective. OBJECTIVE. Answers. Best Answer: A denotative meaning is what you will find in a dictionary, so it is objective. Connotative meanings are subjective because their essence is what the words mean to the people who hear them in light of their personal experience.
2. denotation-the most direct or specific meaning of a word or expression; the class of objects that an expression refers to; the extension of `satellite of Mars' is the set containing only Demos and Phobos. reference, extension. 1. the explicit or direct meaning or set of meanings of a word or expression, as distinguished from the ideas or meanings associated with or suggested by it. Compare connotation (def. 2). 2. the act or fact of denoting; indication. 3. a word that names or denotes something. 4. a mark, sign, or symbol; indicator. 5
Posted on. (Answer #1). Denotation is the objective definition of a word, usually as found in a dictionary. Connotation is the subjective meaning that people attach to a word, which can be different from the formal definition. For example, the words thin or slender both denote more or less the same thing as the word skinny.. Denotation is the literal or primary meaning of a word, in contrast to the feelings or ideas that the word suggests. Connotation is an idea or feeling that a word invokes in addition to its literal or primary meaning.