This is an instruction set detailing how to make rum at home. It takes about 4-10 days to complete. This instruction set includes instructions for making rum, a link for making a reflux still of your own, and a link for dilution of the final product. Often, rum is aged in toasted oak barrels for 10 years or longer to add depth of flavor and color. If you don't have the luxury of a toasted oak barrel, or 10 years' time, you can safely soak your rum in toasted oak chips for three weeks to impart a signature taste.
Rum is a distilled alcoholic beverage made from sugarcane byproducts, such as molasses, or directly from sugarcane juice, by a process of fermentation and distillation. The origin of the word rum is generally unclear. In an 1824 essay about the word's origin, Samuel Morewood, a British etymologist, suggested it might be from the British slang term for the best, as in having a rum time..
The majority of the world's rum production occurs in the Caribbean and Latin America. Rum is also produced in Austria, Spain, Australia, New Zealand, Fiji, Hawaii, the Philippines, India, Reunion Island, Mauritius, South Africa, Taiwan, Thailand, Japan, the United States and Canada. Rums are produced in various grades. The origin of the word rum is generally unclear. In an 1824 essay about the word's origin, Samuel Morewood, a British etymologist, suggested it might be from the British slang term for the best, as in having a rum time..
Fashioning your own spiced rum is so easy that there is really no reason to buy the artificially flavored slosh you find at the store. Just combine some high-quality gold rum with spices, and after a couple of days, you’ve concocted your own spirit! 
rum 1. n. 1. An alcoholic liquor distilled from fermented molasses or sugarcane. 2. 1. an alcoholic liquor or spirit distilled from molasses or some other fermented sugarcane product. 2. any intoxicating liquor.
A subcategory of dark rums are those called blackstrap. These are produced from the darkest molasses produced by the third boiling while refining sugar and the resulting rum is equally as dark, rich, and thick. Examples of blackstrap rums are Cruzan Black Strap and Captain Morgan Black Spiced Rum. Medium-bodied rums are often called Gold or Amber rum and are rich and smooth. This is a result of either the production of congeners (organic compounds produced during production) or the addition of caramel. Gold rums are often aged in oak casks which also contribute to their dark, smooth characteristics.
10 most extreme places on Earth. Rum is a hard alcohol made from fermented sugar. This process usually includes the fermentation of the juices of the sugarcane plant, as well as of molasses and other by-products of sugar production. Rum is one of the major liquors in the world, with a history steeped in the myths of piracy, the Caribbean, and slavery. Rum may be enjoyed on its own, and perhaps on the rocks. Sugarcane, which is used to make rum. Today, rum is often commercially produced by fermenting sugar in large steel vats.
Intro: It is rather hard to define the entire rum family as a group because of the variety of rum produced. Each of the light, gold, dark and spiced rums have their own distinct characteristics and furthermore the rums produced in each country differ from one another due to varying laws and tradition in production. Medium-bodied rums are often called Gold or Amber rum and are rich and smooth. This is a result of either the production of congeners (organic compounds produced during production) or the addition of caramel. Gold rums are often aged in oak casks which also contribute to their dark, smooth characteristics.
rum 1. 1. an alcoholic liquor or spirit distilled from molasses or some other fermented sugarcane product. 2. any intoxicating liquor. [1645–55; perhaps short for obsolete rumbullion, rumbustion ]