Here are pictures of people with the name Holden. Help us put a face to the name by uploading your pictures to BabyNames.com! 
[ 2 syll. hol-den, ho-ld-en ] The baby boy name Holden is sometimes used as a girl name. Its pronunciation is HH OW L-DehN †. Holden is used predominantly in the English language and it is derived from Old English origins. The name's meaning is deep valley, hollow in the valley. It is derived from the elements 'holh' meaning hollow, hole; 'denu' valley. Holden is popular as a baby name for boys, and it is also considered trendy. The name's popularity has been rising since the 1980s; before that, it was of very modest use only. At the recent peak of its usage in 2012, 0.058% of baby boys were given the name Holden. It ranked at #296 then
[ more ]. Holden is an uncommon given name for males but a very popular last name for both adults and children (#940 out of 150436, Top 1%). (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the birth name popularity of Holden for boys. Variations. Holden is an uncommon given name for males but a very popular last name for both adults and children (#940 out of 150436, Top 1%).
Parents who loved J. D. Salinger 's The Catcher in the Rye are flocking to the name of its hero, Holden Caulfield -- not coincidentally in tune with the Hudson-Hayden-Colton field of names. 
Holden /hold-en/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced HOHL-den. It is of Old English origin, and the meaning of Holden is deep valley. The hero of JD Salinger's novel The Catcher in the Rye is named Holden Caulfield. Variations. Holden is an uncommon given name for males but a very popular last name for both adults and children (#940 out of 150436, Top 1%). (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the birth name popularity of Holden for boys
GM Holden Ltd, commonly known as Holden, is an Australian automaker that operates in Australasia and is headquartered in Port Melbourne, Victoria. The company was founded in 1856 as a saddlery manufacturer in South Australia. 
In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 292 in baby name popularity for boys with 1208 occurrences. It ranked 8156 in popular baby names for girls with 14 occurrences. View the Holden Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Holden has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Holden to other names.
American Meaning: The name Holden is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Holden is: Gracious. English Meaning: The name Holden is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Holden is: From the hollow in the valley. Both a surname and place name. Famous Bearer: Holden Caulfield, the hero of J. D. Salinger's novel The Catcher in the Ry