[ 3 syll. ro-meo, rom-eo ] The baby boy name Romeo is pronounced as RowM EY-ow-or R OW Miy-ow- †. Romeo is used predominantly in the English, German, Italian, Romanian, Slavic, and Spanish languages, and it is derived from Latin origins. It is from the element 'romaeus' meaning pilgrim to Rome.
Etymology & Historical Origin-Romeo. Romeo is an Italian name derived from a Late Latin religious name “Romaeus” meaning ‘pilgrim to Rome’ (pilgrim to the Holy Roman Catholic Church based in Rome). However, the name is most associated with William Shakespeare’s hero in his 1596 play about two star-crossed, ill-fated lovers, “Romeo and Juliet”
The name Juliet is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Juliet is: Young. American Meaning: The name Juliet is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Juliet is: Young. French Meaning: The name Juliet is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Juliet is: Youthful;. 'Jove's child.' Star crossed lover in the Shakespearian tragedy Romeo and Juliet. Italian Meaning: The name Juliet is an Italian baby name.
The name Romeo is an Italian baby name. In Italian the meaning of the name Romeo is: Pilgrim from Rome. Latin Meaning: The name Romeo is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Romeo is: Pilgrim to Rome. Shakespearean Meaning: The name Romeo is a Shakespearean baby name.
Meaning & History. Italian form of the Late Latin name Romaeus meaning a pilgrim to Rome. Romeo is best known as the lover of Juliet in Shakespeare 's tragedy 'Romeo and Juliet' (1596). Related Names.
Romeo is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 5 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Ro-meo. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 341 in baby name popularity for boys with 962 occurrences. Less than 5 girls were given the name. View the Romeo Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Romeo has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Romeo to other names.
A variant of Romeo in other languages is Romero (Latin). Romeo is a fairly popular baby name for boys, and it is also considered trendy. The name's popularity has been rising since the 1990s. At the recent peak of its usage in 2012, 0.048% of baby boys were given the name Romeo. Its ranking then was #323. Romeo is used predominantly in the English, German, Italian, Romanian, Slavic, and Spanish languages, and it is derived from Latin origins. It is from the element 'romaeus' meaning pilgrim to Rome.
Shakespeare is drawing less than subtle parallels. Juliet: A name of Latin origin, meaning “youthful; Jove’s child”. Shakespeare moved the events of his “Romeo and Juliet” from that of the source text, his play takes place in July while Brooke’s was clearly set around Christmas. One theory for this is that “Juliet” is associated with “July”. 
Romeo /ro-meo/ [3 sylls.] as a boys' name is of Italian and Latin origin, and the meaning of Romeo is citizen of Rome. From Romanus. Shakespeare used the name for his tragic young hero in the famous romance Romeo and Juliet. Kreatif forms: Rameo, Remeo, Riomeo. Romeo is a somewhat popular first name for males (#688 out of 1220, Top 56%) and an even more popular surname for all people (#3984 out of 150436, Top 3%). (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the baby name popularity of Romeo for boys.