Report Abuse. Well, I think you can be legally dead for that long in a frozen lake. Actually Dr's are working on some process of freezing people to keep them alive longer-for example they stop breathing from some sort of problem so the Dr freezes them so that they have longer to work on them. my grandpa has done it 4 times through heart attacks. 30 minutes is too long. although jewish people believe that a person can be dead for 3 days, and still not be fully dead. Lazerus(Jesus' best friend) died for 4 days and was brought back to life by the power of God. C2(//_^) · 7 years ago. Thumbs up.
Cardiopulmonary resuscitation, commonly known as CPR, is an emergency procedure performed in an effort to manually preserve intact brain function until further measures are taken to restore spontaneous blood circulation and breathing in a person who is in cardiac arrest. According to the International Liaison Committee on Resuscitation guidelines, CPR involves chest compressions at least 5 cm (2 in) deep and at a rate of at least 100 per minute in an effort to create artificial circulation by manually pumping blood through the heart and thus the body.
Unconscious is not really the word you're looking for because that just implies you're not conscious. You can certainly be breathing and neurologically intact if you're just unconscious. I think what you're looking for is how long can the brain survive without oxygen. Well, it's subjective, but pretty standardly, brain tissue will start to die after 4-6 minutes without oxygen. That is a main reason why early CPR and defibrillation is KEY to survival. Even just calling 911 and doing compressions (and no breaths). 
The reality is that the fish doesn't need to be dead before it is cooked, though most people don't/can't keep the fish alive for the time it takes to get it to the kitchen. Th … e act of cleaning the fish kills it anyway. When concerned with how long one can store fish before cooking, there are no hard-and-fast rules. That will be dependent upon the condition of the fish when caught, the handling after the catch, packaging and how it is stored by the consumer. If the fish is kept clean and cold, it may still be usable in 3-5 days
On scene resuscitation efforts by paramedics will be sustained for a minimum of 20 minutes regardless of the previous CPR time and the arrest interval. Time begins with paramedic initiation of ALS care (IV, Advanced airway).e. When concerned with how long one can store fish before cooking, there are no hard-and-fast rules. That will be dependent upon the condition of the fish when caught, the handling after the catch, packaging and how it is stored by the consumer.
The question of how long someone's heart would have to be stopped for before you can safely say that regardless of what you do, you're not going to be able to revive them is a very tricky question. It's not as simple as saying after 10 or even 20 minutes there's no hope. 20 minutes is a common time frame. Vasopressin takes approximately 20 minutes to begin to cause a reaction. A rescuer would need to continue attempting resuscitation for at least that long before they would expect a result. 20 minutes would then be the minimum amount of time you would attempt resuscitation. Some would continue longer, especially if they had a change in the electrical function of the heart
Cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) is a first aid technique that can be used if someone is not breathing properly or if their heart has stopped. Chest compressions and rescue breaths keep blood and oxygen circulating in the body. 
CPR may be done when a person stops breathing or the heart stops beating (like when a person has a heart attack or almost drowns). When it's possible that the person may get better, CPR is an important life-saving technique. CPR can help keep oxygenated blood circulating in the body, which can help prevent brain and organ damage. CPR may prolong life for patients who have a better health status or who are younger. CPR may also prolong life if it's done within 5 to 10 minutes of when the person's heart stopped beating or breathing stopped.