Usage notes [edit]. 1  When the object of this preposition is brief and animate, the alternative construction on someone's account is often used instead. 2  If the object is a personal pronoun, that construction is more common; for example, on my account is more common than on account of me. 1 When the object of this preposition is brief and animate, the alternative construction on someone's account is often used instead. 2  If the object is a personal pronoun, that construction is more common; for example, on my account is more common than on account of me.
Usage notes. 1  When the object of this preposition is brief and animate, the alternative construction on someone's account is often used instead. 2  Similarly, on that account, using that as a determiner, is more common than on account of that. 1 If the object is a personal pronoun, that construction is more common; for example, on my account is more common than on account of me.
7 part or behalf (only in the phrase on one's or someone's account). 8 (Finance). a a business relationship between a bank, department store, stockbroker, etc., and a depositor, customer, or client permitting the latter certain banking or credit services. b the sum of money deposited at a bank. 
When accountants use the phrase Paid on Account, it tells anyone looking at the company's books that an entry in the accounts payable is no longer outstanding. Similarly, the phrase Purchased on Account signifies an increase in accounts payable. Accountants use the phrase Paid on Account in the general journal, also called the general ledger, of a company's accounting documents.
Effects. When accountants write Paid on Account in the accounts payable section of the general journal, the amount paid affects the liabilities and assets of the company. Because accounts payable is a liability to the company, lowering or eliminating the accounts payable balance decreases company liabilities. Accountants use the phrase Paid on Account in the general journal, also called the general ledger, of a company's accounting documents.
DEFINITION of 'On Account'. An accounting term that denotes partial payment of an amount owed or the purchase/sale of merchandise or a service on credit. For example, if a firm purchases $5,000 worth of merchandise on account, this refers to the purchase of the goods on credit and a deferral of payment. Next Up
Usage notes. 1  When the object of this preposition is brief and animate, the alternative construction on someone's account is often used instead. 2  If the object is a personal pronoun, that construction is more common; for example, on my account is more common than on account of me. 1 If the object is a personal pronoun, that construction is more common; for example, on my account is more common than on account of me. 2  Similarly, on that account, using that as a determiner, is more common than on account of that
1 When the object of this preposition is brief and animate, the alternative construction on someone's account is often used instead. 2  If the object is a personal pronoun, that construction is more common; for example, on my account is more common than on account of me. 1 If the object is a personal pronoun, that construction is more common; for example, on my account is more common than on account of me. 2  Similarly, on that account, using that as a determiner, is more common than on account of that