1 A breast infection that leads to an abscess (a localized pocket or collection of pus) is a more serious type of infection. 2  If mastitis is left untreated, an abscess can develop in the breast tissue. 1 The glands that produce milk (mammary glands) that are connected to the surface of the breast by the lactiferous ducts may extend to the armpit area (axilla). 2 
An abscess is a localized collection of pus surrounded by inflamed tissues. A tooth abscess, also called an acute periapical abscess, may develop either directly from acute periapical periodontitis (inflammation of the tooth supporting tissues around the apex) or usually from a chronic periapical granuloma. Dental abscess can form in a badly decayed or infected tooth and the quickest way to drain the pus would be tooth extraction. If you don’t want to get your tooth pulled, then one of your tooth repair options is to have a root canal. Root canal therapy is done to facilitate drainage of pus through the root canals.
Cysts can form around the root tip of a pulpally infected tooth PERIODONTAL ABSCESS Overview A periodontal abscess is a localized collection of pus within the gum, formed by the disintegration of tissue resulting from bacterial infection of the gums, and / or the tooth root(s) and its supporting bone. Infection of the pulp can therefore occur, even though the tooth has no evidence of decay. Such an infection is called an endodontic-periodontal lesion to reflect the duality of cause. Prevention of periodontal abscess Practicing good oral hygiene can help prevent periodontal disease and hence periodontal abscesses.
A localized collection of pus in any body part, resulting from invasion of a pyogenic bacterium or other pathogen. Staphylococcus aureus, e.g., methicillin-resistant S. aureus (MRSA), is a common cause. The abscess is surrounded by a membrane of variable strength created by macrophages, fibrin, and granulation tissue. An abscess with pus but without signs of inflammation. It usually develops slowly as a result of liquefaction of tuberculous tissue. It may occur anywhere in or on the body but more frequently in the spine, hips, genitourinary tract, and lymph glands.
Accumulation of pus in a preexisting body cavity is called an empyema. If the collection of pus is NOT in a preexisting body cavity, or is due to an infection or a foreign bod … y, then it can be called an abscess if it is contained by a complete fibrous capsule. Split and merge into it. Answer by Itznatalia. Confidence votes 288. An abscess is a localized collection of pus. A pustule is a visibule circumscribed collection of pus below the epidermis.
subdural hematoma A subdural hematoma is a collection of blood in the space between the outer layer (dura) and middle layers of the covering of the brain (the meninges …). It is most often caused by torn, bleeding veins on the inside of the dura as a result of a blow to the head. Split and merge into it. Answer by Itznatalia. Confidence votes 288. An abscess is a localized collection of pus. A pustule is a visibule circumscribed collection of pus below the epidermis.
1 a cavity containing pus and surrounded by inflamed tissue, formed as a result of suppuration in a localized infection, characteristically caused by staphylococci but also caused by parasites and foreign substances. Healing usually occurs when an abscess drains or is incised. An abscess with pus but without signs of inflammation. It usually develops slowly as a result of liquefaction of tuberculous tissue. It may occur anywhere in or on the body but more frequently in the spine, hips, genitourinary tract, and lymph glands.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Accumulation of pus in a preexisting body cavity is called an empyema. If the collection of pus is NOT in a preexisting body cavity, or is due to an infection or a foreign body, then it can be called an abscess if it is contained by a complete fibrous capsule. Often, if not further delimited, empyema refers to a plueral empyema. Empyema means the collection of pus within a body cavity but when you are talking about the pleural cavity it is another word, pyothorax. Pyothorax is the correct term to use … when you are talking about the accumulation of pus in the pleural cavity.
PERIODONTAL ABSCESS. Overview. A periodontal abscess is a localized collection of pus within the gum, formed by the disintegration of tissue resulting from bacterial infection of the gums, and / or the tooth root(s) and its supporting bone. Infection of the pulp can therefore occur, even though the tooth has no evidence of decay. Such an infection is called an endodontic-periodontal lesion to reflect the duality of cause. Prevention of periodontal abscess Practicing good oral hygiene can help prevent periodontal disease and hence periodontal abscesses.