The Uinta ground squirrel (Urocitellus armatus), commonly called a Potgut in northern Utah, is a species of rodent native to the western United States. Uinta ground squirrels are primarily herbivorous, and mostly eat grass, seeds, and the leaves of forbs, along with a small amount of earthworms and discarded human food. The exact composition of the diet changes throughout the year. Their most common predators are coyotes, badgers, weasels, and raptor
The Uinta ground squirrel (Spermophilus armatus) is found in a small area of extreme south-western Montana. DAMAGE Ground squirrel and prairie dog damage to food, fiber, and natural resources in Montana is widespread and locally severe. 
The Uinta ground squirrel is a moderately sized ground squirrel, measuring 28 to 30 cm (11 to 12 in) in total length. They weigh about 210 g (7.4 oz) when they emerge from hibernation, a figure that steadily increases until they are ready to hibernate again in the fall. Uinta ground squirrels are primarily herbivorous, and mostly eat grass, seeds, and the leaves of forbs, along with a small amount of earthworms and discarded human food. The exact composition of the diet changes throughout the year. Their most common predators are coyotes, badgers, weasels, and raptors
The Uinta Ground Squirrel has brownish buff fur, slightly paler on the sides. The belly is pale buff to white. The tail is black with buff on top and bottom and buff on the sides. The nose, ears and face are cinnamon color. The ears are small and rounded with short fur. They live in colonies of about 23 - 28 individuals per square hectare. Uinta Ground Squirrels are strong swimmers.
I discovered these Uinta Ground Squirrel while walking a trail to a waterfall. I had no idea what they were and had to do a little research to find out. They were fun to watch! The Uinta ground squirrel, commonly called a Potgut in northern Utah, is a native of the northern Rocky Mountains and surrounding foothills of the United States including Idaho, Montana, Utah, and Wyoming. Their habitat includes dry meadows, grasslands, and cultivated fields close to water. 
The chipmunks of the genus Tamias frequently spend time in trees. Also closer to typical squirrels in other aspects, they are occasionally considered a tribe of their own (Tamiini). The ground squirrel is especially renowned for its tendency to rise up on its hind legs. Together, they make up the marmot tribe  of squirrels, Marmotini, and the large and mainly ground squirrel subfamily Xerinae, and containing six living genera.
Spermophilus armatus (Uinta Ground Squirrel). Description:The Uinta ground squirrel has a grayish backand rump with fine white spots on its back. Its nose and shoulders are tan to cinnamon, and its tail is grayish underneath and tan or buffy on top. The tan/buff color on the tail helps distinguish it from the Townsends ground squirrel, and it is larger.
The ground squirrels are members of the squirrel family of rodents (Sciuridae) which generally live on or in the ground, rather than trees. Together, they make up the marmot tribe  of squirrels, Marmotini, and the large and mainly ground squirrel subfamily Xerinae, and containing six living genera.
The Uinta ground squirrel (Urocitellus armatus) is a mammal native to the northern Rocky Mountains and its surrounding foothills. Its range stretches through Idaho, Montana, Wyoming and Utah. The squirrels inhabit grasslands, fields, and dry meadows and feed on seeds, greens, insects and small animals. 