New program graduate salaries range from $75,000 to $90,000 with experienced pathologists' assistants earning $100,000 or more annually. Factors that influence a pathologists’ assistant’s salary include experience, workload, setting and regional cost of living. Sign-on, retention and annual bonuses are commonplace. By performing such a wide array of tasks, pathologists' assistants make a significant contribution to a laboratory's or pathology practice's effectiveness and cost efficiency. You can find out more about what a pathologists’ assistant does on the American Association of Pathologists’ Assistants website.
The average hourly wage for a pathologist ranges from $18 to $26 per hour. Some of the best paying states for pathologists in the United States include Seattle $237,000, Houston $223,000, New York $254,000, and Los Angeles $242,811. pathologist salary. 
To become a pathologist, you must have a medical degree which means 4 years of medical school plus another 4 years of on-the-job training are necessary, depending on the area you specialize in. Develop strong communication skills. Take writing classes, speech and public relations courses. 
During the final semester of graduate school, students take a clinical practicum. Clinicals require 300 to 375 hours of hands-on practice under the supervision of a licensed and certified speech-language pathologist. A graduate degree in speech-language pathology takes two years of study beyond the bachelor's.
3. Get specialized training toward becoming a forensic pathologist. There are 2 main routes to become a forensic pathologist after getting your medical degree. One is studying another 4 years of anatomic and clinical pathology, followed by a year's residency or fellowship in forensic pathology. The other is to study anatomic pathology for 3 to 4 years and then to study forensic pathology for another year. As a resident or intern, you'll perform autopsies and take part in investigations under the supervision of a trained forensic pathologist. 4. 
To become forensic pathologist you first need a high school degree. Then it takes four years for your undergraduate degree,another four years in medical school, and extra four … years as a resident in pathology and then a one year fellowship. You also need to pass the test given by the American Board of Pathology. After high school, approximately 13 years: 4 years of college 4 years of medical school 4-5 years of pathology residency training 1 year of forensic pathology subspecialty training.
Step 2: Complete a Pathologist's Assistant Program. Pathologist's assistant programs last approximately two years and most often culminate in a master's degree. Curriculum consists of microbiology, general pathology, forensic photography, human anatomy, genetics and immunology. Step 1: Earn a Bachelor's Degree. An undergraduate major in one of the life sciences, such as biology or chemistry, is usually sufficient preparation for admission to a pathologist's assistant program.
A pathologists’ assistant is an intensively trained allied health professional who provides anatomic pathology services under the direction and supervision of a licensed, board-certified or board-eligible pathologist. By performing such a wide array of tasks, pathologists' assistants make a significant contribution to a laboratory's or pathology practice's effectiveness and cost efficiency. You can find out more about what a pathologists’ assistant does on the American Association of Pathologists’ Assistants website.
Applicants with a bachelor's degree who have completed an accredited pathologist's assistant program within a five-year period prior to applying for certification are eligible to take the national certification exam. Continuing education coursework is required every three years in order to maintain the status. Step 1: Earn a Bachelor's Degree. An undergraduate major in one of the life sciences, such as biology or chemistry, is usually sufficient preparation for admission to a pathologist's assistant program.