Kingston Name Meaning. The meaning of Kingston is “King's town”. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. Instead, we recommend that you pay a greater attention to the origin and meaning of the name Kingston. Read our baby name articles for useful tips regarding baby names and naming your baby. If you are thinking of giving your baby the beautiful name Kingston, spread the love and share this with your friends.
Kingston /king-ston/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is of Old English origin, and the meaning of Kingston is king's settlement. Place name. Kreatif forms: Kekingston, Kingstonke, Kingstonnoa. Kingston is an uncommonly occurring first name for men but a very prominent surname for all people (#5035 out of 150436, Top 3%). (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the baby name popularity of Kingston for boys. Kingston entered the list in 2006 and reached its highest rank of #161 in the U.S. in 2014
English Meaning: The name Kingston is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Kingston is: From the king's village or estate 'King's field.' King is one of several titles occasionally used as given names. American Meaning: The name Kingston is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Kingston is: From the king's village or estate 'King's field.' King is one of several titles occasionally used as given names. SoulUrge Number: 6. Expression Number: 1
The first thing you should know if you are considering Kingston for your baby's name is that in most countries all over the world the name Kingston is a boy name. The name Kingston is of English origin, and is used mostly in English speaking countries but also in a few other countries and languages of the world. Instead, we recommend that you pay a greater attention to the origin and meaning of the name Kingston. Read our baby name articles for useful tips regarding baby names and naming your baby. If you are thinking of giving your baby the beautiful name Kingston, spread the love and share this with your friends.
Then just follow the diagram below. Just for fun, see the name Kingston in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Kingston in Nautical Flags page. It ranked 10479 in popular baby names for girls with 10 occurrences. View the Kingston Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Kingston has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Kingston to other names.
Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Kingston and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Kingston and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. Instead, we recommend that you pay a greater attention to the origin and meaning of the name Kingston. Read our baby name articles for useful tips regarding baby names and naming your baby. If you are thinking of giving your baby the beautiful name Kingston, spread the love and share this with your friends.
[ 2 syll. kin -(g)(s) ton, ki-ngst-on ] The baby boy name Kingston is pronounced K IH-NGSTahN †. Kingston is of Old English origin and it is used mainly in English. Kingston's meaning is 'from the king's estate'. Kingston has 12 variant forms. Variant forms include Kindon, Kindun, King, Kingdon, Kingdun, Kingstan, Kingsten, Kingstun, Kinston, Kinstun, Kyngston, and Kynston. Kingston is popular as a baby name for boys, and it is also perceived to be trendy. The name has been rising in popularity since the 2000s; prior to that, it was of only sporadic use. At the modest peak of its usage in 2012, 0.088% of baby boys were named Kingston. It ranked at #210 then.
Kingston is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 8 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Kin-gston. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 161 in baby name popularity for boys with 2566 occurrences. It ranked 10479 in popular baby names for girls with 10 occurrences. View the Kingston Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Kingston has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Kingston to other names.