In the present study we found a significant association between 5-HTT and BPD based on allele and haplotype analyses, implying that the serotonin transporter gene may play a role in the aetiology of borderline personality disorder. Compared with healthy controls, patients with BPD showed higher frequencies of the 10 repeat of the VNTR marker and the S-10 haplotype, and fewer 12 repeat and L A -12 haplotype. These results suggest that the serotonin transporter gene may play a role in the aetiology of BPD.
Borderline personality disorder (BPD) is a Cluster B personality disorder in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-IV) . According to the American Psychiatric Association, Cluster B disorders are characterized by behavior that is dramatic, erratic and emotional. Because many personality domains are heritable, borderline personality disorder may be a result of a genotype interacting with adverse environmental factors. This would in turn lead to the expression of borderline symptoms or other dysfunctional personality traits. Researchers have found that personality disorders develop from a combination of genes and environmental effects on personality traits
Introduction. Borderline personality disorder (BPD) is a chronic, disabling, and high-risk mental disorder characterized by a pervasive pattern of instability in regulation of emotion, interpersonal relationships, self-image, and impulse control beginning in early adulthood. Compared with healthy controls, patients with BPD showed higher frequencies of the 10 repeat of the VNTR marker and the S-10 haplotype, and fewer 12 repeat and L A -12 haplotype. These results suggest that the serotonin transporter gene may play a role in the aetiology of BPD.
While sometimes under the radar screen, borderline personality disorder (BPD) is a condition more common than schizophrenia or bipolar disorder and is estimated to affect 2 percent of the population. “We were able to provide precise estimates of the genetic influence on BPD features, test for differences between the sexes, and determine if our estimates were consistent across three different countries,” Trull said.
Borderline personality disorder is a disorder characterized by pervasive instability in moods, interpersonal relationships, self-image and behavior, and can lead to suicidal behavior, substance abuse and failed relationships. “We were able to provide precise estimates of the genetic influence on BPD features, test for differences between the sexes, and determine if our estimates were consistent across three different countries,” Trull said.
To do this we find people with the disease who have a twin, and then find out whether the twin is also ill. Identical (monozygotic) twins share 100% of their genes, while non-identical (“fraternal” or dizygotic) twins share 50% of their genes. If genes are part of the cause, we expect a patient’s identical twin to have a much higher risk of disease than a patient’s non-identical twin. That is the case for major depression. This could mean that in most cases of depression, around 50% of the cause is genetic, and around 50% is unrelated to genes (psychological or physical factors). Or it could mean that in some cases, the tendency to become depressed is almost completely genetic, and in other cases it is not really genetic at all.
The serotonin transporter gene (5-HTT) is considered as a candidate gene for BPD as multiple lines of evidence have suggested that it plays an important role in suicide, impulsive behaviour, and emotional liability. Compared with healthy controls, patients with BPD showed higher frequencies of the 10 repeat of the VNTR marker and the S-10 haplotype, and fewer 12 repeat and L A -12 haplotype. These results suggest that the serotonin transporter gene may play a role in the aetiology of BPD.
Researchers do know from twin studies that genetics plays a role in personality disorders. Environmental factors, such as childhood abuse, neglect and separation from caregivers, as well as brain abnormalities, emotion regulation, impulsivity, aggression and serotonin levels all play a role. Because many personality domains are heritable, borderline personality disorder may be a result of a genotype interacting with adverse environmental factors. This would in turn lead to the expression of borderline symptoms or other dysfunctional personality traits. Researchers have found that personality disorders develop from a combination of genes and environmental effects on personality traits