The going rate for a puppy at a pet store--a puppy that, in all likelihood, came from a puppy mill--is anywhere from $500 to $1500. And you still have to pay for vaccinations and spaying or neutering on top of that. Rescue dogs are a bargain! 
It depends on the rescue. You have to realize that most rescues are really a big business. They get dogs at discount prices from the shelters, already spayed and neutered, and then have a HUGE mark up on the price. Rescues here in Southern California charge nearly as much for a dog as a reputable breeder. Here from a rescue near me... Donations range up to $750 depending on the age and breed. Should has nothing to do with it-generally a rescue would ask for a reasonable amount based on housing, feed, and vet care at the time in their area. It's usually the same for all dogs, barring some places ask more for pups or small dogs and less for larger dogs or adults. Our shelter fee is $250.
To these people I say, remember, you get what you pay for. When you purchase a purebred from a dog breeder you may be paying anywhere from $500 to over $1000 for your new puppy, but often that’s all your getting for that cost. When you adopt a dog from a shelter, your adoption fees are going to pay towards the cost of care your adopted dog has received while at the shelter. If you were to get your adopted dog spayed or neutered on your own it could cost you anywhere from $200-$500 plus depending on said variables. Shots. The cost of intake vaccinations for dogs to prevent Distemper, Parvo, Kennel Cough as well as rabies can cost approximately $40 for the animal shelter, if not more.
Report Abuse. Because in order to rescue the dog, the actual rescue has spent money. If you are adopting from a legitimate rescue they will have what is called 501(c)3 status. This means they are a not for profit organization and all money that comes in goes back into the care of the animals. The adoption fee will vary from rescue to rescue but you are not giving them anything when you pay the adoption fee. Some people get out paying less than the pup cost to remain in rescue while others may pay a little extra.
If $350 is too much, then take your chances with a shelter dog. Most shelters are around $100, or less for adult dogs. http://www.petfinder.com Or, save up another $1000 and start searching for a well-bred Siberian breeder. http://www.shca.org. Should has nothing to do with it-generally a rescue would ask for a reasonable amount based on housing, feed, and vet care at the time in their area. It's usually the same for all dogs, barring some places ask more for pups or small dogs and less for larger dogs or adults. Our shelter fee is $250.
Food, Shelter & Comfort. The cost to feed a dog for a month in an animal shelter can range greatly based on the resources of the shelter, but a general ballpark estimate is round $40-$60. This does not include special diets for dogs that need weight loss food or dog food for specific digestive needs. If you were to get your adopted dog spayed or neutered on your own it could cost you anywhere from $200-$500 plus depending on said variables. Shots. The cost of intake vaccinations for dogs to prevent Distemper, Parvo, Kennel Cough as well as rabies can cost approximately $40 for the animal shelter, if not more.
$350 dog isn't that expensive and for the expenses the shelter are require to pay, that is a very cheap and reasonable fee especial when rescues normal including collours, desexing, vacination, deworming vet check etc. Should has nothing to do with it-generally a rescue would ask for a reasonable amount based on housing, feed, and vet care at the time in their area. It's usually the same for all dogs, barring some places ask more for pups or small dogs and less for larger dogs or adults. Our shelter fee is $250.