Introduction. Sashimi is thinly sliced raw meat—usually fish, such as salmon or tuna—that is served without rice. Sushi is not raw fish, but rather vinegared rice that is mixed with other ingredients, which may or may not include raw fish. In some countries, the terms sashimi and sushi may be used interchangeably, but this is incorrect usage. Diffen › Food › Seafood. Sashimi is thinly sliced raw meat—usually fish, such as salmon or tuna—that is served without rice. Sushi is not raw fish, but rather vinegared rice that is mixed with other ingredients, which may or may not include raw fish.
The surimi process also is used to make turkey products. It is used to make turkey burgers, turkey sausage, turkey pastrami, turkey franks, turkey loafs and turkey salami. The industrialized surimi-making process was refined in 1969 by Nishitani Yōsuke of Japan's Hokkaidō Fisheries Experiment Institute to process the increased catch of fish, to revitalize Japan's fish industry, and to make use of what previously was considered fodder fish.
The process of making pork surimi is similar to making fish surimi except that leaner cuts of meat are used and rinsing is omitted. Pork surimi is made into pork balls (Chinese: gongwan; gòngwán 貢) 丸, which when, cooked have a texture similar to fish, balls but are much firmer and. denser The industrialized surimi-making process was refined in 1969 by Nishitani Yōsuke of Japan's Hokkaidō Fisheries Experiment Institute to process the increased catch of fish, to revitalize Japan's fish industry, and to make use of what previously was considered fodder fish.
Surimi (Japanese: 擂 り 身, すり身, literally  ground meat ) refers to a paste made from fish or other meat, as well as multiple Asian foods that use surimi as its primary ingredient. The industrialized surimi-making process was refined in 1969 by Nishitani Yōsuke of Japan's Hokkaidō Fisheries Experiment Institute to process the increased catch of fish, to revitalize Japan's fish industry, and to make use of what previously was considered fodder fish.
There are two main types of sushi, nigiri-zushi, which is vinegared rice hand-formed into oval shapes and topped with various raw and cooked seafood, and maki-zushi which is vinegared rice combined with seafood and vegetables then wrapped in an edible seaweed called nori and sliced into rounds. 
Generally used in California rolls and other maki, it’s not the same thing as “soft shell crab.” Although “surimi” is used outside of Japan, most Japanese people use the term Kani-Kama, short for Kani-Kamaboko. Sushi – (soo-shee)- Technically refers to the sweetened, seasoned rice. The fish is sashimi. Over the years we have tried to make this the most comprehensive list of terminology for foods one might find at a sushi restaurant. While we have worked hard, this list is by no means complete and we would love to hear any suggestion for additions from find in a Japanese
The red and white crab stick -- often referred to as imitation crab -- does indeed come from the sea. In Japanese, crab stick is called  surimi , which actually means ground meat.. It's kind of the ocean's version of the hot dog, if you need an analogy. Surimi is made of different kinds of fish, which are ground together into a paste. According to SF Gate, manufacturers add starch, artificial flavors, sodium and sometimes MSG. Because starch is often made from wheat, imitation crab meat is not gluten free.
Depending on the desired texture and flavor of the surimi product, the gelatinous paste is mixed with differing proportions of additives such as starch, egg white, salt, vegetable oil, humectants, sorbitol, sugar, soy protein, seasonings, and enhancers such as transglutaminases and monosodium glutamate (MSG). The industrialized surimi-making process was refined in 1969 by Nishitani Yōsuke of Japan's Hokkaidō Fisheries Experiment Institute to process the increased catch of fish, to revitalize Japan's fish industry, and to make use of what previously was considered fodder fish.
Fake crab meat is not as nutritious as real fish and seafood. Fake crab meat, also called imitation crab, does not contain any crab meat at all. Its Japanese name, surimi, actually means ground meat. Fake crab meat is made of various types of fish ground together into a paste. Imitation crab can be shaped to resemble crab legs or shrimps and is often used in Japanese fish salads and sushi because of its cheaper cost.