The way that is used depends on the number of syllables the adjective or adverb have: 1  Most one-syllable adjectives and adverbs take the ending-er. 2  Two-syllable adjectives ending in y form the comparative by taking the ending-er. 3  Other two-syllable adjectives use more + regular form to make the comparative. 1
If you mean the word 'little' as an adverb, the comparative is 'less' and the superlative is 'least'. If you mean the word 'little' as an abstract adjective, the comparative i … s 'less' or 'lesser' and the superlative is 'least'. However, if you mean 'little' as an adjective referring to the physical size of something, you would not use any of those forms. In grammar, the superlative is the form of an adverb or adjective that expresses a degree of the adverb or adjective being used that is greater than any other possible degree … of the given descriptor.
A superlative adverb is used to compare three or more people, places, or things. It’s used to state that the action performed is to the highest degree within a group or of its kind. They are sometimes preceded by the word “the” but not always. Examples of Superlative Adverbs. It’s often helpful to see adverbs in all their forms in order to get a clear idea of the degrees of comparison. Here is a list of several common adverbs in the positive, comparative, and superlative form.
Comparative: the second or middle degree of comparison in adjectives or adverbs. Superlative: the third or highest degree of comparison in adjectives or adverbs. The comparative and superlative degrees are formed by adding the-er and-est suffix to adjectives and adverbs with a single consonant for an ending.
A superlative is a form of an adjective or an adverb used for comparison. The superlative form of an adjective is used to show something has a quality to the greatest or least degree. The superlative form of an adverb is used to show something has performed an action to the greatest or least degree. Here are some examples of superlatives (shaded): In general, the superlative form of an adjective or adverb can be formed by: There are several spelling rules to consider though. See the table on the right. There are also a few irregular ones, and some of these are commonly used adjectives and adjectives.
SPI 0501.1.3 Identify the correct use of adjectives (i.e., common/proper, comparative forms, predicate adjectives) and adverbs (i.e., comparative forms, negatives) within context. Adjectives and adverbs are words that describe or modify other words. *The comparative form of an adjective or adverb compares two things. *The superlative form of an adjective or adverb compares three or more things. BrainPop Adjectives http://www.brainpop.com/english/grammar/adjectives/ Examples Adjectives large larger largest The first apple is large. 
Confidence votes 6.1K. If you mean the word 'little' as an adverb, the comparative is 'less' and the superlative is 'least'. If you mean the word 'little' as an abstract adjective, the comparative is 'less' or 'lesser' and the superlative is 'least'. However, if you mean 'little' as an adjective referring to the physical size of something, you would not use any of those forms. 
With longer adjectives and with adverbs ending in-ly, add more and most. : less and least are used with adjectives of any length (such as bright, less bright, least bright). : Do not use the-er form with more or the-est form with most. The following are irregular comparative and superlative forms. For short adjectives (with one syllable or two syllables ending in-y or-le) and one-syllable adverbs, add the ending-er for the comparative and-est for the superlative. (Change-y to-i if the-y is preceded by a consonant: icy, icier, iciest. ) Generally the is used before the superlative form
In grammar, the superlative is the form of an adverb or adjective that is used to signify the greatest degree of a given descriptor. English superlatives are typically formed with the suffix-est (e.g. healthiest, weakest) or the word most (most recent, most interesting). 