O Canada we stand on guard for thee Stained Glass, Yeo Hall, Royal Military College of Canada features arms of the Canadian provinces and territories (1965). The provinces and territories of Canada combine to make up the world's second-largest country by area. There are three territories in Canada. Unlike the provinces, the territories of Canada have no inherent jurisdiction and have only those powers delegated to them by the federal government.
Canadian Province & Territory Guides. The 10 Provinces and 3 Territories make up Canada's Federal Union but provide much than simple lines on a map. Each province and territory has very individual offerings to attract a variety of visitor
The ten provinces are Alberta, British Columbia, Manitoba, New Brunswick, Newfoundland and Labrador, Nova Scotia, Ontario, Prince Edward Island, Quebec, and Saskatchewan. The three territories are Northwest Territories, Nunavut, and Yukon. There are three territories in Canada. Unlike the provinces, the territories of Canada have no inherent jurisdiction and have only those powers delegated to them by the federal government.
Flags of Canada's provinces and territories. Canada consists of 13 political divisions: 10 provinces and 3 territories. The territories are Northwest Territories, Nunavut and Yukon. The major difference between a Canadian province and a Canadian territory is that a province is a creation of the Constitution Act (17 April 1982), while a territory is created by federal law.
In 1867, three provinces of British North America — New Brunswick, Nova Scotia and the Province of Canada (which, on the formation of Canada, was divided into Ontario and Quebec)—were united to form the new nation. There are three territories in Canada. Unlike the provinces, the territories of Canada have no inherent jurisdiction and have only those powers delegated to them by the federal government.
As a country, Canada has ten provinces and three territories. These subdivisions vary widely in both land and water area. The largest subdivision by land area is the territory of Nunavut. The largest subdivision by water area is the province of Quebec. The total area of a province or territory is the sum of its land area and its freshwater area. Areas are rounded to the nearest square kilometre or square mile. Percentages are given to the nearest tenth of a percent.
Print this map. Northwest Territories History. Originally known as the North-western Territories, this Canadian territory was first created in June 1870, when the Hudson's Bay Company ceded Rupert's Land and North-western Territories to the government of Canada. 
(Redirected from List of Canadian provinces and territories). Canada 's land is composed of thirteen parts: ten provinces and three territories. Canada is governed on the principles of a federation: the Provinces' governments share power with the Government of Canada (the federal government). The provinces are in the south of Canada, and the territories are in the north, where fewer people live. Here is a list of the provinces, and their standard abbreviations, with their capitals (the cities where their governments have their offices). Canada's capital city is Ottawa. Pacific Coast or West Coast.
Nunavut: The final territory to be formed in Canada was Nunavut on April 1, 1999. Nunavut is the largest of the three territories of Canada occupying about one fifth part of land mass of Canada. The two large islands in Canada are Ellesmere Island and Baffin Island. Iqaluit is the capital of Nunavut. The aboriginals called the Inuit consist of the major percentage of this territory s population. The territories of Canada are located in mainland Canada, latitude 60 degree north as well as in the west of Hudson Bay. It also includes areas extending from James Bay to Canadian Arctic Islands.