1. The lymphatic system consists of lymph vessels, lymph nodes and the lymph fluid itself. The lymph is not a closed system and is free flowing. The lymph fluid is formed when the blood plasma excretes out of the capillaries through capillary filtration. The remaining 3 liters is known as lymph and the lymph system carries it so that it can be absorbed back into the main blood stream. 1  So the lymph fluid is actually the fluid running between the blood capillaries. 2  It is actually the seeped blood plasma.
Introduction. Lymph, a fluid, is formed from interstitial fluid that is filtered into the lymph vessels. Lymph is transported through lymphatic vessels before eventually reentering the blood stream. Lymph transports lymphocytes and triacylglcerides. As fluid enters the tissue space from the blood stream pressure builds up in this space and as this hydrostatic pressure increases it causes the interstitial fluid to diffuse into the lymphatic capillaries once the interstitial fluid has entered the lymphatic capillaries it is called lymph.
1 The lymphatic system consists of lymph vessels, lymph nodes and the lymph fluid itself. 2  The lymph is not a closed system and is free flowing. 3  The lymph fluid is formed when the blood plasma excretes out of the capillaries through capillary filtration. The remaining 3 liters is known as lymph and the lymph system carries it so that it can be absorbed back into the main blood stream. 1  So the lymph fluid is actually the fluid running between the blood capillaries. 2  It is actually the seeped blood plasma.
Explain who lymph is formed and returned to the bloodstream. Lymph is formed from the absorbed fluids from cells in the capillary beds. The lymph vessels return this fluid, after undergoing filtration in lymph glands, into the subclavian veins. 
View full size image. The lymphatic system is a network of tissues and organs that help rid the body of toxins, waste and other unwanted materials. The primary function of the lymphatic system is to transport lymph, a fluid containing infection-fighting white blood cells, throughout the body. The lymphatic system primarily consists of lymphatic vessels, which are similar to the circulatory system's veins and capillaries.
Thus, lymph when formed is a watery clear liquid with the same composition as the interstitial fluid. However, as it flows through the lymph nodes it comes in contact with blood, and tends to accumulate more cells (particularly, lymphocytes) and proteins. Lymph contains white blood cells. In particular the lymph that leaves a lymph node is richer in lymphocytes. Likewise, the lymph formed in the human digestive system called chyle is rich in triglycerides (fat), and looks milky white.
Instructions. 1  The lymphatic system consists of lymph vessels, lymph nodes and the lymph fluid itself. 2  The lymph is not a closed system and is free flowing. 3  The lymph fluid is formed when the blood plasma excretes out of the capillaries through capillary filtration. The remaining 3 liters is known as lymph and the lymph system carries it so that it can be absorbed back into the main blood stream. 1  So the lymph fluid is actually the fluid running between the blood capillaries. 2  It is actually the seeped blood plasma.
Lymph. Lymph is a fluid that circulates throughout the body in the lymphatic system. It forms when tissue fluids/blood plasma (mostly water, with proteins and other dissolved substances) drain into the lymphatic system. It contains a high number of lymphocytes (white cells that fight infection)
Lymph. Lymph is the fluid that circulates throughout the lymphatic system. The lymph is formed when the interstitial fluid (the fluid which lies in the interstices of all body tissues) is collected through lymph capillaries. It is then transported through lymph vessels to lymph nodes before emptying ultimately into the right or the left subclavian vein, where it mixes back with blood. Lymph contains white blood cells. In particular the lymph that leaves a lymph node is richer in lymphocytes. Likewise, the lymph formed in the human digestive system called chyle is rich in triglycerides (fat), and looks milky white.