metabolism. 1. biotransformation. 2. the sum of the physical and chemical processes by which living organized substance is built up and maintained (anabolism), and by which large molecules are broken down into smaller molecules to make energy available to the organism (catabolism).
metabolism. sum of all biochemical processes involved in life. Two subcategories of metabolism are anabolism, the building up of complex organic molecules from simpler precursors, and catabolism catabolism, subdivision of metabolism involving all degradative chemical reactions in the living cell.
Metabolism: Converting food into energy. Metabolism is the process by which your body converts what you eat and drink into energy. During this complex biochemical process, calories in food and beverages are combined with oxygen to release the energy your body needs to function.
metabolism (m ·taˑ·b ·li·z m) , n the combined sum of the chemical processes occurring in a living organism. It is separated into anabolism, a process that results in the consumption of energy, and catabolism, a process that releases energy.
Metabolism. the sum total of chemical reactions that occur in the body. Metabolism is the organized sequence of chemical and energetic transformations that ensures the preservation and self-perpetuation of living systems.
metabolism. 1. the sum of all the physical and chemical processes by which living organized substance is produced and maintained (anabolism), and also the transformation by which energy is made available for the uses of the organism (catabolism). 2. biotransformation .metabol´ic,
Therefore, catabolism and anabolism are opposites of one another, and your overall metabolism is ultimately the sum total of all the anabolic and catabolic reactions that are happening within your body.
Metabolism is something that consists of both,' Catabolism,' and, 'Anabolism;' which are the buildup and breakdown of substances. Metabolism is a term used to refer particularly to the breakdown of food and its subsequent transformation into energy the person's body needs. In the field of Biology, Metabolism refers to all of the body's chemical processes, the digestion of food, and the elimination of waste.