When pink eye is caused by certain bacteria or viruses, the infected person can be contagious for several days to several weeks or more. Fortunately, people do not appear to be contagious during the incubation period  the time between when they are exposed and when pink eye symptoms begin. For example, the rubeola virus causing measles and accompanying pink eye symptoms is extremely contagious, often for as long as two weeks or more.*. You also can be continually at risk of getting pink eye from exposure to certain adenoviruses found in water sources such as unchlorinated or dirty swimming pools.
Please notify the School Nurse if your child is diagnosed with Chickenpox, Fifth Disease, Pink Eye, Strep Throat or any other communicable disease. • Pink Eye (Infectious Conjunctivitis) – for 24 hours from the first dose of antibiotic treatment. B acterial pink eye is associated with eye pain, yellow or greenish discharge, redness of the white part of the eye and swelling and eyelids may be stuck together after sleeping. It is highly contagious.
Staphylococci and Streptococci, among others, are types of bacteria that commonly cause pink eye. Symptoms of bacterial pink eye include: Viral pink eye. The leading cause of a red, inflamed eye is virus infection. Adenoviruses are the type of virus that are most commonly responsible for the infection. Viral pink eye symptoms are usually associated with more of a watery discharge that is not green or yellow in color. Often, viral cold-like symptoms, such as sinus congestion and runny nose, are also present. The eyelids may be swollen. Sometimes looking at bright lights is painful. 
Viral conjunctivitis is highly contagious. Most viruses that cause conjunctivitis are spread through hand-to-eye contact by hands or objects that are contaminated with the infectious virus. Hands can become contaminated by coming in contact with infectious tears, eye discharge, fecal matter, or respiratory discharges. Infectious conjunctivitis (viral or bacterial) can also be spread by large respiratory tract droplets. Bacterial conjunctivitis is less common in children older than 5 years of age. Globally, the bacterium Chlamydia trachomatis (trachoma) is the leading cause of preventable blindness of infectious origin.
Description of the disease and the efforts made to control it. Pink eye also is medically referred to as Conjunctivitis. The lining of the eye is usually clear if an infection occurs the eye lining becomes red and swells (Webmd2, 2005-2012). Pink Eye a Communicable Disease Essay. Below is a free essay on Pink Eye a Communicable Disease from Anti Essays, your source for free research papers, essays, and term paper examples.
Conjunctivitis can result from many causes. These causes include viruses, bacteria, allergens, contact lens use (especially the extended-wear type), chemicals, fungi, and certain diseases. Infectious conjunctivitis (viral or bacterial) can also be spread by large respiratory tract droplets. Bacterial conjunctivitis is less common in children older than 5 years of age. Globally, the bacterium Chlamydia trachomatis (trachoma) is the leading cause of preventable blindness of infectious origin.
Missouri Department of Health and Senior Services. Conjunctivitis, also known as “pink eye”, is one of the most common and treatable eye conditions in children and adults. It is an inflammation of the thin, clear lining inside the eyelid and on the white of the eye. 
Pink eye (conjunctivitis). Pink eye (conjunctivitis) is an inflammation or infection of the transparent membrane (conjunctiva) that lines your eyelid and covers the white part of your eyeball. When small blood vessels in the conjunctiva become inflamed, they're more visible. 
Pink eye (conjunctivitis) generally remains contagious as long as your child is experiencing tearing and matted eyes. Signs and symptoms of pink eye usually improve within three to seven days. When tearing and matted eyes are no longer present, it's appropriate for a child to return to school or child care. 
Communicable Disease Pink Eye. Pink eye also know as Conjunctivitis is a very common throughout our school systems, workplace, and community. There are many environmental risk factors that contribute to acquiring conjunctivitis. There are basically two different types of conjunctivitis and how it impacts everyone. Pink Eye a Communicable Disease Essay. Below is a free essay on Pink Eye a Communicable Disease from Anti Essays, your source for free research papers, essays, and term paper examples.