PHOTOS: Hollywood dads on duty. Simon Helberg and his wife Jocelyn Towne welcomed daughter Adeline on May 8, Helberg's rep confirms to Us Weekly exclusively. This is the first child for The Big Bang Theory star and his actress/writer/director wife.
In 2007, Helberg was cast as Howard Wolowitz, in the CBS comedy series The Big Bang Theory. Helberg married actress Jocelyn Towne on July 15, 2007.
Mini Bio (1). Simon Helberg was born and raised in Los Angeles but despite this, and the fact that his father is the actor Sandy Helberg and his mother the casting director Harriet B. Helberg, his main interest as a young boy was karate.
Born on December 9, 1980, in Los Angeles, California, actor Simon Helberg grew up in the entertainment industry. His father Sandy is an actor and writer and his mother Harriet is a casting director. In his early years, he was very interested in television.
Simon Helberg is an American actor born and raised in Los Angeles, California. And having an actor for a father and a mother who is a casting director, Simon was exposed to the acting world early in his childhood. Although his first passion was playing music, his interest… more.
Official Photos ». Simon Helberg was born and raised in Los Angeles but despite this, and the fact that his father is the actor Sandy Helberg and his mother the casting director Harriet B. Helberg, his main interest as a young boy was karate.
Big Bang baby! PHOTOS: Hollywood dads on duty. Simon Helberg and his wife Jocelyn Towne welcomed daughter Adeline on May 8, Helberg's rep confirms to Us Weekly exclusively. This is the first child for The Big Bang Theory star and his actress/writer/director wife. The family is thrilled, a source says.
Simon, with his wife Jocelyn Towne, welcomed their first child, daughter Adeline, born May 8, 2012. Wife, Jocelyn Towne, had their second child, a son, Wilder Towne Helberg was born on April 23, 2014. The birth was kept secret until June 2014. Only male cast member of The Big Bang Theory (2007) who is a father.