Fish that live in the pelagic zone are called pelagic fish. Pelagic life decreases with increasing depth. It is affected by light intensity, pressure, temperature, salinity, the supply of dissolved oxygen and nutrients, and the submarine topography, which is called bathymetry. Depending on the depth, the water column, rather like the Earth's atmosphere, can be divided into different layers. The pelagic zone occupies 1,330 million km 3 (320 million mi 3) with a mean depth of 3.68 km (2.29 mi) and maximum depth of 11 km (6.8 mi).
The pelagic zone can be contrasted with the benthic and demersal zones at the bottom of the sea. The benthic zone is the ecological region at the very bottom of the sea. It includes the sediment surface and some subsurface layers. Marine organisms living in this zone, such as clams and crabs, are called benthos. Depending on the depth, the water column, rather like the Earth's atmosphere, can be divided into different layers. The pelagic zone occupies 1,330 million km 3 (320 million mi 3) with a mean depth of 3.68 km (2.29 mi) and maximum depth of 11 km (6.8 mi).
Organisms of the Pelagic Zone. The organisms that make their home in the pelagic zone can be divide into three types, phytoplankton, zooplankton and nekton. Phytoplankton-these primary producers are the basis of the ocean's food chain. Epipelagic, or Sunlit Zone-this is the topmost layer of the pelagic zone, from the surface to a depth of about 200 meters (660 ft). It receives enough sunlight to support photosynthetic organisms such as seaweed and phytoplankton, and also has a high level of dissolved oxygen due to the action of the waves.
Plumbing the Ocean Depths. The open ocean makes up about 65 percent of ocean water. It is the water away from the coastal waters and contains a wide variety of life. The ocean can be divided into two basic areas: the benthic zone or ocean floor and the pelagic zone or ocean waters. The pelagic region is divided into three zones. The top zone is the euphotic or sunlit zone. This is the ocean zone that sunlight penetrates. Because this zone gets sunlight, photosynthesis can occur and plants can grow here. The sunlit zone goes down to about 660 feet. The next zone is the dysphotic or twilight zone.
The pelagic zone can be thought of in terms of an imaginary cylinder or water column that goes from the surface of the sea almost to the bottom. Conditions differ deeper in the water column; the pressure increases, the temperature drops and less light penetrates. Depending on the depth, the water column, rather like the Earth's atmosphere, can be divided into different layers. The pelagic zone occupies 1,330 million km 3 (320 million mi 3) with a mean depth of 3.68 km (2.29 mi) and maximum depth of 11 km (6.8 mi).
The Pelagic Zone. The word pelagic is derived from the Greek work pelagos, pélagos meaning open. Ocean it is the name for oceanic water not in direct contact with a shore or the. Bottom it is by far the largest aquatic biome terms of, volume but in comparison to many of the other, biomes it is a. desert
Marine Zone: are divisions of the ocean. Oceanographers divide the ocean into two basic parts; the pelagic or open ocean, and the benthic or sea floor. The pelagic is divided into five broad zones according to how far down sunlight penetrates:
Marine habitats can be broadly divided into pelagic and demersal habitats. Pelagic habitats are the habitats of the open water column, away from the bottom of the ocean. Demersal habitats are the habitats that are near or on the bottom of the ocean. An organism living in a pelagic habitat is said to be a pelagic organism, as in pelagic fish. Most marine life is found in coastal habitats, even though the shelf area occupies only seven percent of the total ocean area. Open ocean habitats are found in the deep ocean beyond the edge of the continental shelf. Alternatively, marine habitats can be
By Jennifer Kennedy. Pelagic Zone Background: The open ocean, or pelagic zone, is the area of the ocean outside of coastal areas, and where you’ll find some of the biggest marine life species. The sea floor (demersal zone) is not included in the pelagic zone. Different Zones in the Open Ocean: 