Peroneus Longus Muscle. The peroneus longus muscle, whose name means “long muscle of the fibula” is a major muscle of the lower leg that plantar flexes and everts the foot at the ankle. From its origin, it descends along the lateral edge of the leg as a thin strap of muscle in the lateral compartment of the leg.... Click to read more below
In human anatomy, the peroneus longus (also known as fibularis longus) is a superficial muscle in the lateral compartment of the leg, and acts to evert and plantar flex the ankle. The fibularis longus and brevis muscles plantar-flex the foot, in conjunction with the tibialis posterior, antagonizing the tibialis anterior and fibularis tertius, which are dorsi-flexors of the foot.
Medical Definition of LONGUS. : a long structure (as a muscle) in the body—see abductor pollicis longus, adductor longus, extensor carpi radialis longus, extensor digitorum longus, extensor hallucis longus, extensor pollicis longus, flexor digitorum longus, flexor hallucis longus, flexor pollicis longus, palmaris longus, peroneus longus.
What does the term brevis mean in anatomy. In contrast to longus.. For example: Extensor Carpi Radialis brevis. 
Hypernyms (musculus adductor longus is a kind of...): adductor; adductor muscle (a muscle that draws a body part toward the median line). Holonyms (musculus adductor longus is a part of...): thigh (the part of the leg between the hip and the knee). 
The peroneus longus muscle has its origin along the lateral edge of the head and proximal shaft of the fibula, just below the styloid process of the fibula. From its origin, it descends along the lateral edge of the leg as a thin strap of muscle in the lateral compartment of the leg.... Click to read more below. The peroneus longus muscle, whose name means “long muscle of the fibula” is a major muscle of the lower leg that plantar flexes and everts the foot at the ankle.
Longus is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 6 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Lon-gus. In the U.S. in 2014 less than 5 boys given the name. Less than 5 girls were given the name. View the Longus Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Longus has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Longus to other names. Longus is a variant spelling of Longinus
Then just follow the diagram below. Just for fun, see the name Longus in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Longus in Nautical Flags page. It consists of 6 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Lon-gus. In the U.S. in 2014 less than 5 boys given the name. Less than 5 girls were given the name. View the Longus Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Longus has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Longus to other names.
The terms Peroneus (i.e., Longus and Brevis) and Peroneal (i.e., Artery, Retinaculum) are derived from the Greek word Perone (pronounced Pair-uh-knee) meaning pin of a brooch or a buckle. In medical terminology, both terms refer to being of or relating to the fibula or to the outer portion of the leg. The fibularis longus and brevis muscles plantar-flex the foot, in conjunction with the tibialis posterior, antagonizing the tibialis anterior and fibularis tertius, which are dorsi-flexors of the foot.
The flexor digitorum longus is situated on the tibial side of the leg. At its origin it is thin and pointed, but it gradually increases in size as it descends. This muscle serves to curl the second, third, fourth, and fifth toes (flexion of phalanges II-V). 