DENVER — The United States Postal Service will accommodate the parade of people pursuing a postmark proving punctual posting of their 2012 tax returns on April 15, Tax Day. All area Post Office retail windows will be open with regular customer service hours on Monday. 
Northern Virginia Post Offices will not be extending business hours April 15, according to the Postal Service. In Northern Virginia, the Merrifield Post Office is open weekdays until 8 p.m. It’s located at 8409 Lee Highway, Merrifield, VA 22116; phone: 703-698-6356. Here are some mailing tips from the U.S. Postal Service, when it comes to mailing your tax return:
DETROIT (WXYZ) - Today is the last day to file your taxes, or an extension, to the IRS and unlike past years, the post office isn't staying open late. U.S. Postal Service locations will be open for their regular business hours today. In the past, many branches stayed open until midnight on Tax Day. 
3:07 AM, Apr 15, 2004. A number of Colorado post offices are staying open later to allow late filers to drop off their taxes. Main Post Office, 1905 15th St. -- Until midnight Valmont Station, 2995 55th St. -- Until midnight. Centennial Station, 2221 E. Arapahoe Road -- Until Midnight. General Mail Facility, 3655 E. Fountain Blvd. 
Post Offices Open Late on Tax Day in All 50 States (and D.C.). GOBankingRates has compiled a list of post offices offering extended hours on April 15 in every state to guide readers to the right locations to get their returns in on time. Failing to do so will result in a late tax return fine and other penalties from the IRS. On Tax Day, many post office hours are extended and special consideration is made for last-minute filers. But post offices' Tax Day hours might still be more limited in 2015 than in years past.
This year all Post Office locations will be open regular hours on April 15, the deadline to send in tax returns, but only one location will be open after hours. The Denver GMF retail facility located at 7500 East 53rd Place will be open until midnight. 
With tax day Monday, one Denver post office will be extending its hours to midnight to accommodate the parade of late drop-offs. All area post office retail windows will be open with regular customer service hours. The only location that will be open until midnight will be at 7500 E. 53rd Place. The following Denver locations will not have counter service, but will have drop-off collection boxes.
For more information about the Postal Service, go to usps.com and usps.com/postalfacts. Last-minute tax filers are likely to have one more item on their checklist – how to secure a coveted April 15th Postmark. On April 15, all area Post Office retail windows will be open for regular hours only. We will not be staying open late. However, if you absolutely must wait until the last minute to mail a return, the following offices will accept prepaid, prestamped tax returns for postmarking only. 
Paul Sakuma / AP. The post office will no longer be staying open late. In California, post offices will be open regular hours on Tax Day. That means if you want to get your taxes in on time, you have to mail them today before 5 p.m. Gus Ruiz with the U.S. Postal Service says so many taxpayers are filing electronically that this year there is no reason for post offices to stay
Kansas Post Office Hours on Tax Day. A Topeka post office is open until 7 p.m. and the main Wichita office has a late collection of 8:00 p.m. Those in the Kansas City area might want to consider referring to our Missouri section for extended Tax Day post office hours in their area. Failing to do so will result in a late tax return fine and other penalties from the IRS. On Tax Day, many post office hours are extended and special consideration is made for last-minute filers. But post offices' Tax Day hours might still be more limited in 2015 than in years past.