1. Altered predator-prey dynamics: The key survival strategy of Caribou is to live in areas that have few predators, especially wolves. Caribou’s unique adaptations allow them to live in habitat that is unsuitable for other prey such as elk and deer, and therefore less attractive to predators. Canadian populations of woodland caribou are listed under Canada’s Species at Risk Act (SARA) as Endangered (Atlantic-Gaspesie), Gaspésie (Threatened Southern mountain And), boreal And Special (Concern Northern). mountain
Caribou (North America) refers to any of several North American subspecies, ecotypes, populations, and herds of the species Rangifer tarandus. In North America caribou range in size from the smallest, the Peary caribou, to the largest, the boreal woodland caribou. The woodland caribou is the largest of the North American caribou subspecies. Their legs and heads are longer than the barren-ground caribou. Porcupine, the barren-ground Bluenose caribou herd, and woodland caribou all occupy Gwich'in land.
Some populations of the North American caribou, for example, many herds in the subspecies, the barren-ground caribou, and some woodland caribou in Ungava and Labrador, migrate the farthest of any terrestrial mammal, travelling up to 5,000 km (3,100 mi) a year, and covering1,000,000 km 2 (390,000 sq mi). The woodland caribou is the largest of the North American caribou subspecies. Their legs and heads are longer than the barren-ground caribou. Porcupine, the barren-ground Bluenose caribou herd, and woodland caribou all occupy Gwich'in land.
Woodland caribou in southeastern British Columbia, northeastern Washington, and northern Idaho are a unique ecotype of caribou distinguished from other woodland caribou by their winter diet consisting almost exclusively of arboreal lichens. 
usa | world | animals | vocabulary | health | science | math | history. Reindeer. The reindeer, known as caribou in North America, is an Arctic-dwelling deer (Rangifer tarandus). The reindeer is distributed throughout a number of northern locales. 
The reindeer (Rangifer tarandus), also known as caribou in North America, is a species of deer with circumpolar distribution, native to Arctic, Subarctic, tundra, boreal and mountainous regions of northern Europe, Siberia, and North America. This includes both sedentary and migratory populations. 
There are four living subspecies of R. tarandus, locally known in North America as caribou— R t. granti (Porcupine caribou), Rangifer tarandus caribou subdivided into ecotypes: woodland (boreal) , woodland (migratory) , woodland (montane), R t granti, R t groenlandicus and R t pearyi. The woodland caribou is the largest of the North American caribou subspecies. Their legs and heads are longer than the barren-ground caribou. Porcupine, the barren-ground Bluenose caribou herd, and woodland caribou all occupy Gwich'in land.
In most caribou subspecies, both males and females sexes grow antlers —unique among cervid species. Some R. t. caribou ecotype females do not have antlers. The antlers typically have two separate groups of points, a lower and upper. The woodland caribou is the largest of the North American caribou subspecies. Their legs and heads are longer than the barren-ground caribou. Porcupine, the barren-ground Bluenose caribou herd, and woodland caribou all occupy Gwich'in land.
Endangered. Size relative to a 6-ft (2-m) man: Caribou, also called reindeer, are found in northern regions of North America, Europe, Asia, and Greenland. As summer approaches, caribou herds head north in one of the world's great large-animal migrations. They may travel more than 600 miles (965 kilometers) along well trod annual routes. Caribou migrate north each summer in one of the greatest wildlife spectacles on Earth. Feeding mostly on grasses and plants in the summer, caribou eat lichen and mushrooms during winter.