Bird Symbolism and the Meaning of the Bird Symbol. Since times eternal birds have been associated with eternity and the heavens, due in most part to their connection with the sky. Birds have been thought of as a supernatural connection between heaven and the Earth. There are several bird species that have a symbolic meaning. This page will provide you with many birds that have symbolism involved in their meaning. In Asia and countries close to Asia, birds are associated with immortality. Here are some popular birds which are viewed as symbols of something in many cultures. 
As well as inside the home an image of the Crane is auspicious when displayed in the garden, inviting longevity and good health luck for the family. As in much of the bird world the Crane loves to dance, especially when looking to attract a mate. However, historically it has been observed that they also appear to dance for the pure joy and pleasure of it and if this is true it is something that is unique among the bird world. 
In Japan, the crane or tsuru, is a national treasure. It is the symbol of longevity and good luck because it was thought to have a life span of a thousand years. Tsuru are also monogamous, therefore, often used for wedding decor. Although there are many species of cranes, in Asia it’s usually the red crown crane that is depicted. The long white neck and torso, contrasting black legs and head is topped with a red crown. Their physical beauty is undeniable.. According to Wikipedia, the crane is the world’s tallest flying bird.
Cranes are a clade (Gruidae) of large, long-legged and long-necked birds in the group Gruiformes. There are fifteen species of crane in four genera. Unlike the similar-looking but unrelated herons, cranes fly with necks outstretched, not pulled back. Cranes live on all continents except Antarctica and South America. Cranes construct platform nests in shallow water, and typically lay two eggs at a time. Both parents help to rear the young, which remain with them until the next breeding season. Some species and populations of cranes migrate over long distances; others do not migrate at all.
photo by tetu. The crane is a majestic bird that is a favorite subject in many Asian paintings. Although there are many species of cranes, in Asia it’s usually the red crown crane that is depicted. The long white neck and torso, contrasting black legs and head is topped with a red crown. Their physical beauty is undeniable.. According to Wikipedia, the crane is the world’s tallest flying bird.
The Greek for crane is γερανος (Geranos), which gives us the cranesbill, or hardy geranium. The crane was a bird of omen. In the tale of Ibycus and the cranes, a thief attacked Ibycus (a poet of the 6th century BCE) and left him for dead. Cranes construct platform nests in shallow water, and typically lay two eggs at a time. Both parents help to rear the young, which remain with them until the next breeding season. Some species and populations of cranes migrate over long distances; others do not migrate at all.
The Crane, Stork, and Heron are three similar birds that have similar spiritual meaning. The Crane is considered a messenger of God, or a symbol of communion with God, or Light Beings. It represents entering higher states of consciousness. In China, it represents immortality, long life and happiness. The meaning of the dream depends on what a crane means to the individual dreamer or to that dreamer's culture and tradition. that means your social status is gonna go high.. … .. 5 people found this useful.
The longevity of the crane may also have caused it to be associated with a family tree or lineage. Our word pedigree may come from the French word for “foot of the crane,” or pied de grue. Legend has it that the crane’s legs grow before its wings do, suggesting that the bird has a strong tie to the ground. The crane is also associated with vigilance; it was said to keep watch on one leg while holding a stone in the other foot. Omens and divinatory meaning: If you see a crane flying, it may be drawing your eyes to the heavens, lifting your spirits, and inspiring you to trust in the universe. If you see it standing, it may be advising vigilance and alertness.
Of the four genera of crane, two, Balearica (two species) and Bugeranus (one species) are entirely restricted to Africa, and the third Anthropoides has one entirely African species and one species that is found in Africa, Asia and Europe. Cranes construct platform nests in shallow water, and typically lay two eggs at a time. Both parents help to rear the young, which remain with them until the next breeding season. Some species and populations of cranes migrate over long distances; others do not migrate at all.