Note: A prescription from a veterinarian is required to purchase these drugs. Horse Cocktail (for Iontophoresis): The horse cocktail is a mixture of 4mg/ml Dexamethasone (optional: 40mg/ml Depo Medrol) for the negative polarity and Sarapin for the positive polarity. Saline Solution can be used if necessary to completely fill the drug-delivery pad
What this drug is used for: 1  As an anti-inflammatory medication. 2  Dexamethasone relieves inflammation in various parts of the body. 3  It is used specifically to decrease swelling (edema), associated with tumors of the spine and brain, and to treat eye inflammation. 4  To treat or prevent allergic reactions. 1 If you are on a daily dose of dexamethasone (usually less than 10 mg), and you miss a dose, take the dose as soon as you remember. 2  If you are on high doses of dexamethasone (20 mg or 40 mg per day for 4 days out of the month), and you miss your dose, contact your healthcare provider.
Iontophoresis Drugs. Sarapin and Dexamethasone are the two drugs needed for iontophoresis. After receiving a prescription from your veterinarian you can purchase the drugs from these websites, which currently have the most competitive prices (as of 11/2011) . Sarapin: Sarapin is a regional anesethic that provides non-sedating pain relief. Horse Cocktail (for Iontophoresis): The horse cocktail is a mixture of 4mg/ml Dexamethasone (optional: 40mg/ml Depo Medrol) for the negative polarity and Sarapin for the positive polarity.
(Redirected from Dexamethasone sodium phosphate). Dexamethasone is a type of steroid medication. It is used in the treatment of rheumatic problems, a number of skin diseases, severe allergies, asthma, chronic obstructive lung disease, croup, brain swelling, and along with antibiotics in tuberculosis, among others. It is pregnancy category C in the United States and class A in Australia, meaning it has been frequently used in pregnancy and not been found to cause problems to the baby. It should not be taken when breastfeeding. Dexamethasone has anti-inflammatory and immunosuppressant effects. Dexamethasone was first made in 1957. It is on the WHO Model List of Essential Medicines, the most important medications needed in a basic health system. Dexamethasone is not expensive. In the United States a month of medication typically costs less than 25 USD. In India a course of treatment for preterm labor is about 0.5 USD
There are relatively few practitioners using iontophoresis in the UK, but in the USA it is a mainstream application. In Europe there are pockets of activity, and strong support from many practitioners. Iontophoresis is a technique which uses an electric current to deliver a medicine or other chemical through the skin. In popular (lay) terms it is sometimes called an injection without the needle.
In rehabilitation medicine, including physical therapy, iontophoresis is used to reduce inflammation that might be seen in musculoskeletal conditions such as lateral epicondylitis, medial epicondylitis, plantar fasciitis, tendo-nitis/bursitis, rheumatoid arthritis, and enthesopathic conditions of various origins. In this way, the clinical time component of this treatment is eliminated altogether and the patient gets a more sustained 24 hour effect. These mobile IontoPatches contain a small flat battery that provides a tiny electrical “push” of the target medication (e.g., dexamethasone; see Figure 2).
There are several drugs to choice from that are used for Iontophoresis: 1  Dexamethasone Sodium Phosphate is the most common. 2  Primarily used for tendonitis, bursitis arthritis spinal stenosis, acute sprains and strains. 1 Ketoprofen can be used when patients do not respond well to Dexamethasone or have plateaued in treatment. 2  Potassium Iodide (KI) 10% is recommended most for the treatment of scars and tendon adhesions. 3  The solution can soften and remove collagen which will allow the area to be molded and stretched.
Iontophoresis is the use of electricity to drive drugs through the skin. It is primarily used in physical therapy to decrease inflammation in a variety of diagnoses, primarily tendonitis, bursitis and post-operatively. The drugs used with iontophoresis must be ionizable; that is, they must become electrically charged when electricity is applied. Prior to the introduction of the wireless wearable patches, the common dosage amount was 40 mA/minutes. The dosage pre-set in these portable patches is 80 mA/minutes. The in-clinic devices (with wires!) that have been commonly used turn on at the standard 40 mA/minute dose but are adjustable up to
Iontophoresis for Inflammation. There are a number of drugs that can be driven into the subcutaneous tissues including steroids, NSAIDS, local anesthetics, salicylates, and individual substances such as zinc oxide, iodine, acetic acid, and calcium chloride, to name a few. In this way, the clinical time component of this treatment is eliminated altogether and the patient gets a more sustained 24 hour effect. These mobile IontoPatches contain a small flat battery that provides a tiny electrical “push” of the target medication (e.g., dexamethasone; see Figure 2).