UNO-United Nations Organisation. Founded in 1945 after the Second World War by 51 countries, committed to maintaining international peace and security, developing friendly relations among nations and promoting social progress, better living standards and human rights. 1  Available in 2 languages
As of 2003, The United Nations (UN) is an organization of 191 states that strives to attain international peace and security, promotes fundamental Human Rights and equal rights for men and women, and encourages social progress. 
1. United Nations-an organization of independent states formed in 1945 to promote international peace and security. UN. global organization, international organisation, international organization, world organisation, world organization-an international alliance involving many different countries. United Nations. n (functioning as singular or plural). 1. (Government, Politics & Diplomacy) an international organization of independent states, with its headquarters in New York City, that was formed in 1945 to promote peace and international cooperation
As of 2003, The United Nations (UN) is an organization of 191 states that strives to attain international peace and security, promotes fundamental Human Rights and equal rights for men and women, and encourages social progress. 
Mission. The United Nations Organisation is an international organisation founded in 1945 after the Second World War by 51 countries committed to maintaining international peace and security, developing friendly relations among nations and promoting social progress, better living standards and human rights. Founded in 1945 after the Second World War by 51 countries,
United Nations. The United Nations is an international organization founded in 1945 after the Second World War by 51 countries committed to maintaining international peace and security, developing friendly relations among nations and promoting social progress, better living standards and human rights. United Nations (UN)
The United Nations (UN) is an intergovernmental organisation established on 24 October 1945 to promote international cooperation. It replaced the League of Nations and the organisation was created following World War II to prevent another conflict. 
The United Nations is an international organization designed to make the enforcement of international law, security, economic development, social progress, and human rights easier for countries around the world. History and Principles of the United Nations. Prior to the United Nations (UN), the League of Nations was the international organization responsible for ensuring peace and cooperation between world nations. It was founded in 1919 to promote international cooperation and to achieve peace and security..
What we do. The United Nations is an international organization founded in 1945 and committed to maintaining international peace and security; developing friendly relations among nations; promoting social progress, better living standards and human rights. 
The United Nations (UN) is an intergovernmental organization to promote international co-operation. A replacement for the ineffective League of Nations, the organization was established on 24 October 1945 after World War II in order to prevent another such conflict. 