If you are on a public beach and the drift wood is less than 10 yards from the water you can collect drift wood to the best of my knowledge unless the wood is considered an endangered or otherwise restricted item, it most likely isn't as I'm sure your local paper would have covered that at some point. 10 yards would be a safe bet to collect anything from sanded glass, shells, driftwood or non-endangered sea creatures if you wish. You can eyeball the 10 yard measurement from the high tide mark as well.
Tweet. Driftwood on the Beach By: David In: Blog Comments: 0 People often ask about the driftwood on our local beaches. It certainly adds character to the shoreline. I was unable to find any regulations that generally prohibit the collection of such driftwood, although specific prohibitions may exist. 
Living landlocked in the Midwest, I can't stroll on the beach collecting driftwood. I wanted driftwood for my beach themed summer mantel, but the cost of purchasing and shipping the real thing was just too much for me. 
Now for the questions you raised. You can cut up a big driftwood log for firewood if it's on a non-park beach, and maybe on a park beach, too, if you ask permission, but either way you'll have to load it by hand. The man collecting firewood with a wheelbarrow at the state park is probably pushing the limits of the law. I've seen people who live near a state-park beach bring a wheelbarrow to the park, fill it with driftwood for their wood stove and push it back to their house. Is that legal? Can you collect little pieces of unusual wood for craft projects? — Carlos D., Grants Pass It all depends on where you are, Carlos.
1 What are the rules about collecting driftwood on Oregon beaches. 2  Can you just go out and cut up a big log for firewood? 3  I've seen people who live near a state-park beach bring a wheelbarrow to the park, fill it with driftwood for their wood stove and push it back to their house. Is that legal? Can you collect little pieces of unusual wood for craft projects? — Carlos D., Grants Pass It all depends on where you are, Carlos.
Go to the beach at low tide to collect dry driftwood. Collect the driftwood by boat if necessary. If an area receives a large amount of driftwood, then a small raft or boat will allow you to get closer to the shore but still reach driftwood which is further out. You can then load this into the boat and not have to worry about carrying larger pieces of wood. It is unlikely that these would be mistaken for driftwood. The Seattle Parks and Recreation Service states that Seattle Municipal Code 18.12.070 prohibits removal of driftwood from any Seattle park.. Isolated beaches away from urban areas are therefore acceptable and ideal places to collect
image by mdb from Fotolia.com. The Washington State Attorney General (see References), ruled that is fully legal for you to collect driftwood from a beach in Washington, with the exception of logs, piling poles and boom sticks.. It is unlikely that these would be mistaken for driftwood. The Seattle Parks and Recreation Service states that Seattle Municipal Code 18.12.070 prohibits removal of driftwood from any Seattle park.. Isolated beaches away from urban areas are therefore acceptable and ideal places to collect