Wine Gums This page is a tribute to the glorious Wine Gum, one of the true culinary wonders of the world. Since all the Wombies are such Wine Gum aficionados, they each wanted to contribute to this celebration of the world's most perfect candy. Fraz Wine Gums By Fraz Roses are red, violets are blue. I really like Wine Gums, and so should you! 
Therefore he called them “wine gums” and labeled them with wine names.”. Wine gums. Wine gums. Wine gums. I look for them wherever there is candy. They rock. And like those that decided to imbibe on Maynard the younger’s, I appreciate the fuck out of them. I can’t wait to get drunk on these. 
Depends what the diet is. (i.e if you're on a high calorie diet (which do exist), then yes, go for it!). However on a 'healthy eating' type diet, wine gums are fine in moder … ation, as are all other foods, so long as sweets do not regularly contribute to more than 5% of your food intake. 2 people found this useful.
Types of Flavors. Flavors of wine gums include port wine, champagne, burgundy, gin and even sherry. The candies also come in a variety of colors, including black, purple, orange, green and yellow. Wine gums are a sweet from the early 1900s that Charles Gordon Maynard, whose father operated a candy shop, invented.
Best Answer: ok, found this answer. hope it helps Wine gums originated in the UK. Charles Riley Maynard started his business in 1880 by producing confections in a candy kitchen with his brother Tom, while his wife Sarah Ann, served the customers. Maynard's candy grew steadily and was launched as a company in 1896. Maynard the younger wished to market his candies as being so good that they should be appreciated like a fine wine. Therefore he called them wine gums and labeled them with wine names. Source(s): http://www.hungrybrowser.com/phaedrus/m0...
In Sweden, the fish-shaped wine gums are called pastellfiskar (pale-colored fishes) and are distributed by Malaco; they also come in salmiak, a black salty licorice flavor that is evidently hugely popular in Sweden because it's everywhere. 
The Wine Gum Flavors Debate Wine Gums are a soft, gummy candy that are similar to, but chewier than, jujubes. While Wine Gums are widely available in the UK and in most British colonies or former colonies, they are often difficult to find in other countries like the United States. The Red Wine Gum. The red Wine Gum's flavour is red. Okay, so that's not really a flavour. Presumably, its flavour is that of a red colored-fruit: raspberry, strawberry, cherry, or red currant.
Wine gums (or winegums) are chewy, firm pastille-type sweets similar to gumdrops without the sugar coating, originating from the United Kingdom. All brands have their own recipes containing various sweeteners, flavourings, and colourings. Maynard's sweets grew steadily and was launched as a company in 1896. Maynard's Wine Gums were introduced in 1909 by Maynard's son Charles Gordon Maynard. Charles Riley Maynard nearly fired his son on the spot when the junior Maynard came up with the recipe for Maynard's Wine Gums.
The gums come in five shapes: kidney, crown, diamond, circle and rectangle, and are labeled with five names: port, sherry, champagne, burgundy and claret. They do not now, or have they ever, contained wine/ So... why are they called wine gums. There are two apocryphal stories told: One is that after hearing a fiery temperance sermon, Maynard the younger decided to market his candies as an aid to cutting down one's alcohol consumption. Therefore, he called them wine gums, and labeled them with wine names. Maynard the younger wished to market his candies as being so good that they should be appreciated like a fine wine. Therefore he called them wine gums and labeled them with wine names. Source(s): http://www.hungrybrowser.com/phaedrus/m0...