Drug addiction shares many features with other chronic illnesses, including a tendency to run in families (heritability), an onset and course that is influenced by environmental conditions and behavior, and the ability to respond to appropriate treatment, which may include long-term lifestyle modification. Genes can also play a role in protecting individuals from addiction. As with all complex diseases, environmental risk and protective factors interact with genetics to determine the course and outcome of disease.
For many decades it's been widely accepted that alcoholism (or addiction) is a disease. The disease concept is taught in addiction training programs and told to patients in treatment programs. It is unquestioned by public figures and the media. Addiction has very little in common with diseases. It is a group of behaviors, not an illness on its own. It cannot be explained by any disease process. Perhaps worst of all, calling addiction a disease interferes with exploring or accepting new understandings of the nature of addiction.
Addiction is a chronic disease similar to other chronic diseases such as type II diabetes, cancer, and cardiovascular disease. Human studies of addictive behaviors have clearly implicated both environmental and genetic influences, as well as interactions between the two. Genes can also play a role in protecting individuals from addiction. As with all complex diseases, environmental risk and protective factors interact with genetics to determine the course and outcome of disease.
Whether or not addiction is a disease has other consequences as well. If addiction is a disease, then it isn’t a moral failure or a character flaw. Although the results of addiction may be criminal charges and toxic behaviors, if it is a disease, the root cause cannot be blamed on a spiritual defect alone. 2007 – Then Senator Joe Biden introduced the “Recognizing Addiction as a Disease Act” in the U.S. Senate (similar legislation is simultaneously introduced in the House). The act was calendared and didn’t pass.
It is a disease of the brain. We believe addiction/alcoholism is a disease of the brain, triggered when a substance is introduced and fires receptors I the brain. It’s like a crouching tiger, waiting in the tall grass for some prey to come along. Obviously, without the prey, the tiger goes hungry. Without the substance, addiction does not occur
What people often underestimate is the complexity of drug addiction -- that it is a disease that impacts the brain, and because of that, stopping drug abuse is not simply a matter of willpower. Drug addiction is a brain disease because the abuse of drugs leads to changes in the structure and function of the brain.
The idea that addiction is a type of disease or disorder has a lot of adherents. This should not be surprising, as the loudest and strongest voices in the definitional wars come from the medical community. Doctors rely on categories to understand people’s problems, even problems of the mind. 
I agree that addiction is not a disease, but believe that it IS an illness. The reward-seeking element can rapidly disappear, even if this is what got an addict started in the first place. This is rapidly replaced by a physical need, mainly a need to avoid the intense pain of withdrawal. Addiction has very little in common with diseases. It is a group of behaviors, not an illness on its own. It cannot be explained by any disease process. Perhaps worst of all, calling addiction a disease interferes with exploring or accepting new understandings of the nature of addiction.
Drug addiction is a chronic, often relapsing brain disease that causes compulsive drug seeking and use, despite harmful consequences to the drug addict and those around them. Drug addiction is a brain disease because the abuse of drugs leads to changes in the structure and function of the brain.
Addiction is defined as a chronic, relapsing brain disease that is characterized by compulsive drug seeking and use, despite harmful consequences. † It is considered a brain disease because drugs change the brain—they change its structure and how it works. N. Volkow and H. Schelbert. Addiction is a lot like other diseases, such as heart disease. Both disrupt the normal, healthy functioning of the underlying organ, have serious harmful consequences, and are preventable and treatable, but if left untreated, can last a lifetime.