The dual agency definition is commonly referred to when a real estate agent is representing both buyer and seller in the same real estate transaction. 
DEFINITION of 'Broker-Dealer'. A person or firm in the business of buying and selling securities, operating as both a broker and a dealer, depending on the transaction. The term broker-dealer is used in U.S. securities regulation parlance to describe stock brokerages, because most of them act as both agents and principals. A brokerage acts as a broker (or agent) when it executes orders on behalf of clients, whereas it acts as a dealer (or principal) when it trades for its own account. 
The law of agency is an area of commercial law dealing with a set of contractual, quasi-contractual and non-contractual fiduciary relationships that involve a person, called the agent, that is authorized to act on behalf of another (called the principal) to create legal relations with a third party. This branch of law separates and regulates the relationships between: 1  agents and principals (internal relationship), known as the principal-agent relationship; 2  agents and the third parties with whom they deal on their principals' behalf (external relationship); and. 3  principals and the third parties when the agents deal
The law of agency is an area of commercial law dealing with a contractual or quasi-contractual, or non-contractual set of relationships when an agent is authorized to act on behalf of another (called the Principal) to create a legal relationship with a Third Party. Agency law refers to the relationship between a person, or agent, that acts on behalf of another person, company, or government, usually called the master or principal.
An agency relationship is fiduciary in nature, and the actions and words of an agent exchanged with a third party bind the principal. An agreement creating an agency relationship may be express or implied, and both the agent and principal may be either an individual or an entity, such as a corporation or partnership. Agency may arise when an employer (principal) and employee (agent), asks someone to make a delivery or names someone as an agent in a contract. The basic rule is that the principal becomes responsible for the acts of the agent, and the agent's acts are like those of the principal (Latin: respondeat superior).
Agency Law & Legal Definition. Agency law is concerned with any principal-agent relationship; a relationship in which one person has legal authority to act for another. The relationships generally associated with agency law include guardian-ward, executor or administrator-decedent, and employer-employee. Agency is an agreement, express, or implied, by which one of the parties, called the principal, entrusts to the other, called the agent, the management of some business; to be transacted in his name, or on his account, and by which the agent assumes to do the business and to render an account of it.
A consensual relationship created by contract or by law where one party, the principal, grants authority for another party, the agent, to act on behalf of and under the control of the principal to deal with a third party. Agency may arise when an employer (principal) and employee (agent), asks someone to make a delivery or names someone as an agent in a contract. The basic rule is that the principal becomes responsible for the acts of the agent, and the agent's acts are like those of the principal (Latin: respondeat superior).
n. the relationship of a person (called the agent) who acts on behalf of another person, company, or government, known as the principal. Agency may arise when an employer (principal) and employee (agent), asks someone to make a delivery or names someone as an agent in a contract. The basic rule is that the principal becomes responsible for the acts of the agent, and the agent's acts are like those of the principal (Latin: respondeat superior).