Marsden is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 7 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Mar-sden. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 9258 in baby name popularity for boys with 8 occurrences. Less than 5 girls were given the name. Then just follow the diagram below. Just for fun, see the name Marsden in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Marsden in Nautical Flags page.
English Meaning: The name Marsden is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Marsden is: From the marsh valley. SoulUrge Number: 6. Expression Number: 11. People with this name have a deep inner desire for a stable, loving family or community, and a need to work with others and to be appreciated.
You can use census records and voter lists to see where families with the Marsden surname lived over the years. While the questions in census records vary from place to place, and year to year, you can generally find information like name of household members, ages, birthplaces, residences, occupations, etc. Find out where people with the family name Marsden lived before coming to the United States. Using Ancestry, you can search through passenger arrival records, naturalization records, border crossings, emigration records, passport applications, and even convict transportation records.
English names generally consist of a given name, middle name and family name. Many English speaking countries have fairly flexible naming laws. This allows the multicultural families that live in these countries to merge the naming conventions of their faiths or previous nationalities with their current homeland. Then just follow the diagram below. Just for fun, see the name Marsden in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Marsden in Nautical Flags page.
The information for this chart came from the U.S. Immigration Collection at Ancestry. You can find out where the majority of the Marsden families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. 
Marsden /mars-den/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is of Old English origin, and the meaning of Marsden is swampy valley. Painter Marsden Hartley. Marsden is an uncommon first name for males but a very popular last name for all people (#6886 out of 150436, Top 5%). (2000 U.S. Census).
Marsden has 2 variants: Marsdin and Marsdon. Marsden is an uncommon first name for males but a very popular last name for all people (#6886 out of 150436, Top 5%). (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the birth name popularity of Marsden for boys. Marsden has yet to be recorded in the Top 1000 thus far. (2014 Birth Statistics)
Meaning of Marsden. English name. In English, the name Marsden means-from the marsh valley.The name Marsden originated as an English name. The name Marsden is most often used as a boy name or male name. English Name Meaning-from the marsh valley
This interesting surname is of Anglo Saxon origin, and is a locational name from places called Marsden in Lancashire, and the West Riding of Yorkshire, deriving from the Olde English pre 7th Century mearc meaning boundary, and denu, valley; hence, a valley forming a natural boundary. The first recorded spelling of the family name is shown to be that of Alan de Marchesden, which was dated 1246, witness in the Assize Court Rolls of Lancashire, during the reign of King Henry 111, known as The Frenchman, 1216 - 1272.