So if the veterans received $100/month for the 20% rating but should have received $150/month for the 30% rating, the VA Disability Back Pay will be $50/month (150 – 100 = 50) times the number of months the change applies. If, however, Ben submits his VA Disability Claim 13 months after he separates, and the VA takes 16 months (unfortunately not unusual) to reach their Rating Decision, he will only receive 16 months of VA Disability Back Pay.
I was just received 100% va disability. How long does it take to get back pay? My letter from Va, says back pay will be with the first Va pay. I have had 2 va disability checks, but on backpay. 
Disability Compensation. Disability compensation is a monthly tax-free benefit paid to Veterans who are at least 10% disabled because of injuries or diseases that were incurred in or aggravated during active duty, active duty for training, or inactive duty training. 
SSDI. You will receive the backpay, and possibly retroactive benefits (payments from your disability onset date to your application date), as one lump-sum payment if you were approved for Social Security disability (SSDI). If you were approved for both SSI and SSDI, the section below applies to you.
VA Disability Back Pay is paid in one single payment, so depending on the length of time it takes for the VA to come to their rating decision, the VA Disability Back Pay a veteran receives could be fairly substantial. If, however, Ben submits his VA Disability Claim 13 months after he separates, and the VA takes 16 months (unfortunately not unusual) to reach their Rating Decision, he will only receive 16 months of VA Disability Back Pay.
A veteran’s date of eligibility for VA Disability Back Pay is determined in one of two ways. First, if the veteran submits his VA Disability Claim within one year of his date of separation, his date of eligibility for VA Disability Back Pay is his date of separation. If, however, Ben submits his VA Disability Claim 13 months after he separates, and the VA takes 16 months (unfortunately not unusual) to reach their Rating Decision, he will only receive 16 months of VA Disability Back Pay.
This is within the 1-year mark, so his date of eligibility for VA Disability Back Pay is his date of separation. It takes another 9 months before the VA’s Rating Decision is reached. Ben will receive VA Disability Back Pay for the entire 18 months between his date of separation and the VA’s rating decision. If, however, Ben submits his VA Disability Claim 13 months after he separates, and the VA takes 16 months (unfortunately not unusual) to reach their Rating Decision, he will only receive 16 months of VA Disability Back Pay.