Trade dress also is a type of mark. Trade dress refers to the overall image or impression of a product (the product's look, and feel), and/or the way in which the product is packaged and presented to consumers. The law governing marks essentially is consistent, regardless of the kind of product or service identified, or the nature or appearance of the mark employed. However, marks often are categorized according to the type of identification involved. The most commonly encountered categories are trademarks, service marks, and trade dress. Trade names are not marks, although a trademark owner should know something about them
Collective Marks. A collective mark is a mark used by individuals and businesses to indicate membership in an association, union, collective or cooperative. It is used to indicate that a product or service adheres to the standards of that organization or provides a set of benefits unique to that association. Trademarks include any word, name, symbol, logo or device. Basically, it is a brand name and advertising tool. A service mark is used to identify and distinguish the provider of one service from another.
A Note on Trade Names. Trade names are not marks. A trade name is a word, name, term, symbol, or combination of these, used to identify a business and its goodwill. Whereas, a mark identifies the goods or services of a company, a trade name identifies the company itself. The law governing marks essentially is consistent, regardless of the kind of product or service identified, or the nature or appearance of the mark employed. However, marks often are categorized according to the type of identification involved. The most commonly encountered categories are trademarks, service marks, and trade dress. Trade names are not marks, although a trademark owner should know something about them
A trademark, trade mark, or trade-mark is a recognizable sign, design, or expression which identifies products or services of a particular source from those of others, although trademarks used to identify services are usually called service marks. Specialized types of trademark include certification marks, collective trademarks and defensive trademarks. A trademark which is popularly used to describe a product or service (rather than to distinguish the product or services from those of third parties) is sometimes known as a genericized trademark.
Mark is a common male given name and is derived from old Latin Mart-kos, which means consecrated to the god Mars, and also may mean God of war or to be warlike. Marcus was one of the three most common given names in Ancient Rome. See Roman given names. Mark is a form of the name Marcus. Saint Mark was the author of the second Gospel in the New Testament.
A trademark is a type of mark. Traditionally, the term, trademark, described only marks designating products, or .  (as opposed to services). Increasingly, however, the word is used to describe any type of mark, not just traditional trademarks.. The law governing marks essentially is consistent, regardless of the kind of product or service identified, or the nature or appearance of the mark employed. However, marks often are categorized according to the type of identification involved. The most commonly encountered categories are trademarks, service marks, and trade dress. Trade names are not marks, although a trademark owner should know something about them
Trademarks and Service Marks. A trademark is used to connect the producer or inventor of an item to the product, such as associating Coca-Cola with caramel colored soft drinks. Trademarks include any word, name, symbol, logo or device. Basically, it is a brand name and advertising tool. A service mark is used to identify and distinguish the provider of one service from another.
IMAGE: Advertisement. The term trademark is commonly used to describe many different types of devices that label, identify, and distinguish products or services in the markeplace. The basic purpose of all these devices is to inform potential customers of the origin and quality of the underlying products or services. A collective mark is a symbol, label, word, phrase, or other mark used by members of a group or organization to identify goods, members, products, or services they render. Collective marks are often used to show membership in a union, association, or other organization