You’ve got to do your cardio for muscle building goals. It doesn’t matter who you are, your background, your current body fat levels, or your age. Cardio is a requirement. If you want to be healthy, do the minimal amount of cardio during muscle building cycles — never cut it out completely. I want you to start and finish every muscle building cycle with 2 to 3 cardiovascular sessions per week for 30 minutes each session of medium intensity cardio. If you are past the beginner stage and have been doing medium intensity cardio for a few months, you can experiment with HIIT for 20 minute sessions.
In conclusion…. The muscle building cardio strategy is to keep cardio to a minimum. The number of cardio sessions per week is 2 to 3 for a duration of 30 minutes each session. Extremely skinny people who have trouble gaining weight can do 2, 30 minute sessions per week. I want you to start and finish every muscle building cycle with 2 to 3 cardiovascular sessions per week for 30 minutes each session of medium intensity cardio. If you are past the beginner stage and have been doing medium intensity cardio for a few months, you can experiment with HIIT for 20 minute sessions.
The general rule is not to do any more cardio than you need. Most bodybuilders usually find that 30-40 minutes of cardio, four to five days a week, is about the limit for burning calories and increasing definition, while maintaining size. Figure fitness athletes usually do three days a week but more high intensity interval training. 
Cardio 101 For Muscle Building: How Much, How Often, How Intense. I f you’re currently look to add some lean muscle to your frame, one thing that you may be wondering about is the connection between cardio and weight training. You often hear very many mixed messages when it comes to cardio and muscle building. Some people believe that it’s a great addition to a good workout program yet others state that all it’ll do is hold you back from reaching your end goal. But what you do have to worry about is the simple fact that cardio definitely does burn calories. And, to build muscle you need a calorie surplus so if you’re burning off 400 calories each cardio session, that means you have to add 400 more calories to your diet in order to still make muscle building progress.
Training To Gain Muscle. If you're training to lose fat, you're going to need to do more cardio than someone who is training to gain muscle. A good starting point is three times per week, 20 to 30 minutes per session. Depending on the other factors we're going to discuss, you may need more or less than this. You should train with weights at least three times per week, up to even six times if you can recover from it and still make progress. If you are training for a specific sport, how many cardio sessions you need will depend greatly on the cardiovascular and muscle mass and strength requirements of your sport.
The point at which the added cardio will impair your strength gains and muscle growth will depend on your genetics and conditioning, but a safe recommendation is no more than 2-3 sessions of cardio each week, for no longer than 30 minutes. And the best way to do that is to lift heavy weights, as discussed here: https://www.muscleforlife.com /the-hardgainers-guide-to-guaranteed-muscle-growth/. And it’s also worth noting that if you’re below 15% body fat, you should keep yourself in a mild caloric surplus to maximize muscle growth.