Install Ubuntu via Wubi. This method is technically installing Linux, not running Linux software on Windows. You’ll have to reboot each time you want to use your Linux system just as if you had installed it in a standard dual-boot configuration.
It’s not a way to run existing Linux software on Windows — the software will have to be recompiled. However, much software has already been recompiled. Cygwin will give you a Linux-like terminal and command-line environment with many of the command-line programs you may already be used to.
Virtual machines allow you to run any operating system in a window on your desktop. You can install the free VirtualBox or VMware Player, download an ISO file for a Linux distribution such as Ubuntu, and install that Linux distribution inside the virtual machine like you would install it on a standard computer.
When you run Windows XP Mode the first time, a full desktop will open and you can use it to install applications. Installed applications will automatically appear on the Windows 7 Start Menu. Thereafter, users can start applications in Windows XP Mode simply by clicking the application shortcut on the
You could even try using VirtualBox’s seamless mode or VMware’s unity mode to run Linux applications directly on your desktop — they’ll be running in the virtual machine, but their windows will be present on your Windows desktop instead of trapped in a single virtual machine window.
Linux users often want to run Windows software on Linux, but Windows users may want to run Linux software, too. Whether you’re looking for a better development environment or powerful command-line tools, you can run Linux software without leaving Windows.
When a virtual machine is in Unity mode, you can access the virtual machine’s Start menu (for Windows virtual machines) or Applications menu (for Linux virtual machines) by pointing to one of the following locations: •. On Windows hosts, point to the Start menu.
That's all there is to it. Once you have your Linux running the way you want, you can use Chrome OS and Linux running in tandem. I think you'll find it a very powerful combination. I know I have.
The Linux kernel Version 2.6 (which was introduced in late 2003) is preemptive. That is, a process running in kernel mode can be suspended in order to run a different process. This can be an important benefit for real time applications (i.e., systems which must respond to external events nearly simultaneously).