Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is a safe, noninvasive test that creates detailed pictures of your organs and tissues. Noninvasive means that no surgery is done and no instruments are inserted into your body. MRI uses radio waves, magnets, and a computer to create pictures of your organs and tissues. Unlike other imaging tests, MRI doesn't use ionizing radiation or carry any risk of causing cancer.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is a noninvasive medical test that physicians use to diagnose and treat medical conditions. MRI uses a powerful magnetic field, radio frequency pulses and a computer to produce detailed pictures of organs, soft tissues, bone and virtually all other internal body structures. MRI does not use ionizing radiation (x-rays). Detailed MR images allow physicians to evaluate various parts of the body and determine the presence of certain diseases. The images can then be examined on a computer monitor, transmitted electronically, printed or copied to a CD.
Radiology uses imaging technologies, such as X-ray radiography, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), nuclear medicine, ultrasound, computed tomography (CT), and positron emission tomography (PET) to see within the human body in order to diagnose disease and abnormalities. Clinical radiology refers to the use of radiology to diagnose and/or treat injury or disease. Radiology is a key part of clinical practice across a wide range of medical disciplines. It is usually the best, minimally invasive way of diagnosing, treating or monitoring disease and injury.
Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI). Guide. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is a test that uses a magnetic field and pulses of radio wave energy to make pictures of organs and structures inside the body. In many cases, MRI gives different information about structures in the body than can be seen with an X-ray, ultrasound, or computed tomography (CT) scan. Why It Is Done. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is done for many reasons. It is used to find problems such as tumors, bleeding, injury, blood vessel diseases, or infection. MRI also may be done to provide more information about a problem seen on an X-ray, ultrasound scan, or CT scan.
Part of the Hardware glossary: Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is a method of obtaining images of the interiors of objects, especially living things such as humans and animals. It does not use ionizing radiation such as X-ray s. 
Radiologists use a variety of imaging techniques such as X-ray radiography, ultrasound, computed tomography (CT), nuclear medicine including positron emission tomography (PET), and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to diagnose and/or treat diseases. The acquisition of medical imaging is usually carried out by the radiographer, often known as a radiologic technologist. Depending on location, the diagnostic radiologist, or reporting radiographer, then interprets or reads the images and produces a report of their findings and impression or diagnosis.
Benefits. 1  MRI is a noninvasive imaging technique that does not involve exposure to ionizing radiation. 2  MR images of the soft-tissue structures of the body—such as the heart, liver and many other organs— is more likely in some instances to identify and accurately characterize diseases than other imaging methods. MRI does not use ionizing radiation (x-rays). Detailed MR images allow physicians to evaluate various parts of the body and determine the presence of certain diseases. The images can then be examined on a computer monitor, transmitted electronically, printed or copied to a CD.
What is MRI? Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is a noninvasive test that uses a magnetic field and radiofrequency waves to create detailed pictures of organs and structures inside your body. 1 MRI uses a powerful magnetic field, radiofrequency waves, and a computer to create detailed cross-sectional (2-dimensional) and 3-dimensional images of the inside of your body without using ionizing radiation (like X-rays, computed tomography, or nuclear imaging).
Radiology is a medical specialty that uses imaging to diagnose and treat diseases seen within the body. The acquisition of medical imaging is usually carried out by the radiographer, often known as a radiologic technologist. Depending on location, the diagnostic radiologist, or reporting radiographer, then interprets or reads the images and produces a report of their findings and impression or diagnosis.