I´ve got answer from Kia that the song is Nothing without you and the singer is Slizzy Bob from Germany. I´ve listen to him but I can´t find the title on his records and I don´t think it is he who sings it. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Hello! I´ve got answer from Kia that the song is Nothing without you and the singer is Slizzy Bob from Germany. I´ve listen to him but I can´t find the title on his records and I don´t think it is he who sings it. Hope you can find the right song.
. Without You  is a song written by Pete Ham and Tom Evans of British rock group Badfinger, and first released on their 1970 album No Dice. The song has been recorded by over 180 artists, and versions released as singles by Harry Nilsson (1971) and Mariah Carey (1994) became international best-sellers. Nilsson's version of Without You was used as the opening tune to the 1979 feature film Porridge. In the film Casino, the Nilsson version is playing during one of Ginger's manic episodes. In the film The Rules of Attraction, a college girl commits suicide in a bathtub while this song plays on the soundtrack.
First recorded by the rock group Badfinger, the song was composed by two of its members. Two streams, referring to real events in the songwriters' lives flowed together to create the song. Pete Ham had written a song originally titled If It's Love but it had lacked a strong chorus. Nilsson's version of Without You was used as the opening tune to the 1979 feature film Porridge. In the film Casino, the Nilsson version is playing during one of Ginger's manic episodes. In the film The Rules of Attraction, a college girl commits suicide in a bathtub while this song plays on the soundtrack.
Music Video. Without You is track #5 on the album Nothing But the Beat [Explicit]. It was written by Tuinfort, Giorgio / Cruz, Taio / Butler, Richard / Raymond, Usher / Riesterer, Frederic / Guetta, David. I am lost, I am vain, I will never be the same without you, without you. Without you. Songwriters. TUINFORT, GIORGIO / CRUZ, TAIO / BUTLER, RICHARD / RAYMOND, USHER / RIESTERER, FREDERIC / GUETTA, DAVID. Published by. Lyrics © Sony/ATV Music Publishing LLC, SHAPIRO BERNSTEIN & CO.
[Chorus]. I am lost, I am vain, I will never be the same without you, without you. Without you. Songwriters. TUINFORT, GIORGIO / CRUZ, TAIO / BUTLER, RICHARD / RAYMOND, USHER / RIESTERER, FREDERIC / GUETTA, DAVID. Published by. Lyrics © Sony/ATV Music Publishing LLC, SHAPIRO BERNSTEIN & CO.
. Without You  is a song by French DJ David Guetta, featuring vocals from American recording artist Usher. It was released as the third single from Guetta's fifth studio album, Nothing but the Beat on September 27, 2011. Lyrically, it is a song about lamenting a heavy kundy: Life without someone who means the world to you. Amy Sciarretto of Pop Crush wrote that the chorus invite lots of dancing, but this isn't much of clubby rager.
After first listening to these lyrics I thought this new song from Keith Urban had to be self written. To my surprise, Without You, was not written by Keith, but the lyrics still seem to fit his life perfectly and I’m sure that’s why he chose to record the song. Without You is about love for a woman that’s stood by the narrator’s side. In this case Keith sings about traveling, singing, and doing all the great things that comes with his life, but he acknowledges it all means nothing without his family. It’s his wife and his now two kids. Without You actually seems to have quite simple music in the background.
Without You  is a song written by Pete Ham and Tom Evans of British rock group Badfinger, and first released on their 1970 album No Dice. Nilsson's version of Without You was used as the opening tune to the 1979 feature film Porridge. In the film Casino, the Nilsson version is playing during one of Ginger's manic episodes. In the film The Rules of Attraction, a college girl commits suicide in a bathtub while this song plays on the soundtrack.
Composition [edit]. Without You was written by Usher Raymond, Rico Love, Taio Cruz, David Guetta, Giorgio Tuinfort and Frederic Frédéric, riesterer and produced By, Guetta tuinfort And. Riesterer, lyrically it is a song about lamenting a heavy: Kundy life without someone who means the world to. you Lyrically, it is a song about lamenting a heavy kundy: Life without someone who means the world to you. Amy Sciarretto of Pop Crush wrote that the chorus invite lots of dancing, but this isn't much of clubby rager.