People with achondroplasia have short stature, with an average adult height of 131 centimeters (52 inches) for males and 123 centimeters (48 inches) for females. Achondroplastic adults are known to be as short as 62.8 cm (24.7 in). 
Achondroplasia is a group of rare genetic (inherited) bone disorders. Achondroplasia is the most common type of what was once called dwarfism, in which the child's arms and legs are short in proportion to body length. The head is often large and the trunk is normal size. The average height of adult males with achondroplasia is about 52 inches (or 4 feet, 4 inches)
Achondroplasia is a bone growth disorder that causes disproportionate dwarfism. Dwarfism is defined as a condition of short stature as an adult. People with achondroplasia are short in stature with a normal sized torso and short limbs. It is the most common type of disproportionate dwarfism. The disorder occurs in approximately one in 25,000 live births, according to the Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia (CHOP). It is as common in males as females.
All people with achondroplasia have short stature. The average height of an adult male with achondroplasia is 131 centimeters (4 feet, 4 inches), and the average height for adult females is 124 centimeters (4 feet, 1 inch). In the remaining cases, people with achondroplasia have inherited an altered FGFR3 gene from one or two affected parents. Individuals who inherit two altered copies of this gene typically have a severe form of achondroplasia that causes extreme shortening of the bones and an underdeveloped rib cage.
1 Achondroplasia is a genetic disorder of bone growth. 2  Achondroplasia is the cause of the most common type of dwarfism (short-limbed disproportionate dwarfism). 3  Achondroplasia is the most common cause of short stature with disproportionately short limbs. 4  The appearance of the person with achondroplasia is characteristic. 1 Achondroplasia is the cause of the most common type of dwarfism (short-limbed disproportionate dwarfism). 2  Achondroplasia is the most common cause of short stature with disproportionately short limbs. 3  The appearance of the person with achondroplasia is characteristic. 4  Intelligence is normal in people with achondroplasia
The most common cause of dwarfism is a disorder called achondroplasia, which causes disproportionately short stature. This disorder usually results in the following: 1  An average-size trunk. 
Skeletal dysplasias are conditions of abnormal bone growth that cause disproportionate dwarfism. They include: Achondroplasia. The most common form of dwarfism, achondroplasia occurs in about one out of 26,000 to 40,000 babies and is evident at birth. People with achondroplasia have a relatively long trunk and shortened upper parts of their arms and legs. Other features of achondroplasia include: 1  a large head with a prominent forehead. 
Achondroplasia in children is the most common form of dwarfism; it accounts for about 70% of all cases of dwarfism. Achondroplasia falls into the category of “disproportionate dwarfism”. 