Invest in a well-made bird scale and keep a log of your bird's weight every day. Any time you notice a fluctuation from your bird's normal weight amounting to an ounce or more in either direction, your best bet is to check with your avian vet to make sure that your bird's diet is on the right track. Answer: There are several things that you can do to help a bird gain weight, but the very first thing that should be done if you suspect weight loss in your bird is to schedule an appointment with your avian vet to get a full check up done as soon as possible.
The United States Department of Agriculture sizing is based by weight per dozen. The most common U.S. size of chicken egg is 'Large' and is the egg size commonly referred to for recipes. The following egg masses have been calculated on the basis of the USDA sizing: 
Another thing that you can do to help your bird put on some weight is to offer some extra sunflower seeds either in his dinner or as treats throughout the day. Also high in fat and protein, these tasty little things are a favorite of many hookbills. You should have no trouble coercing your bird into gobbling them up. Answer: There are several things that you can do to help a bird gain weight, but the very first thing that should be done if you suspect weight loss in your bird is to schedule an appointment with your avian vet to get a full check up done as soon as possible.
The U.S. Customary System consists of: ounces, pounds and tons 16 oz = 1 lb 2000 lb = 1 ton The Metric System consists of: kilograms, grams (the base unit) and milligrams 1 kg = 1000 g 1 g = 1000 mg Just to give an idea of mass... The mass of a paperclip is about 1 gram and the mass of a textbook is about 1 kg. In addition, 1 kg is about 2.2 lbs. The mass of a paperclip is about 1 gram and the mass of a textbook is about 1 kg. In addition, 1 kg is about 2.2 lbs. Click here to practice identifying mass within the U.S. Customary System and the Metric System. To determine mass we can use one of two systems-the U.S. Customary System and the Metric System. The U.S. Customary System consists of: ounces, pounds and tons 16 oz = 1 lb 2000 lb = 1 ton.
Answer #1:   If you weighed 100 pounds on Earth, you would not weigh anything on  the Sun.   This is because the Sun is so hot you would burst into flames  before yo … u even   got close enough to it. weighs 28.028 times as much as it would  on Earth.    In particular, a bunch of roiling, churning, incandescant gas that  would weigh   100 pounds on Earth weighs 2,803 pounds  when it's on the sun at that exact   depth.
The most common pet parakeet is the budgerigar whose … ideal weight is about 30-40 grams.     There are dozens of parrot species that are referred to as parakeets.. The most commonly kept species is the budgerigar (Melopsittacus undulatus) also known as the budgie. weighs 28.028 times as much as it would  on Earth.    In particular, a bunch of roiling, churning, incandescant gas that  would weigh   100 pounds on Earth weighs 2,803 pounds  when it's on the sun at that exact   depth.
Bird measurement or bird biometrics are approaches to quantify the size of birds in scientific studies. The measurements of the lengths of specific parts and the weights of birds varies between species, populations within species, between the sexes and depending on age and condition. In birds of prey the measurement is usually from the bill tip to the ceres. In some birds the distance between the back of the skull and the tip of the beak may be more suitable and less prone to variation resulting from the difficulty of interpreting the feathered base of the mandible.
Confidence votes 1.1K. There are many different types of parakeets and therefore many different 'ideal weights'. The most common pet parakeet is the budgerigar whose ideal weight is about 30-40 grams. There are dozens of parrot species that are referred to as parakeets.. However for an adult woman of 5'5 , in general the weight shou … ld be around 120 to 140 pounds. The variation is permissible due to consideration of difference in muscles and bones. Also other factors such occupation heredity etc. make difference.
This depends on what your fitness level is, and also what you're going to do with it. Usually I would recommend women to start with 8 or 10 kg (18 or 22 lb) and men 12 to 16 k … g (26-35 lb). 1 person found this useful. 1  Basic Care for Your Parakeet Parakeets are small members of the parrot family. However for an adult woman of 5'5 , in general the weight shou … ld be around 120 to 140 pounds. The variation is permissible due to consideration of difference in muscles and bones. Also other factors such occupation heredity etc. make difference.
So any mass at that depth on the sun ... and  there's   certainly plenty of it ... weighs 28.028 times as much as it would  on Earth.    In particular, a bunch of roiling, churning, incandescant gas that  would weigh   100 pounds on Earth weighs 2,803 pounds  when it's on the sun at that exact   depth.