Impressionism is a 19th-century art movement that originated with a group of Paris-based artists whose independent exhibitions brought them to prominence during the 1870s and 1880s. Musical Impressionism is the name given to a movement in European classical music that arose in the late 19th century and continued into the middle of the 20th century. Originating in France, musical Impressionism is characterized by suggestion and atmosphere, and eschews the emotional excesses of the Romantic era.
He died in 1926. Still, we can say that Impressionism as a style continues in the work of some artists to this very day. Some artists who exhibited with the Impressionists in the 1870s and 1880s pushed their art into different directions. 
History Art History. General Overview. Impressionism began in France when a group of young and talented artists decided to rebel against the established art critics, called the Salon in France, and form a new style of painting all their own. Impressionists wanted to capture a moment in time
Impressionism emerged in France at the same time that a number of other painters, including the Italian artists known as the Macchiaioli, and Winslow Homer in the United States, were also exploring plein-air painting. The Impressionists, however, developed new techniques specific to the style. Musical Impressionism is the name given to a movement in European classical music that arose in the late 19th century and continued into the middle of the 20th century. Originating in France, musical Impressionism is characterized by suggestion and atmosphere, and eschews the emotional excesses of the Romantic era.
The Impressionist Movement began around 1870 in France and always stayed a typical French movement. The name 'Impressionism' was introduced by an art critic in 1974 when Monet exhibited his work Impression soleil levant. 
Impressionism was an art movement of the 19th century, which began as a private association of Paris-based artists who exhibited publicly in 1874. copyright 2015 - artinthepicture.com. 
Alfred Sisley. Alfred Sisley was an English Impressionist landscape painter who spent much of his life working in France. As an enthusiast of plein air painting, Sisley was among the group of artists that included Monet, Renoir and Pissarro who dedicated themselves to capturing the transient effects of sunlight. Edouard Manet was a French painter and a prominent figure in the mid-nineteenth-century Realist movement of French art. Manet's paintings are considered among the first works of art in the modern era, due to his rough painting style and absence of idealism in his figures. Manet was a close friend of and major influence on younger artists who founded Impressionism such as Claude Monet, Edgar Degas and Pierre-Auguste Renoir
Impressionism is a style of painting which began in France in the late 19th century. Impressionist painting shows life-like subjects painted in a broad, rapid style, with brushstrokes that are easily seen and colours that are often bright. The term 'impressionism' comes from a painting by Claude Monet, which he showed in an exhibition with the name Impression, soleil levant (Impression, Sunrise). An art critic called Louis Leroy saw the exhibition and wrote a review in which he said that all the paintings were just impressions. The word stuck.
Claude Monet, Impression, Sunrise, (1872), oil on canvas, Musee Musée. Marmottan impressionism is a style of painting which began In france in the late 19th. Century impressionist painting shows-life like subjects painted in a, broad rapid, style with brushstrokes that are easily seen and colours that are often. bright The term 'impressionism' comes from a painting by Claude Monet, which he showed in an exhibition with the name Impression, soleil levant (Impression, Sunrise). An art critic called Louis Leroy saw the exhibition and wrote a review in which he said that all the paintings were just impressions. The word stuck.