HALAL / HARAM INGREDIENTS. Some of the Emulsifiers found in canned and packaged food are sometimes made from an unlawful (haram) source(s). The following is a list of the codes and a brief description of the Haram emulsifiers (starting with the 'E' prefix) that should be avoided: 
Sardines, or pilchards, are common names used to refer to various small, oily fish within the herring family of Clupeidae. The term sardine was first used in English during the early 15th century and may come from the Mediterranean island of Sardinia, around which sardines were once abundant. Fresh sardines are often grilled, pickled or smoked, or preserved in cans. Sardines are rich in vitamins and minerals. A small serving of sardines once a day can provide 13 percent of vitamin B2; roughly one-quarter of niacin; and about 150 percent of the recommended daily value of vitamin B12.
Q. What kind of marine animals are Halal? A. It is not permissible to eat from marine animals anything except fish that has scale; shrimp is considered from that category (of permissible sea animals). But other than fish, like lobster, and similarly the fish that does not have scale is forbidden. However, since the fish in question (Hoki) does not lose its scales because of a secondary/external factor rather it loses them as a natural process -- it would be better to exercise precaution and not include this fish in the halal list.
A. It is not permissible since the food, as mentioned in the question, will be considered impure (najis) because of coming into contact with the wet parts from the steam of the impure meat. Q. Commercial fishing vessels place their huge nets [in the sea] and catch tons of fish which are then sold in the markets. However, since the fish in question (Hoki) does not lose its scales because of a secondary/external factor rather it loses them as a natural process -- it would be better to exercise precaution and not include this fish in the halal list.
A. It is not permissible to eat from marine animals anything except fish that has scale; shrimp is considered from that category (of permissible sea animals). But other than fish, like lobster, and similarly the fish that does not have scale is forbidden. 
Eat any fish that has scales, and do not eat what does not have scales.. (Imam Baqir a.s) [al-Kolayni, al-Kaafi, vol.6 p. 219]. However, since the fish in question (Hoki) does not lose its scales because of a secondary/external factor rather it loses them as a natural process -- it would be better to exercise precaution and not include this fish in the halal list.
Halal Fish – Fish with Scales. According to the grand majority of Scholars in the School of Ahlulbait, Fish with Scales and Prawns are the only Seafood Halal to eat. List of Halal Fish names in English, Arabic, French and Latin. 
The terms sardine and pilchard are not precise, and what is meant depends on the region. The United Kingdom's Sea Fish Industry Authority, for example, classifies sardines as young pilchards. One criterion suggests fish shorter in length than 15 cm (6 in) are sardines, and larger ones pilchards. Fresh sardines are often grilled, pickled or smoked, or preserved in cans. Sardines are rich in vitamins and minerals. A small serving of sardines once a day can provide 13 percent of vitamin B2; roughly one-quarter of niacin; and about 150 percent of the recommended daily value of vitamin B12.
A. There is no problem in buying it from Muslims or non-Muslims; as there is no problem in eating it, if they are satisfied that the fish was caught by the method mentioned above and that it belongs to the category of scale fish. However, since the fish in question (Hoki) does not lose its scales because of a secondary/external factor rather it loses them as a natural process -- it would be better to exercise precaution and not include this fish in the halal list.