Please advice. The length of time it takes to recover from bacterial prostatitis depends on whether your condition is acute or chronic. A bout of acute bacterial prostatitis tends to be over quite quickly, you usually feel better a couple of weeks after treatment. Chronic bacterial prostatitis can be more difficult to treat and symptoms may come and go over a long period of time. Once the patients with acute bacterial prostatitis take the treatment with our traditional Chinese medicine Diuretic and Anti-inflammatory Pills, they will be definitely cured in only ten days
Prostatitis is most often caused by a bacterial infection of the prostate gland. Any bacteria that can cause a urinary tract infection can cause acute bacterial prostatitis. Some sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) can cause bacterial prostatitis. These include chlamydia and gonorrhea. Back to Top Treatment. Antibiotics are often used to treat prostate infections. 1  For acute prostatitis, you will take antibiotics for 4 to 6 weeks. 2  For chronic prostatitis, you will take antibiotics for at least 4 to 6 weeks. 3  Because the infection can come back, you may need to take medicine for up to 12 weeks
1 For acute prostatitis, you will take antibiotics for 4 to 6 weeks. 2  For chronic prostatitis, you will take antibiotics for at least 4 to 6 weeks. 3  Because the infection can come back, you may need to take medicine for up to 12 weeks. Back to Top Treatment. Antibiotics are often used to treat prostate infections. 1  For acute prostatitis, you will take antibiotics for 4 to 6 weeks. 2  For chronic prostatitis, you will take antibiotics for at least 4 to 6 weeks.
Prostatitis is often described as an infection of the prostate. It can also be an inflammation with no sign of infection. Just 5% to 10% of cases are caused by bacterial infection. It does not raise the risk of getting prostate cancer. 1 It's often difficult to find the bacteria in the urine. 2  Treatment includes antibiotics for four to 12 weeks and other treatment for pain. 3  Sometimes men are given suppressive low-dose, long-duration antibiotic therapy. 4  Chronic nonbacterial prostatitis/ chronic pelvic pain syndrome.
Treatment for prostatitis usually begins with taking an antibiotic for several weeks. If you begin to feel better, you may have to take the medicine for 2 to 3 months. If you do not get better while taking antibiotics, more tests may be done. Antibiotics are given for 6 to 12 weeks. Long-term antibiotic treatment may be needed if the infection returns. 1  Infected prostate stones (prostatic calculi) can make the infection more difficult to cure. 2  They may need to be surgically removed.
Chronic bacterial prostatitis. Treatment for chronic bacterial prostatitis is aimed at curing the infection and preventing complications. Antibiotics are given for 6 to 12 weeks. Long-term antibiotic treatment may be needed if the infection returns. 1  Infected prostate stones (prostatic calculi) can make the infection more difficult to cure. 2  They may need to be surgically removed.
An antibiotic is used to treat prostatitis that is caused by an infection. Some antibiotics that might be used are trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole, doxycycline, ciprofloxacin, norfloxacin and ofloxin. You might have to take antibiotics for several weeks or even a few months. Men who have had prostatitis once are more likely to get it again. Antibiotics may not get into the prostate gland well. Small amounts of bacteria might “hide” in the prostate and not be killed by the antibiotic. Once you stop taking the antibiotic, the infection can get bad again.
For chronic bacterial prostatitis, you'll need to take antibiotics longer, most often for 4 to 12 weeks. About 3 in 4 of chronic bacterial prostatitis cases clear up with this treatment. Sometimes the symptoms return and antibiotics are needed again. For cases that don't react to this treatment, long-term, low dose antibiotics are used to ease the symptoms.