The Mississippi River. The Mississippi River is the second-longest river in the United States; the longest is the Missouri River, which flows into the Mississippi. Taken together, they form the largest river system in North America. With its source Lake Itasca at 1475 feet (450 m) above sea level in Itasca State Park in northern Minnesota, the river falls to 725 feet (220 m) just below Saint Anthony Falls in Minneapolis. The Mississippi is joined by the Illinois River and the Missouri River at Saint Louis, and by the Ohio at Cairo, Illinois.
Between the Rockies in the West and the Appalachians in the East is a large lowland area called the Interior Plains. The dry western part of the Interior Plains is called the Great Plains. This treeless plateau gently rises from the central lowlands to the foothills of the Rocky Mountains. 
Best Answer: The Louisiana Purchase (French: Vente de la Louisiane Sale of Louisiana) was the acquisition by the United States of America of 828,800 square miles (2,147,000 km2) of the French territory Louisiana in 1803. Texas claimed but never controlled parts of present-day Colorado, Kansas, New Mexico, Oklahoma, and Wyoming, which became parts of other territories of the United States in the Compromise of 1850.
Volcanoes continue to add area to the island of Hawaii. Back. The Missouri River is the longest of the tributaries of the Mississippi. It flows from Montana, through North Dakota, picks up the Platte River, and flows into the Mississippi on the border between Missouri and Illinois. Back. 
The Mississippi River watershed drains a large portion of the land area between the Appalachian Mountains to the east and the Rocky Mountains to the west and carries that water and its contents through many states before discharging it into the Gulf of Mexico. View Mississippi Drainage Area map. Have students label the rivers (or you may provide the names of the rivers on the map) and the states associated with the rivers. Some of the major rivers that feed the Mississippi River are the Ohio, Red, Platte, Missouri, Arkansas, Tennessee, and Yellowstone.
The Atchafalaya River in Louisiana is a major distributary of the Mississippi. The Mississippi River, looking south toward the city of St. Louis.(courtesy USGS). The Mississippi drains most of the area between the Rocky Mountains and the Appalachian Mountains, except for the area drained by the Great Lakes. With its source Lake Itasca at 1475 feet (450 m) above sea level in Itasca State Park in northern Minnesota, the river falls to 725 feet (220 m) just below Saint Anthony Falls in Minneapolis. The Mississippi is joined by the Illinois River and the Missouri River at Saint Louis, and by the Ohio at Cairo, Illinois.
The Mississippi River is west from the Rocky Mountains. The Rocky Mountains are on the western coast of the USA, and the Mississippi river is in the middle of the USA. Therefo … re, the Mississippi River is west from the Rocky Mountains. 3 people found this useful. 1 Forestry 101: The Most Common Trees of the Rocky Mountains The Rocky Mountains are North America's most impressive mountain range. 2  Often referred to as the backbone of the continent, they span more than 3,000 miles from New Mexico to….
The Great Plains is the huge expanse of flatlands from the Rocky  Mountains eastward to the Mississippi River. The area also may be  referred to as the American Plains. 11 people found this useful. Edit. 1 Forestry 101: The Most Common Trees of the Rocky Mountains The Rocky Mountains are North America's most impressive mountain range. 2  Often referred to as the backbone of the continent, they span more than 3,000 miles from New Mexico to….
The Mississippi River is west from the Rocky Mountains. The Rocky Mountains are on the western coast of the USA, and the Mississippi river is in the middle of the USA. Therefo … re, the Mississippi River is west from the Rocky Mountains. 3 people found this useful. The Great Plains is the huge expanse of flatlands from the Rocky  Mountains eastward to the Mississippi River. The area also may be  referred to as the American Plains.