But the numbers are still going up, so there probably will be more.. Talc is the softest-known mineral and talcum powder has been used for decades as a lubricant, in cosmetics and for personal hygiene. Johnson's baby powder was one of the company's original products and has been sold for more than a 100 years. 
Talcum powder is made from the soft mineral talc. Besides talcum  powder, the mineral is used in food, cosmetics and electric cable. 
When talking about whether or not talcum powder is linked to cancer, it is important to distinguish between talc that contains asbestos and talc that is asbestos-free. Talc that has asbestos is generally accepted as being able to cause cancer if it is inhaled. This type of talc is not used in modern consumer products. In its natural form, some talc contains asbestos, a substance known to cause cancers in and around the lungs when inhaled (see our document Asbestos). All talcum products used in homes in the United States have been asbestos-free since the 1970s.
Best Answer: A mineral called talc. It's the softest mineral known, with a Moh's hardness of 1 - in other words, you can make a nice deep scratch in it with a fingernail. Grind up talc, wash it well, dry it out again, and you have talcum powder. Source(s): University mineralogy lab course. 
Most people are familiar with the mineral talc. It can be crushed into a white powder that is widely known as talcum powder. This powder has the ability to absorb moisture, absorb oils, absorb odor, serve as a lubricant and produce an astringent effect with human skin. Most people use products made from talc every day, however, they don't realize that talc is in the product or the special role that it plays. In 2011, about 26% of the talc consumed in the United States was used in the manufacturing of plastics.
Talc is a mineral that is most often found in the metamorphic rocks of convergent plate boundaries. It forms from at least two processes. Most large talc deposits in the United States formed when heated waters carrying dissolved magnesium and silica reacted with dolomitic marbles. Most people use products made from talc every day, however, they don't realize that talc is in the product or the special role that it plays. In 2011, about 26% of the talc consumed in the United States was used in the manufacturing of plastics.
Talc finds use as a cosmetic (talcum powder), as a lubricant, and as a filler in paper manufacture. Talc is used in baby powder, an astringent powder used for preventing rashes on the area covered by a diaper. It is also often used in basketball to keep a player's hands dry. Most tailor's chalk, or French chalk, is talc, as is the chalk often used for welding or metalworking
Talcum powder is made from talc, a mineral made up mainly of the elements magnesium, silicon, and oxygen. As a powder, it absorbs moisture well and helps cut down on friction, making it useful for keeping skin dry and helping to prevent rashes. In its natural form, some talc contains asbestos, a substance known to cause cancers in and around the lungs when inhaled (see our document Asbestos). All talcum products used in homes in the United States have been asbestos-free since the 1970s.
Talc is a metamorphic mineral resulting from the metamorphism of magnesian minerals such as serpentine, pyroxene, amphibole, olivine, in the presence of carbon dioxide and water. This is known as talc carbonation or steatization and produces a suite of rocks known as talc carbonates. Talc is used in baby powder, an astringent powder used for preventing rashes on the area covered by a diaper. It is also often used in basketball to keep a player's hands dry.
Talcum Powder and Cancer What is talcum powder? Talcum powder is made from talc, a mineral made up mainly of the elements magnesium, silicon, and oxygen. As a powder, it absorbs moisture well and helps cut down on friction, making it useful for keeping skin dry and helping to prevent rashes. 