A spear is a pole weapon consisting of a shaft, usually of wood, with a pointed head. The head may be simply the sharpened end of the shaft itself, as is the case with bamboo spears, or it may be made of a more durable material fastened to the shaft, such as flint, obsidian, iron, steel or bronze. Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: spear (Noun). A long stick with a sharp tip used as a weapon for throwing or thrusting, or anything used to make a thrusting motion.
spear 1. n. 1. A weapon consisting of a long shaft with a sharply pointed end. 2. A shaft with a sharp point and barbs for spearing fish. 3. A soldier armed with a spear. v. speared, spear·ing, spears. v. tr. 1. To pierce with a spear or other sharp object. 2. To catch with a thrust of the arm: spear a grounder. 3. a. Football To block (an opponent) by ramming with the helmet, in violation of the rules. b. Sports To jab (an opponent) with the blade of a hockey stick, in violation of the rules. v. in
The noun SPEAR has 2 senses: 1. a long pointed rod used as a weapon. 2. an implement with a shaft and barbed point used for catching fish. Familiarity information: SPEAR used as a noun is rare. harpoon (a spear with a shaft and barbed point for throwing; used for catching large fish or whales; a strong line is attached to it). leister (a spear with three or more prongs; used for spearing fish (especially salmon)).
Definition of SPEAR for Kids. 1. : a weapon with a long straight handle and sharp head or blade used for throwing or jabbing. 2. : an instrument with a sharp point and curved hooks used in stabbing fish. Definition of SPEAR. 1. : a thrusting or throwing weapon with long shaft and sharp head or blade.
Definition of SPEARHEAD for Kids. 1. : the head or point of a spear. 2. : the person, thing, or group that is the leading force (as in a development or an attack). 
Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of spear): harpoon (a spear with a shaft and barbed point for throwing; used for catching large fish or whales; a strong line is attached to it). leister (a spear with three or more prongs; used for spearing fish (especially salmon)).
A spear is a pole weapon consisting of a shaft, usually of wood, with a pointed head. The head may be simply the sharpened end of the shaft itself, as is the case with fire hardened spears, or it may be made of a more durable material fastened to the shaft, such as flint, obsidian, iron, steel or bronze. The spear has been used throughout human history both as a hunting and fishing tool and as a weapon. Along with the axe, knife, and club it is one of the earliest and most important tools developed by early humans. As a weapon, it may be wielded with either one hand or two
In English, the name Spear means-spear.The name Spear originated as an English name. The name Spear is most often used as a boy name or male name. English Name Meaning-spear. 
Hypernyms (spear is a kind of...): arm; weapon; weapon system (any instrument or instrumentality used in fighting or hunting). Meronyms (parts of spear): barb (a subsidiary point facing opposite from the main point that makes an arrowhead or spear hard to remove). harpoon (a spear with a shaft and barbed point for throwing; used for catching large fish or whales; a strong line is attached to it). leister (a spear with three or more prongs; used for spearing fish (especially salmon)).