Definition: A diploid cell is a cell that contains two sets of chromosomes. One set of chromosomes is donated from each parent. Examples: The diploid number of a cell is the number of chromosomes in the cell. This number is commonly abbreviated as 2n, where n stands for the number of chromosomes. For humans this equation would be 2n=46.
Supplement. An example of a cell in a diploid state is a somatic cell. In humans, the somatic cells typically contain 46 chromosomes in contrast to human haploid gametes (egg and sperm cells) that have only 23 chromosomes. Word origin: from Greek diplous, double + -OID. (Science: genetics, cell biology). A cell or an organism consisting of two sets of chromosomes: usually, one set from the mother and another set from the father. In a diploid state the haploid number is doubled, thus, this condition is also known as 2n. adjective.
The gametic or haploid number (n) is the number of chromosomes in a gamete. Two gametes form a diploid zygote with twice this number (2 n, the zygotic or diploid number) i.e. two copies of autosomal chromosomes. For humans, a diploid species, n = 23. A typical human somatic cell contains 46 chromosomes: 2 complete haploid sets, which make up 23 homologous chromosome pairs.
Diploid is a cell or organism that has paired chromosomes, one from each parent. In humans, cells other than human sex cells, are diploid and have 23 pairs of chromosomes. Human sex cells (egg and sperm cells) contain a single set of chromosomes and are known as haploid. 
Haploid and diploid are terms which refer to the number of copies of a chromosome that are found in the genome of an organism. In humans, for example, there are two copies of each (of our 23) chromosomes. Thus, we are diploid. If there is only one copy of a chromosome, this is called haploid. Human sex cells as well as most plant sex cells (sperm/ pollen, ovum/ oval) are haploid.
There are two types of cells in the body-haploid cells and diploid cells. The difference between haploid and diploid cells is related to the number of chromosomes that the cell contains. Definition. Since ploidy refers to the number of sets of chromosomes in a biological cell, a cell containing two sets of chromosomes comes to be known as a diploid cell. Humans have a total of 23 pairs of chromosomes, which brings it to a total of 46.
adj. Having two sets of chromosomes or double the haploid number of chromosomes in the germ cell, with one member of each chromosome pair derived from the ovum and one from the spermatazoon. The diploid number, 46 in humans, is the normal chromosome complement of an organism's somatic cells. n. A diploid organism or cell
Diploid cells contain two complete sets (2n) of chromosomes. Haploid cells have half the number of chromosomes (n) as diploid-i.e. a haploid cell contains only one complete set of chromosomes. Cell Division and Growth. Diploid cells reproduce by mitosis making daughter cells that are exact replicas. Definition. Since ploidy refers to the number of sets of chromosomes in a biological cell, a cell containing two sets of chromosomes comes to be known as a diploid cell. Humans have a total of 23 pairs of chromosomes, which brings it to a total of 46.
Reproductive cells, meanwhile, are the only haploid type of cells in the human body. “Diploid” refers to cells that contain two sets of chromosomes. Each set of these chromosomes are exactly the same with the other cell. The prefix “di” in “diploid” means “two,” and this refers to the two sets of chromosomes. Haploid cells contain only one set of chromosomes while tetraploid cells contain four sets. Genes or genetic components are part of cells including diploid cells. When a particular diploid cell, for example, divides, the resulting cells will also have the sam