Discrimination based on skin color, or colorism, is a form of prejudice or discrimination in which human beings are treated differently based on the social meanings attached to skin color. Colorism, a term coined by Alice Walker in 1982, is not a synonym of racism. The skin color paradox refers to the fact that no matter how differently African Americans are treated based on their skin color, their political and cultural attitudes about blackness as a form of identity and their feelings of relatedness and solidarity with other blacks tend to remain consistent.
Definition. Self-mutilation is a general term for a variety of forms of intentional self-harm without the wish to die. Cutting one's skin with razors or knives is the most common pattern of self-mutilation. self-mutilation. 1. destructive, disfiguring actions toward one's own body. 2. a nursing diagnosis accepted by the North American Nursing Diagnosis Association, defined as deliberate self-injurious behavior causing tissue damage with the intent of causing nonfatal injury to attain relief of tension.
Noun. 1. complexion-the coloring of a person's face. skin color, skin colour. color, coloring, colouring, colour-a visual attribute of things that results from the light they emit or transmit or reflect; a white color is made up of many different wavelengths of light. See also skin. achromasia. absence of pigmentation in the skin. chlorosis. greensickness; a disease of girls in puberty, characterized by, among other symptoms, greenishness of the complexion. erythrism. a redness of beard and hair and ruddiness of complexion. — erythristic, erythrismal, adj.
com•plex•ion. 1. the natural color, texture, and appearance of the skin, esp. of the face. 2. appearance; aspect; character: This testimony put a different complexion on things. 3. viewpoint, attitude, or conviction: one's political complexion. See also skin. achromasia. absence of pigmentation in the skin. chlorosis. greensickness; a disease of girls in puberty, characterized by, among other symptoms, greenishness of the complexion. erythrism. a redness of beard and hair and ruddiness of complexion. — erythristic, erythrismal, adj.
Self-injury, also called self-harm or self-mutilation, is defined as any intentional injury to one's own body. Usually, self-injury leaves marks or causes tissue damage. Self-injury can involve any of the following behaviors: 1  Cutting. 2  Burning (or branding with hot objects). 
In order for a form of discrimination to be considered colorism, differential treatment must not result from racial categorization, but from the social values associated with skin color. Colorism can be found specifically in parts of Africa, Southeast Asia, East Asia, India, Latin America, and the United States. The skin color paradox refers to the fact that no matter how differently African Americans are treated based on their skin color, their political and cultural attitudes about blackness as a form of identity and their feelings of relatedness and solidarity with other blacks tend to remain consistent.
Skin color is only one mechanism used to assign individuals to a racial category, but race is the set of beliefs and assumptions assigned to that category. Racism is the dependence of social status on the social meaning attached to race; colorism is the dependence of social status on skin color alone. The skin color paradox refers to the fact that no matter how differently African Americans are treated based on their skin color, their political and cultural attitudes about blackness as a form of identity and their feelings of relatedness and solidarity with other blacks tend to remain consistent.
However, in order to meet the FMLA s definition of a son or daughter, an adult child (i.e., one who is 18 years of age or older) must have a mental or physical disability and be incapable of self-care because of that disability. 
Skin Color and Self-Esteem The authors’ hypotheses that perceptions of and preferences for darker skin color would be positively related to higher levels of self-esteem, whereas percep-tions of and preferences for lighter skin would be positively related to lower levels of self-esteem were not supported. Lighter skin color was positively related to higher levels of racial identity attitudes (immersion/emersion); the more satisfied darker skinned individu-als were with their skin color, the lower their self-esteem, and gender differences existed in perceptions of others’ preferences for skin color.