Celestrium is comparable to a fine jeweler’s nonprecious material. It polishes to a brilliant silver luster and is known for its strength, resistance to chemical reaction and ease of maintenance. Our Celestrium™ material is over 95% recycled material. Normal wear and tear, diamonds and junior high school spirit rings for example are not covered under the warranty. If your ring can be repaired under warranty guidelines we will be more than happy to repair free of charge.
If your high school ring is lost or stolen, Balfour will replace the ring. This protection is in effect for four years from the date of purchase on all original rings purchased after July 1, 1998, and is limited to a single replacement of your original high school ring during the four-year period. Normal wear and tear, diamonds and junior high school spirit rings for example are not covered under the warranty. If your ring can be repaired under warranty guidelines we will be more than happy to repair free of charge.
The regular celestrium ring looks almost identical to white gold and the goldtone celestrium looks identical to 14 carat yellow gold. The average person can't tell the difference between the two. as tough as In addition to costing less the celestrium ring is actually stronger than gold. Now lets add a cherry on top. Celestrium is the same as Valadium so if you see me interchange the terms don't worry because they both mean the same thing.. There are definite reasons why purchasing celestrium is important to some of our customers. The first of these is the price.
Celestrium is the common term that we use to refer to the jeweller’s alloy which we use to make our Custom Military Rings. Celestrium is the same as Valadium so if you see me interchange the terms don't worry because they both mean the same thing.. There are definite reasons why purchasing celestrium is important to some of our customers. The first of these is the price. Celestrium cost less than all of the other metals that we offer so if you are on a budget this might be the right ring for you
Celestrium is also easy for jewellers to mold and work with. In addition to all of this remember that all of the custom work that we do for you is free. If you need an excellent ring at a dynamite price celestrium is the right ring for you. Celestrium is the same as Valadium so if you see me interchange the terms don't worry because they both mean the same thing.. There are definite reasons why purchasing celestrium is important to some of our customers. The first of these is the price.
Celestrium is a trademark of a type of an austenitic stainless steel used in jewelry. It resembles white gold, but is cheaper and more durable. Celestrium is strong, resistant to chemical reaction, and easy to maintain. The same or similar alloys are marketed as white ultrium, in particular when used for class rings.
Best Answer: I have a celestrium class ring that I have worn continuously for nearly a year and it has not turned green. No-one I know has had this problem. 
Many people wonder about celestrium and its usefulness as a metal choice for the military ring. Celestrium is the toughest metal alloy that I know about that is used to make military rings. This makes it a wonderful choice because it won't get banged up even after years of wear and tear. Even if it does get hurt some way in the future it comes with a lifetime warranty. If you intend to wear your military ring every day celestrium is an excellent choice. I recommend it for many of our younger troops who will wear it at work and play. Celestrium comes in two types. The regular celestrium ring looks exactly like 14kt white gold.
We will need to evaluate your ring to determine if repairs can be made. Please ship your ring to the repair address listed on this website along with instructions, a return shipping address, daytime phone number and return shipping and handle (see website for S&H information). Normal wear and tear, diamonds and junior high school spirit rings for example are not covered under the warranty. If your ring can be repaired under warranty guidelines we will be more than happy to repair free of charge.