New Zealand occurrences-northwest Nelson (Aorere). Quartzite is a metamorphic rock formed when quartz-rich sandstone or chert has been exposed to high temperatures and pressures. Such conditions fuse the quartz grains together forming a dense, hard, equigranular rock. 
Quartzite is a tough stone composed mostly of quartz. It may be derived from sandstone or from chert by regional metamorphism. (more below). Quartzite forms in two different ways. In the first way, under the pressures and temperatures of deep burial, sandstone or chert recrystallizes resulting in a metamorphic rock. A quartzite in which all traces of the original grains and sedimentary structures are erased may also be called metaquartzite.
Quartzite has a grainy, sandpaper-like surface which becomes glassy in appearance. Quartzite (from German: Quarzit) is a hard, non-foliated metamorphic rock which was originally pure quartz sandstone. Pure quartzite is usually white to grey, though quartzites often occur in various shades of pink and red due to varying amounts of iron oxide (Fe 2 O 3). Other colors, such as yellow, green, blue and orange, are due to other mineral impurities.
Quartzite is a nonfoliated metamorphic rock composed almost entirely of quartz. It forms when a quartz-rich sandstone, is altered by the heat, pressure, and chemical activity of metamorphism. These conditions recrystallize the sand grains and the silica cement that binds them together. Quartzite: A specimen of quartzite showing its conchoidal fracture and granular texture. The specimen shown is about two inches (five centimeters) across.
|right1123332577|Quartzite is a hard, metamorphic rock which was originally sandstone. Through heating and pressure usually related to tectonic compression within orogenic belts, the original quartz sand grains and quartz silica cement were fused into one. Pure quartzite is usually white to grey. Quartzite is very resistant to chemical weathering and often forms ridges and resistant hilltops. The nearly pure silica content of the rock provides little to form soil from and therefor the quartzite ridges are often bare or covered only with a very thin soil and little vegetation.
When sandstone is cemented to quartzite, the individual quartz grains recrystallize along with the former cementing material to form an interlocking mosaic of quartz crystals. Most or all of the original texture and sedimentary structures of the sandstone are erased by the metamorphism. Pure quartzite is usually white to grey, though quartzites often occur in various shades of pink and red due to varying amounts of iron oxide (Fe 2 O 3). Other colors, such as yellow, green, blue and orange, are due to other mineral impurities.
Quartz and quartzite are minerals that have many useful purposes. These two minerals are found in abundance in the earth’s crust. However, these two minerals have many differences between them. The main component of quartz is silica or silicon dioxide. 4. Quartz can be classified as a crystalline rock whereas quartzite can be classified as metamorphic. 5. Quartzite is widely used in the construction industry as slabs, roofing and flooring tiles and as crushed stones.
Understanding Quartz and Quartzite. Quartzite is a naturally occurring metamorphic rock. It is created when sandstone is subjected to extreme heat and pressure caused by tectonic plate compression in the crust of the earth. The stone is mined and sawn into slabs which are later precisely cut to become countertops. Quartz vs. Quartzite Countertops. Here is a comparison of quartz and quartzite that will help you decide which material is right for your bathroom or kitchen countertops project. Appearance: It’s impossible to say that one material is more attractive than the other, since beauty is subjective for each of us.