Human geography is one of the two major sub-fields of the discipline of geography. Human geography is a branch of the social sciences that studies the world, its people, communities and cultures with an emphasis on relations of and across space and place. Human geography differs from physical geography mainly in that it has a greater focus on studying human activities and is more receptive to qualitative research methodologies. As a discipline, human geography is particularly diverse with respect to its methods and theoretical approaches to study.
'Physical Geography' is the natural features of our environment, e.g mountains, rainforests, lakes, seas and oceans. 'Human Geography' is features, buildings or structures made by humans. 'Physical Geography' is the natural features of our environment, e.g mountains, rainforests, lakes, seas and oceans. 'Human Geography' is features, buildings or structures mad … e by humans. Examples include houses, towns, cities, SOME forests, roads, footpaths and shops.
PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY describes and explains the distribution of the  natural features of the earth that are continually affected by  forces and processes in nature while HUMAN … GEOGRAPHY deals with the  distribution of people their cultural attributes and their  activities,.,. 9 people found this useful. 'Physical Geography' is the natural features of our environment, e.g mountains, rainforests, lakes, seas and oceans. 'Human Geography' is features, buildings or structures mad … e by humans. Examples include houses, towns, cities, SOME forests, roads, footpaths and shops.
Today, geography is commonly divided into two major branches-cultural geography (also called human geography) and physical geography. Cultural geography is the branch of geography dealing with human culture and its impact on the Earth. Of course, geography today means much more than writing about the Earth but it's a difficult discipline to define. Many geographers have done their best to define geography but a typical dictionary definition today reads, The science of the Earth's physical features, resources, climate, population, etc..
Physical geography is the study of the physical features of Earth's surface. For example, we can study how volcanoes, V-shaped valleys or waterfalls are formed. Geography is the study of the Earth, its landforms and features,  and the distribution of life including human life. It also includes  how locations and climate influence hu … man populations and  activities.
Physical geography (also known as geosystems or physiography) is one of the two major sub-fields of geography. 1 Coastal geography is the study of the dynamic interface between the ocean and the land, incorporating both the physical geography (i.e. coastal geomorphology, geology and oceanography) and the human geography of the coast.
Within the body of physical geography, the Earth is often split into several spheres or environments, the main spheres being the atmosphere, biosphere, cryosphere, geosphere, hydrosphere, lithosphere and pedosphere. 1 Coastal geography is the study of the dynamic interface between the ocean and the land, incorporating both the physical geography (i.e. coastal geomorphology, geology and oceanography) and the human geography of the coast.
Physical geography covers the topics relating to the surface of the earth-the landforms, glaciers, rivers, climate, oceans, earth-sun interaction, hazards, and more. Physical Geography-The study of the earth's surface. Example: glaciers, mountains, oceans, etc. Geography is the study of the Earth, its landforms and features,  and the distribution of life including human life. It also includes  how locations and climate influence hu … man populations and  activities.
Within the body of physical geography, the Earth is often split either into several spheres or environments, the main spheres being the atmosphere, biosphere, cryosphere, geosphere, hydrosphere, lithosphere and pedosphere. Research in physical geography is often interdisciplinary and uses the systems approach. 
Physical geography is that branch of natural science which deals with the study of processes and patterns in the natural environment like the atmosphere, hydrosphere, biosphere, and geosphere, as opposed to the cultural or built environment, the domain of human geography. 1 Coastal geography is the study of the dynamic interface between the ocean and the land, incorporating both the physical geography (i.e. coastal geomorphology, geology and oceanography) and the human geography of the coast.