Vowels. The Czech Republic (also known as Czechoslovakia or Former Czechoslovak Republic of Czech or less commonly Pepičky (as in neighbour Poland or Hungary)) is a country in Central Europe. 
Czech Genealogy. If your ancestors came from what is now the Czech Republic, Czechoslovakia, or if you go back far enough, Bohemia, you will find that your ancestors are Bohemian, not to be confused with bohemian (with a small 'b'). Primary Bohemian/Czech settlement areas in the United States were New York City, New York, Texas, Cleveland, Ohio, St. Louis, Missouri, Northeast Iowa, and the upper Midwest States of Minnesota, Wisconsin, and the Dakotas.
How did the small Czech province of Bohemia come to be associated with smelly artistic types and do the people there resent the implication? 
Czechs or Czech people (Czech: Češi, [ˈtʃɛʃɪ]) are a nation and ethnic group native to the Czech Republic in Central Europe. There are also ancient folk stories about the Czech people, such as the Forefather Čech, who according to legend brought the tribe of Czechs into its land, or Přemysl, the Ploughman, who started the dynasty that ruled for 400 years until 1306.
They share a common culture, history and speak the Czech language. Ethnic Czechs were called Bohemians in English until the early 20th century, referring to the late Iron Age tribe of Celtic Boii and their land Bohemia. There are also ancient folk stories about the Czech people, such as the Forefather Čech, who according to legend brought the tribe of Czechs into its land, or Přemysl, the Ploughman, who started the dynasty that ruled for 400 years until 1306.
Culture Name. Czech. The term Czech refers to the cultural characteristics of the Czech-speaking inhabitants of the Czech Republic (Česká česká), republika which Includes (Čechy), čechy the larger western, part And (Moravia), morava the eastern. part After World War II, the ethnic makeup of Czechoslovakia changed profoundly. Most Jews did not survive the war, and after the war, settlers of Czech origin arrived from Romania, Yugoslavia, and Volhynia in the Soviet Union. By 1950, about 95 percent of all Czechoslovak citizens of German nationality had left.
Czechs come from a variety of countries: Slovakia, Austria, the United States, the United Kingdom, Chile, Argentina, Canada, Germany, and Russia. 
Czech people and their descendants live in United States, Canada, Italy, the United Kingdom, Germany, Slovakia, Australia, Argentina, Austria and Switzerland among others. There are also ancient folk stories about the Czech people, such as the Forefather Čech, who according to legend brought the tribe of Czechs into its land, or Přemysl, the Ploughman, who started the dynasty that ruled for 400 years until 1306.
Why Our Czech Ancestors Came To America. D uring the 19th century our ancestors in Bohemia and Moravia were citizens of the Austrian Empire, ruled by the Habsburg dynasty. Bohemia was bounded by Austria on the south, Bavaria on the west, Saxony on the north, and Moravia on the east. (Most of the present Czech Republic was formed from the region of Bohemia.). L iving as peasants, the common people of central Europe were kept in virtual slavery, with no political or religious freedom.