Reviewed By: Larry Addleson, DDS, FAACD. Scaling and root planing is a thorough dental cleaning of tooth root surfaces to remove plaque and tartar (calculus) from around teeth and periodontal pockets in the gums, and to smooth the teeth roots to remove bacterial toxins.
Deep cleaning is actually called scaling and root planing and is done to treat the early stages of gum disease, which are infections in the gums and the bones that hold your teeth in place. If you do not have insurance or if your insurance does not cover this procedure, you will have to pay the fee out of pocket.
Cost of dental scaling and root planing. The average fee that dentists charge for deep scaling and root planing is about $225 for each quadrant. However the cost may vary depending on how many dental appointments are needed for the completion of treatment.
In my experience in the USA root canals go for anywhere from $800 - $1500. You also need to add the cost of a crown in most cases which is an additional $800 -$1200. Typical cost without insurance is $2,000 per tooth for both.
The average costs of deep cleaning is between $100-to-$400 per quadrant. This means that if you are getting all four areas scaled and planed, it can cost you as little as $400 or as much as $1,600.
Your root planing will cost $X. (The dentist fills in the amount). As far as insurance coverage, your plan may pay a portion of the fee, but there is typically an amount remaining for the patient to pay. Most plans pay a minimum amount, regardless of what you might need as an individual.
Deep cleaning is actually called scaling and root planing and is done to treat the early stages of gum disease, which are infections in the gums and the bones that hold your teeth in place. If you do not have insurance or if your insurance does not cover this procedure, you will have to pay the fee out of pocket.
You will need non-surgical periodontal therapy (Scaling and Root Planing) which is a lot more time consuming and therefore, a lot more expensive. The fee ranges from $100 to $300 per quadrant depending on the severity of disease and city/state. In our office we charge $160 - $260 per quadrant depending on severity.
Scaling and Root Planing Costs. A regular dental prophylaxis (professional teeth cleaning) averages between $30 and $75, (check all fees  in general these may be low) while the cost of periodontal scaling and root planing averages between $140 and $210.