Results-Attachment Styles. Ainsworth (1970) identified three main attachment styles, secure (type B), insecure avoidant (type A) and insecure ambivalent/resistant (type C). She concluded that these attachment styles were the result of early interactions with the mother. However, research has shown that there are individual differences in attachment quality. Indeed, one of the primary paradigms in attachment theory is that of the security of an individual’s attachment (Ainsworth & Bell, 1970).
Attachment theory research and many other studies in the developmental psychology of children have shown that our very first close relationship with-or attachment to-our primary caregiver (typically our mother) the first two years of our lives shapes how we: • View ourselves: our self esteem and self image ... Insecure and secure attachment refer to specific attachment behavior patterns that the infant shows, typically when being under some form of stress. These patterns have been largely shaped by the mother’s sensitive responsiveness (secure attachment) – or lack or inconsistency of responsiveness (insecure attachment).
Attachment is a word used by psychologists to describe the relationship between children and their caretakers. When we watch the behavioral patterns that characterize this relationship, four types of attachment are seen: secure, avoidant, ambivalent, and disorganized. Trackbacks/Pingbacks. 1  States of Mind - [...] week I wrote about the forms of attachment. 2  Attachment is not the Elimination of Difficult Emotions - [...] That is about three mis-attunements every minute, and this is in the most secure of the four attachment types.
The first type of insecure attachment is called ambivalent attachment. This occurs when caregivers are inconsistent – sometimes answering infants’ needs quickly and responsively, and sometimes letting the infant ‘cry it out’. This type of attachment is called disorganized, and is often characterized by a disassociative response, wherein infants have NO response, and in fact, are emotionally absent. Whether infants have secure attachment or one of the types of insecure attachment, is pivotal to their growth and functioning in the world.
Insecure Attachment. Attachment theory research tells us that infants will likely experience one of three types of insecure attachment if they do not get responsive, nurturing, consistent care in the early weeks and months of their lives. This type of attachment is called disorganized, and is often characterized by a disassociative response, wherein infants have NO response, and in fact, are emotionally absent. Whether infants have secure attachment or one of the types of insecure attachment, is pivotal to their growth and functioning in the world.
With insecure ambivalent attachment characterized by ‘only sometimes’ type of caregiving, babies learn that the world and their ability to have an impact on it is basically inconsistent – sometimes things happen, sometimes they don’t – sometimes all their needs are met, and sometimes only some of them are. This type of attachment is called disorganized, and is often characterized by a disassociative response, wherein infants have NO response, and in fact, are emotionally absent. Whether infants have secure attachment or one of the types of insecure attachment, is pivotal to their growth and functioning in the world.
First, these categories are a description of the relationship between a particular caregiver and the infant. It is not simply a classification of the infant. Later research showed that infants can have an entirely different attachment relationship with the father (or other primary caregiver). Trackbacks/Pingbacks. 1  States of Mind - [...] week I wrote about the forms of attachment. 2  Attachment is not the Elimination of Difficult Emotions - [...] That is about three mis-attunements every minute, and this is in the most secure of the four attachment types.
Attachment theory is a psychological model that attempts to describe the dynamics of long-term interpersonal relationships between humans. However, attachment theory is not formulated as a general theory of relationships. It addresses only a specific facet (Waters et al. A child with the anxious-avoidant insecure attachment style will avoid or ignore the caregiver — showing little emotion when the caregiver departs or returns. The child will not explore very much regardless of who is there. Infants classified as anxious-avoidant (A) represented a puzzle in the early 1970s.
Secure and insecure attachments (30 minutes) (a) Outline two differences between secure and insecure attachment. (3 marks + 3 marks) Ainsworth's ‘strange situation’ has been used to investigate patterns of attachment. Secure attachment: The child demonstrates mild distress when separated from the caregiver. 