This medication may also be used to treat various conditions such as blood disorders, severe allergic reactions, certain cancers, eye conditions, skin /intestinal/ kidney / lung diseases, and immune system disorders. Do not stop using this medication without consulting your doctor. Some conditions may worsen or you may experience withdrawal symptoms (such as weakness, weight loss, nausea, muscle pain, headache, tiredness, dizziness) when this drug is suddenly stopped.
How to use Depo-Medrol injection. Shake this medication well before using. This medication is usually injected into a joint as directed by your doctor. Methylprednisolone may also be injected into a muscle or into abnormal skin tissue. Follow your doctor's directions carefully. The dosage is based on your medical condition and response to treatment. Do not stop using this medication without consulting your doctor. Some conditions may worsen or you may experience withdrawal symptoms (such as weakness, weight loss, nausea, muscle pain, headache, tiredness, dizziness) when this drug is suddenly stopped.
Methylprednisolone is used to treat many different inflammatory conditions such as arthritis, lupus, psoriasis, ulcerative colitis, allergic disorders, gland (endocrine) disorders, and conditions that affect the skin, eyes, lungs, stomach, nervous system, or blood cells. Depo-Medrol Side Effects. Get emergency medical help if you have any of these signs of an allergic reaction: hives; difficulty breathing; swelling of your face, lips, tongue, or throat. Call your doctor at once if you have: 1  blurred vision, tunnel vision, eye pain, or seeing halos around lights;
Depo-Medrol is available in generic form. Common side effects of Depo-Medrol include nausea, vomiting, heartburn, headache, dizziness, trouble sleeping, appetite changes, increased sweating, acne, or pain/redness/swelling at the injection site. Depo-Medrol may also cause a rise in blood sugar, and it may lower your ability to fight infections.
To make sure methylprednisolone is safe for you, tell your doctor if you have: 1  heart disease, high blood pressure; 2  kidney disease; 3  cirrhosis or other liver disease; 4  past or present tuberculosis; 5  glaucoma or cataracts; 6  herpes infection of the eyes; 7  seizures, epilepsy or recent head injury; 8  stomach ulcers, ulcerative colitis, diverticulitis, or 9  ... a Depo-Medrol Side Effects. Get emergency medical help if you have any of these signs of an allergic reaction: hives; difficulty breathing; swelling of your face, lips, tongue, or throat. Call your doctor at once if you have: 1  blurred vision, tunnel vision, eye pain, or seeing halos around lights;
DEPO-MEDROL is used to treat disorders of many organ systems such as skin, lung, eye, gastrointestinal tract, nervous system, joints and blood. DEPO-MEDROL works by reducing inflammation and changing the body's natural ability to respond when the immune response is not working properly. It is also used in certain conditions where the adrenal gland doesn't function correctly. Your doctor may have prescribed DEPO-MEDROL for another reason. Ask your doctor if you have any questions about why DEPO-MEDROL has been prescribed for you. This medicine is available only with a doctor's prescription. Some people may get other side effects while being treated with DEPO-MEDROL. It is very important to tell your doctor if you notice any
A Stacy Wiegman, PharmD, Pharmacy, answered. Depo-Medrol is a brand name version of the generic drug methylprednisolone acetate. It comes in an injectable solution that is generally administered by your doctor. Vials of Depo-Medrol come in strengths of 40 mg./ml or 80 mg./ml. Depo-Medrol is an anti-inflammatory glucocorticoid with a wide range of uses.
Here is a collection of user reviews for the medication Depo Medrol sorted by most helpful. See User Reviews. Report Problems to the Food and Drug Administration. You are encouraged to report negative side effects of prescription drugs to the FDA. Visit the FDA MedWatch website or call 1-800-FDA-1088. DRUG DESCRIPTION. DEPO-MEDROL is an anti-inflammatory glucocorticoid for intramuscular, intra-articular, soft tissue or intralesional injection. It is available in three strengths: 20 mg/mL; 40 mg/mL; 80 mg/mL.
Depo-Medrol. METHYLPREDNISOLONE is a corticosteroid. It is commonly used to treat inflammation of the skin, joints, lungs, and other organs. Common conditions treated include asthma, allergies, and arthritis. It is also used for other conditions, such as blood disorders and diseases of the adrenal glands. Methylprednisolone is a corticosteroid (cortisone-like medicine or steroid). It works on the immune system to help relieve swelling, redness, itching, and allergic reactions. This medicine is available only with your doctor's prescription.
Depo Medrol is an anti-inflammatory corticosteroid (or glucocorticoid) administered by intramuscular, intrasynovial, soft tissue, or intralesional injection. This corticosteroid medicine is used when the body’s adrenal glands no longer naturally produce enough of its own cortisone like hormones to maintain good health. Depo Medrol injection is used to provide relief for inflamed areas of the body that may result from allergic states or from endocrine, haematologic or rheumatic disorders.