1 For every one pound of pasta, bring 5 quarts of water to a rolling boil. 2  Once water is boiling, then add about 2 tbsp. of coarse salt, or 1/4 cup table salt. 3  Stir to keep the pasta from sticking. 4  Stir within the first 2 minutes of cooking pasta. EIGHT STEPS TO PERFECT PASTA. 1  For every one pound of pasta, bring 5 quarts of water to a rolling boil. 2  Once water is boiling, then add about 2 tbsp. of coarse salt, or 1/4 cup table salt. 3  Stir to keep the pasta from sticking.
Report Abuse. Here's How: 1. Fill a pot with one quart (1 liter) of water per serving of pasta (1/4 pound, 100 g) you plan to make, and set it to boil. When the water comes to a boil, add 1 tablespoon of coarse salt (a little less if it's fine) per quart of water. Check the pasta package for pasta cooking time. 
10. Cooking, Drying, or Freezing the Pasta: To cook the pasta immediately, bring a large pot of water to a boil, salt the water, and cook the pasta until al dente, 4-5 minutes. To dry, lay the pasta over a clothes drying rack, coat hangers, or the back of a chair, and let air dry until completely brittle. Mixing and kneading the dough takes about 10 minutes, then you let it rest for 30 minutes. You can use this resting time to pull together the ingredients for the pasta sauce. After resting, rolling out and cutting the dough takes maybe another 10 to 20 minutes, depending on how fast you go and how many helpers you have.
For pasta destined for a picnic salad, we like to do two things: 1. Cook it in even more heavily salted water.2. Cook it just a little beyond al dente. When cooking pasta for salad, we usually double the amount of salt we normally put in the pasta water, adding roughly 4 tablespoons of salt for 4 quarts of water. 
Don't rely on the package to give you the correct cooking time (this is only a guideline). Start timing when the water returns to a boil. Most pastas cook in 8 to 12 minutes. Test dry pasta for doneness after about 4 minutes of cooking by tasting it. It is difficult to give exact cooking times since different shapes and thickness of pasta will take less or more time to cook. To cook pasta properly, pasta needs a lot of water. A too-small pot and too little water encourages the pasta to clump and stick together, thus cooking unevenly. For a pound (16 ounces) of pasta, you will want a pot that holds at least 5 or 6 quarts of water.
It raises the boiling temperature of the water, and also infuses taste into the pasta itself. So for a dinner for two, you'd want a 1/2 pound of dry pasta, 2 quarts of water with 2 tablespoons of salt. Boil on high. If you don't have any measuring utensils, Chef Klechevsky's tip is that you always have enough water to cover however much pasta you're making by about 1.5 inches.
Most pasta should be boiled for approximately 10 minutes but sometimes it is different for the type of pasta you have. I recommend you check the label of the packaging to be … sure of how long you should cook the pasta for. + 15 others found this useful. Bj Brown. 
To cook pasta and prevent it from sticking, pasta needs Large pot. Use at least 1 Liters of water per 100g. of pasta. Salt is added to the boiling water, not to lower the boiling point. If you dont season the cooking water, the pasta may taste flat, no matter how salty the sauce you dress it in. 1  Bring the water to a full, rolling boil. 1 Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil. 2  Add pasta and cook for 8 to 10 minutes or until al dente; drain. 3  Place macaroni in a 2 liters casserole dish. 4  Stir in ccream and milk until well combined. 5  Sprinkle with shredded Chedaar cheese. 6  Bake 25 to 30 minutes in oven, or until cheese is brown and bubbly