Noun. 1. counterbore-a bit for enlarging the upper part of a hole. countersink bit, countersink. bit-the cutting part of a drill; usually pointed and threaded and is replaceable in a brace or bitstock or drill press; he looked around for the right size bit. 
Definition of COUNTERBORE. : to form a counterbore in: enlarge (part of a hole) by means of a counterbore. ADVERTISEMENT. Definition of COUNTERBORE. 1. : a flat-bottomed enlargement of the mouth of a cylindrical bore. 2. : a drill for making a counterbore — compare countersink.
A counterbore is when the rifling and part of the inner diameter of the bore is drilled out from the muzzle back far enough to get rid of boogered up rifling. The need for counterboring is caused by poor cleaning methods, ie: not using a rod guide. 
Counterbore. A counterbored hole is typically used when a fastener such as a bolt or cap head screw is required to sit flush with or below the level of a surface. To fabricate your counterbored holes, we would need to know the following information. 1  Major Diameter (finished diameter of the hole at the surface). Countersink. A countersink is a cone shaped hole cut into the laminate. It is typically used to allow the tapered head of a screw to sit flush with the top of the laminate. By comparison, a counterbore makes a flat-bottomed hole and its sides are drilled straight down.
Noun. 1. counterbore-a bit for enlarging the upper part of a hole. countersink bit, countersink. bit-the cutting part of a drill; usually pointed and threaded and is replaceable in a brace or bitstock or drill press; he looked around for the right size bit.
The counterbore tool is typically a specialized drill bit that creates the hole for the body of the fastener and the larger sized cavity for its head, both at the same time. Usually, the fastener chosen is a flat-bottomed screw such as a round head or a pan head screw. Usually, a socket wrench is used for the purpose, which means enough space must be available around the screw head to insert the socket wrench and allow it to grip the head of the fastener. For this, the counterbore cavity is drilled to a diameter larger than that necessary to accommodate the socket wrench.
Counterbore. A counterbore is a cylindrical flat-bottomed hole that enlarges another coaxial hole, or the tool used to create that feature. A counterbore hole is typically used when a fastener, such as a socket head cap screw, is required to sit flush with or below the level of a workpiece's surface. Whereas a counterbore is a flat-bottomed enlargement of a smaller coaxial hole, a countersink is a conical enlargement of such. Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: counterbore (Noun). A cylindrical recess, typically machined around a hole to admit a screw so that it sits flush with a surface. counterbore (Noun). The tool with which a counterbore is machined. counterbore (Verb). To create such a cylindrical recess.
A counterbore (symbol: ⌴) is a cylindrical flat-bottomed hole that enlarges another coaxial hole, or the tool used to create that feature. A counterbore hole is typically used when a fastener, such as a socket head cap screw, is required to sit flush with or below the level of a workpiece's surface. Whereas a counterbore is a flat-bottomed enlargement of a smaller coaxial hole, a countersink is a conical enlargement of such. A counterbore hole is usually used when the head of a fastener, such as a hex head or socket head capscrew, is required to be flush with or below the level of a workpiece's surface. For a spot face, material is removed from a surface to make it flat and smooth, usually for a fastener or a bearing
Contrary to what some have suggested, a counterbore is not how the bartender referred to me at that Christmas party I went to a few months ago. Counterboring is a means of setting a fastener below the surface of the workpiece, just like countersinking. 