In the 1700s a man named Carolus Linnaeus came up with a system of classifying living things into specific kingdoms. He looked at ways organisms are alike and different. Then he sorted them into categories that showed their relationships to each other. Mr. Linnaeus used Latin names for these categories. 1 Make a display of how this classification system works. 2  You may want to get many boxes. 3  The biggest box can be labeled Kingdom.. 4  Label the smaller boxes and put them inside of each other. 5  You may want to use representations of living things inside your boxes.
Today, we only use this system to classify living things. (Linnaeus included nonliving things in his mineral kingdom.) Also, we have added a few additional levels in the hierarchy. The broadest level of life is now a domain. All living things fit into only three domains: Archaea, Bacteria, and Eukarya. A Swedish naturalist named Carolus Linnaeus is considered the 'Father of Taxonomy' because, in the 1700s, he developed a way to name and organize species that we still use today. His two most important contributions to taxonomy were: 1  A hierarchical classification system.
Image: Linnean classification system. In the 18th century, Carl Linnaeus published a system for classifying living things, which has been developed into the modern classification system. 
Carl von Linnaeus, the Swedish botanist who developed the system still in use for classifying living things. For thousands of years people have known how living things differ from lifeless things. For one thing, all the edible stuff is from Life. Of course, people had names for the different organisms, whether edible, inedible, poisonous, or otherwise dangerous.
Historical records show that informally classifying organisms took place at least back to the days of Aristotle (Greece, 384–322 BC), who was the first to begin to classify all living things. Aristotle used a very simple system of classification. He divided all living thing into two groups: plant and animals. Some of the terms he gave to animals, such as  invertebrates  and  vertebrates  are still commonly used today. The exact definition of taxonomy varies from source to source, but the core of the discipline remains: the conception, naming, and classification of groups of organisms.
Invariably, they are part of a living support system, and they resemble (but are not identical to) other forms within that system. One of the 10 surviving microscopes made by van Leeuwenhoek. (Courtesy: UC Berkeley) For thousands of years people have known how living things differ from lifeless things. For one thing, all the edible stuff is from Life. Of course, people had names for the different organisms, whether edible, inedible, poisonous, or otherwise dangerous.
In this tutorial you will be learning about the Linnaean system of classification used in the biological sciences to describe and categorize all living things. The focus is on finding out how humans fit within this system. This Linnaean system of classification was widely accepted by the early 19th century and is still the basic framework for all taxonomy in the biological sciences today. The Linnaean system uses two Latin name categories, genus and species, to designate each type of organism.
The most specific level of the classification system is the species. Linnaeus devised a naming system for species that is still in use today. The genus is named first and is capitalized followed by the species which is not. Both the genus and species are often italicized. When organisms are referred to in Micscape articles, it is often by their genus. The current system owes it genesis to the father of modern classification or taxonomy, a Swede named Carl von Linn (1707-1778). He is better known by the Latinized name he adopted, Carolus Linnaeus.
Scientists have developed and changed Mr. Linnaeus classification system as they learn more about living things. For a long time, all life on Earth was divided into five kingdoms. Now many scientists say there are six kingdoms. They have divided the first kingdom into two kingdoms. 1 Make a display of how this classification system works. 2  You may want to get many boxes. 3  The biggest box can be labeled Kingdom.. 4  Label the smaller boxes and put them inside of each other. 5  You may want to use representations of living things inside your boxes.