Placement of instruments directly on the floor of the unit will result in poor cleaning, and excessive bouncing could damage the unit and the instruments. The use of a suspending basket or rack will position the instruments or cassettes for optimal cleaning. For example, office staff can properly clean more instruments within a given period of time. Almost all instruments can be ultrasonically cleaned. One major exception is the majority of dental handpieces, which usually must be hand-cleaned.
1 Turn on the ultrasonic cleaner and set the timer for 10 to 15 minutes. 2  Blood and tissue should be removed from instruments at a temperature below 40⁰C. 3  Elevating the temperature can cause protein in blood to harden and become more difficult to clean. 1 Higher temperatures i.e. 60⁰C (140⁰F) are required to remove dried blood (which is why instruments should be kept wet before cleaning). 2  Cleaning time depends on the load and extent of the contamination. 3  Let experience be your guide. 4  Cavitation ceases at the end of the set time period.
Washer disinfectors are the best method for cleaning and disinfection of dental instruments. They have a double function, first a thorough cleaning process followed by heat disinfection where the water temperature is elevated almost to boiling point (93% C). 
Until instruments are ready to be cleaned keep them immersed in either a germicidal or enzymatic presoak such as PreZyme. Do not let instruments dry out before cleaning. Use an ultrasonic cleaning solution formulated for cleaning medical and dental instruments. Otherwise particles could “bake” on the instruments and cannot be removed by sterilization. When the ultrasonic cleaning cycle is completed, rinse the instruments in water to remove solution residue and then move to the disinfecting and sterilizing steps to complete the process.
IAHCSMM recommends a range of 34% to 70%. 9 (5) Due to the use of chemicals in the cleaning of instruments and devices, an emergency eyewash station is required by OSHA. 26 The station should be positioned, so it is accessible within 10 seconds or 30 meters of potential chemical exposure.
If manual cleaning is not performed immediately, instruments should be placed into a container and soaked with a detergent, a disinfectant/detergent, or an enzymatic cleaner to prevent drying of patient material and make manual cleaning easier and less time consuming. Because instruments cleaned with automated cleaning equipment do not need to be presoaked or scrubbed, the use of automated equipment can increase productivity, improve cleaning effectiveness, and decrease worker exposure to blood and body fluids.
Carbon steel is common in dental burs, on the cutting/scraping edges of some instruments (eg, orthodontic pliers, scalers, and hatchets), and the grasping surfaces of forceps. Rust-inhibiting solutions (eg, those containing sodium nitrite) can be sprayed on instruments prior to processing in a steam autoclave. For example, office staff can properly clean more instruments within a given period of time. Almost all instruments can be ultrasonically cleaned. One major exception is the majority of dental handpieces, which usually must be hand-cleaned.
Cleaning time (typically 7 to 10 minutes depending on the size of the load) and the temperature are set using the intuitive control panel and the unit turned on. Note that solution temperatures should be kept below 42°C (107⁰F). Otherwise particles could “bake” on the instruments and cannot be removed by sterilization. When the ultrasonic cleaning cycle is completed, rinse the instruments in water to remove solution residue and then move to the disinfecting and sterilizing steps to complete the process.
How to Clean Surgical Instruments. The Elmasonic S 70 H Ultrasonic Cleaner. Proper surgical instrument cleaning is an exacting process that should be spelled out in standard operating procedures at hospital and healthcare facilities including dental clinics where instruments are reused. 1 Higher temperatures i.e. 60⁰C (140⁰F) are required to remove dried blood (which is why instruments should be kept wet before cleaning). 2  Cleaning time depends on the load and extent of the contamination. 3  Let experience be your guide. 4  Cavitation ceases at the end of the set time period.
•Do not use the unit’s heating element, if present. •Process loose instruments for 5 to 15 minutes (adjust time if needed). •Process instrument cassettes for 10 to 20 minutes (consult manufacturer’s recommendations and the actual performance of the unit). •Rinse cleaned instruments well after processing. For example, office staff can properly clean more instruments within a given period of time. Almost all instruments can be ultrasonically cleaned. One major exception is the majority of dental handpieces, which usually must be hand-cleaned.