Similarly, you can have very specific pain at the second toe joint. If you have a sharp pain on the bottom of the second toe joint, you may be suffering from a common condition called “predislocation syndrome.” As the name suggests, the condition is a syndrome that occurs before the toe joint begins to dislocate. The treatments for predislocation syndrome typically target the inflammation and reduce the stress on the plantar plate. Taping and splinting the toe to reduce the stress on the joint is critical. Your foot doctor will do this for you
Treatment of Predislocation Syndrome. The good news about predislocation syndrome is that it can often be treated quickly and without surgery. Although crutches, fracture walking boot s and below-the-knee casts can help speed healing, these are not always needed. The treatments for predislocation syndrome typically target the inflammation and reduce the stress on the plantar plate. Taping and splinting the toe to reduce the stress on the joint is critical. Your foot doctor will do this for you
Predislocation Syndrome. Predislocation syndrome is a slowly progressing condition where the structures that hold the joint of your second toe stable begin to degenerate. As a result, you will experience frequent pain, burning in nature, in the ball of your foot that results from inflammation of the joint structures. Predislocation syndrome occurs prior to the toe joint actually dislocating. Walking barefoot typically becomes uncomfortable, particularly on hard surfaces, like wood or tile floors. Sometimes you will notice your second toe has “migrated,” or moved a bit to the left or right.
You may have Predislocation Syndrome if: 1  Your foot pain is in the ball of the foot. 2  Pain is worse when you stand on your toes. 3  Pain is worse barefoot, and walking on hard surfaces. 4  No history of trauma or injury. The treatments for predislocation syndrome typically target the inflammation and reduce the stress on the plantar plate. Taping and splinting the toe to reduce the stress on the joint is critical. Your foot doctor will do this for you
This inflammation causes considerable discomfort and, if left untreated, can eventually lead to a weakening of surrounding ligaments that can cause dislocation of the toe. Capsulitis—also referred to as predislocation syndrome—is a common condition that can occur at any age. Causes It is generally believed that capsulitis of the second toe is a result of abnormal foot mechanics, where the ball of the foot beneath the toe joint takes an excessive amount of weight-bearing pressure. 
Predislocation syndrome in the foot describes a painful condition involving the 2nd metatarsal phalangeal joint. This joint, found at the base of the 2nd toe, can develop a painful inflammatory condition that leads to joint dislocation and damage. The symptoms of predislocation syndrome often include swelling and warmth under the base of the 2nd toe, with pain to pressure under the ball of the foot at this site. A hammertoe deformity of the 2nd toe is usually present with this condition, and it actually worsens as the condition progresses
Generally speaking, predislocation syndrome causes ongoing pain and discomfort in the ball of the foot that is severe enough to disrupt your everyday life. Exercising becomes more difficult and painful; sometimes just walking across the floor can become a real challenge. Predislocation syndrome occurs prior to the toe joint actually dislocating. Walking barefoot typically becomes uncomfortable, particularly on hard surfaces, like wood or tile floors. Sometimes you will notice your second toe has “migrated,” or moved a bit to the left or right.
Predislocation syndrome is a common foot ailment and although just about anyone can develop the condition, it is more common in people with a shortened first toe (big toe), and an elongated second toe that extends beyond the big toe. Predislocation syndrome occurs prior to the toe joint actually dislocating. Walking barefoot typically becomes uncomfortable, particularly on hard surfaces, like wood or tile floors. Sometimes you will notice your second toe has “migrated,” or moved a bit to the left or right.