paramecium. paramecium (parəmēˈsĭəm) [ key ], unicellular organism of the genus Paramecium, of the ciliate phylum Ciliophora found in freshwater throughout the world. Like other protozoans, paramecia, previously considered one-celled animals, are now customarily placed in kingdom Protista. Paramecia and other ciliates are the most complex of all single-celled organisms. The paramecium has an external oral groove lined with cilia and leading to a mouth pore and gullet; food (typically smaller organisms, such as bacteria) is digested in food vacuoles.
Medical Definition of PARAMECIUM. 1. capitalized: a genus of ciliate protozoans that have an elongate body rounded at the anterior end and an oblique funnel-shaped buccal groove bearing the mouth at the extremity. 2. plural par·a·me·cia \-sh(ē-)ə, -sē-ə\ also par·a·me·ciums: any ciliate protozoan of the genus Paramecium.
Image courtesy: BioMEDIA ASSOCIATES The paramecium, genus of protozoa of the phylum Ciliophora, is often called slipper animalcules because of their slipper-like shape. Paramecia are unicellular organisms usually less than 0.25 mm (0.01 in) in length and covered with minute hair-like projections called cilia. A paramecium is a small one celled (unicellular) living organism that can move, digest food, and reproduce. They belong to the kingdom of Protista, which is a group (family) of similar living micro-organisms. Micro-organism means they are a very small living cell
Paramecium caudatum is a species of unicellular organisms belonging to the genus Paramecium of the phylum Ciliophora. They can reach 0.25mm in length and are covered with minute hair-like organelles called cilia. The cilia are used in locomotion and feeding. 
Definition of PARAMECIUM. : any of a genus (Paramecium) of ciliate chiefly freshwater protozoans that have an elongate body rounded at the anterior end and an oblique funnel-shaped buccal groove bearing the mouth at the extremity. See paramecium defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 1. capitalized: a genus of ciliate protozoans that have an elongate body rounded at the anterior end and an oblique funnel-shaped buccal groove bearing the mouth at the extremity. 2. plural par·a·me·cia \-sh(ē-)ə, -sē-ə\ also par·a·me·ciums: any ciliate protozoan of the genus Paramecium.
They are a genus of protozoa of the phylum Ciliophora. They feed mostly on bacteria. Paramecium is a member of a group of unicellular slipper shaped ciliate protozoa called Paramecia. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Paramecium (parr-ə-MEE-sh(ee-)əm, /ˌpaerəˈmiːʃⁱəm/ ˌpærəˈmiːʃⁱəm or-parr-ə-mee-see, /əm/) ˌpaerəˈmiːsiəm ˌpærəˈmiːsiəm is a genus of unicellular, ciliated protozoan commonly studied as a representative of the. ciliate group Paramecia feed on microorganisms like bacteria, algae, and yeasts. To gather food, the Paramecium uses its cilia to sweep prey organisms, along with some water, through the oral groove, and into the mouth opening.