I tried to hide my surprise. For months I'd been on the trail of the greatest natural disaster in Earth's history. About 250 million years ago, at the end of the Permian period, something killed some 90 percent of the planet's species. Less than 5 percent of the animal species in the seas survived. On land less than a third of the large animal species made it. Nearly all the trees died. 
2,533 pages on this wiki. The Triassic (Alberti, 1834) is a geologic period that extends from about 253 to 195 million years ago (MYA). As the first period of the Mesozoic Era, the Triassic follows the Permian and is followed by the Jurassic. Both the start and end of the Triassic are marked by major extinction events.
What the Earth was like. Reconstruction of the Earth in the Triassic period, 248 million - 205 million years ago. Credit: Dr Ron Blakey, NAU Geology. Desert Earth A vast desert formed in Earth's prehistoric past when the supercontinent of Pangaea straddled the equator and stretched to the poles. Towards the end of the Triassic, 220 million years ago, there was another extinction, which wiped out many of the non-dinosaurs including the dicynodonts such as Placerias and primitive archosaurs such as Postosuchus. It was after this that dinosaurs really started to radiate and diversify.
The Triassic /traɪˈaesɪk/ traɪˈæsɪk is a geologic period and system that extends from roughly 250 to 200 (mya.252 ± 17.0 06 to.201 ± 3.0 2 million years), ago an interval of.51 04 million. years The Triassic period ended with a mass extinction, which was particularly severe in the oceans; the conodonts disappeared, as did all the marine reptiles except ichthyosaurs and plesiosaurs. Invertebrates like brachiopods, gastropods, and molluscs were severely affected.
The first third of the Triassic was a recovery period from the end-Permian extinction. This greatest extinction in Earth’s history, eliminating approximately 70% of the species of land vertebrates and 90% of marine animal species, sharply reduced the number of different ways in which plants and animals made a living. 
Triassic period. The Triassic began after the worst mass extinction ever, at the end of the Permian. Life on Earth took a while to recover and diversify. The Triassic was characterised by heat, vast deserts and warm seas. Towards the end of the Triassic, 220 million years ago, there was another extinction, which wiped out many of the non-dinosaurs including the dicynodonts such as Placerias and primitive archosaurs such as Postosuchus. It was after this that dinosaurs really started to radiate
The Triassic /traɪˈaesɪk/ traɪˈæsɪk is a geologic period and system that extends from roughly 250 to 200 (mya.252 ± 17.0 06 to.201 ± 3.0 2 million years), ago an interval of.51 04 million. Years it is the first period of The Mesozoic, era and lies between The permian And jurassic. periods The Triassic period ended with a mass extinction, which was particularly severe in the oceans; the conodonts disappeared, as did all the marine reptiles except ichthyosaurs and plesiosaurs. Invertebrates like brachiopods, gastropods, and molluscs were severely affected.
The Mesozoic Era is divided into three periods: the Triassic Period, the Jurassic Period, , and the Cretaceous Period. The Triassic began around 248 million years ago, after the mass extinction that brought an end to the Permian Period. It lasted about 42 million years. The Triassic Period is the first period of the Mesozoic Era. The great extinction at the end of the Permian period had brought the end to 90% of the living species on Earth. The Triassic was a time of growing new species to repopulate the planet. A New Era. This time was the beginning of a new era,
Click here to download. The start of the Triassic period (and the Mesozoic era) was a desolate time in Earth's history. Something—a bout of violent volcanic eruptions, climate change, or perhaps a fatal run-in with a comet or asteroid—had triggered the extinction of more than 90 percent of Earth's species. By the end of the period 199 million years ago, tectonic forces had slowly begun to split the supercontinent in two: Laurasia in the north and Gondwana in the south.