How to help your anxious child. If a child is experiencing anxiety, there is plenty parents and carers can do to help. First and foremost, it’s important to talk to your child about their anxiety or worries.
You are not alone. Anxiety is the number one mental health problem facing children and adolescents today, but it is also the most treatable. If you are the parent of one of the millions of children who suffer from excessive fears and anxieties, we're here to help.
Children and Teens. Anxiety and depression are treatable, but 80% of kids with a diagnosable anxiety disorder and 60% of kids with diagnosable depression are not getting treatment, according to the 2015 Child Mind Institute Children’s Mental Health Report. Anxiety is a normal part of childhood, and every child goes through phases.
Here are things you can do at home to help your child manage his or her anxiety disorder: 1  Pay attention to your child’s feelings. 2  Stay calm when your child becomes anxious about a situation or event. 3  Recognize and praise small accomplishments. 4  Don’t punish mistakes or lack of progress.
There are a lot of things parents and caregivers can do to help an anxious child. They are as follows: 1  Be aware of your child’s different moods and feelings. 2  When your child becomes anxious, talk to him or her in a calming voice. 3  Realize that it is very difficult for the child to control his or her anxiety.
It is an unfortunate but very real fact that stress and anxiety in children is a common problem in today's fast-paced, high-tech, activity-packed society. If your child is experiencing stress and anxiety, try these simple but effective ways to help her manage her feelings. Don’t dismiss
This is because the child is looking to their parent for a signal of how to react to the situation. Children of all ages pick up on their parent's emotions and resonate with them. If you are anxious, your child will pick up on that anxiety and experience an increase in his/her own anxiety.