You may feel muscle aches and pains in a specific area of the body, such as your neck or back, or you may feel aches and pains all over, such as when you have the flu (influenza). Temporary skeletal muscle aches are often caused by minor muscle strain due to an awkward movement or overuse. This type of pain often involves just one or very few muscles and is relatively acute and intense.
Muscle aches are also known as muscle pain, myalgia, or simply pain in the muscles. Muscle aches are extremely common. Almost everybody has likely experienced discomfort in his or her muscles at some point. Not all muscle aches are related to stress, tension, and physical activity. Some medical explanations for myalgia include: 1  fibromyalgia. 2  infections, such as the flu. 3  lupus. 4  use of certain medications or drugs, such as statins, ACE inhibitors, or cocaine. 5  dermatomyositis (marked by inflammation and a rash)
Muscle aches and pains are common and can involve more than one muscle. Muscle pain also can involve ligaments, tendons, and fascia, the soft tissues that connect muscles, bones, and organs. See also: 1  Muscle cramps. 2  Joint pain. 
Other Causes. While physical exertion that leads to DOMS is the most common cause of muscular soreness, other factors can lead to muscle aches and pains. Muscles, especially those in the back and neck, can become sore from poor posture while standing, sitting or sleeping. Sometimes viruses and diseases such as the flu, colds and other conditions cause aches in the muscles. Arthritis and infections can also irritate muscle tissue and lead to muscular aches. Muscle aches can even be caused by physiological conditions, such as depression or anxiety, and be exacerbated by lack of rest, malnutrition and drugs.
The soreness is perceived as a dull, aching pain in the affected muscle, often combined with tenderness and stiffness. The pain is typically felt only when the muscle is stretched, contracted or put under pressure, not when it is at rest. The soreness is felt most strongly 24 to 72 hours after the exercise. It is thought to be caused by eccentric (lengthening) exercise, which causes microtrauma to the muscle fibers. After such exercise, the muscle adapts rapidly to prevent muscle damage, and thereby soreness, if the exercise is repeated.
Delayed onset muscle soreness (DOMS), also called muscle fever, is the pain and stiffness felt in muscles several hours to days after unaccustomed or strenuous exercise. The soreness is felt most strongly 24 to 72 hours after the exercise. It is thought to be caused by eccentric (lengthening) exercise, which causes microtrauma to the muscle fibers. After such exercise, the muscle adapts rapidly to prevent muscle damage, and thereby soreness, if the exercise is repeated.
The most common causes of muscle pain are tension, stress, overuse and minor injuries. This type of pain is usually localized, affecting just one or more muscles or parts of your body. Systemic muscle pain, which you feel throughout your body, is different. It's more often the result of an infection, an illness or a side effect of a medication. Common causes of muscle pain include: 1  Chronic exertional compartment syndrome. 2  Chronic fatigue syndrome
Usually abstaining from the activity, rest, ice, and anti-inflammatory medications help relieve the aches and pain associated with muscle overuse or injury. Muscle aches and pains can also be related to muscle cramping, which is often due to abnormal signaling from the nerves that supply the muscles. Temporary skeletal muscle aches are often caused by minor muscle strain due to an awkward movement or overuse. This type of pain often involves just one or very few muscles and is relatively acute and intense.
Often, people who experience muscle aches can easily pinpoint the cause. This is because most instances of myalgia result from too much stress, tension, or physical activity. Some common causes include: 1  muscle tension in one or more areas of the body. Not all muscle aches are related to stress, tension, and physical activity. Some medical explanations for myalgia include: 1  fibromyalgia. 2  infections, such as the flu. 3  lupus. 4  use of certain medications or drugs, such as statins, ACE inhibitors, or cocaine. 5  dermatomyositis (marked by inflammation and a rash)