The balance of free and slave states would be destroyed. The Missouri Compromise seemed to solve the problem by admitting Missouri as a slave state and Maine as a free state, keeping the number of free and slave states equal. It also divided the rest of the Louisiana Purchase into slave and free territory. 1.
The Missouri Compromise was an agreement between the North and the  South and passed by Congress in 1820 that allowed Missouri to be  admitted as the 24th state in 1821. One … slave state (Missouri) and  one free state (Maine) were admitted to the Union, maintaining the  balance. The Missouri Compromise was put forth by Senator Henry Clay in an attempt to prevent the addition of the new territory of Missouri, as a slave slate, from tipping the balance … of power in Congress to Southern States.
The Missouri Compromise was in 1820 - it determined the slave/free status of new states within the territory acquired from France in the Louisiana Purchase.  …    The Compromise of 1850 did the same thing for the territories acquired from Mexico after the Mexican war. It also established the 36-30 line, and said that slavery would not be allowed above that line except for in Missouri. The Compromise of 1850 admitted California as a free state, and gave the South stricter Fugitive Slave Laws as a way to balance the deal.
The Missouri Compromise was a United States federal statute devised by Henry Clay. It regulated slavery in the country's western territories by prohibiting the practice in the former Louisiana Territory north of the parallel 36°30′ north, except within the boundaries of the proposed state of Missouri. The compromise was agreed to by both the pro-slavery and anti-slavery factions in the United States Congress and passed as a law in 1820, under the presidency of James Monroe. The Missouri Compromise was effectively repealed by the Kansas–Nebraska Act, submitted to Congress by Stephen A. Douglas in January 1854
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The Missouri Compromise of 1820 admitted Missouri as a slave state, and Maine as a free state, to keep the balance of slave/non-slave states equal in Congress. It also established the 36-30 line, and said that slavery would not be allowed above that line except for in Missouri. The Compromise of 1850 admitted California as a free state, and gave the South stricter Fugitive Slave Laws as a way to balance the deal.
The Missouri Compromise of 1820 admitted Missouri as a slave state,  and Maine as a free state, to keep the balance of slave/non-slave  states equal in Congress. It also est … ablished the 36-30 line, and  said that slavery would not be allowed above that line except for  in Missouri. The Missouri Compromise was put forth by Senator Henry Clay in an attempt to prevent the addition of the new territory of Missouri, as a slave slate, from tipping the balance … of power in Congress to Southern States.
In 1820 an agreement called the Missouri Compromise was reached. The compromise allowed Missouri to come into the Union as a slave state and Maine would be a free state. Congress drew an imaginary line across the middle of the United States running from the east coast to the Pacific Ocean. Missouri Compromise.
In what came to be known as the Missouri Compromise, the Senate and House of Representatives worked out a deal that allowed Massachusetts' northernmost counties to apply for admission to the Union as a nonslave state called Maine while Missouri would be admitted as a slave state. 