1 If the video is not showing up, ensure that the Yellow plug is connected to the correct Input on the TV and Output on the DVD player. 2  If the audio is not coming through, ensure that the Red and White cables are plugged into the correct Input on the TV and the correct
OK, here's how to connect....... On the side of the TV is an input with 5 RCA jacks called COMPONENT. The three red/blue/green connect to the component out on the back of the DVD player. The the bottom 2 red/white RCA connections connect to the DVD player audio out jacks of the same color.
Instructions. Unplug the DVD player and the Vizio flat screen TV from the electrical outlet while connecting the two components. Insert the plugs on one end of the composite A/V cables into the Video and Audio OUT jacks on the back of the DVD player.
1 Use the Vizio remote control to select the set of jacks connecting the TV with the DVD player. 2  Press the Input button repeatedly until the DVD player signal appears on screen.
1 Set the DVD player on a shelf near the TV. 2  Make sure the DVD cables will reach the TV from the shelf you choose. 3  Because the player has a motor inside, it creates heat. 4  Placing the DVD on top of your TV may cause overheating [source: Fleischmann 5  ]. Connect your DVD player by plugging in the audio/video input jacks.
Plug the other ends of the cables into the Video and Audio IN jacks on the back of the Vizio flat screen TV, following the same color codes for the connections. Plug the DVD player and the Vizio electrical cords into a surge protector power strip, then plug the power strip into a wall outlet.
A DVD player connects with composite audio/video cables to the jacks on the back of a Vizio flat screen TV. The RCA-type plugs on both ends of the cables are color coded for fast connections between the two components.
Tips & Warnings. 1  Use the Vizio remote control to select the set of jacks connecting the TV with the DVD player. 2  Press the Input button repeatedly until the DVD player signal appears on screen. 3  Unplug the equipment from the power while connecting A/V cables.