1 The Black Swan (1999) is a fantasy novel written by Mercedes Lackey that re-imagines the original story and focuses heavily on Odile. 2  Von Rothbart's daughter is a sorceress in her own right who comes to sympathise with Odette. 1 Amiri & Odette (2009) is a verse retelling by Walter Dean Myers with illustrations by Javaka Steptoe. 2  Myers sets the story in the Swan Lake Projects of a large city. 3  Amiri is a basketball-playing “Prince of the Night”, a champion of the asphalt courts in the park.
exists and is an alternate of. Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answer by Aimsme. Confidence votes 54. Swansong is a dance performed by a trio-two 'guards' and a 'prisoner', with the former torturing the latter. The prisoner's dances are anguished and clearly show his fear and pain. The other two characters' motifs and dances show power as they torment him. The dance is interesting, powerful and shows lots of emotion. 
In 1871 he wrote a little ballet about swans for his nieces and nephews. He used some of the music from this ballet for Swan Lake. The story of the ballet is based on a German fairy tale. This tale was probably tweaked by Tchaikovsky and his friends during the ballet's early discussion stages. Swan Lake is about a prince named Siegfried. He falls in love with the Swan princess, Odette. She is a swan by day, but a young woman at night. She is under a magic spell that can only be broken by a man who will make a promise to love her for all time.
Swan Lake was first presented as a ballet in 1877. The libretto was written by Vladmir Petrovich Begichev and Vasily Fedorvich Geltser. They invited Pyoter Illich Tchaikovsky to write the music for the ballet and it is likely that he had a strong influence on the story's development. In 1871 Tchaikovsky had composed a little ballet called ‘The Lake of the Swans’ to entertain his sister’s children. It is believed that this is when the famous ‘Song of the Swans’ was written. At the time the ballet was created, fairy tales were very popular.
The Swan Song (Schwanengesang) is the nickname of the 1733 Baroque Concerto written by Georg Philipp Telemann: Concerto in D minor for oboe, strings and continuo. The phrase refers to an ancient belief that swans (Cygnus spp.) sing a beautiful song in the moment just before death, having been silent (or alternatively, not so musical) during most of their lifetime.
“The charismatic dancer, Rudolf Nureyev, created a Swan Lake, insofar as choreography, which, contrary to previous productions, made the Prince the principal character in the dramatic action: first of all sad, prey to “melancholy”, then in love, finally deceived and ending up destroyed. Swan Lake seen by Rudolf Nureyev. To me, Swan Lake is one long daydream of prince Siegfried. Reared on romantic reading, his desire for infinity has been fired and he refuses the reality of the power and the marriage forced on him by his tutor and his mother.
Tchaikovsky’s first ballet, Swan Lake is considered by many to be one of the greatest classical ballets of all time. Its romance and beauty has allowed the classic ballet to mesmorize audiences for more than 100 years. Jack Devant/Flickr. 
(The white swan is the untouchable woman, the black swan the reverse mirror image, just as the evil Rothbart is a corrupt substitute for Wolfgang, the tutor). And so when the dream fades away, the sanity of the prince does not know how to survive.. NUREYEV’S SWAN LAKE. Swan Lake seen by Rudolf Nureyev. To me, Swan Lake is one long daydream of prince Siegfried. Reared on romantic reading, his desire for infinity has been fired and he refuses the reality of the power and the marriage forced on him by his tutor and his mother.
Ballet may also refer to a ballet dance work, which consists of the choreography and music for a ballet production. A well-known example of this is The Nutcracker, a two-act ballet that was originally choreographed by Marius Petipa and Lev Ivanov with a music score by Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky.
The actual creation of Swan Lake with choreography by Marius Petipa and Lev Ivanov which became the reference version took place on 27th January (15 January according to the old Russian calendar) in 1895, two years after the disappearance of the composer. Swan Lake remained unknown for quite a long time in the west. Swan Lake seen by Rudolf Nureyev. To me, Swan Lake is one long daydream of prince Siegfried. Reared on romantic reading, his desire for infinity has been fired and he refuses the reality of the power and the marriage forced on him by his tutor and his mother.