Healthy individuals at sea level usually exhibit oxygen saturation values between 96% and 99%, and should be above 94%. At 5,280 feet altitude (one mile high) oxygen saturation should be above 92%. An SaO 2 (arterial oxygen saturation) value below 90% causes hypoxemia (which can also be caused by anemia). The needs of the body's blood oxygen may fluctuate such as during exercise when more oxygen is required or when living at higher altitudes. A blood cell is said to be saturated when carrying a normal amount of oxygen. Both too high and too low levels can have adverse effects on the body.
Low blood oxygen, known as hypoxemia, means that the level of oxygen in the blood has fallen below normal levels, due to one or more of many different causes. Under most circumstances, breathing room air, normal readings range from 95 to 100 percent. 
Oxygen saturation is a term referring to the fraction of oxygen-saturated hemoglobin relative to total hemoglobin (unsaturated + saturated) in the blood. The human body requires and regulates a very precise and specific balance of oxygen in the blood. Normal blood oxygen levels in humans are considered 95-100 percent. If the level is below 90 percent, it is considered low resulting in hypoxemia. Blood oxygen levels below 80 percent may compromise organ function, such as the brain and heart, and should be promptly addressed. Continued low oxygen levels may lead to respiratory or cardiac arrest. The needs of the body's blood oxygen may fluctuate such as during exercise when more oxygen is required or when living at higher altitudes. A blood cell is said to be saturated when carrying a normal amount of oxygen. Both too high and too low levels can have adverse effects on the body.
Newly oxygenated red blood cells carry oxygen to your body. A pulse oximeter uses light to measure the oxygen saturation level, the percentage of hemoglobin in your red blood cells carrying oxygen. Normal oxygen saturation levels fall between 95 and 99 percent. If you're in good health, normal blood oxygen levels almost always fall within a very predictable range. Medical professionals use two primary measurements for determining your blood oxygen level: oxygen saturation and arterial oxygen. The normal values differ for these measurements.
Though the pulse oximeter actually measures the saturation of oxygen in your blood, the results are often used as an estimate of blood oxygen levels. Normal pulse oximeter readings range from 95 to 100 percent, under most circumstances. Values under 90 percent are considered low. 1  Causes. In order to function properly, your body needs a certain level of oxygen circulating in the blood to cells and tissues. When this level of oxygen falls below a certain amount, hypoxemia occurs and you may experience shortness of breath.
Normal Blood Oxygen Levels. Healthy people have a normal range of oxygen saturation from 95% – 100%, although levels down to 90% are common and not usually cause for alarm. During exercise, the increased oxygen consumption may reduce blood saturation, but the increased breathing rate and blood flow compensate for this. Because hemoglobin saturated with CO (carbon monoxide) can not be differentiated from that with oxygen, a pulse oximetry test may indicate the blood level is normal, when in fact the oxygen levels are low. Share.
This measurement is called an arterial blood oxygen. A normal arterial blood oxygen level typically falls between 75 and 100 mmHg. Your blood carbon dioxide level and pH -- a measure of acidity or alkalinity -- are usually measured along with the arterial blood oxygen level. If you're in good health, normal blood oxygen levels almost always fall within a very predictable range. Medical professionals use two primary measurements for determining your blood oxygen level: oxygen saturation and arterial oxygen. The normal values differ for these measurements.
At sea level, a normal blood oxygen level (saturation) is usually 96 - 97%. Although there are no generally accepted classifications for severity of oxygen desaturation, reductions to not less than 90% usually are considered mild. Dips into the 80 - 89% range can be considered moderate, and those below 80% are severe. 
Hypoxemia, or low blood oxygen, describes a lower than normal level of oxygen in your blood. In order to function properly, your body needs a certain level of oxygen circulating in the blood to cells and tissues. When this level of oxygen falls below a certain amount, hypoxemia occurs and you may experience shortness of breath.