Whiplash is a relatively common injury that occurs to a person's neck following a sudden acceleration-deceleration force that causes unrestrained, rapid forward and backward movement of the head and neck, most commonly from motor vehicle accidents. The term whiplash was first used in 1928. 
Whiplash is a nonmedical term used to describe neck pain following an injury to the soft tissues of the neck (specifically ligaments, tendons, and muscles). It is caused by an abnormal motion or force applied to the neck that causes movement beyond the neck's normal range of motion. 
Whiplash is an injury to the ligaments and tendons in the neck when it is moved forwards, backwards or sideways, often as the result of a car crash. After an accident, the symptoms of whiplash may not be felt until around 6-12 hours later and may become worse over the following days. 
A. A. Whiplash, also called neck sprain or neck strain, is injury to the neck. Whiplash is characterized by a collection of symptoms that occur following damage to the neck. In whiplash, the intervertebral joints (located between vertebrae), discs, and ligaments, cervical muscles, and nerve roots may become damaged. However, people who experience whiplash may develop one or more of the following symptoms, usually within the first few days after the injury: 1  Neck pain and stiffness. 2  Headaches. 3  Pain in the shoulder or between the shoulder blades. 4  Low back pain. 5  Pain or numbness in the arm and/or hand.
Whiplash is a term that describes injury to the neck that occurs as a result of a motor vehicle or car accident. The most common type of car accident is the rear impact, and most typically, the occupant in the vehicle that gets rear-ended (hit from behind) is at the greatest risk of injury, including whiplash. Whiplash Video. Whiplash is an injury to the cervical region of the spine when a great force causes the neck to go beyond its normal range of motion. Neck Strains and Sprains Video. Neck strains affect the the muscles and tendons of the cervical spine, while neck sprains are ligament injuries.
An individual with a whiplash injury will experience stiffness, pain, headaches, muscle spasms, shoulder pain, and temporary loss of movement in the neck. Whiplash may also be caused by a powerful blow to the head, for example during rugby, American football, karate, or boxing. 
This type of injury is often the result of rear-end car crashes. Severe whiplash can also include injury to the intervertebral joints, discs, ligaments, cervical muscles and nerve roots. Symptoms of Whiplash. Most people experience neck pain either immediately after the injury or several days later. Other symptoms of whiplash may include the following: 1  Neck stiffness. 2  Injuries to the muscles and ligaments (myofascial injuries).
The pain of whiplash is often hard to ignore. The symptoms may include: 1  Pain, decreased range of motion, and tightness in the neck. 2  The muscles may feel hard or knotted. 3  Pain when rocking your head from side to side or backward and forward. 4  Tenderness. 5  Headaches at the base of the skull that radiate towards the forehead. The symptoms may include: 1  Pain, decreased range of motion, and tightness in the neck. 2  Pain when rocking your head from side to side or backward and forward. 3  Tenderness. 4  Headaches at the base of the skull that radiate towards the forehead.
Subscribe to our Pain Management Advisor e-newsletter for tips to manage pain. Whiplash typically occurs when a person's head is forcefully and quickly thrown backward and then forward. This motion can injure bones in the spine, disks between the bones, ligaments, muscles, nerves and other tissues of the neck. This type of injury may result from: 1  Auto accidents. 2  Rear-end collisions are the most common cause of whiplash. 3  Physical abuse or assault. 4  Whiplash may also result from incidents of being punched or shaken. 5  Whiplash is one of the injuries sustained in shaken baby syndrome.