If the polyp was removed by avulsion a healing period of 7-10 days may be sufficient. You may confirm the method of removal with your doctor or just wait for 2 weeks after the procedure before beginning sexual activity. I also advise to use condoms for the first 2 weeks to prevent any infection as the part may be raw. I have fibroids now for 2535 years that never have brothered me and always was told to leave them along and just keep a watch. My main concern is how long does the polyp, if okay, takes to heal and should I have been given antibiotics. Asked On: Thu, 13 Mar 2014. Answers: 1 Views: 265.
I had a cervical polyp removed Wednesday and awaiting test results. If okay how long should you wait before sex, how long does it takes to heal, I have no bleeding. I have fibroids now for 2535 years that never have brothered me and always was told to leave them along and just keep a watch. My main concern is how long does the polyp, if okay, takes to heal and should I have been given antibiotics. Asked On: Thu, 13 Mar 2014. Answers: 1 Views: 265.
Contact your doctor if you have adverse reactions to your medication, including diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, and rashes. 1  Cervicitis can become a serious, long term problem if it is not treated with the right medication and given time to heal properly. If you have infectious cervicitis caused by a virus, such as genital herpes, your doctor will prescribe antiviral medications to treat the virus. 1  If you have genital herpes, your doctor will prescribe the antiviral drug Acyclovir, which is taken for five days.
If the graft does not heal-this is called a pseudoarthrosis or non-union. The chance of the non-union is higher with PEEK cages and allograft and diminished with autograft. The time to healing for your own bone is about 6-8 weeks. The time to healing with allograft is about 3-4 months and with PEEK cages about 4 months. The way to determine healing is with X-rays including flexion and extension films. If there is any uncertainty, then a CT scan can be performed which is much more accurate.
I'm wanting to have another baby due to myself & boyfriend wanting to keep our babies close in age... My baby is 4 months old and I had to get a cerclage due to a shortened cervix. My doctor told me that I need time to heal from the cerclage... I'm just wondering if anyone has ever had a cerclage and got pregnant shortly after their first baby. I really want to start trying for another baby but I'm wondering if anyone has ever done it.
Total refers to the removal of the uterus and cervix. It does not apply to the ovaries being taken as that has a different term called a BSO (bilateral salpingo oopherectomy). One can have a total hysterectomy and keep one or both ovaries. I am getting a hysterectomy done tomorrow and I don't have sick pay. I was told I will need to take 6 weeks out of work, but my doctor will write me a note to go back to work if i heal and feel good.
Report Abuse. Take the six weeks as you WILL need it. A hysterectomy is MAJOR surgery. It also depends on what type of hysterectomy you're having but usually I have not seen or heard of anyone going back to work before their fourth recovery period and that's not with a TVH or TAH. I am getting a hysterectomy done tomorrow and I don't have sick pay. I was told I will need to take 6 weeks out of work, but my doctor will write me a note to go back to work if i heal and feel good.
Best Answer: The cervix takes 3-4 weeks to heal. Gynecologists recommend that you avoid tampons, intercourse and swimming until the discharge has stopped so that your cervix can heal quicker. 
Most gynecologists recommend 4 to 6 weeks off from work for recovery from any type of hysterectomy. I am fortunate that I have paid sick leave at my job and am covered by FMLA. I had a bladder lift with my hysterectomy and returned to work without restrictions 7 weeks after my procedure. I am getting a hysterectomy done tomorrow and I don't have sick pay. I was told I will need to take 6 weeks out of work, but my doctor will write me a note to go back to work if i heal and feel good.