CIMA is the largest management accounting body in the world, with more than 227,000 members and students in 179 countries. CIMA is also a member of the International Federation of Accountants. CIMA is recognised as a professional accounting body for various statutory purposes by UK and various overseas governments. The institute regulates the activities of its members by a code of practice, a discipline committee and (a recent innovation) a continuing education scheme.
CIMA was founded in 1919 as The Institute of Cost and Works Accountants (ICWA). It specialised in the development of accounting techniques for use in the internal control of manufacturing, service and public sector operations. CIMA is recognised as a professional accounting body for various statutory purposes by UK and various overseas governments. The institute regulates the activities of its members by a code of practice, a discipline committee and (a recent innovation) a continuing education scheme.
Answer: CIMA Canada is a branch of CIMA. All members of CIMA living in Canada can sign-up for CIMA Canada events including CPD events, the AGM, the summer Cricket tournament. Please make sure you update your profile on “My CIMA” so that you will receive updates for events in Canada. Answer: CIMA is the most relevant accounting qualification for business. Most accounting qualifications train people for private practice, working on external audit and tax issues. CIMA prepares people for a career in business.
CGMA for a Day. Experience a day in the life of an expert in management accounting. CGMA for a Day’ is an immersive, interactive tool that puts you in the management accounting hot seat and gives a high-level feel for the format of the CGMA exam.
The CGMA designation is free for CIMA members. For AICPA members who are eligible, the registration fee is $150 per year. Dual state CPA society-AICPA members receive a $50 savings, making the cost $100 per year. The experience required to become a CIMA is sufficient for the CGMA designation. Therefore, CIMA members are automatically entitled to become CGMA at no extra cost. All fees are included in the CIMA subscription. 3.
Only CIMA registered members in practice appear in this database. 1  If you are a CIMA member in practice who has received a practising certificate, and your details are not listed below, please contact pc.applications@cimaglobal.com. 2  If you would like to opt out of the database, also email pc.applications@cimaglobal.com. 1 If you are a CIMA member in practice who has received a practising certificate, and your details are not listed below, please contact pc.applications@cimaglobal.com. 2  If you would like to opt out of the database, also email pc.applications@cimaglobal.com.
If you are an ACMA, CGMA or have completed your CIMA exams, and can demonstrate at least three years' senior, strategic or technical leadership experience, you can apply for CIMA fellowship. There may be some additional benefits available to you through your regional office. View the drop down list to find out more. *Please note that members of CPA Australia or CMA Canada who are elected to CIMA membership through the 'preferred access' route after 31 January 2012 are not eligible to use the CGMA designation. All of this sets you apart from the crowd – giving you recognition as a financially qualified business leader and driving your career forward. As a CGMA, you get access to a wide range of benefits and services-explore what’s available to you and ensure you’re making the most of your membership.
In 2011, CIMA entered into a joint venture with the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) to launch a global management accounting designation called the Chartered Global Management Accountant (CGMA). In the Americas outside the U.S., non-U.S. CIMA is recognised as a professional accounting body for various statutory purposes by UK and various overseas governments. The institute regulates the activities of its members by a code of practice, a discipline committee and (a recent innovation) a continuing education scheme.
1 Strategic Alliance with the Institute of Cost and Management Accountants of Pakistan (ICMAP). 2  A joint venture with the AICPA to establish and promote a new, internationally recognised designation for management accounting — the Chartered Global Management Accountant (CGMA). CIMA is recognised as a professional accounting body for various statutory purposes by UK and various overseas governments. The institute regulates the activities of its members by a code of practice, a discipline committee and (a recent innovation) a continuing education scheme.