Lacy Rane / Getty Images. To prepare this roast pork loin recipe, we first rub a boneless pork loin with a simple blend of garlic and seasonings, and then roast it to perfection. Note that the final target temperature for this pork loin roast is 140° to 145°F, which is medium. The interior will have a lovely rosy color. 
Center cut loin roast is a lean, flavorful cut to roast. A succulent pork roast, surrounded by roasted vegetables or rice, is a tantalizing entree entrée at any dinner. Table while such a meal is enjoyed by, many often cooks hesitate to cook pork roast for concern of it drying. out Tips. 1  Center cut pork roast is often labeled under other names, such as center loin roast and loin roast center cut. 2  The butcher at the grocery store or meat market can assist in finding the correct cut of pork. 3  Indirect grilling and smoking are two other popular ways to prepare a pork roast.
Remove the roast to a plate, cover with aluminum foil, and allow to rest for 10 to 15 minutes. Place the roast back onto the grill pan, put in the oven and cook until it reaches an internal temperature of 135 degrees F, approximately 15 to 20 minutes. Remove from the oven, wrap in foil, and allow to rest for 30 minutes before cutting. Combine kosher salt, black pepper, and cumin in a shallow dish. Roll roast in seasonings, coating well. Preheat a cast iron grill pan over high heat. Once the pan is hot, brush the roast with the olive oil, and sear on all sides, approximately 8 to 10 minutes total cooking time.
Cook until the internal temperature of the pork reaches 145 to 150 degrees F. To check for doneness, insert an instant read thermometer into the thickest part of the roast. There should be a little bit of pink inside when you check, as the pork will continue to cook and increase in temperature once out of the oven. Tips. 1  Center cut pork roast is often labeled under other names, such as center loin roast and loin roast center cut. 2  The butcher at the grocery store or meat market can assist in finding the correct cut of pork. 3  Indirect grilling and smoking are two other popular ways to prepare a pork roast.
With a pork tenderloin: Season the meat, sear all sides in a very hot pan, and then finish in the oven at 350°F (175°C) degrees until the internal temp. hits 145°F (63°C). Then let it sit for 10 minutes, and cut 'er up. If you need it done faster, a higher oven temp will accomplish this, but may compromise quality. 
Add oil to frying pan and heat over medium high until the pan starts to smoke -- about 5 minutes. Add the seasoned roast and brown on all sides -- about 2 to 3 minutes per side. If the cut of pork has fat, be sure to brown in the pan fat side up at first. Tips. 1  Center cut pork roast is often labeled under other names, such as center loin roast and loin roast center cut. 2  The butcher at the grocery store or meat market can assist in finding the correct cut of pork. 3  Indirect grilling and smoking are two other popular ways to prepare a pork roast.
1 Rub the meat with the remaining garlic mixture and olive oil. 2  Place pork loin into oven, turning and basting with pan liquids. 3  Cook until the pork is no longer pink in the center, about 1 hour. 4  An instant-read thermometer inserted into the center should read 145 degrees F (63 degrees C). 5  Remove roast to a platter. 1 Place pork loin into oven, turning and basting with pan liquids. 2  Cook until the pork is no longer pink in the center, about 1 hour. 3  An instant-read thermometer inserted into the center should read 145 degrees F (63 degrees C). 4
1 Remove pork from oven, lightly cover with foil, and let rest 5-10 minutes to redistribute internal juices. 2  Roast should be done, very slightly pink in the center, and very moist. 3  After resting 10 minutes, the roast should reach a safe 145-150 degrees. 
Remove the roast from the oven and set on a cutting board. Cover the meat with tin foil and let it rest for about 15 minutes before slicing it. The temperature of the roast will continue to rise about another 5 degrees. WIth a roast, you generally want to cook to an internal temperature, not a time. But, when you lay it out butterflied, it’s thinner and more of the meat is exposed to heat, so if you were to cook it at 350 degrees at a 1/2 hour/lb. a 6 lb roast would end up ruinously overdone.