Adenomyosis. Adenomyosis is a diffuse thickening of the uterus that occurs when the tissue that normally lines the uterus (endometrium) moves into its muscular outer wall and behaves like the endometrium. When this happens in a small area, or is localized, it is called an adenomyoma. 1 | 2. From conception to delivery, a woman's uterus can grow from the size of a pear to the size of a watermelon. But pregnancy isn't the only potential reason for an enlarged uterus. An enlarged uterus is common and can be a symptom of a variety of medical conditions, some of which require treatment.
A bulky uterus, a condition that is also called adenomyosis, occurs when the endometrial lining grows into the muscle of the uterus. Women who have had children and are older than 30 are more likely to develop a bulky uterus. Women over the age of 30 who have already had children are more likely to develop a bulky uterus. A bulky uterus may occur after a woman has had a Cesarean section. Birth control can be taken to reduce the pain and bleeding associated with a bulky uterus. The uterus is part of the female reproductive system. Sharp cramps may be a sign of
A bulky uterus: usually means that you have adenomyosis or fibroid tumors in the uterus. These conditions frequently require surgical removal of the uterus. However, most women go into menopause and stop bleeding around your age. If you can control symptoms until menopause, you won't need surgery. Get help from a doctor now ›. Depends: If you have lots of fibroids that makes you look like you are pregnant, then surgery is an option. They can remove the fibroids or if needed, perform a hysterectomy However, if you have a solitary fibroids, you can undergo embolization with an interventional radiologist.
Bulky Uterus. Before everyone panics, I just want to say that there are so many things it can mean! I just got results from an ultrasound yesterday saying I also had a Bulky uterus. In my case, my doctor believes I have what is called adenomyosis. Google it. Its interesting and fits in with every symptom i have.
bulky uterus. Hi, I have bulky uterus as well. My doctor said that I have adenomyosis and that is the cause of it. I have got it since I was 31 years old and now I'm 36. I just got results from an ultrasound yesterday saying I also had a Bulky uterus. In my case, my doctor believes I have what is called adenomyosis. Google it. Its interesting and fits in with every symptom i have.
Adenomyosis (pronounced A-den-oh-my-oh-sis) is a medical condition characterized by the presence of ectopic glandular tissue found in muscle. The term adenomyosis is derived from the Greek terms adeno- (meaning gland), myo- (meaning muscle), and-osis (meaning condition). Previously named as endometriosis interna, adenomyosis differs from endometriosis and these two diseases are found together in 10% of the cases. The term adenomyometritis specifically implies involvement of the uterus. The condition is typically found in women between the ages of 35 and 50. Patients with adenomyosis can have painful and/or profuse menses (dysmenorrhea & menorrhagia, respectively).
Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: A retroverted uterus (tilted uterus, tipped uterus) is a uterus that is tilted backwards instead of forwards. This is in contrast to the slightly anteverted uterus that most women have, which is tipped forward toward the bladder, with the anterior end slightly concave. One in three to five women (depending on the source) has a retroverted uterus, which is tipped backwards towards the spine. Source(s): 
The above ultrasound images show what is called a bulky uterus. This term is used when the uterus is larger than normal for the age of the patient. The above is an ultrasound video clip of a case of bulky uterus seen in sagittal section. Observe the increased size of the liver without any other pathology. This was a middle aged (52 year) old female patient with back pain. Bulky uterus is a common finding among middle aged menopausal women.