Research accounts for a substantial portion of the cost of hearing aids. — Corbis. En espanol español L just as you can buy$ 3 reading glasses at the, supermarket you can get a pair of hearing aids for a few hundred dollars online or at a-big box. store You can buy a hearing aid anywhere, but it will only be as good as the person fitting it, says St. Joseph, Mich., audiologist Gyl A. Kasewurm. Using the average price of $4,400 for a pair of hearing aids, we break down the costs below. Please note that these figures are estimates drawn from a variety of sources, including discussions and correspondence with audiologists, manufacturers and industry experts. Overall cost — $4,400. Costs for the manufacturer:
Plan for the expense. The cost of hearing aids varies widely — from about $1,500 to a few thousand dollars. Professional fees, remote controls, hearing aid accessories and other hearing aid options may cost extra. Talk to your audiologist about your needs and expectations. 
1 They fit entirely in the ear canal, and cost between $150 and more than $5,000. 2  Facelake offers a basic CIC hearing aid for under $150. 3  Siemens offers a CIC version of the Nitro 16, for about $5,000. 1 Patients also need a hearing aid selection appointment, which can be free with purchase or cost up to $250, depending upon the clinic. 2  The Cleveland Clinic charges about $100 for hearing needs assessment. 3  There are several different types of hearing aids. 4  Behind-the-ear (BTE) hearing aids cost between $450 and $5,6
Here’s another way to think about the price of hearing aids. An average pair of hearing aids is $4800 and they have a life expectancy of about five years. If you break it down, the hearing aids will cost you $960 per year, $80 per month or $2.66 per day. In other words, while the initial amount sounds high, the ongoing usage price is reasonable. Monthly, it is about what you would pay to get satellite or cable television. A recent survey published by the Hearing Review found that mid-range hearing aids average around $4,000 a pair and most insurance providers do not cover this cost. The high price tag is often a barrier to getting the help and hearing relief hearing aids provides, but it doesn't have to be.
According to a survey recently published by the Hearing Review, the average price of a mid-level pair of aids hovers between $4,400 and $4,500. Prices vary by region. At UCLA's Audiology Clinic, for example, the average price is $4,200, says audiologist Alison Grimes. You can buy a hearing aid anywhere, but it will only be as good as the person fitting it, says St. Joseph, Mich., audiologist Gyl A. Kasewurm. Using the average price of $4,400 for a pair of hearing aids, we break down the costs below. Please note that these figures are estimates drawn from a variety of sources, including discussions and correspondence with audiologists, manufacturers and industry experts. Overall cost — $4,400. Costs for the manufacturer:
1 Behind-the-ear (BTE) hearing aids cost between $450 and $5,600. 2  Economy Hearing Products offers a very basic BTE hearing aid for about $630. 3  ReSound Azure retails for about $2,600 with programmable volume control settings, an open fit to minimize a plugged up sensation in the ear and a 330-hour battery. 1 Patients also need a hearing aid selection appointment, which can be free with purchase or cost up to $250, depending upon the clinic. 2  The Cleveland Clinic charges about $100 for hearing needs assessment. 3  There are several different types of hearing aids. 4  Behind-the-ear (BTE) hearing aids cost between $450 and $5,600
1 In-the-canal (ITC) hearing aids are much smaller devices that fit entirely within the ear, but not entirely within the ear canal. 2  A set costs between $300 and $5,600. 3  The MicroPod 32 automatically adjusts to different hearing environments and retails for about $1,000. 1 Patients also need a hearing aid selection appointment, which can be free with purchase or cost up to $250, depending upon the clinic. 2  The Cleveland Clinic charges about $100 for hearing needs assessment. 3  There are several different types of hearing aids. 4  Behind-the-ear (BTE) hearing aids cost between $450 and $5,6
The price of a hearing aid typically includes the cost of the hearing examination, the device consultation and fitting time (including post-fitting adjustments), follow-up appointments, cleanings and a device warranty that can range from one to three years. A recent survey published by the Hearing Review found that mid-range hearing aids average around $4,000 a pair and most insurance providers do not cover this cost. The high price tag is often a barrier to getting the help and hearing relief hearing aids provides, but it doesn't have to be.