psychographic segmentation noun [U]. › MARKETING the way that a ​company ​divides its ​customers into ​groups ​based on their ​opinions, ​interests, and ​emotions: Psychographic ​segmentation showed that the ​car ​appealed to ​mature ​single ​professional men.
Psychographic studies of individuals or communities can be valuable in the fields of marketing, demographics, opinion research, futuring, and social research in general. They can be contrasted with demographic variables (such as age and gender), behavioral variables (such as usage rate or loyalty), and organizational demographics variables (sometimes called firmographic variables), such as industry, number of employees, and functional area.
Definition of Psychographic Segmentation. Psychographic segmentation is dividing your market based upon consumer personality traits, values, attitudes, interests, and lifestyles. Segmentation will allow you to better develop and market your products because there will be a more precise match between the product and each segment's needs and wants. Psychographic segmentation involves dividing your market into segments based upon different personality traits, values, attitudes, interests, and lifestyles of consumers.
Psychographic Segmentation. Segmentation is used mainly to target a certain group from within a population. Psychographic segmentation is one which uses peoples lifestyle, their activities, interests as well as opinions to define a market segment. Psychographic segmentation is quite similar to behavioral segment
When a relatively complete profile of a person or group's psychographic make-up is constructed, this is called a psychographic profile. Psychographic profiles are used in market segmentation as well as in advertising. Some categories of psychographic factors used in market segmentation include: They can be contrasted with demographic variables (such as age and gender), behavioral variables (such as usage rate or loyalty), and organizational demographics variables (sometimes called firmographic variables), such as industry, number of employees, and functional area.
Lesson Summary. Psychographic segmentation involves dividing your market into segments based upon different personality traits, values, attitudes, interests, and lifestyles of consumers. This segmentation is advantageous because it allows you to engage in product design and marketing in a focused manner. Psychographic segmentation involves dividing your market into segments based upon different personality traits, values, attitudes, interests, and lifestyles of consumers
VALS (Values, Attitudes And Lifestyles) is a proprietary research methodology used for psychographic market segmentation. Market segmentation is designed to guide companies in tailoring their products and services in order to appeal to the people most likely to purchase them. 
Psychographics is the study of personality, values, opinions, attitudes, interests, and lifestyles. Because this area of research focuses on interests, attitudes, and opinions, psychographic factors are also called IAO variables. They can be contrasted with demographic variables (such as age and gender), behavioral variables (such as usage rate or loyalty), and organizational demographics variables (sometimes called firmographic variables), such as industry, number of employees, and functional area.
Definition of PSYCHOGRAPHICS. : market research or statistics classifying population groups according to psychological variables (as attitudes, values, or fears); also: variables or trends identified through such research. — psy·cho·graph·ic \-fik\ adjective. — psy·cho·graph·i·cal·ly \-fi-k(ə-)lē\ adverb. ADVERTISEMENT. 