Hemoglobin is also found outside red blood cells and their progenitor lines. Other cells that contain hemoglobin include the A9 dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra, macrophages, alveolar cells, and mesangial cells in the kidney. Hemoglobin and hemoglobin-like molecules are also found in many invertebrates, fungi, and plants. In these organisms, hemoglobins may carry oxygen, or they may act to transport and regulate other things such as carbon dioxide, nitric oxide, hydrogen sulfide and sulfide.
Definition. A high hemoglobin count indicates an above-average concentration of the oxygen-carrying protein hemoglobin in your blood. Hemoglobin (Hg or Hgb) is the main component of red blood cells. Hemoglobin count-also referred to as hemoglobin level-indicates your blood's oxygen-carrying capacity. A high hemoglobin count is somewhat different from a high red blood cell count, because each cell may not have the same amount of hemoglobin proteins
High hemoglobin with a high RBC count and high hematocrit indicates polycythemia. Some causes include: 1  Lung (pulmonary) disease —if someone is unable to breathe in and absorb sufficient oxygen, the body tries to compensate by producing more red blood cells. The hemoglobin test is often used to check for anemia, usually along with a hematocrit or as part of a complete blood count (CBC) . The test may be used to screen for, diagnose, or monitor a number of conditions and diseases that affect red blood cells (RBCs) and/or the amount of hemoglobin in blood.
High hemoglobin count may occur because: 1  Your red blood cell production increases to compensate for chronically low blood oxygen levels due to poor heart or lung function. 2  You have a bone marrow dysfunction that results in increased production of red blood cells. 1
This is a blood test to find out how much hemoglobin is in your blood. Hemoglobin is the main part of your red blood cells. Hemoglobin is made up of a protein called globin and a compound called heme. Heme consists of iron and a pigment called porphyrin, which gives your blood its red color. Hemoglobin serves the important role of carrying oxygen and carbon dioxide through your blood. A CBC is a blood test that counts all the different cells in your blood. A hemoglobin test may also be paired with a hematocrit test. When the two are tested together it is often called an H and H. The hematocrit blood test tells what percent of your blood is made up by
Guide. A glycohemoglobin test, or hemoglobin A1c, is a blood test that checks the amount of sugar (glucose) bound to the hemoglobin in the red blood cells. When hemoglobin and glucose bond, a coat of sugar forms on the hemoglobin. 
The threshold for a high hemoglobin count is slightly different from one medical practice to another. It's generally defined as more than 17.5 grams (g) of hemoglobin per deciliter (dL) of blood for men and 15.5 g/dL for women. In children, the definition of a high hemoglobin count varies with age and sex. Hemoglobin (Hg or Hgb) is the main component of red blood cells. Hemoglobin count-also referred to as hemoglobin level-indicates your blood's oxygen-carrying capacity.
Hemoglobin (/ˈhiːmɵˌɡloʊbɨn/); also spelled haemoglobin and abbreviated Hb or Hgb, is the iron-containing oxygen-transport metalloprotein in the red blood cells of all vertebrates (with the exception of the fish family Channichthyidae) as well as the tissues of some invertebrates. Hemoglobin and hemoglobin-like molecules are also found in many invertebrates, fungi, and plants. In these organisms, hemoglobins may carry oxygen, or they may act to transport and regulate other things such as carbon dioxide, nitric oxide, hydrogen sulfide and sulfide.
Possible causes of elevated hemoglobin. A high hemoglobin count usually suggests that you have too many red blood cells. This condition is also called erythrocytosis. It can lead to a several complications because it can impair circulation and lead to abnormal clotting. Hemoglobin is a protein-based component of red blood cells whose primary role is to transfer the oxygen from the lungs to the rest of the body. Hemoglobin is actually the reason why red blood cells appear red, although oxygen-rich blood is noticeably brighter than the depleted blood returning to the heart and lungs.