Kefir is a fermented milk product similar to yogurt, which originated in Russia. This tangy, creamy milk product is sometimes referred to as the “champaign of milk” because of its fizzy effervescence. 
The bacteria used to make yogurt are known as yogurt cultures. Fermentation of lactose by these bacteria produces lactic acid, which acts on milk protein to give yogurt its texture and characteristic tang. Worldwide, cow 's milk, the protein of which is mainly casein, is most commonly used to make yogurt. Milk from water buffalo, goats, ewes, mares, camels, and yaks, however, is also used to produce yogurt in various parts of the world
Definition. Ice cream and frozen yogurt are both frozen treats made from dairy, but there is a significant difference that sets them apart. In order for a frozen treat to be legally labeled as ice cream, it must contain at least 10 percent milkfat
Strained yogurt, Greek yogurt, yogurt cheese, labneh (Arabic: لبنة ‎ labnah), is yogurt which has been strained to remove its whey, resulting in a relatively thick consistency (between that of conventional yogurt and cheese), while preserving yogurt's distinctive, sour taste. 
Soy. As the most common non-dairy alternative, it's not surprising that soy yogurts are quite easy to find. Usually made from soy milk, a culture starter and a thickening agent, soy yogurt contains the same beneficial probiotics as its dairy cousin. However, soy also carries its own health controversy as a common allergen and frequent GMO. Yogurt does a body good, dairy or not. When living a dairy-free lifestyle, it's not unusual to crave certain comfort foods from your dairy days. However, most of these milk-based cravings are easily avoided when striving for a healthy diet
Dairy. All foods derived from or containing milk are considered dairy, or milchig (Yiddish). This includes milk, butter, yogurt and all cheese -- hard, soft and cream. Even a small amount of dairy in a food can cause the food to be considered dairy. All dairy products require kosher certification.
Greek Yogurt, Nutrition. Comments. Greek yogurt is considered a dairy product in most cases. Greek yogurt is traditionally made from animal or mammal milk from cows, goats, or even buffalo. Technically, you can make yogurt from any mammal that produces milk. However, there are even “ yogurts ” or yogurt-like products made from soy, nut, coconut, or almond milk, which are often labeled as “dairy free”.
Dairy products are made from animal milk, and include butter, cheese, cream and so forth. In supermarkets, vegetal dairy products such as those based on soy milk, rice milk, … grain or nut milk are sold in the same aisle as animal dairy products. Yogurt has milk in it. Milk can help make many things such as-butter, cream cheese, cheese, cream, yogurt, and skimmed milk.