Some county elections officials allow you to check the status of your voter registration through their website, by telephone, or both. To find out if you are currently registered to vote in your county, click on the appropriate link below or call the phone number listed for the county elections office. For further information about the elections services provided in your county, visit our County Elections offices page. Simply enter your zip code with the U.S. Census Bureau or call our voter hotline at (800) 345-VOTE. If you are not registered to vote, you can fill out an online voter registration application.
1 be a United States citizen; 2  be 18 years old by December 31 of the year in which you file this form (note: you must be 18 years old by the date of the general, primary or other election in which you want to vote); 3  live at your present address at least 30 days before an election; 1 You can call our 1-800-FOR-VOTE hotline to request a voter application. 2  You can download a. 3  version of the New York State Voter Registration Form. 4  Download English Form (279KB). 5  Download Spanish Form (300KB). 6  Print the form, complete and sign it, and mail it to your county board of elections.
To have a paper application mailed to you call your county elections office or the Secretary of State's toll-free voter hotline at (800) 345-VOTE. Simply enter your zip code with the U.S. Census Bureau or call our voter hotline at (800) 345-VOTE. If you are not registered to vote, you can fill out an online voter registration application.
​​The deadline to register 21 days before Election Day. To register to vote in Oregon, you must be a U.S. citizen, an Oregon resident and at least 17 years old. Online registration requires a current Oregon drivers license or state ID card. ​​​​​​​​​​​ ​ ​. Registering to vote in Oregon is quick and simple. Oregonians can register: 1  Online using My Vote. 2  By mail using a voter registration form​ (PDF). 3  This form also is available en Espanol. 4  Español in person at the county elections.  office
To have your name placed on the Permanent Early Voter List (PEVL), complete a new voter registration form and check the box marked “YES, I want to automatically receive an early ballot for each election for which I am eligible.” Or you can log in to Service Arizona and complete this request online. 1 You would like to change your political party affiliation. 2  Online – If you have an Arizona Driver License and/or an Arizona non-operating I.D. card issued by the Motor Vehicle Division (MVD) you may update your voter registration online.
To use this page, you must be a registered voter in the New York State. Please enter your Last Name, First Name, Date of Birth, County and Address information and press the Search button Mandatory Fields are indicated by *. Voter Information. 
No voter may vote in the primary election of any political party other than the party he or she has disclosed a preference for upon registering to vote. However, a political party may authorize a person who has declined to disclose a party preference to vote in that party's primary election. voters-formerly known as decline-to-state voters) to vote in their presidential primary election. A political party must notify the Secretary of State's office whether or not they will allow no party preference voters to vote in their presidential primary election 135 days before the election.
FIND VOTER REGISTRATION STATUS. Search for voter registration status (Active or Inactive), party affiliation, and the polling place address.(The first and last names must match those on the voter registration record. You can leave Middle Name and Suffix blank.). Select a County. 
1 Fill in one of the boxes to select a party registration (Democratic Party, Republican Party, and Other). 2  If you check “Other”, please type in the name of your chosen entity. 3  You may choose, Constitution, Green, Libertarian, Reform, Socialist Workers, independent status, or something else of your choice. 1 Fill out the address where you receive your mail if it is different from the residential address where you live. 2  Fill in one of the boxes to select a party registration (Democratic Party, Republican Party, and Other). 3
How and Where to register to Vote (Deadlines). 1  You can register in person at your county board of elections. 2  or at any New York State Agency-Based voter registration center. 3  You can enter your name directly into our mailing list database to have a New York State Voter Registration Form mailed to you. 1 You can call our 1-800-FOR-VOTE hotline to request a voter application. 2  You can download a. 3  version of the New York State Voter Registration Form. 4  Download English Form (279KB). 5  Download Spanish Form (300KB). 6  Print the form, complete and sign it, and mail it to