Though some seeds germinate best at a soil temperature of 60 degrees F, and some at 85 degrees, most prefer a temperature of about 78 degrees. If the soil is too cold, seeds may take much longer to germinate, or they may not germinate at all. To provide additional warmth, you can use a heat mat or place the containers on top of a warm refrigerator, television, or keep them in a warm room until the seeds germinate.
As a general rule, seeds will germinate indoors where the soil temperature is held constant. In nature, the soil temperature is usually lower at night. Therefore, an indoor drop in temperature at night of less than 10ºF will not significantly delay seedling emergence. Sowing Seeds Indoors. The average gardener finds the optimal germination temperature for any seed printed on the seed packet or in the seed catalog. Sometimes, the instructions offer only a month to sow outdoors, or the number of weeks before last frost to sow indoors.
Heat – Marijuana seeds can germinate in many temperature conditions, but grow best between 75 and 80 degrees Fahrenheit (23-26 C). Cooler temperatures slow seed germination and promote fungal growth such as fusarium and pythium which can rot the seed and root. Temperatures above 90 degrees can also inhibit germination. 
Temperature is key when it comes to getting seeds to germinate. Pepper seeds require the right combination of heat and dampness to get the growing process started. Cold temperatures slow germination and, when too cold, will prevent germination from happening at all. Germination Temperature for Peppers. Pepper seeds require a temperature range between 65 and 95 degrees Fahrenheit. The optimum temperature for germination is 85 degrees Fahrenheit. At the optimum temperature, pepper seeds germinate and sprout within eight days. The best way to control soil temperature when planting pepper seeds is to use a seed starting flat and a heating pad
That is the fundamental relationship between germination and temperature. For every species of seed, there is an optimal soil temperature for germination, and at that temperature, the maximum number of seeds will germinate and in less time than at any other temperature. Sowing Seeds Indoors. The average gardener finds the optimal germination temperature for any seed printed on the seed packet or in the seed catalog. Sometimes, the instructions offer only a month to sow outdoors, or the number of weeks before last frost to sow indoors.
Wait for Germination: If temperature is kept consistently and sufficiently warm, your tomato seeds will usually germinate within 5 to 10 days. Best to keep temperature range 70 to 80F (21 to 27C). The lower the temperature the slower the germination. However, temperatures below 50F (10C) or above 95F (35C) are poor for germination. 
The effect of soil temperature on sown seeds. The chart below displays the relationship between soil temperature, days to emergence, and the percentage of sown seeds to germinate: As you might expect, the percentage of any seeds to germinate is maximum at the optimal temperature for that species. Sowing Seeds Indoors. The average gardener finds the optimal germination temperature for any seed printed on the seed packet or in the seed catalog. Sometimes, the instructions offer only a month to sow outdoors, or the number of weeks before last frost to sow indoors.
After germination, most seedlings grow best if the air temperature is below 70 degrees F. If temperatures are too warm (over 75), the seedlings will grow too fast and get weak and leggy. Most seedlings grow fine in air temperatures as low as 50 degrees, as long as soil temperature is maintained at about 65 to 70. If the soil is too cold, seeds may take much longer to germinate, or they may not germinate at all. To provide additional warmth, you can use a heat mat or place the containers on top of a warm refrigerator, television, or keep them in a warm room until the seeds germinate.
Temperature, moisture, air, and light conditions must be correct for seeds to germinate. All seeds have optimal temperature ranges for germination (Table 1). The minimum temperature is the lowest temperature at which seeds can germinate effectively. The maximum is the highest temperature at which seeds can germinate. 