That is the fundamental relationship between germination and temperature. For every species of seed, there is an optimal soil temperature for germination, and at that temperature, the maximum number of seeds will germinate and in less time than at any other temperature. 
1 The length of time it takes for your seeds to germinate is heavily related to soil temperature. 2  Tomato seeds should germinate within 5-6 days if you can keep the soil temperature around 80º F. Peppers take a little longer with a little higher temperature (7-8 days at 85º F). 
Planting Green Onions. Plant onion seed as soon as the soil can be worked in the spring. Onion seeds germinate in a wide range of soil temperature, between 65° F and 86° F. Sow and cover seed with ½” of soil and keep moist. Seeds can be started indoors 6-8 weeks prior to planting. They can be set in the garden about 1-1½” apart
Seeds germinate when the soil reaches a specific temperature range surrounding an optimal temperature. The closer the temperature is to the optimal temperature for seed germination, the more seeds will germinate in the shortest amount of time. For example, although 90 percent of all onion seeds will germinate if planted at 32 degrees Fahrenheit, they will take up to 136 days to sprout. By contrast, 99 percent of onion seeds will germinate if planted at 68 degrees Fahrenheit and will take less than five days to grow. 
Plant onion seed as soon as the soil can be worked in the spring. Onion seed germinates in a wide range of soil temperature, 18-29°C (65-85°F). Sow and cover onion seed with ½” of soil and keep moist. Onions cCan be started indoors 6-8 weeks prior to planting in the spring. Thin or transplant to 3-4” apart in rows 18-24” apart. To plant onion sets, simply press sets into the soil about 2” apart. Later thin to about 4-6” apart to allow bulbs to mature.
Plant onion seeds to a depth of ¼ to 1/2 inch and press the soil down firmly with your hands. Plant three seeds to a cell or peat pot. 
Onions like a cool temperature to start and then need heat to form a large bulb. This vegetable is grown from sets, seeds or transplants. Sets consist of small dry bulbs that are grown and harvested the previous year for the purpose of being replanted and grown to produce bulbs. Maintain uniform moisture. Seeds will take up to 4 weeks to germinate, so do not fret too soon. Limit height of transplants to 3-4 inches tall, cut with scissors to stay upright. After transplanting they need to get a second feeding of compost or organic fertilizer within 6 to 8 weeks.
1 Onion seeds sprout usually within 7 to 10 days. 2  Minimum temperature for sprouting is 55°F (12.8°C); as the soil temperature increases from 55°F to 75°F the percentage of seeds sprouting will increase and the time to emergence decreases. 3  Onions are adapted to a wide range of temperatures and they are frost tolerant. 
Onion Seeds Germinating When it comes to onion seeds germinating, temperature plays an active role. While typically germination occurs within 7-10 days, soil temperature affects this process. For instance, the cooler the soil temperature, the longer it will take for onion seeds to germinate – up to two weeks. Warm soil temperatures, on the other hand, can trigger onion seed germination in as little as four days. Growing Onion Seed Plants Once seedlings have sufficient leaf growth, thin them down to around 3-4 inches apart.
2. Outdoors: Onion seeds will germinate in around 2 weeks when the soil temperature is 10°C (50°F). At 24°C (75°F) and above seeds will only take 3-5 days to sprout. Sowing onion seed outdoors under cloches or polytunnels can be done 2-3 weeks earlier with this added protection. Sow seeds 2.5cm (1) deep and spaced roughly 2.5cm (1) apart. Space the rows or double rows at least 50cm (20) apart.