What does Barbaros mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Barbaros is of Greek origin. The meaning of Barbaros is foreigner, stranger, traveler from a foreign land. Barbaros is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 8 letters and 3 syllables and is pronounced Bar-ba-ros. In the U.S. in 2014 less than 5 boys given the name. Less than 5 girls were
The Ancient Greek word βάρβαρος (barbaros), barbarian, was an antonym for πολίτης (politēs), citizen (from πόλις - polis, city-state). The sound of barbaros onomatopoetically evokes the image of babbling (a person speaking a non-Greek language). Evidently, the barbarian tribes at first had individual names, but during about the middle of the first millennium B.C., they were classified schematically according to the four cardinal points of the compass.
English Meaning: The name Barbara is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Barbara is: From the Greek barbaros meaning foreign or strange, traveler from a foreign land. Popular in medieval Britain after the 3rd century martyr St Barbara. In Catholic custom St. Barbara is a protectress against fire and lightning. The name Barbara is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Barbara is: From the Greek barbaros meaning foreign or strange, traveler from a foreign land. Popular in medieval Britain after the 3rd century martyr St Barbara.
from the imperial Roman personal name Barbarus (for the etymology see Barbara 1).from Barbaro, a byname or nickname also originally denoting a person of non-Greek or Roman origin, which in the Middle Ages came to mean a non-Christian, specifically an Arab or Saracen. The information for this chart came from the U.S. Immigration Collection at Ancestry. You can find out where the majority of the Barbaro families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records.
The Romans (technically themselves barbaroi) took up the word and applied it to tribes or nations which had no Greek or Roman accomplishments. The noun is from late 14c., person speaking a language different from one's own, also (c. 1400) native of the Barbary coast; meaning rude, wild person is from 1610s. 
Indeed, in the Greek of this period 'barbarian' is often used expressly to refer to Persians, who were enemies of the Greeks in this war. Greek barbaros was the etymological source for many words meaning barbarian, including English barbarian, which was first recorded in 16th-century Middle English. A word barbara-is also found in the Sanskrit of ancient India. The Greek word barbaros is related to Sanskrit barbaras (stammering). Evidently, the barbarian tribes at first had individual names, but during about the middle of the first millennium B.C., they were classified schematically according to the four cardinal points of the compass.
1 Italian: from the imperial Roman personal name Barbarus (for the etymology see Barbara 1). 2  Italian: from Barbaro, a byname or nickname also originally denoting a person of non-Greek or Roman origin, which in the Middle Ages came to mean a non-Christian, specifically an Arab or Saracen. 3  Compare Barbary. 1 Italian: from Barbaro, a byname or nickname also originally denoting a person of non-Greek or Roman origin, which in the Middle Ages came to mean a non-Christian, specifically an Arab or Saracen. 2  Compare Barbary. 3  Italian: from barbarus, from Castilian bravo ‘fierce’, ‘brave’