Diagnosing autism spectrum disorder (ASD) can be difficult, since there is no medical test, like a blood test, to diagnose the disorders. Doctors look at the child’s behavior and development to make a diagnosis. ASD can sometimes be detected at 18 months or younger. 
Symptoms during childhood. Symptoms of autism are usually noticed first by parents and other caregivers sometime during the child's first 3 years. Although autism is present at birth (congenital), signs of the disorder can be difficult to identify or diagnose during infancy. 
A Parent's Guide to the First Signs and Next Steps and president and founder of First Signs, an organization dedicated to educating parents and professionals about the early warning signs of autism and other developmental disorders. As a parent of a child with autism, Wiseman believes in the power of early intervention. If your baby is showing any of these signs, parents should ask their physician for an immediate evaluation: 1  No big smiles or other warm, joyful expressions by six months or thereafter. 2  No back-and-forth sharing of sounds, smiles, or other facial expressions by nine months or thereafter. 3  No babbling by 12 months.
One of the most important things you can do as a parent or caregiver is to learn the early signs of autism and become familiar with the typical developmental milestones that your child should be reaching. The following red flags may indicate your child is at risk for an autism spectrum disorder. Autism Speaks' multi-year Ad Council public service advertising campaign stresses the importance of recognizing the early signs of autism and seeking early intervention services. Recent research confirms that appropriate screening can determine whether a child is at risk for autism as young as one year.
Currently, the American Academy of Pediatrics recommends screening all toddlers for autism at ages 18 and 24 months. Still, a growing number of researchers believe that screening can and should start even earlier for infants known to be at high risk for autism. The brown-eyed boy in the video is 13 months old. He wears overalls and a blue-striped shirt and sits on his mother’s lap. On the table in front of them is a green washcloth.
It can be challenging to diagnose autism early on, but there are certain symptoms to look out for. In particular, there are symptoms you should look for at home, and diagnostic tools that your doctor can use to determine whether or not your child has autism. Scroll down to Step 1 for more information. Autism is a developmental disorder with a wide range of symptoms. Many of these symptoms are shown through communication and language difficulties.
Contact your doctor if you have recognized some symptoms of autism. If you have noticed signs like those listed in the previous method, make an appointment with a doctor who specifically deals with developmental issues in children. Autism is a developmental disorder with a wide range of symptoms. Many of these symptoms are shown through communication and language difficulties.
Study: Signs of autism may show up as early as first month. The first signs of autism may be visible as early as the first month of a child's life, according to a study published Wednesday in the scientific journal Nature. These are the earliest signs of autism ever observed, says lead study author Warren Jones. 02:11 PM ET. The first signs of autism may be visible as early as the first month of a child's life, according to a study published Wednesday in the scientific journal Nature.
June 2, 2006 -- Autism in children can be detected as early as age 14 months, a new study shows. Autism is rarely diagnosed before a child is 3 years old. Cutting that time in half means less precious time lost in getting autistic children the treatment they urgently need -- when it's likely to do the most good. 