Snowy Mountains food and wine. Snow thrills can help you work up quite an appetite and grand mountain vistas create the perfect backdrop for a fireside meal. Visit local wineries in Tumbarumba, one of the State's most exciting new wine regions, and sip on high quality chardonnay and pinot noir. Winter in the Snowy Mountains. The colder months are a great time to create fun-filled memories with family and friends in the Snowy Mountains, where you'll find breath-taking alpine scenery and action-packed snow resorts.
The Snowy Mountains is an area introduced in Monster Hunter 2. It is situated in and around an expansive mountain range located near Pokke Village. It features temperate lowlands, a clear freshwater lake, frozen caves, and snowbound peaks. 
Snowy Mountains. The Snowy Mountains [1] , nicknamed the Snowies, are a region of New South Wales in Australia in the south east of the state. The highest region in Australia and one of the cooler areas of New South Wales, they are notable for their ski-fields and are the centre of snow sports in New South Wale
1 Cooma Area The largest town in the Snowy Mountains is also the gateway to the State's alpine area. 2  Jindabyne Area An adventure base camp for the Snowy Mountains, famous for its trout fishing and water sports. 3  Kosciuszko National Park Alpine snow resorts and Mount Kosciuszko, Australia's highest peak, can be found here. Winter in the Snowy Mountains. The colder months are a great time to create fun-filled memories with family and friends in the Snowy Mountains, where you'll find breath-taking alpine scenery and action-packed snow resorts.
The Snowy Mountains scheme or Snowy Scheme is a hydroelectricity and irrigation complex in south-east Australia. The Scheme consists of sixteen major dams; seven power stations; a pumping station; and 225 kilometres (140 mi) of tunnels, pipelines and aqueducts that were constructed between 1949 and 1974. The water falls 800 metres (2,600 ft) and travels through large hydro-electric power stations which generate peak-load power for the Australian Capital Territory, New South Wales and Victoria. The Snowy Mountains Scheme was notable for its immigrant, mostly European, work force.
The Snowy Mountains, known informally as  The Snowies , is an IBRA subregion and the highest mountain range on the island country/continent of Australia. It contains the Australian mainland's highest mountain, Mount Kosciuszko, which reaches to a height of 2,228 m (7,310 ft) above sea level. The range also contains the five highest peaks on the Australian mainland (including Mount Kosciuszko), all of which are above 2,100 m (6,890 ft). The range is perhaps best known for the Snowy Mountains Scheme, a project to dam the Snowy River, providing both water for irrigation and hydroelectricity. The project began in 1949 employing 100,000 men, two-thirds of whom came from thirty other countries during the post-World War II years.
Highlights. The Snowy Mountains region is a true alpine wilderness, home to Mt Kosciuszko, the continent’s five highest peaks and its only glacial lakes. Australia’s ultimate snow sports playground offers plenty of action on and off the snowfields. Winter in the Snowy Mountains. The colder months are a great time to create fun-filled memories with family and friends in the Snowy Mountains, where you'll find breath-taking alpine scenery and action-packed snow resorts.
An Amazing Snowy Mountains Adventure. Now that the snow season is over for another year, here's a new adventure in the Snowy Mountains for your next visit. Kayaking the Snowy River is incredible. Check out this video shot by local adventurers as part of the Tales to Tell series. From the exhilaration of a snow experience, to the culture and exquisite tastes of our communities. From unique landscapes, spectacular lakes and high-country beauty, to the bounty of activities and events for all ages.
It's Australia's ultimate, year-round, nature and adventure playground. From the exhilaration of a snow experience, to the culture and exquisite tastes of our communities. From unique landscapes, spectacular lakes and high-country beauty, to the bounty of activities and events for all ages.