Similar to a battery, a fuel cell with a supply of hydrogen and oxygen can be used to power devices that use electricity. While both batteries and fuel cells convert chemical energy into electrical energy, batteries store this chemical energy inside the battery itself.
“You cannot catch and store electricity, but you can store electrical energy in the chemicals inside a battery.”. There are three main components of a battery: two terminals made of different chemicals (typically metals), the anode and the cathode; and the electrolyte, which separates these terminals.
If the battery is disposable, it will produce electricity until it runs out of reactants (same chemical potential on both electrodes). These batteries only work in one direction, transforming chemical energy to electrical energy. But in other types of batteries, the reaction can be reversed.
Batteries convert Chemical Energy into Electrical Energy. A battery has two ends -- a positive terminal (cathode) and a negative terminal (anode). If you connect the two terminals with wire, a circuit is formed. Electrons will flow through the wire and a current of electricity is produced.
A dry cell battery converts chemical energy into electricity. The chemical reaction produces electrons, which then collect at the negative terminal of the battery. When there … is a connection between the positive and negative terminal, the electrons flow to the positive terminal.
A CD player uses the electrical energy in a battery to produce sound energy. This can be represented by an energy flow diagram. A small amount of heat energy may also be produced, but this is usually unwanted, wasted energy. An appliance is more efficient if less energy is changed into the unwanted forms of energy.
“A battery is a device that is able to store electrical energy in the form of chemical energy, and convert that energy into electricity,” says Antoine Allanore, a postdoctoral associate at MIT’s Department of Materials Science and Engineering ..
Energy cannot be created or destroyed, but it can be saved in various forms. One way to store it is in the form of chemical energy in a battery. When connected in a circuit, a battery can produce electricity. If you look at a battery, it will have two ends &emdash; a positive terminal and a negative terminal.