Step 1: Get an Undergraduate Degree. Dental hygienists usually hold an associate's degree, such as an Associate of Applied Science, in dental hygiene. Two-year degree programs are available at community colleges, vocational institutes, or dental schools. While associate's degrees are enough for most dental hygienist positions, some hygienists earn higher degrees as a way to advance their careers. Bachelor's and master's degrees in dental hygiene may qualify hygienists for careers beyond the dental office, such as in teaching and research.
1 Apply to a 2-year certificate or associate's program with a technical school. 2  Make sure that the program is accredited and helps you to pass the National Board Dental Hygiene Examination. 3  Apply to an applied sciences associate's degree program in dental hygiene. 4  These programs are usually run by community colleges. 1 Apply to a 4-year university. 2  Some schools provide 4-year bachelor's degrees in dental hygiene. 3  You will be required to take the general liberal arts prerequisites, as well as science and clinical dental studies.
Dental hygienists should consider completing an associate or bachelor’s degree program in dental hygiene or a closely related field from an accredited school. It’s important to make sure your school and its dental hygiene program is accredited by The Commission on Dental Accreditation. If you want to learn more about how to become a dental hygienist, it pays to start looking at leading dental hygiene schools. There are many programs all over the country and there’s sure to be one near you. Our search tool below will help make the search a little easier for you.
1 Apply to an applied sciences associate's degree program in dental hygiene. 2  These programs are usually run by community colleges. 3  They often take 2 years and include comprehensive classroom and clinical study. 4  This is the most common path to becoming a dental hygienist. 1 Apply to a 4-year university. 2  Some schools provide 4-year bachelor's degrees in dental hygiene. 3  You will be required to take the general liberal arts prerequisites, as well as science and clinical dental studies.
Wallace State Community College offers an accredited dental hygiene program that prepares you to sit for the state licensing exam. The associate degree program is 75-76 credit hours total and takes five semesters to complete. You can expect to take courses in dental radiology, periodontology and pharmacology. If you have previous experience in dentistry, you may qualify for a 1-year dental hygiene training program that's also offered in Alabama. Read on for more information about these programs that can help you become a licensed dental hygienist
What You Need to Know. A dental hygiene degree program is only offered at one school in Alabama. The 2-year, public college offers an associate's degree that should take five semesters to complete, if you attend full time. If you have previous experience in dentistry, you may qualify for a 1-year dental hygiene training program that's also offered in Alabama. Read on for more information about these programs that can help you become a licensed dental hygienist
Education and Qualifications. To become a dental hygienist, you'll need either a 2- or 4-year degree in dental hygiene. Most programs are two years long and lead to an associate's degree. They are offered through community colleges and technical colleges. Your coursework will include classes such as the following: 1  Anatomy and Physiology. 
Education. Dental hygienists typically need an associate’s degree in dental hygiene. Bachelor's degrees in dental hygiene are also available, but are less common. A bachelor's or master's degree is usually required for research, teaching, or clinical practice in public or school health programs. 
Apply for a dental hygiene degree program. There are several courses you can take, depending upon your preference and approved entrance. 1  Apply to a 2-year certificate or associate's program with a technical school. 1 Apply to a 4-year university. 2  Some schools provide 4-year bachelor's degrees in dental hygiene. 3  You will be required to take the general liberal arts prerequisites, as well as science and clinical dental studies.