Print | Email article to a friend | Last updated: December 12, 2014. Growth hormone-releasing hormone stimulates the secretion of growth hormone, an important regulator of growth, metabolism and body structure. Alternative names for growth hormone-releasing hormone Growth hormone-releasing factor; GRF; GHRF; GHRH. Insulin-like growth factor 1 is a hormone produced in the liver and other organs in response to growth hormone, which in turn acts in many tissues to cause metabolic and growth actions. In addition to its effect on growth hormone secretion, growth hormone-releasing hormone also affects sleep, food intake and memory.
Growth hormone (GH or HGH), also known as somatotropin or somatropin, is a peptide hormone that stimulates growth, cell reproduction and regeneration in humans and other animals. It is a type of mitogen which is specific only to certain kinds of cells. 
If the hypothalamus produces too little growth hormone-releasing hormone, the production and release of growth hormone from the pituitary gland is impaired, leading to a lack of growth hormone (adult growth hormone deficiency). Insulin-like growth factor 1 is a hormone produced in the liver and other organs in response to growth hormone, which in turn acts in many tissues to cause metabolic and growth actions. In addition to its effect on growth hormone secretion, growth hormone-releasing hormone also affects sleep, food intake and memory.
Because growth hormone is released in pulses, a single measurement of the blood level is not normally clinically useful. Therefore, testing for the suppression or stimulation of growth hormone release from the pituitary is usually done. 1  GH stimulation tests help to diagnose GH deficiency and hypopituitarism. 2  For a stimulation test, a sample of blood is drawn after 10-12 hours of fasting
Somatostatin then prevents the release of growth hormone from the pituitary gland and growth hormone-releasing hormone production by the hypothalamus, therefore acting as a powerful suppressor of growth hormone secretion. Insulin-like growth factor 1 is a hormone produced in the liver and other organs in response to growth hormone, which in turn acts in many tissues to cause metabolic and growth actions. In addition to its effect on growth hormone secretion, growth hormone-releasing hormone also affects sleep, food intake and memory.
Growth hormone is a peptide hormone that stimulates growth, development and regeneration. This peptide hormone is made up of 191 amino acids that form a long, single-chain polypeptide. Growth hormone is synthesized in the somatotropic cells, which are found in the anterior pituitary gland. These cells are also responsible for storing and releasing the hormone.
Growth hormone is released into the bloodstream from the anterior pituitary gland. The pituitary gland also produces other hormones which have different functions to growth hormone. 
Regulation of release and secretion. The release of growth hormone is controlled by growth hormone-releasing hormone (somatocrinin) and growth hormone-inhibiting hormone (somatostatin), both of which are released by the neurosecretory nuclei of the hypothalamus. This peptide hormone is made up of 191 amino acids that form a long, single-chain polypeptide. Growth hormone is synthesized in the somatotropic cells, which are found in the anterior pituitary gland. These cells are also responsible for storing and releasing the hormone.
Growth hormone-releasing hormone is a hormone produced in the hypothalamus. The principal function of growth hormone-releasing hormone is to stimulate the pituitary gland to produce and release growth hormone into the bloodstream. Insulin-like growth factor 1 is a hormone produced in the liver and other organs in response to growth hormone, which in turn acts in many tissues to cause metabolic and growth actions. In addition to its effect on growth hormone secretion, growth hormone-releasing hormone also affects sleep, food intake and memory.
Growth-hormone-releasing hormone (GHRH), also known as growth-hormone-releasing factor (GRF, GHRF), as well as somatorelin (INN), somatoliberin, and somatocrinin, is a releasing hormone of growth hormone (GH). It is a 44 - amino acid peptide hormone produced in the arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus. GHRH first appears in the human hypothalamus between 18 and 29 weeks of gestation, which corresponds to the start of production of growth hormone and other somatotropes in fetuses. Main article: Growth hormone-releasing hormone receptor. The GHRHR is a member of the secretin family of G protein-coupled receptors, and is located on chromosome 7. This protein is transmembranous with seven folds, and its molecular weight is approximately 44 kD.