Getting Started. Vi is a terminal application, so you’ll have to start it from a terminal window. Use the vi /path/to/file command to open an existing file with Vi. The vi /path/to/file command also works if the file doesn’t exist yet; Vi will create a new file and write it to the specified location when you save. Remember to use sudo if you want to edit a system file. So, for example, you’d type sudo vi /etc/fstab if you wanted to edit your fstab file. You can save and quit vi from command mode. First, ensure you’re in command mode by pressing the escape key (pressing the escape key again does nothing if you’re already in command mode.). Type :wq and press enter to write the file to disk and quit vi.
vi is a text editor, not a what you see is what you get word processor. vi lets you add, change, and delete text, but does not provide such formatting capabilities as centering lines or indenting paragraphs. This help note explains the basics of vi: 1  opening and closing a file. 2  moving around in a file. 3  elementary editing. In order to begin entering text in this empty file, you must change from command mode to insert mode. To do this, type. Nothing appears to change, but you are now in insert mode and can begin typing text. In general, vi's commands do not display on the screen and do not require the Return key to be pressed.
Vi is a modal text editor, and it opens in command mode. Trying to type at this screen will result in unexpected behavior. While in command mode, you can move the cursor around with the arrow keys. Press the x key to delete the character under the cursor. You can save and quit vi from command mode. First, ensure you’re in command mode by pressing the escape key (pressing the escape key again does nothing if you’re already in command mode.). Type :wq and press enter to write the file to disk and quit vi.
The Linux vi editor is a great tool to edit files in the Linux command line terminal. It has been a popular text editor to edit server configuration files and programs for so long. Almost all Linux distributions include vi editor in default installation. Now, let's learn how to edit file with vi editor. The syntax used to edit file using vi editor is the same as create a new file. To edit a file in Linux system, you can change directory or just provide the path to the directory where the file resides. See the vi format below: vi /path/to/filename. During the create new file with vi editor practice, we didn't use much commands. You learn how to insert text, delete text and save file. However, when editing a file or program in Linux, you are going need more than that. Of course, the basic file editing is just insert text, delete text and save the changes, but there are many useful vi commands that can make your job a lot easier
Using vi. Before I get into how to use vi, it's important to understand that there are two basic modes for vi: insert mode and command mode. Insert mode is the mode where you type and things appear on the screen. Command mode is the mode where you type and things happen, instead of text appearing. They will not show up in the file when you save it. To edit a specific document or to give a blank document a name, you can also type vi filename, where filename is an existing file or the name you want the new file to have.
Starting vi. You may use vi to open an already existing file by typing. where filename is the name of the existing file. If the file is not in your current directory, you must use the full pathname. Or you may create a new file by typing. where newname is the name you wish to give the new file. In order to begin entering text in this empty file, you must change from command mode to insert mode. To do this, type. Nothing appears to change, but you are now in insert mode and can begin typing text. In general, vi's commands do not display on the screen and do not require the Return key to be pressed.
Starting vi. To start using vi, at the Unix prompt type vi followed by a file name. If you wish to edit an existing file, type in its name; if you are creating a new file, type in the name you wish to give to the new file. %vi filename Then hit Return. vi has two modes: the command mode and the insert mode. It is essential that you know which mode you are in at any given point in time. When you are in command mode, letters of the keyboard will be interpreted as commands. When you are in insert mode the same letters of the keyboard will type or edit text. vi always starts out in command mode. When you wish to move between the two modes, keep these things in mind. You can type i to enter the insert mode. If you wish to leave insert mode and return to the command mode, hit the ESC key