Simmer for 15–20 minutes (6–10 for soaked rice). Long grain rice usually takes about 20 minutes to cook without previous soaking, but you can check earlier if you're worried about overcooking. When ready, the rice has lost its crunch but remains firm. If the grains are falling apart into mush, the rice is overcooked. 
Genmai is the Japanese word for brown rice, the unpolished whole grain rice that is the result of removing only the husk and leaving the embryo and bran intact. Brown rice becomes white rice when the outer bran layer is stripped off in the milling or whitening process. (If cooking in a rice cooker without a Brown Rice setting, please limit the amount of brown rice to 2/3 of the rice cooker's capacity to prevent it from overflowing.) To cook long grain rice, rinse the rice once, and use 1-1/4 times the amount of water to rice, and cook using the mixed rice setting.
When I buy brown rice, there are usually a few grains of greenish rice in there as well. Nothing to worry about as far as I am concerned. Of course, if it's a green pulsating mess, then as someone has said, it could well be moldy. However, if it's just a few grains, this is completely natural. As you can see in the picture of brown rice (referenced below), you'll notice at the bottom of the picture there are some green grains of rice. My understanding is that they didn't have a chance to fully ripen before being harvested.
Brown, red and black rice all are more flavorful and nutritious than white rice. In fact, refined white rice has less protein and only half the nutrients of brown rice. The outer layer of natural brown bran is stripped off to create white rice, removing most of the fiber, vitamins, minerals and amino acids. “Enriched” white rice has some synthetic nutrients added to it. Bring the rice to a boil, reduce heat to the lowest possible setting, cover tightly and simmer until water is absorbed. Try not to peek until checking to see if it’s done and never stir while cooking. Stirring destroys the structure of the steam vents that develop as rice cooks and makes rice gummy and sticky.
Instead of preparing whole grain brown rice with the traditional 45 minute cooking method, try our 30 Minute Cooking Method ... to prepare up to 2 cups of brown rice; bring 10 cups of water to a boil. Stir in rice. Return to a boil. 
Nutritionally, whole grain rice is rich in fiber and mostly a source of complex carbohydrates (80 percent) with a little protein, phosphorus and potassium. There are hundreds of different varieties of rice — white, brown, black and red. Bring the rice to a boil, reduce heat to the lowest possible setting, cover tightly and simmer until water is absorbed. Try not to peek until checking to see if it’s done and never stir while cooking. Stirring destroys the structure of the steam vents that develop as rice cooks and makes rice gummy and sticky.
Remember brown rice needs more water than white rice to cook its firm grain. As a rule of thumb, 1 cup of white rice needs roughly 1 ⅓ – 2 cups water (check the packet to be sure, different types and brands can vary) and 1 cup of brown rice uses 2 – 3 ½ cups of water (I never measure my white rice though). To soak your rice, pop one cup of rice into 1 ½ cups water with 2 tablespoons of some type of acid (I use lemon juice as I always have a lemon in my kitchen, but you can also use yoghurt, kefir or vinegar). Soak the rice overnight, then drain and cook as you normally would.
And, just like long grain white rice, our brown rice is grown in the U.S.A., and is Kosher approved. Mahatma Brown rice is the rice grain with only the outer hull removed. The fiber and nutrient-dense bran layers cover the white inner part of the grain. These bran layers have a light brown color, and contribute a subtle nut-like taste and somewhat chewy texture.
One mineral not added back into white rice is magnesium; one cup (195 g) of cooked long grain brown rice contains 84 mg of magnesium while one cup of white rice contains 19 mg. When the bran layer is removed to make white rice, the oil in the bran is also removed. Brown rice (or hulled or  unmilled  rice) is whole grain rice. It has a mild, nutty flavor, and is chewier and more nutritious than white rice, but goes rancid more quickly because the bran and germ—which are removed to make white rice—contain fats that can spoil. Any rice, including long-grain, short-grain, or glutinous rice, may be eaten as brown rice