Magma rises into and through the other plate, solidifying into new crust. Magma formed from melting plates solidifies into granite, a light colored, low-density rock that makes up the continents. Thus at convergent boundaries, continental crust, made of granite, is created, and oceanic crust is destroyed. Two plates sliding past each other forms a transform plate boundary. Natural or human-made structures that cross a transform boundary are offset—split into pieces and carried in opposite directions. 
As with oceanic-continental convergence, when two oceanic plates converge, one is usually subducted under the other, and in the process a trench is formed. The Marianas Trench (paralleling the Mariana Islands), for example, marks where the fast-moving Pacific Plate converges against the slower moving Philippine Plate. 
Convergent boundaries form when two crustal plates are colliding. The plates form a subduction zone with one plate descending beneath the other plate. One of the converging plates must be an oceanic plate to form a subduction zone. When two continental plates collide mountain ranges like the Himalayas form.
Oceanic-Oceanic Plate Convergence. This is similar to oceanic-continental convergence in that one of the plates is subducted under the other during the collision. At the subduction zone a very deep trench is formed in the ocean floor. Oceanic and oceanic plate convergence result in the formation of volcano chains. The crust that is pulled under or subducted melts to form magma. This magma rises to the top of the overriding oceanic plates and erupts on the ocean floor. When an oceanic plate collides with a continental plate the crust forming the oceanic plate gets bent and pulled under the continental crust. This is because the rocks that form the oceanic crust are denser and thinner than the rocks that form
oceanic-continental convergence. When an Oceanic and a Continental Plate converge the Oceanic Plate sinks underneath the Continental Plate. The area were the plate sinks into the Mantle is called a Subduction zone. Subduction Zones along an Oceanic-Continental boundary create a deep-sea trench. convergent Boundary. In Plate Tectonics, a Convergent Boundary, also known as a destructive plate boundary because of Subduction. A Convergent Boundary is an actively deforming region where two or more tectonic plates or fragments of the Lithosphere move toward one another and collide.
In plate tectonics, a convergent boundary, also known as a destructive plate boundary (because of subduction), is an actively deforming region where two (or more) tectonic plates or fragments of the lithosphere move toward one another and collide. When one plate is composed of oceanic lithosphere and the other is composed of continental lithosphere, the denser oceanic plate is subducted, often forming an orogenic belt and associated mountain range. This type of convergent boundary is similar to the Andes or the Cascade Range in North America.
As a result of pressure, friction, and plate material melting in the mantle, earthquakes and volcanoes are common near convergent boundaries. When two plates move towards one another, they form either a subduction zone or a continental collision. This depends on the nature of the plates involved. When one plate is composed of oceanic lithosphere and the other is composed of continental lithosphere, the denser oceanic plate is subducted, often forming an orogenic belt and associated mountain range. This type of convergent boundary is similar to the Andes or the Cascade Range in North America.
When a convergent boundary occurs between two oceanic plates one of those plates will subduct beneath the other. Normally the older plate will subduct because of its higher density. The subducting plate is heated as it is forced deeper into the mantle and at a depth of about 100 miles (150 km) the plate begins to melt. The Cascade Mountain Range is a line of volcanoes above the melting oceanic plate. The Andes Mountain Range of western South America is another example of a convergent boundary between an oceanic and continental plate.
A subduction zone is formed at a convergent plate boundary when one or both of the tectonic plates is composed of oceanic crust. The denser plate, made of oceanic crust, is subducted underneath the less dense plate, which can be either continental or oceanic crust. When one plate is composed of oceanic lithosphere and the other is composed of continental lithosphere, the denser oceanic plate is subducted, often forming an orogenic belt and associated mountain range. This type of convergent boundary is similar to the Andes or the Cascade Range in North America.