ATP synthase (EC 3.6.3.14) is an important enzyme that provides energy for the cell to use through the synthesis of adenosine triphosphate (ATP). ATP is the most commonly used energy currency of cells from most organisms. It is formed from adenosine diphosphate (ADP) and inorganic phosphate (P i), and needs energy. According to the current model of ATP synthesis (known as the alternating catalytic model), the proton-motive force across the inner mitochondrial membrane, generated by the electron transport chain, drives the passage of protons through the membrane via the F O region of ATP synthase.
These electrons move from molecule to molecule in the electron transport chain. Each movement is a reduction-oxidation reaction in which the molecules move to a lower energy state. The energy released is used to move protons (hydrogen ions) across the membrane. The movement of protons increases potential energy in the form of an electrochemical gradient. Thus the chemical bond energy has been converted into potential energy. The enzyme ATP synthase uses the potential energy to form ATP
This energy is then transferred to the electron transport chain in the form of electrons. These electrons move from molecule to molecule in the electron transport chain. Each movement is a reduction-oxidation reaction in which the molecules move to a lower energy state. The energy released is used to move protons (hydrogen ions) across the membrane. The movement of protons increases potential energy in the form of an electrochemical gradient. Thus the chemical bond energy has been converted into potential energy. The enzyme ATP synthase uses the potential energy to form ATP.
The movement of protons through ATP synthase occurs from the. matrix to the intermembrane space. matrix to the cytoplasm. intermembrane space to the matrix. intermembrane space to the cytoplasm. cytoplasm to the intermembrane space. 4. The energy released is used to move protons (hydrogen ions) across the membrane. The movement of protons increases potential energy in the form of an electrochemical gradient. Thus the chemical bond energy has been converted into potential energy.
This process is related to osmosis, the diffusion of water across a membrane, which is why it is called chemiosmosis. ATP synthase is the enzyme that makes ATP by chemiosmosis. It allows protons to pass through the membrane and uses the kinetic energy to phosphorylate ADP, making ATP. ATP synthase then uses the energy stored in this gradient to make ATP. This process is called oxidative phosphorylation because oxygen is the final electron acceptor and the energy released by reducing oxygen to water is used to phosphorylate ADP and generate ATP.
An electron transport chain (ETC) is a series of compounds that transfer electrons from electron donors to electron acceptors via redox reactions, and couples this electron transfer with the transfer of protons (H + ions) across a membrane. In the mitochondrial electron transport chain electrons move from an electron donor (NADH or QH 2) to a terminal electron acceptor (O 2) via a series of redox reactions. These reactions are coupled to the creation of a proton gradient across the mitochondrial inner membrane.
3. The movement of protons through ATP synthase occurs from the. matrix to the intermembrane space. matrix to the cytoplasm. intermembrane space to the matrix. intermembrane space to the cytoplasm. cytoplasm to the intermembrane space. 4. 
The protons move back across the inner membrane through the enzyme ATP synthase. The flow of protons back into the matrix of the mitochondrion via ATP synthase provides enough energy for ADP to combine with inorganic phosphate to form ATP. ATP synthase then uses the energy stored in this gradient to make ATP. This process is called oxidative phosphorylation because oxygen is the final electron acceptor and the energy released by reducing oxygen to water is used to phosphorylate ADP and generate ATP.
As their concentration increases there (which is the same as saying that the pH decreases), a strong diffusion gradient is set up. The only exit for these protons is through the ATP synthase complex. As in chloroplasts, the energy released as these protons flow down their gradient is harnessed to the synthesis of ATP. The process is called chemiosmosis and is an example of facilitated diffusion. 1 The gradient of protons formed across the inner membrane by this process of active transport forms a miniature battery. 2  The protons can flow back down this gradient only by reentering the matrix through ATP synthase, another complex (complex V) of 16 integral membrane proteins in the inner membrane.
In most cases the proton motive force is generated by an electron transport chain which acts as a proton pump, using the energy of electrons from an electron carrier (Gibbs free energy of redox reactions) to pump protons (hydrogen ions) out across the membrane, separating the charge across the membrane. ATP synthase then uses the energy stored in this gradient to make ATP. This process is called oxidative phosphorylation because oxygen is the final electron acceptor and the energy released by reducing oxygen to water is used to phosphorylate ADP and generate ATP.