noun, re·nais·sance often attributive \ˌre-nə-ˈsaen(ˈsän)t, -s(ˈzaen)ˈzän, -t, -s, ˈsaeⁿs-ˈsäⁿs-ˈzaeⁿs, ˈzäⁿs ˈre nə-ˌ-chiefly(british)ri\. ˈnā. sən T: s tweet the Renaissance the period of european history between the 14th and 17th centuries when there was a new interest in science and in ancient art And. literature especially in italy
The Renaissance is a period of time in Europe between the 14th and 17th centuries, which was marked by the rejection of ancient knowledge and the pursuit of educational reform … . It was also famous for its rapid advancement of art and culture.   The word renaissance can also mean any rapid improvement in culture.
Renaissance. (c. 1300–1545) Meaning “rebirth,” the term describes the revival of classical learning and art. Centered at first in Florence, it marked the end of the Middle Ages and was the outstanding creative period in western art.
The Renaissance of the 14th to 16th centuries was literally a ‘rebirth’ of culture after what was regarded as the uncivilized period of the Middle Ages. It began in Florence, where there was a revival of interest in classical antiquity, and spread to Venice, Rome, and then throughout Europe.
Tweet. the Renaissance: the period of European history between the 14th and 17th centuries when there was a new interest in science and in ancient art and literature especially in Italy. : a situation or period of time when there is a new interest in something that has not been popular in a long time.
The Renaissance is generally regarded as beginning in Florence, where there was a revival of interest in classical antiquity. Important early figures are the writers Petrarch, Dante, and Boccaccio and the painter Giotto.
Answer: Literally, renaissance means a rebirth, or revival. It is a time period when interest in art, literature, education, and other similar subjects, along with interest in Ancient Greece and Rome, was reborn.
Definition of RENAISSANCE for Kids. 1. cap: the period of European history between the 14th and 17th centuries marked by a fresh interest in ancient art and literature and by the beginnings of modern science. 2.