The European Renaissance began in Northern Italy in the 14th century. The Tuscan city of Florence is considered the birthplace of the Renaissance. Gradually, the movement spread from Italy to other parts of Europe. The period of European history referred to as the Renaissance was a time of great social and cultural change in Europe. Generally speaking, the Renaissance spanned from the 14th to the 16th centuries, spreading across Europe from its birthplace in Italy.
The Renaissance (UK /rɨˈneɪsəns/ , US /ˈrɛnɨsɑːns/) is a period in Europe, from the 14th to the 17th century, considered the bridge between the Middle Ages and modern history. The Renaissance began in times of religious turmoil. The late Middle Ages saw a period of political intrigue surrounding the Papacy, culminating in the Western Schism, in which three men simultaneously claimed to be true Bishop of Rome.
(Answer #8). The Renaissance or rebirth started in Italy shortly after the end of the dark ages in the early 1300's. It began in different times in different places because of several wars and religious conflicts. It is roughly known as the time between the 1300s to the mid to late 1500s as it transforms into the Reformation. (Answer #51). The Renaissance began in Florence and spread to the rest of Europe. It took place in the Late Middle Ages, and spanned the 14th to the 17th century.
Summary. Florence is often named as the birthplace of the Renaissance. The early writers and artists of the period sprung from this city in the northern hills of Italy. As a center for the European wool trade, the political power of the city rested primarily in the hands of the wealthy merchants who dominated the industry. 
The word Renaissance, literally meaning Rebirth in French, first appears in English in the 1830s. The word occurs in Jules Michelet 's 1855 work, Histoire de France. The Renaissance began in times of religious turmoil. The late Middle Ages saw a period of political intrigue surrounding the Papacy, culminating in the Western Schism, in which three men simultaneously claimed to be true Bishop of Rome.
The Renaissance is generally considered to have started in Florence, Italy around the years 1350 to 1400. The start of the Renaissance also was the end of the Middle Ages. Humanism. One of the big changes in the Renaissance was in the basic way people thought about things. In the Middle Ages people thought that life was supposed to be hard.
The consensus in the profession at this point, early in the 21st century, is that the Renaissance has some validity as a period of art, and probably some validity in literary history, but that as a general term, it has too many problems to be useful. The Renaissance is a peculiar period in history—not in that the time itself was odd, but in that how historians came to define it as a distinct era is unusual. It began as an era defined by an Italian writer in the 16th century, who applied it only to Italian painters and sculptors.
With respect to Italian Renaissance painting, this can be broken down into four distinct eras: The Proto Renaissance era, in which the seeds were sown for future great works; the Early Renaissance period; the High Renaissance period, and finally, Mannerism. The period of the High Renaissance is the most enduring. John Bensalhia | Monday, October 17, 2011 - 14:22. John Bensalhia recalls the era of the High Renaissance and looks at the work and influence of some of the great artists of that period... The Renaissance: A period of cultural rebirth.
It represents a cultural rebirth from the 14th through the middle of the 17th centuries. Early Renaissance, mostly in Italy, bridges the art period during the fifteenth century, between the Middle Ages and the High Renaissance in Italy. It is generally known that Renaissance matured in Northern Europe later, in the 16th century. The Renaissance began in times of religious turmoil. The late Middle Ages saw a period of political intrigue surrounding the Papacy, culminating in the Western Schism, in which three men simultaneously claimed to be true Bishop of Rome.