Symptoms of pneumonia not caused by bacteria may come on gradually and are often not as bad or as obvious as symptoms of bacterial pneumonia. Many people don't know that they have nonbacterial pneumonia, because they don't feel sick. But symptoms may include: 1  Fever.
The signs and symptoms of pneumonia vary from mild to severe, depending on factors such as the type of germ causing the infection, and your age and overall health. Mild signs and symptoms often are similar to those of a cold or flu, but they last longer.
Symptoms also can vary, depending on whether your pneumonia is bacterial or viral. 1  In bacterial pneumonia, your temperature may rise as high as 105 degrees F. 2  The initial symptoms of viral pneumonia are the same as influenza symptoms: fever, a dry cough, headache, muscle pain, and weakness.
1 The initial symptoms of viral pneumonia are the same as influenza symptoms: fever, a dry cough, headache, muscle pain, and weakness. 2  Within 12 to 36 hours, there is increasing breathlessness; the cough becomes worse and produces a small amount of mucus.
Pneumonia is a bacterial or viral infection of the lungs. Symptoms can include fever, chills, shortness of breath, coughing that produces phlegm, and chest pain. Pneumonia can usually be treated successfully at home with antibiotics but hospitalisation may be required in some cases.
Symptoms. The signs and symptoms of pneumonia vary from mild to severe, depending on factors such as the type of germ causing the infection, and your age and overall health. Mild signs and symptoms often are similar to those of a cold or flu, but they last longer. Signs and symptoms of pneumonia may include:
Bacterial pneumonia. Symptoms of pneumonia caused by bacteria in otherwise healthy people younger than 65 usually come on suddenly. They often start during or after an upper respiratory infection, such as the flu or a cold. Symptoms may include: 1  Cough, often producing mucus, also called sputum, from the lungs.
Pneumonia and its symptoms can vary from mild to severe. Many treatments for pneumonia are available. Treatment depends on the cause of your pneumonia, how severe your symptoms are, and your age and overall health. Most healthy people recover from pneumonia in one to three weeks, but pneumonia can be life-threatening.
Pneumonia is not a cold or the flu. Symptoms like fatigue, chest pain, and difficulty breathing can appear without warning, and can be severe. Certain symptoms, like cough and fatigue, may last for weeks, or longer.
Pneumonia and its symptoms can vary from mild to severe. Many factors affect how serious pneumonia is, such as the type of germ causing the infection and your age and overall health. Pneumonia tends to be more serious for: 1  Infants and young children.