Fast for eight to 12 hours before you have your first blood taken. The glucose tolerance test includes a blood draw before you drink a sugary liquid, and an hour after that as well. If you're doing a three-hour glucose tolerance test, then it's one blood draw every hour for three hours. Select your first meal after the fast carefully. After a fast, you need to gently re-introduce food into your digestive system.
The one hour glucose test you really dont need to fast because it is not a fasting test. After you drink the glucola you should not have anything to eat or drink, no gum,candy or mints. you also should not go smoke. Cigerattes have glucose in them too.
Fasting blood glucose test. Do not eat or drink anything except water for 8 to 10 hours before a fasting blood glucose test. These are used to diagnose diabetes, a condition caused by too much glucose (sugar) in the blood.
If the first level is above 125 mg/dL, the fasting blood glucose test will be done again (for example, the next day) to confirm a diagnosis of diabetes. A value between 100 and 125 mg/dL indicates pre-diabetes. Someone with a result in this range should be followed closely, with follow-up testing.
Ask the Diabetes Educator Archive 10/18/04 Q: When fasting for a fasting glucose test that is done first thing in the morning, how long should one fast for? Is it 8 hours or 12 to 14 hours? Does it matter? A: The textbook time to fast before a glucose test is 8 hours.
It depends on the type of blood test. For fasting sugar tests it  can have an affect. Fasting longer than 12 to 14 hours will cause  your body to start utilizing glycogen th … at is primarily stored in  your muscles and that can affect blood tests for fasting sugar.
1 You will be asked to come to the test fasting — not having had anything to eat or drink for the previous 8 hours. 2  A fasting blood sugar will be obtained. 3  You'll drink about 8 ounces (237 milliliters) of a glucose solution containing 3.5 ounces (100 grams) of sugar.