Posted on. (Answer #4). think that the irony of this story is that the child who was to be punished (Nicholas) had the best day, the most fun. Meanwhile, the children who were supposed to be having the fun did not. So Nicholas ends up being rewarded for his bad deeds. (Answer #1). I think that the irony of this story is that the child who was to be punished (Nicholas) had the best day, the most fun. Meanwhile, the children who were supposed to be having the fun did not.
lumber room-a storeroom in a house where odds and ends can be stored (especially furniture). storage room, storeroom, stowage-a room in which things are stored. 
предварительный просмотр: The analysis of the text “The Lumber-Room” by H. Munro. The text under analysis is written by an outstanding British novelist and a short – story writer Hector Munro. He was born in 1870 and died in 1916.Also he is better known for his pseudonym Saki. 
The Lumber Room-Analysis and interpretation. Extracts from this document... Introduction. The Lumber Room-Analysis and interpretation The Lumber Room is a short story written by Hector Hugh Munro, also known as Saki. Extracts from this document... Introduction. The Lumber Room-Analysis and interpretation The Lumber Room is a short story written by Hector Hugh Munro, also known as Saki. He is widely acclaimed for his short stories and is known for featuring children in his stories. Saki has a very interesting way of writing. The Lumber Room-Analysis and interpretation
Full Definition of LUMBER ROOM. : storeroom 1. See lumber room defined for English-language learners. ADVERTISEMENT. lumber room. noun. Tweet. : a room for storing old pieces of furniture and other things that are not being used.
It was probably the first time for twenty years that any one had smiled in that lumber-room. Presently the angry repetitions of Nicholas's name gave way to a shriek, and a cry for somebody to come quickly. 
The Lumber Room is a short story by Saki. Read it at eBooks@Adelaide or haytom.us or Wikisource. It is certainly one of the finest stories of its length in the English language. It begins thus: The children were to be driven, as a special treat, to the sands at Jagborough. Nicholas was not to be of the party; he was in disgrace. 
The Lumber Room. The text under analysis is entitled “The Lumber Room” and it is written by an outstanding British novelist and short story writer Hector Munro. Hector Hugh Munro, better known by the pen name Saki, was a British writer. 