Arctic Ozone Hole. CFCs Chlorofluorocarbon (CFC) is an organic compound that contains carbon, chlorine, and fluorine, produced as a volatile derivative of methane and ethane. A common subclass is the hydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs), which contain hydrogen, as well. Freon is DuPont's brand name for CFCs, HCFCs and related compounds. One of the elements that make up CFCs is chlorine. Very little chlorine exists naturally in the atmosphere. But it turns out that CFCs are an excellent way of introducing chlorine into the ozone layer. The ultraviolet radiation at this altitude breaks down CFCs, freeing the chlorine.
The ozone layer is essential for complex living organisms (like you and me) to exist. Without the ozone layer, all but very simple life forms would be destroyed by the action of ultraviolet light. Some chemicals, particularly CFCs, destroy ozone in the upper atmosphere. A CFC is a chlorofluorocarbon molecule. It is similar to an alkane with all the hydrogen atoms replaced with chlorine and fluorine atoms. In the presence of ultraviolet light a CFC molecule will decompose producing highly reactive chlorine free radicals. These chlorine free radicals will react with ozone molecules and turn them back into oxygen molecules. 
The ozone layer. The ozone layer is the part of the upper atmosphere where ozone is found in the highest concentrations. The ozone there absorbs ultraviolet radiation, preventing most of it from reaching the ground. This is important because ultraviolet radiation can lead to skin cancer. CFCs were once used widely in insulating foam and aerosol spray-cans. Once released, they gradually spread through the atmosphere, eventually reaching the ozone layer. Once there, they destroy ozone. CFCs have now been almost completely replaced by chemicals that do not cause this damage.
Chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) are a group of compounds which contain the elements chlorine, fluorine and carbon. At room temperatures, they are usually colourless gases or liquids which evaporate easily. They are generally unreactive and stable, non-toxic and non-flammable. 
Arctic Ozone Hole. The Ozone Layer The ozone layer is a layer in Earth's atmosphere which contains relatively high concentrations of ozone (O3). This layer absorbs 97-99% of the sun's high frequency ultraviolet light, which is potentially damaging to life on earth. 
However, CFCs damage ozone in the ozone layer when they escape into the atmosphere. This allows more ultraviolet radiation to reach the Earth’s surface. When scientists discovered that CFCs damage the ozone layer, they suggested that CFCs should be banned. CFCs have some useful properties. For example: they are chemically inert (unreactive). they have a low boiling points (so they turn into gases easily). they are insoluble [insoluble: Unable to dissolve (usually in water).] in water. These properties made CFCs very useful in the past. They were used as refrigerants (the substances needed in refrigerators to remove the heat from inside). They were also used in aerosol cans as propellants (the gases that push the product out through the nozzle)
CFCs. Chlorofluorocarbon (CFC) is an organic compound that contains carbon, chlorine, and fluorine, produced as a volatile derivative of methane and ethane. A common subclass is the hydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs), which contain hydrogen, as well. Freon is DuPont's brand name for CFCs, HCFCs and related compounds. One of the elements that make up CFCs is chlorine. Very little chlorine exists naturally in the atmosphere. But it turns out that CFCs are an excellent way of introducing chlorine into the ozone layer. The ultraviolet radiation at this altitude breaks down CFCs, freeing the chlorine.