If you take a distribution from your retirement plan early (meaning before the day you turn 59 1/2) you will generally have to pay a 10% early distribution tax above and beyond any regular income taxes you may owe on the money. Medical Expenses. If you withdraw money from a retirement plan to pay medical expenses, a portion of that distribution might escape the early distribution tax. But once again, the exception is not as simple or as generous as it sounds.
Roth contributions. You can take penalty-free withdrawals from a Roth IRA, if they don’t exceed the amount you contributed and the account is at least 5 years old. But the earnings in the Roth IRA don’t become tax free until you turn 59 ½. And if you take money out, you’ll have reduced its ability to grow. Early 401(k) distribution. If you retire or are fired from your job after you are 55, then you can withdraw from your 401(k) without having to pay the 10 percent penalty. But this rule only applies to your current employer’s 401(k) plan.
This means you can take out your retirement money without penalty, and because Roth earnings are tax-free, you'll have no IRS bill, either. If, however, you opened your Roth IRA less than five years ago, the withdrawal is an early distribution. As with a traditional IRA early withdrawal, a Roth holder can use the first-home exception to avoid the 10 percent penalty but might owe tax on earnings that are withdrawn. To let the IRS know that you used the retirement money early for a tax-acceptable purpose, file Form 5329. When you report your withdrawal here, you'll also enter a code, found in the form's instructions, that lets the IRS know the distribution is penalty-free.
However, you may have to pay taxes and penalties on earnings in your Roth IRA. Withdrawals from a Roth IRA you've had less than five years. If you take a distribution of Roth IRA earnings before you reach age 59½ and before the account is five years old, the earnings may be subject to taxes and penalties. 
+ More. If you withdraw money from your individual retirement account before age 59 1/2, you will generally have to pay a 10 percent early withdrawal penalty in addition to income tax on the amount withdrawn. But there are a variety of ways to avoid the IRA early withdrawal penalty if you meet specific criteria: Turn age 59 1/2. Once you turn age 59 1/2, you can withdraw any amount from your IRA without having to pay the 10 percent penalty. But regular income tax will still be due on each withdrawal. IRA distributions are not required until after age 70 1/2. [Read: How to Save for Retirement on a Small Salary.]. College costs
A non-qualified distribution is subject to taxation of earnings and a 10% additional tax unless an exception applies. For Roth IRAs, you can always remove post-tax penalty contributions (also known as basis) from your Roth IRA without penalty. Consult your tax advisor about your particular situation. 
Though you may take money out of your 401(k) to use as a down payment, expect to pay a 10 percent penalty. However, take the money from your IRA, and it's penalty-free. The penalty-free withdrawal is not limited to first-timers either. Homebuyers must not have owned a home in the previous two years, though. Further you can take more than one penalty-free withdrawal to buy a home, but there is a $10,000 limit. Contributions to a Roth IRA can be taken out at any time, and its earnings may be withdrawn penalty and tax-free after five years. The same rules apply to a Roth 401(k),but only if the employer plan permits.
Roth IRA earnings are subject to a penalty if you take a distribution during the first five years you have the account, with the following exceptions: 1  You use the withdrawal (up to a $10,000 lifetime maximum) to pay for a first-time home purchase. 2  You use the withdrawal to pay for qualified education expenses. 
To subscribe, click here. Taking money from a traditional IRA early is rarely a good idea. It's best to allow the assets to grow tax-deferred. What's more, if you're younger than 59 1/2, you'll pay a 10% early-withdrawal tax penalty. If you violate any of the rules, you could pay big penalties. The biggest disadvantage of 72(t) is inflexibility, says Mike Piershale, a financial adviser in Crystal Lake, Ill. As with typical withdrawals from a traditional IRA, distributions will be taxed at your ordinary-income tax rate.