Protists use diverse modes of nutrition (continued) –Protists that absorb nutrients directly from the surrounding environment are of two types –Free-living types in the soil that decompose organic dead matter –Parasites that live inside the bodies of other organisms, sometimes harming the host. Most protists are single celled – Protists include any eukaryote that is not a plant, animal, or fungus –Most protists are single-celled and microscopic in size –Some are large aggregations or colonies of single-celled individuals; others are multicellular organisms. Table 20-1.
Plant-like protists are autotrophic. They can live in soil, on the bark of trees, in fresh water, and in salt water. These protists are very important to the Earth because they produce a lot of oxygen, and most living things need oxygen to survive. Furthermore, these plant-like protists form the base of aquatic food chains. These plant-like protists can be unicellular, multicellular, or live in colonies.
Both seaweed and diatoms are types of algae. Slime molds are another type ofmulticellular protist.Given the many different types of organisms grouped together asprotists, it is no surprise that protists play many roles in their environ-ments. Algae are producers. 
Protists are organisms that are classified into the kingdom Protista. The protists form a group of organisms that really do not fit into any other kingdom. Although there is a lot of variety within the protists, they do share some common characteristics. These protists are very important to the Earth because they produce a lot of oxygen, and most living things need oxygen to survive. Furthermore, these plant-like protists form the base of aquatic food chains. These plant-like protists can be unicellular, multicellular, or live in colonies.
Pandas live in central China, on misty mountains. They can live to elevations of around 11,000 feet. These mountains have four seasons, like the rest of China. The pandas live … in high elevations in the summer, and lower elevations in the winter. They sleep in caves and tree stumps, which are not permanent home
Protists live in almost any environment that contains liquid water. Many protists, such as algae, are photosynthetic and are vital primary producers in ecosystems, particularly in the ocean as part of the plankton. Some protists are significant parasites of animals (e.g., five species of the parasitic genus Plasmodium cause malaria in humans and many others cause similar diseases in other vertebrates), plants (the oomycete Phytophthora infestans causes late blight in potatoes) or even of other protists.
SECTION 2 Protists 355 Protists in the Environment Algae areimportant as food for animals that live in lakes,rivers, oceans, and other bodies of water.Diatoms and one-celled green algae are eaten byprotozoans and other small animals. 
Mitochondria require. . Protists that live in environments without oxygenfor instance, in black muds or inside the digestive tract of animalsgenerally do not have mitochondria, and they create cellular energy by processes unique to the kingdom Protista. (Organisms without nucleithe. and. , or blue-green algaeare called prokaryotes.) Although most protists have a single nucleus, protists are unique in that some contain multiple nucleiup to ten thousand in a single celland others, such as. , have two different-sized nuclei in a single cell.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. wet environments such as: snow, streams, ponds, lakes, and wet soil. They do not live in water that has chlorine like pools. 
These organisms are all eukaryotes (they have a true nucleus). They all need some kind of a water-based environment--which can be fresh or marine water, snow, damp soil, polar bear hairs--in which to live. All are aerobic and have mitochondria to do cellular respiration, and some have chloroplasts and can do photosynthesis. Most of them reproduce or grow by mitosis, and some reproduce by meiosis and fertilization. Many can form cysts in adverse conditions. Protists are a major component of plankton.