The combined cost to the U.S. economy is $344 billion annually. Depending upon the industry, presenteeism can account for up to 60 percent of a company’s direct and indirect health costs, when factoring in productivity. Poor health generally costs the U.S. economy more than a half trillion dollars annually. There are, of course, causes of presenteeism that are not health-related. More than 80 percent of a company’s total cost of allergies is on-the-job productivity loss. That is not a small consideration in Dallas-Fort Worth, which consistently ranks high among U.S. regions in allergens. The corresponding figure for migraine headaches is nearly 90 percent.
In the case of the entitlement mentality, when employees see other employees taking long lunches or breaks or making personal phone calls on company time they feel they are also entitled to do the same. It is important to note that in some cases presenteeism contributes to the cost of absenteeism. This occurs when an employee is contagious and spreads germs to other employees in the workplace. These newly infected employees will elect to deal with their illness through either absenteeism or presenteeism. Absenteeism, where the employee does not report to work, costs $118 billion annually and medical expenses and lost productivity. Employee illness can be grouped into five different categories.
The prevalence of seasonal allergies can translate into a substantial aggregate loss in productivity. In a pilot study of the effect that 28 medical conditions had on presenteeism at Lockheed Martin, the cost of allergies and sinus trouble was estimated to total $1.8 million across a workforce of 25,000. 
1. The cost of presenteeism has now surpassed the cost of absenteeism. Presenteeism, which refers to sick employees who come to work instead of staying at home, now surpasses $180 billion annually. Absenteeism, where the employee does not report to work, costs $118 billion annually and medical expenses and lost productivity. Employee illness can be grouped into five different categories.
Move over absenteeism. It seems presenteeism has become the far worse workplace culprit in terms of causing loss to U.S. employers; that is, loss of employee productivity and loss of employer dollars. The bottom line: Presenteeism is costing employers more than absenteeism. In case you're unfamiliar with the term, presenteeism was coined to define the practice of workers reporting to work when ill and not operating to their usual level of productivity. Some of these changes have contributed to the growing incidence of presenteeism. Increase in dual-earner and sandwich generation households. 1  Dual-earner families now account for about two-thirds of all married couples, this up from one-third in 1970.
Remarkably, allergies and sinus trouble cost the company $1.8 million. Presenteeism from these ailments can cut individual productivity by one-third or more. More than 80 percent of a company’s total cost of allergies is on-the-job productivity loss. That is not a small consideration in Dallas-Fort Worth, which consistently ranks high among U.S. regions in allergens. The corresponding figure for migraine headaches is nearly 90 percent.
1 Studies suggest that the time lost and cost of presenteeism far outweigh those of absenteeism and that the amount of presenteeism varies depending on the health condition or conditions. 2  Mental health conditions appear to lead to more presenteeism than physical health conditions. Presenteeism therefore cost 1.8 times that of absenteeism. The Government’s Foresight Mental Capital and Wellbeing Project (2008) estimated the annual cost of presenteeism associated with mental health problems to be around £9.7 billion in the UK.
This landmark report and study revealed that in 2005/6 the cost of presenteeism to the economy was estimated at $25.7 billion, nearly four times the cost of absenteeism.Four years on, Medibank has revisited this research to assess the current state of presenteeism. It was revealed that presenteeism is a long-term issue and will continue to have a negative effect on the economy. Indeed, in 2050, the total cost of presenteeism is estimated to rise to $35.8 billion worth of Australia’s 2009/10 GDP – equating to a decrease in GDP of 2.8%.
4. The cost of presenteeism Presenteeism is an ongoing problem for the Australian economy. The impact of presenteeism far outweighs the cost of absenteeism. The economic cost of presenteeism The overall cost of presenteeism to the Australian economy in 2009/10 was $34.1 billion (Figure 1). This equates to a decrease in gross domestic product (GDP) of 2.7% compared to the ‘no presenteeism’ scenario. It was revealed that presenteeism is a long-term issue and will continue to have a negative effect on the economy. Indeed, in 2050, the total cost of presenteeism is estimated to rise to $35.8 billion worth of Australia’s 2009/10 GDP – equating to a decrease in GDP of 2.8%.