If you want to postpone your period, just start taking birth control pills (at least about 10 days before your period is due), and continue taking it until you want your period to start. The next period will start about 3-5 days after taking the last tablet. It's also possible to prepone the period. Start birth control pills from Day 1 of your cycle; take them for at least 10 - 15 days; and stop them about 3-5 days before you want your period to start. It's a good idea to use a regular dose birth control pills; or to take 2 tablets daily. Adjusting your cycle. 
1 A frozen transfer cycle of day 3 embryos is similar, usually with 2 days less progesterone exposure prior to transfer. 2  This sample calendar shows the timing of the medications, monitoring of uterine lining development, and procedures. 3  Variations from this schedule are often done. 
We may use birth control pills starting on day 3 of your cycle. There are two main reasons for taking birth control pills prior to your IVF cycle. First of all, taking birth control pills prior to a stimulation cycle may help the ovaries respond better to the stimulation medication. Typically the injections are given daily for 8-12 days, depending on how your body responds to the medications. The average number of eggs retrieved at IVF is between 8 and 15. Please remember that it is the quality of the eggs, not the quantity that is important.
Third, there are two days during your menstrual cycle, when you can start your birth control pills. You can start either on the first day of your period or seven days after it. Either way will work. Our IVF doctors will create an IVF calendar for you, which will clearly state when you need to go off your birth control. Once the patient gets off the birth control pill, she will typically start her period 5 days later. The first day of heavy menstrual flows will be your Cycle Day 1. Note that some IVF protocols will require you to stay on the pill longer than 21 days.
It is rare to get a false positive 16 days after egg retrieval (Ovidrel or hCG from your trigger shot can linger in the body for as long as 12 days). Your most reliable result will come from your Quantitative Beta test on the day your IVF nurse recommends. Testing before that day can result in a worrisome low level. 
Day 3 Transfer Vs. In many IVF cycles, the doctor may recommend a day 5 or “blastocyst” transfer. If the embryo(s) survives in the IVF lab for five days after the egg retrieval, it is likely that it will have reached the blastocyst stage. At this stage we are able to transfer just two embryos to achieve the same pregnancy rate as transferring three embryos on day 3. Day 5 (Blastocyst) Transfer. In many IVF cycles, the doctor may recommend a day 5 or “blastocyst” transfer. If the embryo(s) survives in the IVF lab for five days after the egg retrieval, it is likely that it will have reached the blastocyst stage.
1 This example is for a 28 day menstrual cycle. 2  Birth control pills are not being used to control the menstrual cycle in this example. 3  For cycles using a birth control pill (BCP or OCP), we usually give 12-21 days of pills overlapping Lupron with the last 3 pills. As far as calculating a due date after IVF, the most accurate method is to add 266 days (or 38 weeks) to the day of the egg retrieval. The eggs are fertilized that day, which is the same as day 14 - the day of ovulation and fertilization in a normal
Step 11-Pregnancy Follow-up. Please call our office after the embryo transfer to schedule your pregnancy test 14 days after the egg retrieval. The pregnancy test is obtained before 10:00 a.m. and the results will be called to you the same afternoon. Positive tests are repeated in one week, and a sonogram will be scheduled. Typically the injections are given daily for 8-12 days, depending on how your body responds to the medications. The average number of eggs retrieved at IVF is between 8 and 15. Please remember that it is the quality of the eggs, not the quantity that is important.
Starting Your IVF Cycle. The IVF cycle entails multiple steps, and each step takes place at a specific time during a six-week period. The IVF procedure is based on the following steps: (1) Preparation for treatment, (2) Induction of ovulation, (3) Egg retrieval, and (4) Embryo transfer. Typically the injections are given daily for 8-12 days, depending on how your body responds to the medications. The average number of eggs retrieved at IVF is between 8 and 15. Please remember that it is the quality of the eggs, not the quantity that is important.