A neuromuscular junction is a synapse between a motor neuron and skeletal muscle. This lesson describes the events of synaptic transmission leading to contraction of skeletal muscle. Myasthenia gravis is described as a neuromuscular disease. More specifically, the synapse between a motor neuron and a skeletal muscle cell is referred to as a myoneural or neuromuscular junction. If you break down these terms, the names will make better sense. 'Myo'- means muscle, and 'neuro'- refers to nerves.
The neuromuscular junction comprises four cell types: the motor neuron, terminal Schwann cell, skeletal muscle fibre and kranocyte, with the motor neuron and muscle fibre separated by a gap called the synaptic cleft. Specialisations of the neuromuscular junction mean that activity in and release of transmitter from motor neurons produces contraction of skeletal muscle fibres rapidly and reliably.
The particular synapse made between a spinal motor neuron and skeletal muscle cell is called the motor endplate because of its specific structure. The synapse at the neuromuscular junction has three characteristic features of chemical synapses in the nervous system. First, there is a distinct separation between the presynaptic and the postsynaptic membrane. The space between the two is known as the synaptic cleft. 4.1 Anatomy of the Neuromuscular Junction. The synapse for which most is known is the one formed between a spinal motor neuron and a skeletal muscle cell. Historically, it has been studied extensively because it is relatively easy to analyze.
Key Concepts: The somatic neuromuscular junction is the site of communication between motor neurons and skeletal muscle fibres. Specialisations of the neuromuscular junction mean that activity in and release of transmitter from motor neurons produces contraction of skeletal muscle fibres rapidly and reliably.
Each neuromuscular junction consists of the axon terminal of a motor neuron and the motor end plate of a muscle fibre. : 1  The long processes of neurones are called axons. : 2  The part of the sarcolemma of the muscle cell that is in closest proximity to the synaptic end bulb is called the  motor end plate . Each neuromuscular junction consists of the axon terminal of a motor neuron and the motor end plate of a muscle fibre. : 1  The long processes of neurones are called axons. 2  As the axon of a motor neurone enters the structure of skeletal muscle it forms many branches called  axon terminals .
1 INTRODUCTION A neuromuscular junction is a synapse between a motoneuron and a muscle cell it innvervates. The prejunctional nerve terminal is a transducer that converts an electrical signal (an action potential in the prejunctional motoneuron) into a chemical signal (transmitter release). At the neuromuscular junction (figure to the right) the terminal branch of the motor axon lies in a shallow groove, or synaptic trough, on the muscle cell. The muscle plasma membrane that forms the synaptic trough is pleated to form postjunctional folds.
The junction between the axon terminals of a neuron and the receiving cell is called a synapse. (Synapses at muscle fibers are also called neuromuscular junctions or myoneural junctions 1  .). Action potentials travel down the axon of the neuron to its end(s), the axon terminal(s). 
The neuromuscular junction is the synapse that is formed between an alpha motor neuron (α-MN) and the skeletal muscle fiber. When a muscle contracts, an action potential is propagated down a nerve until it reaches the axon terminal of the motor neuron. The polarization of membranes is controlled by sodium, potassium, calcium, and chloride ion channels. There are two types of ion channels involved in the neuromuscular junction and end plate potentials: voltage-gated ion channel and ligand-gated ion channel.
A neuromuscular junction (sometimes called a myoneural junction) is a junction between nerve and muscle; it is a chemical synapse formed by the contact between the presynaptic terminal of a motor neuron and the postsynaptic membrane of a muscle fiber. The neuromuscular junction is the site of the signal exchange. The steps of this process in vertebrates occur as follows:(`) The action potential reaches the axon terminal. (2) Voltage-dependent calcium gates open, allowing calcium to enter
The neuromuscular junction (NMJ) is the site of communication between motor nerve axons and muscle fibres. It is composed of four specialised cell types: motor neurons, Schwann cells, muscle fibres and the recently discovered kranocytes. Specialisations of the neuromuscular junction mean that activity in and release of transmitter from motor neurons produces contraction of skeletal muscle fibres rapidly and reliably.