There are a great deal of pitbull bloodlines that were created by dog breeders. Some of the bloodlines that were created were Razors Edge, Colby, Gator, as well as Carver and Chevy just to name a few. While Razors Edge pit bulls were bred as family dogs, many of the Chevy dogs were bred as weight pulling dogs. While there is only one pit bull there are many different pitbull bloodlines. Each has their own structures, temperaments, history, and strengths. Built for performance, the pit bull is a medium sized, very muscular, short coated breed. They are known for their intelligence, strength, loyalty and friendliness.
We will be trying to break down the basics and a little history of some of the most popular bloods you will find in most of the bully style pit bulls. There are a lot of different bloodlines for the pitbulls that produce different styles. It doesn’t mean you have to stick to a certain blood to get the look you want. An experienced breeder will know how to work with the different bloodlines to achieve the look they are trying to produce. There are probably only about 10% of breeders that have the knowledge and scientific background in breeding dogs; and that is likely a high estimate.
Pit Bulls in general are a very misunderstood breed. I do a lot of volunteer animal welfare work and transportation of pets between shelters. Take a look at how many unwanted pit bulls are sitting in kill and no kill sheleters before you add to the population. Braesal answered on 1/2/10. / 7. Good breeders study for years and have a good experienced and ethical mentor before they breed. Plus, they get quality dogs and KNOW THE DOG'S BLOODLINE long before they decide to breed the dog. Good breeders also do a lot of health tests, not just a vet check.
List of different American Pit Bull and American Bully bloodlines. If you know of a line that is not listed here let us know. Note: some claim that some of these lines are really American Bully lines or American Staffordshire Terrier lines, while others say they are indeed Pit Bull lines.
No. The American Pit Bull Terrier is a breed and the Gator pit or gator mouth pit is a term used by back yard breeders to sell puppies. There are two bloodlines of A … PBT that could be considered gator. Those are CH Crenshaw's Gator ROM and CH Plumber's Alligator POR. A pit bull is short for American Pit Bull Terrier (APBT), These are very different from Bully breeds, As the bully was bred with other breeds to change size, strength, and color. An APBT is NOT a bully
Also, please do not breed your dog unless you are ABSOLUTELY SURE you can find good (life-long) homes for all of the puppies-Petfinder lists at least 25 pit bulls and staffordshire terriers in shelters within 20 miles of my house, and I live in a remote rural area. Zack answered on 8/29/08. / 7. Good breeders study for years and have a good experienced and ethical mentor before they breed. Plus, they get quality dogs and KNOW THE DOG'S BLOODLINE long before they decide to breed the dog. Good breeders also do a lot of health tests, not just a vet check.
Pit bull is a slang term used to describe several bully breeds. 1 in every 600 pit bulls find forever homes.. A pit bull is short for American Pit Bull Terrier (APBT), These are very different from Bully breeds, As the bully was bred with other breeds to change size, strength, and color. An APBT is NOT a bully
A Pit Bull is a fighting dog. ANY BREED can be a fighting dog! More tan likely the dog is a staffie or some sort of Bully breed. there are so many.. and with crossbreeding to get that special dog, people have created so many variables in the line that you could have a dog with 5 different breeds in it. There has been much woofing about how to identify a Pit Bull type dog. This week a friend of mine was given a real Pit Bull test. Forget your DNA or your pictures to tell you, we have the sure-fire method. This is Sully.
Razors Edge pitbulls is a bloodline for everyone, it offers show quality dogs, bully correct dogs, bully dogs, and overdone dogs, overdone meaning extreme bone, head, and chest, at the same time very nice dogs, but dogs that would not be able to win in the show ring. Razors Edge Pitbulls tend to have more of the classic pitbull look and still retain the pitbull features in a shorter stockier version. Razors Edge Pitbulls is often referred to as the cleaner look compared to other bully pitbull bloodlines.