Deficiency Causes. Although vitamin D is a fat-soluble nutrient that your body stores in its fatty tissue, some individuals are at risk for a deficiency. For example, breastfed babies may not get enough of the nutrient and the elderly and dark-skinned individuals cannot produce vitamin D from the sun efficiently. Vitamin D Intake. Vitamin D doses are measured in international units, or IUs. The Food and Nutrition Board of the Institute of Medicine recommends that from birth to one year of age, babies get 400 IUs of vitamin D daily. The intake goes up to 600 IUs when children turn one year old.
Together, the two reduce the amount of oxygen exchange in the lungs and thicken the lining of the airways. COPD is progressive and causes shortness of breath, wheezing, and chronic cough -- a persistent, phlegm-producing cough. People with COPD can have varying abilities when it comes to breathing. Some may experience shortness of breath during moderate exercise. Others need oxygen just to walk across the room.
Vitamin B12 deficiency causes many symptoms, which include gastrointestinal problems as well as neurological problems. The following is a list of common symptoms caused by vitamin B12 deficiency. There are some symptoms of B12 deficiency that can be similar to other disorders or problems and in many causes seem mild. These symptoms include: 1. 4. Shortness of Breath. When the body has a B12 deficiency, often shortness of breath is a symptom that occurs. Labored breathing results because the B12 is not being absorbed properly. 5.
Another type of vitamin insufficiency that can lead to shortness of breath is a vitamin B-12, or cobalamin, deficiency. Vitamin Insufficiency & Shortness of Breath. Vitamin C rich foods like strawberries. Photo Credit Medioimages/Photodisc/Photodisc/Getty Images. Vitamins regulate multiple aspects of your health, and an insufficiency in any of the several essential vitamins has adverse health effects. One possible sign of a vitamin insufficiency is shortness of breath, which can develop due to a number of vitamin deficiency related-disorders
WebMD Symptom Checker helps you find the most common medical conditions indicated by the symptoms shortness of breath including Generalized anxiety disorder, Atrial flutter, and Asthma (teen and adult). There are 65 conditions associated with shortness of breath. The links below will provide you with more detailed information on these medical conditions from the WebMD Symptom Checker and help provide a better understanding of causes and treatment of these related conditions. 1  Generalized anxiety disorder.
Deficiency Consequences. A lack of vitamin D does not cause shortness of breath, but it results in other serious health problems. Since vitamin D optimizes calcium absorption and use, low levels of the nutrient cause soft and distorted bones in children. Vitamin D Intake. Vitamin D doses are measured in international units, or IUs. The Food and Nutrition Board of the Institute of Medicine recommends that from birth to one year of age, babies get 400 IUs of vitamin D daily. The intake goes up to 600 IUs when children turn one year old.
Most cases of shortness of breath are due to heart or lung conditions. Your heart and lungs are involved in transporting oxygen to your tissues and removing carbon dioxide, and problems with either of these processes affect your breathing. 1  Asthma. 2  Carbon monoxide poisoning. 3  Cardiac tamponade. 
To prevent shortness of breath due to vitamin B-12 deficiency, consume at least 2.4 mcg of the vitamin daily from dietary sources of vitamin supplements, recommends the University of Maryland Medical Center. As you age, you may require addition vitamin B-12 intake via fortified foods or supplements. Vitamin Insufficiency & Shortness of Breath. Vitamin C rich foods like strawberries. Photo Credit Medioimages/Photodisc/Photodisc/Getty Images. Vitamins regulate multiple aspects of your health, and an insufficiency in any of the several essential vitamins has adverse health effects. One possible sign of a vitamin insufficiency is shortness of breath, which can develop due to a number of vitamin deficiency related-disorder