People who suffer from both peanut allergies and acid reflux may not realize at first that their peanut allergy symptoms are showing up in the form of a bad case of acid reflux. Keeping a journal of foods that you eat will help you see the pattern that acid reflux symptoms worsen when you eat peanuts.
Peanut butter is a good source of protein, fiber and heart-healthy fat. In addition, including peanut butter in your diet offers a number of health benefits, including reducing your risk of heart disease and diabetes, according to the Peanut Institute.
Re: does peanut butter affect acid reflux. I'd say yes! Peanut butter is probably one of the most-acid inducing foods because it is primarily fat. It requires more energy to digest (just like any other fatty food), which requires more acid to do the job. Lay off the PB, and switch to a low-fat carb-based diet.
Do not assume that you are allergic to all nuts even if you do have a peanut allergy. Peanuts are actually legumes and are different from tree nuts. In some people, acid reflux symptoms are actually improved when they add walnuts to their diet. This is because walnuts contain a lot of omega-3 fatty acids. These acids actually minimize the symptoms of acid reflux in some people.
While peanut butter is a high-fat food, if you really enjoy it, you may be able to continue to include it in your diet. Limiting the amount you eat at a meal can help reduce the total fat content of your meal, which may improve tolerance.
Anyone who knows that they have a peanut allergy should avoid eating peanuts. Even if you do not have this type of food allergy, but you do suffer from acid reflux disease, it is best to avoid eating peanut butter and peanut products.
The GERD diet is designed to eliminate foods that may exacerbate these symptoms. These foods can include chocolate, coffee, alcohol, soda and fried or high-fat foods. Other items, including peanut butter, may be fine for you eat on a GERD diet, but you check with your doctor first.
Well, like most nut butters, peanut butter is high in fat and calories (with around 190 calories and 16 grams of fat per 2 tablespoons). But the good news is, you get a lot of nutrition for your 190-calorie investment. Nuts and nut butters are a great source of protein, fiber, vitamins, minerals, and phytochemicals.