Piston ring size and configuration vary depending on engine design and cylinder material. Piston rings commonly used on small engines include the compression ring, wiper ring, and oil ring. A compression ring is the piston ring located in the ring groove closest to the piston head. The compression ring seals the combustion chamber from any leakage during the combustion process. Combustion gas pressure forces the piston ring against the cylinder wall to form a seal. Pressure applied to the piston ring is approximately proportional to the combustion gas pressure. A wiper ring is the piston ring with a tapered face located in the ring groove between the compression ring and the oil ring.
For a small extra investment in a piston ring made from a higher-specification material, the cost saving can prove to be substantial. Tool steels combine toughness and wear resistance with high strength. These qualities also allow engineers to specify ever-smaller piston rings without sacrificing engine longevity. It should be noted that nitrocarburising and nitriding are both used in the production of certain cast-iron piston rings as well. Tool steel piston rings are generally used where the durability of other materials is insufficient. As a piston ring, they can be an expensive option, but where ring wear or breakage is the limiting factor for engine durability, they can reduce rebuild frequenc
The gap in the piston ring compresses to a few thousandths of an inch when inside the cylinder bore. Piston rings are a major factor in identifying if an engine is two stroke or four stroke. Three piston rings suggest that it is a four stroke engine while two piston rings suggest that it is a two stroke engine. The piston ring (PR) is a split band pressed against the wall of the cylinder by springs (S) mounted in the inner junk ring (JR). The tongue (T) maintains the seal as the ring expands and splits apart.
Piston features include the piston head, piston pin bore, piston pin, skirt, ring grooves, ring lands, and piston rings. The piston head is the top surface (closest to the cylinder head) of the piston which is subjected to tremendous forces and heat during normal engine operation. Combustion gas pressure forces the piston ring against the cylinder wall to form a seal. Pressure applied to the piston ring is approximately proportional to the combustion gas pressure. A wiper ring is the piston ring with a tapered face located in the ring groove between the compression ring and the oil ring.
Another piston ring design consideration is cylinder wall contact pressure. This pressure is usually dependent on the elasticity of the piston ring material, free piston ring gap, and exposure to combustion gases. All piston rings used by Briggs & Stratton engines are made of cast iron. Combustion gas pressure forces the piston ring against the cylinder wall to form a seal. Pressure applied to the piston ring is approximately proportional to the combustion gas pressure. A wiper ring is the piston ring with a tapered face located in the ring groove between the compression ring and the oil ring.
Piston ring. The piston ring (PR) is a split band pressed against the wall of the cylinder by springs (S) mounted in the inner junk ring (JR). The tongue (T) maintains the seal as the ring expands and splits apart. Spring-loaded piston rings. A pair of piston rings mounted on a 47mm two-stroke cycle scooter piston
Piston rings for engines with relatively low to medium piston speeds are generally made from cast iron. The rather brittle nature of cast iron is the reason why rings sometimes break under stress. If piston rings are made of steel this will not occur-eg many modern engines now use exotic materials. As speeds rise rings become thinner and have to work a lot harder, so manufacturers move to more durable materials which are outside of the scope of this article.
Most automotive pistons have three rings: The top two while also controlling oil are primarily for compression sealing (compression rings); the lower ring is for controlling the supply of oil to the liner which lubricates the piston skirt and the compression rings (oil control rings). The piston ring (PR) is a split band pressed against the wall of the cylinder by springs (S) mounted in the inner junk ring (JR). The tongue (T) maintains the seal as the ring expands and splits apart.