Because of its low pungency and low risk of respiratory irritation, sevoflurane is currently the most popular anesthetic agent in North America for anesthesia induction by inhalation. Conversely, desflurane is avoided for induction because of its high pungency and high risk of respiratory irritation. 
Sevoflurane is the preferred agent for mask induction due to its lesser irritation to mucous membranes, along with desflurane, it is replacing halothane and forane. Like the other halogenated ethers, it is administered in a mixture of nitrous oxide and oxygen. Acetaldehyde is a volatile, flammable and colorless liquid with a pungent, fruity odor commonly used in disinfectants. It is widely used as a chemical intermediate, principally for the production of acetic acid, pyridine and pyridine bases, peracetic acid, pentaerythritol, butylene glycol, and chloral.
Sevoflurane has an excellent safety record, but is under review for potential neurotoxicity, especially relevant to administration in infants and children, and rare reports similar to halothane hepatotoxicity. Sevoflurane is the preferred agent for mask induction due to its lesser irritation to mucous membranes. Sevoflurane was discovered by Ross Terrell and independently by Bernard M Regan. Sevoflurane is an inhaled anaesthetic that is often used to put children asleep for surgery. During the process of waking up from the medication, it has been known to cause agitation and delirium. It is not clear if this can be prevented.
BACKGROUND: Fires, explosions, and extreme heat production may occur when sevoflurane reacts with desiccated barium hydroxide lime. The identity of the flammable gas has not previously been published, although carbon monoxide, methanol, formaldehyde, and methyl formate have been identified in low quantities. The temperature above which large amounts of hydrogen were produced seemed to be 300 degrees C. CONCLUSIONS: Up to 3 moles of hydrogen are produced by the chemical reaction of sevoflurane with heated, desiccated absorbent.
Sevoflurane (1,1,1,3,3,3-hexafluoro-2-(fluoromethoxy)propane; synonym, fluoromethyl hexafluoroisopropyl ether), is a sweet-smelling, nonflammable, highly fluorinated methyl isopropyl ether used as an inhalational anaesthetic for induction and maintenance of general anesthesia. Sevoflurane is an inhaled anaesthetic that is often used to put children asleep for surgery. During the process of waking up from the medication, it has been known to cause agitation and delirium. It is not clear if this can be prevented.
Approved. Description. Sevoflurane (2,2,2-trifluoro-1-[trifluoromethyl]ethyl fluoromethyl ether), also called fluoromethyl, is a sweet-smelling, non-flammable, highly fluorinated methyl isopropyl ether used for induction and maintenance of general anesthesia. 
Isoflurane (2-chloro-2-(difluoromethoxy)-1,1,1-trifluoro-ethane) is a halogenated ether used for inhalational anesthesia. Together with enflurane and halothane, it replaced the flammable ethers used in the pioneer days of surgery. Its name comes from being a structural isomer of enflurane, hence they have the same empirical formula. It is a racemic mixture of (R) and (S) optical isomers. Its use in human medicine is now starting to decline, being replaced with sevoflurane, desflurane, and the intravenous anaesthetic propofol. Isoflurane is still frequently used for veterinary anaesthesia. Isoflurane is always administered in conjunction with air and/or pure oxygen
A Stacy Wiegman, PharmD, Pharmacy, answered. Sevoflurane is a general anesthetic drug that is used during surgery to prevent pain. Like all general anesthetics, it is given only by prescription and by a doctor who specializes in anesthesia. Sevoflurane is inhaled and works by depressing the nervous system, causing you to lose consciousness. The brand name for this drug is Ultane