Anastrozole Sandoz belongs to a group of medicines called non-steroidal aromatase inhibitors. Anastrozole Sandoz is a non-steroidal aromatase inhibitor, which reduces the amount of oestrogen (female sex hormone) made by the body in postmenopausal women. In some types of breast cancer, oestrogen can help the cancer cells grow. By blocking oestrogen, Anastrozole Sandoz may slow or stop the growth of cancer
Mari Susette Sandoz (May 11, 1896 – March 10, 1966) was a Nebraska novelist, biographer, lecturer, and teacher. She was one of the West's foremost writers, and wrote extensively about pioneer life and the Plains Indians. Sandoz has been, at times, referred to as Mari S. Sandoz, Marie Sandoz, and Maris Sandoz. 
Sandoz: As of 2013, Sandoz was the world's second largest generic drug company, contributing US$1.09 billion to Novartis' operating profit on US$8.70 billion in revenue in 2012. Sandoz' biosimilars leads its field, getting the first biosimilar approvals in the EU. Novartis AG owns, directly or indirectly, all companies worldwide that operate as subsidiaries of the Novartis Group. The businesses of Novartis are divided into three operating divisions: Pharmaceuticals, Alcon (eye care) and Sandoz (generics).
The name of your medicine is Amoxycillin Sandoz. It contains the active ingredient amoxycillin trihydrate. Amoxycillin is an antibiotic used in the treatment of bacterial infections. Amoxycillin Sandoz belongs to a group of antibiotics called penicillins. These antibiotics work by killing the bacteria that are causing your infection. Amoxycillin Sandoz is used for the treatment of chest infections. Amoxycillin Sandoz will not work against infections caused by viruses such as colds or the flu. Your doctor may have prescribed Amoxycillin Sandoz for another reason
FDA accepts Sandoz regulatory submission for a proposed biosimilar etanercept. Sandoz, a Novartis company and the global leader in biosimilars, announced today that the FDA has accepted its Biologics License Application (BLA) for its proposed biosimilar to Amgen’s US-licensed Enbrel® (etanercept). Read more news about Sandoz.
About Sandoz. Sandoz is a world leader in generic pharmaceuticals, finding innovative ways to making medicines affordable and accessible to more than 90 percent of the world’s population. Sandoz, a Novartis company and the global leader in biosimilars, announced today that the FDA has accepted its Biologics License Application (BLA) for its proposed biosimilar to Amgen’s US-licensed Enbrel® (etanercept). Read more news a
Novartis International AG is a Swiss multinational pharmaceutical company based in Basel, Switzerland, ranking number one in sales (57.9 billion US$) among the world-wide industry in 2013. Novartis AG owns, directly or indirectly, all companies worldwide that operate as subsidiaries of the Novartis Group. The businesses of Novartis are divided into three operating divisions: Pharmaceuticals, Alcon (eye care) and Sandoz (generics).
This leaflet is part III of a three-part “Product Monograph” published when Sandoz Ezetimibe was approved for sale in Canada and is designed specifically for Consumers. This leaflet is a summary and will not tell you everything about Sandoz Ezetimibe. 
In 1996, Ciba-Geigy merged with Sandoz, and the pharmaceutical and agrochemical divisions of both companies formed Novartis as an independent entity. Other Ciba-Geigy and Sandoz businesses were sold, or like Ciba Specialty Chemicals, spun off as independent companies. Novartis AG owns, directly or indirectly, all companies worldwide that operate as subsidiaries of the Novartis Group. The businesses of Novartis are divided into three operating divisions: Pharmaceuticals, Alcon (eye care) and Sandoz (generics).
Manufacturing, Broomfield, CO. Sandoz has two manufacturing facilities in the United States: Broomfield, Colorado and Wilson, North Carolina. The Broomfield manufacturing site also performs product development. 