Haier Group is a Chinese multinational consumer electronics and home appliances company headquartered in Qingdao, Shandong province, China. It designs, develops, manufactures and sells products including air conditioners, mobile phones, computers, microwave ovens, washing machines, refrigerators, and televisions. Haier had been founded as Qingdao Refrigerator Co. in 1984. With China opening up to world markets, foreign corporations began searching for partnerships in China.
Sean Gallup/Getty Images News/Getty Images. Haier TVs are made by the Haier Group, a Chinese company founded in Qingdao, China in 1984. The company began as a small refrigerator factory and quickly expanded over the years, opening its first American factory in 1999. The company offers a full line of home applianc
In June 2005, Haier made a bid to acquire Maytag Corporation, backed by private equity funds Blackstone Group and Bain Capital. The bid was for USD $1.28 billion, or $16 per share, topping a previous offer of $14.26 per share made by Ripplewood Holdings. Haier had been founded as Qingdao Refrigerator Co. in 1984. With China opening up to world markets, foreign corporations began searching for partnerships in China.
Haier Overall Rating. Any budget-minded consumer should consider Haier for their next (or first) HDTV purchase. The company is committed to a great value with all of its television sets, and has some of the best display panels on the market. Haier Product Quality. It’s easy to assume that a less-known television manufacturer is lowering its prices by using yesterday’s technology and incorporating subpar display panels and materials into the product. While that might be true for some low-end manufacturers, it is certainly not the case for Haier. The company is operating on the bleeding edge of high-definition television technology, and was among the first manufacturer to begin selling new televisions with ultra-thin LED-LCD displays
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: 1) Vizio is  handle  by Taiwan Amtrans .USA Vizio order to Taiwan Amtran, 20 % of Vizio TV manufactures by Amtrans China. 80 % of TV out source from Amtran to China TPV. * Amtran China factory is JV with LG (30 %). those TV from this factory use LG Korea LCD display panel, is quality TV is value for money products ! (only 20 % of Vizio) http://www.chinapost.com.tw/taiwan/t-bus...
Its not easy getting a handle on Haier. It makes more freezers, refrigerators and washing machines than anyone else–but it also churns out thousands of other products from cellphones to robots, defying the standard wisdom about focus. Its subsidiary, Hong Kong-traded Haier Electronics, which makes washing machines, also is enjoying a banner year: Consensus estimates put its revenue at $9.3 billion this year, up 22% on last year, and profits at $291 million, up 34%.
Haier TV Reviews. One of the least-known manufacturers of HDTVs is Haier, a company which is typically associated more with traditional appliances like refrigerators and air conditioners. Haier Product Quality. It’s easy to assume that a less-known television manufacturer is lowering its prices by using yesterday’s technology and incorporating subpar display panels and materials into the product. While that might be true for some low-end manufacturers, it is certainly not the case for Haier. The company is operating on the bleeding edge of high-definition television technology, and was among the first manufacturer to begin selling new televisions with ultra-thin LED-LCD display
According to data released by Euro monitor, in 2014 the Haier brand had the world's largest market share in white goods, with 10.2 per cent retail volume market share. Haier had been founded as Qingdao Refrigerator Co. in 1984. With China opening up to world markets, foreign corporations began searching for partnerships in China.