PMS is a solid-color matching system, used primarily for specifying second or third colors in printing, meaning colors in addition to black, (although, obviously, one can certainly print a one-color piece using a PMS color and no black all). If it is very important to match a certain PMS color in your project, such as when a corporate logo color is used, you may want to suggest to the that printer purchase that particular color pre-mixed from the ink supplier. This will help ensure a close match.
A way to prevent this is by using a standardized color matching system, such as the PANTONE MATCHING SYSTEM. Though PANTONE is not the only color standardization system, it is the most widely used and the one that most printers understand. Aside from being able to have consistency, PANTONE Colors allow you to use colors that cannot be mixed in CMYK. Because what you see on your monitor is never what will appear on a printed sheet, designers need a standardized color key. It can be very frustrating to see the logo you worked hard to create look deep blue on the client's letterhead, blue-greenish on his business card, and light blue on his very expensive envelopes.
The Pantone system also allows for many special colors to be produced, such as metallics and fluorescents. While most of the Pantone system colors are beyond the printed CMYK gamut, it was only in 2001 that Pantone began providing translations of their existing system with screen-based colors. Screen-based colors use the RGB color model —red, green, blue—system to create various colors. Pantone colors are described by their allocated number (typically referred to as, for example, PMS 130). PMS colors are almost always used in branding and have even found their way into government legislation and military standards (to describe the colors of flags and seals).
The company is best known for its Pantone Matching System (PMS), a proprietary color space used in a variety of industries, primarily printing, though sometimes in the manufacture of colored paint, fabric, and plastics. Pantone colors are described by their allocated number (typically referred to as, for example, PMS 130). PMS colors are almost always used in branding and have even found their way into government legislation and military standards (to describe the colors of flags and seals).
What is Pantone. Pantone is a standardized color matching system, utilizing the Pantone numbering system for identifying colors. By standardizing the colors, different manufacturers in different locations can all reference a Pantone numbered color, making sure colors match without direct contact with one another. Originally designed for the graphics industry, it was know as the Pantone Matching System, or the 'PMS' system. It's goal was to allow designers to 'color match' specific colors when a design enters production.
This is the most widely used Pantone palette, with colors sometimes referred to as 'PMS' (for Pantone Matching System) or 'spot colors', and is used in the graphics, print, and publishing, industries. How Pantone works. Pantone also has a Process palette, which consists of more than 3,000 color variations digitally created with CMYK process printing. Process printing requires the use of Cyan, Magenta, Yellow, and Black ink.Work printed using CMYK is also referred to as 4 Color Process Printing.
PMS stands for Pantone Matching System (PMS), a proprietary color space used in a variety of industries, primarily printing, though sometimes in the manufacture of colored paint, fabric, and plastics. PMS stands for Pantone Matching System colors. There can be so much variation in color using CMYK that Pantone set out to create a system that allowed for consistent color. This way a designer can create a logo that will print consistently from job to job an printer to printer.
The idea behind the PMS is to allow designers to color match specific colors when a design enters production stage, regardless of the equipment used to produce the color. This system has been widely adopted by graphic designers and reproduction and printing houses. Pantone colors are described by their allocated number (typically referred to as, for example, PMS 130). PMS colors are almost always used in branding and have even found their way into government legislation and military standards (to describe the colors of flags and seals).
CMYK vs. PMS. Frequently we ask if the colors for your print project are CMYK or PMS. To designers and printers this is common knowledge, but to a business owner who wants to print their logo or other branding collateral this question can result in confusion. PMS stands for Pantone Matching System colors. There can be so much variation in color using CMYK that Pantone set out to create a system that allowed for consistent color. This way a designer can create a logo that will print consistently from job to job an printer to printer.