WALTER CANNON devised the term homeostasis in 1930 while referring to how the body maintains its temperature, among other key variables. Homeostasis, from the Greek words for same and steady, refers to any process that living things use to actively maintain fairly stable conditions necessary for survival.
Homeostasis or homoeostasis (homeo- + -stasis) is the property of a system in which variables are regulated so that internal conditions remain stable and relatively constant. Examples of homeostasis include the regulation of temperature and the balance between acidity and alkalinity (pH). It is a process that maintains the stability of the human body's internal environment in response to changes in external conditions. 
Homeostasis is the human body keeping a constant internal temperature. The definition of homeostasis is the ability or tendency to maintain internal stability in an organism to compensate for environmental changes. An example of homeostasis is the human body keeping an average temperature of 98.6 degrees
homeostasis. the tendency of biological systems to maintain relatively constant conditions in the internal environment while continuously interacting with and adjusting to changes originating within or outside the system. See also balance and equilibrium. adj., adj homeostat´ic. 
Lesson Transcript. Instructor: Natalia Caporale. Homeostasis can be defined as a property of an organism or system that helps it maintain its parameters within a normal range of values. It is key to life, and failures in homeostasis can lead to diseases like hypertension and diabetes. For example, our concentration of salts and glucose (sugar) is constant; our body temperature is usually around 37 degrees Celsius (98.6 degrees Fahrenheit); the amount of blood in our bodies is about 5 liters, the osmolarity (number of solutes) of our blood remains about 300mOsm.
The ability of the body to regulate itself and maintain a comparatively stable internal environment despite outside conditions, traumatic actions, food supply or other ongoing events embodies the “wisdom of the body” that physiologist Walter Bradford Cannon referred to when he described its ability to reach homeostasis. 
(2) The ability of the body or a cell to seek and maintain a condition of equilibrium or stability within its internal environment when dealing with external changes. (3) homeostasis is the maintanance of the constant internal environment which include the function of kidney,liver,skin... Supplement. In humans, homeostasis happens when the body regulates body temperature in an effort to maintain an internal temperature around 98.6 degrees Fahrenheit.
By Regina Bailey. Definition: Homeostasis is the ability to maintain a constant internal environment in response to environmental changes. It is a unifying principle of biology. The nervous and endocrine systems control homeostasis in the body through feedback mechanisms involving various organs and organ systems. 
homeostasis. the tendency of biological systems to maintain relatively constant conditions in the internal environment while continuously interacting with and adjusting to changes originating within or outside the system. See also balance and equilibrium. adj., adj homeostat´ic.
These conditions remain more or less constant despite changes such as pH or temperature in the outside environment In practice, it comes down to providing a stable environment for the cells of the body 2 The living processes in the cells depend on the activity of enzymes. 