Aspercreme Creme Heat is different than regular Aspercreme. It doesn't have aspirin in it, it only has, menthol as an active ingredient. Menthol is a heat producing substance that causes tingling and a strong odor. Aspercreme is my go-to OTC topical pain reliever. It doesn't smell, it doesn't make you hot, cold, or tingle. If my pain is at a 7/10 it can take it down to a 6/10, once it took me from an 8/10 to a 6/10. It's main ingredient is a type of aspirin, and it works really well for inflammation.
A is for Aspercreme-a review of OTC topical pain relievers. If you are a long-time reader of my blog, a Facebook friend, a Twitter follower, a YouTube subscriber, or know me in person, you may have noticed that I love Aspercreme. Let me state, that I am not being paid for this blog. Aspercreme is my go-to OTC topical pain reliever. It doesn't smell, it doesn't make you hot, cold, or tingle. If my pain is at a 7/10 it can take it down to a 6/10, once it took me from an 8/10 to a 6/10. It's main ingredient is a type of aspirin, and it works really well for inflammation.
It is very important to inform your doctor or pharmacist first prior to using Aspercreme cream since some medical condition can intermingle with Aspercreme use. For instance: 1  Pregnant women should be very cautious in using Aspercreme and it is a must to contact your physician before using this product. 2  Lactating or breastfeeding mothers should also use this product with precaution. 3  Precaution should also be taken when using Aspercreme to children below 12 years of age.
1 If prone to allergic reaction from aspirin or salicylate, consult a doctor before using. 2  If redness is present,discontinue use and consult a doctor. 3  If condition worsens or if pain persists for more than 7 days or clears up and occurs again within a few days, discontinue use and consult a doctor. 4  For external use only. Comments about Aspercreme Pain Relieving Creme, 5 oz : I just Rub it on a area that have Arthritis and also Have Cramps and Spasm..it really helps me..just the people who take aspirin and or allergice to salycilic Acid, have to try it and also ask your doctor abut those issues.
Add to my Topics | View 3 Posts in Aspercreme. Aspercreme with aloe is an odor-free rub that safely relieves pain. Unlike aspirin, which goes throughout your body, Aspercreme pinpoints its soothing, massaging relief right where you hurt. When you rub Aspercreme in, it penetrates quickly, deeply into painful areas, relieving pain without aspirin and without burning. Aspercreme brings calming, relaxing relief that lasts for hours. Long-lasting relief during the day when you’re active; long-lasting relief at night when you want to sleep. Aspercreme is odor-free, greaseless and stainless, and contains soothing aloe.
Does one 300 milligram pill of aspirin contain one aspirin molecule that does all the healing work or are there millions of molecules in this one pill? Get help from a doctor now ›. No: Topamax is a newer anticonvulsant medication that blocks voltage-gated sodium ion channels. It is also used in migraine prevention treatment. Ask your doctor for more information.
Aspercreme is a clinically proven topical salicylate cream (Trolamine Salicylate 10%) used for relief of minor aches such as in arthritis, simple back pain, strains and joint & muscle pains. Aspercreme has an anti-inflammatory effect, reducing the swelling and inflammation in the affected muscles and joints. It diffuses and infuses quickly into the painful areas, and it has deep-penetrating action resulting in long-lasting relief. Aspercreme is manufactured by Chattem, Inc. a Sanofi Company. For instance: 1  Pregnant women should be very cautious in using Aspercreme and it is a must to contact your physician before using this product. 2  Lactating or breastfeeding mothers should also use this product with precaution. 3  Precaution should also be taken when using Aspercreme to children below 12 years of age.
Get help from a doctor now ›. Milligrams: The dosage has nothing to do with the number of molecules. It is a measurement of the amount of medicine in that pill. ...Read more. Get help from a doctor now ›. No: Topamax is a newer anticonvulsant medication that blocks voltage-gated sodium ion channels. It is also used in migraine prevention treatment. Ask your doctor for more information.
The following topical products are listed as they contain forms of salicylates. While these products are not ingested through the mouth, certain ingredients may be absorbed through the skin and thereforea potential risk where Reye's Syndrome is concerned. Be sure to check ingredient labels. These products are not ingested and as such, not required to carry the aspirin warning. To date no Reye's Syndrome case has been confirmed to have been caused by a topical product; but 5% of confirmed Reye's Syndrome cases list cause as unknown.