On the other hand, Attrition wounds are caused by rubbing or friction like grinding of the teeth. 4. Abrasion occurs when one rock hit another surface. Attrition can be termed as a form of river or coastal erosion where the surface is washed away. There is also another meaning to attrition. Attrition also refers to a staff reduction in companies through usual process like resignation or retirement. Summary. 1. Abrasion is restricted to superficial destruction; attrition is not limited to such destruction. 2.
One can come across many differences between Abrasion and attrition. In geological terms, Abrasion refers to the wearing or destruction of the surface of particulates like in the process of sediment transportation. On the other hand, attrition refers to the extensive reduction or winnowing of the entire particulates. There is also another meaning to attrition. Attrition also refers to a staff reduction in companies through usual process like resignation or retirement. Summary. 1. Abrasion is restricted to superficial destruction; attrition is not limited to such destruction. 2.
On the other hand, Attrition wounds are caused by rubbing or friction like grinding of the teeth. There is also another meaning to attrition. Attrition also refers to a staff reduction in companies through usual process like resignation or retirement. Summary. 1. Abrasion is restricted to superficial destruction; attrition is not limited to such destruction. 2.
abrasion-the wearing down of rock particles by friction due to water or wind or ice. attrition, detrition, grinding. rubbing, friction-the resistance encountered when one body is moved in contact with another. abrasion. n. 1. the process of scraping or wearing down by friction. 2. a scraped area or spot; graze. 3. (Physical Geography) geography the effect of mechanical erosion of rock, esp a river bed, by rock fragments scratching and scraping it; wearing down.
Attrition is sorrow for one's sins that arrises from reasons other than love of God. If it is forced, someone is making you feel sorrow for your sins, but not for the actual a … ct of the sin, but because you are sorry that you were caught. It's difficult for a child, for example, to learn true attrition. For example, a child lies to his parent and is caught. The parent punishes the lie. The child cries, but not because he feels sorrow for the lie but because he does not like the punishment. In this context, Attrition is associated with the Catholic concept of imperfect contrition.   In the context of warfare, forced attrition refers to the slow depletion of one's fighting strength, usually due to outside forces beyond the control of the leader of the fighting force.
Please try again later. Published on Sep 14, 2012. This is the second GCSE geography help video, this is going to form part of a series of short videos to help you in geography. This video is on Erosional processes,Attrition and Solution, and is part of the rivers topic
The sea shapes the coastal landscape. Coastal erosion is the wearing away and breaking up of rock along the coast. Destructive waves erode the coastline in a number of ways: 1  Hydraulic action. 2  Air may become trapped in joints and cracks on a cliff face. 3  When a wave breaks, the trapped air is compressed which weakens the cliff and causes erosion. 4  Abrasion. 1 Air may become trapped in joints and cracks on a cliff face. 2  When a wave breaks, the trapped air is compressed which weakens the cliff and causes erosion. 3  Abrasion. 4  Bits of rock and sand in waves grind down cliff surfaces like sandpaper.
Attrition is sorrow for one's sins that arrises from reasons other than love of God. If it is forced, someone is making you feel sorrow for your sins, but not for the actual a … ct of the sin, but because you are sorry that you were caught. It's difficult for a child, for example, to learn true attrition. 
2. abrasion-erosion by friction. attrition, corrasion, detrition. eating away, eroding, erosion, wearing, wearing away - (geology) the mechanical process of wearing or grinding something down (as by particles washing over it). abrasion. n. 1. the process of scraping or wearing down by friction. 2. a scraped area or spot; graze. 3. (Physical Geography) geography the effect of mechanical erosion of rock, esp a river bed, by rock fragments scratching and scraping it; wearing down.