The Canadian Shield is an example of a geological shield that is form below the Earth's crust and pushed to the surface as molten rock. This article describes the history of the Canadian Shield and the material contain therein. 1  The Fluid Earth. The volcanic creation of the Canadian Shield took place during the Earth’s earliest geologic era, the Precambrian, which includes the earliest 80% of Earth’s existence. The Precambrian era ranges from about 5 billion to 570 million years ago. This process continues today in such places as Hawaii
The Canadian Shield region of Canada is a big region. It is the largest sub-region in the northern region of the country. It is 4.8-billon square km in area. It is located in … northeast Alberta, northern Saskatchewan, northern Manitoba, southern N.W.T, Ontario (except for the peninsula), Quebec and Labrador. Split and merge into it. Answer by Diana Christian. Confidence votes 92. Canadian Shield was formed when 2 tectonics plates collided, when they collided, folding occurred. The plate that was forced down, melted and rose back to the surface to cool down over time. These rocks (that were cooled down) eventually came to be known as the Canadian Shield
The Canadian Shield is the largest landform region in Canada; it covers most of Canada and much of the United States. This region contains some of the oldest rocks in the world (3.96 billion years old). 
The Canadian Shield is a physiographic division, consisting of five smaller physiographic provinces, the Laurentian Upland, Kazan Region, Davis, Hudson, and James. The lowlands of the Canadian Shield have a very dense soil that is not suitable for forestation, but it also contains many marshes and bogs. The rest of the region has coarse soil that does not retain moisture well and is frozen with permafrost year round. Forests are not as dense in the north.
The North American craton is the bedrock forming the heart of the North American continent and the Canadian Shield is the largest exposed part of the craton's bedrock. The Canadian Shield is part of an ancient continent called Arctica, which was formed about 2.5 billion years ago during the Neoarchean era. It was split into Greenland, Laurentia, Scotland, Siberia, and East Antarctica and is now roughly situated in the Arctic around the current North Pole. The lowlands of the Canadian Shield have a very dense soil that is not suitable for forestation, but it also contains many marshes and bogs. The rest of the region has coarse soil that does not retain moisture well and is frozen with permafrost year round. Forests are not as dense in the north.
The Canadian Shield is amongst the oldest on earth, with regions dating 2.5 - 3.5 billion years. The multitude of rivers and lakes in the entire region is caused by the watersheds of the area being so young and in a state of sorting themselves out with the added effect of post-glacial rebound. The lowlands of the Canadian Shield have a very dense soil that is not suitable for forestation, but it also contains many marshes and bogs. The rest of the region has coarse soil that does not retain moisture well and is frozen with permafrost year round. Forests are not as dense in the north.