Point mutations are single base changes, that do not affect the reading frame; that is, the mutation only makes a single change in a single codon, and everything else is undisturbed. There are three types of point mutation: 1  Silent Mutation. 
Of the three types of point mutations the most harmful are insertions and deletions. They result in what is known as a frameshift mutation. When a nucleotide base is either inserted or deleted it disrupts the amino acids coded for from the site of the mutation on to the end of the gene. 
Mutations can also be caused by exposure to specific chemicals or radiation. These agents cause the DNA to break down. This is not necessarily unnatural  even in the most isolated and pristine environments, DNA breaks down. Nevertheless, when the cell repairs the DNA, it might not do a perfect job of the repair. 1 Most of the mutations that we think matter to evolution are naturally-occurring.. 2  For example, when a cell divides, it makes a copy of its DNA  and sometimes the copy is not quite perfect. 3  That small difference from the original DNA sequence is a mutation.
DNA and Mutations : The causes of mutations. 1. DNA fails to copy accurately. Most of the mutations that we think matter to evolution are naturally-occurring.. For example, when a cell divides, it makes a copy of its DNA  and sometimes the copy is not quite perfect. That small difference from the original DNA sequence is a mutation.
Mutation can result in several different types of change in sequences. Mutations in genes can either have no effect, alter the product of a gene, or prevent the gene from functioning properly or completely. 1 Missense mutations or nonsynonymous mutations are types of point mutations where a single nucleotide is changed to cause substitution of a different amino acid. 2  This in turn can render the resulting protein nonfunctional.
Mutations can also be caused by exposure to specific chemicals or radiation. These agents cause the DNA to break down. This is not necessarily unnatural  even in the most isolated and pristine environments, DNA breaks down. Nevertheless, when the cell repairs the DNA, it might not do a perfect job of the repair. The causes of mutations. 1. DNA fails to copy accurately. Most of the mutations that we think matter to evolution are naturally-occurring.. For example, when a cell divides, it makes a copy of its DNA  and sometimes the copy is not quite perfect.
A gene mutation is a permanent alteration in the DNA sequence that makes up a gene, such that the sequence differs from what is found in most people. Mutations range in size; they can affect anywhere from a single DNA building block (base pair) to a large segment of a chromosome that includes multiple genes. Acquired (or somatic) mutations occur at some time during a person’s life and are present only in certain cells, not in every cell in the body. These changes can be caused by environmental factors such as ultraviolet radiation from the sun, or can occur if a mistake is made as DNA copies itself during cell division.
Types of mutations. In order for a mutation to be inherited, it must occur in the genetic material of a sex cell. It is likely that most sex cells contain gene mutations of some sort. It is now thought that the frequency of new mutations in humans is about 1 for every 10,000 genes per generation
In some cases, the mutation occurs in a person’s egg or sperm cell but is not present in any of the person’s other cells. In other cases, the mutation occurs in the fertilized egg shortly after the egg and sperm cells unite. Acquired (or somatic) mutations occur at some time during a person’s life and are present only in certain cells, not in every cell in the body. These changes can be caused by environmental factors such as ultraviolet radiation from the sun, or can occur if a mistake is made as DNA copies itself during cell division.