Scientifically this is the maximum limit for human beings. We cannot gain more muscle than this per week. The only exception to this MAXIMUM rule of 454 grams per week for ANYONE is drugs, such as steroids and HGH (human growth hormone). The scientifically calculated average of 1 pound of muscle gain per week MAXIMUM for anyone includes this. But like I said, realistically you will be lucky to achieve 0.75 pounds of muscle gain per week. So, for example, if you're 150 pounds, and you want to be ripped at 185 pounds, that's 35 pounds have muscle to gain. (if you're only 5'9 - 185 is very ripped) you can only gain 0.75 pounds per week that's 35/0.75, which is 46 weeks, over 11 months, or just under 1 year
There are so many people saying I've gained 15,20 pounds of muscle this month or similar. Also various books that claim they reveal the secrets of working out and to gaining muscle mass fast, that promise crazy gains. So I'm wondering, how much muscle could you really gain in a month (without juice) . I mean most people gain 15-20 pounds of muscle per year.
My question is how much PURE muscle gain you can gain in 1 month naturally. All the research says 2lb per month on average. Or 25lb per year if you use an effective training program supported by the right diet. Obviously, your age, genetics, bodytype, training experience, and work ethic will affect your gains. The average amount of lean muscle you can gain naturally is 2lb/month. And keep in mind that the stronger you get, the harder it is to add muscle to your frame. This 2lb/month explains why you can NEVER look like those guys on the cover of muscle magazines within 3 months.
The point is that you need to be realistic with your genetics, where you are at and where you want to be. Having said all of that though most of the research does say that you can gain 2 pounds of muscle in a month. So a 1/2 pound muscle gain per week is really a good number to shoot for. If you are a beginner it isn’t totally uncommon to see up to a 1 pound per week gain, but don’t get too excited, that will slow down once you approach your body’s full potential. One of the first questions a beginning weight lifter may have is how much muscle can you gain in a month. Unfortunately for many, the answers given are completely over exaggerated and completely not true.
You don't give a damn about fat gains. If you eat enough to gain 50 lbs in a month you will gain more muscle then when you eat enough to gain 2 lbs. There is no point where it is: all muscle till here the next lb is pure fat. But 2 lbs is about what you can gain with minimal/reasonable fat gain. Bulkin For Life. But 2 lbs is about what you can gain with minimal/reasonable fat gain. No lmao otherwise everyone would be 250lbs with a ton of muscle everyone is different but just aim for a good 4-6lbs per month and thats pushing it, but aim for that.
My opinion is that you could gain around 2 pounds of muscle per month with a perfect diet and exercise routine. Since nobody will have a perfect diet, I'd say a person who has a decent diet and decent workout plan will gain around 1.5 pounds of muscle per month. Also various books that claim they reveal the secrets of working out and to gaining muscle mass fast, that promise crazy gains. So I'm wondering, how much muscle could you really gain in a month (without juice) . I mean most people gain 15-20 pounds of muscle per year.
So a 150 pound beginner might be able to gain 1.5-2.25 pounds of muscle per month (18-27 pounds per year). After a year, he’s now an intermediate at 170 pounds and might be capable of gaining 0.85-1.7 lbs per month (10-20 pounds per year; I’d consider 20 lbs. an exceptional gain). 