When you have rheumatoid arthritis, it’s tough to get all the nutrition you need. Prescription medications may interfere with your body’s ability to absorb nutrients. Plus, rheumatoid arthritis pain can turn cooking into a grueling chore. All of this makes adequate calcium and vitamin D – nutrients needed to build and maintain strong bones – even more important in a rheumatoid arthritis diet. Too little vitamin D may even increase your risk of developing RA symptoms in the first place, according to a 2010 Boston University study.
Until they do, planning your diet is simple. People with RA should eat a healthy diet, just like anyone else, says Ruchi Jain, MD, a rheumatologist at Rush University Medical Center in Chicago. Aim for: 1  Lots of whole grains, vegetables, and fruits. 2  They should make up two-thirds of your plate.
As a result of menopause or steroid treatment, some people with RA may not get enough of certain vitamins and minerals. The most common deficiencies are in folic acid, vitamins C, D, B6, B12 and E, calcium, magnesium, selenium and zinc. Research has shown that people with RA have low levels of selenium, a mineral found in whole-grain wheat products and shellfish such as oysters and crab. It contains antioxidants, which are believed to help control inflammation.
A rheumatoid arthritis diet that involves plenty of multi vitamins and minerals are highly recommended. Increasing the intake of vitamin and minerals can definitely help to relieve the symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis. The consumption of vitamins and minerals can be increased through either diet or supplement or both. The effect of vitamin and minerals deficiency, especially for rheumatoid arthritis patients, will have a very serious implication to the health of the joints. Conclusion. All in all, vitamins and minerals are powerful antioxidants that help to improve the overall well being of rheumatoid arthritis patients. A rheumatoid arthritis diet that includes multiple vitamins and minerals will definitely reduce the inflammation caused by
Advertisement. People with rheumatoid arthritis (RA), a chronic, painful, inflammatory disease that affects joints and connective tissue, are constantly seeking to ease its symptoms with food and dietary supplements. Research has shown that people with RA have low levels of selenium, a mineral found in whole-grain wheat products and shellfish such as oysters and crab. It contains antioxidants, which are believed to help control inflammation.
The best way to ensure a healthful rheumatoid arthritis diet is to enjoy foods rich in lean proteins, whole grains, fruits and vegetables, Dr. Jolly says. But if you have RA and take medications such as steroids and NSAIDs, you may have digestive problems and not eat properly. All of this makes adequate calcium and vitamin D – nutrients needed to build and maintain strong bones – even more important in a rheumatoid arthritis diet. Too little vitamin D may even increase your risk of developing RA symptoms in the first place, according to a 2010 Boston University study.
Get it from: Dairy products are a good source of calcium for a rheumatoid arthritis diet. An 8-ounce glass of skim milk has 35% of your daily requirement. Other calcium options include dark green leafy vegetables, sardines, wild salmon and calcium-added foods like tofu or fortified orange juice. All of this makes adequate calcium and vitamin D – nutrients needed to build and maintain strong bones – even more important in a rheumatoid arthritis diet. Too little vitamin D may even increase your risk of developing RA symptoms in the first place, according to a 2010 Boston University study.
5 Replies. The most commonly deficient vitamins for people dealing with rheumatoid arthritis are vitamin C, vitamin B6, folate (vitamin B9), vitamin D, vitamin B12 and vitamin E. It is preferable to get these vitamins in your diet however if that is not possible then supplements can be used. 1 Folate (Folic Acid/ Vitamin B9) is not stored in the body so it is important to get a daily dose. 2  Folate deficiency can cause anemia, weight loss, loss of appetite, and diarrhea. 3  Folic acid is used to manufacture red blood cells. 4  It can be found in leafy green vegetables such as spinach and turnips greens.
1 Other vitamins and minerals. 2  RA makes you more likely to have low levels of vitamins B6, B12, C, D, and E, and magnesium, selenium, and zinc. 3  Ask your doctor if you might need more of these from foods or supplements. 4  Folic acid. People with RA should eat a healthy diet, just like anyone else, says Ruchi Jain, MD, a rheumatologist at Rush University Medical Center in Chicago. Aim for: 1  Lots of whole grains, vegetables, and fruits. 2  They should make up two-thirds of your plate.
So even if you eat lots of veggies on your rheumatoid arthritis diet, you may also need to eat fortified foods or take a vitamin. 2. Calcium and Vitamin D for Strong Bones Steroids commonly used to control RA inflammation may put you at risk for osteoporosis (thinning of bone tissue and loss of bone density). All of this makes adequate calcium and vitamin D – nutrients needed to build and maintain strong bones – even more important in a rheumatoid arthritis diet. Too little vitamin D may even increase your risk of developing RA symptoms in the first place, according to a 2010 Boston University study.