The term Baroque is generally used by music historians to describe a broad range of styles from a wide geographic region, mostly in Europe, composed over a period of approximately 150 years. The negative use of the word comes from a description by Charles de Brosses of the ornate and heavily ornamented architecture of the Pamphili Palace in Rome. Although the term was applied to architecture and art criticism in the 19th century, it wasn't until the 20th century that the term baroque was applied to music.
Baroque music forms a major portion of the classical music canon, being widely studied, performed, and listened to. The negative use of the word comes from a description by Charles de Brosses of the ornate and heavily ornamented architecture of the Pamphili Palace in Rome. Although the term was applied to architecture and art criticism in the 19th century, it wasn't until the 20th century that the term baroque was applied to music.
The Baroque (US /bəˈroʊk/ or UK /bəˈrɒk/) is often thought of as a period of artistic style that used exaggerated motion and clear, easily interpreted detail to produce drama, tension, exuberance, and grandeur in sculpture, painting, architecture, literature, dance, theater, and music. The term Baroque is also used to designate the style of music composed during a period that overlaps with that of Baroque art, but usually encompasses a slightly later period.
During the Baroque period, composers experimented with musical contrasts that differed greatly from the music of the Renaissance. They used what is known as a melodic soprano line supported by a bass line. Music became homophonic, meaning it was based on one melody with harmonic support coming from a keyboard player. From the toccata emerged what is known as prelude and fugue, an instrumental music beginning with a short free style piece (prelude) followed by a contrapuntal piece using imitative counterpoint (fugue). Other music forms of the Baroque period are the chorale prelude, Mass and oratorio,
Baroque music belongs to its own period, the Baroque period (1600-1760). It was followed by the Classical period (1750-1830). … Baroque music and Classical music differ in terms of music theory, instrumentation, and key people. The Baroque music era was the era of some of the world's greatest composers, including Handel, Bach, Purcell, Monteverdi, Cavalli and Rameau. It was written to uplift and glor … ify the soul, qualities which later became superseded by the Romantic style of music.
2. Counterpoint in the Baroque Period: Definition, Harmony & Examples The use of counterpoint is a significant characteristic of Baroque period music. In this lesson, learn how to define counterpoint, how it was used during the Baroque period, and hear popular examples. 3. A fugue is a complex style of composition that was developed during the Baroque period. In this lesson, learn how fugues are made, what characteristic qualities make up the style, and how J.S. Bach influenced the style, and listen to examples.
Baroque was before the Classical period from the 1600s-1700s. Some composers include Bach, Telemann, Pachelbel, Purcell, Vivaldi, and Handel. Many woodwinds and strings, imagi … ne dancing in a castle, that would be baroque music. The harpsichord was a very popular instrument at the time. The Baroque music era was the era of some of the world's greatest composers, including Handel, Bach, Purcell, Monteverdi, Cavalli and Rameau. It was written to uplift and glor … ify the soul, qualities which later became superseded by the Romantic style of music.
Baroque music expanded the size, range, and complexity of instrumental performance, and also established opera, cantata, oratorio, concerto, and sonata as musical genres. Many musical terms and concepts from this era are still in use today. The negative use of the word comes from a description by Charles de Brosses of the ornate and heavily ornamented architecture of the Pamphili Palace in Rome. Although the term was applied to architecture and art criticism in the 19th century, it wasn't until the 20th century that the term baroque was applied to music.
The Baroque period in music is often described as ornate and intense. Music from this period often features emotions expressed through repeating melodies and quick changes in volume, pace and other aspects. 3. A fugue is a complex style of composition that was developed during the Baroque period. In this lesson, learn how fugues are made, what characteristic qualities make up the style, and how J.S. Bach influenced the style, and listen to examples.