A refractory material is one that retains its strength at high temperatures. ASTM C71 defines refractories as non-metallic materials having those chemical and physical properties that make them applicable for structures, or as components of systems, that are exposed to environments above 1,000 째F (811 K; 538 째C). Acidic refractories consist of mostly acidic materials like alumina (Al 2 O 3) and silica (SiO 2). They are generally not attacked or affected by acidic materials, but easily affected by basic materials. They include substances such as silica, alumina, and fire clay brick refractories.
Definition. Material that can withstand very high temperatures 3000째C or more without degrading or softening. Refractory materials include certain ceramics and superalloys, and are used in heat insulation of furnaces, jet and rocket engines, and parts of space vehicles such as the shuttle.
Refractory metals are a class of metals that are extraordinarily resistant to heat and wear. The expression is mostly used in the context of materials science, metallurgy and engineering. The definition of which elements belong to this group differs. 
Refractory materials are used in linings for furnaces, kilns, incinerators and reactors. They are also used to make crucibles and moulds for casting glass and metals and for surfacing flame deflector systems for rocket launch structures. Acidic refractories consist of mostly acidic materials like alumina (Al 2 O 3) and silica (SiO 2). They are generally not attacked or affected by acidic materials, but easily affected by basic materials. They include substances such as silica, alumina, and fire clay brick refractories.
A commercial boiler must be durable in order to handle chemicals, heat and pressure. One component that lends strength to the equipment is the boiler refractory. The refractory is the heat-resistant material that lines high-temperature furnaces and reactors and other processing units, including commercial boilers.
Refractory is a type of material which is designed for use in high heat environments such as kilns and furnaces. These materials should be chemically and physically stable at higher temperature. They must be resistant to the thermal shock. Report Abuse. Refractory material is one that retains and maintains its strength at high temperatures without softening or deformation in shape. The most important chemical composition of refractory is the oxides of aluminum, silicon and magnesium. Another oxide usually used in refractory is the oxide of calcium.
1. Med not responding to treatment. 2. (of a material) able to withstand high temperatures without fusion or decomposition. 3. a material, such as fireclay or alumina, that is able to withstand high temperatures: used to line furnaces, kilns, etc.
Refractory materials can be used to fill gaps and openings in a boiler, or to line parts of the boiler. They can also protect wall tubes that are inside fluidized bed, cyclone-fired or refuse-derived fired boilers. Boiler refractories are required for heating applications above 1000째F. One component that lends strength to the equipment is the boiler refractory. The refractory is the heat-resistant material that lines high-temperature furnaces and reactors and other processing units, including commercial boilers.
Best Answer: Refractory materials retain their strength at high temperatures. They are used to make crucibles and to make refractory linings, which line furnaces, kilns and incinerators. The oxides of magnesium (magnesite) and calcium (lime) are the most important refractory materials, though fireclay is widely used as well. Report Abuse. Refractory material is one that retains and maintains its strength at high temperatures without softening or deformation in shape. The most important chemical composition of refractory is the oxides of aluminum, silicon and magnesium. Another oxide usually used in refractory is the oxide of calcium.