Discussion of the University of Arizona's Admissions Standards: Admission to the University of Arizona isn't prohibitively selective, and most students with decent grades and test scores have a very good chance of getting in. In the graph above, the blue and green dots represent accepted students. 
1 Complete your application through the American Medical College Application Service (AMCAS). 2  Designate the Tucson campus of the University of Arizona College of Medicine. 3  Complete your secondary application. 4  You will receive a secondary application if you meet our minimum application requirements. 1 Designate the Tucson campus of the University of Arizona College of Medicine. 2  Complete your secondary application. 3  You will receive a secondary application if you meet our minimum application requirements. 4  Submit letters of recommendation. 5  These must be submitted before your interview day.
The average GPA at University of Arizona is 3.4. (Most schools use a weighted GPA out of 4.0, though some report an unweighted GPA. With a GPA of 3.4, University of Arizona requires you to be around average in your high school class. You'll need a mix of A's and B's, and very few C's. If you have a lower GPA, you can compensate with harder courses like AP or IB classes
University of Arizona GPA Requirements. Many schools specify a minimum GPA requirement, but this is often just the bare minimum to submit an application without immediately getting rejected. The GPA requirement that really matters is the GPA you need for a real chance of getting in. (Most schools use a weighted GPA out of 4.0, though some report an unweighted GPA. With a GPA of 3.4, University of Arizona requires you to be around average in your high school class. You'll need a mix of A's and B's, and very few C's.
GPA requirement. While each of ASU's graduate programs has unique admission standards, ASU has set minimum standards for admission to master's, certificate and doctoral programs. Bachelor's Degree Requirement.
Requirements. There is no ideal applicant to the University of Arizona College of Medicine. We look for exceptional applicants with a variety of personal and professional strengths, who will contribute to our diverse and well-rounded student body.
The school will have their expected requirements for GPA and SAT/ACT scores. If you meet their requirements, you're almost certain to get an offer of admission. But if you don't meet University of Arizona's requirements, you'll be one of the unlucky few people who gets rejected. (Most schools use a weighted GPA out of 4.0, though some report an unweighted GPA. With a GPA of 3.4, University of Arizona requires you to be around average in your high school class. You'll need a mix of A's and B's, and very few C's.
Admission Requirements. Every program at the University of Arizona has its own set of specific requirements, in addition to the Graduate College requirements outlined on this website. Beyond the award of a bachelors degree, a minimum grade-point average (GPA) of 3.00 based on a 4.00 scale, where 3.00 represents a B and 4.00 an A, is required for admission to the Graduate College. Click here to access more detailed GPA r
Admissions Requirements. If you are a US Citizen, applying to the Masters in MIS program, and are interested in working in cybersecurity with a U.S. Government agency our AZSecure Scholarship for Service Fellowship Program may be right for you. This two year program will provide a full ride scholarships to select individuals with the interest and aptitude for a career in cybersecurity. For more information, please click here. Requirements for admission into the Masters in MIS program.
Follow the steps below to complete your transfer application and fulfill all ASU admission requirements: 1. Complete the admission application to transfer to ASU. You can complete the admission application to transfer to ASU online. To ensure a smooth transition and improve opportunities for financial assistance, you should start the transfer application process one year prior to your planned enrollment date at ASU. 