Phthalates are a group of chemicals used to soften and increase the flexibility of plastic and vinyl. Polyvinyl chloride is made softer and more flexible by the addition of phthalates. Phthalates are used in hundreds of consumer products. Phthalates are used in cosmetics and personal care products, including perfume, hair spray, soap, shampoo, nail polish, and skin moisturizers. They are used in consumer products such as flexible plastic and vinyl toys, shower curtains, wallpaper, vinyl miniblinds, food packaging, and plastic wrap. You can be exposed to low levels of phthalates through air, water, or food. You can be exposed to phthalates if you use cosmetics, personal care products, cleaning products, or other plastic and vinyl products that contain them.
Phthalates are used widely in polyvinyl chloride plastics, which are used to make products such as plastic packaging film and sheets, garden hoses, inflatable toys, blood-storage containers, medical tubing, and some children's toys. 1 Research has found that adult women have higher levels of urinary metabolites than men for those phthalates that are used in soaps, body washes, shampoos, cosmetics, and similar personal care products.
DEP is the only phthalate still periodically used in cosmetics, and its use is very limited; in fact, many personal care product manufacturers are discontinuing its use as an ingredient. Other phthalates, such as Di(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (DEHP), have no history of use in cosmetics and personal care products. Scientific Facts: Dimethyl Phthalate, Diethyl Phthalate and Dibutyl Phthalate are prepared by reacting phthalic acid with methyl alcohol, ethyl alcohol and butyl alcohol, respectively. These ingredients should not be confused with Di(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (DEHP), a compound not used in cosmetics and personal care products.
Phthalates are plasticizers used in everything from children’s toys to cosmetics. When used in toys and other vinyl plastics these chemicals add flexibility and durability. Phthalates are used in cosmetics and other household items (laundry detergent, cleaning products, air fresheners) to hold scent and color. How to avoid phthalates in cosmetics. In cosmetics phthalates are commonly used as fragrance. If you see the term “fragrance”, “perfume” or “parfum” on a product label it should raise a red flag. I recently saw an air freshener commercial touting their product as “Made with 100% fragrance”.
FDA has received a number of inquiries on the safety of phthalates, which are used in a variety of cosmetics as well as other consumer products. Here are answers to questions consumers often ask about these ingredients. This survey was intended to monitor trends in the use of phthalates in cosmetics, not as a comprehensive analysis of all cosmetics on the market. The law does not require cosmetic firms to file their formulations with FDA.
Some phthalates are used as solvents (dissolving agents) for other materials. They are used in hundreds of products, such as vinyl flooring, adhesives, detergents, lubricating oils, automotive plastics, plastic clothes (raincoats), and personal-care products (soaps, shampoos, hair sprays, and nail polishes). 1 Research has found that adult women have higher levels of urinary metabolites than men for those phthalates that are used in soaps, body washes, shampoos, cosmetics, and similar personal care products.
Use in Cosmetics. Dibutyl phthalate (pronounced thal-ate), or DBP, is used mainly in nail products as a solvent for dyes and as a plasticizer that prevents nail polishes from becoming brittle. Phthalates are also used as fragrance ingredients in many other cosmetics, but consumers won't find these listed on the label. Related Ingredients. Other phthalates are widely used as fragrance ingredients in cosmetics — in particular diethyl phthalate (DEP). DEP is suspected of interfering with hormone function (endocrine disruption), causing reproductive and developmental problems among other health effects.
However, women may be at higher risk for potential adverse health effects of phthalates due to increased cosmetic use. Diethyl phthalate and dibutyl phthalate are especially ubiquitous in cosmetics and personal care products. Phthalates are used in a large variety of products, from enteric coatings of pharmaceutical pills and nutritional supplements to viscosity control agents, gelling agents, film formers, stabilizers, dispersants, lubricants, binders, emulsifying agents, and suspending agents.
read more. About DIBUTYL PHTHALATE: The State of California and other authoritative bodies have classified dibutyl phthalate (DBP) as a reproductive and developmental toxicant, and the European Union banned the use of this ingredient in cosmetics and personal care products. 