Full Definition of OBLITERATE. transitive verb. 1. a: to remove utterly from recognition or memory b: to remove from existence: destroy utterly all trace, indication, or significance of. 2. : to make undecipherable or imperceptible by obscuring or wearing away. 3. : cancel 4. — oblit·er·a·tion \-ˌbli-tə-ˈrā-shən\ noun. 
this substance's function is to change the surface tension of the fluid in the lungs-therefore decreasing it's force. the surface tension tends to shrink the lungs and can cause the lungs to collapse. so a premature baby wouldn't be able to breath properly. Penile necrosis requiring penectomy complicating recto-urethral ... by Kinahan, John; Pai, Howard; Martens, Mildred; Gray, Jason; Biberdorf, Darren; Mihailovic, Alex; McAu / Canadian Urological Association Journal (CUAJ).
The other key term in the above definition is the word organized that refers to a tight, ball-like formation. The macrophages in these formations are typically so tightly clustered that the borders of individual cells are difficult to appreciate. Loosely dispersed macrophages are not considered to be granulomas. In pathology, a granuloma is an organized collection of macrophages. In medical practice, doctors occasionally use the term granuloma loosely to mean a small nodule. Since a small nodule can represent anything from a harmless nevus to a malignant tumor, this usage of the term is not very specific.
Stroma: The supportive framework of an organ (or gland or other structure), usually composed of connective tissue. The stroma is distinct from the parenchyma, which consists of the key functional elements of that organ. The stroma of the thyroid gland is the connective tissue that supports the lobules and follicles of the thyroid gland. The Greek word stroma means anything spread out for sitting or lying upon, essentially a mat. The stroma in anatomy is thus the supporting tissue.
Medical Definition of HYALINIZATION. : the process of becoming hyaline or of undergoing hyaline degeneration; also: the resulting state.
A. the cause of Hyaline Membrane disease is pre-mature birth. while the fetus develop, about in the 29th week a substance called surfactant is created in the lungs. Renal solitary fibrous tumour: A rare pathological entity by Dong, Biao; Zhang, Jianjian; Wang, Gang; Zhai, Xiuyu; Fu, Yaowen; Zhou, Honglan; Wang, Yuantao / Canadian Urological Association Journal (CUAJ).
hyalinization. Crooke's hyalinization degeneration of corticotrophs of the pituitary gland, in which they lose their specific granulations and the cytoplasm becomes hyalinized; seen in Cushing's syndrome and Addison's disease. (hī′ə-lĭn′ĭ-zā′shən). Penile necrosis requiring penectomy complicating recto-urethral ... by Kinahan, John; Pai, Howard; Martens, Mildred; Gray, Jason; Biberdorf, Darren; Mihailovic, Alex; McAu / Canadian Urological Association Journal (CUAJ).
Desmoplasia refers to growth of dense connective tissue or stroma. This growth is characterized by low cellularity with hyalinized or sclerotic stroma and disorganized blood vessel infiltration. This growth is called a desmoplastic response and occurs as result of injury or neoplasia. In medicine, desmoplasia is the growth of fibrous or connective tissue. It is also called desmoplastic reaction to emphasize that it is secondary to an insult. Desmoplasia may occur around a neoplasm, causing dense fibrosis around the tumor, or scar tissue (adhesions) within the abdomen after abdominal surgery.