Trans-fats are created when processed vegetable oils are hydrogenated or partially hydrogenated. Food sources include candy, cakes, pies, cookies, pastries, crackers, biscuits, cereals, deep fried foods, fatty meat from beef and sheep, soups, margarine and some salad dressings. Saturated fats are mainly found in animal foods, such as beef, pork, lamb, butter, cheese, cream, ice cream and other full-fat and low-fat dairy products.
Foods from animal sources that are rich in saturated fats include beef, beef fat, veal, lamb, pork, lard, poultry fat, butter, cream, milk, cheeses and other dairy products made from whole and 2 percent milk. All these foods also contain dietary cholesterol. Foods from plant sources that contain saturated fat include coconut, coconut oil, palm oil and palm kernel oil (often called tropical oils), and cocoa butter. Because butter is rich in both saturated fat and cholesterol, it's potentially a highly atherogenic food (a food that causes the arteries to be blocked). Most margarine is made from vegetable fat and provides no dietary cholesterol but they contain Trans-fatty acids (TFA).
Healthy and Unhealthy Fats   Three foods that contain fats are: fish, cooking oils, and dairy products, but wait, here's more: There are four kinds of fats: trans fat … s, saturated fats, monounsaturated fats and polyunsaturated fats. Trans fats can increase harmful cholesterol and decrease beneficial cholesterol. Saturated fats are found in animal-based foods and include: red meats, dairy products like ice cream and cheese, and processed meats like bologna and other dairy meats.
There are many foods that contain CSI-fats. For monounsaturated  cis-fats, the foods include: avocados, canola oil, eggs, cashews,  ground beef, bacon and olives. For polyun … saturated cis-fats, they  would include: flaxseed, pine nuts, salmon, smelt, walnuts and  soybeans. Trans fats can increase harmful cholesterol and decrease beneficial cholesterol. Saturated fats are found in animal-based foods and include: red meats, dairy products like ice cream and cheese, and processed meats like bologna and other dairy meats.
Saturated fats occur naturally in many foods. The majority come from animal sources -- meat and dairy (milk fat) such as fatty beef, lamb, pork, poultry with skin, beef fat (tallow), lard, cream, butter, cheese, and other dairy products made from whole or reduced-fat (2%) milk. These foods also contain cholesterol. Many baked goods and fried foods can also contain high levels of saturated fats. Some plant foods, such as palm oil, palm kernel oil and coconut oil, also contain primarily saturated fats but do not contain cholesterol. Trans fats are found in many foods
These fats are liquid at room temperature and found mainly in fatty fish, nuts, seeds and oils from plants. Examples of foods that contain these fats include salmon, trout, herring, avocados, olives, walnuts and liquid vegetable oils such as soybean, corn, safflower, canola, olive and sunflower. Because butter is rich in both saturated fat and cholesterol, it's potentially a highly atherogenic food (a food that causes the arteries to be blocked). Most margarine is made from vegetable fat and provides no dietary cholesterol but they contain Trans-fatty acids (TFA).
Animal-based Fats:   Trans fats are found in foods that contain partially hydrogenated oil or shortening and include: energy bars, many cereals, and many deserts including pies, cakes, and cookies. Trans fats can increase harmful cholesterol and decrease beneficial cholesterol. Saturated fats are found in animal-based foods and include: red meats, dairy products like ice cream and cheese, and processed meats like bologna and other dairy meats.
Trans fat in your food. The manufactured form of trans fat, known as partially hydrogenated oil, is found in a variety of food products, including: 1  Baked goods. 2  Most cakes, cookies, pie crusts and crackers contain shortening, which is usually made from partially hydrogenated vegetable oil. 3  Ready-made frosting is another source of trans fat. The manufactured form of trans fat, known as partially hydrogenated oil, is found in a variety of food products, including: 1  Baked goods. 2  Snacks. 3  Fried food. 4  Refrigerator dough. 5  Creamer and margarine.