A bacteriophage is a virus that preys on bacteria. It infects bacteria by inserting its genetic material into the host cell. To do this, the bacteriophage attaches itself to the surface of the host with tail fibers. Afterward, the genetic material uses the bacteria's replication apparatus to duplicate itself. written by: Vasanth•edited by: dianahardin•updated: 4/15/2011. A bacteriophage is a virus that infects bacteria. The structure of a bacteriophage consists of a head and tail. It contains nucleic acid and proteins.
Transformation is one of three processes by which exogenous genetic material may be introduced into a bacterial cell, the other two being conjugation (transfer of genetic material between two bacterial cells in direct contact) and transduction (injection of foreign DNA by a bacteriophage virus into the host bacterium). In molecular biology, transformation is the genetic alteration of a cell resulting from the direct uptake and incorporation of exogenous genetic material (exogenous DNA) from its surroundings and taken up through the cell membrane(s).
Bacteria transferring DNA with a bacteriophage and bacteria taking DNA from their environment both best describe transduction in bacteria. Bacteria and other microbes plays an important role in environment that is of DECOMPOSERS which acts in the last stage of food chain.
In the lysogenic cycle, the phage's DNA recombines with the bacterial chromosome. Once it has inserted itself, it is known as a prophage. A host cell that carries a prophage has the potential to lyse, thus it is called a lysogenic cell. The image above illustrates both the lytic and lysogenic cycles of a bacteriophage. A bacteriophage is a virus that infects bacteria. Bacteriophages, first discovered around 1915, have played a unique role in viral biology. They are perhaps the best understood viruses, yet at the same time, their structure can be extraordinarily complex
Used with permission. A bacteriophage is a virus that infects bacteria. Bacteriophages, first discovered around 1915, have played a unique role in viral biology. They are perhaps the best understood viruses, yet at the same time, their structure can be extraordinarily complex
Bacteria are generally smaller than the cells of eukaryotes, but larger than viruses. Bacteria are measured in units of length called micrometers, or microns. One millimeter is equal to 1,000 microns; it takes about 25,000 microns to make up one inch (2.5 centimeters). Some bacteria measure only one half a micron. 
DNA material can be transferred between different strains of bacteria, in a process that is called horizontal gene transfer. Some species upon cell death release their DNA to be taken up by other cells, however transformation works best with DNA from closely related species. In molecular biology, transformation is the genetic alteration of a cell resulting from the direct uptake and incorporation of exogenous genetic material (exogenous DNA) from its surroundings and taken up through the cell membrane(s).
The term is derived from bacteria and the Greek: φαγεῖν (phagein), to devour. Bacteriophages are composed of proteins that encapsulate a DNA or RNA genome, and may have relatively simple or elaborate structures. Their genomes may encode as few as four genes, and as many as hundreds of genes. Phages replicate within the bacterium following the injection of their genome into its cytoplasm. Bacteriophages may have a lytic cycle or a lysogenic cycle, and a few viruses are capable of carrying out both. With lytic phages such as the T4 phage, bacterial cells are broken open (lysed) and destroyed after immediate replication of the virion.
Bacteria are prokaryotic organisms that reproduce asexually.  Bacterial reproduction most commonly occurs by a kind of cell  division called binary fission. Binary fission r … esults in the  formation of two bacterial cells that are genetically identical. 4 people found this useful. Bacteria and other microbes plays an important role in environment that is of DECOMPOSERS which acts in the last stage of food chain.