Anglicized form of the Gaelic Niall, which is of disputed meaning. Some believe it is from niadh (a champion); others think it is from neall (néall a). Cloud From A world Of Baby names By Teresa. Norman buy the. book Anglicized form of the Gaelic Niall, which is of disputed meaning. Some believe it is from niadh (a champion); others think it is from neall (néall a). cloud
Origin of the name Neil: Anglicized form of the Gaelic Niall, which is of disputed meaning. Some believe it is from niadh (a champion); others think it is from neall (néall a). Cloud From A world Of Baby names By Teresa. norman Anglicized form of the Gaelic Niall, which is of disputed meaning. Some believe it is from niadh (a champion); others think it is from neall (néall a). cloud
Niall /ni-all/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced NYE-al, NEE-al. It is of Irish and Gaelic origin, and the meaning of Niall is champion. Source form of Neil, used mainly in Ireland. Historical: Niall of the Nine Hostages founded a dynasty of Irish kings. See also Nigel, Niles, and Nyles.
Scottish Meaning: The name Niall is a Scottish baby name. In Scottish the meaning of the name Niall is: Champion. English Meaning: The name Niall is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Niall is: Champion. A dynasty of Irish kings was founded by Niall of the Nine Hostages. Irish Meaning: The name Niall is an Irish baby name. In Irish the meaning of the name Niall is: Champion.
[ 2 syll. nial (l), ni-a- ll ] The baby boy name Niall is pronounced as N IY-aeL †. Niall is largely used in the Celtic, Irish, and Scottish languages. It is derived from Celtic origins. Niall is a variant transcription of the name Neil (Dutch, English, Irish, and Scottish). Niall is rare as a baby boy name. It is not listed in the top 1000. Within the family of boy names directly linked to Niall, Neil was the most widely used in 2012. 
Niall. Meaning of the Irish name Niall. Listen and learn how to pronounce Niall so you can get the correct pronunciation for this Irish boy name. MEANING: The name could come from “”passionate, vehement”” or from nel””a cloud.”” Niall of the Nine Hostages (read the legend) was a fourth-century king of Tara who gained the throne because of a test – he and his brothers had to enter the forest and find their own food and shelter.
Meaning of Niall. Irish name. In Irish, the name Niall means-champion. Other origins for the name Niall include-Irish, Celtic, Scottish, Gaelic, English.The name Niall is a unisex name and can be used for a boy or girl name (male or female). Irish Name Meaning-champion. Origin-Ireland. Alternate Origins-Celtic Scottish Gaelic English.
Celtic Meaning: The name Niall is a Celtic baby name. In Celtic the meaning of the name Niall is: Champion. Gaelic Meaning: The name Niall is a Gaelic baby name. In Gaelic the meaning of the name Niall is: Champion. English Meaning: The name Niall is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Niall is: Champion. A dynasty of Irish kings was founded by Niall of the Nine Hostages. Irish Meaning: The name Niall is an Irish baby name. In Ir
Look up Niall in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. Niall is a male given name of Irish origin, thought to mean champion (derived from the Old Irish word niadh meaning warrior or champion). 