Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease. Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease is a term used to describe the accumulation of fat in the liver of people who drink little or no alcohol. Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease is common and, for most people, causes no signs and symptoms and no complications. But in some people with nonalcoholic fatty liver disease, the fat that accumulates can cause inflammation and scarring in the liver. This more serious form of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease is sometimes called nonalcoholic steatohepatitis.
When not associated with excessive alcohol intake, it is referred to as nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), and is the progressive form of the relatively benign non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. More deposition of fat in the liver is termed steatosis, and together these constitute fatty liver changes. Classically seen in alcoholics as part of alcoholic liver disease, steatohepatitis is also frequently found in people with diabetes and obesity and is related to metabolic syndrome.
Because of the damage, the liver doesn't work as well as it should. NASH can get worse and cause scarring of the liver, which leads to cirrhosis. But the disease doesn't always get worse. NASH is similar to the kind of liver disease that is caused by long-term, heavy drinking.
Steatohepatitis (also known as fatty liver disease) is a type of liver disease, characterized by inflammation of the liver with concurrent fat accumulation in liver (steato- , meaning fat, hepatitis, meaning inflammation of the liver). More deposition of fat in the liver is termed steatosis, and together these constitute fatty liver changes. Classically seen in alcoholics as part of alcoholic liver disease, steatohepatitis is also frequently found in people with diabetes and obesity and is related to metabolic syndrome.
Overview. Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis, or NASH, is a common, often “silent” liver disease. It resembles alcoholic liver disease, but occurs in people who drink little or no alcohol. The major feature in NASH is fat in the liver, along with inflammation and damage
Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) is liver inflammation caused by a buildup of fat in the liver. Many people have a buildup of fat in the liver, and for most people it causes no symptoms and no problems. But in some people, the fat causes inflammation of the liver. Because of the inflammation, the liver doesn't work as well as it should. NASH can get worse and cause scarring of the liver, which leads to cirrhosis.
Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) is liver inflammation and damage caused by a buildup of fat in the liver. It is part of a group of conditions called nonalcoholic fatty liver disease. You may be told you have a fatty liver.. NASH can get worse and cause scarring of the liver, which leads to cirrhosis. But the disease doesn't always get worse. NASH is similar to the kind of liver disease that is caused by long-term, heavy drinking.
Nonalcoholic steatohepatitis: Fatty inflammation of the liver in people who do not abuse alcohol. NASH (nonalcoholic steatohepatitis) tends to occur especially in overweight women with diabetes. It is typically a chronic condition that causes no symptoms or very mild symptoms but can sometimes cause progressive scarring and cirrhosis of the liver. 
1 Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease can be divided into isolated fatty liver in which there is only accumulation of fat, and nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) in which there is fat, inflammation, and damage to liver cells. 