Friday morning we are in Amarillo Tx. airport for departure. 3 days of hunting, 3 species of turkey, and cover the state of Oklahoma. This hunt is not for the weak of heart. We all know each other fairly well by the end of the hunt. Give us a call if you would like more info on the Sooner Slam. 
Photo of male and female wild turkeys © James Ownby: My View of Nature (all rights reserved; used by permission). The wild turkey is a state symbol of Alabama, Massachusetts, Oklahoma, and South Carolina. A true native American, the eastern wild turkey (Meleagris gallopavo silvestris) is the largest and most widely distributed of the six recognized subspecies of wild turkey in North America. The male can grow up to four feet tall and weigh well over 20 pounds.
Rio Grande (M. g. intermedia). The Rio Grande turkey ranges through Texas to Oklahoma, Kansas, New Mexico, Colorado, Oregon, and central and western California, as well as parts of a few northeastern states where they have been stocked. Rio Grande turkeys were also introduced to Hawaii in the late 1950s. This sub-species is native to the central plain states. They were first described in 1879 and have longer legs when compared to their body size. The Rio Grande turkey’s body feathers often have a green-coppery sheen to them. The tips of the tail and lower back feathers are a buff-very light tan color.
The wild turkey (Meleagris gallopavo) is native to North America and is the heaviest member of the diverse Galliformes. It is the same species as the domestic turkey, which was originally derived from a southern Mexican subspecies of wild turkey (not the related ocellated turkey). The wild turkey in the United States in 1957 ranged from Arizona to southeastern Oklahoma and thence through Tennessee, West Virginia, and New York, and south to Florida and Texas. It formerly ranged north to southeastern South Dakota, southern Wisconsin, southern Ontario, and southwestern Maine.
Eastern Wild Turkey. (Meleagris gallopavo silvestris)This subspecies of wild turkey is the most numerous and hunted species and is also the most widely distributed of all the subspecies in North America. It nearly inhabits the entire eastern half of the country. (Meleagris gallopavo osceola) One the most hunted and sought-after game species in Florida. This unique turkey is known for its location, strictly in the Florida region of the United States.
Each of the turkey subspecies are endemic to a certain region and may have color and size variations, but all are wild turkeys. If you are planning a turkey management initiative on your property, make sure you know which turkey sub-species lives in your area. The sub-species of wild turkey found are: This sub-species is native to the central plain states. They were first described in 1879 and have longer legs when compared to their body size. The Rio Grande turkey’s body feathers often have a green-coppery sheen to them. The tips of the tail and lower back feathers are a buff-very light tan color.
The Rio Grande wild turkey ranges through Texas to Oklahoma, Kansas, New Mexico, Colorado, Oregon, Utah, and was introduced to central and western California, as well as parts of a few northeastern states. It was also introduced to Hawaiʻi in the late 1950s. The wild turkey in the United States in 1957 ranged from Arizona to southeastern Oklahoma and thence through Tennessee, West Virginia, and New York, and south to Florida and Texas. It formerly ranged north to southeastern South Dakota, southern Wisconsin, southern Ontario, and southwestern Maine.
This list of birds of Oklahoma includes every wild bird species recorded in the U.S. state of Oklahoma, as recorded by the Oklahoma Bird Records Committee. There are 469 species, including 17 hypothetical species. 