Thus, an obstetrician/gynecologist is a physician specialist who provides medical and surgical care to women and has particular expertise in pregnancy, childbirth, and disorders of the reproductive system. An Obstetrician specializes in the care and treatment of pregnant women during their pregnancy, labor, delivery and the postpartum period.
Typically, the education and training for both fields occurs concurrently. An obstetrician/gynecologist is a physician specialist who provides medical and surgical care to women and has particular expertise in pregnancy, childbirth, and disorders of the reproductive system. Obstetrician / Gynecologist Overview. An obstetrician is a physician who has successfully completed specialized education and training in the management of pregnancy, labor, and pueperium (the time-period directly following childbirth).
ан Obstetrician is a physician who has successfully completed specialized education and training in the management of pregnancy, labor, and the puerperium (the t … ime-period directly following childbirth). An Obstetrician specializes in the care and treatment of pregnant women during their pregnancy, labor, delivery and the postpartum period.
In this article. An obstetrician is a doctor who specializes in pregnancy, childbirth, and a woman's reproductive system. Although other doctors can deliver babies, many women see an obstetrician, also called an OB/GYN. Your obstetrician can take care of you throughout your pregnancy, and give you follow-up care such as annual Pap tests for years to come. OB/GYNs have graduated from medical school and completed a four-year residency program in obstetrics and gynecology.
Thus, an obstetrician/gynecologist is a physician specialist who provides medical and surgical care to women and has particular expertise in pregnancy, childbirth, and disorders of the reproductive system. There are almost the same, eccept for one thing!   An obstetrician is a physician who has successfully completed specialized education and training in the management of … pregnancy, labor, and pueperium (the time-period directly following childbirth).
A. A. A gynecologist is a doctor who specializes in women's reproductive health. Obstetricians care for women during their pregnancy and just after the baby is born. They also deliver babies. An ob-gyn is trained to do all of these things. Your ob-gyn will deal with some of the most important health issues in your life, including birth control, childbirth, and menopause.
Obstetrics is the medical profession that deals with pregnancy, childbirth, and the postpartum period, chiefly at risk situations requiring surgical interventions. Midwifery is the health profession more related to the normal, natural and low-risk process. 
An obstetrician is a doctor who specialises in monitoring and treating women during pregnancy and childbirth. They usually work with women who have complicated or high-risk pregnancies. First of all, they are surgeons who undergo training in all aspects of childbearing, normal and abnormal. 
An obstetrician, also commonly called an OB/GYN, usually offers a variety of women’s health services, such as annual Pap tests. Obstetricians are also trained to manage complications during pregnancy, birth, and postpartum. 