A registered nurse (RN) is a nurse who has passed the National Council Licensure Examination for Registered Nurses (NCLEX-RN) after completing an accredited training program. These programs come in the form of an Associate of Science in Nursing (ASN) or a Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN).
An aspiring RN can earn a bachelor's of science in nursing (BSN) in four years at a college or university. If you're already an RN, you can enroll in an RN-to-BSN program which is geared specifically for RNs who have an associate's degree or nursing diploma. This path usually takes about two to three years.
RN-BSN. Or, it means a Registered Nurse who became a Registered Nurse by getting her Bachelor's Of Nursing degree. I applaud you for going for your Bachelor's Degree. Especially since you will be going straight from high school to college and since you want to become a NP.
2) RN-BSN program-through a university. Either 4 years of integrated general education, nursing education or 2 years of pre-reqs/gen ed and then 2 years of nursing education, both ending in a bachelor's degree (Bachelor of science in nursing BSN) along with qualification to sit for RN licensure.
The BSN, or Baccalaureate of Science in Nursing, is a college level course of study designed to further the education of registered nurses. In order to be accepted into the program, nurses normally must meet all the admissions criteria, including preparatory degrees and a valid nursing license.
BSN stands for Bachelors of Science in nursing. People who are interested in earning a BSN are required to attend a four year university or college. It typically takes four or five years to earn a bachelor’s degree.
RN vs. BSN: education requirements. The first thing you should know is that becoming an RN means passing the NCLEX exam. There is no way around it. To be eligible to sit for the NCLEX you must first earn either an associate degree in nursing (ADN) or a Bachelor of Science in nursing (BSN).
The ADN stands for associate’s degree in nursing. A registered nurse is someone who has earned either an associate’s degree or bachelor’s degree in nursing and passed the national licensing examination. Many nurses who have earned their BSN go on to earn their MSN. A MSN stands for master’s scienc