According to the analysts behind the Forest 500, governments share a huge amount of the blame with companies and investors. The countries included in this survey are home to about 90 percent of the world’s tropical forests and about 90 percent of the tropical deforestation that occurred over the past decade. 
Furthermore, “as a result of deforestation, only 2.4 million square miles remain” of the original 6 million acres that once covered the earth (Rainforest Concern). Cattle ranching is responsible for 91% of the destruction in tropical rainforests, with over 136 million acres of land cleared for cattle grazing (PETA). Two of the main agricultural exports from converted areas of tropical rainforests are soy and palm (for palm oil). The annual rate of deforestation in the Amazon region increased from 1990 to 2003 due to factors at local, national, and international levels. 70% of formerly forested land in the Amazon, and 91% of land deforested since 1970, is used for livestock pasture.
The main causes of deforestation of the Amazon rainforest are human settlement and development of the land. In the nine years from 1991 to 2000, the area of Amazon rainforest cleared rose from 415,000 to 587,000 km 2 (160,000 to 227,000 sq mi), comparable to the total land area of Spain, Madagascar or Manitoba. The annual rate of deforestation in the Amazon region increased from 1990 to 2003 due to factors at local, national, and international levels. 70% of formerly forested land in the Amazon, and 91% of land deforested since 1970, is used for livestock pasture.
Deforestation, clearance or clearing is the removal of a forest or stand of trees where the land is thereafter converted to a non-forest use. Examples of deforestation include conversion of forestland to farms, ranches, or urban use. Tropical rainforests is where the most concentrated deforestation occurs. Almost 30% of the world is covered by forests, excluding water mass. Others state that tropical rainforest deforestation is contributing to the ongoing Holocene mass extinction. The known extinction rates from deforestation rates are very low, approximately 1 species per year from mammals and birds which extrapolates to approximately 23,000 species per year for all species.
Between 2007 and 2008, the Brazilian Amazon lost almost 3 million acres of rainforest to illegal logging, soy plantations, cattle ranching and other human activities. Most of the remaining forest is under threat, and with it so are the plants, animals and people who depend on the forest. 
Countries with tropical rainforests, the country's land area, original forest cover, present forest cover, and the annual deforestation rate are illustrated in Figure 1. While examining Figure 1, it is important to compare the original forest cover with the present forest cover; the numbers are dreadfully surprising. Currently, the major causes of deforestation are agriculture (64%), the logging industry (18%), fuelwood collection (10%) and cattle ranchers (8%) (Rainforest Alliance, 1999). Over 80% of the world's ancient forests have been destroyed or degraded by logging (Greenpeace, 2001A).
Deforestation occurs for many reasons: trees are cut down to be used or sold as fuel (sometimes in the form of charcoal) or timber, while cleared land is used as pasture for livestock, plantations of commodities and settlements. Others state that tropical rainforest deforestation is contributing to the ongoing Holocene mass extinction. The known extinction rates from deforestation rates are very low, approximately 1 species per year from mammals and birds which extrapolates to approximately 23,000 species per year for all species.
Deforestation undermines this important carbon sink function. It is estimated that 15% of all greenhouse gas emissions are the result of deforestation. Deforestation is a particular concern in tropical rainforests because these forests are home to much of the world’s biodiversity. For example, in the Amazon around 17% of the forest has been lost in the last 50 years, mostly due to forest conversion for cattle ranching. Reduced Biodiversity. About 80% of the world’s documented species can be found in tropical rainforests—some of the forests most vulnerable to deforestation. When species lose their forest homes, they are often unable to subsist in the small fragments of forested land left behind.
In the Amazon, for example, cattle ranching is responsible for the majority of deforestation, with the growth of large-scale soybean farming (mostly for livestock feed) running second. Both have expanded so much that Brazil is now the world’s largest exporter of both beef and soybeans. 
Figure 1. Tropical rainforest deforestation rates (RAN, 1999). Most of the plant and animal life in Madagascar are the world's most endangered species. Slash-and-burn agriculture on poor soil, is the major reason for deforestation, which causes habitat destruction leading to species endangerment. Currently, the major causes of deforestation are agriculture (64%), the logging industry (18%), fuelwood collection (10%) and cattle ranchers (8%) (Rainforest Alliance, 1999). Over 80% of the world's ancient forests have been destroyed or degraded by logging (Greenpeace, 2001A).