Congress holds the power to declare war. As a result, the president cannot declare war without their approval. However, as the Commander in Chief of the armed forces, many presidents have sent troops to battle without an official war declaration (ex. Vietnam, Korea).
None-it is Congress, not the President, who declare war. Five Presidents have sought and obtained such declarations of war Madison (Gt Britain, 1812) Polk (Mexico, 1846) McKinley (Spain, 1898) Wilson (Germany, Austria-Hungary 1917) FD Roosevelt (Japan, Germany, Italy, Hungary, Romania, Bulgaria 1941/42).
Strictly speaking, Congress declares war, after the president requests that they do so. The Republican Party was created in 1854. It was the election of the first Republican president, Lincoln, which triggered the secession crisis and brought on the Civil War.
Presidents can ask Congress to declare war. The presidents who made such a request and had it granted were James Madison (against Great Britain …), James Polk (against Mexico), William McKinley(against Spain), Woodrow Wilson (against Germany and allies) and Franklin Roosevelt (against Japan and allies).
Advertisement. Declaring War The United States has not formally declared war since World War II. Under Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitution, Congress has sole power to declare war [and] grant letters of marque and reprisal..
Three days later Germany declared war on the US, followed by Italy. Democrat Truman sent US troops into Korea after the North Koreans invaded South Korea, but again, officially this was not a war but a police action under UN auspices. Republican Eisenhower sent the first US troops to South Vietnam.
All without a declaration of war. Republican George H. W. Bush sought a resolution from congress authorizing the use of military force against Iraq in 1991. This was not a declaration of war, per se. His son, Republican George W. Bush did the same in 2001 and 2003, for his two wars.
Three days later Germany declared war on the US, followed by Italy. Democrat Truman sent US troops into Korea after the North Koreans invaded South Korea, but again, officially this was not a war but a police action under UN auspices.
Congress has formally declared war only 11 times in U.S. history, and authorized the use of military force 11 times.