Happy Clients. What is Schutzhund. Schutzhund is a German word meaning Protection Dog. It refers to a sport that focuses on developing and evaluating those traits in dogs that make them more useful and happier companions to their owners and everyone that comes in contact with them.
It is physical. Schutzhund started at the beginning of this century as a test for working dogs. Its initial purpose was to determine which dogs could be used for breeding and which had true working ability. The growing demand for working dogs made more sophisticated tests and training necessary. In short, it is what all recreational sports should first be: good exercise, fun and full of rewards
Schutzhund is a German word meaning protection dog.. It refers to a sport that focuses on developing and evaluating those traits in dogs that make them more useful and happier companions to their owners. Schutzhund work concentrates on three parts. Schutzhund is a dog sport that was designed for breeders to measure the working ability of their dogs. The information gained from a schutzhund trial is to be used as a tool in selecting breeding partners.
Schutzhund then and now. Schutzhund’s origins are as involved and complex as the process and competitions are. At the start of the 20th century, industrialization was in full swing. Herding dogs were no longer as essential to the business of daily life, and what people needed from working dogs was changing. Defense dog sport by Shutterstock. Just qualifying for Schutzhund is an achievement for a dog and handler. Earning a title — Schutzhund 1, 2, and 3, with 3 being the ultimate — means a dog and owner are almost completely in accord with each other and have spent many, many hours training.
Phase C: Protection. This phase of Schutzhund training is the strongest test of the dog’s basic temperament and character, with the emphasis on control. It should not be confused with guard or “attack” dog or personal protection training. 
A German Shepherd Dog being trained to retrieve over an A-frame. Schutzhund tests dogs of all breeds for the traits necessary for police-type work. Dogs that pass Schutzhund tests should be suitable for a wide variety of tasks: police work, specific odor detection, search and rescue, and many others. Schutzhund (German for protection dog) is a dog sport that was developed in Germany in the early 1900s as a breed suitability test for the German Shepherd Dog. The test would determine if the dog displayed the appropriate traits and characteristics of a proper working
Schutzhund is a German word meaning protection dog. Schutzhund Training refers to a sport that focuses on developing and evaluating those traits in dogs that make them more useful and happier companions to their owners. Schutzhund work concentrates on three parts. 
LINKS. Schutzhund is a German word meaning protection dog, but there's a lot more to it than that. Originally developed as a means of testing potential breeding stock, it has evolved into a sport that can be enjoyed on a variety of levels from hobby to international competition. 
Traits found in schutzhund dogs. Schutzhund is a sport that focuses on developing and evaluating traits in dogs that make them happier and more useful companions for their owners. Some of these traits include: • Strong desire to work. • Courage. • Intelligence. • Trainability. • Strong bond to the handler. 
It is outdoors. Schutzhund started at the beginning of this century as a test for working dogs. Its initial purpose was to determine which dogs could be used for breeding and which had true working ability. The growing demand for working dogs made more sophisticated tests and training necessary. In short, it is what all recreational sports should first be: good exercise, fun and full of reward