In our recent article we have examined the health benefits of lettuce juice. Endive is another vegetable, virtually belonging to the same group. It very much resembles lettuce, and to some degree it has the same nutritional value. The addition of fruits or seasoning herbs is also an option. Endive is one of the richest sources of Vitamin A among the green vegetables. When it comes to the therapeutic properties of endive juice, this plant has nutritional elements that are capable of strengthening our sight.
Nutrients Found in Belgian Endive. Belgian endive is an excellent source for Vitamin A which is an essential vitamin to help with good eye health and vision and may protect the eyes from getting cataracts. It is also a good source of folate, which is beneficial to pregnant women to help protect against birth defects. Belgian endive is also high in Vitamin C which is an important vitamin in boosting the immune system and help fight off infections. It is also a good source of calcium to help build strong teeth and bone
Endive is enriched with good amount Vitamin A and ss- ß. Carotene both these compounds are known to have antioxidant. Properties carotenes convert into-Vitamin a inside the human. Body, furthermore-Vitamin a is required for maintaining healthy mucus membranes and. skin Health benefits of Endive. Endive is one of the very low calorie leafy vegetables. 100 g fresh leaves carry just 17 calories; however, it contributes about 8% of daily-required intake (DRI) of fiber.
It is a green vegetable that looks quite similar to lettuce, except for the fact that it is curly. There are two main varieties found in this vegetable, namely, the narrow leaf (endive) and the broad leaf (escarole). The narrow leaf, also called curly endive, has narrow, green and curly outer leaves. 1 Use endives raw in salads or cook them just like spinach. 2  Since endive is slightly bitter, it adds zest to a mixed salad. 3  Crispiness, tenderness and freshness determine the quality of endive. 4  This can be found by breaking or twisting a leaf. 5  Do not drink plain endive juice, since it is in bitter taste
Different varieties of Endives are called Frisee, Escarole, Belgian Endive, French Endive, Red Endive, Sugarloaf, Witlof, and Witloof. The name is also used when referring to other leafy greens such as Chicory or Radicchio. Useful Parts of the Plant: Leaves, stems, and roots. The leafy green endive is a vegetable that belongs to the Daisy family. It is a narrow plant with outer leaves that are either curly or broad and pale depending on the type. The leaves tend to be crunchy and bitter and provide dishes like salads and sandwiches with a delicious bite. Nutritional Information and Properties of Endives. Irrespective of the type of endive, the leaves of the plant are an excellent source of minerals such as calcium, zinc, iron, manganese, thiamin, and potassium.
Benefits Of Endives. The endive, also called Belgian endive, Witlof and Witloof, has been in existence since ancient times and was planted by the Greeks, Romans and Egyptians. 1 Use endives raw in salads or cook them just like spinach. 2  Since endive is slightly bitter, it adds zest to a mixed salad. 3  Crispiness, tenderness and freshness determine the quality of endive. 4  This can be found by breaking or twisting a leaf. 5  Do not drink plain endive juice, since it is in bitter taste
Endive nutrition facts. Endive, commonly popular as escarole, is a green leafy-vegetable with a hint of bitter flavor. Nevertheless, this well-known salad plant is much more than just a leafy green; packed with numerous health benefiting plant nutrients such as vitamin C, vitamin A, etc. Health benefits of Endive. Endive is one of the very low calorie leafy vegetables. 100 g fresh leaves carry just 17 calories; however, it contributes about 8% of daily-required intake (DRI) of fiber.
Before you share an important document with colleagues or clients, you probably take the precaution of proofreading or reviewing the contents of the document to ensure that everything is correct and the document does not contain anything you do not want to share with other people. Open the Office document that you want to inspect for hidden data or personal information. Click the Microsoft Office Button, click Save As, and then type a name in the File name box to save a copy of your original document.