Report Abuse. Co-founder of the Democratic-Republican Party & Hence belonged to the Democratic-Republican Party With James Madison he founded the Democratic-Republican Party in 1792.. Thus as he was not the only founder, he is a co-founder. Source(s): http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thomas_Jeff... This party was founded in 1828 --after the 1824 election shattered the Republican party -- by Jackson and his supporters, but considered by them to be heirs of Jefferson.
Thomas Jefferson belonged to and founded the Democratic-Republican Party, which was in opposition to the Federalist Party founded by Alexander Hamilton. This party was founded in 1828 --after the 1824 election shattered the Republican party -- by Jackson and his supporters, but considered by them to be heirs of Jefferson.
In the election of 1796 Thomas Jefferson was their candidate against Federalist John Adams; Adams was elected president and Jefferson, vice president. In 1800 Jefferson and the Democratic-Republicans defeated Adams and the Federalists, who also lost control of Congress. Organized by James Madison and Thomas Jefferson with the aid of George Clinton and Aaron Burr, the Democratic-Republicans brought together former Antifederalists and moderate Federalists.
Historians typically use the title Republican Party. It was the second political party in the United States, and was organized by then Thomas Jefferson and his friend James Madison in 1791–93, to oppose the Federalist Party run by Secretary of the Treasury Alexander Hamilton.
Alexander Hamilton was a founder of the Federalist Party; Thomas Jefferson was founder of the Democratic-Republican Party. The Federalists wanted a strong central government a … nd encouraged the states to ratify the Constitution. The Democratic-Republicans believed the states should retain sovereignty. He was actually the founder of the party. Jefferson created the party in opposition to the Federalist Party, that was founded b … y Alexander Hamilton.
He represented the Democratic-Republican Party. He was actually the founder of the party. Jefferson created the party in opposition to the Federalist Party, that was founded b … y Alexander Hamilton. The Federalist Party was committed to a fiscally sound and nationalistic government
· just now. Report Abuse. Jefferson belonged to the party that bore his name -- the Jeffersonian Republicans --- also known as the Democratic Republicans.. He was never a Whig. The Whigs were the descendants of the Federalists, and Jefferson was from the tradition of the Anti-Federalists
The Democratic-Republican Party was the American political party in the 1790s of Thomas Jefferson and James Madison formed in opposition to the centralizing policies of the new Federalist party. It came to power in 1800, and dominated national and state affairs until the 1820s, when it faded away. It was the second political party in the United States, and was organized by then Thomas Jefferson and his friend James Madison in 1791–93, to oppose the Federalist Party run by Secretary of the Treasury Alexander Hamilton.