They are prescribed to patients for daily use, and come in the form of tablets or capsules of varying dosages. Treatment of ADHD with stimulants, often in conjunction with psychotherapy, helps to improve ADHD symptoms along with the patient’s self-esteem, thinking ability, and social and family interactions. Concerns have been raised that stimulants prescribed to treat a child’s or adolescent’s ADHD could affect an individual’s vulnerability to developing later drug problems—either by increasing the risk or by providing a degree of protection.
Stimulants, however, are a tried and true treatment for ADHD. Ritalin has been used to treat ADHD since the 1960’s and is still in use. Many of the brand-name ADHD medications such as Concerta are just long-acting/slow release formulations of Ritalin. As a pediatrician, I do not feel that non-stimulant medications for ADHD have been in use long enough to really show their long-term efficacy. Many of these drugs are mild sedatives. It is my best medical opinion that sedating medications may meet the needs of teachers and parents more than the needs of the child.
DrugFacts: Stimulant ADHD Medications: Methylphenidate and Amphetamines. Stimulant medications including amphetamines (e.g., Adderall) and methylphenidate (e.g., Ritalin and Concerta) are often prescribed to treat children, adolescents, or adults diagnosed with attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Concerns have been raised that stimulants prescribed to treat a child’s or adolescent’s ADHD could affect an individual’s vulnerability to developing later drug problems—either by increasing the risk or by providing a degree of protection.
What are stimulants? As the name suggests, stimulants increase alertness, attention, and energy, as well as elevate blood pressure, heart rate, and respiration. Stimulants historically were used to treat asthma and other respiratory problems, obesity, neurological disorders, and a variety of other ailments. But as their potential for abuse and addiction became apparent, the medical use of stimulants began to wane. Now, stimulants are prescribed to treat only a few health conditions, including ADHD, narcolepsy, and occasionally depression—in those who have not responded to other treatments.
Colloquially known as uppers (in contrast to depressants, known as downers), stimulants are often abused for the euphoric rush accompanied with them. Stimulant medications include Ritalin, Adderall, ephedrine, and others, often utilized to help control the symptoms of ADHD. 
Doctors prescribe stimulants to treat attention deficit hyperactivity disorder and narcolepsy, a chronic brain disorder that causes extreme daytime sleepiness. Stimulants are sometimes prescribed for limited, short-term use in people with obesity, but only when other therapies have failed. 
Adderall is a psychostimulant composed of mixed amphetamine salts. It is used to treat ADHD, stimulating the brain's activity. It is also sometimes used as an anti-depressant. Source(s): http://adderall.freehostia.com/.
By Anne Marie Helmenstine, Ph.D. One common drug question I get a lot is whether Adderall, a drug commonly prescribed for ADHD (Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder), is a stimulant or a depressant. Adderall is an amphetamine, which means it is a stimulant, in the same class of chemicals that includes methamphetamine and benzedrine. As with other amphetamines, it is addictive and discontinuing its use may lead to withdrawal symptoms. Part of the confusion over whether the drug is a stimulant or depressant arises from the different effects people experience depending on dose and individual physiology. While one person may feel jittery and hyper after taking Adderall, another may feel more an increased sense of focus