In the Church's traditional theological language, in the act of consecration during the Eucharist the substance of the bread and wine is changed by the power of the Holy Spirit into the substance of the Body and Blood of Jesus Christ. At the same time, the accidents or appearances of bread and wine remain. First, the Body of Christ refers to the human body of Jesus Christ, who is the divine Word become man. During the Eucharist, the bread and wine become the Body and Blood of Christ.
Elements In the context of the Eucharist, ‘the elements’ are the bread and wine. The words ‘the gifts’ are sometimes used instead of ‘the elements’. Epiclesis In the Eucharistic prayer, this means asking the Holy Spirit to change the bread and wine into the body and blood of Christ. The vessel in which a bread consecrated in the Eucharist is placed when exposition of the Blessed Sacrament is used for public worship. The monstrance is usually very decorative. The word comes from monstrare meaning ‘to show’.
The word Eucharist may refer not only to the rite but also to the consecrated bread (leavened or unleavened) and wine (or grape juice) used in the rite. In this sense, communicants (that is, those who partake of the communion elements) may speak of receiving the Eucharist, as well as celebrating the Eucharist. The expression The Lord's Supper, derived from St. Paul 's usage in 1 Cor. 11:17-34, may have originally referred to the Agape feast (or love feast), the shared communal meal with which the Eucharist was originally associated. The Agape feast is mentioned in Jude 12.
The Eucharist has been a key theme in the depictions of the Last Supper in Christian art, as in this 16th-century Juan de Juanes painting. The Eucharist /ˈjuːkərɪst/ (also called Holy Communion, the Lord's Supper, and other names) is a rite considered by most Christian churches to be a sacrament. According to the New Testament, it was instituted by Jesus Christ during his Last Supper. The expression The Lord's Supper, derived from St. Paul 's usage in 1 Cor. 11:17-34, may have originally referred to the Agape feast (or love feast), the shared communal meal with which the Eucharist was originally associated. The Agape feast is mentioned in Jude 12.
During the Eucharist, the bread and wine become the Body and Blood of Christ. As human, Jesus Christ has a human body, a resurrected and glorified body that in the Eucharist is offered to us in the form of bread and wine. 
2 (often Communion or Holy Communion) The service of Christian worship at which bread and wine are consecrated and shared: Communion was celebrated once a month [as modifier]: communion service communion wine See Eucharist. 
1 Worshipers share bread and wine in the Eucharist as a sign of their unity with each other and with Jesus. 2  While a great many Christians celebrate the Eucharist, there is some variation as to how the gifts are understood. noun. 1 The Christian service, ceremony, or sacrament commemorating the Last Supper, in which bread and wine are consecrated and consumed: we went to an early morning Eucharist the daily celebration of the Eucharist. More example sentences. 1  Worshipers share bread and wine in the Eucharist as a sign of their unity with each other and with Jesus. 2  While a great many Christians celebrate the Eucharist, there is some variation as to how the gifts are understood. 3  The Eucharist records Christ's breaking of the bread at the Last Supper
Definition. The word “Eucharist” is a transliteration of the Greek word eucharistia, which is itself a translation of the Hebrew word berekah. All three words have the meaning of thanksgiving, or praise for the wonderful works of God. As Paul testifies, the Eucharist was often celebrated within the context of a common meal to which all were invited. In 1 Cor: 17-22, Paul excoriates those who refused to share food with others who were not of the same status as them, thus violating the model that Jesus had presented.