Ethical approval. Researchers need to consider the ethical implications of the research they are planning to carry out prior to finalising a research plan. Making sure that your research is ethical focuses primarily on two areas. A final issue that you will need to consider as you plan and carry out educational research is that of your own position as researcher. This is particularly relevant if you are researching your own organisation or have a position of influence over research ‘subjects’.
Researchers need to consider the ethical implications of the research they are planning to carry out prior to finalising a research plan. A final issue that you will need to consider as you plan and carry out educational research is that of your own position as researcher. This is particularly relevant if you are researching your own organisation or have a position of influence over research ‘subjects’.
eth·i·cal. adj. 1. Of, relating to, or dealing with ethics: an ethical treatise. 2. Being in accordance with the accepted principles of right and wrong that govern the conduct of a profession: an ethical act. See Synonyms at moral. 3. Relating to or being a drug dispensed solely on the prescription of a physician. 
Many people consider that studies referred to as audit do not need any consideration of ethics, whereas all research must be approved by a formally constituted research ethics committee or, in the USA, an institutional review board. Ethics approval of research. The BMJ aims to ensure that all articles published in The BMJ report on work that is morally acceptable, and expects authors to follow the World Medical Association's Declaration of Helsinki.
Human Ethics Resources. Most human research, and other investigative activities, will require ethics approval. However, in a limited number of cases, an exemption from formal ethics review can be granted. The limited circumstances in which an ‘ethics exemption’ can be granted are discussed in this section. You will then be advised of the outcome of your application. If exemption from formal ethics review is granted, you will receive a letter confirming this decision. If exemption is not granted, you will be required to submit a standard human research ethics application to obtain approval to commence your project.
If your project involves human research, you must apply for ethics approval, and must not begin your research activity until you've received approval. Human research is conducted with or about people, their data, and/or their tissue. People (participants) can be involved in research by: If it can, the process you undertake to gain ethical approval to use the data will be simpler. However, the data custodian or someone who's not part of the research team will need to perform this de-identifying process.
The process of applying for ethical approval is useful in pushing you to clarify the aims, process and outputs of the research. Ethical considerations may lead to modification of your planned research: you may decide that the time frame, scale or scope of the research is unrealistic. A final issue that you will need to consider as you plan and carry out educational research is that of your own position as researcher. This is particularly relevant if you are researching your own organisation or have a position of influence over research ‘subjects’.
If you are in doubt as to whether your research requires ethical approval, (for example if it is audit or service evaluation) you should look at the guidance on the website (http://www.kcl.ac.uk/innovation/research/support/ethics/index.aspx) and contact the Research Ethics Office for help with any unresolved queries. The researcher will not be covered by the College’s insurance if ethical approval was not obtained prior to commencement. This means that should a participant make a claim regarding the research, then the staff or student would be personally liable.
(March 2014). An institutional review board (IRB), also known as an independent ethics committee (IEC), ethical review board (ERB), or research ethics board (REB), is a committee that has been formally designated to approve, monitor, and review biomedical and behavioral research involving humans. 
Ethical approval is required for all research undertaken by any staff or student at King’s College London that involves human participants. The researcher will not be covered by the College’s insurance if ethical approval was not obtained prior to commencement. This means that should a participant make a claim regarding the research, then the staff or student would be personally liable.