Age 65: When you first qualify to take Medicare. Your full retirement age: When you can start collecting your full Social Security benefits and work while collecting Social Security without a penalty. Age 70: When Social Security stops increasing your benefit for every month you wait to collect. And finally, remember that if you're below your full retirement age and still working while collecting Social Security, you face a penalty of as much as $1 for every $2 you earn above $15,720 within the year.
Under the Social Security laws, you can begin to receive your retirement payments once you hit the age of 62 (early retirement), at full retirement age (varies by year you were born), or at late retirement age (any age after your full retirement age). If you start claiming Social Security benefits at your full retirement age, you will receive your full retirement benefits. Claiming at Late Retirement Age. The Social Security Administration gives an incentive for people to work past their full retirement age by providing larger checks.
At what age can I start collecting Social Security benefits? Workers can begin receiving benefits at age 62, but your benefit will be greater if you wait until your full retirement age (currently 66) or later. Widows, widowers, surviving children, the disabled and children of the disabled can start collecting earlier. 
You can begin receiving benefits as early as age 62, but if you do, the monthly payment will be reduced from normal retirement age. For those born in 1960 or later, that will mean a 30% reduction in your monthly benefit compared to waiting until your normal retirement age. Another important consideration is earned income. If you have income from a job or business, your Social Security benefits may be reduced if you begin collecting benefits prior to your normal retirement age. For those born prior to 1955, your benefits will be reduced $1 for every $2 you earn in excess of $14,160.
Early Social Security can cost you. If your full retirement age is 67, your Social Security benefit is reduced by: 1  About 30 percent if you start collecting at 62. 2  About 25 percent if you start collecting at 63. 3  About 20 percent if you start collecting at 64. 4  About 13.3 percent if you start collecting at 65
If you start more than 36 months before your full retirement age, the benefit is further reduced by five-twelfths of 1% per month. For example, if your full retirement age is 66 and you elect to start benefits at age 62, the reduced benefit calculation is based on 48 months. This means that the reduction for the first 36 months is 20% (five-ninths of 1% times 36) and 5% (five-twelfths of 1% times 12) for the remaining 12 months. The age at which you can start receiving full Social Security retirement benefits is a moving target and depends on the year you were born (see table below). You can elect to take benefits early at age 62 (earlier only if you are a survivor or on disability), or wait as late as age 70.
You can begin receiving reduced benefits as early as 62, but to receive your full benefit, you must reach full retirement age (as defined by Social Security). Your full Social Security retirement age depends on the year you were born. 
Retirement Planner: When To Start Your Benefits. You can start your Social Security retirement benefits as early as age 62 or as late as age 70. Your monthly benefit amount will be different depending on the age you start receiving it. If you choose to:
Assuming you qualify, you can start collecting as early as age 62, but the longer you wait -- up until age 70 -- the higher your monthly benefit will be. Somewhere between age 62 and age 70, you reach what Social Security calls your full retirement age.. If you start collecting benefits at that age, you'll receive exactly what Social Security calculates your full benefit is worth based on your earnings history. And finally, remember that if you're below your full retirement age and still working while collecting Social Security, you face a penalty of as much as $1 for every $2 you earn above $15,720 within the year.