There is a genetic predisposition for IBD (see Etiology), and patients with this condition are more prone to the development of malignancy (see Prognosis). Severe colitis noted during colonoscopy in a patient with inflammatory bowel disease. Three characteristics define the etiology of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD): (1) genetic predisposition; (2) an altered, dysregulated immune response; and (3) an altered response to gut microorganisms.
Idiopathic inflammatory bowel disease. A term of art for a case of inflammatory bowel disease, which is known to be either ulcerative colitis or Crohn’s disease, but for which the diagnosis cannot be neatly classified as one or the other diagnosis. 1 Idiopathic inflammatory bowel disease. 2  idiopathic intracranial hypertension. 3  idiopathic megacolon. 4  idiopathic midline destructive disease. 5  idiopathic multiple pigmented hemorrhagic sarcoma. 6  idiopathic muscular atrophy. 7  idiopathic myocarditis. 8  idiopathic necrotizing crescentic glomerulonephritis.
Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is a group of inflammatory conditions of the colon and small intestine. Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis are the principal types of inflammatory bowel disease. There is evidence of an infectious contribution to inflammatory bowel disease in some patients and this subgroup of patients may benefit from antibiotic therapy. Anaemia is a common finding in both ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease.
In Crohn's disease, proximal small bowel and upper gastrointestinal tract location is associated with risk of recurrence and surgery; small bowel disease with risk of surgery; and colonic disease, and particularly rectal disease, is associated with increased risk of peri-anal lesions. In ulcerative colitis, extensive colitis is associated with increased risk of colorectal cancer and colectomy. Individual treatment of patients with inflammatory bowel disease depends on disease location and severity.
Currently the strongest predictors of disease course in Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis are the age at diagnosis, disease location and smoking habit. Younger age at the onset is associated with more aggressive disease both in Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis. In ulcerative colitis, extensive colitis is associated with increased risk of colorectal cancer and colectomy. Individual treatment of patients with inflammatory bowel disease depends on disease location and severity.
BACKGROUND: Anti-TNFα biologics induce and maintain remission in inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). Also, they have been reported to induce or unmask idiopathic inflammatory demyelinating disease of the central nervous system (IIDD). AIM: To determine if anti-TNFα biologics increased the risk of IIDD in a large cohort of patients with IBD.
Anti-TNFα biologics are effective treatments for inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD). Among other potential adverse effects, anti-TNFα biologics have been implicated in the worsening of multiple sclerosis (MS) and in the development of central nervous system (CNS) idiopathic inflammatory demyelinating diseases (IIDDs). IBD, inflammatory bowel disease; CD, Crohn's disease; UC, ulcerative colitis; anti-TNF α, anti-tumour necrosis factor alpha; IIDD, idiopathic inflammatory-demyelinating disease of the central nervous system.
Idiopathic inflammatory demyelinating disease of the central nervous system in patients with inflammatory bowel disease: retrospective analysis of 9095 patients. Also, they have been reported to induce or unmask idiopathic inflammatory demyelinating disease of the central nervous system (IIDD). AIM: To determine if anti-TNFα biologics increased the risk of IIDD in a large cohort of patients with IBD.
Figure 1. Case ascertainment of IIDD in IBD patients with and without anti-TNFα exposure. IBD, inflammatory bowel disease; CD, Crohn's disease; UC, ulcerative colitis; anti-TNF α, anti-tumour necrosis factor alpha; IIDD, idiopathic inflammatory-demyelinating disease of the central nervous system.
Classification [edit]. The chief types of inflammatory bowel disease are Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis (UC). Inflammatory bowel diseases fall into the class of autoimmune diseases, in which the body's own immune system attacks elements of the digestive system. There is evidence of an infectious contribution to inflammatory bowel disease in some patients and this subgroup of patients may benefit from antibiotic therapy. Anaemia is a common finding in both ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease.