complexometric titration. n. 1. (Chemistry) chem a titration in which a coloured complex is formed, usually by the use of a chelating agent, such as EDTA, the end point being marked by a sharp decrease in the concentration of free metal ions. 1  Facebook.
In a complexometric titration, a solution containing the free metal ion of interest is titrated with a solution of chelating agent until all of the metal ions are completely complexed. The endpoint is usually measured with an indicator ligand that forms a colored complex with the free metal ion.
noun. ( 1 chemistry) a titration in which a coloured complex is formed, usually by the use of a chelating agent, such as EDTA, the end point being marked by a sharp decrease in the concentration of free metal ions.
Report Abuse. Complexometric titration (sometimes chelatometry) is a form of volumetric analysis in which the formation of a colored complex is used to indicate the end point of a titration. Complexometric titrations are particularly useful for the determination of a mixture of different metal ions in solution.
EDTA Titration. 1  Ethylenediamminetetraacetic acid (EDTA) is a complexometric indicator which is an ionochromic dye. 2  It gives a distinct color change in presence of even small amounts of the metal ions. 3  It forms a weak complex by using the metal ions that exist in the solution.
Complexometric titration (sometimes chelatometry) is a form of volumetric analysis in which the formation of a colored complex is used to indicate the end point of a titration.
complexometric titration (kəmˌplɛksəʊˈmɛtrɪk). ( 1 chemistry) a titration in which a coloured complex is formed, usually by the use of a chelating agent, such as EDTA, the end point being marked by a sharp decrease in the concentration of free metal ions.
Complexometric titrations are particularly useful for the determination of a mixture of different metal ions in solution. An indicator capable of producing an unambiguous color change is usually used to detect the end-point of the titration.
complexometric titration. (analytical chemistry). A technique of volumetric analysis in which the formation of a colored complex is used to indicate the end point of a titration. Also known as chelatometry.