According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, onboard chefs can make more than their counterparts working in restaurants. The BLS average for all chef salaries as of May 2012 was $42,480. However, those working in the traveler accommodation industry averaged $48, 210, and those in other recreation industries averaged $47, 490.
Average Disney Cruise Line Salaries. The average salary for disney cruise line jobs is $18,000. Average disney cruise line salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. This salary was calculated using the average salary for all jobs with the term disney cruise line anywhere in the job listing.
The salary of a pastry chef supervisor, as of June 2014, ranges from $1,900 per month to $2,400 per month. Pastry chefs must have no fewer than two years of experience. According to Cruise Ship Jobs, a pastry chef can expect to earn between $1,100 and $1,500 per month. The BLS average for all chef salaries as of May 2012 was $42,480. However, those working in the traveler accommodation industry averaged $48, 210, and those in other recreation industries averaged $47, 490.
Average Sous Chef Cruise Ship salaries for job postings nationwide are 31% lower than average salaries for all job postings nationwide. 
Assists in the preparation and cooking of all bakery products-culinary background of no less than three years restaurant / hotel experience or prior experience in subordinate position on board required. Good English Language skills required. Salary range: $1600-1900 U.S. per month, depending on the cruise line. Job description: the Chef De Partie is a senior middle-management level position aboard a cruise ship. The Chef De Partie prepares and produced gourmet cuisine and sauces, manages food displays on buffets and in restaurants.
Hidden Costs and Practices. When calculating the average salary of any cruise ship worker, it is also necessary to factor in the expenses incurred by taking the job. Cruise workers are required to pay for transportation to the ship, any visas or work permits and medical or legal permits. Income Range. Salaries range from around $800 per month up to $8,000 depending on the position you work and the line for which you work. Entry-level positions such as junior waitstaff are at the bottom of the ladder, while the maitre d'hotel will be at the top.
Sales skills are an asset. Average Salary: $1,200 to $3,500 per month Waiter Other Job Titles: Server (Disney Cruise Line) Job Description: Provides food and beverage service for guests in one of the onboard dining rooms or specialty restaurants. Average Salary: $1,200 to $2,000 per month Assistant Waiter Other Job Titles: Junior Waiter (Princess Cruises), Assistant Server (Disney Cruise Line) Job Description: Assists the waiter with food and beverage service for the guests in one of the onboard dining rooms or
Salary range: $4500-7800 U.S. per month, depending on the cruise line. Executive Sous Chef-responsible for the day to day operations of the galley staff, assisting the Executive Chef with the food planning, preparation and quality control. Salary range: $2700-3700 U.S. per month, depending on the cruise line. Possibilities for promotion to Chef De Partie. Commis 1 (First Cook) - supervises Commis 2 and Commis 3 (second and third cooks). Food preparation and cooking responsibilities as directed by the Demi Chef De partie and
Cooks on ships earn a range of salaries, depending on experience. A cruise ship commis is a cook under the direction of the chef de partie or demi chef de partie. All cooks are intimately involved in food preparation and cooking process, deboning meats, cutting vegetables, broiling, grilling, and preparing the sautees. sauteés The BLS average for all chef salaries as of May 2012 was $42,480. However, those working in the traveler accommodation industry averaged $48, 210, and those in other recreation industries averaged $47, 490.
Average Salary: $1,000 to $1,500 per month Bar Steward Job Description: Serves beverages to guests; Takes drink orders from guests. Experience and Skills Required: Candidates must have a minimum of five years of bartending experience on a cruise ship or in a high volume luxury resort. Average Salary: $1,200 to $2,000 per month Assistant Waiter Other Job Titles: Junior Waiter (Princess Cruises), Assistant Server (Disney Cruise Line) Job Description: Assists the waiter with food and beverage service for the guests in one of the onboard dining rooms or restaurants.