We introduced the carbonyl group (C=O)—the functional group of aldehydes and ketones—in Chapter 14 Organic Compounds of Oxygen . The carbonyl group is also found in carboxylic acids, esters, and amides. However, in these compounds, the carbonyl group is only part of the functional group. A carboxylic acidAn organic compound that has a carboxyl group. is an organic compound that has a carboxyl groupA functional group that contains a carbon–oxygen bond and an OH group also attached to the same carbon atom. .
In chemistry, esters are chemical compounds derived from an acid (organic or inorganic) in which at least one-OH (hydroxyl) group is replaced by an-O- alkyl (alkoxy) group. Usually, esters are derived from a carboxylic acid and an alcohol. Glycerides, which are fatty acid esters of glycerol, are important esters in biology, being one of the main classes of lipids, and making up the bulk of animal fats and vegetable oils.
The same functional group will undergo the same or similar chemical reaction(s) regardless of the size of the molecule it is a part of. In contrast, unsaturated carbon functional groups, and carbon-oxygen and carbon-nitrogen functional groups have a more diverse array of reactions that are also selective. It may be necessary to create a functional group in the molecule to make it react.
In organic chemistry, functional groups are specific groups of atoms within molecules, that are responsible for the characteristic chemical reactions of those molecules. The same functional group will undergo the same or similar chemical reaction(s) regardless of the size of the molecule it is a part of. The first carbon after the carbon that attaches to the functional group is called the alpha carbon. Functional groups are attached to the carbon backbone of organic molecules. They determine the characteristics and chemical reactivity of
In organic chemistry, functional groups are specific groups (moieties) of atoms or bonds within molecules that are responsible for the characteristic chemical reactions of those molecules. In contrast, unsaturated carbon functional groups, and carbon-oxygen and carbon-nitrogen functional groups have a more diverse array of reactions that are also selective. It may be necessary to create a functional group in the molecule to make it react.
Sulfonate Ester-an ester similar to an ester formed from a carboxylic acid except the carbon (C) of the carboxyl group (COO) is replaced by a sulfur (S) atom. A Sulfoxide/Sulfinyl contains a sulfinyl functional group attached to two carbon atoms. The first carbon after the carbon that attaches to the functional group is called the alpha carbon. Functional groups are attached to the carbon backbone of organic molecules. They determine the characteristics and chemical reactivity of
, which is organic compound derived from a carboxylic acid and an alcohol in which the OH of the acid is replaced by an OR group, looks somewhat like an ether and also somewhat like a carboxylic acid. A carboxylic acidAn organic compound that has a carboxyl group. is an organic compound that has a carboxyl groupA functional group that contains a carbon–oxygen bond and an OH group also attached to the same carbon atom. .
The thiol functional group is similar to the hydroxyl group except the oxygen atom in the hydroxyl group is a sulfur atom in the thiol group. Thiol functional group is also known as a sulfhydryl functional group. Thiol functional groups have formula-SH. Molecules that contain thiol groups are also called mercaptans. 8. Also known as the carboxyl functional group. The carboxyl group is an ester where one substituent R is a hydrogen atom. The carboxyl group is usually denoted by-COOH. This is the general structure of the thio
by Dunee. Ester vs Ether. Ester and ether are organic molecules with oxygen atoms. Both have the ether linkage which is –O-. Esters have the group –COO. One oxygen atom is bonded to carbon with a double bond, and the other oxygen is bonded with a single bond. • Esters are carboxylic acid derivatives and have the group –COO. Ethers have the –O-functional group. • Ester has a carbonyl group adjacent to the –O-oxygen, but ether doesn’t have such. • Esters have so many characteristic smells. • Esters are easily hydrolyzed to produce an alcohol and a carboxylic acid in contrast to ethers