Ron Evans/Photolibrary/Getty Images. Definition: A true annual is a plant that completes its life cycle in one year. This means it goes from seed to seed and then dies off, during the course of one growing season. The whole mission of an annual is to produce seed and propagate. 
Annual plants are plants that complete their entire life cycle in one year. This means the sprout from their seeds or bulbs grow to maturity and produce their own offspring within the course of a year. 
That’s because some of them are annual plants and some are perennial plants. Annual plants are plants with a life cycle that lasts only one year. They grow from seed, bloom, produce seeds and die in one growing season. They then need to be replanted each spring. Most annuals bloom for a long time. They provide beautiful colors from spring through fall and are popular with flower gardeners. The term  perennial  refers to herbaceous (“green”) plants since woody plants, such as trees, are perennial by definition. Unlike annuals, perennials tend to bloom for just a short time — one to three weeks — each year. Examples of popular perennial flowers include tulips, asters, black-eyed susans and lilies.
Definition of Annuals. In general, a flower classified as an annual completes its life cycle of growing, flowering, and setting seed all in one year. The flower then dies. When to Plant. An annual's bloom time determines when it should be planted. Annuals that flower during the summer and fall, and die with the first frost, are planted in the spring after the threat of frost has passed. Annuals that will flower in the winter and spring, then die in the summer, are planted in the fall
Tips, tricks and step-by-step how-tos to make the most of annual flower plants in your garden. Whether creating seasonal containers or adding season long color to your border, annual flowers can be used to design everything from a cottage garden to a tropical paradise. 
1 The root in both words, annual and perennial (i.e., per-annual) is the Latin word for year, annus. 2  Annual plants are thus those that last but a year in their native climes. For perennials usually don't produce flowers their first year (grown from seed) but make up for it by flowering more than 1 year. That is, they have a longer life cycle. Some plants that are perennials in their native (e.g., tropical) lands are treated as if they weren't in colder regions.
Peas are an annual plant. An annual plant is a plant that completes its life cycle, from germination to the production of seed, within one year, and then dies. Summer annuals germinate during spring or early summer and mature by autumn of the same year. One seed-to-seed life cycle for an annual can occur in as little as a month in some species, though most last several months. Oilseed rapa can go from seed-to-seed in about five weeks under a bank of fluorescent lamps.
The Plants. Many of the garden’s most colorful flowers are annuals that explode with color on fast-growing plants. Marigolds (Tagetes erecta), zinnias (Zinnia spp.) and China asters (Callistephus chinensis) all grow from USDA zone 2 to zone 11, but only for one season. Another perennial, tulip (Tulipa spp.), hardy from USDA zone 3 to 8, must be grown as an annual in higher zones because winters do not provide sufficient chilling to produce flowers.