The ventricles are the heart's two lower chambers. They fill with blood from the top chambers of the heart (atria) and send it to the lungs and through the aorta to be circulated throughout the body. Tachycardia is a heart rate of greater than 100 beats per minute. A normal heart rate is 60 to 100 beats per minute at rest. Ventricular tachycardia is a regular, faster-than-normal heart rate that begins in the heart's lower chambers. In most patients with ventricular tachycardia the rate is in the range of 170 beats per minute or more. Most often, ventricular tachycardia is caused by other heart problems such as coronary artery disease, high blood pressure, an enlarged heart (cardiomyopathy) or heart valve disease. It also can develop after a heart attack (myocardial infarction) or after heart surgery because of scar tissue that forms on the heart.
VF and pulseless VT are shockable rhythms and treated in similar fashion. Asystole and PEA are also included in the cardiac arrest algorithm but are nonshockable rhythms. Ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia are treated using the left branch of the cardiac arrest arrest algorithm. Click below to view the cardiac arrest algorithm diagram. When done click again to close the diagram. Cardiac Arrest Algorithm Diagram» or Members Download the Hi-Resolution PDF Here
Ventricular tachycardia (VT) is a broad complex tachycardia originating from a ventricular ectopic focus. It is defined as three or more ventricular extrasystoles in succession at a rate of more than 120 beats per minute (bpm). Accelerated idioventricular rhythm refers to ventricular rhythms with rates of 60-100 bpm: 
The pulseless ventricular tachycardia rhythm is primarily identified by several criteria. First, the rate is usually greater than 180 beats per minute and the rhythm generally has a very wide QRS complex. Second, the patient will be pulseless and third, the rhythm originates in the ventricles. This is in contrast to other types of tachycardias which have origination above the ventricular tissue (in the atria).
Pulseless ventricular tachycardia is a life-threatening cardiac emergency that ends in death without prompt and immediate treatment. The term tachycardia refers to a rapid heart rate, routinely understood as greater than 100 beats per minute. Treatment of pulseless ventricular tachycardia is an emergency procedure commonly referred to as a code. Manual chest compressions are administered in order to simulate functional heartbeats and blood volume circulation.
Ventricular tachycardia is a type of heart rhythm disorder (arrhythmia) in which the lower chambers of your heart (ventricles) beat very quickly because of a problem in your heart's electrical system. 
Ventricular tachycardia (VT) is a very fast heartbeat caused by a malfunction in one of the heart’s ventricles. It is a pulse of more than 100 beats per minute with at least three irregular heartbeats in a row. VT can occur with or without heart disease. It can make you feel like your heart is racing. 
Pulseless ventricular tachycardia is a temporary condition wherein the heart's large ventricles are pumping very rapidly but completely ineffectively. Patients recovering from pulseless ventricular tachycardia often require supplemental oxygen. Treatment of pulseless ventricular tachycardia is an emergency procedure commonly referred to as a code. Manual chest compressions are administered in order to simulate functional heartbeats and blood volume circulation.
An EKG is often used to continuously monitor the heart rate and rhythm of a critically ill patient in order to catch abnormalities quickly. Paramedics perform manual chest compressions in order to combat the effects of pulseless ventricular tachycardia. Treatment of pulseless ventricular tachycardia is an emergency procedure commonly referred to as a code. Manual chest compressions are administered in order to simulate functional heartbeats and blood volume circulation.
Ventricular tachycardia. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Ventricular tachycardia (V-tach or VT) is a type of tachycardia, or a rapid heart beat that arises from improper electrical activity of the heart presenting as a rapid heart rhythm, that starts in the bottom chambers of the heart, called the ventricles. The ventricles are the main pumping chambers of the heart. 1 RVOT tachycardia is a type of monomorphic ventricular tachycardia originating in the right ventricular outflow tract. 2  RVOT morphology refers to the characteristic pattern of this type of tachycardia on an ECG. 3  Polymorphic ventricular tachycardia, on the other hand, has beat-to-beat variations in morphology.