Legionella are bacteria that live in water that can cause two types of illness in humans: Legionnaires’ disease and Pontiac fever. Legionnaires’ disease is a serious respiratory illness that results in pneumonia. 
A. Legionnaires' disease most often is caused by inhaling water contaminated with rod-shaped bacteria called Legionella pneumophila. There are over 30 different species of Legionella, many of which can cause disease. Legionella pneumophila is the most common species that causes disease. Legionellosis is a common name for one of the several illnesses caused by Legionnaires' disease bacteria (LDB). Legionnaires' disease is an infection of the lungs that is a form of pneumonia.
Legionella in the Environment. Legionnaires' disease (LEE-juh-nares) is caused by a type of bacteria called Legionella. The Legionella bacteria are found naturally in the environment, usually in water. The bacteria grow best in warm water, like the kind found in. 1  Hot tubs. 2  Cooling towers. 3  Hot water tanks. 4  Large plumbing systems.
Pontiac fever and Legionnaires' disease may also be called legionellosis (LEE-juh-nuh-low-sis) separately or together. Legionellosis is a term for any disease caused by Legionella bacteria. 1  Causes & Transmission Explains the spread of the disease, environment, exposure... 
Legionnaires' disease, also known as legionellosis or Legion fever, is a form of atypical pneumonia caused by any type of Legionella bacteria. Over 90% of cases of Legionnaires' disease are caused by Legionella pneumophila. Other causative species include L. longbeachae, L. feeleii, L. micdadei, and L. anisa. The length of time between exposure to the bacteria and the appearance of symptoms is generally two to 10 days, but can rarely extend to as much as 20 days. For the general population, among those exposed between 0.1 to 5% develop disease, while among those in hospital between 0.4 to 14% develop disease.
The genus Legionella is a pathogenic group of Gram-negative bacteria that includes the species L. pneumophila, causing legionellosis (all illnesses caused by Legionella) including a pneumonia-type illness called Legionnaires' disease and a mild flu-like illness called Pontiac fever. 
Legionella is a type of bacteria that can cause a serious form of pneumonia called Legionnaires disease. Legionella testing detects the presence of the bacteria to help diagnose the cause of a person's pneumonia. A legionella infection affects the lower respiratory tract, often requires hospitalization, and has a significant mortality rate. In addition to pneumonia, Legionella bacteria can also cause Pontiac fever, a milder and self-limiting illness with flu-like symptoms. Together, Legionnaires disease and Pontiac fever are referred to as legionellosis. Legionella bacteria are found naturally throughout the environment
Legionnaires' disease is a type of pneumonia. It is caused by bacteria called Legionella pneumophila. The bacteria got its name in 1976, when a group of people attending an American Legion convention became infected. 
Legionellosis, or Legionnaire's disease, is a type of pneumonia caused by Legionella bacteria. Legionnaires' disease is not contagious, and you cannot catch it from another person. The bacteria are common and grow in water. People often receive low-level exposure in the environment without getting sick. 