Technical Support. Maintenance contracts can also provide technical support if the client is attempting to make a repair or create a resolution of a problem on her own. The contract will provide a specific amount of time with a consultant on the phone walking the client through repairs and updates. The contract should spell out the length of time the contract is in effect as well as the amount of service calls provided during a specific term (usually a limited number of calls per month).
This contract for equipment maintenance services between __________________ (hereafter referred to as Client) and _____________ (hereafter referred to as Contractor) is made and entered into on MM/DD/YYYY. 
Use this free maintenance contract to get responsibilities, time frames, fees and expenses down in writing. And if you're a maintenance contractor, consider creating a new maintenance contract whenever new clients come on board. We also offer a full list of service contracts for service providers and recipients in every industry. Other names for this document: Maintenance Service Agreement.
Contracts for maintenance are usually offered for an additional fee, and may be considered an add-on to a service contract. One of the most common examples of maintenance contracts is the additional protection offered as part of many vehicle purchases. With just about all maintenance contracts, there are limits on what the agreement covers. Often, necessary repairs or replacements conducted as part of the maintenance are offered at no charge, up to a certain amount.
A contractual maintenance agreement is a contract under which a service provider agrees to perform maintenance services. Reasons for entering into such contracts by a consumer may include, among others, the impracticality of staffing and equipping maintenance facilities or lack of a technical support staff to develop effective maintenance programs.
Top 10 facts about the world. Maintenance contracts are agreements that define the range of support services provided after the purchase of a major appliance, vehicle, property, and other high ticket item. With just about all maintenance contracts, there are limits on what the agreement covers. Often, necessary repairs or replacements conducted as part of the maintenance are offered at no charge, up to a certain amount.
1. Maintenance contracts are an important part of any computer business. They allow you to create a steady stream of income in the relatively unsteady business of computer repair. In this article we will talk a little bit about maintenance contracts and how to get them. 
A maintenance contract with a service provider is far cheaper, requiring a monthly fee that covers repairs that arise unexpectedly. Family homeowners can also purchase home service warranties, which will provide for upkeep of the home at fixed rates. The contract should spell out the length of time the contract is in effect as well as the amount of service calls provided during a specific term (usually a limited number of calls per month).
Service contracts may include towing, rental and emergency road service. Under a maintenance agreement, the maker of the agreement is obligated to perform regularly scheduled maintenance of property, such as regularly scheduled oil changes for an automobile. Ins. Law ยง 7902(d) (McKinney 2000): (d) Maintenance agreement means a contract of limited duration that provides for scheduled maintenance of property, other than contracts providing for the repair or replacement of such property due to a defect in materials or workmanship or wear and tear.
Contractual Maintenance Agreement Law & Legal Definition. A contractual maintenance agreement is a contract under which a service provider agrees to perform maintenance services. Contracts vary, and may include the costs or servicing and/or materials. Reasons for entering into such contracts by a consumer may include, among others, the impracticality of staffing and equipping maintenance facilities or lack of a technical support staff to develop effective maintenance programs.