Live Rock is rubble that has broken off a coral reef structure by natural means such as hurricanes and tropical storms. This broken off rubble is called live rock because of all the living organisms that are found on and within the rock. The many holes and crannies in this rock give it a tremendous amount of surface area for the beneficial aerobic (needs oxygen) and anaerobic (does not need oxygen) bacteria to live on. This is what makes saltwater live rock such a great biological filter for your tank.
Live rock is harvested for use in the aquarium trade from collections in the wild near reefs, where parts may become detached from the central body of coral by storms. It may also be seeded from small coralline rocks by an aquaculturalist in warm ocean water, to be harvested later. Base rock, or dry rock, is a generic term for aragonite rock that has no organisms growing in or on the rock. Base rock is often used as filler rock in the aquarium as it is much cheaper to purchase than live rock. In time, base rock will become colonized by living organisms.
Live rock is rock from the ocean that has been introduced into a saltwater aquarium. Along with live sand, it confers to the closed marine system multiple benefits desired by the saltwater aquarium hobbyist. Base rock, or dry rock, is a generic term for aragonite rock that has no organisms growing in or on the rock. Base rock is often used as filler rock in the aquarium as it is much cheaper to purchase than live rock. In time, base rock will become colonized by living organisms.
When taken from the ocean it is usually encrusted with coralline algae and inhabited by a multitude of marine organisms. The many forms of micro and macroscopic marine life that live on and inside of the rock, which acts as an ideal habitat, give it the name live rock. Base rock, or dry rock, is a generic term for aragonite rock that has no organisms growing in or on the rock. Base rock is often used as filler rock in the aquarium as it is much cheaper to purchase than live rock. In time, base rock will become colonized by living
Live rock is usually extremely porous and is used as the primary biological filter in saltwater tanks that have it. The many holes and crannies in this rock give it a tremendous amount of surface area for the beneficial aerobic (needs oxygen) and anaerobic (does not need oxygen) bacteria to live on. This is what makes saltwater live rock such a great biological filter for your tank. The beneficial bacteria helps convert the ammonia from fish waste and uneaten fish food into nitrIte. The second step is when this bacteria converts the nitrIte into nitrAte
After the live rock is collected, it is placed under a constant spray of saltwater to remove unwanted organisms while nourishing the corals, algaes, and other beneficial life forms on the rock. Ready To Ship - 13 Varieties Of Aquarium Live Rock Free Live Rock Shipping-All Live rock orders receive free shipping. Further live rock in the aquarium benefits come from adding an important food source for certain species, and also helps to keep your aquarium water crystal clear.
A. Live rock is found in the reef areas of the oceans. Currently, most live rock used in the aquarium trade is harvested from the either the Caribbean or the Indo-Pacific areas. While it is illegal to harvest live rock in Hawaii, base rock is being quarried on the island of Oahu. Since live rock comes from dead corals, the shape, texture and porosity of the live rock will reflect the corals which were endemic to the area at the time the rock was formed. Live rock will contain flora, fauna and Coralline algae which is endemic to the area from which it is harvested.
A. Live rock is pieces of dead coral skeletons which have been harvested from coral reef areas. In the wild, live rock harbors both flora and fauna as well as beneficial (biological) bacteria. Since live rock comes from dead corals, the shape, texture and porosity of the live rock will reflect the corals which were endemic to the area at the time the rock was formed. Live rock will contain flora, fauna and Coralline algae which is endemic to the area from which it is harvested.
What is Live Rock Live rock is a major decorative element of the saltwater aquarium and provides nescessary shelter for many marine inhabitants. The different names of rock refer to the island locations where the rock was collected from, such as Fiji live rock, and Tonga live rock. This is simple by either adding your live rock first with your live sand, and waiting a 14 to 28 days till 0 ammonia shows upon water testing; or you may place the live rock in a container with saltwater and a small powerhead for water movement.
Aquarium live rock is full of beneficial organisms that add crucial biodiversity to the saltwater aquarium. Further live rock in the aquarium benefits come from adding an important food source for certain species, and also helps to keep your aquarium water crystal clear.