Asparagus is usually steamed as whole stalks, but it can be steamed cut into bite-size pieces, if you like. Whether you steam it whole or chopped, place asparagus in a steamer rack and set over boiling water. Cover and cook until asparagus is tender, 4 to 8 minutes depending on the thickness of the asparagus stalks. To Microwave asparagus: Set asparagus in a microwave-safe baking dish, add 2 tablespoons of water, cover, and microwave on high until tender, 2 to 3 minutes. Let stand, still covered, another 3 minutes or so.
1 Add salt and butter, and bring to a boil. 2  Trim the dry ends off of the asparagus. 3  If the spears are thick, peel them lightly with a vegetable peeler. 4  Place them in the top half of the steamer pan set. 5  Steam for 5 to 10 minutes depending on the thickness of the asparagus, or until asparagus is tender. 1 If the spears are thick, peel them lightly with a vegetable peeler. 2  Place them in the top half of the steamer pan set. 3  Steam for 5 to 10 minutes depending on the thickness of the asparagus, or until asparagus is tender.
To steam asparagus with a basic vegetable steamer, arrange the asparagus on the steamer and place it in a pot filled with about 1 inch/2.5cm of boiling water. Don't worry too much if they don't fit in a single layer. Cover and steam for 5-6 minutes until tender. 
Heat a large frying pan over high heat, add cooking oil or butter and asparagus and cook, stirring, until the asparagus is tender, about 5 minutes depending on how thick the spears are. Try this recipe for Sauteed Asparagus and Morels to get a real hit of spring. Steamed Asparagus With Vinaigrette and Egg. To Microwave asparagus: Set asparagus in a microwave-safe baking dish, add 2 tablespoons of water, cover, and microwave on high until tender, 2 to 3 minutes. Let stand, still covered, another 3 minutes or so.
Cut the asparagus to fit into your steamer basket. Cover and steam until the asparagus are bright green and tender, but still somewhat crisp, about 6 to 8 minutes for thick asparagus and 3 to 5 minutes for thin asparagus. Remove from the steamer and season with salt and pepper. Recipe courtesy of Wolfgang Puck, 2003
1 Trim the dry ends off of the asparagus. 2  If the spears are thick, peel them lightly with a vegetable peeler. 3  Place them in the top half of the steamer pan set. 4  Steam for 5 to 10 minutes depending on the thickness of the asparagus, or until asparagus is tender. 1 If the spears are thick, peel them lightly with a vegetable peeler. 2  Place them in the top half of the steamer pan set. 3  Steam for 5 to 10 minutes depending on the thickness of the asparagus, or until asparagus is tender.
Set the microwave on high heat and cook the asparagus about 2 minutes and 30 seconds. If you want your asparagus to be more tender, cook it for another 30 seconds or so. Be sure not to overcook asparagus. 
1 Place them in the top half of the steamer pan set. 2  Steam for 5 to 10 minutes depending on the thickness of the asparagus, or until asparagus is tender. 1 If the spears are thick, peel them lightly with a vegetable peeler. 2  Place them in the top half of the steamer pan set. 3  Steam for 5 to 10 minutes depending on the thickness of the asparagus, or until asparagus is tender.
How to Cook Asparagus on the Stove. To steam asparagus, lay the spears in a large skillet and top with 1 inch of water. Lightly salt the water and bring to a simmer. Cook, covered, for 3 to 5 minutes or until crisp-tender. Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F. Place asparagus on a baking sheet or in a baking dish and drizzle with 1 tablespoon olive oil. Toss lightly to coat. If desired, season with salt and black pepper. Roast, uncovered, about 15 minutes or until crisp-tender, lightly tossing twice during roasting.