Sponsorship packages almost always consist of a sponsorship proposal letter and an accompanying document describing the sponsorship levels that you are offering. Although both of these documents are important, the sponsorship proposal letter is where you will do most of your convincing.
This will give you an idea as to the cost of a sponsorship at each level. Know in advance that you may have to be flexible and customize levels for some sponsors to meet their marketing needs. Some sponsors might be interested in a half cash, half in-kind (product donation) sponsorship.
Sponsorship levels should reflect the needs of your specific non-profit or charity event or organization. Decide sponsorship levels based on your budget, the diversity of sponsors you'd like to attract and the perks the sponsors will receive in exchange for their donations.
Look for companies that sponsor other events or activities similar to yours. Use the research that other organizations have done before you to help give you an edge. If you are looking for a special event sponsorship for a walk or running event, look at other runs in your area and look at who the sponsors were.
Sponsorship Levels Document. If you do manage to get the attention of a prospective sponsor with your sponsorship proposal letter, they will eventually want to know more about what you are offering in exchange for their money. Remember that sponsorship isn't the same as free money.
PandaTip: This Sponsorship Proposal Template is written in the context of pitching a sponsorship deal to a business for a particular event, be it a conference, sporting event, or otherwise.
Here are the top things to consider when setting your sponsorship levels and dollar amounts: 1  Determine the funds you will need in order to produce the event That is usually the best total to shoot for when creating different buy-in amounts for your sponsors. 2  Especially if it’s a charity event.
If your event is quite small, your entry-level sponsors might simply receive a small ad in an accompanying program or flyer for $50. For larger events, sponsor levels might begin at $200, $500 or even $1,000. Depending on audience size and publicity opportunities, cost of a title sponsorship could range from $750 to $10,000. Title sponsors receive maximum publicity, and their logo should appear in ALL publicity material.