She has just signed on to the romantic comedies Wedding Banned with Robin Williams and TMI with Ryan Reynolds. Hit the jump for details on both projects. According to THR, Anna Faris and Robin Williams will co-star in Wedding Banned.
This movie is laugh-out-loud funny! Ryan Reynolds plays Chris who is smitten with Jamie Palomino back in high school, but Jamie thinks of him only as a friend.
Chris Brander has always been friends with Jamie Palamino, but now decides it is time to take his relationship to the next step. The problem is that Jamie still wants to be 'Just Friends'. When he runs away and moves to L.A., he becomes an attractive music manager, whom everyone wants.
It looks like Anna Faris is going to have a very busy 2010. A couple of weeks ago we told you about her plans to visit Jellystone Park next year when she stars in the Yogi Bear movie. Now we have news today of two more projects that will star the talented young comedienne.
I recently watched the comedy Just Friends starring Anna Faris and Ryan Reynolds so decided to check this one out which focuses on the pair waiting on tables in a restaurant, the difficult customers in the restaurant and the crazy mix of staff.
Biography. Difficult to recognize in her natural blonde state following her turn as a raven-haired Neve Campbell knockoff in Scary Movie (2000), Anna Faris made her professional acting debut at the tender age of nine at Washington's Seattle Repertory Theater.
Both Ryan Reynolds and Anna Faris should be familiar with each other by now (and you should be familiar with them as an on-screen duo), as they've starred opposite one another in two pretty underrated comedies: Just Friends and Waiting.
An accidental meeting with Jamie, who's unmarried, gives Chris an opportunity to win her love. His plans go awry. Ryan Reynolds as Chris is sometimes a smug performer, but he can be very funny. Anna Faris is absolutely hilarious as the female pop singer with delusions of grandeur.
For the film, Faris, along with her co-stars, received a Screen Actors Guild Award nomination for Outstanding Performance by a Cast in a Motion Picture. In 2005, she also appeared in the comedies Waiting... and Just Friends both alongside Ryan Reynolds.
Just Friends is a 2005 American romantic comedy and Christmas film directed by Roger Kumble, and starring Ryan Reynolds, Amy Smart, Anna Faris, Chris Klein and Christopher Maquette.