For example, vitamin D aids in absorption of calcium from your horse's small intestine, while vitamin E scavenges for damaging free radicals, and helps to protect the body's cell membranes. In contrast to vitamins, minerals have a definition separate from their role in body functioning.
In addition to the amount of mineral required daily, the ratios of minerals with each other and with other components of the ration are important due to effects on absorption, metabolism and/or excretion. In particular, a critical consideration in mineral nutrition of the horse is the calcium to phosphorus (Ca:P) ratio.
Detecting deficiencies. The reason why many horse owners are oblivious to the vitamin and mineral content of the diet is simple – a mild deficiency of any of these minerals or vitamins is difficult to visually see in the horse. For example, a deficiency in calorie content of the diet can easily be seen as weight loss.
Not only are individual minerals important, but so are the ratios in comparison to each other. The most well-known ratio in the horse diet is the calcium:phosphorus ratio, but there are other important ratios as well. These ratios are so important because the concentration of one mineral will exert influence over the absorption, metabolism, and use of other minerals, vitamins, and nutrients.
Vitamin and mineral nutrition of the horse. Marcia Hathaway, PhD. Department of Animal Science, University of Minnesota. Minerals are inorganic nutrients that are needed in relatively small quantities by the horse. The essential major minerals are calcium, phosphorus, magnesium, sodium, chloride, potassium and sulfur. The essential trace minerals needed are iron, zinc, copper, selenium, manganese, iodine, and cobalt.
Minerals. As with vitamins, the majority of your horse's mineral needs are met with a basic ration of pasture and hay. In some instances, the ratio between two minerals is as important as the actual amount available, because one might influence absorption or activity of another.