1 Of the population, 36.6% live in a temperate/ mesothermal climate with significant precipitation in all seasons (Cf), 60.2% live in a temperate/ mesothermal climate with dry summers (Cs), 3.2% live in a alpine/ highland climate (H). 
Rome's weather varies from very hot in the summer to distinctly cool in the winter, and rather damp in the autumn. However, the weather is rarely severe or disruptive, and so your preferred season for visiting Rome will largely depend on what you want to get from your holiday. Temperatures in March and April tend to be a comfortable 15-18°C but it can rain on as many as 1 in 3 days, so take a lightweight jacket or an umbrella. As the spring flowers bloom, Rome's parks become especially beautiful, and it's often the perfect weather for picnics.
The weather in Rome during the autumn months can be quite wet, with around 4 inches of rain each month, and rain every few days on average. However, temperatures are still pleasantly mild and the historic sites are less crowded, so this is definitely an appealing time of year for your Roman visit. Temperatures in March and April tend to be a comfortable 15-18°C but it can rain on as many as 1 in 3 days, so take a lightweight jacket or an umbrella. As the spring flowers bloom, Rome's parks become especially beautiful, and it's often the perfect weather for picnics.
As can be imagined, the south of Italy has the least rain and the most hours of sunshine of any other area in Italy. In Sardinia and Sicily, there is an average of 4 hours of sunshine a day during the winter and 9 hours a day in the summer. Italian Wind Directions Live weather forecast for Italy Climate in Abruzzo. Italy is a country of extremely varied landscapes and consequently experiences a similarly varied climate. Between the north and south there can be a considerable difference in temperature, particularly during the winter.
Rome: Annual Weather Averages. July is the hottest month in Rome with an average temperature of 26°C (78°F) and the coldest is January at 8°C (46°F) with the most daily sunshine hours at 14 in July. The wettest month is December with an average of 96mm of rain. 
The average annual temperatures are listed below in degrees Celsius and Fahrenheit for dozens of places throughout Italy, including major cities, ski resorts and beaches. The tables give the maximum and minimum yearly temperatures based on weather data collected from 1971 to 2000. Northeastern Italy. This section takes in the regions of Emilia-Romagna, Friuli-Venezia Giulia, Trentino-Alto Adige and Veneto. Three weather stations on the list are located at over 2000 metres (6560 feet) elevation: Paganella and Passo Rolle in the Dolomites and Monte Cimone of the Apennine Mountains.
Average temperatures. Temperatures vary widely in Italy, in the north, centre or south of the country. The table below illustrates the monthly average minimum and maximum temperatures for three cities, one for each climate area. The climate varies considerably from the north to the south of Italy. In the north of the country-the area between the Alps and the Tuscan-Emilian Apennines-the climate is harsh, with very cold winters and very hot, particularly humid summers.
In our article on the average weather in Italy we gave you an overview of the ups and downs of weather in Italy throughout the year and some average temperatures to help you plan your next trip. Here, you'll get a handy overview of the average temperatures and precipitations in the North, Centre and South of Italy. Easy to consult, keep an eye on them when packing for your next Italian holiday ! Average temperature is good enough to enjoy some sun. Sunbathing in Torcello, Venice
Italian climate, average temperatures, rainfall, hours of sunshine, regional climate italy, weather forecasts italy, climate variations italy. Profile Menu. The Climate of Italy. Italy is a country of extremely varied landscapes and consequently experiences a similarly varied climate. Between the north and south there can be a considerable difference in temperature, particularly during the winter.