Most workers (65 percent) base their retirement date on their eligibility for Medicare at age 65, Towers Watson found. Continuing to work for a company that provides benefits is one of the most cost-effective ways to find health insurance before age 65.
If you leave your employer before retirement age and you are in a defined contribution plan (such as a 401(k) plan), in most cases you will be able to transfer your account balance out of your employer s plan.
So the rules about how old you have to be and how long you have to work before you qualify for reduced or full retirement benefits differ depending on when you were hired and joined the retirement system. To better understand your plan, speak to a union pension consultant at your UFT borough office.
To take early retirement, a member who joined the system before September 1, 2007, must be 55 years old, with at least five years of service, or any age below 50, with 30 or more years of service, as long as the member's age and years of service is less than 80.
(A cash-balance plan, by contrast, allows you to take your money with you when you leave a job.). When you reach retirement age, you need to get back in touch with the folks who run the pension for your old company and apply for your benefit.
Most Americans no longer aspire to retire early. Workers are increasingly pushing back their desired retirement age and wondering if they will be able to retire at all. The age workers expect to retire has increased from an average of 60 in 1995 to 66 in 2011, according to a Gallup poll. The proportion of people aiming to retire early has plummeted from 50 percent in 1995 to 28 percent in 2011. Most Americans now expect to retire at age 65 or later. [See The 10 Best Places to Retire in 2012 .]. It's just not possible for people to work for 30 or 40 years and support themselves on their assets for another 20 or 30 years, says Alicia Munnell, director of the Center for Retirement Research at Boston College.
If you have a question about your retirement plan, you can start by looking for an answer in the information that the plan provides. You can request this information from your plan administrator, the person who is in charge of running the plan. Your employer can tell you how to contact your plan administrator.