Seborrheic Dermatitis. Seborrheic dermatitis can affect the upper chest and have round, red areas in addition to slight scaling. Seborrheic dermatitis is a common skin condition that is similar to eczema and sometimes occurs in patients with eczema. In babies, it tends to mostly affect the scalp and is known as “cradle cap”
Seborrheic dermatitis on the face. Seborrheic (seb-o-REE-ik) dermatitis is a common skin condition that mainly affects your scalp. It causes scaly patches, red skin and stubborn dandruff. Seborrheic dermatitis can also affect oily areas of the body, such as the face, upper chest and back. 
Dandruff. Cradle cap. That red, itchy rash with flaky scales could be seborrheic dermatitis, or seborrhea. It's a common skin disease that looks similar to psoriasis, eczema, or an allergic reaction. And it can appear on your body as well as your scalp. 
Seborrheic (seb-oh-REE-ick) dermatitis may be the most common skin condition to occur at the same time as rosacea. Although the two disorders are unrelated, a recent clinical study found that 26 percent of patients with rosacea also had facial seborrheic dermatitis and 28 percent had seborrheic dermatitis of the scalp. 
Seborrheic dermatitis is a common, inflammatory skin condition that causes flaky, white to yellowish scales to form on oily areas such as the scalp, face or inside the ear. It can occur with or without reddened skin. A.D.A.M. Cradle cap is the term used when seborrheic dermatitis affects the scalp of infants. 
Seborrheic dermatitis is a chronic skin inflammation that becomes worse and better spontaneously. Seborrheic dermatitis causes an eczema-type eruption commonly affecting portions of the head and upper torso. Seborrheic dermatitis is also known as seborrhea. 
Overview of Seborrheic Dermatitis. Seborrheic dermatitis is a common, chronic condition that occurs in areas of the skin where there are large oil glands —the middle of the face, behind the ears, and especially on the scalp (dandruff). The condition is characterized by waxy scale and reddened skin areas. 
Doctors don't yet know the exact cause of seborrheic dermatitis. But it may be related to: 1  A yeast (fungus) called malassezia that is in the oil secretion on the skin. 2  An inflammatory response related to psoriasis. 3  The season, with episodes tending to be worse in early spring and winter. 4  Symptoms. 5  Risk factors. 
Seborrheic dermatitis is a common, inflammatory skin condition that causes flaky, white to yellowish scales to form on oily areas such as the scalp, face or inside the ear. It can occur with or without reddened skin. Cradle cap is the term used when seborrheic dermatitis affects the scalp of infants. Seborrheic dermatitis can occur on different body areas. Usually it forms where the skin is oily or greasy. Common areas include the scalp, eyebrows, eyelids, creases of the nose, lips, behind the ears, in the outer ear, and middle of the chest.
Seborrheic dermatitis, also known as seborrhea, sebopsoriasis, seborrheic eczema, dandruff and pityriasis capitis, is a chronic, relapsing and usually mild dermatitis. In infants seborrheic dermatitis is called cradle cap. Seborrheic dermatitis is an inflammatory skin disorder affecting the scalp, face, and torso. Typically, seborrheic dermatitis presents with scaly, flaky, itchy, and red skin. It particularly affects the sebaceous-gland-rich areas of skin. 