Similar in sound to the French  Thibault , which is far more popular, Tybalt is best known as the bloodlustful and brawling cousin of Juliet in Shakespeare 's Romeo and Juliet. Perhaps this connotation has kept parents from using Tybalt. 
Shakespeare is drawing less than subtle parallels. Juliet: A name of Latin origin, meaning “youthful; Jove’s child”. Shakespeare moved the events of his “Romeo and Juliet” from that of the source text, his play takes place in July while Brooke’s was clearly set around Christmas. One theory for this is that “Juliet” is associated with “July”. 
Shakespearean Meaning: The name Tybalt is a Shakespearean baby name. In Shakespearean the meaning of the name Tybalt is: The Tragedy of Romeo And Juliet' Nephew to Lady Capulet. SoulUrge Number: 1. Expression Number: 8. People with this name have a deep inner desire to use their abilities in leadership, and to have personal independence. 
Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Tybalt and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Tybalt and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. Instead, we recommend that you pay a greater attention to the origin and meaning of the name Tybalt. Read our baby name articles for useful tips regarding baby names and naming your baby. If you are thinking of giving your baby the beautiful name Tybalt, spread the love and share this with your friends.
Medieval form of THEOBALD. This is the name of a cousin of Juliet killed by Romeo in Shakespeare 's drama 'Romeo and Juliet' (1596). 
Tweet. [ 2 syll. ty-bal(t) , tyb-a- lt ] The baby boy name Tybalt is pronounced as T IY-BowLT †. Tybalt is of Germanic origin and it is used mainly in English. Tybalt is a variant transcription of Theobald (English and German). Tybalt is seldom used as a baby name for boys. It is not listed within the top 1000 names
Tybalt is the main antagonist in William Shakespeare 's play Romeo and Juliet. He is Lady Capulet's nephew, Juliet 's short-tempered cousin, and Romeo 's rival. Tybalt shares the same name as the character Tibert/Tybalt the Prince of Cats in Reynard the Fox, a point of mockery in the play.
Tybalt /ty-balt/ [2 sylls.] as a name for boys is of Old German origin, and the name Tybalt means brave people. Tybalt is a variant transcription of Theobald (Old German). Tewalt is a common surname. Tybalt is a rare first name for men. Tybalt is an equally unique surname for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census). Prominent varying forms of Tybalt (outside Top 1000) are Ted, Teddy and Theo (#509 last year) .
Nicknames for Tybalt: | Edit. Share what you know! Meanings and history of the name Tybalt: | Edit. Share what you know! Famous real-life people named Tybalt: | Edit. Share what you know! Tybalt in song, story & screen: | Edit. Juliet's cousin in Shakespeare's Romeo and Juliet. Tybalt shares the same name with the Tibert/Tybalt character in Reynard the Fox, a set of European fables. Tybalt is the King of Cats in those stories. 