Cibolo Creek rises in the Texas Hill Country northwest of Boerne in Kendall County, Texas. Every second, approximately 30 cubic feet (850 L) of water pass through on its southeastern journey to the San Antonio River. The creek serves as a tributary of the San Antonio River and forms the easternmost boundary of its watershed. The stream is used for both recreational and political purposes, serving as the eastern boundary of Bexar County, Texas.
Concerned over flooding in Boerne, city forefathers recognized a need to create a means to assist with flood control. An application was made to the Texas Water Commission to seek approval for water rights in the Cibolo Creek Watershed of the San Antonio River Basin. The Texas Water Commission granted permission to the City of Boerne on January 7, 1972, to construct and maintain a dam and reservoir on Cibolo Creek for municipal purposes to aid in flood control. In September 2005, the Boerne City Council approved development of City Lake Park
May 25, 2015 | 2369 views | 0 | 1 | |. The National Weather Service updated their forecast for the Karnes County areas near Cibolo Creek and the San Antonio River. Major flooding is expected in areas near the Cibolo Creek where it crosses Karnes County. The creek is expected to crest at 27.2 feet near the monitoring station near Cestohowa at about 12:30 p.m., Tuesday, May 26. Minor flooding is expected in areas near the San Antonio River near Falls City. The river is expected to crest at 12.7 feet at noon, Tuesday, May 26.
By John MacCormack. In Boerne, several hundred people were evacuated from the Creekside Apartments when the Cibolo Creek began rising Saturday, flooding cars and entering ground floor dwellings. We evacuated the whole complex and opened a temporary shelter in the Boerne. Middle School North. 
The graph on the left is from the headwaters of the Cibolo Creek at about 2000 feet above sea level to the confluence at about 200 feet above sea level. Recognize that the Creek's passage through the Balcones Escarpment is between the 70 mile marker and the 80 mile marker. The Cibolo Creek watershed (green) joins the San Antonio River much further downstream, 1 mile east of Panna Maria in Karnes County.
Dogs turn up in flood aftermath without identification. BOERNE, Texas — Cibolo Creek flooded after more than 3 inches of rain fell Saturday in this area about 35 miles northwest of San Antonio. But the storm did more than bring record amounts of rain; it also scared away a lot of pets. Jesenia Bazan Moreno rescued a basset hound in the middle of deluge. 
Additionally, numerous human settlements have been founded on the creek, such as Boerne, Fair Oaks Ranch, San Antonio, Bulverde, Bracken, Selma, Schertz, Universal City, Cibolo, Zuehl, New Berlin, La Vernia, Cestohowa, Kosciusko, Sutherland Springs and Panna Maria. The creek serves as a tributary of the San Antonio River and forms the easternmost boundary of its watershed. The stream is used for both recreational and political purposes, serving as the eastern boundary of Bexar County, Texas.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Cibolo Creek is a stream in South Central Texas, United States that runs approximately 96 miles (154 km) from its source at Turkey Knob (in the Texas Hill Country) near Boerne, Texas, to its confluence with the San Antonio River in Karnes County. The creek serves as a tributary of the San Antonio River and forms the easternmost boundary of its watershed. The stream is used for both recreational and political purposes, serving as the eastern boundary of Bexar County, Texas.