Atherosclerosis, or hardening of the arteries, is a condition in which plaque builds up inside the arteries. Plaque is made of cholesterol, fatty substances, cellular waste products, calcium and fibrin (a clotting material in the blood). Atherosclerosis is a type of arteriosclerosis. 
High blood pressure. The arteries are the large blood vessels that carry blood from the heart to all the organs and muscles of the body, to give them the energy and oxygen they need. The arteries manage the flow of blood by controlling the speed and direction it flows in.
The diameter of the aorta gradually decreases as blood flow is directed to tissue and organs, flowing through arteries then the smaller arterioles then the capillary beds at the target organ, tissue, etc. Here the oxygen is liberated to the tissue and the blood picks up the resulting CO2. · just now. Report Abuse. Oxygenated blood flows from the lungs to the left atrium contractions (heart muscle) cause the blood to leave the atrium and enter the left ventricle. Further contraction causes the blood to leave the atrium and enter the aorta. Under the pressure created by the continuously beating heart, the blood flows through the aorta (major artery), reaching the point where the aorta branches off towards the upper body (face, neck brain etc) and the lower body
The three types of blood vessels are the arteries, veins, and capillaries. *Arteries are the vessels that carry blood away from your heart to the different parts of your body *Veins carries non-oxygenated blood to the heart *Capillary tubes with very thin walls which join arteries to veins. 
1 The pulmonary vein empties oxygen-rich blood from the lungs into the left atrium of the heart. 2  As the atrium contracts, blood flows from your left atrium into your left ventricle through the open mitral valve. Right Side of the Heart. 1  Blood enters the heart through two large veins, the inferior and superior vena cava, emptying oxygen-poor blood from the body into the right atrium of the heart. 2  As the atrium contracts, blood flows from your right atrium into your right ventricle through the open tricuspid valve.
The heart is a pumping system which takes in deoxygenated blood through the veins and delivers it to the lungs for oxygenation before pumping it into the various arteries (which provide oxygen and nutrients to body tissues by transporting the blood throughout the body). The right side of the heart receives deoxygenated blood from the systemic veins and pumps it to the lungs for oxygenation. The left side of the heart receives oxygenated blood from the lungs and pumps it through the systemic arteries to the tissues of the body.
1 Blood enters the heart through two large veins, the inferior and superior vena cava, emptying oxygen-poor blood from the body into the right atrium of the heart. 2  As the atrium contracts, blood flows from your right atrium into your right ventricle through the open tricuspid valve. Right Side of the Heart. 1 
Arteries. The arteries (red) carry oxygen and nutrients away from your heart, to your body's tissues. The veins (blue) take oxygen-poor blood back to the heart. 1  Arteries begin with the aorta, the large artery leaving the heart. 2  They carry oxygen-rich blood away from the heart to all of the body's tissues. 3  They branch several times, becoming smaller and smaller as they carry blood further from the heart
Left Side of the Heart. 1  The pulmonary vein empties oxygen-rich blood from the lungs into the left atrium of the heart. 2  As the atrium contracts, blood flows from your left atrium into your left ventricle through the open mitral valve. 3  When the ventricle is full, the mitral valve shuts. Right Side of the Heart. 1  Blood enters the heart through two large veins, the inferior and superior vena cava, emptying oxygen-poor blood from the body into the right atrium of the heart. 2  As the atrium contracts, blood flows from your right atrium into your right ventricle through the open tricuspid valve.