A urinalysis is a group of chemical and microscopic tests. They detect the byproducts of normal and abnormal metabolism, cells, cellular fragments, and bacteria in urine. Urine is produced by the kidneys, two fist-sized organs located on either side of the spine at the bottom of the ribcage.
How the Test is Performed. Most of the time, the sample will be collected as a clean catch urine sample in your health care provider's office or your home. You will use a special kit to collect the urine. A urine sample can also be taken by inserting a thin rubber tube (catheter) through the urethra into the bladder.
Urinalysis is a test that evaluates a sample of your urine. Urinalysis is used to detect and assess a wide range of disorders, such as urinary tract infection, kidney disease and diabetes. Urinalysis involves examining the appearance, concentration and content of urine.
A urinalysis is simply an analysis of the urine. It is a very common test that can be performed in many healthcare settings including doctors' offices, urgent care facilities, laboratories, and hospitals.
It is performed by collecting a urine sample from the patient in a specimen cup. Usually only small amounts (30-60 ml's) may be required for urinalysis testing. The sample can be either analyzed in the medical clinic or sent to a laboratory to perform the tests. Urinalysis is abbreviated UA.
Most of the time, the sample will be collected as a clean catch urine sample in your health care provider's office or your home. You will use a special kit to collect the urine. A urine sample can also be taken by inserting a thin rubber tube (catheter) through the urethra into the bladder.
A urine test checks different components of urine, a waste product made by the kidneys. A regular urine test may be done to help find the cause of symptoms. The test can give information about your health and problems you may have.
A urine culture is a test to find and identify germs (usually bacteria) that may be causing a urinary tract infection (UTI) . Urine in the bladder normally is sterile-it does not contain any bacteria or other organisms (such as fungi). But bacteria can enter the urethra and cause an infection.