Clozapine is an atypical antipsychotic medication used in the treatment of schizophrenia, and is also sometimes used off-label for the treatment of bipolar disorder and borderline personality disorder. Clozapine is usually used only in patients that have not responded to other anti-psychotic treatments due to its danger of causing agranulocytosis as well as the costs of having to have blood tests continually during treatment. It is, however, one of the most effective anti-psychotic treatment choices.
Clozapine belongs to a group of medicines called antipsychotics. These medicines work on the balance of chemical substances in the brain. You will be prescribed clozapine by a specialist doctor who will keep a thorough and close check on your progress. Clozapine is prescribed to relieve the symptoms of psychosis. This is the name used by doctors to describe a disordered state of mind. Clozapine is prescribed in particular for people with schizophrenia. 1 If you miss taking clozapine for more than two days, speak with your clinic for advice, as your dose may need adjusting for a short while. 2  You will need to register with a monitoring service, which will make sure it is safe for you to keep taking clozapine. 3  You will be told how to do this by your clinic.
AGRANULOCYTOSIS Because of a significant risk of agranulocytosis, a potentially life-threatening adverse effect, clozapine should be reserved for the use in the treatment of severely ill patients with schizophrenia who fail to show an acceptable response to adequate courses of standard antipsychotics drug treatment. There have been no confirmed cases of TD directly caused by clozapine alone, but patients should be regularly monitored for the development of TD. While agranulocytosis usually occurs most commonly within the first 4–6 months of treatment, you are at risk of this rare adverse effect for as long as you take clozapine.
Lithium can be prescribed to patients with a history of neutropenia as a result of clozapine or other medication or idiopathic neutropenia. Lithium is associated with an increase in the leucocyte count, although there is no evidence that this will prevent neutropenia while on clozapine. 
Clozapine is used to treat severe schizophrenia. Clozapine is also used to reduce the risk of suicidal behavior in people with schizophrenia or similar disorders. Clozapine is usually given after other medications have been tried without successful treatment of symptoms. Clozapine may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide. 
DRUG INFORMATION QUARTERLY The use of clozapine plasmalevels in optimising therapy David Taylor and Denise Duncan Clozapine is well known to be an effectivetreatment for neuroleptic-resistant schizophrenia. 
A person should try clozapine for at least four to six weeks. Some symptoms, such as hallucinations, anxiety, paranoia, and bizarre behavior, should improve within that time; other symptoms may take longer. Additional improvements may be noticed over six to twelve months. There have been no confirmed cases of TD directly caused by clozapine alone, but patients should be regularly monitored for the development of TD. While agranulocytosis usually occurs most commonly within the first 4–6 months of treatment, you are at risk of this rare adverse effect for as long as you take clozapine.
There may be a slightly increased risk of serious, possibly fatal side effects (such as stroke, heart failure, fast/ irregular heartbeat, pneumonia) when this medication is used by older adults with dementia. This medication is not approved for the treatment of dementia-related behavior problems. During the next 6 months, they should be performed at least every 2 weeks. After that, they should be performed regularly no less often than once a month while you are on clozapine and for at least 4 weeks after you stop taking it.
A drop in blood pressure related to a positional change is more likely to occur during initial titration in association with rapid increases in the dose. In patients who have had even a brief interval off clozapine (2 or more days since the last dose), treatment should be started with 12.5 mg once or twice daily. There have been no confirmed cases of TD directly caused by clozapine alone, but patients should be regularly monitored for the development of TD. While agranulocytosis usually occurs most commonly within the first 4–6 months of treatment, you are at risk of this rare adverse effect for as long as you take clozapine.
CLOZAPINE PRECAUTIONS. Before taking clozapine, tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are allergic to it; or to other dibenzodiazepines; or if you have any other allergies. This medication should not be used if you have certain medical conditions. Before using this medicine, consult your doctor or pharmacist if you have: 1  Allergies to clozapine, other dibenzodiazepines or other ingredients of the tablets, 2  an intolerance to certain types of sugar e.g. lactose. 