In the United States, the moonstone is the state gem of Florida. Ironically, the moonstone is not found in Florida. However, in the United States, moonstone can be found in Alabama, California, Connecticut, Georgia, Indiana, Nebraska, New Mexico, North Carolina, Rhode Island, Tennessee, and Virginia. In North Queensland, Australia there is a location known where a lot of moonstone can be found. This location is Moonstone Hill. There is a path for walking that leads up to the hill, and this path glimmers with pieces of moonstone.
Deposits of moonstone occur in Armenia (mainly from Lake Sevan), Australia, the Austrian Alps, Mexico, Madagascar, Myanmar, Norway, Poland, India, Sri Lanka and the United States. It is currently the state gem for Florida, to commemorate the Moon landings, which took off from Florida. 
Cambria Moonstones. Moonstone Gems are a different mineral than the stones found on Cambria's beaches. Most of them come from the India and Sri Lanka area and are found in a variety of colors such as white, blue flash and rainbow. In Cambria we have a beautiful white translucent stone on our beaches. Moonstones-Stones of the Moon-Goddess Power. The name moonstone was coined by the ancient Greeks to describe gemstones that displayed the moon's ethereal silvery light. They valued the moonstone as a talisman for lovers. To wear it was thought to arouse the most tender of passions and true love
While the stone that Moonstone comes from is located throughout the world, the most likely sources of Moonstone are Sri Lanka, India, Tanzania, Brazil, Germany, Mexico and the United States. Moonstone can come in many different colors and one of the more popular and aesthetically pleasing colors is blue. Moonstone also comes in shades of brown, yellow, orange and in a colored or rainbow variety. What makes Moonstone very appealing is the fact that it includes an attribute called adularecence.
Rainbow moonstone is milky white with a rainbow colored sheen. Moonstone is the most valuable form of feldspar and is composed of albite, which gives it the bluish scheen, and orthoclase feldspar. Moonstone is found in Brazil, Germany, India, Madagascar, Mexico, Myanmar, Sri Lanka, Tanzania and the United States. Moonstone was used in jewelry by the Romans who believed that the stone was formed from the light of the moon. Moonstone is considered a sacred stone in India. Moonstone belongs to the large mineral family of feldspars. It is an opalescent stone which can range from colorless to blue, peach, green, pink, yellow, brown or gray with a silvery scheen. This iridescence is known as schiller but in moonstone it is called adularescence. Clarity ranges from transparent to translucent.
Ironically, moonstone is not mined anywhere in Florida, nor is moonstone found on the moon. Our home of Chanthaburi in Thailand would seem like a better choice to adopt the moonstone as a symbol. Chanthaburi means moon town in Thai. 
The most important moonstone deposits are from Sri Lanka and India. Other notable sources include Australia, Brazil, Germany, India, Myanmar (Burma), Madagascar, Mexico, Norway, Switzerland, Tanzania, and the United States. Moonstone can be identified by the presence of adularescence. Other gems with a similar appearance do not have the phenomenal presence of adularescence which makes identification of moonstone fairly easy. Moonstone is a potassium aluminum silicate and can be easily identified by composition.
Moonstone is one of the more common gemstones and it has attributes that many higher priced gemstones don’t have. Moonstone is not an extremely expensive or rare stone, it is a gemstone that is found in feldspar, a stone that makes up 60% of the earth’s crust. Moonstone is popular because of its colors and distinct attributes. Moonstone can come in many different colors and one of the more popular and aesthetically pleasing colors is blue. Moonstone also comes in shades of brown, yellow, orange and in a colored or rainbow variety. What makes Moonstone very appealing is the fact that it includes an attribute called adularecence.
The Moonstone (1868) by Wilkie Collins is a 19th-century British epistolary novel, generally considered the first detective novel in the English language. The story was originally serialised in Charles Dickens ' magazine All the Year Round. The Moonstone and The Woman in White are considered Wilkie Collins' best novels. 