A cyclohexane molecule in chair conformation. Hydrogen atoms in axial positions are shown in red, while those in equatorial positions are in blue. A cyclohexane conformation is any of several three-dimensional shapes that a cyclohexane molecule can assume while maintaining the integrity of its chemical bonds. The carbon-carbon bonds along the cyclohexane ring are sp³ hybrid orbitals, which have tetrahedral symmetry. Therefore, the angles between bonds of a tetravalent carbon atom have a preferred value θ ≈ 109.5°.
Yes, it is. Saturated compounds have no double bonds, and all alkanes (including cyclohexane) have no double bonds. the ending -ane means there are no double bonds. The endi … ng ene means there are one or more double bond (-ene, -diene, -triene, -tetraene). 2 people found this useful. Cyclohexane is a six-carbon cyclic compound with the formula C6H12. In its planar representation, it looks like a regular hexagon, but in its 3D representation, it takes on ei … ther a chair or boat conformation. It has many uses in organic and analytical chemistry. For more information, see the link below
1 Note that in chair cyclohexane, there are two different types of C-H bonds, and thus two chemically different types of hydrogens. 2  The C-H bonds which point vertically upward or downward are called axial. 3  There are 6 of these, 3 upward and 3 downward bonds, and they alternate up/down/up, etc., around the ring. 1 The ground state conformation of cyclohexane is a fully staggered conformation which is shaped somewhat like a chair. 2  In this conformation there is no torsional strain at all, and as we shall see later, no strain of any kind.
Hydrogen-Carbon Bonds. In a nonpolar covalent bond, the electronegativity values of the two atoms are not significantly different, so they equally share electrons. The electronegativity of hydrogen is 2.20, and the electronegativity of carbon is 2.55. Hydrogen-Oxygen and Carbon-Oxygen Bonds. In a polar covalent bond, the electronegativities of the atoms are sufficiently different enough to bias the shared electrons towards one of the two atoms. The electronegativity of oxygen is 3.44.
A covalent bond is a bond between two non-metallic elements. This means that they share electrons inside the molecules. OR A type of chemical bond in which there is mutual sha … ring of electrons between two atoms is called covalent bond. A Covalent bond is a form of chemical bonding that is characterized by the sharing of pairs of electrons between atoms, and other covalent bonds. In short, the attraction-to-r … epulsion stability that forms between atoms when they share electrons is known as covalent bonding. 5 people found this useful.
Covalent bonds form when two atoms have a very small (nearly insignificant) difference in electronegativity. The value of difference in electronegativity between two atoms in a covalent bond is less than 1.7. Covalent bonds often form between similar atoms, nonmetal to nonmetal or metal to metal. Covalent bonding signals a complete sharing of electrons. 
Ethanol, or C2H6O, has two different types of bonding between its constituent atoms. The bonds between the hydrogen and carbon atoms are nonpolar covalent bonds. The hydrogen-oxygen and carbon-oxygen bonds are polar covalent bonds. In turn, these polar covalent bonds can lead to hydrogen bonds forming between ethanol molecules and some other molecules. Hydrogen-Oxygen and Carbon-Oxygen Bonds. In a polar covalent bond, the electronegativities of the atoms are sufficiently different enough to bias the shared electrons towards one of the two atoms. The electronegativity of oxygen is 3.44.
A Covalent (or molecular) bond is a bond between two non-metallic elements. This means that they share electrons inside the molecules. OR A type of chemical bond in which there is mutual sharing of electrons between two atoms is called covalent bond. It is further classified into single, double and triple covalent bond with respect to mutual sharing of one,two and three bonds respectively. A Covalent bond is a form of chemical bonding that is characterized by the sharing of pairs of electrons between atoms, and other covalent bonds. In short, the attraction-to-r … epulsion stability that forms between atoms when they share electrons is known as covalent bonding. 5 people found this useful.