A compilation of these and eight others, called The Federalist; or, The New Constitution, was published in two volumes in 1788 by J. and A. McLean. The collection's original title was The Federalist; the title The Federalist Papers did not emerge until the 20th century. The Federalist Papers appeared in three New York newspapers: The Independent Journal, the New-York Packet, and the Daily Advertiser, beginning on October 27, 1787. Between them, Hamilton, Madison and Jay kept up a rapid pace, with at times three or four new essays by Publius appearing in the papers in a week.
Enter Your Zip Code to Connect with a Lawyer Serving Your Area. The Federalist Papers is a collection of 85 essays advocating ratification of the U.S. Constitution that was published serially in New York newspapers in 1787 and 1788. The authors -- Alexander Hamilton, James Madison, and John Jay -- kept their names secret and used the pseudonym Publius at the time of publication. Originally titled The Federalist, the series of articles came to be known as The Federalist Papers in the 20th century. 
The Federalist Papers. An Advertisement for the Federalist. The Federalist Papers are a series of 85 essays arguing in support of the United States Constitution. Alexander Hamilton, James Madison, and John Jay were the authors behind the pieces, and the three men wrote collectively under the name of Publius. James Madison, Hamilton's major collaborator, later President of the United States and Father of the Constitution.. He wrote 29 of the Federalist Papers, although Madison himself, and many others since then, asserted that he had written more. A known error in Hamilton's list is that he incorrectly ascribed No. 54 to John Jay, when in fact Jay wrote No. 64, has provided some evidence for Madison's suggestion
The Federalist Papers were a series of essays by John Jay, Alexander Hamilton and James Madison written for the Federalist newspaper. John Jay contributed to the Federalist Papers and was in charge of foreign affairs for the fledgling nation. Here Madison argued that a larger republic would not lead to greater abuse of power (as had traditionally been thought), but actually could work to make a large national republic a defense against tyranny.
Introduction. The Federalist Papers consist of eighty-five letters written to newspapers in the late 1780s to urge ratification of the U.S. Constitution. With the Constitution needing approval from nine of thirteen states, the press was inundated with letters about the controversial document. 
John Jay, who authored five of the Federalist Papers essays, was a former president of the Continental Congress and would later serve as the first Chief Justice of the United States. Ad. These papers were written to advocate ratification of the Constitution. The Federalist Papers would come to be known as the most important political treatise in United States history. The essays, which would become a series of 85 articles, were published in seven months between 27 October 1787 and 28 May 1788.
The Federalist (later known as The Federalist Papers) is a collection of 85 articles and essays written by Alexander Hamilton, James Madison, and John Jay (under the pseudonym Publius) promoting the ratification of the United States Constitution. The Federalist Papers appeared in three New York newspapers: The Independent Journal, the New-York Packet, and the Daily Advertiser, beginning on October 27, 1787. Between them, Hamilton, Madison and Jay kept up a rapid pace, with at times three or four new essays by Publius appearing in the papers in a week.
James Madison, author of Federalist No. 10. Federalist No. 10 (Federalist Number 10) is an essay written by James Madison as the tenth of The Federalist Papers, a series arguing for the ratification of the United States Constitution. 
The Federalist Papers are a collection of eighty-five essays written by James Madison, Alexander Hamilton, and John Jay between October 1787 and May 1788. They were written at the time to convince New York State to ratify the U.S. Constitution. There are many reasons for the importance of The Federalist Papers. First, the authors were significant figures during the founding era. James Madison is considered the architect of the Constitution and later served as President of the United States.