Zero degrees Celsius.   The Celsius temperature scale was defined with zero as the freezing point of water, and 100 as the boiling point of water.   (That's for pure f … resh water at sea-level atmospheric pressure.
Celsius, historically known as centigrade, is a scale and unit of measurement for temperature. As an SI derived unit, it is used by most countries in the world. This definition also precisely relates the Celsius scale to the Kelvin scale, which defines the SI base unit of thermodynamic temperature with symbol K. Absolute zero, the lowest temperature possible, is defined as being precisely 0 K and −273.15 °C.
0 C since it is based on the freezing and boiling point of water. 100 C is boiling. However Ice can be colder than the freezing temperature of water so it might be below 0 C. 1 Ice Bath Chemistry An ice bath or cooling bath, used in the chemistry laboratory, is a liquid mixture that is kept at a low temperature, usually 13 degrees Celsius (C) to -196 degrees C.
Snow forms when the atmospheric temperature is at or below freezing (0 degrees Celsius or 32 degrees Fahrenheit) and there is a minimum amount of moisture in the air. If the ground temperature is at or below freezing, the snow will reach the ground. 
· just now. Report Abuse. Pure ice will melt whenever the temperature is above freezing, and pure water will freeze whenever the temperature is below freezing. The Celsius temperature scale was established using the melting point of water as 0° and the boiling point of water as 100°. The answer to your question is that ice as big as a fridge will melt whenever the temperature is above 0°C. 
Regular ice is made from freezing water. Water freezes at zero degrees Celsius, or +32 degrees Fahrenheit. (Most of Europe and all scientists use Celsius because we're lazy and it's easier, but the US is still stuck on the Fahrenheit temperature scale.) Dry ice is made from frozen carbon dioxide gas. Anyway, dry ice is much, much colder because carbon dioxide freezes at a lower temperature:-79 degrees Celsius or -109 degrees Fahrenheit! It's very dangerous to handle dry ice because it will freeze your skin and cause frost bite in less than a minute, causing a painful dry ice burn.
Dry ice, sometimes referred to as  cardice  (chiefly British chemists), is the solid form of carbon dioxide. It is used primarily as a cooling agent. Its advantages include lower temperature than that of water ice and not leaving any residue (other than incidental frost from moisture in the atmosphere). It is useful for preserving frozen foods, ice cream, etc., where mechanical cooling is unavailable.
Fahrenheit. Fahrenheit is a thermodynamic temperature scale, where the freezing point of water is 32 degrees Fahrenheit (°F) and the boiling point 212°F (at standard atmospheric pressure). This puts the boiling and freezing points of water exactly 180 degrees apart. Celsius. Although initially defined by the freezing point of water (and later the melting point of ice), the Celsius scale is now officially a derived scale, defined in relation to the Kelvin temperature scale.