However, most recommend that a freezer's temperature should be maintained cold enough to keep ice cream frozen brick-solid. Ice cream … freezes at about 5°F (-15°C). Therefore, it is recommended that a freezer's temperature be maintained at 0°F (-17°C).
All freezers should be in the 0 to 8 degrees Fahrenheit (approximately -18 degrees to -13 degrees Celsius) range. However, when you first turn on the freezer, or put a lot of food into it, it may take up to 24 hours for the freezer to reach this temperature range.
Your freezer should be set at −18 °C (0 ºF) or lower, but definitely not above −10 ºC (14 ºF). Ice cream will start to soften between −14 °C (6 °F) and −12 °C (10 °F) (well for serving, but not for longer storage). Some yeasts can start to grow around 15°F.
The ideal freezer temperature is 0 Fahrenheit (-18 Celsius) for storing food. And -10 Fahrenheit (-23 Celsius) is recommended when freezing food. The faster food freezes the smaller the ice crystals. The smaller the ice crystals the smaller the change in texture and better quality when thawed.
One of the most basic ways to ensure food safety in your kitchen is to set your refrigerator and freezer to safe temperatures for food storage. According to the Food and Drug Administration, your fridge should be set at or below 40 F (4 C). Your freezer should be set at 0 F (-18 C). Food stored in the freezer at 0 F will remain safe indefinitely, although the quality will decrease the longer the food is in the freezer. Freezing does not change a food's nutritional value.
Turns out the temperature at which food freezes and the freezer temperature it should be stored at can be two different things. Even if your freezer seems to be doing its job, you should know the correct temperature to set it to!
1 Keep the refrigerator temperature at or below 40° F (4° C). 2  The freezer temperature should be 0° F (-18° C). 3  Check temperatures periodically. 4  Appliance thermometers are the best way of knowing these temperatures and are generally inexpensive.
Normally a domestic freezer is best set to −18 °C (0 °F) or colder, as that's what the expiration dates for many food items are based on. It's also a requirement for freezers in restaurants, supermarkets & other places that sell food (at least here in Europe) to maintain a temperature of at most -18 °C.