The cytoplasm is the cytosol and all the organelles (minus the nucleus) in the cell. Its main function is suspension of the organelles, their nutrients, and products. The cytoplasm function in a plant cell is almost similar to the cytoplasm function in an animal cell. it holds all of the cell organelles, or stuff in the cell, together. The cytoplasm acts like the cell s skeleton. it is a jelly like substance around nucleus. The cytoplasms function in a plant cell is to help gel the parts of the cell in place but it is also where many of the cells chemical reactions happen.
The cytoplasm of the animal cell is a gel-like material made of water. It fills the cells and contains proteins and important molecules that are necessary for the cell. The cytoplasm is made of proteins, carbohydrates, salts, sugars, amino acids and nucleotides. Cytoplasm holds all the cellular organelles. 1 The cytoplasm is the place where the cell expands and growth of the cell takes place. 2  The cytoplasm provides a medium for the organelles to remain suspended. 3  The cytoskeleton of the cytoplasm provides shape to the cell and it also facilitates movement.
Best Answer: The cytoplasm function in a plant cell is almost similar to the cytoplasm function in an animal cell. In general, cytoplasm function in a cell is almost a mechanical one. It provides support to the internal structures by being a medium for their suspension. Cytoplasm function in a cell includes its role in maintaining the shape and consistency of the cell.
The cytoplasm is the cytosol and all the organelles (minus the nucleus) in the cell. Its main function is suspension of the organelles, their nutrients, and products. The cyt … oplasm function in a plant cell is almost similar to the cytoplasm function in an animal cell. it holds all of the cell organelles, or stuff in the cell, together The cytoplasm acts like the cell s skeleton. it is a jelly like substance around nucleus The cytoplasms function in a plant cell is to help gel the parts of the cell in place but it is also where many of the cells chemical reactions happen.
For example, the mitochondria in a cell cannot use the glucose molecules present in the cytoplasm. The enzymes in the cytoplasm break down these glucose molecules into pyruvate molecules, which are used by the mitochondria. Exchange of chemicals between the organelles is also one among the cytoplasm function in a cell. Exchange of materials with the extra cellular fluid too is common for both plant cell cytoplasm functions and animal cell cytoplasm functions. In general, cytoplasm function in a cell is almost a mechanical one. It provides support to the internal structures by being a medium for their suspension. Cytoplasm function in a cell includes its role in maintaining the shape and consistency of the cell.
Cytoplasm is the fluid that fills cells and serves several important functions. Cytoplasm holds the internal components of cells in place and protects them from damage. Cytoplasm stores molecules used for cellular processes, as well as hosts many of these processes within the cell itself. 
► Another important function of cytoplasm is its role in the movement of the internal organelles as well as the cell in whole. While the actin filaments in the ectoplasm facilitate movement of the cell in whole, the inner protein filaments help the organelles and other structures to move inside the cell. The internal organelles of the cell are suspended in the cytoplasm, which is a gelatinous fluid that fills the interior of the cell. Basically, there are two types of cells-eukaryotic and prokaryotic. The main difference between the two is that the latter ones lack nucleus and some other organelles.
Basically cytoplasm is the substance that fills the cell. It is a jelly-like substance and it is made up of eighty percent water and is usually clear and colorless.Cytoplasm is a thick gel-like substance. It liq ue f ies when it is agitated or stirred. 1 The cytoplasm is the place where the cell expands and growth of the cell takes place. 2  The cytoplasm provides a medium for the organelles to remain suspended. 3  The cytoskeleton of the cytoplasm provides shape to the cell and it also facilitates movement.
The cytoplasm comprises cytosol (the gel-like substance enclosed within the cell membrane) – and the organelles – the cell 's internal sub-structures. All of the contents of the cells of prokaryote organisms (such as bacteria, which lack a cell nucleus) are contained within the cytoplasm. It is within the cytoplasm that most cellular activities occur, such as many metabolic pathways including glycolysis, and processes such as cell division.