You can get Social Security retirement benefits and work at the same time. However, if you are younger than full retirement age and make more than the yearly earnings limit, we will reduce your benefit. Starting with the month you reach full retirement age, we will not reduce your benefits no matter how much you earn. Your benefits may increase when you work: As long as you continue to work, even if you are receiving benefits, you will continue to pay Social Security taxes on your earnings. However, we will check your record every year to see whether the additional earnings you had will increase your monthly benefit.
A worker can receive Social Security benefits and annuity payments during retirement. In some cases, an annuity can affect the amount of benefits a retiree receives. 
If you begin receiving annuity payments, or income from any source, you must report the income to Social Security. If you neglect this reporting, Social Security reserves the right to claim an overpayment and put a stop to your benefits. Adjustments to Benefits. You must qualify for SSI by proving that you have a disabling condition that prevents you from working and supporting yourself. If you are approved, Social Security will adjust your SSI benefits by any annuity payments you are receiving. As unearned income, the payments are offset dollar-for-dollar. As the monthly benefit in 2013 was only $710, this limits the amount of income you can receive from an annuity and still qualify for SSI
If you receive retirement benefits in the form of pension or annuity payments from a qualified employer retirement plan, all or some portion of the amounts you receive may be taxable. This topic does not cover the taxation of Social Security and equivalent railroad retirement benefits. For information about tax on these benefits, refer to Topic 423. The pension or annuity payments that you receive are fully taxable if you have no investment in the contract due to any of the following situations: 1  You did not contribute anything or are not considered to have contributed anything for your pension or annuity.
The amount of your inheritance annuity can cause your Social Security payments to become taxable. This depends on your combined income, which includes your Social Security benefits and any taxable income such as work earnings, dividends or inheritance annuities. Receiving an inheritance annuity doesn’t affect all types of Social Security payments, but it can affect some some Social Security benefits depending on the amount of your inheritance annuity and any other assets you own. An inheritance annuity can also affect the taxation of your Social Security payment
Several types of Social Security payments are not affected if you’re receiving an annuity. If you’re receiving payments from Social Security Disability, Retirement and Survivors, the benefit amounts remain unchanged no matter how much your inheritance is. Receiving an inheritance annuity doesn’t affect all types of Social Security payments, but it can affect some some Social Security benefits depending on the amount of your inheritance annuity and any other assets you own. An inheritance annuity can also affect the taxation of your Social Security payment
1 We use the following earnings limits to reduce your benefits: If you are under full retirement age for the entire year, we deduct $1 from your benefit payments for every $2 you earn above the annual limit. Your benefits may increase when you work: As long as you continue to work, even if you are receiving benefits, you will continue to pay Social Security taxes on your earnings. However, we will check your record every year to see whether the additional earnings you had will increase your monthly benefit.
Social Security. If you pay Social Security taxes (FICA) for at least 40 quarters (10 years), you are eligible to start receiving retirement benefits at age 62. The payment amount is based on the highest 35 years of your earnings, with those earnings adjusted for inflation. The Social Security Administration website (http://www.ssa.gov) provides resources to estimate the level of benefits you will receive. You may also choose to defer drawing benefits until you are older.