Dangerous levels of radiation in space could bar astronauts from a mission to Mars and limit prolonged activity on the moon, experts now caution. However, more research could reveal ways to handle the risks that radiation poses to space missions. The magnetic field of Earth protects humanity from radiation in space that can damage or kill cells. Once beyond this shield, people become far more vulnerable.
The Challenger and Columbia space shuttle disasters were perhaps two of the most prominent reminders of how crucial it is that everything work just right for a spacecraft to travel to space and successfully return back to Earth. One of the problems of getting a spacecraft to another planet is that we first have to get it out of Earth's orbit, explained Engelund. So we have to speed it up to a high enough velocity to break [free of] the Earth's gravity field.
A return to the moon or a mission to Mars that NASA and other space agencies are planning would place astronauts at continued risk from cosmic rays or dangerous bursts of solar radiation. Several reports in the past have outlined the potential risks. However, more research could reveal ways to handle the risks that radiation poses to space missions. The magnetic field of Earth protects humanity from radiation in space that can damage or kill cells. Once beyond this shield, people become far more vulnerable.
The speed of a crash landing on its surface is typically between 70 and 100% of the escape velocity of the target moon, and thus this is the total velocity which must be shed from the target moon's gravitational attraction for a soft landing to occur. There have been six manned U.S. landings (between 1969 and 1972) and numerous unmanned landings, with no soft landings happening from 22 August 1976 until 14 December 2013. To date, the United States is the only country to have successfully conducted manned missions to the Moon.
Mars One takes on the challenge of establishing a settlement on Mars with the same frame of mind, knowing all great endeavors, especially space exploration, incorporate risk of lost time, resources, ... and sometimes lives. Venturing to Mars is no exception. The risk for cost overrun in the Mars One Mission is reduced by using existing technologies, and by the fact that about 66% of the cost is associated with launch and landing--both of which are well understood and proven variables.
Radiation/ Cosmic Rays. A very big problem for humans and space travel is the risk of radiation. On Earth we are protected by the planet’s natural radiation shield, the magnetic field that surrounds our world which blocks out 99.9 percent of the harmful radiation from the Sun and deep space. Space is a crazy place where in the shadow you could freeze to death in seconds and boil in the sunlight the next! Your space suit is vital in keeping you alive making it a mini space ship itself.
As a response to President Bush's vision for space exploration, NASA, in May of 2005, began the Exploration Systems Architecture Study (ESAS), which served as the blueprint for future spacecraft that would eventually send humans back to the Moon and on to Mars. One of the problems of getting a spacecraft to another planet is that we first have to get it out of Earth's orbit, explained Engelund. So we have to speed it up to a high enough velocity to break [free of] the Earth's gravity field.
Humans may soon be on their way to Mars. But human safety is paramount in space missions. Depending on its orbit, Mars can be 500 times farther from Earth than the moon. Traveling such a long distance poses health problems never faced before. 
Risks and Challenges. Mars One has developed a mission to establish a human settlement on Mars built entirely upon existing technology. While the integration of systems proven in prior missions does greatly improve the chance of success, it by no means eliminates the risk or challenge of such an incredible endeavor. Sending humans to Mars remains a phenomenal undertaking by all standards and, as such, presents very real risks and challenges. The risk for cost overrun in the Mars One Mission is reduced by using existing technologies, and by the fact that about 66% of the cost is associated with launch and landing--both of which are well understood and proven variables.
Space debris is a growing problem with space travel. Space debris can be literally anything, from tiny flecks of paint, a metal bolt right up to a fully-sized defunct satellite. Over 2000 satellites have been launched into space since the first, Sputnik in 1957. Space is a crazy place where in the shadow you could freeze to death in seconds and boil in the sunlight the next! Your space suit is vital in keeping you alive making it a mini space ship itself.