Peanuts are one of the most common causes of food allergy and can cause severe reactions, including anaphylaxis. They contain a number of allergens that are not destroyed by cooking or roasting. Peanut allergy can be so severe that very tiny amounts can cause a reaction. People with a latex allergy should be tested for allergies to foods that are linked to the latex-food syndrome. Lupins are common garden plants, which are related to legumes such as peas, lentils and beans. Many types of lupin seed are poisonous, because they contain bitter-tasting toxins.
The most common food allergens include peanuts, milk, eggs, tree nuts, fish, shellfish, soy, and wheat — these foods account for about 90% of all allergic reactions. The most common food allergies in adults are shellfish, peanuts, tree nuts, fish, and egg. The most common food allergies in children are milk, eggs, peanuts, and tree nuts. Six to eight percent of children under the age of three have food allergies and nearly four percent of adults have food allergies. When the symptoms are severe it is known as anaphylaxis. Food intolerance and food poisoning are separate conditions. Common foods involved include cow's milk, peanuts, eggs, shellfish, tree nuts, wheat, rice, and fruit. Which allergies are most common depends on the country.
Learn more about the most common allergy trigger foods. Allergic reactions to foods are very common and often very dangerous too. Other allergies are triggered by microscopic protein particles that are inhaled or come into contact with the skin. But food allergies usually involve proteins that have been ingested (swallowed)
Generally, such people come from families in which allergies are common -- not necessarily food allergies but perhaps hay fever, asthma, or hives. Someone with two allergic parents is more likely to develop food allergies than someone with one allergic parent. 
Although sensitivity levels vary by country, the most common food allergies are allergies to milk, eggs, peanuts, tree nuts, seafood, shellfish, soy and wheat. These are often referred to as the big eight.. They account for over 90% of the food allergies in the United States. When the symptoms are severe it is known as anaphylaxis. Food intolerance and food poisoning are separate conditions. Common foods involved include cow's milk, peanuts, eggs, shellfish, tree nuts, wheat, rice, and fruit. Which allergies are most common depends on the country.
Although sensitivity levels vary by country, the most common food allergies are allergies to milk, eggs, peanuts, tree nuts, seafood, shellfish, soy and wheat. These are often referred to as the big eight.. Allergies to seeds — especially sesame — seem to be increasing in many countries. When the symptoms are severe it is known as anaphylaxis. Food intolerance and food poisoning are separate conditions. Common foods involved include cow's milk, peanuts, eggs, shellfish, tree nuts, wheat, rice, and fruit. Which allergies are most common depends on the country.
For the majority of people these proteins are not allergens, because their immune system does not react to them. The most common allergenic foods, also known as the ' big eight ', are: Among children, most allergic reactions to food are to peanuts, milk, soya, nuts from trees, eggs and wheat. The majority of children stop being allergic to foods early on in their childhood. People with a latex allergy should be tested for allergies to foods that are linked to the latex-food syndrome. Lupins are common garden plants, which are related to legumes such as peas, lentils and beans. Many types of lupin seed are poisonous, because they contain bitter-tasting toxins.
While more than 160 foods can cause allergic reactions in people with food allergies, the law identifies the eight most common allergenic foods. These foods account for 90 percent of food allergic reactions, and are the food sources from which many other ingredients are derived. 
Article Body. Any food may cause an allergic reaction, but 90% of food allergies in children are caused by just 6 common foods or food groups—milk, eggs, peanuts, tree nuts, soy, and wheat. In adults, a similar percentage of serious allergies are caused by just 4 foods—peanuts, tree nuts, fish, and shellfish. Any food may cause an allergic reaction, but 90% of food allergies in children are caused by just 6 common foods or food groups—milk, eggs, peanuts, tree nuts, soy, and wheat