The itching can be severe and persistent, especially at night. Scratching the affected area of skin usually causes a rash. The rash is red and patchy and may be long-lasting (chronic) or come and go (recurring). The rash may: 1  Develop fluid-filled sores that can ooze fluid or crust over. 2  This can happen when the skin is rubbed or scratched or if a skin infection is present. 1 Babies (2 months to 2 years): The rash is often crusted or oozes fluid. 2  It's most commonly seen during the winter months as dry, red patches on the cheeks. 3  Children (2 years to 11 years): The rash is usually dry.
Like other diseases, eczema can be acute (happening relatively suddenly) or chronic (happening for a long time). Acute eczema usually comes with redness, oozing and weeping, and microscopic vesicles (fluid-filled pockets) in the epidermis (the outermost layer of our skin). Eczema is often an allergic reaction to something that contacts the skin, and people with eczema also tend to have allergic rhinitis, asthma, or both. The term eczema is generic: there are several different varieties, with different causes, different appearance, and sometimes different treatments. 1  Contact Dermatitis.
Eczema is a widespread and unpleasant condition caused by the skin’s overreaction to common substances such as soap, food and dust. The skin reddens, itches, and becomes dry, scaly or bubbly. Annoyingly, these dry patches of skin may also ooze a watery or sticky fluid. Eczema has the ability to make life miserable for young and old. How far the rash spreads depends on the person.
Knowledge center. Pus is a protein-rich fluid called liquor puris, usually whitish-yellow, yellow, or yellow brown in color. Pus consists of a buildup of dead leukocytes (white blood cells) from the body's immune system in response to infection. It accumulates at the site of inflammation. When the buildup is on or very near the surface of the skin it is called a pustule or pimple. An accumulation of pus in an enclosed tissue space is called an abscess.
Eczema. Eczema is not really a single disease of the skin. Rather, eczema is a generic name for a particular kind of skin reaction where you see itching, fluid weeping or oozing from the rash, and lichenification (skin thickening where the normal fine lines on the skin surface become deeper and stand out more). Eczema is often an allergic reaction to something that contacts the skin, and people with eczema also tend to have allergic rhinitis, asthma, or both. The term eczema is generic: there are several different varieties, with different causes, different appearance, and sometimes different treatments. 1  Contact Dermatitis.
Eczema refers to a chronic inflammatory skin condition, characterized by dry skin, with patches that are red and intensely itchy. These patches of eczema may ooze, become scaly, crusted, or hardened. One of the most common symptoms of atopic eczema is itching (pruritus), which can be almost unbearable. Other symptoms include dryness of the skin, redness and inflammation. Constant scratching can also cause the skin to split, leaving it prone to infection.
Atopic Dermatitis (which is often called eczema) is an itchy, red rash. It can appear all over the body. Many people have it on their elbows or behind their knees. Babies often have eczema on the face, especially the cheeks and chin. They can also have it on the scalp, trunk (chest and back), and outer arms and legs. 
Eczema is a term for a group of medical conditions that cause the skin to become inflamed or irritated. The most common type of eczema is known as atopic dermatitis, or atopic eczema. Atopic refers to a group of diseases with an often inherited tendency to develop other allergic conditions, such as asthma and hay fever. 
Eczema Herpeticum. Skin that becomes inflected with the herpes simplex virus (the virus that causes cold sores) is called eczema herpeticum. The symptoms may include painful pus or fluid filled blisters or sores, which may be accompanied by fever, tiredness, and swollen glands. One of the most common symptoms of atopic eczema is itching (pruritus), which can be almost unbearable. Other symptoms include dryness of the skin, redness and inflammation. Constant scratching can also cause the skin to split, leaving it prone to infection.