Pneumonia. In addition to intrinsic respiratory system diseases, the lung can often be infected by material that is inhaled. Hence, the disease category pneumonias, which can result from the inhalation of bacteria or viruses. This page presents a sample of a few respiratory system diseases, their origins, and their treatment. The lung can also be injured in many other ways and material dealing with those diseases can be read about or studied in various textbooks of medicine and pulmonary disease.
Human respiratory system diseases can occur from intrinsic causes as well as the inhalation of foreign bodies. This page presents a sample of a few respiratory system diseases, their origins, and their treatment. The lung can also be injured in many other ways and material dealing with those diseases can be read about or studied in various textbooks of medicine and pulmonary disease.
The human respiratory system is a series of organs responsible for taking in oxygen and expelling carbon dioxide. The primary organs of the respiratory system are lungs, which carry out this exchange of gases as we breathe. Red blood cells collect the oxygen from the lungs and carry it to the parts of the body where it is needed, according to the American Lung Association. However, cough can be a sign of chronic respiratory conditions such as asthma, chronic bronchitis or emphysema, he said. In chronic lung disease, most respiratory diseases present with shortness of breath, initially with exertion, such as walking a significant distance or climbing several flights of stairs..
Respiratory system diseases occur primarily in the bronchioles and the alveoli. The respiratory system is consisted of the trachea (windpipe), set of lungs, blood vessels and bronchioles. Th... Though it is contagious, anti-viral drug and flu immunizations prevent from disease. The symptoms of Influenza are as follows: runny nose, fever and chills, cough, aches in muscles and joints, sore throat, upper respiratory congestion, nausea, vomiting and diarrhea.
Respiratory System Diseases. Human respiratory system diseases can occur from intrinsic causes as well as the inhalation of foreign bodies. This page presents a sample of a few respiratory system diseases, their origins, and their treatment. The lung can also be injured in many other ways and material dealing with those diseases can be read about or studied in various textbooks of medicine and pulmonary disease.
Diseases and conditions of the respiratory system fall into two categories: Viruses such as influenza, bacterial pneumonia and the new enterovirus respiratory virus that has been diagnosed in children; and chronic diseases, such as asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). However, cough can be a sign of chronic respiratory conditions such as asthma, chronic bronchitis or emphysema, he said. In chronic lung disease, most respiratory diseases present with shortness of breath, initially with exertion, such as walking a significant distance or climbing several flights of stairs..
The respiratory system includes the airways-nose, mouth, voice box (larynx), trachea (windpipe) and bronchial tubes, the lungs and their blood vessels and the muscles that help you breathe -- including but not limited to the diaphragm and intercostal, abdominal and neck muscles. Because the respiratory system is made up of so many different tissues and organs, there are a lot of things that can go wrong and subsequently a lot of different diseases that can affect it. Some of the many diseases that can affect the respiratory system include: 1  Laryngitis-Swelling and irritation of the larynx. 2  Bronchitis-An infection in your bronchial tubes. 3  Tonsillitis-Inflammation of the tonsils. 4  Pneumonia-An infection deep in your lung
Lung cancer, one of the best-known and most devastating of the respiratory system diseases, is characterized by abnormally growing lung tissue (malignant) which slowly, but incessantly invades normal lung tissue and eventually results in tissue death. The major cause of lung cancer in the world is cigarette smoking. This page presents a sample of a few respiratory system diseases, their origins, and their treatment. The lung can also be injured in many other ways and material dealing with those diseases can be read about or studied in various textbooks of medicine and pulmonary disease.
this Article. Diseases of the respiratory system occur primarily in the bronchioles and the alveoli. Much rarer, unless you count choking and drowning, are conditions that affect the larger passageways of the lungs such as the trachea and the bronchi. COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease) is a progressive disease generally caused by long term irritation to the lungs that makes it hard to breathe. It is characterized by airflow limitation that is not fully reversible.