The festival of Dussehra (also know as Dasara, Dashain or sometimes Vijayadashami) marks the triumph of Lord Rama over Demon king Ravana. On this day, Rama killed Ravana. Dussehra marks the end of the nine days of Navratri, and is celebrated on the tenth day.
Dussehra (Vijaya Dashami, Dasara, or Dashain) is a Hindu festival that celebrates the victory of good over evil. It is a gazetted holiday in India, which is marked on the 10th day of the bright half (Shukla Paksha) of the month of Ashvin (Ashwayuja), according to the Hindu calendar.
iImage Credit: PhotoXpress. Dussehra, also known as Vijayadashmi, is a major Indian festival celebrated on the tenth day of Ashvin month according to the Hindu calendar. This day falls in the month of September or October. The day culminates a 9 day fasting period of Navratri in the Hindu culture.
Dussehra in 2014 is on Saturday, the 4th of October. Dussehra (also know as Vijayadashami, Dasara, or sometimes Dashain) is celebrated on the tenth day of the month of Ashwin according to the Hindu lunisolar calendar which corresponds to September or October of the Gregorian calendar.
The tenth day of the Navaratri festival is known as Dussehra. It's devoted to celebrating the defeat of the demon king Ravana by Lord Rama. Usually in late September/early October each year. In 2015, Dussehra is being celebrated on October 22.
Dussehra, also known as Vijayadashmi, is a major Indian festival celebrated on the tenth day of Ashvin month according to the Hindu calendar. This day falls in the month of September or October.
Dussehra is celebrated on the day just after the Navratri and Durga Puja festivals in the Hindu month of Ashwin (October/November).
Diwali is celebrated exactly 20 days after Dussehra is celebrated,  which is usually in the month of October or November. According to  the Hindu epic Ramayana, Dussehra is … the day that celebrates a  victory of good over evil: marking the day Lord Ram killed the evil  king of Lanka, Ravan.
India Guide Festivals in India Dussehra 2015 Date. Dussehra-Dussehra or 'Vijayadashami' is celebrated as the victory of Lord Rama over Ravana and also the triumph of Goddess Durga over a demon called 'Mahishasura'. Dussehra Festival is celebrated every year usually in September/October.