All nuclear reactors are devices designed to maintain a chain reaction producing a steady flow of neutrons generated by the fission of heavy nuclei. They are, however, differentiated either by their purpose or by their design features. In terms of purpose, they are either research reactors or power reactors. 
Nuclear energy is our most concentrated form of energy. In other words, we get the most useable energy from smaller amounts of nuclear energy sources. Examples of Nuclear Energy: 1. A fission reaction at a nuclear power plant provides enough energy to give electricity to large cities. 2. The fusion reaction in the sun provides our planet with all of the energy it needs for living organisms to survive. 3. An uncontrolled fission reaction provides the destructive force of a nuclear bomb. Nuclear energy is energy that is stored within the nucleus of atoms. The only way for this energy to be released is through the splitting of or joining of atomic nuclei.
When a large fissile atomic nucleus such as uranium-235 or plutonium-239 absorbs a neutron, it may undergo nuclear fission. The heavy nucleus splits into two or more lighter nuclei, (the fission products), releasing kinetic energy, gamma radiation, and free neutrons. A portion of these neutrons may later be absorbed by other fissile atoms and trigger further fission events, which release more neutrons, and so on.
Fission reaction is the opposite of fusion. This is when the nucleus of a large atom is split into two or more fragments. This releases neutrons and energy. Fission reactions are what powers nuclear power plants. There are two main types of nuclear reactions, fission and fusion. Nuclear fission
Nuclear power is the use of nuclear reactions that release nuclear energy to generate heat, which most frequently is then used in steam turbines to produce electricity in a nuclear power station. The term includes nuclear fission, nuclear decay and nuclear fusion. 
A nuclear reactor is a power station that uses nuclear reactions to get useful energy, which is converted to electricity. With today's technology (as of 2014), the nuclear rea … ctions used are nuclear fission; although nuclear fusion is being explored, the technology is not yet ready for the market. Moderation also regulates the reaction. In the light water moderated reactor, for instance, a common design, water is the moderator. Water is also the heat sink, carrying away the energy of the reaction to make steam which spins turbines and makes
A nuclear reactor, formerly known as atomic pile, is a device used to initiate and control a sustained nuclear chain reaction. The heavy nucleus splits into two or more lighter nuclei, (the fission products), releasing kinetic energy, gamma radiation, and free neutrons. A portion of these neutrons may later be absorbed by other fissile atoms and trigger further fission events, which release more neutrons, and so on.
Nuclear energy is the type of energy generated in nuclear reactions, and nuclear reactions are reactions in which atomic nuclei are changed. Atoms are the building blocks of matter; atoms contain nuclei-protons and neutrons, and they also contain electrons. Electrons surround the nucleus of an atom. A nuclear reaction is a reaction that changes the nucleus of an atom. In other words, the number of protons and/or neutrons is changed as a result of a nuclear reaction.
Either way-whether it's fusion or fission-energy is released as a result of the nuclear reaction. Let's look at an example of each type of nuclear reaction. Nuclear fission is used to generate electricity in our nuclear power plants. Fission occurs when uranium nuclei are bombarded with neutrons. The neutrons hit and split the uranium nuclei into fragments. The fission releases a lot of energy and other neutrons as well. Electrons surround the nucleus of an atom. A nuclear reaction is a reaction that changes the nucleus of an atom. In other words, the number of protons and/or neutrons is changed as a result of a