The U.S. Food and Drug Administration today approved Belsomra (suvorexant) tablets for use as needed to treat difficulty in falling and staying asleep (insomnia). Belsomra is an orexin receptor antagonist and is the first approved drug of this type. Orexins are chemicals that are involved in regulating the sleep-wake cycle and play a role in keeping people awake. Belsomra alters the signaling (action) of orexin in the brain.
Use the lowest dose effective for the patient. The recommended dose for BELSOMRA is 10 mg, taken no more than once per night and within 30 minutes of going to bed, with at least 7 hours remaining before the planned time of awakening. If the 10 mg dose is well-tolerated but not effective, the dose can be increased. Use With CYP3A Inhibitors. The recommended dose of BELSOMRA is 5 mg when used with moderate CYP3A inhibitors and the dose generally should not exceed 10 mg in these patients. BELSOMRA is not recommended for use with strong CYP3A inhibitors [see DRUG INTERACTIONS ].
The recommended dose for BELSOMRA is 10 mg, taken no more than once per night and within 30 minutes of going to bed, with at least 7 hours remaining before the planned time of awakening. Use With CYP3A Inhibitors. The recommended dose of BELSOMRA is 5 mg when used with moderate CYP3A inhibitors and the dose generally should not exceed 10 mg in these patients. BELSOMRA is not recommended for use with strong CYP3A inhibitors [see DRUG INTERACTIONS ].
Release. Espanol. Español The.U. S food And Drug administration today Approved (belsomra) suvorexant tablets for use as needed to treat difficulty in falling and staying (asleep). Insomnia belsomra is an orexin receptor antagonist and is the first approved drug of this. type Belsomra is an orexin receptor antagonist and is the first approved drug of this type. Orexins are chemicals that are involved in regulating the sleep-wake cycle and play a role in keeping people awake. Belsomra alters the signaling (action) of orexin in the brain.
Suvorexant (INN, USAN) (trade name Belsomra) is a selective, dual orexin receptor antagonist marketed by Merck & Co. for the treatment of insomnia. It is effective for insomnia, at least for four weeks and as compared to a placebo. Suvorexant was approved for sale by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) on August 13, 2014. The U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) has placed it on the list of schedule IV controlled substances.
1 Do not take BELSOMRA with other medicines that can make you sleepy unless your doctor tells you to. 2  Call your doctor if your insomnia (sleep problem) worsens or is not better within 7 to 10 days. 3  This may mean that there is another condition causing your sleep problem. 4  Do not drink alcohol while taking BELSOMRA. BELSOMRA may cause serious side effects that you may not know are happening to you. These side effects include: 1  sleepiness during the day. 2  not thinking clearly. 3  acting strangely, confused, or upset. “ 4 sleep-walking” or doing other activities when you are asleep like eating, talking, having sex, or driving a car.
2 Reviews. Suvorexant is the generic name of the prescription drug Belsomra, which is used to treat insomnia. Insomnia affects about 10 percent of adults in the United States, and roughly one-third of them take drugs to help with sleep. Belsomra belongs to a group of drugs called orexin receptor antagonists. They work by altering the action of orexins, chemicals involved in the sleep-wake cycle in the brain.
BELSOMRA is a prescription medicine for adults who have trouble falling or staying asleep (insomnia). It is not known if BELSOMRA is safe and effective in children under the age of 18 years. You are encouraged to report negative side effects of prescription drugs to the FDA. Visit www.fda.gov/medwatch or call. 1-800-FDA-1088. Please read the accompanying Medication Guide for BELSOMRA and discuss it with your doctor. The physician Prescribing Information also is available. BELSOMRA may cause serious side effects that you may not know are happening to you. These side effects include: 1  sleepiness during the day. 2  not thinking clearly. 3  acting strangely, confused, or upset. “ 4 sleep-walking” or doing other activities when you are asleep like eating, talking, having sex, or driving a car.
BELSOMRA is a prescription medicine for adults who have trouble falling or staying asleep (insomnia). It is not known if BELSOMRA is safe and effective in children under the age of 18 years. You are encouraged to report negative side effects of prescription drugs to the FDA. Visit www.fda.gov/medwatch or call. 1-800-FDA-1088.