The term agency bank can be used to describe a bank acting as an agent on behalf of an individual or another financial institution. When operating as agents of other banks, agency banks are incorporated domestically in the United States to provide foreign banks with access to the US financial market. Their activities on their own are limited, as they are created solely to act as agents, not independent banks. An agency bank does not accept deposits or make loans. It processes payments and activities on behalf of the foreign bank. It also issues American Depository Receipts (ADRs), allowing people to trade foreign stock on the US stock market. ADRs represent stock shares held in trust by the parent bank
A bank that has been authorized by an individual to act as his/her agent. An agent bank would typically provide services such as back-office operations, processing of credit applications, and verification services. 
A form of organization commonly used by foreign banks to enter the US market. An agency bank cannot accept deposits or extend loans in its own name; it acts as agent for the parent bank. It is also the financial_institution that issues ADRs to the general market. Agency Bank. A separately incorporated branch of a foreign bank inside the United States. Agency banks cannot make loans or take deposits in their own name; rather, they do so on behalf of the parent bank in the foreign country. They also are the main issuers of American Depository Receipts
See Bank Marketing More Clearly. Bank Clarity is a division of the Sells Agency that helps banks in the industry gain primary account market share through our unique marketing clarity services. By taking advantage of our in-depth bank marketing clarity division, you will have a clear understanding of your brand and what about it appeals to your customer, a specific action plan for growth, and practical steps to ensure your message will compel your targeted audience.
Clients that transact at the agent use a magstripe bank card or their mobile phone to access their bank account or e-wallet respectively. Identification of customers is normally done through a PIN, but could also involve biometrics. Rather than a branch teller, it is the owner or an employee of the retail outlet who conducts the transaction and lets clients deposit, withdraw, and transfer funds, pay their bills, inquire about an account balance, or receive government benefits or a direct deposit from their employer.
A banking agent is a retail or postal outlet contracted by a financial institution or a mobile network operator to process clients’ transactions. Rather than a branch teller, it is the owner or an employee of the retail outlet who conducts the transaction and lets clients deposit, withdraw, and transfer funds, pay their bills, inquire about an account balance, or receive government benefits or a direct deposit from their employer.
B) Out-Clearing. Clearing Bank A processes the cheque for the Agency Bank in much the same way as it does for its own (see UK cheque clearing for more detail). To make this work, just like any other customer of Bank A, the Agency Bank X has an account with Clearing Bank A, often called a settlement account. Clearing Bank A credits this account with all the cheque credits it has processed in out-clearing as part of the accounting on the night of T+2. 
A bank that acts in some capacity on behalf of another bank. It can mean any of three types of bank: (1) The bank in a loan syndicate that advises other participating banks of advances taken and changes in interest rates for a foreign or domestic borrower.