It's a Northern Colombian Coast very popular term for male genitalia. It's also considered very vulgar, especially by higher educated classes. It also means trouble and may be an equivalent for stuff, in a very wide meaning. 
In northern Europe, where the name is much more popular, Mona is interpreted as a diminutive of Monika or, rarely, of Ramona or Simona. It is sometimes associated with the title of Leonardo da Vinci 's painting Mona Lisa, although in that context the word Mona is actually a title rather than a name. The word mona also means cute, monkey and doll in Spanish. In Sweden, Mona's name day is May 4. Mona is a female, and sometimes male, given name and a surname of multiple origins.
Italian: possibly a nickname from monda ‘clean’, ‘pure’, feminine form of mondo (from Latin mundus); otherwise it could be from a short form of a female form of a personal name ending with-mondo (see Mondo), although such names were found almost exclusively in the masculine form in the medieval period. You can find out when most of the Monda families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival and destination.
Mona /mona/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced MOH-nah. It is of Irish and Gaelic origin, and the meaning of Mona is noble, aristocratic . Also an Italian short form of Madonna. The Mona Lisa, a portrait painted by Leonardo da Vinci, has inspired name blends. The name spread from Ireland in the mid 19th century. Mona is a very prominent first name for women (#421 out of 4276, Top 10%) and also a very prominent last name for both adults and children (#27970 out of 150436, Top 19%). (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the baby name popularity of Mona for girls.
In many languages of India, the word for Monday is derived from Sanskrit Somavāra; Soma is another name of the Moon god in Hinduism. In some languages of India, it is also called Chandravāra; Chandra in Sanskrit means moon. In Thailand, the day is called Wan Jan, meaning the day of the Moon god Chandra. The name of Monday is derived from Old English Mōnandaeg mōnandæg And Middle English, monenday which  means moon. day
Click on a place to view Monda immigration records. The information for this chart came from the U.S. Immigration Collection at Ancestry. You can find out where the majority of the Monda families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. You can find out when most of the Monda families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival
Jewish and some Christian traditions place Sunday as the first day of the week, and Monday is thus the second day of the week. Quakers traditionally refer to Monday as Second Day eschewing the pagan origin of the English name Monday. The name of Monday is derived from Old English Mōnandaeg mōnandæg And Middle English, monenday which  means moon. day
In the West, it is the first day of the work week, whereas in most Muslim countries and Israel, it is the second day of the work week. The name of Monday is derived from Old English Mōnandaeg mōnandæg And Middle English, monenday which  means moon. day
[ 2 syll. mon-do, mo-ndo ] The baby boy name Mondo is pronounced M AA NDow †. Mondo's language of origin is Germanic and it is predominantly used in Spanish. Mondo is a variant of Raymond (English and French). Mondo is not popular as a baby boy name. It is not listed within the top 1000. In 2012, out of the family of boy names directly related to Mondo, Raymond was the most commonly used.
Monday is xīngqīyī (星期一) in Chinese, meaning day one of the week. Its name in Georgian and Syriac means first day. In all Slavic languages Monday is perceived as the first day of the week. The name of Monday is derived from Old English Mōnandaeg mōnandæg And Middle English, monenday which  means moon. day