Insert Blank Page. Navigate to Insert menu and click the Black Page option under Pages section. When you want quickly insert multiple blank pages then you can use this option. Insert Page Break. If you want to create a new page with the existing content then click the Page Break option under the Pages section. Adding new page in Word document. There are different ways of inserting new page in Word document such as. 1  Using the Blank Page option available as part of Insert menu. 2  Using the Page Break option available as part of Insert menu. 3  Simply press Enter on the Keyboard at the end of page.
Report Abuse. This is usually because formatting marks have made it across to your second sheet or a paragraph marker following a table. If your using Word 2010 go to the file tab, click on options, go to display, and tick the paragraph marks box. Delete any paragraph marks you see in the second blank page. 
Table at the end of the document. If there is a table at the very end of your document, Word will insist on having an empty paragraph after the table. You will not be able to delete this paragraph because the paragraph holds the formatting for the entire document (or the last section if there is more than one). The one you want to concentrate on is the paragraph mark: . Every time you see that mark, it indicates an empty paragraph. Delete all the empty paragraphs and you ll most likely get rid of your blank page.
Keep in mind, though, that there really is no such thing as a 'blank page' in a Word document unless you're using Left/Right Section Breaks. Even then, the blank pages do not display on screen. Every displayed page has content even if it's only an empty paragraph or some sort of Break inserted to alter the text flow. 
To delete or modify section breaks, you’ll need the Word desktop application. Follow these steps to remove empty paragraphs and page breaks using Word Online. Click Edit Document Edit in Word Online. Empty paragraphs appear as blank lines in your document. To remove them, just select them and delete them. (A paragraph in Word is any text that ends with a hard return.). To delete a page break, click it to select it, and then press Delete. If you have the Word desktop application, you can use the Open in Word command to open the document and delete section breaks. Once you have the document open in Word, see Delete a blank page in Word 2013 or Add or delete a page in Word for Mac 2011
In this video tutorial we will show you how to delete blank page in word. Open the word document you want to edit. Go to the page you want to edit. To delete the blank page you have to click Show/Hide paragraph button to see all hidden formatting symbols. After it select everything by grabbing on page and press Delete button on keyboard. Now you can see that page have been deleted and only page with text left. Deselect the Show/Hide paragraph button. 
Then go to General-. Click on Allow Opening a document in Draft View-. Then click Okay-. Then go back to your document... Click on View Tab (top of page)-. Then go to Document Views-. Then click on Draft-. Then erase the blank pages-I had to sort of finagel this. so I can't really expalin how I made this happen. 
Blank page in the middle of a document. If your blank page occurs in the middle of a document (and is not caused by an Odd/Even Page section break), there is a remote chance that it is caused by a plethora of empty paragraphs, but more often it is the result of a manual page break. The one you want to concentrate on is the paragraph mark: . Every time you see that mark, it indicates an empty paragraph. Delete all the empty paragraphs and you ll most likely get rid of your blank page.
Blank pages that aren t really blank. Except for the blank even or odd pages that Word inserts as needed before an Odd or Even Page break (see True blank pages), most blank pages aren t really blank. If a page prints, it s because there is something on it. Obviously, that something is invisible to the user. The one you want to concentrate on is the paragraph mark: . Every time you see that mark, it indicates an empty paragraph. Delete all the empty paragraphs and you ll most likely get rid of your blank page.