When marketers and business owners hear the term “sustainable marketing strategies,” it often conjures up images of recycled paper and energy efficient light bulbs. While that is not what we mean by sustainable marketing, the premise of sustainability, doing more with less, holds true. Our elevator pitch on the basics of sustainable marketing practices is that “you must focus your marketing resources where continued engagement will occur, well after the first interaction.”.
Sustainable marketing is an aspect of the larger field of sustainable community development, a field that is defined by the Brundtland commission of the World Commission as: Development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs. 
The idea of sustainability marketing myopia is rooted into conventional marketing myopia theory, as well as green marketing myopia. Generally, sustainability marketing myopia can be avoided in two ways: 1  by identifying and stressing the inherent consumer’s values (efficiency and cost-effectiveness, health and safety, convenience, symbolism and status) of the socio-ecological features of the product.
For these businesses, sustainability means not only eco-efficiency, but also eco-effectiveness. Sustainability is absolutely about marketing and branding – when that means identifying market needs based on long-term prosperity and creating tribes of sustainable consumers. Sustainability needs to be about ‘greening'– because businesses and communities depend on healthy, productive ecosystems. Among the many ways that sustainability has been defined, the simplest and most fundamental is: the ability to sustain or, put another way, the capacity to endure..
In turns, sustainability marketing myopia is an exaggerated focus on the socio-ecological attributes of the product over the core consumer values, a distortion of the marketing process which is likely to lead to the product failing on the market or remaining confined in a small alternative niche. Generally, sustainability marketing myopia can be avoided in two ways: 1  by identifying and stressing the inherent consumer’s values (efficiency and cost-effectiveness, health and safety, convenience, symbolism and status) of the socio-ecological features of the product.
Sustainability marketing myopia is a term used in sustainability marketing referring to a distortion stemming from the overlooking of socio-environmental attributes of a sustainable product or service at the expenses of customer benefits and values. Generally, sustainability marketing myopia can be avoided in two ways: 1  by identifying and stressing the inherent consumer’s values (efficiency and cost-effectiveness, health and safety, convenience, symbolism and status) of the socio-ecological features of the product.
Sustainability Marketing. The process of promoting, selling, and distributing a product or service in a sustainable market in such a way as to educate customers of the multiple benefits of valuing human, economic, and natural capital. This definition uses the term “sustainable market”, a term that is not defined in this dictionary. Ideally, a sustainable market would be one that meets today’s (global) economic, environmental, and social needs without compromising the opportunity for future generations to meet theirs. In practice, a sustainable market is a market that is moving toward that ideal.