Bronze is an alloy consisting primarily of copper, commonly with about 12% tin and often with the addition of other metals (such as aluminium, manganese, nickel or zinc) and sometimes non-metals or metalloids such as arsenic, phosphorus or silicon. They are commonly used in architectural applications. Bismuth bronze is a bronze alloy with a composition of 52% copper, 30% nickel, 12% zinc, 5% lead, and 1% bismuth. It is able to hold a good polish and so is sometimes used in light reflectors and mirrors.
With bronze, you have mostly copper atoms (90%) with a few tin atoms floating around in a solution. I do agree that the physical properties and crystal structures of the materials are altered, but still would describe the resulting mix as more solution than compound. Source(s): Frank the Tank · 6 years ago. Submit. · just now. Report Abuse. Official answer: solution of one solid in another Honest answer: a compound, since electrons are shared, and to prove it alloys sometimes have different crystal structures from the component metals, and sometimes have an orderly arrangement of the different kinds of atoms.
There are many different bronze alloys, but typically modern bronze is 88% copper and 12% tin. Alpha bronze consists of the alpha solid solution of tin in copper. Alpha bronze alloys of 4–5% tin are used to make coins, springs, turbines and blades. They are commonly used in architectural applications. Bismuth bronze is a bronze alloy with a composition of 52% copper, 30% nickel, 12% zinc, 5% lead, and 1% bismuth. It is able to hold a good polish and so is sometimes used in light reflectors and mirrors.
It is because the cube exists in the bronze, which is the secondary matter, that it (the bronze cube) is potentially The Thinker. The secondary matter (the bronze) is the source of the thing's potentiality to be another sculpture. Hence, matter is openness to form. He wishes to impose that form on the secondary matter. The matter (bronze), which is actually a cube, is in potentiality to a new form, namely The Thinker. It is not actually The Thinker yet, only potentially is it The Thinker. The artist, who is the agent cause, begins his work and a few days later we have The Thinker. The matter has taken on or assumed a new
Food loving, fun craving. I think they describe me best. Bronze is a metal alloy consisting primarily of copper, usually with tin as the main additive, but sometimes with other elements such as phosphorus, manganese, aluminium, or silicon. It exists in the solid state. 
Bronze is a alloy of copper and tin, but it may also contain phosphorus, manganese, silicon and aluminium.   Bronze use was most prominant in the bronze age, where as the n … ame suggests it was used to create nearly all the tools, weapons and luxury items that humans needed at the time. Bronze is best known as an alloy of copper and tin, but copper alloyed with aluminum, arsenic, manganese, phosphorous, silicon, etc., can also referred to as bronzes.
For example, clay is matter relative to a brick because a brick is made of clay, whereas bricks are matter relative to a brick house. Change is analyzed as a material transformation: matter is what undergoes a change of form. For example, consider a lump of bronze that's shaped into a statue. Bronze is the matter, and this matter loses one form (that of a lump) and gains a new form (that of a statue). According to Aristotle's theory of perception, we perceive an object by receiving its form with our sense organs. 