Place on the prepared baking sheets in a single layer. 4. Bake the slices on the upper and lower racks for 1 hour. Remove from the oven and turn each slice over; return the pans to the oven. Bake 1 more hour for soft dried apples or about 2 more hours for crispy apple chips. 2. Combine 4 cups water and 1/2 cup lemon juice in a medium bowl. (The lemon juice helps prevent browning.). 3. Using a sharp knife or a mandoline (if you have one), slice 2 large apples as thin as possible, about 1/8 inch thick.
Turn the dehydrator on. If your dehydrator has a temperature control, set it to 140ºF (60ºC). Using the dehydrator will take anywhere from 12 to 24 hours depending on the type of apple and how thickly you cut the slices. Place the baking sheet in the oven and bake the apples for at least an hour on each side. Bake the apple slices for an hour. When the hour has passed, remove the sheets and flip all of the the apple slices over. Bake the apples for one more hour is you prefer your apples to be a little less crispy.
Allow the apples to dehydrate for 6 to 8 hours or until they are dried and as crisp as you want them to be. Oven: Preheat the oven to 200ºF. Bake the apples slices for 1 hour, then flip them and allow to bake for another 1 to 2 hours until the chips are no longer moist. Flipping occasionally. Oven: Preheat the oven to 200ºF. Arrange the apple slices in a single layer on a parchment paper lined metal baking pan
If the oven is too hot then moisture can leave the apples too quickly, and you’ll end up with apples that are dry outside but full of moisture inside. On the other hand, if the temperature isn’t hot enough, the apples could mold before they have a chance to dry. How to Dehydrate Apples. 
Drying Apples in an Oven. You can also dry apples in your oven if your oven can get the temperature down to 145 degrees Fahrenheit. (Some ovens will only go as low as 200 degrees.) You’ll need to keep the oven door open slightly to allow the moist air to escape. Positioning a fan by the door to keep air circulating is helpful too. The drying time will vary depending on which method you use, the moisture content of the apples, and how thick the apple slices are. Drying apples in a food dehydrator takes between 12 and 24 hours. Drying apples in the oven takes between 10 and 20 hours. The higher the heat, the quicker they will dry; but you’ll need to watch them closely and turn the slices often if your heat is higher than 145 degrees Fahrenheit. Drying apples over a wood stove takes about 8 to 14 hours
1 Turn the oven off and keep the apples inside as the oven cools down for 1 hour. 2  This will help them get crunchy. 3  Some apples may just be chewy and only slightly crunchy after 3 hours in the oven. 4  Store apple chips at room temperature in an airtight container for up to 1 week. After 2-3 hours, and flipping the apples once in between, I turn the oven off. Then I keep the apples inside the oven for 1 more hour. Sitting in the oven as it cools down, rather than sitting at room temperature, will help your apple chips crunch up much quicker. The crunchier, the better in my opinion!
Turn the dehydrator to 135ºF. Allow the apples to dehydrate for 6 to 8 hours or until they are dried and as crisp as you want them to be. Oven: Preheat the oven to 200ºF. Arrange the apple slices in a single layer on a parchment paper lined metal baking pan. Bake the apples slices for 1 hour, then flip them and allow to bake for another 1 to 2 hours until the chips are no longer moist. Flipping occasionally.
It's easy to make dried apples and their crispier cousins, apple chips, at home in your oven without a food dehydrator. Here’s how to do it in a home oven: 1. Position racks in the upper and lower thirds of oven; preheat to 200°F. Line 2 large baking sheets with parchment paper. 2. Combine 4 cups water and 1/2 cup lemon juice in a medium bowl. (The lemon juice helps prevent browning.). 3. Using a sharp knife or a mandoline (if you have one), slice 2 large apples as thin as possible, about 1/8 inch thick.