In studies of heart rate variability (HRV), however, heart rate is modelled as as a quasi-continuous signal, and the RR interval series is used to obtain samples of that signal at more frequent intervals. The first column in the output is the elapsed time in seconds, and the second column is the instantaneous heart rate in beats per minute. The argument of the-F option indicates the desired sampling frequency for the heart rate signal, in this case 4 samples per second.
Various heart rate correction formulae have been developed in order to determine whether the QT interval is prolonged in comparison to its predicted value at a reference heart rate of 60 beats/min (i.e., an RR interval of 1.0 second). Exponential, logarithmic, and linear formulae have been used (Table 1). To assess the performance of a particular heart rate correction formula, the correlation between the corrected QT (QTc) intervals calculated using the formula and the RR intervals can be assessed.
Plot of the mathematical relationship between RR interval and heart rate with superimposed linear regression analyses on the curve for heart rates of 50–80 bpm and 100–150 bpm. Over each of those heart rate ranges, there is an excellent fit of the curve but with a much steeper slope at the lower heart rates. Prognostic significance of exercise HR vs RR interval and HR recovery vs RR interval recovery. The cohort included 2387 patients (mean age 55 ± 12 years, 57% male). As expected, typical risk factors were significant univariate predictors. After mean follow-up of 9.9 ± 1.5 years, 10% of the cohort had died.
This mini-tutorial offers a brief overview of how to obtain inter-beat (RR) interval and heart rate time series, and of some basic methods for characterizing heart rate variability (HRV), using freely available PhysioToolkit software. The first column in the output is the elapsed time in seconds, and the second column is the instantaneous heart rate in beats per minute. The argument of the-F option indicates the desired sampling frequency for the heart rate signal, in this case 4 samples per second.
The key parameter to tell if Heart Rate Monitoring device is suitable for RR Interval analyses (HRV) is its sampling rate and time resolution. In order to obtain precise RR intervals your device must have resolution that is much smaller than a duration of RR intervals, e.g. 1/100s or less. 2.7k Views • Joshua has 690+ answers and in. RR interval is just 1/heart rate. If your heart rate is 120 beats per minute, then the RR interval is 1 minute per 120 beats, or .5 seconds. But that's not going to tell you anything meaningful for somebody who wants to talk about RR interval
The prognostic significance of heart rate (HR), whether measured at rest or in the setting of exercise, is well established. The “heart rate” can be described as a true rate (in beats per minute) or as the RR interval (in milliseconds). RR interval and HR are hyperbolically related (HR × RR interval = 60,000; Figure 1). Prognostic significance of exercise HR vs RR interval and HR recovery vs RR interval recovery. The cohort included 2387 patients (mean age 55 ± 12 years, 57% male). As expected, typical risk factors were significant univariate predictors. After mean follow-up of 9.9 ± 1.5 years, 10% of the cohort had died.
Variation in the beat-to-beat interval is a physiological phenomenon. The SA node receives several different inputs and the instantaneous heart rate or RR interval and its variation are the results of these inputs. The main inputs are the sympathetic and the parasympathetic nervous system (PSNS) and humoral factors. It is measured by the variation in the beat-to-beat interval. Other terms used include: cycle length variability, RR variability (where R is a point corresponding to the peak of the QRS complex of the ECG wave; and RR is the interval between successive Rs), and heart period variability.
RESULTS: Mean resting RR interval was greater in Europeans than South Asians (1014 (149) ms vs. 936 (158) ms respectively, means (SD); P = 0.005). This corresponded to resting heart rates of 59.1 bpm for Europeans and 64.1 bpm for South Asians. 
Adjustment for Heart Rate. The time-duration intervals are influenced by heart rate (R-R cycle length), so heart rate correction is required in the analysis of repolarization duration. Exponential, logarithmic, and linear formulae have been used (Table 1). To assess the performance of a particular heart rate correction formula, the correlation between the corrected QT (QTc) intervals calculated using the formula and the RR intervals can be assessed.