Ultraclear Diesel Exhaust Fluid (DEF) is a urea-based fluid engineered for diesel engines as the reducing agent in Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR) systems. SCR systems have been installed to meet all EPA2010 standards on diesel engine vehicles since March or 2010. 
Diesel Exhaust Fluid (DEF) is an emissions control liquid required by modern diesel engines. It is injected into the exhaust stream. DEF is never added to diesel fuel. It is a non-hazardous solution of 32.5% urea in 67.5% de-ionized water. 
1. FICTION: DEF degradation will be a major problem. FACT: Diesel Exhaust Fluid doesn’t degrade nearly as quickly as people assume. For example, at 86°F, DEF has a shelf life of a year. REMEMBER: Do not equate shelf life to spoiling like food, as DEF will not go bad. IT will lose some effectiveness, and the SCR will dose at a higher rate, but it won’t “go bad.” If maintained at a constant temperature, DEF manages to stay for several months. For example, at 74°F in Los Angeles, Diesel Exhaust Fluid has the shelf life of 44 months. 2. 
Diesel Exhaust Fluid (DEF) uses automotive-grade urea which has a much higher purity than fertilizer urea. Using a lower-quality fertilizer urea will cause degradation of the Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR) system, eventually causing the truck to break down. No, simply run the tank as empty as possible before refilling. Diesel Exhaust Fluid (DEF) is a pure chemical, so your bulk storage tank does not need to be cleaned out unless it is contaminated. DEF from different API-certified suppliers can be mixed.
ADVERTISEMENT. DEF is a necessity to make this happen. Kept in a separate reservoir tank from the diesel fuel, it’s a solution of 32.5% high-purity urea mixed with very high-purity water. Urea is an organic nitrogen-containing compound commonly used in agriculture as a fertilizer. However, you can’t just buy fertilizer and make your own DEF. The urea used to make DEF is known as automotive grade or environmental grade, a higher grade than the kind used for fertilizer. Although it meant a new technology and a new fluid to deal with, the good news was, SCR meant fuel savings.
Diesel exhaust fluid (DEF), commonly referred to as AdBlue and standardised as ISO 22241 is an aqueous urea solution made with 32.5% high-purity urea (AUS 32) and 67.5% deionized water. 
DEF stands for Diesel Exhaust Fluid. It is a 32.5% solution of chemically pure Urea and 67.5% demineralized or deionized water. It is a non-regulated non hazardous solution. You may also see it referred to as NOx reduction agent AUS32 or AdBlue, both terms are common in Europe. 
4 using diesel exhaust fluid Diesel exhaust fluiD (Def) Diesel Exhaust Fluid (DEF) is a non-flammable fluid comprised of 33% ammonia-based urea and 67% purified water. DEF is used with diesel engine exhaust systems to reduce the amount of emissions produced by turning Nitrogen Oxide (NOx) into nitrogen and water vapor. 
DEF is required for the 2011 and forward diesel vehicles to meet 2010 EPA emission regulations. DEF is a non-hazardous clear fluid (67% deionized water / 33% chemically pure Urea) that is injected into the diesel exhaust system to reduce NOx emissions. Since the launch of this new product, we have received several questions on the shelf life and fluid quality for DEF. 
1. Putting DEF into your Diesel Tank. Now you might not know what makes up DEF, so now would probably be a good time to learn. Diesel exhaust fluid is composed of 32.5% urea and the rest of the solution is deionized water. 