An individual that is homozygous recessive for a particular trait carries two copies of the allele that codes for the recessive trait. This allele, often called the recessive … allele is usually represented by the lowercase form of the letter used for the corresponding dominant trait. The genotype of an organism that is homozygous recessive for a particular trait is represented by a doubling of the appropriate letter, such as pp.
A dominant trait is the trait that will show. A recessive trait is the trait that is hidden. For example if your mom had brown eyes and your dad has green eyes you would have … brown eyes because brown eyes are the dominant trait. 3 people found this useful. This allele, often called the recessive … allele is usually represented by the lowercase form of the letter used for the corresponding dominant trait. The genotype of an organism that is homozygous recessive for a particular trait is represented by a doubling of the appropriate letter, such as pp.
The wing type is controlled by an autosomal or non-sex-linked gene. The wild type (normal wing) trait is dominant, and the vestigial wing is recessive. But if you look at their eye color; red (wild type) versus white (mutant), that would be an example of a sex-linked trait. Niotulove · 8 years ago. Thumbs up. Those having no dominant (V) gene would have vestigial wings and would have a vv genotype. Flies with vestigial wings have nothing more than vestiges or degenerated elements of wings and are unable to fly. However, they can still jump and run quite well.
Answered in Chapters 14 & 15. Vestigial wings are a recessive trait. A. Cross I results give evidence supporting the statement. yankitln2. Answered in Chapters 14 & 15. The genes for body color and wing shape are linked. D. Cross II results give evidence against the statement. 27. Vestigial wings are a recessive trait. 28. Vestigial wings are a recessive trait. 29. The genes for body color and wing shape ... 30. An F1 cross should produce flies that ... 31. There are 25 centimorgans between the ..
More specifically, this gene is X-linked in Drosophila melanogaster. Male flies with red eyes having the dominant gene for red eyes will have an X W Y genotype. Female flies with red eyes having the dominant gene will either have an X W X W or X W X w genotype. Male flies with white eyes (the recessive trait) will have an X w Y genotype. You will also be responsible for being able to identify and understand the inheritance of two individual traits in Drosophila melanogaster. The first is wing type, which is controlled by an autosomal or non-sex-linked gene. Flies having the dominant gene for normal wings (V) would have either a VV or a Vv genotype. Flies with normal wings have fully developed wings and are able to fly. Those having no dominant (V) gene would have vestigial wings and would have a vv
Dominant Trait-Say your mother has blue eyes and your father has brown, and you come out with blue eyes. Blue eyes is the dominant trait because you and physically see it. -- … ---- While brown eyes is your Recessive trait becaus it is able to be inherited but is not physically seen, you dont have brown eyes. This allele, often called the recessive … allele is usually represented by the lowercase form of the letter used for the corresponding dominant trait. The genotype of an organism that is homozygous recessive for a particular trait is represented by a doubling of the appropriate letter, such as pp.
Flies having the dominant gene for normal wings (V) would have either a VV or a Vv genotype. Flies with normal wings have fully developed wings and are able to fly. Those having no dominant (V) gene would have vestigial wings and would have a vv genotype. Flies with vestigial wings have nothing more than vestiges or degenerated elements of wings and are unable to fly. However, they can still jump and run quite well.
Now compare them with the other fruit flies here. Short-Winged Flies Notice the shortened wings of these flies. Flies with vestigial wings cannot fly: they have a defect in their vestigial gene, on the second chromosome. These flies have a recessive mutation. Of the pair of vestigial genes carried by each fly (one from each parent), both have to be altered to produce the abnormal wing shape. 