The first layer-L1 cache is always located on the processor. L2 cache, the next layer up, can either be located on the CPU or on the motherboard depending on the architecture. Some systems also have a third layer of cache L3 which again could be located on either the CPU or the motherboard.
Cache memory is built into the central processing unit, commonly known in short as the CPU, or it can be located on a separate chip next to the CPU. In other sense, cache is located between CPU and Main Memory in the memory hierarchy of a computer system. just type allinurl:cache memory, in google search and you will find your answer with more pictures and a lot more about cache memory.
When taking about the computers data cache, i.e. L1, L2, and L3 cache, this cache is usually located on the computer processor chip and not the motherboard. The L1 cache or system cache is the fastest cache and is always located on the computer processor. The next fastest cache, L2 cache and then L3 cache are also almost always on the
Cache memory is located in two general locations: inside the processor (internal cache) and on the motherboard (external cache): Internal cache: also known as primary cache, internal cache is located inside the CPU chip.
A CPU cache is a cache used by the central processing unit of a computer to reduce the average time to access memory. The cache is a smaller, faster memory which stores copies of the data from the most frequently used main memory locations. Kind of obvious, but anyway.
Cache (pronounced cash) memory is extremely fast memory that is built into a computer’s central processing unit (CPU), or located next to it on a separate chip.
Answer by Manvendra99. Confidence votes 380. Cache memory is built into the central processing unit, commonly known in short as the CPU, or it can be located on a separate chip next to the CPU. In other sense, cache is located between CPU and Main Memory in the memory hierarchy of a computer system. just type allinurl:cache memory, in google search and you will find your answer with more pictures and a lot more about cache memory.