1 You can make changes to the port PVID settings for an individual port or for a group of ports: 2  To change the port PVID setting for an individual port, select the check box to the left of its port number, and then enter an existing VLAN ID in the PVID field. The Port PVID Configuration screen lets you assign a port VLAN ID (PVID) to an interface. There are certain requirements for a PVID: 1  All ports must have a defined PVID. 2  If no other value is specified, the default VLAN PVID is used.
PVID is a command in Huawei switches that mark all the untagged paquets of that port with the VLAN 350. I want to check if Cisco has something like that, 'cuase I need that a Huawei AP goes through a Cisco switch to its controller to register, but without this the paquets doesn't go through the Cisco Router. 
Hi. For the following question I assume this: 1  PVID is the VLAN ID which traffic entering the switch shall be assigned to. 2  untagged/native VLAN is the VLAN whose traffic leaves the switch without VLAN information in the header. 
1 To change the port PVID setting for an individual port, select the check box to the left of its port number, and then enter an existing VLAN ID in the PVID field. 2  Note: You can also enter the interface number (that is, the port number) in the GO TO INTERFACE field, and then click GO. 1  To change the port PVID settings for a group of ports, select the check boxes to the left of their port numbers, and then enter an existing VLAN ID in the PVID fields. The Port PVID Configuration screen lets you assign a port VLAN ID (PVID) to an interface. There are certain requirements for a PVID: 1  All ports must have a defined PVID. 2  If no other value is specified, the default VLAN PVID is used.
VLAN is a broadcast domain. PVID (Port VLAN ID) is a default VLAN id assigned to frames coming to the port. This is a term used for non-Cisco switches. PVID (Port VLAN ID) is a default VLAN id assigned to frames coming to the port. and i thought about Private Vlan ID; native VLAN do NOT carry any VLAN tags; if an untagged frame is received on a trunk port, the frame is associated with the native VLAN configured on that port
5. PVID (Port VLAN ID) is a default VLAN id assigned to frames coming to the port. and i thought about Private Vlan ID; native VLAN do NOT carry any VLAN tags; if an untagged frame is received on a trunk port, the frame is associated with the native VLAN configured on that port
Re: PVID vs VLANs.... PVID (Port VLAN ID) is a default VLAN id assigned to frames coming to the port. and i thought about Private Vlan ID; native VLAN do NOT carry any VLAN tags; if an untagged frame is received on a trunk port, the frame is associated with the native VLAN configured on that port
This is on a 2724 switch. I've got a server setup to only accept tagged packets on VLAN 100. I want the server to be able to accept packets from both tagged and untagged sources. I set the PVID of the port the server is on to 100, but it's not getting any traffic. From reading the documentation, it's not really clear on exactly what setting PVID does. 
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. A Port VLAN ID (pvid) is a default VLAN ID that is assigned to an access port to designate the virtual LAN segment to which this port is connected. The pvid places the port into the set of ports that are connected under the designated VLAN ID. 