Local Surface winds are sometimes more a function of Temperature Differences between mountain tops and lower elevations than overriding Synoptic winds. These winds are sometimes called Mountain Winds as they occur most frequently in mountainous areas, meteorologist call them Katabatic or Anabatic Winds. Anabatic Winds are upslope winds driven by warmer surface temperatures on a mountain slope than the surrounding air column. Katabatic winds are downslope winds created when the mountain surface is colder than the surrounding air and creates a down slope wind. Katabatic wind may range over fairly large areas as in the case of the Santa Anna winds experienced throughout southern California during certain times of the year. Winds can be derived from a number of different meteorological phenomena that are either caused by large scale synoptic pressure and temperature differences or by local temperature and pressure differences.
The upslope effect is an important factor in West Virginia weather, particularly during the winter. I thought I'd take some time to give a brief description of what happens during upslope-influenced weather patterns. Forecasting upslope snow is a fairly simple process. The first ingredient needed is a good period (6 to 12 hours or more) of low-level winds carrying air straight into the Appalachian mountains.
The illustrations of slope and valley winds to this point might suggest that upslope and upvalley winds occur on all slopes at the same time. This is not usually the case. For one example, see the graphic above. Let's suppose we have a ridge line and canyon parallel to each other running north and south. The transition is gradual: first the downslope winds, then a pooling of cool, heavy air in the valley bottoms. The cool air in the higher valley bottoms will flow to lower elevations and increase in velocity as the pool of cool air deepens.
An upslope wind occurs on the windward side of a mountain range. Some mountain ranges, such as the Sierra Nevadas in California have the west side of the mountain range as the windward side the great percentage of the time. The dewpoint and temperature convergence upon each other when the air is rising (temperature decreases faster with height than the dewpoint decreases with height in a rising parcel of air). Upslope flow is responsible for phenomena such as mountain summertime convection and upslope enhanced snow.
--during the day, warm air flows upslope. along the valley sidewalls, and the reverse. arguments will apply. A pressure. decrease in the valley drives a circulation. along the valley axis from the plains to the. valley. • The classic explanation of the mountain-. plains wind was given by Defant (1951). 
In this case, eastern Colorado has DVV. When the wind flow is from the east, the windward side of the Rockies is the eastern side. In this case, eastern Colorado has UVV and clouds and precipitation are much more likely. Weather not climatology determines which side of a mountain has UVV and DVV on a particular day. 
An anabatic wind, from the Greek anabatos, verbal of anabainein meaning moving upward, is a warm wind which blows up a steep slope or mountain side, driven by heating of the slope through insolation. It is also known as an upslope flow. These winds typically occur during the daytime in calm sunny weather. The air over the hill top is now warmer than the air at a similar altitude around it and will rise through convection. This creates a lower pressure region into which the air at the bottom of the slope flows, causing the wind.
Other mountain ranges such as the Rocky and Sangre de Christo Mountains have the west side as the windward and in some circumstances have the east side as the windward side. When the winds are from an easterly component, upslope slope occurs in the high plains. The best upslope conditions develop when there is a strong area of low pressure in the southern plains. To the north of the low, winds have a strong easterly component. The dewpoint and temperature convergence upon each other when the air is rising (temperature decreases faster with height than the dewpoint decreases with height in a rising parcel of air). Upslope flow is responsible for phenomena such as mountain summertime convection and upslope enhanced snow.
Upslope winds can occur on the east slopes, while downslope winds occur on the west slopes. As the sun passes overhead and into the afternoon positions, the west slopes become heated and the east slopes become shaded. The slope winds can reverse from those of the morning. The transition is gradual: first the downslope winds, then a pooling of cool, heavy air in the valley bottoms. The cool air in the higher valley bottoms will flow to lower elevations and increase in velocity as the pool of cool air deepens.