The Premis DDA Automatic Door Toilet System is now available for residential and commercial use. Adding this feature will allow users to enter and exit the toilet without even having to touch the door. Free entry or with Access Control. Swing Door: Leaving the Door in an unlocked state enables Manual or Assisted entry. This also encourages the user to locate the “Touch to Lock” sensor therefore ensuring that the system has been switched to the “Engaged” mode before using the facility.
Disabled Toilet Systems. The Disabled toilet system has been designed to make it easy for the disabled to enter the toilet and lock and unlock the door. The disabled toilet system is installed at the entrance and in the inside of the toilet for the physically challenged to automatically open and close the door
The Premis DDA Automatic Door Toilet System is a visionary new product that opens and closes the bathroom door to your toilet by touch or by sensors. This aesthetically pleasing feature does not use much energy once installed and is simple to use. Free entry or with Access Control. Swing Door: Leaving the Door in an unlocked state enables Manual or Assisted entry. This also encourages the user to locate the “Touch to Lock” sensor therefore ensuring that the system has been switched to the “Engaged” mode before using the facility.
Disabled Toilets. Access control and door entry systems for disabled toilets, single use and communal bathroom areas. The JWS Disabled Persons Toilet System, DPTS, is a fully featured access system for use with disabled toilets and designed for DDA compliance. It can be easily integrated into a toilet with an existing door operator or you can purchase a Sprint door operator from JWS. Operated by two JWS Touch sensors with ultra-brite LEDs it controls entry by opening and locking the door at the appropriate times interfacing with both an automatic door operator and a locking device (maglock). Disabled Persons Toilet System. Disabled toilet system for use with an Automatic Door Operator.
A new automatic bathroom door and toilet flushing system for automatically raising the door and flushing the toilet when a user is finished. The system includes a housing secured to a ceiling between a pair of walls. The housing has an opening in a lower end thereof. A door is rotatably disposed within... Claims(6). 1. A new automatic bathroom door and toilet flushing system for automatically raising and lowering the door and flushing the toilet when a user is finished comprising, in combination: a housing adapted to be secured to a ceiling between a pair of bathroom walls, the housing having an opening in a lower end thereof;
Installation-Maintenance. At DDA Access Ltd we are expert manufacturers and installers of access control systems, automatic doors, swing doors, disability toilets, shop front security and more. We have offices in Olney and Sheffield, and our services are available across the UK. Automatic door manufacturers and consultants. We supply and install low energy and low maintenance systems to existing swing doors, we also provide new aluminium shop-fronts and swing/sliding door sets to suit your requirements. Contact us today to arrange a free initial consultation and estimate.