Auxins promote stem elongation, inhibit growth of lateral buds (maintains apical dominance). They are produced in the stem, buds, and root tips. Example: Indole Acetic Acid (IA). Auxin is a plant hormone produced in the stem tip that promotes cell elongation. Auxin moves to the darker side of the plant, causing the cells there to grow larger than corresponding cells on the lighter side of the plant. This produces a curving of the plant stem tip toward the light, a plant movement known as phototropism. Auxin also plays a role in maintaining apical dominance.
Auxins are a family of hormones found in plants. Auxins are mostly made in the tips of the shoots and roots, and can diffuse to other parts of the shoots or roots. Auxin is in the same concentration on both sides of the shoots, so they grow evenly and longer on both sides. C. One side of the tips are in more light than the other side. Auxin is in a greater concentration on the shaded side, causing the cells there to grow longer than the cells on the lit side.
Auxins are plant hormones. The most important auxin produced by plants is indole-3-acetic acid (IAA). 1  development of the embryo. 2  leaf formation. 3  phototropism. 4  gravitropism. 5  apical dominance. 6  fruit development. 7  abscission. 8  root initiation and development.
Polar auxin transport is the regulated transport of the plant hormone auxin in plants. It is an active process, the hormone is transported in cell-to-cell manner and one of the main features of the transport is its directionality (polarity). 
Medical Definition of AUXIN. : an organic substance that is able in low concentrations to promote elongation of plant shoots and usually to control other specific growth effects; broadly: plant hormone. 
In plant shoots, the role of auxin is what causes a positive phototropism, or the plant to grow towards the light. When light is shone on a plant from one direction, it causes the hormones to redistribute to the shaded side. One function of the hormone is to cause cell elongation. 
Auxins were the first of the major plant hormones to be discovered. They derive their name from the Greek word αυξειν (auxein - to grow/increase). Auxin (namely IAA) is present in all parts of a plant, although in very different concentrations. Auxins and their role in plant growth were first described by the Dutch scientist Frits Warmolt Went. Kenneth V. Thimann isolated this phytohormone and determined its chemical structure as indole-3-acetic acid (IAA). Went and Thimann co-authored a book on plant hormones, Phytohormones, in 1937.
indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) is the most abundant and the basic auxin natively occurring and functioning in plants. It generates the majority of auxin effects in intact plants, and is the most potent native auxin. Auxins and their role in plant growth were first described by the Dutch scientist Frits Warmolt Went. Kenneth V. Thimann isolated this phytohormone and determined its chemical structure as indole-3-acetic acid (IAA). Went and Thimann co-authored a book on plant hormones, Phytohormones, in 1937.
Auxin: The Functions, Effects, and Applications of a Plant Growth Hormone By Michael Place. Auxin is the first and most studied plant growth hormone in horticultural study. For the professor or student of a plant science, auxin is a readily accepted term that can be placed to many biological plant functions. Answer: Auxin is a plant growth hormone that can be created chemically or produced biologically by the plant. In biological synthesis, the natural hormone is represented by the symbol IAA, standing for indoleacetic acid.
Auxin is the first group of plant hormones that was discovered by scientists in 1926. Auxin is mainly present in the form of indole acetic acid (IAA) in plants. However, there are other chemical compounds also found in plants that exhibit functions similar to auxins. One of the major functions of the IAA is to stimulate cell elongation of the young shoots. 