Hindi Meaning: The name Hema is a Hindi baby name. In Hindi the meaning of the name Hema is: Golden. SoulUrge Number: 6. Expression Number: 9. People with this name have a deep inner desire for a stable, loving family or community, and a need to work with others and to be appreciated. 
Malini is mainly used in Indian. Its language of origin is Spanish and Sanskrit. From Sanskrit roots, its meaning is having a garland. Malini is a variant form of the English and Italian name Malena. The names Malinea, Malinee, Maliney, Malinia, Malinie, Maliny, and Malyni are variant forms of Malini. Malini is an uncommon baby girl name. It is not in the top 1000 names
Share what you know! Personal experiences with the name Hema: | Edit. Share what you know! Nicknames for Hema: | Edit. Share what you know! Meanings and history of the name Hema: | Edit. The name Hema can trace its origin in the Hindi language where it conveys the meaning of snow or the Himalayas. But some experts believe that the meaning of the word is 'golden' which contradicts the previous meaning as the color of snow is white, not golden. Hema is a popular name for girls in India
Hema was born in the Tamil-speaking Chakravarthy household on October 16, 1948 in Ammankudi, Tamil Nadu. Her dad's name is V.S.R. Chakravarthy and her mom, Jaya, was a film producer. She was enrolled in the Chennai-based Andhra Mahila Sabha. 
Hema Malini (Hema Malini Chakravarty) (born 16 October 1948, Ammankudi (Orathanadu) , Tamil Nadu, India) is an Indian actress, director, producer, dancer and politician. Malini made her acting debut in Sapno Ka Saudagar (1968), and went on to feature in numerous Bollywood films, primarily as the lead actress. Malini was initially promoted as the Dream Girl, and in 1977 starred in a film of the same name. She has played both comic and dramatic roles, as well as being a dancer. She has appeared in more than 150 films.
In Local: Name Hemamalini generally means Golden garlands, is of Indian origin, Name Hemamalini is a Feminine (or Girl) name. Person with name Hemamalini are mainly Hindu by religion. Name Hemamalini belongs to rashi Kark (Cancer) and Nakshatra (stars) Pushyami. Name Hemamalini is associated to God/Goddess Lakshmi.
In most of her films, she starred opposite her husband; Dharmendra and with Rajesh Khanna and Amitabh Bachchan. Malini was initially promoted as the Dream Girl, and in 1977 starred in a film of the same name. She has played both comic and dramatic roles, as well as being a dancer. She has appeared in more than 150 films.
Hema was born in the Tamil-speaking Chakravarthy household on October 16, 1948 in Ammankudi, Tamil Nadu. Her dad's name is V.S.R. Chakravarthy and her mom, Jaya, was a film producer. She was enrolled in the Chennai-based Andhra Mahila Sabha. 
Malini. 1. Malini is an Indian name for a girl.. The name means another name for the goddess Durga / someone who loves tending to nature (specially flowers) / Spanish Jasmine flower. 3.