The flesh of the salmon fish is salmon-colored. Salmon is a range of pale pinkish-orange to light pink colors, named after the color of salmon flesh. The web color salmon is displayed at right.
Wild salmon flesh ranges in color from pink to orange-red. Exactly where the flesh of any particular salmon – sockeye, Coho, King or pink – falls on the color scale depends on the amount of reddish-orange chemical compounds – carotenoid pigments – the salmon ingests.
The Combo Library provides a convenient way to search salmon color schemes. If you are looking for colour schemes with particular color codes, simply enter those html colors into the search box. For example, entering #FFFFFF will narrow down the list to only combinations containing the color white.
With feeding grounds in the krill-rich Bering Sea, Alaska’s sockeye salmon, for instance, tend to be the most reddish in color. Consuming less in the way of shrimp, krill and other small crustaceans, Coho, King and pink salmon, on the other hand, tend to take on a lighter orange color.
So distinctive is salmon’s orangey-pink hue that Crayola named a crayon after it. It’s an accurate representation of the flesh of wild salmon, but not that of farmed salmon, whose meat is naturally gray. Or at least, it would be if salmon farmers didn’t spike their artificial diet with pink-ifying pellets.
Salmon. Don't let this color's name turn you away. Salmon is between pink and peach, so it is playful and welcoming. In the open areas of your home, salmon can be a refreshing departure from more common neutrals such as tan and beige.
The actual color of salmon flesh varies from almost white to deep pink, depending on their levels of the carotenoid astaxanthin due to how rich a diet of krill and shrimp the fish feeds on; salmon raised on fish farms are given artificial coloring in their food.
Salmon (pronounced sa-mon, as the l is silent) is a range of pale pinkish-orange to light pink colors, named after the color of salmon flesh. The first recorded use of salmon as a color name in English was in 1776.