Chewing tobacco comes as long strands of loose leaves, plugs, or twists of tobacco. Pieces, commonly called plugs, wads, or chew, are chewed or placed between the cheek and gum or teeth. The nicotine in the piece of chewing tobacco is absorbed through the mouth tissues. The user spits out the brown saliva that has soaked through the tobacco. Smokers who put off quitting by using smokeless tobacco to get a nicotine fix while in smoke-free settings do not decrease their lung cancer risk. Lung cancer risk is affected most by how long a person smokes, and these people are still using tobacco and smoking cigarettes.
Major tobacco manufacturers that sell dissolvable tobacco products include R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company (Camel-branded Orbs, Strips, and Sticks, 2009) and Star Scientific (Ariva, 2001 and Stonewall, 2003). Research into health effects of this and other new tobacco products was among the reasons of the establishment of the Tobacco Products Scientific Advisory Committee of the Food and Drug Administration in 2009.
Camel Dissolvables is a new line of products manufactured by R.J. Reynolds. The Camel Dissolvables line includes Camel Orbs, Camel Strips, and Camel Sticks which are currently in test markets in Columbus, Ohio, Indianapolis, and Portland, Oregon. Research into health effects of this and other new tobacco products was among the reasons of the establishment of the Tobacco Products Scientific Advisory Committee of the Food and Drug Administration in 2009.
Description. Ariva is a dissolvable tobacco tablet shaped like a tic-tac; the tablets contains 1.5 grams of nicotine which is absorbed into the blood by placing the tablet in between the upper gum and cheek. Ariva is smokeless, spitless and available in wintergreen and java flavors. 
At the same time, use of smokeless tobacco — snuff, chew, electronic cigarettes and, increasingly, dissolvable tobacco — is growing at a rate of about 7% per year, according to a 2010 report by Research and Markets, an international market research and data company. They have found ways to evade the rules and regulations and public health warnings.. The first dissolvable tobacco product, a lozenge called Ariva, debuted in 2001. But in the last year the number of products on sale or in test marketing has jumped and major tobacco companies have entered the arena. Reynolds is market-testing two other products, Camel Strips and Camel Sticks, in addition to Camel Orbs
Some people believe that snus is a safe tobacco to use. Because it’s steam-heated rather than fermented (like American snuff and other forms of spitless tobacco), Swedish snus has fewer tobacco-specific nitrosamines (TSNAs) that are known to cause cancer. But there are other carcinogens in snus besides TSNAs. Smokers who put off quitting by using smokeless tobacco to get a nicotine fix while in smoke-free settings do not decrease their lung cancer risk. Lung cancer risk is affected most by how long a person smokes, and these people are still using tobacco and smoking cigarettes.
Types of Dissolvable Tobacco There are a few different types of dissolvable tobacco products, but they are all relatively similar to one another. They are made from powdered tobacco, sugars, flavors and binding agents, as well as ingredients to balance the pH. History of Dissolvable Tobacco Dissolvable tobacco is a new product, having really gained some attention through R.J. Reynolds introduction of Camel-branded dissolvable tobacco Strips, Orbs and Sticks, but it’s actually been around since 2001.
But that's apparently what happened to Star Scientific Inc. after it asked the Food and Drug Administration to treat two versions of its smokeless, dissolvable tobacco lozenges as modified risk because they contain lower levels of carcinogens than other tobacco products. We obviously believed that these were smokeless tobacco products under the act, said Sara Troy Machir, Star Scientific's vice president for communications and investor relations. Why FDA judged Ariva-BDL and Stonewall-BDL exempt from the tobacco law is a mystery.
Star Scientific was surprised to find the FDA doesn't consider its two dissolvable tobacco lozenges to be forms of smokeless tobacco and thus aren't covered by the 2009 tobacco law. We obviously believed that these were smokeless tobacco products under the act, said Sara Troy Machir, Star Scientific's vice president for communications and investor relations. Why FDA judged Ariva-BDL and Stonewall-BDL exempt from the tobacco law is a mystery.