Schools should certainly offer tuition remission to the children of faculty and staff. Those that don't are losing some talented educators to those that do. Within my own circle, I know of 2 outstanding faculty members who left top-3 schools after their children were school age. If they qualify for financial aid on top of the tuition remission they are [/b]not[b] making as much as people who do not qualify. PP -- Some parents don't make any more than the teachers and their spouses -- they still have to pay the full freight.
Anonymous wrote: Anonymous wrote:I find it hard to believe that Sidwell doesn't offer tuition remission! The Langley School offers the discount. I suspect Sidwell does not struggle to attract top teachers, so there's little need to sweeten the pot with tuition breaks for most of them. Epsicopal school have nothing in common (from a governing perspective) with Catholic schools. There is no such thing as a parochial Episcopalian school. Some private schools offer reduced tuition to teacher's children such as STA (Episcopalian) and Landon (no religious affiliation).
My current school doesn't offer tuition remission but my previous one did (in a different city), and even though I took advantage of it, I still always thought it was unfair to other teachers who didn't have children. It is a benefit offered to some teachers and not others, and that is not fair. She had children attend the school. Based on the school’s teacher remission policy she has received over 1.2 million dollars of free tuition during her tenure (14 years, multiple children). That is income lost to the school and an unfair benefit for teachers who
Anonymous wrote: Anonymous wrote:It just tells me that the school doesn't pay its teachers nearly enough if they qualify for aid on top of a tuition remission for their own kids. OP here. I'm talking about schools with NO tuition remission, e.g. Sidwell Friends. If they qualify for financial aid on top of the tuition remission they are [/b]not[b] making as much as people who do not qualify. PP -- Some parents don't make any more than the teachers and their spouses -- they still have to pay the full freight.
if tuition is $ 20000 per year and a teacher who makes $ 50000 per year has two children in the school and they are given free tuition it is not like a salary increase of $ 40000 someone making $ 50000 would get huge financial aid for his children it is more like a benefit of 6000 10000 per year if that much 
The financial aid offering each year is fairly fixed and available to everyone. Tuition remission is drawn from a different pool and based on the policy. So, if the school offers half off to all teachers and staff with children enrolled, then they will honor that regardless of how many teacher/staff kids are enrolled. She had children attend the school. Based on the school’s teacher remission policy she has received over 1.2 million dollars of free tuition during her tenure (14 years, multiple children). That is income lost to the school and an unfair benefit for teachers who have children.
01/15/2010 19:15. Subject: financial assistance for faculty children. I love the teachers at my child's school and I know that they get a small remission towards the tuition of one child ... after that they are able to apply for financial aid if they need more assistance just like everyone else. If they qualify for financial aid on top of the tuition remission they are [/b]not[b] making as much as people who do not qualify. PP -- Some parents don't make any more than the teachers and their spouses -- they still have to pay the full freight.