Laptops are subject to more abuse than desktops, which is why laptops have shorter lifespans. If the average laptop made today were placed in a clean, well ventilated room, it could likely run for 10 years without problem if no one touched it. A desktop would probably last 15 years without problem in the same condition.
As a machine, however, it won't last forever and you'll eventually need to replace it. Although each individual laptop's actual lifespan varies, on average a laptop will typically give you between three and five years of use.
Although the laptop itself can last five years or more, the battery's life typically runs a bit shorter. As batteries age, their ability to hold a charge is compromised. The lifespan of a laptop battery varies depending on how it's used, but averages between 18 and 24 months. As it reaches the end of the line, you'll have less and less time available on a full charge.
The average life span of a desktop computer is about 3-5 years. There are many variables that can reduce the life span though, such as how much you use it and how hard you push it, environmental heat and humidity, dust, and insects.
The Average Lifespan for Laptops. Your laptop should last between three and five years. Creatas Images/Creatas/Getty Images. Your laptop's compact, all-in-one design enables you to take it with you just about anywhere and still be able to work and play.
The lifespan of a computer is going to vary. Depending on how often you use the computer and what you use it for is going to factor in the equation. Also, the original equipment of the computer is going to play a big factor. If you buy a low-end computer, you are typically getting dated hardware.
Comments 0. The lifespan of the traditional desktop computer is expanding. 15 years ago the pace of change was so fast you have 5 years between deploying a desktop computer and it being so out of date you wrote it off as junk.
1. The average life-span is typically 6-7 years or more. Depending on what your OS you have support for it vary. Now the average hardware will advance to the point of certain age that you need to upgrade. You can keep your laptop in good condition is will last you 10+ years.