The filming of The Mentalist was an absolutely HUGE production!!! On site were hundreds of crew members, numerous filming trucks, a myriad of props, and a large machine on wheels which provided shade for the area being filmed (pictured above). It was pretty incredible to see!!! Ironically, it’s also the same spot where I watched The Closer being filmed last October. Until next time, Happy Stalking! Stalk It: The Mentalist was filmed underneath the Colorado Street Bridge in Pasadena, just off North Arroyo Boulevard. Filming also took place on the Colorado Street Bridge.
Weekend Filming Locations including information for Believe, Bonnie & Clyde, The Mentalist and Bones. Here’s a look at what’s filming on location on 4/6 & 4/7/2013: Untitled Rottenberg/Zuritsky Pilot is filming on 7th Avenue from Union Street to Garfield Place in Park Slope, Brooklyn, NY on S.. Tuesday, Oct. 29 Filming Locations for The Mentalist, The Following, Nashville, Suits, Orange Is The New Black, Castle, & more! Here’s a look at what’s filming on location Tuesday, Oct. 29, 2013: If you have any scoop about where a movie or TV show is filming, let us know about it at olv@onlocationvacations.com or a
By Arjun Varma. Patrick Jane and Lisbon work with FBI in The Mentalist Season 6 TheMentalist/facebook. The Mentalist is currently on a long broadcast hiatus with four episodes filmed and ready. The makers are hard at work getting episode 17 together which will reportedly have the newly formed FBI team dealing with the Austin bomb squad.
Watching the Filming of The Mentalist! Last week, while out and about stalking in Pasadena, I just happened to run across a large production crew filming underneath the Colorado Street Bridge, so, of course, I just had to pull my car over to ask what was being filmed. 
Last Tuesday, the cast of The Mentalist was spotted filming scenes at a convenience store on the corner of Topanga Canyon Blvd & Devonshire St in Los Angeles. 
Watching the Filming of The Mentalist! Last week, while out and about stalking in Pasadena, I just happened to run across a large production crew filming underneath the Colorado Street Bridge, so, of course, I just had to pull my car over to ask what was being filmed. Ironically, it’s also the same spot where I watched The Closer being filmed last October. Until next time, Happy Stalking! Stalk It: The Mentalist was filmed underneath the Colorado Street Bridge in Pasadena, just off North Arroyo Boulevard. Filming also took place on the Colorado Street Bridge
The show often sets episodes in fictional locales with names like Salinger Mill and Rancho Rosa. Like the majority of American television shows, The Mentalist is mostly filmed within the studio zone in Los Angeles County, but occasionally films a few scenes on location in Sacramento. The structure used to represent the CBI headquarters in Sacramento is the back of the Pico House in downtown Los Angeles. The show follows former psychic Patrick Jane (Simon Baker), who is a consultant to the California Bureau of Investigation (CBI), using the highly developed observational skills he previously employed to read people's minds.
The Mentalist cast is back on set, but they are not filming for the season 7 premiere. By Vanessa Frith, EnStars on Aug 04, 2014 03:02 AM EDT. Sign Up for Newsletter. Lisbon (Robin Tunney) and Patrick Jane (Simon Baker) in Blue Birds (Photo: CBS). Newcomer Agent Michelle Vega (Josie Loren) will join Agent Kimball Cho (Tim Kang), Agent Dennis Abbott (Rockmond Dunbar), and the sandy-haired Mentalist in the bullpen for these scenes.