---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------. Forgetting planets, then Io a moon of Jupiter is the most active volcanic body in our Solar System with over 400 known active volcanoes. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------. Very easy answer. . . Venus has perhaps up to a million volcanoes. For sure it has more than 100,000 volcanoes-we cannot yet tell how many of these are active, or temporarily dormant. 1  The planet Earth has the most active volcanoes. 2  Mars had the largest volcano known in the solar system. 3  Venus had the most volcanoes
The world’s largest volcano, Mauna Loa in Hawaii, is a shield volcano. Mauna Loa is about 55,770 feet (17,000 meters) from its base beneath the ocean to the summit, which is 13,681 feet (4,170 meters) above sea level. It is also one of the Earth’s most active volcanoes and is carefully monitored. Cinder cone volcanoes (also called scoria cones) are the most common type of volcano and are the symmetrical cone shaped volcanoes we typically think of. They may occur as single volcanoes or as secondary volcanoes on the sides of stratovolcanoes or shield volcanoes.
Volcanism on Venus has taken place within the last 2.5 million years; however, there is no absolute proof that any volcano on Venus has erupted recently. Recent radar imagery shows more than 1,000 volcanic structures and evidence of possible periodic resurfacing of the planet by floods of lava. There are more than 1000 volcanic structures and possible periodic resurfacing of Venus by floods of lava. The planet may have had a major global resurfacing event about 500 million years ago, from what scientists can tell from the density of impact craters on the surface.
1 The planet Earth has the most active volcanoes. 2  Mars had the largest volcano known in the solar system. 3  Venus had the most volcanoes. 4  Io a moon of Jupiter has the most active volcanoes in the Solar System, with over 400. Very easy answer. . . Venus has perhaps up to a million volcanoes. For sure it has more than 100,000 volcanoes-we cannot yet tell how many of these are active, or temporarily dormant. 1 
They are small volcanoes, usually only about a mile across and up to about 1,000 feet high. They have very steep sides and usually have a small crater on top. Often cinder cones are classed as a major type of volcano. But cinder cones are much smaller than most shield, composite, and ash flow volcanoes. In fact, cinder cones occur on all of these larger volcano types. Image at left: A schematic representation of the internal structure of a typical cinder cone. Image source: USGS publications. 
The surface of Venus is dominated by volcanism and has produced more volcanoes than any other planet in the solar system. It has a surface that is 90% basalt, and about 80% of the planet consists of a mosaic of volcanic lava plains, indicating that volcanism played a major role in shaping its surface. Though other planets show signs of volcanic eruptions, most seemed to have erupted in the distant past and are inactive now. Both Mars and Venus have volcanoes much larger than any on Earth, and they have erupted huge amounts of lava onto their surfaces in the past.
Confidence votes 627. The most geologically active planet I know if Venus, which has constant eruptions which keep the crust of the planet looking very new. There are also a few moons of Jupiter, Io in particular that have similar processes going on. Io is the most volcanic body in the solar system it has 400 active volcanoes 10 of which are higher than Mt. Everest. Comment: Venus has the most volcanoes, but how active they are is still uncertain. 
Evidence of past volcanic activity has been found on most planets in our solar system and on many of their moons. Our own moon has vast areas covered with ancient lava flows. Mars has Olympus Mons and Tharsis Rise, the largest volcanic features in our solar system. A few features on Mars suggest possible recent activity there. It is also very likely, perhaps probable, that active volcanoes or cryovolcanoes will be discovered on moons of icy planets in the outer portions of our solar system such as Europa, Titan, Dione, Ganymede, and Miranda.
On Venus, where there are no tectonic plates or seawater, volcanoes are mostly of the shield type. Nevertheless, the morphology of volcanoes on Venus is different: on Earth, shield volcanoes can be a few tens of kilometres wide and up to 10 km (6.2 mi) high in the case of Mauna Kea, measured from the sea floor. There are more than 1000 volcanic structures and possible periodic resurfacing of Venus by floods of lava. The planet may have had a major global resurfacing event about 500 million years ago, from what scientists can tell from the density of impact craters on the surface.
Venus has shield volcanoes, widespread lava flows and some unusual volcanoes called pancake domes and tick-like structures which are not present on Earth. Pancake dome volcanoes are up to 15 km (9.3 mi) in diameter and less than 1 km (0.62 mi) in height and are 100 times larger than those formed on Earth. There are more than 1000 volcanic structures and possible periodic resurfacing of Venus by floods of lava. The planet may have had a major global resurfacing event about 500 million years ago, from what scientists can tell from the density of impact craters on the surface.