Hobart is Tasmania's capital and largest city. Hobart is also the second oldest city in Australia. Northern Tasmania (Launceston, Ben Lomond, Bridport, George Town). This area encompasses the city of Launceston and the Tamar Valley, the mountainous region of Ben Lomond, the Midlands, and the North East.
Tasmania is Australia 's only island state. It has the smallest land area of any state and the smallest population, with roughly 500,000 inhabitants. It is separated from the Australian mainland by a body of water called the Bass Strait that has isolated it for thousands of years. Hobart is also the second oldest city in Australia. Northern Tasmania (Launceston, Ben Lomond, Bridport, George Town). This area encompasses the city of Launceston and the Tamar Valley, the mountainous region of Ben Lomond, the Midlands, and the North East.
Tasmania is the smallest of Australia's six states, with an area of 68,401km² (26,410 square miles). It is comparable in size to Ireland or the US state of West Virginia. Tasmania is separated from mainland Australia by the Bass Strait, from New Zealand by the Tasman Sea, and otherwise surrounded by the Southern Ocean. Hobart is also the second oldest city in Australia. Northern Tasmania (Launceston, Ben Lomond, Bridport, George Town). This area encompasses the city of Launceston and the Tamar Valley, the mountainous region of Ben Lomond, the Midlands, and the North East.
View a Movie of Tasmania (Flash Player). Tasmania is the island state off the south east coast of the Australian mainland and is one of Australia's best kept secrets. The island is separated from mainland Australia by 240 km (150 miles) of water called Bass Strait. Tasmania is a state of Australia even though it is an island. Largely uninhabited, with deserted beaches, mountains, 17 national parks and rugged coastlines, Tasmania has become a favorite for hikers from the world over. Approximately 30% of Tasmania is protected wilderness. The population of Tasmania is only 472,000 with 195,000 living in the capital city of Hobart. The other main cities are Launceston (99,000) and Devonport (25,000). Tasmania is approximately the same size as West Virginia.
Tasmania (/taezˈmeɪniə/ ; tæzˈmeɪniə abbreviated As tas and known colloquially As) tassie is an island state that is part of The commonwealth Of. Australia it is located 240 (km 150) mi to the south of The australian, mainland separated By Bass. strait Tasmania has been volcanically inactive in recent geological times but has many jagged peaks resulting from recent glaciation. Tasmania is the most mountainous state in Australia. The most mountainous region is the Central Highlands area, which covers most of the central western parts of the state.
Tasmania (/taezˈmeɪniə/ ; tæzˈmeɪniə abbreviated As tas and known colloquially As) tassie is an island state that is part of The commonwealth Of. australia Tasmania has been volcanically inactive in recent geological times but has many jagged peaks resulting from recent glaciation. Tasmania is the most mountainous state in Australia. The most mountainous region is the Central Highlands area, which covers most of the central western parts of the state.
The state includes the main island of Tasmania, the 26th-largest island in the world, and the surrounding 334 islands. The state has a population of 507,626 (as of June 2010), almost half of which resides in the Greater Hobart precinct, which forms the metropolitan area of the state capital and largest city, Hobart. Tasmania has been volcanically inactive in recent geological times but has many jagged peaks resulting from recent glaciation. Tasmania is the most mountainous state in Australia. The most mountainous region is the Central Highlands area, which covers most of the central western parts of the state.
Hobart is gateway to historic Port Arthur, the wildlife of Bruny Island and Maria Island, and breathtaking Wineglass Bay in Freycinet. From Launceston or Devonport, discover Cradle Mountain-Lake St Clair National Park, Liffey Falls and Flinders Island in Bass Strait. Add to your dream trip. Step into the ancient beauty of Tasmania's World Heritage wilderness and national parks. From Hobart, discover Bruny Island's wildlife and walking trails and drive the East Coast Escape to Wineglass Bay in Freycinet National Park.
Tasmania is undoubtedly one of the most beautiful places in Australia. With everything from bustling towns and cities to untouched natural landscapes – not to mention the cleanest air in the world – Tasmania is best explored by taking a road trip around the island. 
Tasmania's area is 68,401 km 2 (26,410 sq mi), of which the main island covers 64,519 km 2 (24,911 sq mi). Tasmania is promoted as a natural state; almost 45% of Tasmania lies in reserves, national parks, and World Heritage Sites and the state was the founding place of the first environmental party in the world. Tasmania has been volcanically inactive in recent geological times but has many jagged peaks resulting from recent glaciation. Tasmania is the most mountainous state in Australia. The most mountainous region is the Central Highlands area, which covers most of the central western parts of the state.