While Medicare won’t pay for assisted living services, in some cases, Medicaid will. Specifically, Medicaid may pay for a respite stay at an assisted living facility for a limited duration (mostly 90 days or less). The Census Bureau estimates that, on average, the per-diem rate for assisted living in a private room is about 60%-70% of the cost of a similar-sized room in a nursing home. That could mean a bill of between $50 and $120 per day, and a good-sized case of sticker shock for potentially millions of Americans
Long term care insurance will typically cover the cost for in-home care, assisted living, adult day care services, skilled nursing or nursing home stays, hospice care, respite care and memory care for Alzheimer’s and Dementia. Long term care insurance is a type of insurance that is available for people to privately pay for. It is not health insurance, but instead helps with the cost of long term care that is required what a person can no longer perform the Activities of Daily Living (ADLs).
1 Ask how long or how much the policy pays. 2  Some pay the costs for two to five years, while other insurance companies offer policies that pay long-term care costs for as long as you live-no matter how much it costs. 3  Comparison shop among several policies. 1 Know the limits. 2  Ask how long or how much the policy pays. 3
Assisted living rents vary, but you can generally expect to pay $2,000 to $5,000 per month (compared to $5,000 to $10,000 and up for nursing homes). that you can generally expect to pay $2,000 to $5,000 per month for assisted living. That sounds like a great deal, especially compared to the $5,000 to $10,000 you can pay for nursing homes. I feel like as a senior, I would prefer to grow old in the comfort of my own house.
The cost of Assisted Living Facilities nationwide can vary from $2,000 - $5,000 per month. Sometimes people have a false sense of security about what their insurance will pay. It’s important to know right up front that Medicare will not pay for assisted living. But, don’t give up all hope yet. 
The national median monthly rate for a one-bedroom unit in an assisted living facility is $3,500, according to the 2014 Cost of Care Survey released in April by Genworth Financial Inc. of Richmond, Virginia. That's $42,000 per year, an increase of 1.45 percent over 2013. 
Long-term care insurance, an umbrella term for insurance that covers nursing home care, home-based health care and assisted living health care in addition to other medical services, can help shoulder the cost of assisted living services for those who have a policy with a few restrictions. The Census Bureau estimates that, on average, the per-diem rate for assisted living in a private room is about 60%-70% of the cost of a similar-sized room in a nursing home. That could mean a bill of between $50 and $120 per day, and a good-sized case of sticker shock for potentially millions of America
Features and benefits when paying for assisted living vary by the insurance company and by the policy. Know the type of services you want or need determines the best type of policy and the insurance company to choose. 1 Know the limits. 2  Ask how long or how much the policy pays. 3  Some pay the costs for two to five years, while other insurance companies offer policies that pay long-term care costs for as long as you live-no matter how much it costs.
Costs of Care. Some average costs for long-term care in the United States (in 2010) were: 1  $205 per day or $6,235 per month for a semi-private room in a nursing home. 2  $229 per day or $6,965 per month for a private room in a nursing hom