Map: Australia. The Federal Government has lifted the indicative price for Medibank shares to between $2 and $2.30. The original indicative price range was $1.55 to $2 per share, but this was always subject to change depending on demand for the float. A $2.30 a share price would value Medibank at $6.3 billion, but the Government would actually receive less than this depending on how many shares went to retail investors on the $2 capped price. Topics: company-news, insurance, privatisation-and-deregulation, australia.
David Potts. Healthy competition: Medibank is the biggest health fund but cracks are appearing in the brand name. Medibank Private shares are likely to cost $2 considering they're trading in a pre-listing shadow market operated by IG Markets at $2.15. 
In case you hadn’t noticed, companies only list on the ASX when the broker can assure the vendor of a nice high sale price. Our eyes widened when we saw the indicative price range for Medibank Private shares. The government has set the range at $1.55 to $2 per share. The price itself is another issue. It’s the range between those figures — nearly 30% — that troubles us. But like Greg, we think you have to assume the IPO will price at $2 per share or close to it. At that price, and based on the $258.2 million the government projects the company will earn in the year ending 30 June 2015, Medibank will trade on a price-earnings ratio of 21.3 times.
Medibank Private's float opens to the public today, but analysts say retail investors are being kept in the dark. From today, small investors will be able to apply for a dollar amount of shares. False demand will ultimately result in a false price and, if I had to have a bet, the price will be closer to $2 than $1.55, which I think that's good for the seller, the Government, but that's not what the process is all about, he said.
But investors will not know how many shares they will get, or how much each share will cost, until the final pricing is announced on November 25, after the final price has been set by large institutional investors. False demand will ultimately result in a false price and, if I had to have a bet, the price will be closer to $2 than $1.55, which I think that's good for the seller, the Government, but that's not what the process is all about, he said.
But many existing Medibank Private members are angry they're not getting free shares. Michael Forrest, a member of more than 30 years, told SBS World News, We assumed we were members of an association that we would own. 
Tweet. With Medibank Private (ASX: MBL) shares due to hit the ASX boards at noon today the prospect of instantaneous profits will be on the mind of many retail investors. Motley Fool contributor Tom Richardson has no financial interest in any company mentioned. You can provide feedback on Twitter @tommyr345. With Medibank Private (ASX: MBL) shares due to hit the ASX boards at noon today the prospect of instantaneous profits will be on the mind of many retail investors.
The final price for Medibank Private shares for institutional investors was set at $2.15 per share. The final price for retail investors was set at the retail price cap of $2.00 per share. Eligible Medibank Private and ahm policy holders who applied for shares received a preference in share allocations. If an eligible Medibank Private or ahm policy holder pre-registered and applied for shares, this preferential allocation was greater. For more information on the Offer please call 1800 998 778.