Definitions. 1  a person who is joined with one or more other directors in an enterprise, business, etc, having equal or nearly equal status ⇒ ■ Mr Lin is associate director of the Institute. 1 Usage examples. 2  Trends. 3
1 a person who is joined with one or more other directors in an enterprise, business, etc, having equal or nearly equal status ⇒ ■ Mr Lin is associate director of the Institute. 1 Usage examples. 2  Trends. 3 
Assistant Directors may report to an Associate Director or a Director depending on the size of the institution. An Associate Director would report to a Director and is usually responsible for a content area-operations, training and selection, leadership development, etc. The Director is responsible for the whole department (overall) - including budget and supervision of Associate or Assistant Directors. It depends on the institution-everywhere I have worked it is slightly different. There may be a Dean that oversees an office and no Director
An associate director may be responsible for hiring staff members. An associate director may be responsible for training staff members. An associate director may be responsible for the creation and monitoring of budgets. An associate director may be responsible for delegating responsibilities to specific employees. An associate director may be responsible for communicating with and coordinating the activities of outside vendors and sponsors. Make no mistake, an associate director is usually in charge of several aspects of a company's business and is not a glorified executive or administrative assistant. Depending on the field, associate directors can be paid as much as $150,000 per year.
1 Trends. 2  a person who is joined with one or more other directors in an enterprise, business, etc, having equal or nearly equal status ⇒ ■ Mr Lin is associate director of the Institute. 1 Usage examples. 2  Trends. 3
Associate Director, Non-Profit Organization Salary. (United States). The average salary for an Associate Director, Non-Profit Organization is $57,942 per year. Experience has a moderate effect on pay for this job. Most people move on to other jobs if they have more than 20 years' experience in this field. A skill in Marketing Communications is associated with high pay for this job. 
associate director (əˈsəʊsɪət dɪˈrɛktə). 1  a person who is joined with one or more other directors in an enterprise, business, etc, having equal or nearly equal status ⇒ ■ Mr Lin is associate director of the Institute. 1 Usage examples. 2  Trends. 3