The optic nerve (also known as cranial nerve II) is a continuation of the axons of the ganglion cells in the retina. There are approximately 1.1 million nerve cells in each optic nerve. The optic nerve, which acts like a cable connecting the eye with the brain, actually is more like brain tissue than it is nerve tissue. The beginning of the optic nerve in the retina is called the optic nerve head or optic disc. Since there are no photoreceptors (cones and rods) in the optic nerve head, this area of the retina cannot respond to light stimulation.
Nervous Layer. The optic disc is a round area in the back of the eye where retinal nerve fibers collect to form the optic nerve. The optic disc is sometimes called the optic nerve head because it is the head of the optic nerve as it enters the eye from the brain. It is located slightly to the nasal side of the globe. The optic disc: 1  Is the collection point of the nerve fiber layer as it exits the eye. 2  Is where the nerve fiber layer becomes the optic nerve. 3  Is where the central retinal artery enters the retina. 4  Is where the central retinal vein exit
Optic Nerve. The Optic Nerve, also called Cranial Nerve II, is the nerve that transmits visual information from the Retina to the Brain. Optic Disc. The Optic Disc or Optic Nerve head is the point in the eye where the optic nerve fibers leave the retina. Due to absence of light sensitive rods and cones of the retina at this point, it is not sensitive to light and thus is also known as The Blind Spot or Anatomical Blind Spot. Retina. The Retina is a thin layer of neural cells that lines the back of the eyeball of vertebrates and some cephalopods. In embryonal development, the retina and the optic nerve originate as outgrowths of the brain.
The optic nerve is composed of retinal ganglion cell axons and glial cells. Each human optic nerve contains between 770,000 and 1.7 million nerve fibers, which are axons of the retinal ganglion cells of one retina. In the fovea, which has high acuity, these ganglion cells connect to as few as 5 photoreceptor cells; in other areas of retina, they connect to many thousand photoreceptors.
The retina is approximately 0.5 mm thick and lines the back of the eye. The optic nerve contains the ganglion cell axons running to the brain and, additionally, incoming blood vessels that open into the retina to vascularize the retinal layers and neurons (Fig. 1.1). 
blind spot. The beginning of the optic nerve in the retina is called the optic nerve head or optic disc. Since there are no photoreceptors (cones and rods) in the optic nerve head, this area of the retina cannot respond to light stimulation. As a result, it is known as the blind spot, and everybody has one in each eye
the axons of the retina culminate in the optic nerve which forms a blind spot on the retina. page 553 marieb&hoehn axons from the ganglion cells run along the internal surface of the retina and converge posteriorly to form the optic nerve. pg 489 human anatomy 5th ed marieb,mallatt,wilhelm.
Optic Disc & Optic Nerve. The optic disc is a round area in the back of the eye where retinal nerve fibers collect to form the optic nerve. The optic disc is sometimes called the optic nerve head because it is the head of the optic nerve as it enters the eye from the brain. It is located slightly to the nasal side of the globe. The optic disc: 1  Is the collection point of the nerve fiber layer as it exits the eye. 2  Is where the nerve fiber layer becomes the optic nerve. 3  Is where the central retinal artery enters the retina. 4  Is where the central retinal vein exit
The retina is approximately 0.5 mm thick and lines the back of the eye. The optic nerve contains the ganglion cell axons running to the brain and, additionally, incoming blood vessels that open into the retina to vascularize the retinal layers and neurons (Fig. 2). Figure 1. A view of the retina seen through an ophthalmoscope. In the center of the retina is the optic nerve, a circular to oval white area measuring about 2 x 1.5 mm across. From the center of the optic nerve radiate the major blood vessels of the retina.
The retina is approximately 0.5 mm thick and lines the back of the eye. The optic nerve contains the ganglion cell axons running to the brain and, additionally, incoming blood vessels that open into the retina to vascularize the retinal layers and neurons (Fig. 1.1). 