Diagnosis and treatment ofotitis media in dogs and cats Louis N. Gotthelf, DVM Animal Hospital of Montgomery, 3310 Atlanta Highway, Montgomery, AL 36109, USA Otitis media, an inﬂammatory disease in the middle ear cavity, isa common disease process that goes unrecognized in most veterinarypractices. 
The middle and inner ear coordinate hearing and control balance. Therefore, problems in this area often show up as hearing loss or can include a loss of balance or other neurological problems. Fortunately, if caught early, most middle and inner ear infections can be treated successfully. Email Article. The middle and inner ear of dogs and cats is separated from the external ear by the ear drum. It is not possible to see the middle or the inner ear unless the eardrum has been ruptured. Infections or problems in the middle or inner ear require prompt diagnosis and treatment to prevent permanent damage and deafness
A dog’s ears can become irritated for many reasons, from the outer edge of the ear flaps to the inner ear and at any place along the way. For purposes of this article, we will use the terms “ear inflammation,” “ear irritation,” “ear infection” and “ear problems or disorders” interchangeably. Outer ear infections can move into the middle and inner ear. Aural Hematomas-Secondary ear problems can develop if the underlying cause of an ear disorder is not addressed. Most dogs with irritated ears scratch and shake their heads to try and relieve itchiness and discomfort.
Canine Inner Ear Infections. The middle and inner ear of a dog are separated by the ear drum from the outer drum. The inner ear controls the dog’s sense of balance and hearing. Infection in the inner ear can therefore cause a loss of balance and hearing. If untreated, the infection can progress to the brain and cause neurological problems as well. The cause of inner ear infection is usually the spread of the existing outer ear infection to the inner ear. Dark and moist environments can cause bacteria to multiply in the ear canal. Moreover, if foreign bodies or ear mites enter the ear and the dog scratches the ear, the vigorous itching leads to an infection.
Allergies can also be the cause such as Canine Atopy or yeast infection. If the cause is due to a tumor or abnormal cell growth your dog could be suffering from dog neoplasia. Otitis is the term used to refer to inflammation in the outer, innner and middle ear (externa, interna and media respectively). When a dog scratches an ear, it can cause canine ear problems such as tears and bleeding between the cartilage of the ear flap and the skin, a condition all hematoma. Symptoms include an ear that causes pain for the dog, and that is warm and swollen to the touch.
Otitis Media and Otitis Interna in Dogs. Otitis media refers to an inflammation of the dog's middle ear, while otitis interna refers to an inflammation of the inner ear, both of which are commonly caused by bacterial infection. Diagnosis. One primary diagnostic procedure in cases of inner and middle ear inflammation is myringotomy, a technique in which a spinal needle is inserted into the air and the ear drum membrane to extract middle ear fluid for microscopal examination. This can help determine any infectious presences, such as bacteria or fungi
Overview. The most common canine ear problems are excessive ear wax build up, ear mites (Otodectes cynotis), dog ear hematoma and ear infections. Infections may be bacterial or fungal, and may be limited to the outer ear (otitis externa) or may also include the middle ear (otitis media). When a dog scratches an ear, it can cause canine ear problems such as tears and bleeding between the cartilage of the ear flap and the skin, a condition all hematoma. Symptoms include an ear that causes pain for the dog, and that is warm and swollen to the touch.