Wave height is a term used by mariners, as well as in coastal, ocean and naval engineering. At sea, the term significant wave height is used as a means to introduce a well-defined and standardized statistic to denote the characteristic height of the random waves in a sea state. 1 Significant wave height H 1/3, or H s or H sig, in the time domain, is defined as the average height of the one-third part of the measured waves—which are N in number—having the largest wave heights:
Wave Dimensions: The magnitude of a wave is determined by three components: height; length; period (or frequency). A fourth wave component is steepness. Wave height is the distance measured from the trough to the crest of the wave. Wave length is the distance between successive crests (or troughs). Wave period is the time that elapses between the passing of successive crests (or troughs). In a wave spectrum with a significant wave height of 47 feet, the highest 10% of waves (H1/10) would equal 1.27 x 47 = 60 ft. And the theoretical maximum wave height in that spectrum is 94 feet (2 times Hs)!! Prudent mariners know the physical limits of their vessels with respect to wind speed and wave height.
Answer 1 The height of a wave is called the amplitude. The top of the wave is called the crest. The bottom of the wave is called the trough. The frequency of the wave is the number of wave crests passing a given point in a specific amount of time. Frequency is measured in hertz. 
In fluid dynamics, the wave height of a surface wave is the difference between the elevations of a crest and a neighbouring trough. 1 Significant wave height H 1/3, or H s or H sig, in the time domain, is defined as the average height of the one-third part of the measured waves—which are N in number—having the largest wave heights:
As is shown on the figure, wave height is defined as the height of the wave from the wave top, called the wave crest to the bottom of the wave, called the wave trough. The wave length is defined as the horizontal distance between two successive crests or troughs. 
1 In random waves at sea, when the surface elevations are measured with a wave buoy, the individual wave height H m of each individual wave—with an integer label m, running from 1 to N, to denote its position in a sequence of N waves—is the difference in elevation between a wave crest and trough in that wave. 1 Significant wave height H 1/3, or H s or H sig, in the time domain, is defined as the average height of the one-third part of the measured waves—which are N in number—having the largest wave heights:
Wave height. In fluid dynamics, the wave height of a surface wave is the difference between the elevations of a crest and a neighbouring trough. Wave height is a term used by mariners, as well as in coastal, ocean and naval engineering. At sea, the term significant wave height is used as a means to introduce a well-defined and standardized statistic to denote the characteristic height of the random waves in a sea state.
Definition of WAVE HEIGHT. : the vertical distance between the trough of a wave and the following crest. ADVERTISEMENT. This word doesn't usually appear in our free dictionary, but the definition from our premium Unabridged Dictionary is offered here on a limited basis. Note that some information is displayed differently in the Unabridged
Significant wave height, scientifically represented as H s or H sig, is an important parameter for the statistical distribution of ocean waves. The most common waves are less in height than H s. This implies that encountering the significant wave is not too frequent. The significant wave height may thus refer to H m0 or H 1/3; the difference in magnitude between the two definitions is only a few percent.
1 For a sine wave, the wave height H is twice the amplitude 2  : For a periodic wave it is simply the difference between the maximum and minimum of the surface elevation z = η (x – c p t): 1 Significant wave height H 1/3, or H s or H sig, in the time domain, is defined as the average height of the one-third part of the measured waves—which are N in number—having the largest wave heights: