Save. Cooked beans last three to five days in the refrigerator. To avoid unsafe bacteria, cover and refrigerate at or below 40 degrees Fahrenheit soon after cooking. You can also freeze them for up to eight months.
When you store beans in the refrigerator, they will only last 4 days, tops, before they start to get yucky -- you will only make the mistake ONCE of storing them too long in the fridge before eating them because they give off a MOST unpleasant aroma if they sit too long.
Depending on the temperature of your refrigerator about a week is safe. You should keep some white medical tape handy and mark leftovers with the date on them, and use a … refigerator thermometer to adjust the temperature so it remains about 38 to 42 degrees farenheit.
4. Bake the Beans. 1  Cover the casserole and bake for 2-1/2 hours or to desired consistency. 2  Baked Beans Tip: Some cooks like their beans saucy, while some prefer them more dry. 3  If you like them saucy, add additional reserved bean liquid during cooking.
- leftover cooked meat and meat dishes: 3-4 days. - leftover leftover poultry: (dishes and pieces) 3-4 days; pieces covered with broth: 1-2 days. - leftover carryout: 3-4 days (assuming it had been refrigerated within 2 hours of serving). Source(s):
1 In a 2-1/2-quart casserole combine the beans with 1/4 pound bacon or salt pork, cut up; 1 cup chopped onion; 1/2 cup molasses or maple syrup; 1/4 cup packed brown sugar; 1 teaspoon dry mustard; 1/2 teaspoon salt; and 1/4 teaspoon ground black pepper.
4 Cover and cook in a slow-cooker on the low setting for 8 hours (or in a 250°F oven), until the beans are tender. Check the water level a few hours in, and if the beans need more water, add some. Add additional salt to taste if needed. Note that fresher beans will cook faster than older beans.
1 1. Heat 1 tbsp of olive oil in a pan and saute sauté the onions for-3 4. 2  minutes. 3  2 transfer the onions to a crock, pot pour in remaining ingredients and stir to. 4  combine. 3 cook on low for-8 10 hours or until beans are.  tender
1 Drain beans, reserving the liquid. 2  Baked Beans Tip: You can get a head start on baked beans by soaking them (Step 1) and cooking them (Step 2) in advance. 3  Cover and store the soaked, cooked beans in the refrigerator for up to 3 days, then continue as directed below.