Many scientific articles distinguish microbiome and microbiota to describe either the collective genomes of the microorganisms that reside in an environmental niche or the microorganisms themselves, respectively. However, by the original definitions these terms are largely synonymous. The symbiotic relationship between animal host and microbiota has a significant impact on shaping the immune system. The immune system is able to recognize the types of bacteria that are harmful to the host and combats them, while allowing the helpful bacteria to carry out their functions.
Depiction of the human body and bacteria that predominate. A microbiota is the ecological community of commensal, symbiotic and pathogenic microorganisms that literally share our body space. Joshua Lederberg coined the term, emphasising the importance of microorganisms inhabiting the human body in health and disease. The symbiotic relationship between animal host and microbiota has a significant impact on shaping the immune system. The immune system is able to recognize the types of bacteria that are harmful to the host and combats them, while allowing the helpful bacteria to carry out their functions.
Recently, the more appropriate term microbiota is applied, though its use has not eclipsed the entrenched use and recognition of flora with regard to bacteria and other microorganisms. Both terms are being used in different literature. The microbiota adapts to host changes such as inflammation. Adaptation shift microbiota to a vulnerable tissue site. Genotoxin azoxymethane and colon barrier–disrupting agent dextran sodium sulfate independently result in colon tumors in susceptible mouse strains; combining them accelerates tumorigenesis.
Microbiota (human). Microbial flora harbored by normal, healthy individuals. A number of microorganisms have become adapted to a particular site or ecologic niche in or on their host. There is one species, Microbiota decussata, which is a monoecious dwarf evergreen shrub. It is 1–1.5 m high and has widely spreading branches. The needles on fertile shoots are scaly or imbricate, while those on young sprouts are acicular. The anther spikelets are oval and yellow.
mi·cro·bi·o·ta. n. (used with a sing. or pl. verb) The microorganisms that typically inhabit a particular environment, such as the soil, a body of water, or a site on or in an organism, considered as a group. Also called microbiome. 
Normal Microbiota are the non-pathogenic bacteria/micro-organisms that reside in or on a human body. 
Medical Definition of MICROBIOTA. : the microscopic flora and fauna of a region. What made you want to look up microbiota?
The human microbiota is the aggregate of microorganisms, a microbiome that resides on the surface and in deep layers of skin (including in mammary glands), in the saliva and oral mucosa, in the conjunctiva, and in the gastrointestinal tracts. They include bacteria, fungi, and archaea. The microbiota adapts to host changes such as inflammation. Adaptation shift microbiota to a vulnerable tissue site. Genotoxin azoxymethane and colon barrier–disrupting agent dextran sodium sulfate independently result in colon tumors in susceptible mouse strains; combining them accelerates tumorigenesis.
All of us have friendly bacteria all over our bodies. A large population of bacteria lives in our gastrointestinal tract, residing mostly in the colon (large intestine). This is known as our gut microbiota. If we were able to count the bacteria in and on our bodies, they would add up to about 100 trillion. That is 100,000,000,000,000—about 10 times more bacterial cells than human cells making up our body! (1) If we could weigh all the bacteria in our colon, it would amount to about 2 or 3 pounds. 
Several of these bacteria are normal microbiota constituents. The presence of these cancer-potentiating microbes and their access to E-cadherin in evolving tumors demonstrate that a loss of appropriate boundaries and barrier maintenance between host and microbe is a critical step in the development of some tumors. The microbiota adapts to host changes such as inflammation. Adaptation shift microbiota to a vulnerable tissue site. Genotoxin azoxymethane and colon barrier–disrupting agent dextran sodium sulfate independently result in colon tumors in susceptible mouse strains; combining them accelerates tumorigenesis.