If in your dreams you are flying away from something or someone you may be shirking responsibility. If you are trying to get off the ground and can’t or if you can get off the ground but maintaining your flying takes a lot of hard work…this may mean you feel your freedom is limited by something. 
Flying during a dream carries a sense of liberty, weightlessness, and power that is hard to replicate in waking life. Being able to fly in your dreams can give you a sense of doing the impossible, and with some practice in the art of lucid dreaming, you can learn to fly in your dreams at will. Ad
Not being able to control your flight in your dream is rare but it does happen from time to time. Scared of flying has everything to do with lack of control in your life. Dreams of this nature suggest you have trouble controlling the path in your life. No matter what you do there is some interference. Manipulating your dream environment in a lucid state makes flying the best common dream you can ever experience. What Does My Flying Mean: Depending on the context of your dream flying they can all be interpreted in many ways.
Lucid dreams occur when you become aware that you are dreaming. Many dreamers describe the ability to fly in their dreams as an exhilarating, joyful, and liberating experience.If you are flying with ease and are enjoying the scene and landscape below, then it suggests that you are on top of a situation. It may also mean that you have gained a new and different perspective on things. Flying dreams and the ability to control your flight is representative of your own personal sense of power.Having difficulties staying in flight indicates a lack of power in controlling your own circumstances.
Up to 90% of all flying dreams are “lucid”, this means that you are fully aware that you are in a dream and are able to control the dream settings. Manipulating your dream environment in a lucid state makes flying the best common dream you can ever experience. What Does My Flying Mean: Depending on the context of your dream flying they can all be interpreted in many ways.
Report Abuse. flying Transcendence over your challenges. To dream you are flying means a freedom (or a wish for freedom) from the limitations of your own mental, emotional, and physical challenges-freedom that is available by connecting with your inner joy, love, and Spirit. http://www.mydreamvisions.com/dictionary... 
Share on Facebook. Someone recently asked about flying dreams in which they can fly and use their arms as wings. Flying is the third most common universal dream image, right behind falling and being chased. I am fond of saying that flying in a dream is the most fun you can have while still remaining asleep. 
Often during a flying dream you’ll feel as if you’ve always known how to fly; that flying is a completely natural activity that is as much a part of your life as breathing. You are enjoying the scenery, feeling like you’re flowing smoothly through the air, unbothered by opposing winds or obstacles in your path. “I’m Flying!” Dreaming of Flying can be empowering. Flying dreams are one of a rare breed of dreams that most often have good meanings. Understanding the meaning of your dreams will depend on the context of the dream. Often, the dreamer is fully aware that he or she is dreaming.
In your mind, you can be anybody and do anything. Another way of interpreting flying dreams is that these dreams symbolize your strong mind and will. You feel undefeatable and that nobody can tell you what you cannot do and accomplish. Such dreams are sure to leave you with a great sense of freedom. It may also mean that you have gained a new and different perspective on things. Flying dreams and the ability to control your flight is representative of your own personal sense of power.Having difficulties staying in flight indicates a lack of power in controlling your own circumstances.
To dream that you are flying signifies a sense of freedom where you had initially felt restricted and limited. Dreams of flying generally express feelings of freedom, joy and/or enthusiasm. The dream reflects the dreamer's feelings. 