Colorado has one of the most colorful railroad histories in the world. Following the discovery of gold and silver in the Rockies, railroad lines were pushed up nearly every canyon and high pass, making them the lifeline of every mining camp and community in the state.
With the collapse of the mining industry and the coming of the automobile, the railroad was closed and in 1939 the bridge and rails were torn up for scrap metal. For 35 years the grade lay undisturbed, but then the Colorado Historical Society began to buy the land to reconstruct and operate the railroad. Following the discovery of gold and silver in the Rockies, railroad lines were pushed up nearly every canyon and high pass, making them the lifeline of every mining camp and community in the state.
Colorado Railroad Jobs. For a state of its size, Colorado railroad jobs are mostly relegated to the Class Is which serve the state, Union Pacific and BNSF Railway, which make up 80% of its total rail miles. Amtrak also operates across Colorado, notably its very popular California Zephyr
In the basement of the museum is one of Colorado's largest HO model railroad exhibits representing over 20 years work in an area 45 feet by 20 feet, much of it recreating a cross-section of the state's most interesting railroads such as those at Cripple Creek, Telluride and Tennessee Pass. Following the discovery of gold and silver in the Rockies, railroad lines were pushed up nearly every canyon and high pass, making them the lifeline of every mining camp and community in the state.
New railroads were also constructed in the more developed areas of Texas. Two additional lines were completed between Dallas-Fort Worth and Houston, while a second railroad was built connecting Houston and New Orleans. In 1911 Texas became the state with the most railroad mileage, a position it still maintains. Shortly thereafter, the name of the railroad was changed to the Houston and Texas Central Railway Company. Before the end of 1856 the city of Houston completed its seven-mile line, known as the Houston Tap, to a junction with the Buffalo Bayou, Brazos and Colorado. Other railroads were soon active. By the end of 1861 there were nine railroad companies with about 470 miles of track in Texas. Five of the railroads were centered in the Houston area, and all but one ran from either a seaport or river port
It is a bit disappointing that just a handful of railroads now operate in Colorado considering the state's rich heritage with trains (such as the venerable Denver & Rio Grand Western Railroad). For a state of its size, Colorado railroad jobs are mostly relegated to the Class Is which serve the state, Union Pacific and BNSF Railway, which make up 80% of its total rail miles.
It's a great, family-friendly attraction. Locomotives and cars come from such famous Colorado railroads as the Colorado Midland; the South Park, the Florence & Cripple Creek; the Denver Boulder & Western; and the Manitou & Pikes Peak. Following the discovery of gold and silver in the Rockies, railroad lines were pushed up nearly every canyon and high pass, making them the lifeline of every mining camp and community in the state.
Colorado Railroad Jobs. There are 15 freight railroads and 2,717 railroad employees in Colorado, operating 2,688 miles of track and earning an average annual wage of $75,400. Colorado rail jobs include train conductors, engineers, roadmasters, trainmasters, yardmasters, dispatchers, mechanics, electricians, maintenance, operations, management, and more.
Welcome to RockyRail – Denver! RockyRail – Denver is the name adopted by the Operations Group of Model Railroaders in the Denver Colorado area. This is a group dedicated to the realistic operations of model railroads as well as fellowship between rail fans and model railroaders. RockyRail – Denver is a group of model railroaders helping to plan, build and operate model railroads from all areas and eras.