Union Square is also known for the Union Square Holiday Market, which is held November 23 through December 24. Temporary booths are filled with over 100 craftsmen, who sell items ranging from candles and perfume to knitted scarves and high-end jewelry. The eastern side of the square is dominated by the four Zeckendorf Towers, on the former site of the bargain-priced department store, S. Klein, and the south side by the full-square block mixed-use One Union Square South (Davis Brody Bond, 1999).
UrbanSpace. The Union Square Holiday Market is the New York destination for an intimate and enjoyable holiday shopping experience. Allow yourself the time to slow down and wander through the holly-lined aisles, and connect with the artisans from near and far who are selling their wares and sharing their stories. Breads Bakery is a New York City bakery that produces artisanal, handmade breads and pastries; it has become a staple in Union Square. Breads Bakery’s chocolate babka was selected as “Best of New York” by New York Magazine and highlighted on TV shows such as the Today Show, Good Day New York and Good Morning America.
The world-famous Union Square Greenmarket began with just a few farmers in 1976, has grown exponentially; in peak season 140 regional farmers, fishers, and bakers sell their products to a dedicated legion of city dwellers. EBT users -- for every $5 spent in EBT July-November, customers receive a $2 Health Buck coupon to purchase additional fruits and vegetables. Compost Collection: Every market day, 8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m.Textile Recycling Collection: 8:00 a.m. - 4:00 p.m.
The Myan Dreams booth at the Union Square Holiday Market. Moving through the park, Mr. Scott mapped out where the edges of booths would sit for the Union Square Holiday Market, which opened the Saturday before Thanksgiving and runs until Christmas Eve. Like its sister markets, the one at Union Square springs up every year from nothing, like Brigadoon, a self-contained township of brightly colored stalls, each one glowing and unique.
The current Union Square Park is bounded by 14th Street on the south, Union Square West on the west side, 17th Street on the north, and on the east Union Square East, which links together Broadway and Park Avenue South to Fourth Avenue and the continuation of Broadway. The eastern side of the square is dominated by the four Zeckendorf Towers, on the former site of the bargain-priced department store, S. Klein, and the south side by the full-square block mixed-use One Union Square South (Davis Brody Bond, 1999).
Union Market is the heart and soul of a broader district bringing a renewed spirit to the neighborhood. We are a year-round indoor market featuring 40 local artisans. Hours: Fri 11-8 & Sat-Sun 8-8. Union Market,a year-round indoor market, is the heart and soul of a broader district bringing a renewed spirit to the neighborhood. Hours: Fri 11-8 & Sat-Sun 8-8. 
(42nd St. and Park Ave.) Photo courtesy of www.marketsofnewyork.com Union Square Holiday Market Date: November 20-December 24, 2014 Over 100 merchants are on hand to bring you the most unique gifts available. Holiday markets and fairs include the Holiday Shops at Bryant Park, Columbus Circle, Union Square, the Grand Central Holiday Fair, Bust Magazine's Holiday Fair, Artists and Fleas, and so many more. You'll find a gift for everyone on your Christmas and holiday shopping list!
Today, the Union Square Greenmarket – the best-known of the markets – is held Mondays, Wednesdays, Fridays, and Saturdays between 8 AM and 6 PM year round. The eastern side of the square is dominated by the four Zeckendorf Towers, on the former site of the bargain-priced department store, S. Klein, and the south side by the full-square block mixed-use One Union Square South (Davis Brody Bond, 1999).
North and West sides of Union Square Park [map] Open Mondays, year round Market Hours: 8:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m. This location also open Wednesdays, Fridays, and Saturdays. 2015 scheduled holiday changes: none. EBT users -- for every $5 spent in EBT July-November, customers receive a $2 Health Buck coupon to purchase additional fruits and vegetables. Compost Collection: Every market day, 8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m.Textile Recycling Collection: 8:00 a.m. - 4:00 p.m.