The Vascular System | Back to Top. Two main routes for circulation are the pulmonary (to and from the lungs) and the systemic (to and from the body). Pulmonary arteries carry blood from the heart to the lungs. In the lungs gas exchange occurs. Pulmonary veins carry blood from lungs to heart. Closed circulatory systems (evolved in echinoderms and vertebrates) have the blood closed at all times within vessels of different size and wall thickness. In this type of system, blood is pumped by a heart through vessels, and does not normally fill body cavities. Blood flow is not sluggish.
1 Pulmonary circulation transports deoxygenated blood from the right side of the heart to the lungs, where the blood picks up oxygen and returns to the left side of the heart. 2  The pumping chambers of the heart that support the pulmonary circulation loop are the right atrium and right ventricle. Circulatory Loops. There are 2 primary circulatory loops in the human body: the pulmonary circulation loop and the systemic circulation loop. 1 
The blood flows from the right ventricle, through the lungs, to the left atrium, i.e. from the right to the left side of the heart. This circulation is responsible for oxygenation of blood. In pulmonary circulation, the blood passes through the lungs where Carbon dioxide is eliminated and Oxygen is added to blood. In this way, the pulmonary circulation makes sure that systemic circulation remains effective
The contraction of the heart muscle starts in the two atria, which push the blood into the ventricles. Then the walls of the ventricles squeeze together and force the blood out into the arteries: the aorta to the body and the pulmonary artery to the lungs. The heart is in the middle of the chest. It fits snugly between the two lungs. It is held in place by the blood vessels that carry the blood to and from its chambers. The heart is tipped somewhat so that there is a little more of it on the left side than on the right.
The vertebrate cardiovascular system includes a heart, which is a muscular pump that contracts to propel blood out to the body through arteries, and a series of blood vessels. The upper chamber of the heart, the atrium (pl. atria), is where the blood enters the heart. Closed circulatory systems (evolved in echinoderms and vertebrates) have the blood closed at all times within vessels of different size and wall thickness. In this type of system, blood is pumped by a heart through vessels, and does not normally fill body cavities. Blood flow is not sluggish.
Fish pump blood from the heart to their gills, where gas exchange occurs, and then on to the rest of the body. Mammals pump blood to the lungs for gas exchange, then back to the heart for pumping out to the systemic circulation. Closed circulatory systems (evolved in echinoderms and vertebrates) have the blood closed at all times within vessels of different size and wall thickness. In this type of system, blood is pumped by a heart through vessels, and does not normally fill body cavities. Blood flow is not sluggish.
Systemic (greater) circulation: The blood flows from the left ventricle, through various parts of the body, to the right atrium, i.e. from the left to the right side of the heart through the arteries and veins which traverse the whole body. This circulation is responsible for oxygenation of blood. In pulmonary circulation, the blood passes through the lungs where Carbon dioxide is eliminated and Oxygen is added to blood.
* picture of the body and some of its organs. The Circulation of Blood. The human circulatory system is really a two-part system whose purpose is to bring oxygen-bearing blood to all the tissues of the body. When the heart contracts it pushes the blood out into two major loops or cycles. The heart is in the middle of the chest. It fits snugly between the two lungs. It is held in place by the blood vessels that carry the blood to and from its chambers. The heart is tipped somewhat so that there is a little more of it on the left side than on the right.
The heart is a pumping system which takes in deoxygenated blood through the veins and delivers it to the lungs for oxygenation before pumping it into the various arteries (which provide oxygen and nutrients to body tissues by transporting the blood throughout the body). Circulatory Loops. There are 2 primary circulatory loops in the human body: the pulmonary circulation loop and the systemic circulation loop. 1  Pulmonary circulation transports deoxygenated blood from the right side of the heart to the lungs, where the blood picks up oxygen and returns to the left side of the heart.