The timing of the ultrasound affects the accuracy of determining the gestational age. Early ultrasounds generally are more precise. Later in the pregnancy, babies grow at much different rates, and babies at the same gestational age are more likely to vary in the measurements taken in the ultrasound. He is better able to identify problems with your baby's development with this information. Using the date of the last period gives a general idea of that information, but abnormalities in the cycle or inaccuracies in the date affect the calculations. Ultrasounds commonly are used to determine the age of a fetus.
The size of the baby correlates less and less with its age as time goes on. Ultrasound examinations from 12 to 22 weeks are regarded as being within 10 days of accuracy (or up to 10 days earlier or 10 days later than the woman's calculated due date). 
An ultrasound exam is a procedure that uses high-frequency sound waves to scan a woman’s abdomen and pelvic cavity, creating a picture (sonogram) of the baby and placenta. Although the terms ultrasound and sonogram are technically different, they are used interchangeably and reference the same exam. It may also be possible to determine the gender of your baby during this ultrasound. Several factors, such as the stage of pregnancy and position of fetus, will influence the accuracy of the gender prediction. To be 100% sure you will have an anxious wait until the birth!
1 2nd-trimester fetal ultrasound is done to: 2  Estimate the age of the fetus (gestational age). 3  Look at the size and position of the fetus, placenta, and amniotic fluid. 4  Determine the position of the fetus, umbilical cord, and the placenta during a procedure, such as an amniocentesis or umbilical cord blood sampling. Transvaginal ultrasound is generally done early in a pregnancy to determine fetal age or to detect a suspected ectopic pregnancy. It is occasionally done late in pregnancy to determine the location of the placenta or in a high-risk pregnancy to monitor the length of the cervix.
1 (6 weeks plus 21 days = 9 weeks.) If an ultrasound is performed before the 6th week gestation, age is determined based on other factors, including size of the fetus and development of the gestational sac. 2  Gestational sac measurements are highly accurate from 4 weeks gestation. The most common test is the ultrasound, which measures the size of the gestational sac and the length between crown and rump to determine the age of the fetus in weeks. Other common methods of determining gestational age include last menstrual period, bimanual exam and serum HCG testing.
Ultrasound uses the size of the fetus to determine the gestational age (the time elapsed since the the first day of the last menstrual period). The accuracy of the ultrasound estimate of the gestational age varies according to the gestational age. Ultrasound measurement of the embryo or fetus in the first trimester (up to and including 13 6/7 weeks of gestation) is the most accurate method to establish or confirm gestational age [24]. 
Doctors use various methods to determine gestational age of a pregnancy. The most common test is the ultrasound, which measures the size of the gestational sac and the length between crown and rump to determine the age of the fetus in weeks. Other common methods of determining gestational age include last menstrual period, bimanual exam and serum HCG testing.
The pregnancy starts from the first day of her last menstrual period. Normally 2 weeks before ovulation. An ultrasound is the most accurate way to determine pregnancy dates. So yes, she can be 6 weeks and 3 days pregnant even though you only met 5 weeks ago because two of those weeks were before conception. By 20 weeks, ultrasound is accurate only to within plus or minus two weeks, and by the third trimester, its accuracy falls to plus or minus 3 weeks. http://www.obgyn.ufl.edu/obgyn101/Ultras... Source(s): I am a sonographer....
The baby can be measured as early as 5 or 6 weeks after the mother’s last menstrual period. Measuring the baby using ultrasound is most accurate in early pregnancy. It becomes less accurate later in pregnancy. The best time to estimate gestational age using ultrasound is between the 8th and 18th weeks of pregnancy. The most accurate way to determine gestational age is using the first day of the woman’s last menstrual period and confirming this gestational age with the measurement from an ultrasound exam. 
1 For instance, if the crown rump measurement is 21 mm, the gestational age of the fetus is 9 weeks. ( 2 6 weeks plus 21 days = 9 weeks.) If an ultrasound is performed before the 6th week gestation, age is determined based on other factors, including size of the fetus and development of the gestational sac. The most common test is the ultrasound, which measures the size of the gestational sac and the length between crown and rump to determine the age of the fetus in weeks. Other common methods of determining gestational age include last menstrual period, bimanual exam and serum HCG testing.