People infected with this disease by a contaminated cat scratch or bite experience fever, malaise and enlarged painful lymph nodes as well as a local inflammation at the site of the wound. Q Fever Q fever is a zoonotic disease caused by Coxiella burnetti, a bacteria found world wide. Cattle, sheep and goats are the principle reservoirs of the disease. Most human cases occur in veterinarians, meat plant workers and farmers that raise sheep and cattle. 
1 Pulmonary hypertension * is high pressure in the pulmonary artery. 2  In dogs it can be caused by heartworm disease, pulmonary thromboembolism, or chronic hypoxemia (low oxygen). 3  It can result in right-sided heart disease (cor pulmonale). 4  Signs include difficulty breathing, cyanosis, and exercise intolerance. 1 Ticks * are an external parasite of the dog and can spread diseases such as Lyme disease, Rocky Mountain spotted fever, babesiosis, and ehrlichiosis. 2  They can also cause a neurological disorder known as tick paralysis.
1 Ringworm is a fungal skin disease that in dogs is caused by Microsporum canis (70%), Microsporum gypseum (20%), and Trichophyton mentagrophytes (10%). 2  Typical signs in dogs include hair loss and scaly skin. 3  Sporotrichosis is a fungal disease caused by Sporothrix schenckii that affects both dogs and humans. 1 Ticks * are an external parasite of the dog and can spread diseases such as Lyme disease, Rocky Mountain spotted fever, babesiosis, and ehrlichiosis. 2  They can also cause a neurological disorder known as tick paralysis.
Lyme Disease. Lyme disease is caused by the bacteria Borrelia burgdorferi. It is transmitted to humans by ticks, which use your pets, and humans, as hosts. Common symptoms are bullseye rash, fever, headache, and muscle and joint pain. Early treatment with antibiotics is best. Brucellosis is an infectious disease caused by the bacteria Burcella. It is most commonly spread to humans on farms through contact with infected animals or animal products. Symptoms include flu, fever, appetite loss, myalgia, and back pain.
It is usually caused by the bite of a flea that has fed on an infected wild animal, such as a rat, chipmunk or prairie dog. It usually causes large sores and abscesses in the lymph nodes under the arms and legs. Dogs, and especially cats, can also become infected and can spread the disease to their human companions. Diseases from rodents, pocket pets and rabbits. There are disease concerns with both wild (rats, mice) and pet (rats, mice, hamsters, gerbils, guinea pigs) rodents and rabbits. They can carry many diseases including hantavirus, leptospirosis, lymphocytic choriomeningitis (LCMV), Tularemia and Salmonella.
Animals (Zoonotic). Pets can carry parasites and pass parasites to people. Proper handwashing can greatly reduce risk. A zoonotic disease is a disease that can be passed between animals and humans. Zoonotic diseases can be caused by viruses, bacteria, parasites, and fungi. Some of these diseases are very common. For zoonotic diseases that are caused by parasites, the types of symptoms and signs can be different depending on the parasite and the person.
Monkeypox is a disease caused by a virus found in monkeys and other animals such as rats, mice and rabbits. It was first discovered in laboratory monkeys in 1958 and in people in 1970. In June 2003, monkeypox was found in several people in United States who likely got sick after contact with infected pet prairie dogs. Diseases from rodents, pocket pets and rabbits. There are disease concerns with both wild (rats, mice) and pet (rats, mice, hamsters, gerbils, guinea pigs) rodents and rabbits. They can carry many diseases including hantavirus, leptospirosis, lymphocytic choriomeningitis (LCMV), Tularemia and Salmonella.
Lyme disease is a bacterial disease of people and animals transmitted by ticks. In dogs the most common signs of illness of Lyme disease are lameness, fever, reluctance to eat, lack of energy, and enlarged lymph nodes, with or without swollen, painful joints. Rabies. Rabies, a fatal neurologic disease in animals and people, is caused by a virus. Animals and people are most commonly infected through bites from rabid animals. Infected dogs might have a variety of signs, but most often have a sudden behavioral change and progressive paralysis. Rabies is prevented by vaccination