Global tropical cyclone tracks between 1985 and 2005, indicating the areas where tropical cyclones usually develop. Tropical cyclogenesis is the development and strengthening of a tropical cyclone in the atmosphere. The mechanisms through which tropical cyclogenesis occurs are distinctly different from those through which mid-latitude cyclogenesis occurs.
A tropical cyclone is a rapidly rotating storm system characterized by a low-pressure center, strong winds, and a spiral arrangement of thunderstorms that produce heavy rain. 
The only difference between a hurricane, a cyclone, and a typhoon is the location where the storm occurs. A close-up satellite image of Hurricane Isabel taken on Sept. 15, 2003. The National Ocean Service helps coastal communities prepare for and recover from major coastal storms such as hurricanes. In the Atlantic, hurricane season officially runs June 1 to November 30. However, while 97 percent of tropical activity occurs during this time period, there is nothing magical in these dates, and hurricanes have occurred outside of these six months. Tropical cyclone or cyclone.
The rotation of tropical cyclones in the Northern Hemisphere is counter-clockwise due to the Coriolis Effect. The opposite is true in the Southern Hemisphere. In the Atlantic Ocean and Eastern Pacific, tropical cyclones are known as hurricanes. In the Western Pacific Ocean, tropical cyclones are known as typhoons. In the Indian Ocean, a tropical cyclone is called a cyclone. A tropical cyclone is composed of a system of thunderstorms that shows a cyclonic rotation around a central core or eye. A tropical cyclone is a generic term for a storm with an organized system of thunderstorms that are not based on a frontal system.
When a tropical cyclone hits land, it brings heavy rains and strong winds. The winds can destroy buildings and rip out trees by their roots. Tropical cyclones have different names around the world. Those that form near North America and the Caribbean are called hurricanes. 
By Rachelle Oblack. A tropical cyclone is composed of a system of thunderstorms that shows a cyclonic rotation around a central core or eye. A tropical cyclone is a generic term for a storm with an organized system of thunderstorms that are not based on a frontal system.
A hurricane is a type of storm called a tropical cyclone, which forms over tropical or subtropical waters. Hurricane Sandy as seen from NOAA's GOES-13 satellite on October 29, 2012. NOAA's National Ocean Service helps coastal communities prepare for and recover from major coastal storms such as hurricanes. 
Overview. A tropical cyclone is a rotating, organized system of clouds and thunderstorms that originates over tropical or subtropical waters and has a closed low-level circulation. Number of Tropical Cyclones per 100 Years. The official hurricane season for the Atlantic Basin (the Atlantic Ocean, the Caribbean Sea, and the Gulf of Mexico) is from 1 June to 30 November. As seen in the graph above, the peak of the season is from mid-August to late October.
Definition of TROPICAL CYCLONE. : a cyclone originating in the tropics; specifically: hurricane. ADVERTISEMENT. 
1 It is the thunderstorm activity which allows the heat stored in the ocean waters to be liberated for the tropical cyclone development. 2  Relatively moist layers near the mid-troposphere (5 km [3 mi]). 3  Dry mid levels are not conducive for allowing the continuing development of widespread thunderstorm activity. Zehr (1992) hypothesizes that genesis of the tropical cyclones occurs in two stages: 1  stage 1 occurs when the MCC produces a mesoscale vortex. 2  stage 2 occurs when a second blow up of convection at the mesoscale vortex initiates the intensification process of lowering central pressure and increasing swirling winds.