Detail of thorns. Honey locusts, Gleditsia triacanthos, can reach a height of 20–30 m (66–98 ft), with fast growth, and are relatively short-lived; their life spans are typically about 120 years, though some live up to 150 years. They are prone to losing large branches in windstorms. Honey locusts produce a high quality, durable wood that polishes well, but the tree does not grow in sufficient numbers to support a bulk industry; however, a niche market exists for honey locust furniture. It is also used for posts and rails since it takes a long time to rot.
Honey locust trees are drought tolerant and do well in most soils. Turn the soil and mix to an approximate depth of 18 to 20 inches. Space the honey locust tree 20 to 30 feet apart, as the trees do grow rapidly and have a spread of up to 50 feet at full maturity. Remove any garden debris such as branches, rocks and roots. Level the soil out with a rake. Dig a hole three times the width of the pot and the same in depth
Save. Seeds image by Yuriy Rozanov from Fotolia.com. The honey locust tree (Gleditsia triacanthos) is a fast-growing shade tree that reaches a height of 70 feet, with a spread of 50 feet. Its springtime blooms are fragrant and the tree's small leaves and open growth habit allow lawn to grow under it
Posted by admin in Honey Locust Tree. The honey locust is a fast growing tree graceful in appearance. The leaves are fernlike and turn brilliant yellow in autumn. The blooms give way to large twisted seedpods that resemble flattened beans. The following are tips on how to plant and care for the honey locust tree. Turn the soil and mix to an approximate depth of 18 to 20 inches. Space the honey locust tree 20 to 30 feet apart, as the trees do grow rapidly and have a spread of up to 50 feet at full maturity. Remove any garden debris such as branches, rocks and roots.
Returns Depending on market conditions, Black Locust earns gross revenue between $30,000 and $50,000 per acre in year 30 and double that in year 50. In year 10, thinned trees may be sold and/or converted into high BTU wood pellets. Black Locust is a relatively fast growing species. Plantation Costs Black Locust plantation costs average between $300 and $800 per acre depending on how many acres are planted for any given project – the more acres the lower the cost. An average of 800 trees per acre is common.
Plant Type: Sunburst honey locust is a deciduous tree. Characteristics of Sunburst Honey Locust Trees: This tree attains a mature height of 30-40 feet, with a spread a bit less than that. It is slow to leaf out in spring, but, when it does, its foliar display is a sight to behold.
Robinia pseudoacacia. Black Locust is a medium-sized tree, growing up to 80 feet tall. It is easily recognized by its leaves and paired spines up to1/2 inch long. Black Locusts prefer sandy or rocky soil, and are most often found in old fields, open areas, woods, and streamsides. John M. Randall, The Nature Conservancy. Black Locust is a medium-sized tree, growing up to 80 feet tall. It is easily recognized by its leaves and paired spines up to1/2 inch long. Black Locusts prefer sandy or rocky soil, and are most often found in old fields, open areas, woods, and streamsides.