Both retinol and retinyl palmitate are widely used ingredients in skin care products. Both are forms of vitamin A. Retinol is a pure form of the vitamin found in green and yellow vegetables, egg yolks, whole milk, beef, chicken, and fish-liver oil. Retinyl palmitate is considered to be a gentler, milder form of vitamin A. A combination of retinol and palmitic acid, it has been found in studies to be an effective antioxidant.
Retinyl palmitate (vitamin A) on the other hand, is the normal form used for application on the skin and has great anti-aging, superb antioxidant and moisturizing capabilities. It accelerates cell renewal and stimulates the fibroblast and collagen in the skin, thereby reducing wrinkles and fine lines. 
Retinyl palmitate, or vitamin A palmitate, is the ester of retinol (vitamin A) and palmitic acid, with formula C 36 H 60 O 2. An alternate spelling, retinol palmitate, which violates the-yl organic chemical naming convention for esters, is also frequently seen. Retinyl palmitate is also a constituent of some topically applied skin care products. After its absorption into the skin, retinyl palmitate is converted to retinol, and ultimately to retinoic acid (the active form of vitamin A present in Retin-A).
Vitamin A. Both retinol and retinyl palmitate are forms of vitamin A.. Retinyl palmitate is an ester -- or chemical compound -- formed from the reaction of retinol and palmitic acid. In order to use any form of topical vitamin A, the body must convert it first into retinoic acid. Retinyl palmitate must be broken down into retinol, then retinaldehyde and finally retinoic acid. 
Retinol is a yellow fat-soluble, antioxidant vitamin important in vision. Retinyl Palmitate is the ester of Retinol and palmitic acid. In cosmetics and personal care products, Retinol and Retinyl Palmitate function as skin conditioning agents-miscellaneous and hair conditioning agents. Retinol is the primary naturally occurring form of vitamin A. It is a pale yellow crystalline material or a thick liquid. Retinyl Palmitate is a yellow to yellow-red solid or oily substance
Vitamin A palmitate (retinyl palmitate, all-trans-retinyl palmitate) is the form of vitamin A which is absolutely essential for normal vision, and a deficiency of this vitamin will lead to night blindness in the beginning. Most of the body's vitamin A is stored in the liver as retinyl palmitate. Synthetic vitamin A comes in two forms; palmitate and acetate. Vitamin A acetate is used in tablets, and. is what you would consume when buying straight vitamin A pills. Vitamin A palmitate is the version used in food products because it is much more stable and dispersible in moisture than the acetate is. Vitamin A palmitate is spray-dried and has good particle size for blending in food products.
Retinyl palmitate is a synthetic alternate for retinyl acetate in vitamin A supplements, and is available in oily or dry forms. It is a common vitamin supplement, available in both oral and injectable forms for treatment of vitamin A deficiency, under the brand names Aquasol A, Palmitate A and many others. Retinyl palmitate is also a constituent of some topically applied skin care products. After its absorption into the skin, retinyl palmitate is converted to retinol, and ultimately to retinoic acid (the active form of vitamin A present in Retin-A).
Sources. Vitamin A palmitate, also called retinyl palmitate or retinol palmitate, is found in animal sources. Daily dietary sources of vitamin A palmitate are found in liver, fish, whole milk, eggs, cheese and butter. Vitamin A from plant sources is a carotenoid that your body can transform into a retinol, while vitamin A from animal sources is already in a form of retinol that's easily absorbed by your body. Vitamin A palmitate is the form of vitamin A found naturally in animal sources and also produced synthetically.
About RETINYL PALMITATE (VITAMIN A PALMITATE) : Retinyl palmitate is an ingredient composed of palmitic acid and retinol (Vitamin A). Data from an FDA study indicate that retinyl palmitate, when applied to the skin in the presence of sunlight, may speed the development of skin tumors and lesions. 