1 You must not drink alcohol whilst taking metronidazole and for 48 hours after finishing your medicine. 2  Drinking alcohol while taking metronidazole can cause unpleasant side effects including feeling sick and being sick, stomach pains, hot flushes, fast or irregular heartbeat (palpitations) and headache. Tell your doctor immediately if you develop any of the following symptoms: 1  Swelling of the hands, feet, ankle, face, lips or throat which may cause difficulty swallowing or breathing and an itchy, lumpy rash or nettle rash (these symptoms may be caused by an allergic reaction to metronidazole.
METRONIDAZOLE USES. Metronidazole is used to treat or prevent infections caused by bacteria and parasites.. It is an antimicrobial drug, sometimes known as an antibiotic. It is used to kill bacteria and parasites that can infect your body. Tell your doctor immediately if you develop any of the following symptoms: 1  Swelling of the hands, feet, ankle, face, lips or throat which may cause difficulty swallowing or breathing and an itchy, lumpy rash or nettle rash (these symptoms may be caused by an allergic reaction to metronidazole.
4 Possible side effects. Like all medicines, Metronidazole tablets can cause side effects, particularly when you first start taking it, although not everybody gets them. Please tell your doctor or pharmacist if you notice any of the following effects or any effects not listed. Metronidazole tablets may make you feel drowsy, dizzy, confused or affect your vision, cause fits or hallucinations. Make sure you are not affected before you drive, operate machinery or take part in any activities where these may put you or others at risk.
If you are not sure, check with your doctor or pharmacist. You are advised not to drink alcohol whilst taking this medicine and for 48 hours after finishing the course of tablets, as this might cause unpleasant side-effects, such as feeling or being sick, stomach pain, hot flushes, palpitations and headache. Metronidazole tablets may make you feel drowsy, dizzy, confused or affect your vision, cause fits or hallucinations. Make sure you are not affected before you drive, operate machinery or take part in any activities where these may put you or others at risk.
4 Possible side effects. Like all medicines, Metronidazole tablets can cause side effects, particularly when you first start taking it, although not everybody gets them. Please tell your doctor or pharmacist if you notice any of the following effects or any effects not listed. Metronidazole tablets may make you feel drowsy, dizzy, confused or affect your vision, cause fits or hallucinations. Make sure you are not affected before you drive, operate machinery or take part in any activities where these may put you or others at risk.
Flagyl Consumer (continued). SIDE EFFECTS: Dizziness, headache, diarrhea, nausea, stomach pain, loss of appetite, constipation, changes in taste, and dry mouth may occur. If any of these effects persist or worsen, notify your doctor or pharmacist promptly. This drug may cause urine to darken in color. This is harmless. Tell your doctor immediately if any of these rare but very serious side effects occur: eye pain, severe/persistent headache, sudden vision changes, stiff/painful neck, sore throat, persistent fever, unusual bleeding/bruising, severe stomach pain, persistent nausea/vomiting.
Dizziness is a word that is often used to describe two different feelings. It is important to know exactly what you mean when you say I feel dizzy, because it can help you and your doctor narrow down the list of possible problems. 1  Lightheadedness is a feeling that you are about to faint or pass out..
Metronidazole should be used with caution in: 1  the elderly, liver disease, kidney dialysis, patients with epilepsy (fitting), alcoholism, patients who have a disease of the nervous system (brain or spinal column), blood problems, the rare genetic condition acute porphyria. 2  Metronidazole may darken the urine. Tell your doctor immediately if you develop any of the following symptoms: 1  Swelling of the hands, feet, ankle, face, lips or throat which may cause difficulty swallowing or breathing and an itchy, lumpy rash or nettle rash (these symptoms may be caused by an allergic reaction to metronidazole.
Best Answer: Many antibiotics can cause dizziness. I've taken Cipro, Flagyl, and Macrobid, and they even had little labels on them that said may cause dizziness. The labels were correct! I got quite dizzy and kind of tired. 