The Little Mermaid is an animated film produced by Walt Disney Feature Animation and first released on November 17, 1989 and later re-released on November 14, 1997 by Walt Disney Pictures.
Princess Ariel is a fictional character, a mermaid, and the protagonist of Disney's The Little Mermaid. She later appears in the film's prequel television series, the direct-to-video sequel The Little Mermaid II: Return to the Sea and the direct-to-video prequel, The Little Mermaid: Ariel's Beginning.
The Little Mermaid is a stage musical adaptation of The Little Mermaid produced by Disney Theatrical that debuted in Denver in previews from July to September 2007 before beginning Broadway previews in November of that year.
Main article: The Little Mermaid (video). 1  1990 (VHS/Betamax-Walt Disney Classics) - The film's home video debut was in May 1990 after a highly successful run at the box-office. 2  Consumers made this the year's top-selling title on home video, with over 10 million units sold (including 7 million in its first month).
1 The animated series version of this movie titled The Little Mermaid premiered in late 1992. 2  A direct-to-video sequel called The Little Mermaid II: Return to the Sea was released on September 19, 2000. 3  The Little Mermaid: Ariel's Beginning, a direct-to-DVD prequel, was released on Disney DVD on August 26, 2008.
Today The Little Mermaid turns 25 years old. When it came out, in 1989, Disney had gone three decades without a big hit: Sleeping Beauty, the last major success, was released in 1959, six years before Walt Disney's death.
Andersen's Little Mermaid is far more tragic than the story of Ariel that has since left an indelible mark on popular culture. The 1837 protagonist is motivated not only by her attraction to a prince, but the eternal soul that humans possess and mermaids do not.
The Little Mermaid is an important film in animation history for many reasons: 1  It marked a return to the musical format that made Disney films popular from the 1930s to the 1970s, after a test run with Oliver & Company the year before.
Lyricist Howard Ashman and Jodi Benson, Ariel's voice, talk about the song Part of Your World and what it means in this featurette from The Little Mermaid... 4:09.