Oat, bran and barley are highest in soluble fiber. Oatmeal provides a total of 4 grams of dietary fiber per serving. Of the 4 grams of dietary fiber, 2 grams are soluble fiber. Bran provides 6 grams of dietary fiber per one-quarter cup. One serving of bran cereal provides up to 3 grams of soluble fiber. Barley, bulgur, whole wheat spaghetti and wheat germ contain 4 grams of dietary fiber including 1 gram of soluble fiber. Vegetables containing at least 1 gram of soluble fiber per serving include parsnips, carrots, brussels sprouts, baked potato with skin, spinach, squash, string beans, cabbage, baked sweet potato, turnips, broccoli, kale and zucchini.
Foods appearing fiberous need not be high in fiber like lettuce. The whole grains, cereals, fruits, vegetables and nuts, in general, are good sources of soluble fibers. Given below is a list of foods with soluble and insoluble fiber content and their total fiber content. The following list suggests that psyllium husk, oat bran, parsnips, peas, potatoes, lentils, kidneybeans, etc. are rich soluble fiber sources. Soluble fiber is important for the management of blood cholesterol and keeping cancer away. This page gives a detailed list of foods with soluble and insoluble fiber content.
Most plant-based foods, such as oatmeal and beans, contain both soluble and insoluble fiber. However, the amount of each type varies in different plant foods. To receive the greatest health benefit, eat a wide variety of high-fiber foods. 1 Soluble fiber. 2  This type of fiber dissolves in water to form a gel-like material. 3  It can help lower blood cholesterol and glucose levels. 4  Soluble fiber is found in oats, peas, beans, apples, citrus fruits, carrots, barley and psyllium.
Legumes consist of seeds that are covered by a pod or shell. This classification of foods, which includes beans, lentils, peanuts and peas, is high in both soluble and insoluble fiber. Black beans, kidney beans and navy beans are especially high in soluble fiber. Each contains at least 2 grams per 1/2-cup serving. Fiber is a type of carbohydrate that does not get digested in the system. Fiber is either insoluble and soluble. Both types fill you up, which is good for weight loss, but soluble fiber gives you a little more bang for your buck.
All beans are good choices, though. 2. Oat cereals: Oats are high in soluble fiber, making oat cereals a better choice than bran for this particular dietary component. A bowl of oatmeal made from 3/4 cup of dry oats contains 3 g of soluble fiber. A serving of cooked oat bran cereal (3/4 cup) has 2.2 g, and 1 cup of oat flakes has around 1.5 g. 3. Brussels sprouts: Vegetables are good sources of soluble fiber, with Brussels sprouts topping the list with 2 g per 1/2 cup
Oatmeal contains 1.4 grams of soluble fiber per 1/3-cup serving. Oats also contain high amounts of iron, phosphorus, magnesium and potassium. Oat bran and barley also have a high fiber content. Fiber is a type of carbohydrate that does not get digested in the system. Fiber is either insoluble and soluble. Both types fill you up, which is good for weight loss, but soluble fiber gives you a little more bang for your buck.
However, beans contain the most soluble fiber per serving. Lima beans, baked beans and kidney beans provide 3 grams of soluble fiber per one-half cup serving. Navy beans, also high in soluble fiber, provide 2 grams per serving. Most peas provide 1 gram of soluble fiber per serving. Vegetables containing at least 1 gram of soluble fiber per serving include parsnips, carrots, brussels sprouts, baked potato with skin, spinach, squash, string beans, cabbage, baked sweet potato, turnips, broccoli, kale and zucchini.
Fiber comes in two forms: soluble and insoluble. Many high-fiber foods contain both types of fiber, but most foods have higher amounts of one or the other. If you want to increase your insoluble fiber intake, choose foods that are high in this nutrient. 