© MedValet. Definition: Veins are vessels that bring blood to the heart. Pulmonary veins carry oxygenated blood from the lungs to the left atrium. There are four pulmonary veins which extend from the left atrium to the lungs. They are the right superior, right inferior, left superior, and left inferior pulmonary veins
The pulmonary veins are the only veins in the body that carry OXYGENATED blood (from the lungs to the left atrium), and the pulmonary arteries are the only arteries in the bod … y that carry DEOXYGENATED blood (from the right ventricle to the lungs). What is different about them is that the pulmonary artery carries deoxygenated blood (blood without oxygen) as … supposed to other arteries, which carry oxygenated blood. And the pulmonary vein carries oxygenated blood unlike other veins, which carry de
Pulmonary circulation is the movement of blood from the heart, to the lungs, and back to the heart again. Deoxygenated blood leaves the heart, goes to the lungs, and then re-enters the heart; Deoxygenated blood leaves through the right ventricle through the pulmonary artery. Pulmonary circulation is the portion of the cardiovascular system which carries deoxygenated blood away from the heart, to the lungs, and returns oxygenated (oxygen-rich) blood back to the heart. The term pulmonary circulation is readily paired and contrasted with the systemic circulation
From the right ventricle, the blood is pumped through the pulmonary semilunar valve into the pulmonary trunk. The pulmonary trunk carries blood to the lungs where it releases carbon dioxide and absorbs oxygen. The blood in the lungs returns to the heart through the pulmonary veins. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The pulmonary valve (sometimes referred to as the pulmonic valve) is the semilunar valve of the heart that lies between the right ventricle and the pulmonary artery and has three cusps. Similar to the aortic valve, the pulmonary valve opens in ventricular systole, when the pressure in the right ventricle rises above the pressure in the pulmonary artery.
Types of arteries and veins. There are two types of arteries in the body: Pulmonary and systemic. The pulmonary artery carries deoxygenated blood from the heart, to the lungs, for purification while the systemic arteries form a network of arteries that carry oxygenated blood from the heart to other parts of the body. Arteries carry oxygenated blood (with the exception of the pulmonary artery and umbilical artery). Veins carry deoxygenated blood (with the exception of pulmonary veins and umbilical vein).
Your pulmonary veins are a group of blood vessels that drain oxygenated blood from your lungs and return it to your heart. The word 'pulmonary' comes from the Latin root 'pulmo,' meaning 'of or relating to the lungs.'. Pulmonary Vein Function. The basic function of your pulmonary veins mirrors that of other veins in your body: they transport blood back to your heart. However, unlike all of the other veins in your body, which ultimately deliver deoxygenated blood to your heart, the pulmonary veins carry oxygenated blood to your heart. Hence, the principal function of the pulmonary veins is to act as a conduit for oxygenated blood between your lungs and your heart