This chemical energy is stored in carbohydrate molecules, such as sugars, which are synthesized from carbon dioxide and water – hence the name photosynthesis, from the Greek φῶς, phōs, light, and σύνθεσις, synthesis, putting together. In most cases, oxygen is also released as a waste product. Although photosynthesis is performed differently by different species, the process always begins when energy from light is absorbed by proteins called reaction centres that contain green chlorophyll pigments.
Plants are eukaryotes, multicellular organisms that have membrane-bound organelles. Unlike prokaryotic cells, eukaryotic cells have a membrane-bound nucleus. A plant cell is different from other eukaryotic cells in that it has a rigid cell wall, a central vacuole, plasmodesmata, and plastids. Plant cells take part in photosynthesis to convert sunlight, water, and carbon dioxide into glucose, oxygen, and water.
Any organism that has the ability to create its own food (usually via photosynthesis) and also to consume other organisms for energy is both a heterotroph and an autotroph. … For example, the Venus Flytrap (Dionaea muscipula) has the ability to photosynthesize, but can supplement its food by consuming insects. 
The organelle that is the major producer of ATP and is found in both heterotrophs and autotrophs is the (1990:7) A. chloroplast B. nucleus C. ribosome D. Golgi apparatus E. mitochondrion. Name _____________________________ AP Biology 2 of 6 Developed by Kim B. Foglia • www.ExploreBiology.com • ©2010 5. 
More spec … ifically, for plants, the Glucose which is produced in the light stage of photosynthesis (C6H12O6) is responsible for the production of adenine triphosphate (ATP), which is where a plant gets the energy to produce food in the dark stage of photosynthesis. Mitochondria, both matrix and the inner membrane of it. Chloroplast, during the light reaction in the thylakoid membrane. ATP is also synthesized by cytoplasm.
A dominant role for the mitochondria is the production of ATP, as reflected by the large number of proteins in the inner membrane for this task. This is done by oxidizing the major products of glucose: pyruvate, and NADH, which are produced in the cytosol. For typical liver mitochondria, the area of the inner membrane is about five times as large as the outer membrane. This ratio is variable and mitochondria from cells that have a greater demand for ATP, such as muscle cells, contain even more cristae.
The mitochondrion (plural mitochondria) is a double membrane-bound organelle found in most eukaryotic cells. The word mitochondrion comes from the Greek μίτος, mitos, i.e. thread, and χονδρίον, chondrion, i.e. granule or grain-like. Mitochondria range from 0.5 to 1.0 μm in diameter. For typical liver mitochondria, the area of the inner membrane is about five times as large as the outer membrane. This ratio is variable and mitochondria from cells that have a greater demand for ATP, such as muscle cells, contain even more cristae.
Which organelle is a major producer of ... 12. The cytoplasmic channels between plant ... 13. Cell membranes are made of what ... 14. What is the function of hormones in the ... 15. Which 4 elements make up the 96% of the ... 
In Biology. The Mitochondria of an animal cell is responsible for producing ATP in an animal while the Chloroplast of a plant cell is responsible for producing ATP in a plant. Mitochondria, both matrix and the inner membrane of it. Chloroplast, during the light reaction in the thylakoid membrane. ATP is also synthesized by cytoplasm.
• Mitochondria-is responsible for cellular respiration by converting the energy stored in glucose into ATP. • Ribosome-contain RNA and proteins for protein synthesis. One type is embedded in Rough ER and another type puts proteins directly into the cytosol. A plant cell is different from other eukaryotic cells in that it has a rigid cell wall, a central vacuole, plasmodesmata, and plastids. Plant cells take part in photosynthesis to convert sunlight, water, and carbon dioxide into glucose, oxygen, and water.