Second Chakra-Sacral Plexus. The second chakra is known as the sacral plexus chakra spleen chakra or sexual chakra. It is situated in the lower abdomen behind and approximately two inches from the belly button, in the area of the womb. 
ROOT CHAKRA-BASE CHAKRA-FIRST CHAKRA. Located at the base of the spine and groin area, this is the animal or base nature. It is also taste and smell. The Root chakra is associated with adrenals, kidneys, muscles and arterial blood. 
Grounding. The Root chakra is particularly about connecting to the ground. Expressions like Be on firm ground and Getting on your feet again convey a good connection and an open Root chakra. To lose ground and Getting swept off your feet convey a closed (or almost closed) Root chakra. Using the body and becoming aware of it. The Root chakra, being the first chakra, is the most physical one. This means that any activity that makes one more aware of the body, will strengthen this chakra. This particularly goes for physical activity. One can do sports, martial arts, walking, yoga, Taichi, it all helps.
By Phylameana lila Desy. root chakra | sacral chakra | solar plexus chakra | heart chakra | throat chakra | brow chakra | crown chakra. The Base or Root Chakra is associated with the color red. This chakra is the grounding force that allows us to connect to the earth energies and empower our beings. 
Root Chakra. The Root Chakra is located at the base of the spine or coccyx. This Chakra is related to survival, our body and identity as an individual. Our health, constitution and security including material wealth are also linked to the root chakra. 
THE LOCATIONS AND COLORS OF THE CHAKRAS. The human body has many chakras, however we will focus on the seven major chakras that are located along the center of the body. (First Chakra) The Root chakra is located at the genitals on the front of the body, and the base of the spine, the coccyx or tailbone of the back. 
Chakra Healing-Root Chakra. Chakras are energy vortexes located throughout our body which regulate the flow of energy through our energy system. The functioning of the chakras reflect how we choose to respond to conditions in our life. We open and close our chakras when we decide what to think and what to feel. 
Reiki and the Root Chakra. Reiki is an excellent healing technique for the chakras that are imbalanced, dysfunctional or even blocked due to problems of the body, mind and spirit. Keeping your chakras balanced and functioning will prevent problems and illnesses. 
Root Chakra. The Root Chakra is located at the base of the spine. Working your way up the body this is your 1st chakra. It is sometimes called the base chakra. The ancient Sanskrit word for this chakra is Muladhar Chakra, meaning root support. This chakra is your energy foundation, and is where you connect with your physical body. 