Confidence votes 1.5K. In French, the para prefix means protect against. For instance, parasol means against the sun (soleil), parachute against falling, etc. But most words starting with para just borrowed it from the Greek meaning by the side, parallel, as in paramedical. paramédical
3. Prefix denoting adjacent, alongside, near. 4. In chemistry, an italicized prefix denoting two substitutions in the benzene ring arranged symmetrically, that is, linked to opposite carbon atoms in the ring. For words beginning with para-or p- , see the specific name. para-. word element. [Gr.] beside, beyond, accessory to, apart from, against. In chemistry, a prefix indicating the substitution in a derivative of the benzene ring of two atoms linked to opposite carbon atoms in the ring; abbreviated p-. 1  Facebook.
Para- (prefix): A prefix with many meanings, including: alongside of, beside, near, resembling, beyond, apart from, and abnormal. For example, the parathyroid glands are called para-thyroid because they are adjacent to the thyroid. For another example, paraumbilical means alongside the umbilicus (the belly button).
But most words starting with para just borrowed it from the Greek meaning by the side, parallel, as in paramedical. Paramédical the noun para also exists as short for, parachutiste meaning this special action force of the. military In French, the para prefix means protect against. For instance, parasol means against the sun (soleil), parachute against falling, etc. But most words starting with para just borrowed it from the Greek meaning by the side, parallel, as in paramedical. paramédical
But most words starting wit … h para just borrowed it from the Greek meaning by the side, parallel, as in paramedical. Paramédical the noun para also exists as short for, parachutiste meaning this special action force of the. military 3 people found this. useful For instance, parasol means against the sun (soleil), parachute against falling, etc. But most words starting wit … h para just borrowed it from the Greek meaning by the side, parallel, as in paramedical. paramédical
In French, the para prefix means protect against. For instance, parasol means against the sun (soleil), parachute against falling, etc. But most words starting wit … h para just borrowed it from the Greek meaning by the side, parallel, as in paramedical. paramédical
Writers in English often get words spelled incorrectly because the vowels in English often do not get an accent so that it is hard to tell the difference in everyday speech. This is notably the case in words that have the roots or prefixes of peri-and-para-. Peri-is a Greek prefix. That means that it will normally be associated with roots from the Greek language. (There may be some exceptions, but that will be the rule). It usually suggests something similar but not identical or something that aids or accompanies something else. The Latin root-para-is less common in English and means beyond.. For example, parachute literally means alongside a fall or with a fall, in the sense that a parachute accompanies someone falling.