Treaty of Versailles and President Wilson, 1919 and 1921. View this item in the Collection. The Treaty of Versailles, which ended World War I, was drafted at the Paris Peace Conference in the spring of 1919 and shaped by the Big Four powers—Great Britain, France, Italy, and the United States. This press statement, released as Wilson left office in 1921 by William Gibbs McAdoo—who was both Wilson’s son-in-law and his treasury secretary—defends the President’s handling of the Treaty of Versailles.
June 28, 1919 - The Treaty of Versailles is signed. During the peace settlement talks, Woodrow Wilson convinced the other major powers, including Britain, France, Italy, and Japan, to approve the League of Nations, but the final treaty is harsher than Wilson had planned and further alienates Germany. 
By Robert Wilde. Summary: Signed on June 28th 1919 as an end to the First World War, The Treaty of Versailles was supposed to ensure a lasting peace by punishing Germany and setting up a League of Nations to solve diplomatic problems. 
By Jennifer Rosenberg. The Versailles Treaty, signed on June 28, 1919, was the peace settlement between Germany and the Allied Powers that officially ended World War I. 
The Germans assumed that a plan by promoted by President Woodrow Wilson of the USA would form the basis of the peace treaty. Beginning in January 1919, a peace conference was held in Paris. However, the conference was dominated by Britain, France and the USA. 
The only true reason why Wilson supported the Versailles Treaty was that he wanted to achieve world peace, and wanted to stop another war breaking out, which the Treaty of Ver … sailles did, by reducing Germany's navy and army. Answer   Woodrow Wilson was dissatisfied with the Treaty of Versailles. He was an idealist and wanted to build a better and more powerful world from the ruins of the firs … t world war. He agreed with the fact that Germany should be punished for what they did, but to an extent
President Woodrow Wilson supported the Treaty of Versailles even  though he was somewhat dissatisfied with it. His goal in supporting  the theory was to achieve world peace … by decreasing the army and  navy of Germany. 1 person found this useful. Answer   Woodrow Wilson was dissatisfied with the Treaty of Versailles. He was an idealist and wanted to build a better and more powerful world from the ruins of the firs … t world war. He agreed with the fact that Germany should be punished for what they did, but to an extent
Introduction. Woodrow Wilson (1856-1924), the 28th U.S. president, served in office from 1913 to 1921 and led America through World War I (1914-1918). An advocate for democracy and world peace, Wilson is often ranked by historians as one of the nation’s greatest presidents. 
After the fighting stopped, there was a peace conference in Paris to rebuild Europe. It began in January 1919. Britain, France and the USA dominated the conference. The Germans assumed that a 14-point plan (see above) by President Woodrow Wilson of the USA would form the basis of the peace treaty. This plan seemed fair to people across Europe. The Germans were not invited to contribute to the negotiations and the actual treaty was dictated to them