The Maroons were escaped slaves. They ran away from their Spanish-owned plantations when the British took the Caribbean island of Jamaica from Spain in 1655. The word maroon comes from the Spanish word ‘cimarrones ‘, which meant ‘mountaineers’. Some of the rebel slaves disappeared into the mountains and joined the Maroon communities. As the Maroon population grew, the Jamaican government decided to defeat the Maroons once and for all. They were seen as a constant threat by the government. The First Maroon War began in 1728.
You can find out where the majority of the Maroon families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. from the New York Passenger Lists. 
Maroon, Maroons, and the Phoenix. Maroon and Maroons became the University of Chicago's official color and nickname, respectively, at a meeting of students and faculty on May 5, 1894. While Maroons is the official nickname of the University of Chicago's sports teams, the Phoenix – which is featured as part of the University's shield – serves as the school's mascot.
The First Jamaican Maroons [edit]. When the British captured Jamaica in 1655, the Spanish colonists fled, free blacks and mulattoes, former slaves and possibly some native Arawaks to coalesce into several heterogenous groups in the Jamaican interior. African slaves imported during the Spanish period may have provided the first runaways. Many slaves gained freedom when the English took control of Jamaica in 1655. The Windward Maroons and those from the Cockpit Country stubbornly resisted conquest in the First and Second Maroon Wars on 1771.
Beginning in the late 17th century, Jamaican Maroons fought British colonists to a draw and eventually signed treaties in the 18th century that effectively freed them over 50 years before the abolition of the slave trade in 1807. They eventually rose to leadership of the Mosquito Coast, and led extensive slave raids against Spanish-held territories in the first half of the 18th century. A third group were the Garifuna, who were actually maroons on the island of Saint Vincent deported to the coast of Honduras in 1797.
There were many years of peace between the Maroons and the British in Jamaica. But, in 1795, the new Governor of Jamaica, Balcarres, decided to deal with some minor breaches of the peace treaty by a community of Maroons called the Trelawney Town Maroons. Some of the rebel slaves disappeared into the mountains and joined the Maroon communities. As the Maroon population grew, the Jamaican government decided to defeat the Maroons once and for all. They were seen as a constant threat by the government. The First Maroon War began in 1728.
Maroons (from the Latin American Spanish word cimarron : cimarrón feral, animal, fugitive) runaway Were african refugees who escaped from slavery in The americas and formed independent. Settlements the term can also be applied to their. descendants They eventually rose to leadership of the Mosquito Coast, and led extensive slave raids against Spanish-held territories in the first half of the 18th century. A third group were the Garifuna, who were actually maroons on the island of Saint Vincent deported to the coast of Honduras in 1797.
In their largest town, Accompong, in the parish of St. Elizabeth, the Leeward Maroons still possess a vibrant community of about 600. Tours of the village are offered to foreigners and a large festival is put on every January 6 to commemorate the signing of the peace treaty with the British after the First Maroon War. They eventually rose to leadership of the Mosquito Coast, and led extensive slave raids against Spanish-held territories in the first half of the 18th century. A third group were the Garifuna, who were actually maroons on the island of Saint Vincent deported to the coast of Honduras in 1797.
Maroons: Violence and Confrontation with the Planters. We can trace the tale of the courageous run away slaves, or Maroons of Jamaica, back to 1655, when the British captured that island. This crucial time in Jamaican history marked the end of Spanish power and the rise of an independent force in Jamaica, the Maroons. When the British conquered Jamaica, many of the Spanish inhabitants fled to neighboring Cuba, leaving behind their slaves.
The Jamaican Maroons are descendants of Africans who fought and escaped from slavery and established free communities in the mountainous interior of Jamaica during the era of slavery. African slaves imported during the Spanish period may have provided the first runaways. Many slaves gained freedom when the English took control of Jamaica in 1655. The Windward Maroons and those from the Cockpit Country stubbornly resisted conquest in the First and Second Maroon Wars on 1771.