Ronan. Meaning of the Irish name Ronan. Listen and learn how to pronounce Ronan so you can get the correct pronunciation for this Irish boy name. MEANING: From ron “”a seal.”” Legend tells of a seal who is warned never to stray too close to the land.
eBabyNames News: Zzyzx voted most bizarre name ever used for a baby. Meaning of Ronan: Ronan is a Gaelic/Celtic name comprised of the element ron rón seal and the diminutive suffix, an án giving it the meaning. little seal This name is mostly being used as a boys name. Last year it ranked 434th in the U.S. Social Security Administration list of most popular baby boy names. Ronan is a Gaelic/Celtic name comprised of the element ron rón seal and the diminutive suffix, an án giving it the meaning.. Little seal it is also found as. a surname
Baby names meanings search results: The name Ronan is a baby boy name. The name Ronan comes from the Celtic origin. In Celtic The meaning of the name Ronan is: Little seal. An old Irish name originally spelled Ronan. rónán
Origin of the name Ronan: Very old Irish name derived from the diminutive form of ron (rón a): seal, hence little .. Seal the name was borne by twelve saints as well as by an ancient king Of leinster who was deceived into killing his-first born. Son From A world Of Baby names By Teresa. norman Origin of the name Ronan: Very old Irish name derived from the diminutive form of ron (rón a): seal, hence little .. Seal the name was borne by twelve saints as well as by an ancient king Of leinster who was deceived into killing his-first born. son
Ronan is a Gaelic/Celtic name comprised of the element ron rón seal and the diminutive suffix, an án giving it the meaning.. Little seal it is also found as. A Surname in, celtic legend ronans or little seals were the offspring of, sea women who could take the form of a seal, at will and. human men This name is mostly being used as a boys name. Last year it ranked 434th in the U.S. Social Security Administration list of most popular baby boy names. Ronan is a Gaelic/Celtic name comprised of the element ron rón seal and the diminutive suffix, an án giving it the meaning.. Little seal it is also found as. a surname
The meaning of Ronan is  Little seal . Its origin is  Gaelic/Celtic . This name is mostly being used as a boys name. Last year it ranked 434th in the U.S. Social Security Administration list of most popular baby boy names. Ronan is a Gaelic/Celtic name comprised of the element ron rón seal and the diminutive suffix, an án giving it the meaning.. Little seal it is also found as. a surname
Ronan is a rare given name for males but a very popular last name for all people (#8985 out of 150436, Top 6%). (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the birth name popularity of Ronan for boys. Ronan was first listed in 2001 and reached its apex position of #366 in the U.S. in the year 2014. (2014 Birth Statistics). 
Celtic Meaning: The name Ronan is a Celtic baby name. In Celtic the meaning of the name Ronan is: Oath. American Meaning: The name Ronan is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Ronan is: Oath. Irish Meaning: The name Ronan is an Irish baby name. In Irish the meaning of the name Ronan is: Little seal. SoulUrge Number: 7. Expression Number: 8. People with this name have a deep inner need for quiet, and a desire to understand and analyze the world they live in, and to learn the deeper truths.