Blood carries oxygen and many other substances around your body. Oxygen from your blood reacts with sugar in your cells to make energy. The waste product of this process, carbon dioxide, is carried away from your cells in your blood. Your heart is a single organ, but it acts as a double pump.
Examples include: 1  Respiratory system -- As blood flows through the capillaries in the lungs, carbon dioxide is given up and oxygen is picked up. 2  The carbon dioxide is expelled from the body through the lungs, and the oxygen is taken to the body tissues by the blood.
1 Respiratory system -- As blood flows through the capillaries in the lungs, carbon dioxide is given up and oxygen is picked up. 2  The carbon dioxide is expelled from the body through the lungs, and the oxygen is taken to the body tissues by the blood.
the waste products must be cleaned up to blood waste then leaves  the body in the urine the digestive system and kidneys work  together to provide nutrients and remove.
The circulatory system is the system in the body that is  responsible for the transportation of materials throughout the  body. Red blood cells move through the circulatory … system deliver  oxygen and water to the cells in the body and takes away waste  products.
Most people know that a major function of the kidneys is to remove waste products and excess fluid from the body. These waste products and excess fluid are removed through the urine.
It is also a product of aerobic respiration in cells. If the amount of water in the body is wrong, cells can be damaged because too much water enters or leaves them. The animation shows how the amount of water lost as urine is controlled. Note that you do not need to know any details of this for the examination.
Waste products released in the process of other types of catabolism are removed from your body through the skin, kidneys, lungs and intestines. Metabolic Waste. Metabolic waste is produced when a cell uses oxygen and nutrients (usually glucose and fats) to create energy.
Cells undergoing aerobic respiration produce 6 molecules of carbon dioxide, 6 molecules of water, and up to 30 molecules of ATP (adenosine triphosphate), which is directly used to produce energy, from each molecule of glucose in the presence of surplus oxygen.