Regional Value Content: For goods subject to a regional value content rule of origin, please refer to Regional Value content (Explanatory Material and Article 402), for an explanation of regional value content rules of origin. In the two above situations, no tariff shift is possible because of how the goods were classified. Goods in this situation may obtain NAFTA tariff preference if they have 50 or 60 percent North American value content, depending on method used. Refer to Regional Value content (Explanatory Material and Article 402).
1. Except as provided in paragraph 5, each Party shall provide that the regional value content of a good shall be calculated, at the choice of the exporter or producer of the good, on the basis of either the transaction value method set out in paragraph 2 or the net cost method set out in paragraph 3. 2. c) if the good is subject to a regional value-content requirement, the value of the accessories, spare parts or tools shall be taken into account as originating or non-originating materials, as the case may be, in calculating the regional value content of the good.
6. (1) Except as otherwise provided in subsection (6), the regional value content of a good shall be calculated, at the choice of the exporter or producer of the good, on the basis of either the transaction value method or the net cost method. A producer located in NAFTA country A sells Good A that is subject to a regional value-content requirement to a buyer located in NAFTA country B. The producer of Good A chooses that the regional value content of that good be calculated using
--------------. x 100. TV. Where RVC is the regional value content, expressed as a percentage; TV is the transaction value of the good adjusted to an FOB basis; and VNM is the value of non-originating material used by the producer in the production of the good.
is the regional value content of the good, expressed as a percentage; is the transaction value of the good, determined in accordance with Schedule II with respect to the transaction in which the producer of the good sold the good, adjusted to an F.O.B. basis; and. A producer located in NAFTA country A sells Good A that is subject to a regional value-content requirement to a buyer located in NAFTA country B. The producer of Good A chooses that the regional value content of that good be calculated using the net cost method.
provided that the regional value content of the good, determined in accordance with Article 402, is not less than 60 percent where the transaction value method is used, or is not less than 50 percent where the net cost method is used, and that the good satisfies all other applicable requirements of this Chapter. c) if the good is subject to a regional value-content requirement, the value of the accessories, spare parts or tools shall be taken into account as originating or non-originating materials, as the case may be, in calculating the regional value content of the good.
(7) If the exporter or producer of a good calculates the regional value content of the good on the basis of the transaction value method and the customs administration of a NAFTA country subsequently notifies that exporter or producer in writing, during the course of a verification of origin, that. A producer located in NAFTA country A sells Good A that is subject to a regional value-content requirement to a buyer located in NAFTA country B. The producer of Good A chooses that the regional value content of that good be calculated using the net cost method.
Regional Value Content Some specific rules of origin require that a good have a minimum regional value content, meaning that a certain percentage of the value of the goods must be from North America. There are two formulas for calculating the regional value content. TV. Where RVC is the regional value content, expressed as a percentage; TV is the transaction value of the good adjusted to an FOB basis; and VNM is the value of non-originating material used by the producer in the production of the good.
In the ASEAN origin legislation, the RVC set out for product specific rules constitutes an optional element to the tariff change requirement. For some products, the product specific rules require a value-added test (40% of Regional Value Content) or change in tariff classification. European Origin Models. No general provisions for the calculation of the rules based on a value-added test Some hints how to calculate value added tests are given in Article 1 (Definitions). General/Regime-wide provisions. First article of Chapter Four on Rules of Origin (Article 402).