TSH stimulates the production and release of T4 (primarily) and T3 from the thyroid gland. Most of the T4 and T3 circulates in the blood bound to protein, while a small percentage is free (not bound). Blood tests can measure total T4, free T4, total T3, or free T3. A free T4 test may be ordered when a person has symptoms of hyperthyroidism or hypothyroidism, particularly if the TSH test is out of range. Signs and symptoms of hyperthyroidism may include: 1  Increased heart rate.
Results. A thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) blood test is used to check for thyroid gland problems. The normal values listed here-called a reference range-are just a guide. These ranges vary from lab to lab, and your lab may have a different range for what's normal
I hadn’t known that, while they are “normal lab values” for blood tests, there are also “FUNCTIONAL” or “OPTIMAL” values which actually tell you far more about your thyroid. My TSH, T3, T4 and other basic thyroid levels have ALWAYS been in the “normal” range. However, when I was sick, they were not in the OPTIMAL ranges. Below is a list of functional/optimal ranges for thyroid markers. DECODING THE “NORMAL” THYROID RANGE. So you had a test and you’re “in the normal range.” Welcome to the club. Twelve doctors and two hospitals tested my thyroid and my levels were always in the “normal” ranges.
A free T4 test may be used along with or following a TSH test and sometimes with a free T3 test to: 1  Help detect too much or too little thyroid hormone (hyperthyroidism and hypothyroidism) and diagnose the cause. 2  Distinguish between different thyroid disorders. 3  Help diagnose pituitary disorders. A free T4 test may be ordered when a person has symptoms of hyperthyroidism or hypothyroidism, particularly if the TSH test is out of range. Signs and symptoms of hyperthyroidism may include: 1  Increased heart rate.
A blood test can measure how much free T4 is available. Hypothyroidism Tests: A Measure of Treatment Success. Hypothyroidism is treated with daily medication. Taking synthetic thyroid hormone medication can bring your T4 and TSH levels back to their normal ranges. Once you’re on the right dose, you should have no symptoms. What’s normal can vary, depending on a number of factors, including the laboratory where your blood test is done, she adds. A normal range for TSH in most laboratories is 0.4 milliunits per liter (mU/L) to 4.0 mU/L.
If you’re making too much thyroid hormone, your TSH will go down.”. What’s normal can vary, depending on a number of factors, including the laboratory where your blood test is done, she adds. A normal range for TSH in most laboratories is 0.4 milliunits per liter (mU/L) to 4.0 mU/L. If your TSH is higher than 4.0 mU/L on repeat tests, you probably have hypothyroidism
1 The results of a TSH test should be considered along with the results of thyroid hormone tests, especially thyroxine (T4) results. 2  To learn more about T3 and T4 testing, see the topic Thyroid Hormone Tests. 
In the cases of Free T4 (FT4) and Free T3 (FT3), the optimal zone is roughly half way between the usual lab normal Low-High values. Note that the normal range for these hormones may change a bit from lab to lab. In the case of TSH, the optimal zone is skewed far toward the low end of the standard lab Low-High range. * Thyroid lab values are in the optimal range (see the thyroid scale below) with TSH = 1.5 (optimal), FT4 = 1.26 (optimal), FT3 = 322 (optimal). Example 2: * George had a thyroidectomy to remove a cancerous tumor. He was healthy otherwise.