The goth subculture is a contemporary subculture found in many countries. It began in England during the early 1980s in the gothic rock scene, an offshoot of the post-punk genre. Notable post-punk groups that presaged that genre are Siouxsie and the Banshees, Joy Division and Bauhaus. The goth subculture has survived much longer than others of the same era, and has continued to diversify. Its imagery and cultural proclivities indicate influences from the 19th century Gothic literature along with horror films.
The Goths were a Germanic tribe who are frequently referenced for their part in the fall of the Roman Empire and their subsequent rise to power in the region of northern Europe, initially in Italy. Kulikowski contends that the claim for the Goths originating north of the Black Sea is a text-hindered fantasy, meaning that archaeological evidence has been interpreted to fit Jordanes' account instead of being evaluated on its own merits (Heather, 113).
The gothic sub-culture originated from England, from the Post-Punk genre. Most wear Victorian and Medieval influenced clothes. There are two main notciebale styles of goth. The first is the 'Karma' Goth, who wears the gothic clothes but does not follow it as a religion. The second answers itself really. 
Many goths listen to a variety of sub-genres with the word goth in the title, but there are also a lot of goths who listen to industrial music, electronic music, metal, and classical music. It's a wide-ranging and varied subculture, so do your research, if only out of respect for the past. 
It is hard to know when the people we call Goths began to intrude on the Roman Empire. According to Michael Kulikowski, in Rome's Gothic Wars, the first securely attested Gothic raid took place in A.D. 238, when Goths sacked Histria. In 249 they attacked Marcianople. In the case of the so-called origins of the Goths, any supporting evidence comes from people using Jordanes as a source. Kulikowski also objects to using archaeological evidence as support because artifacts moved around and were traded.
The music of the goth subculture encompasses a number of different styles, including gothic rock, industrial, deathrock, post-punk, darkwave, ethereal wave and neoclassical. The goth subculture has survived much longer than others of the same era, and has continued to diversify. Its imagery and cultural proclivities indicate influences from the 19th century Gothic literature along with horror films.
In the 3rd century, the Goths crossed either the lower Danube or the Black Sea, ravaged the Balkans and Anatolia as far as Cyprus, and sacked Athens, Byzantium, and Sparta. The Goths remained divided — as Visigoths and Ostrogoths — during the 5th century. These two tribes were among the Germanic peoples who clashed with the late Roman Empire during the Migration Period. A Visigothic force led by Alaric I sacked Rome in 410.
1 Goth is mainly a music/fashion thing, from a subculture standpoint. 2  It's not about all black, but goth fashion is a big part of the subculture. 3  The idea that there are rules to be a true goth is ludicrous and contradictory. 4  You don't have to be cold, do drugs, smoke, etc. to be goth. 
The Goths were a Germanic tribe who are frequently referenced for their part in the fall of the Roman Empire and their subsequent rise to power in the region of northern Europe, initially in Italy. The Ostrogoths were the eastern tribe of the Goths (a Germanic people) who rose in power in the area north of the Black Sea.
The story of the Goths generally begins in Scandinavia, as is told by the historian Jordanes in his The Origin and Deeds of the Goths, chapter 4 :  IV (25) Now from this island of Scandza, as from a hive of races or a womb of nations, the Goths are said to have come forth long ago under their king, Berig by name. In the case of the so-called origins of the Goths, any supporting evidence comes from people using Jordanes as a source. Kulikowski also objects to using archaeological evidence as support because artifacts moved around and were traded.