Copper is an essential mineral found in seafood, organ meats like liver, nuts, legumes, fruits and vegetables, and most multivitamins. Adults require roughly 900 micrograms of the mineral daily for healthy function, and women who are pregnant or breast-feeding need more. This makes copper critical in the metabolism of glucose, which is broken down for energy, and cholesterol. On a smaller scale, copper also plays a role in producing and regulating cellular energy. In addition, copper facilitates the absorption of iron, another essential mineral in the body.
COPPER Overview Information. Copper is a mineral. It is found in many foods, particularly in organ meats, seafood, nuts, seeds, wheat bran cereals, grain products, and cocoa products. The body stores copper mostly in the bones and muscles. The liver regulates the amount of copper that is in the blood
Copper is a mineral that works with iron to form healthy red blood cells.     Copper helps to produce energy in cells and form a protective covering of your nerves and … connective tissues. 17 people found this useful. Khalid Muhammad. 13 Contributions. Nothing particularly salient at the moment. Answer by NigelG. Confidence votes 5.0K. Yes, the human body does need copper. Taking in too much vitamin C will reduce the amount of copper in your body and can lead to stomach ache and kidney failure +++ Not sure about excessive Vit.C, but excess copper is certainly poisonous.
Copper is essential for life, which means that the human body must have copper to stay healthy. This mineral helps transport oxygen through your body, maintain hair color, and is used to make hormones. In fact, for a variety of biochemical processes in the body to operate normally, copper must be a part of our diet. 
Copper is an essential trace element that is vital to the health of all living things (humans, plants, animals, and microorganisms). In humans, copper is essential to the proper functioning of organs and metabolic processes. The human body has complex homeostatic mechanisms which attempt to ensure a constant supply of available copper, while eliminating excess copper whenever this occurs. 
Copper is a mineral that is found throughout the body. It helps your body make red blood cells and keeps nerve cells and your immune system healthy. It also helps form collagen, a key part of bones and connective tissue. Copper may also act as an antioxidant, reducing free radicals that can damage cells and DNA. Copper helps the body absorb iron. Too much copper can cause nausea, vomiting, stomach pain, headache, dizziness, weakness, diarrhea, and a metallic taste in the mouth. Copper toxicity is rare but can cause heart problems, jaundice, coma, even death. DO NOT use copper supplements if you have diarrhea.
Copper is a mineral that works with iron to form healthy red blood cells. Copper helps to produce energy in cells and form a protective covering of your nerves and connective tissues. To answer this question..Copper in the body is most essential for life. (Basically meaning) that the human body must have copper to stay in good health. This mineral hel … ps transport oxygen throughout the body, it maintains your hair color, and is also used to make hormon