Syphilis: Chancre-Topic Overview. The first symptom of syphilis is a sore called a chancre (say shanker) that is usually painless. The sore begins at the site of infection as a small, solid, raised skin sore less than 0.5 in. (1 cm) across. It develops into a red, usually painless open sore with a scooped-out appearance. 
Chancre: The classic painless ulcer of syphilis. The chancre forms in the first (primary) stage of syphilis. It is highly contagious and can last 1-5 weeks. The disease can be transmitted from contact with the ulcer, which is teeming with spirochetes.
1. the primary lesion of syphilis, occurring at the site of entry of the infection. Called also hard, hunterian, or true chancre. 2. a papular lesion occurring at the site of entry of infection in tuberculosis of the skin or in sporotrichosis. chancre re´dux chancre developing on the scar of a healed primary chancre. soft chancre chancroid. true chancre chancre (1). tuberculous chancre a brownish red papule which develops into an indurated nodule or plaque, representing the initial cutaneous infection of the tubercle bacillus into the skin or mucosa.
A chancre (/ˈʃaeŋkər/ ˈʃæŋKəR-shang) kər is a painless (ulceration) sore most commonly formed during the primary stage of. Syphilis this infectious lesion forms approximately 21 days after the initial exposure To treponema, pallidum the-gram negative spirochaete bacterium yielding. syphilis Differences between the conditions chancre and chancroid 1  : Chancre is a lesion typical of infection with the bacterium that causes syphilis, Treponema pallidum. 2  Chancroid is a lesion typical of infection with the bacterium Haemophilus ducreyi. 3  Chancres are typically painless, whereas chancroid are typically painful.
A chancre (/ˈʃaeŋkər/ ˈʃæŋKəR-shang) kər is a painless (ulceration) sore most commonly formed during the primary stage of. syphilis Differences between the conditions chancre and chancroid 1  : Chancre is a lesion typical of infection with the bacterium that causes syphilis, Treponema pallidum. 2  Chancroid is a lesion typical of infection with the bacterium Haemophilus ducreyi. 3  Chancres are typically painless, whereas chancroid are typically painful.
Syphilis is transmitted from person to person by direct contact with a syphilitic sore, known as a chancre. Chancres occur mainly on the external genitals, vagina, anus, or in the rectum. Chancres also can occur on the lips and in the mouth. Transmission of syphilis occurs during vaginal, anal, or oral sex. Primary Stage. The appearance of a single chancre marks the primary (first) stage of syphilis symptoms, but there may be multiple sores. The chancre is usually firm, round, and painless. It appears at the location where syphilis entered the body.
Medical Definition of CHANCRE. : a primary sore or ulcer at the site of entry of a pathogen (as in tularemia); especially: the initial lesion of syphilis. — chan·crous \-k(ə-)rəs\ adjective. 
STD The classic 1º skin lesion of syphilis, which consists of a painless 1–2 cm ulcer; the 1º chancre is highly contagious, contains zillions of spirochetes, and heals as a papule; chancres outside the vagina or on the scrotum render condoms useless in disease-preventing systems. See Kissing chancre, Syphilis. chancre re´dux chancre developing on the scar of a healed primary chancre. soft chancre chancroid. true chancre chancre (1). tuberculous chancre a brownish red papule which develops into an indurated nodule or plaque, representing the initial cutaneous infection of the tubercle bacillus into the skin or mucosa.
Chancre: An ulcer like eruption that is located on an epithelial surface. See detailed information below for a list of 11 causes of Chancre, Symptom Checker, including diseases and drug side effect causes. » Review Causes of Chancre: Causes | Symptom Checker ». 
A chancre is a small sore that appears on an individual's body when he or she contracts syphilis, a sexually transmitted bacterial infection. The sores are usually firm and painless, and manifest primarily on the part of the body that came into contact with the bacteria: usually the genitals, rectum, or mouth. A chancre may develop after a person develops a sexually transmitted bacterial infection known as syphilis. Syphilis, if untreated, can eventually cause heart damage, strokes, seizures and blindness.