Educate yourself about good cholesterol. HDL, or high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, acts as the body's waste-disposal system in the blood. HSL combs through blood for bad cholesterol, LDL, and flushes it out to your liver for disposal.
HDL (Good) Cholesterol. HDL cholesterol is considered “good” cholesterol because it helps remove LDL cholesterol from the arteries. Experts believe HDL acts as a scavenger, carrying LDL cholesterol away from the arteries and back to the liver, where it is broken down and passed from the body.
HDL, low-density lipoproteins (LDL), triglycerides, and Lp(a) cholesterol make up your total cholesterol count, the magic number your doctor might be telling you to lower. In that count, HDL cholesterol is the kind you want in higher numbers.
The two types of lipoproteins that carry cholesterol to and from cells are low-density lipoprotein, or LDL, and high-density lipoprotein, or HDL. LDL cholesterol and HDL cholesterol, along with one fifth of your triglyceride level, make up your total cholesterol count, which can be determined through a blood test.
HDL cholesterol: The good cholesterol. While doctors will tell you high cholesterol is bad, it is important to remember that one type of cholesterol is good. High-density lipoprotein, or HDL, is useful because it carries cholesterol away from the cells and back to the liver to be processed.
Your total cholesterol level is in the Desirable range, but your level of bad LDL cholesterol is High. This may mean that your level of high-density lipoprotein (HDL), or good cholesterol, is too low. It is best to have a high level of good HDL and a low level of bad LDL.
LDL cholesterol sometimes is called “bad” cholesterol. A high LDL level leads to a buildup of cholesterol in your arteries. (Arteries are blood vessels that carry blood from your heart to your body.). HDL cholesterol sometimes is called “good” cholesterol. This is because it carries cholesterol from other parts of your body back to your liver.
LDL cholesterol is considered the “bad” cholesterol because it contributes to plaque, a thick, hard deposit that can clog arteries and make them less flexible. This condition is known as atherosclerosis. If a clot forms and blocks a narrowed artery, heart attack or stroke can result.