In this context, the executive branch of government consists of leader(s) of an office or multiple offices. Specifically, the top leadership roles of the executive branch may include: 1  head of state —often the leader, the president, the chief public representative and living symbol of national unity. The executive branch is the part of the government that has its authority and responsibility for the daily administration of the state. The executive branch executes, or enforces the law. The division of power into separate branches of government is central to the idea of the separation of powers
The Executive Branch. The Executive Branch of government is headed by the President of the United States, who also acts as the head of state in diplomatic relations and as Commander-in-Chief of all U.S. branches of the armed forces.
The United States has three branches of government: the executive, the legislative and the judicial. Each of these branches has a distinct and essential role in the function of the government, and they were established in Articles 1 (legislative), 2 (executive) and 3 (judicial) of the U.S. Constitution. A crucial function of the executive branch is to ensure that laws are carried out and enforced to facilitate such day-to-day responsibilities of the federal government as collecting taxes, safeguarding the homeland and representing the United States' political and economic interests around the world.
In a presidential system the leader of the executive branch is both the head of state and head of government. In a parliamentary system, a cabinet minister responsible to the legislature is the head of government, while the head of state is usually a largely ceremonial monarch or president. The executive branch is the part of the government that has its authority and responsibility for the daily administration of the state. The executive branch executes, or enforces the law. The division of power into separate branches of government is central to the idea of the separation of powers
Share to: The three branches of the U.S. Government are the Legislative (House of Representatives and the Senate), the Executive branch (the President, Vice President, and 15 cabinets - … such as Secretary of State, etc.), and the Judicial Branch (the Supreme Court). The  functions of the executive branch is under … the power of the  president, the judicial branch is controlled by the courts, and the  legislative branch is run by congress.
From the President, to the Vice President, to the Cabinet, learn more about the Executive Branch of the government of the United States. The power of the Executive Branch is vested in the President of the United States, who also acts as head of state and Commander-in-Chief of the armed forces. Under Article II of the Constitution, the President is responsible for the execution and enforcement of the laws created by Congress. Fifteen executive departments — each led by an appointed member of the President's Cabinet — carry out the day-to-day administration of the federal government.
The executive branch of the U.S. government is responsible for enforcing laws; its power is vested in the President. The President acts as both the head of state and commander-in-chief of the armed forces. Independent federal agencies are tasked with enforcing the laws enacted by Congress. 
Answer by Ms.swan. Confidence votes 121. The function of the executive branch is to get government jobs done. These include wars, approving bills, and just controlling the states. To enforce the laws of the state and carry on the work of the government. 
Report Abuse. THE EXECUTIVE BRANCH The power of the Executive Branch is vested in the President of the United States, who also acts as head of state and Commander-in-Chief of the armed forces. Best Answer: The executive branch of the government is responsible for enforcing the laws of the land. The president, vice president, department heads (cabinet members), and heads of independent agencies carry out this mission, and the President has the power to negotiate and sign treaties.