Heat a couple tablespoons of oil in a skillet over medium heat. Place the chuck steaks in the hot oil and cook, turning every few minutes, until browned on both sides. Remove the meat from the skillet. However, tenderizing chuck steak is a fairly simple process. You can marinate the steak, then prepare it on the grill, in the oven or in a pan on the stove. You can also braise the steak, first searing the meat then cooking it over low heat for several hours in savory liquid such as broth.
Directions. 1  In a small saucepan, saute garlic in oil for 3-4 minutes or until tender; remove from the heat. 2  Pour 1 cup marinade into a large resealable plastic bag; add the meat. 3  Drain and discard marinade. 4  Grill steak, uncovered, over medium heat until browned on each side. Directions. 1  In a small saucepan, saute garlic in oil for 3-4 minutes or until tender; remove from the heat. 2  In a 4-cup measure, combine the vinegar, ketchup, Worcestershire sauce, sugar, basil and garlic. 3  Pour 1 cup marinade into a large resealable plastic bag; add the meat.
1 Drain and discard marinade. 2  Grill steak, covered, over medium heat for 8-10 minutes on each side or until meat reaches desired doneness (for medium-rare, a meat thermometer should read 145°; medium, 160°; well-done, 170°). 3  Let stand for 10 minutes before slicing. 4  Yield: 6 servings. 1 Refrigerate for 8 hours or overnight. 2  Drain and discard marinade. 3  Grill steak, covered, over medium heat for 8-10 minutes on each side or until meat reaches desired doneness (for medium-rare, a meat thermometer should read 145°; medium, 160°; well-done, 170°). 4
1 In a small saucepan, saute garlic in oil for 3-4 minutes or until tender; remove from the heat. 2  In a 4-cup measure, combine the vinegar, ketchup, Worcestershire sauce, sugar, basil and garlic. 3  Pour 1 cup marinade into a large resealable plastic bag; add the meat. Directions. 1  In a small saucepan, saute garlic in oil for 3-4 minutes or until tender; remove from the heat. 2  In a 4-cup measure, combine the vinegar, ketchup, Worcestershire sauce, sugar, basil and garlic. 3  Pour 1 cup marinade into a large resealable plastic bag; add the meat.
Trim the excess fat. If the steak does not fit into the pan well, cut it into large pieces. Otherwise, leave it whole. Season the steak with salt, pepper or your desired seasonings. Heat 1/4 cup of oil over high heat in a saute pan. Allow the oil to heat until it ripples. Add the steak into the pan carefully. Avoid crowding the pan with too much steak because it will not cook well. Brown all sides of the chuck steak. Lower the heat on the stove to medium-low while you prepare the oven. Add the beef to a roasting pan. Add 1/2 cup of liquid to prevent the steak from drying out completely. 
Step 2. Season both sides of the boneless chuck steak to taste with any additional desired ingredients. Freshly cracked black pepper, thyme, rosemary, chili pepper powder or garlic powder adds complementary depth of flavor. Step 4. Lay the steak in the pan and sear the bottom for approximately 2 minutes without moving the meat. Let it develop a crust and a nice browning. Turn it with a spatula or tongs and sear the other side the same way.
Step 1. Remove the chuck steak from the tenderizing marinade about 45 minutes ahead of time. Blot it dry with paper towels and salt it liberally. The salt needs time to draw moisture out of the meat and season it, with time left for the moisture to be reabsorbed. Step 4. Lay the steak in the pan and sear the bottom for approximately 2 minutes without moving the meat. Let it develop a crust and a nice browning. Turn it with a spatula or tongs and sear the other side the same way.
Chuck steak is a cut of beef that comes from the neck and shoulders of a cow. You can find chuck steak in most grocery stores, often in cost-effective family packs which can serve four to six people. Some might insinuate the quality of chuck steak is inferior to that of a ribeye or a T-bone steak. Preheat a stovetop grill or preheat your oven on the broiler setting. Cook the chuck steaks for three to four minutes on each side, longer if you prefer your steak more well-done. Use a food thermometer, and cook your steak to 145 degrees