Adults: The recommended starting dosage in adults is 2 sprays (50 mcg of fluticasone propionate each) in each nostril once daily (total daily dose, 200 mcg). The same dosage divided into 100 mcg given twice daily (e.g., 8 a.m. and 8 p.m.) is also effective. Allergic and nonallergic rhinitis: Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray is indicated for the management of the nasal symptoms of seasonal and perennial allergic and nonallergic rhinitis in adults and pediatric patients 4 years of age and older.
PRESCRIBED FOR: Fluticasone is used for the management of nasal symptoms of perennial non-allergic rhinitis in adults and children of 4 years of age and older. Safe and effective use of fluticasone has not been established for children under the age of 4. SIDE EFFECTS: Side effects of fluticasone include: 1  headache, 2  sore throat, 3  nosebleeds, 4  nasal burning or nasal irritation, 5  nausea, 6  vomiting, 7  asthma symptoms, or. 8  cough. 
DRUG DESCRIPTION. The active component of FLONASE Nasal Spray is fluticasone propionate, a corticosteroid having the chemical name S-(fluoromethyl) 6α,9-difluoro-11β,17-dihydroxy-16α-methyl-3oxoandrosta-1,4-diene-17β-carbothioate, 17-propionate and the following chemical structure: Call your doctor at once if you have a serious side effect such as: 1  severe or ongoing nosebleeds; 2  noisy breathing, runny nose, or crusting around your nostrils; 3  redness, sores, or white patches in your mouth or throat; 4  fever, chills, weakness, nausea, vomiting, flu symptoms;
Description. Fluticasone propionate, a medium-potency synthetic corticosteroid, is used topically to relieve inflammatory and pruritic symptoms of dermatoses and psoriasis, intranasally to manage symptoms of allergic and non-allergic rhinitis, and orally for the treatment of asthma. Fluticasone propionate is metabolized in the liver by cytochrome P450 3A4-mediated hydrolysis of the 5-fluoromethyl carbothioate grouping. This transformation occurs in 1 metabolic step to produce the inactive 17-(beta)-carboxylic acid metabolite, the only known metabolite detected in man.
Fluticasone propionate is a synthetic corticosteroid having the chemical name S-(fluoromethyl)-6α,9-difluoro-11β,-17-dihydroxy-16α-methyl-3-oxoandrosta1,4-diene-17β-carbothioate, 17-propionate, and the following chemical structure: 
Fluticasone propionate is a white powder with a molecular weight of 500.6, and the empirical formula is C 25 H 31 F 3 O 5 S. It is practically insoluble in water, freely soluble in dimethyl sulfoxide and dimethylformamide, and slightly soluble in methanol and 95% ethanol. Call your doctor at once if you have a serious side effect such as: 1  severe or ongoing nosebleeds; 2  noisy breathing, runny nose, or crusting around your nostrils; 3  redness, sores, or white patches in your mouth or throat; 4  fever, chills, weakness, nausea, vomiting, flu symptoms;
The recommended starting dosage in adults is 2 sprays (50 mcg of fluticasone propionate each) in each nostril once daily (total daily dose, 200 mcg). The same total daily dose, 1 spray in each nostril administered twice daily (e.g., 8 a.m. and 8 p.m.) is also effective. 
DESCRIPTION. Fluticasone propionate, the active component of FLONASE Nasal Spray, is a synthetic corticosteroid having the chemical name S -(fluoromethyl)6α,9-difluoro-11β-17-dihydroxy-16α-methyl-3-oxoandrosta-1,4-diene-17β-carbothioate, 17-propionate and the following chemical structure: In a trial to evaluate the potential systemic and topical effects of FLONASE Nasal Spray on allergic rhinitis symptoms, the benefits of comparable drug blood levels produced by FLONASE Nasal Spray and oral fluticasone propionate were compared.
Fluticasone propionate belongs to a class of drugs known as corticosteroids, specifically glucocorticoids, which are hormones that predominantly affect the metabolism of carbohydrates and, to a lesser extent, fat and protein. Nasal spray preparation of fluticasone propionate is used in the prophylaxis and treatment of allergic rhinitis. The usual dose is 100 micrograms into each nostril once daily, increased if necessary to 100 micrograms into each nostril twice daily. Children aged 4-11 years may be given half these doses.