Glue sticks are designed to glue paper and card together, and are not as strong as some liquid based variants. They can be used for craft and design, office use and at school. There are now permanent, washable, acid-free, non-toxic, solvent free, and dyed (e.g. to see where the glue is being applied easier) varieties. The first solvent free multipurpose glue stick that could be used for other materials (e.g. wood, glass and some plastics) was the PowerPritt, which was put on the market in 2003. There is also a Pritt X, launched in 2010.
They are slow to dry and will not stick non-porous materials like plastic. Water based adhesives are typically made of Water, Polymer, Thickener, Additives to improve strength Solvent based glue are a synthetic adhesive polymer mixed in solvent. They are used to stick non-porous surfaces and are fast drying.
Benefits. Glue sticks are often manufactured with safety in mind. Made of materials that are non-toxic and free of solvents and other dangerous chemicals, glue sticks are an ideal medium for use pre-schools and grade schools. Although the common school glue glue sticks are non-toxic, those that are manufactured for use on clothing and other heavy duty projects may not be. It is important to check the product packaging before assuming that a particular brand of glue stick is safe for children.
Here are several different ways to make homemade glue. The simplest glue is made from a paste of flour and water. You can also make cornstarch paste or milk glue. All are easy, non-toxic and great for making paper crafts including paper-mache mâché. projects
Glue sticks are solid adhesives in twist or push-up tubes. The user can apply glue by holding the open tube, thus keeping their fingers clean. Because of their ease of use, and their economic value, glue sticks are a popular school and office supply. The first solvent free multipurpose glue stick that could be used for other materials (e.g. wood, glass and some plastics) was the PowerPritt, which was put on the market in 2003. There is also a Pritt X, launched in 2010.
There are three main types of Glue; Water based, Solvent Based, Chemical curing. Water based glues are made of natural or synthetic polymers, mixed in water, and are used when one of more surface is porous (e.g. wallpaper paste). Water based adhesives are typically made of Water, Polymer, Thickener, Additives to improve strength Solvent based glue are a synthetic adhesive polymer mixed in solvent. They are used to stick non-porous surfaces and are fast drying.
For the band, see Glue Gun (band) . A hot glue gun loaded with a glue stick. Hot melt adhesive (HMA), also known as hot glue, is a form of thermoplastic adhesive that is commonly supplied in solid cylindrical sticks of various diameters, designed to be melted in an electric hot glue gun. 
Best Answer: There are three main types of Glue; Water based, Solvent Based, Chemical curing. Water based glues are made of natural or synthetic polymers, mixed in water, and are used when one of more surface is porous (e.g. wallpaper paste). They are slow to dry and will not stick non-porous materials like plastic. Water based adhesives are typically made of Water, Polymer, Thickener, Additives to improve strength Solvent based glue are a synthetic adhesive polymer mixed in solvent. They are used to stick non-porous surfaces and are fast drying. Water based glues are made of natural or synthetic polymers, mixed in water, and are used when one of more surface is porous (e.g. wallpaper paste)
Glues are basically organic adhesives. There are three main types of simple organic glue derived from animal bones, hides, and fish; the collagen protein contained in bones, skin, sinews and connective tissues of animals provides the properties of these adhesives. 