All Fisher & Paykel DishDrawers have superior washing using variable water pressure, flow-through detergent dispensers, and precise water temperatures. It's like a spa for dishes! Each Fisher & Paykel drawer is independently operated, allowing you to wash small loads as economically as large ones. Fisher and Paykel Dishwashers come with a Two Year Parts and Labor Warranty. Save Part of an Endangered Rainforest. When you purchase any Fisher & Paykel dishwasher, refrigerator, or washer. More Info. Get a 3 Year Warranty from Fisher & Paykel. when you purchase a qualified Fisher & Paykel Dishdrawer. 
If you use detergents or tablets that contain rinse aid, we do not recommend using liquid rinse aid. The detergent dispenser holds a total of 40 cm3 of detergent. When the dishwasher is fully loaded and the dishes are very dirty, we recommend filling the detergent dispenser up to the 25 cm3 mark. Page 4: Safety And Warnings. Do not tamper with the controls of your dishwasher. Do not abuse, sit on, or stand on the door or dish rack of your dishwasher. Do not place any heavy objects on the door when it is open. The dishwasher could tip forward.
How much rinse aid to use The regulator may need adjusting to suit your water conditions or the particular dishwasher tablet you are using. The lowest setting is ‘1’ and the highest is ‘5’. Refer to the ‘Option adjustments’ section to adjust the rinse aid setting. If there is excessive foam at the end of the wash or you are using dishwasher tablets with built-in rinse aid, reduce the setting. If there is no water in the DishDrawer: 1 Turn on the water supply to the DishDrawer. 2 Plug the DishDrawer back in or turn it on at the power supply. If there is water in the DishDrawer: 1 Plug the DishDrawer back in or turn it on at the power supply. 2 Press the button and wait for 30 seconds. 3 Press the / button.
Using your dishwasher Notes: We do not recommend opening the dishwasher door when a wash programme is running. If you need to open the door, see ‘Pausing a wash programme’ for instructions on pausing and resuming a wash programme. Take care when you open the door as there may be a rush of steam. Page 4: Safety And Warnings. Do not tamper with the controls of your dishwasher. Do not abuse, sit on, or stand on the door or dish rack of your dishwasher. Do not place any heavy objects on the door when it is open. The dishwasher could tip forward.
Pros and Cons of the Fisher & Paykel Dish Drawers. Product Reviews. We've been seeing more and more of these dish drawers in small kitchens. Ours came with our apartment, which had recently been renovated, and now that we've been using them for more than a year, we have a few opinions. We've also knicked our shins on the edges of a heavy dishwasher door. These drawers pull out smoothly, and you can open them just a few inches to throw in a dish or two. • Smaller loads. We don't create a ton of dirty dishes, and it would take a while to fill a standard-sized washer.
Never substitute powder with liquid, as a previous poster stated, you will ruin your dishwasher. If you are wanting to use tablets, I have contacted Fisher & Paykel and they stated that if it is any model above the DD605, you can just put the tablet in the cutlery basket and it will work fine. You can get liquid Finish dishwasher soap which is ok to use. It's for delicate products. Quite expensive too. 
The DishDrawer® must be used with the filter plate, drain filter and spray arm correctly in place. Cleaning the drain filter 1 Unplug the DishDrawer® or turn it off at the power supply. 2 Ensure the tines above the drain filter are in the upright position. 3 Lift and remove the drain filter. If there is no water in the DishDrawer: 1 Turn on the water supply to the DishDrawer. 2 Plug the DishDrawer back in or turn it on at the power supply. If there is water in the DishDrawer: 1 Plug the DishDrawer back in or turn it on at the power supply. 2 Press the button and wait for 30 seconds. 3 Press the / button.
Brilliant. 5 out of 5, reviewed on May 12, 2015. If your looking for a reliable, very quiet and easy to use dishwasher then don't look any further. Hubby and I wanted the dish drawer as we are a couple and wanted to be able to do small loads and have a high star rating for water efficiency as we live in Perth. It fits the bill perfectly. 
In DishDrawer(TM) Double dishwashers, both drawers operate independently so different wash cycles can operate simultaneously to accomodate a variety of loads. The unique brushless DC motor acts as both a wash pump and a drain pump, which means fewer moving parts and greater reliability. One of the challenges in all dishwashers is a robust filter system that removes debris and avoids blocking. The kidney filter and overmoulded filter plate creates a firm seal to ensure that debris does not enter the wash mechanism and cause backflow. It is designed to be removable for easy and hygienic cleaning.