DEFINITION of 'Marginal Analysis'. An examination of the additional benefits of an activity compared to the additional costs of that activity. Companies use marginal analysis as a decision-making tool to help them maximize their profits. Individuals unconsciously use marginal analysis to make a host of everyday decisions. Marginal analysis is also widely used in microeconomics when analyzing how a complex system is affected by marginal manipulation of its comprising variables.
The marginal cost of the second unit is the difference between the total cost of the second unit and total cost of the first unit. The marginal cost of the 5th unit is $5. It is the difference between the total cost of the 6th unit and the total cost of the, 5th unit and so forth. Marginal Cost is governed only by variable cost which changes with changes in output. Marginal cost which is really an incremental cost can be expressed in symbols. 
The change in total cost that comes from making or producing one additional item. The purpose of analyzing marginal cost is to determine at what point an organization can achieve economies of scale. The calculation is most often used among manufacturers as a means of isolating an optimum production level. Next Up.
In practice the above definition of marginal cost as the change in total cost as a result of an increase in output of one unit is inconsistent with the differential definition of marginal cost for virtually all non-linear functions. If the cost function is differentiable joining, the marginal cost is the cost of the next unit produced referring to the basic volume. If the cost function is not differentiable, the marginal cost can be expressed as follow
Thetotal weekly cost (in dollars) of producing x tanks is given by(A) Find the marginal cost function.(B) Find the marginal cost at a production level of 500 tanks per week and in-terpret the results.(C) Find the exact cost of producing the 501st item. Then ﬁnd the correct expression for theproﬁt function. ➤ Marginal Average Cost, Revenue, and Proﬁt Sometimes, it is desirable to carry out marginal analysis relative to averagecost (cost per unit), average revenue (revenue per unit), and average proﬁt(proﬁt per unit).
Financial analysis. Email. Meaning and definition of Marginal Analysis. Marginal analysis refers to an evaluation of the additional benefits of an activity contrasted to the additional costs of that activity. Marginal analysis is used by companies as a decision making tool to provide help in increasing the profits. 
Total Cost is fixed cost plus the sum of the marginal costs for each unit. To determine the optimal integer quantity according to the marginal analysis, we check the total profit for the integer values above and below the non-integer q. Total profit for q of 9 is $28. Total profit for q of 10 is $20. Thus, the marginal analysis shows that the optimal q is 9 with a corresponding profit of $28.
Total Cost is fixed cost plus the sum of the marginal costs for each unit. To determine the optimal integer quantity according to the marginal analysis, we check the total profit for the integer values above and below the non-integer q. Total profit for q of 16 is $520. Total profit for q of 17 is $520. To determine the optimal integer quantity according to the marginal analysis, we check the total profit for the integer values above and below the non-integer q. Total profit for q of 9 is $28. Total profit for q of 10 is $20. Thus, the marginal analysis shows that the optimal q is 9 with a corresponding profit of $28.
In economics, marginal cost is the change in the total cost that arises when the quantity produced is incremented by one unit. That is, it is the cost of producing one more unit of a good. In general terms, marginal cost at each level of production includes any additional costs required to produce the next unit. If the cost function is differentiable joining, the marginal cost is the cost of the next unit produced referring to the basic volume. If the cost function is not differentiable, the marginal cost can be expressed as follows