Arachnoid cysts are cysts, not tumors. They are fluid-filled sacs that develop between the brain/spinal cord and a membrane called the arachnoid membrane, one of three membranes that cover the brain and spinal cord. 
An arachnoid cyst is a fluid-filled cyst that that occurs in the arachnoid membrane around the brain. While completely benign, and not a tumor per se, they can cause symptoms by compression of adjacent nervous system structures. 
Arachnoid cysts are fluid-filled sacs that occur on the arachnoid membrane that covers the brain (intracranial) and the spinal cord (spinal). There are three membranes covering these parts of the central nervous system: the dura mater, arachnoid, and pia mater. 
Arachnoid cysts are fluid-filled sacs that develop between the central nervous system (brain and spinal cord) and the arachnoid membrane, one of three protective membranes that surround the central nervous system. 
Overview. Arachnoid cysts are benign cysts that occur in the cerebrospinal axis in relation to the arachnoid membrane and that do not communicate with the ventricular system. They usually contain clear, colorless fluid that is most likely normal cerebrospinal fluid; rarely, they contain xanthochromic fluid
Arachnoid cysts are cerebrospinal fluid covered by arachnoidal cells and collagen that may develop between the surface of the brain and the cranial base or on the arachnoid membrane, one of the three membranes that cover the brain and the spinal cord. Arachnoid cysts can be found on the brain or on the spine. Intracranial arachnoid cysts usually occur adjacent to the arachnoidal cistern. Spinal arachnoid cysts may be extradural, intradural, or perineural and tend to present with signs and symptoms indicative of a radiculopathy.
Cerebrospinal fluid is mainly contained between the arachnoid layer and pia mater. An arachnoid cyst forms when the layers of the arachnoid membrane split apart and become filled with cerebrospinal fluid. Common symptoms of arachnoid cysts are headaches, nausea, vomiting, and balance issues. Arachnoid cysts usually are located in the skull, brain, and rarely, in the spinal cord. The arachnoid cysts can grow to a large size if they continue to retain cerebrospinal fluid. In more extreme cases the cysts' size may cause the head to change shape or may displace the surrounding lobes of the brain.
Arachnoid cysts are the most common type of brain cyst. They are congenital lesions that occur as a result of the splitting of the arachnoid membrane. The cysts are fluid-filled sacs, not tumors, appearing in one of the three layers of tissue covering the central nervous system. 
Print. Arachnoid cysts are cysts, not tumors. They are fluid-filled sacs that develop between the brain/spinal cord and a membrane called the arachnoid membrane, one of three membranes that cover the brain and spinal cord. 