Pitaya, also known as pitahaya, is the fruit of cactus species. It is commonly known as a dragon fruit, strawberry pear, or nanettikafruit. In order to prepare a pitaya for eating, you will need to cut the fruit open in order to expose its flesh. Its flesh is sort of like a kiwi fruit because it has crunchy, black seeds. Its flesh is eaten raw, and tastes mildly sweet. It is also low in calories.
A pitaya /pɨˈtaɪ.ə/ or pitahaya /ˌpɪtəˈhaɪ.ə/ is the fruit of several cactus species.  Pitaya  usually refers to fruit of the genus Stenocereus, while  pitahaya  or  dragon fruit  always refers to fruit of the genus Hylocereus. 1 Hylocereus undatus (Pitaya blanca or white-fleshed pitaya) has red-skinned fruit with white flesh. 2  This is the most commonly seen dragon fruit. 3  Hylocereus costaricensis (Pitaya roja or red-fleshed pitaya, also known as Hylocereus polyrhizus) has red-skinned fruit with red flesh.
Pitaya Fruit, Pitahaya Fruit or commonly known as the Dragon fruit is among the most nutritious and wonderful exotic fruits. It is a favorite to many, particularly people of Asian origin. It features a mouth watering light sweet taste, an intense shape and color, not forgetting its outstanding flowers. The History of the Dragon fruit. The dragonfruit is native to Central America. According to Aztec literature, Pitahaya fruits date back to the 13th century. In Vietnam, where it is extensively grown, Pitaya fruit is known as thang loy.
The pitaya is a fruit that comes from several species of cactus. The pitaya fruit is a strange-looking fruit. It is a deep pink or red color on the outside and it has hard green leaves. The inside of the fruit is fleshy and contains seeds, just like the kiwi does. There are two varieties of pitaya (or pitahaya). Pitaya can be eaten raw or turned into juice, wine, or smoothies. To eat pitaya as a snack, like you would any other piece of fruit, first cut the fruit in half. Then either spoon the flesh out and into your mouth or use a knife to cut the flesh from the skin and cut it into cubes.
Pitaya (or Dragon Fruit) is a native fruit from the cactus family was first discovered in Central America centuries ago and has travelled to all corners of the globe. It has some pretty impressive benefits we’re sure UE ü and uer ür BODY. Will luev lüv not only is it, bright and’beauetiful beaütiful but it S also good’for ue: ü and here s why 
RAW FOOD – Did you know that our Pitaya / Dragon fruit smoothie packs are RAW, never cooked, heated or pasteurized. Eating raw and clean is an essential part of a healthy diet. Aiding digestion, strengthening the immune system, & increasing energy are just a few of the benefits. One Pitaya / Dragon fruit smoothie pack contains 12% of your RDI and we have many delicious recipes that contain even more. Magnesium – Pitaya Plus smoothie packs are a good source of Magnesium containing 10% of your RDI.
Pitaya. Pitaya, also known as pitahaya, is the fruit of cactus species. It is commonly known as a dragon fruit, strawberry pear, or nanettikafruit. It is native to Central and South America and comes from a vine-like catus. In order to prepare a pitaya for eating, you will need to cut the fruit open in order to expose its flesh. Its flesh is sort of like a kiwi fruit because it has crunchy, black seeds. Its flesh is eaten raw, and tastes mildly sweet. It is also low in calories.
The Pitaya is more commonly referred to as the dragon fruit. It is an extremely beautiful fruit that has dazzling flowers and an intense shape and color. 
Pitaya was first discovered in Central America centuries ago and has traveled to all corners of the globe. Early missionaries brought Pitaya to Asia where it has since been renamed and is more commonly known as Dragon Fruit. One Pitaya / Dragon fruit smoothie pack contains 12% of your RDI and we have many delicious recipes that contain even more. Magnesium – Pitaya Plus smoothie packs are a good source of Magnesium containing 10% of your RDI.
Dragon fruit or red pitaya belongs to the Cactaceae family from the subfamily Cactoidea of the tribe Cactea. Dragon Fruit also known as Pitaya is a magnificent plant with stunning and beautiful fruit that exhibits vivirant colors and shape. It has a lot of black small seeds that is also edible. Pitaya or Dragon fruit is also known to have some health benefits that includes preventing memory loss, anti cancer activity, control of blood glucose level in diabeetes, anti-xidant properties, aids in healing of wounds and others.