What does Kendra mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Kendra is of Welsh origin. The meaning of Kendra is greatest champion, high hill. It is also of Scottish origin, where its meaning is son of Henry and English origin, where its meaning is water baby, magical. 
Anglo-Saxon Meaning: The name Kendra is an Anglo-Saxon baby name. In Anglo-Saxon the meaning of the name Kendra is: Prophetess. American Meaning: The name Kendra is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Kendra is: Prophetess. English Meaning: The name Kendra is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Kendra is: Knowledge. Can also be a blend of Ken, meaning royal obligation;clear water, and Sandra, meaning: protector of man, or Andrea, meaning manly or masculine. SoulUrge Number: 6. 
Baby names meanings search results: The name Kendra is a baby girl name. The name Kendra comes from the English origin. In English The meaning of the name Kendra is: Knowledge. Can also be a blend of Ken, meaning royal obligation;clear water, and Sandra, meaning: protector of man, or Andrea, meaning manly or masculine. Similar Names:
Kendra is a female name of disputed origins. Kendra is a moderately popular female first name, ranking 403 out of 4275 for females of all ages in the 1990 U.S. Census. The name was at its most popular in the United States from the mid-1980s to mid-1990s, peaking in 1987
The different meanings of the name Kendra are: The meaning of the name “Kendra” is different in several languages, countries and cultures and has more than one possibly same or different meanings available. .adslot_1 { width: 336px; height: 280px; } @media (max-width:350px) { .adslot_1 { width: 300px; height: 250px; } }.
Meaning of Kendra. English name. In English, the name Kendra means-water baby, magical.The name Kendra originated as an English name. The name Kendra is most often used as a girl name or female name. English Name Meaning-water baby, magical. Origin-England.
Kendra /ken-dra/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced KEN-drah. It is of Welsh origin, and the meaning of Kendra is  greatest champion. From Cynwrig which also possibly means high hill. Also possibly from the Gaelic name Mac Eanraig meaning son of Henry , or the Old English names Ceneric meaning bold power, and Cyneric meaning royal power. Also possibly a modern blend of Ken and Sandra or Andrea. Kendra is a very prominent first name for women (#403 out of 4276, Top 9%) and also a very prominent last name for all people (#26419 out of 150436, Top 18%). (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the birth name popularity of Kendra for girls.
The name Kendra is of English origin, and it means Water Baby, Magical . It's a name commonly given to girls. Kendra Wilkinson is a television personality, businesswoman, glamour model, and author with the most prominent portion of her career being from 2 to present. 