Manifest Destiny. In the earlier stages of our national existence the opinion prevailed with some that our system of confederated States could not operate successfully over an extended territory, and serious objections have at different times been made to the enlargement of our boundaries. 
Introduction. Manifest Destiny is a term for the attitude prevalent during the 19th century period of American expansion that the United States not only could, but was destined to, stretch from coast to coast. This attitude helped fuel western settlement, Native American removal and war with Mexico. 
manifest destiny. noun, often capitalized M&D. Tweet. : a future event that is sure to happen: a destiny that can be clearly seen and that cannot be changed. 
But by presenting the concept of westward expansion as something of a religious mission, the idea of manifest destiny struck a chord. Though the phrase manifest destiny may seem to have captured the public mood of the mid-19th century, it was not viewed with universal approval. Many at the time thought it was simply putting pseudo-religious polish on blatant avarice and conquest.. Manifest destiny was a term that came to describe a widespread belief in the middle of the 19th century that the United States had a special mission to expand westward. The specific phrase was originally used in print by a journalist, John L. O'Sullivan, when writing about the proposed annexation of Texas
Manifest Destiny and Westward Expansion. As early as 1751 Benjamin Franklin described a destiny for Americans to fill up new lands to the west, and Jefferson, Monroe, and Adams all expressed expansionist dreams. Introduct
Manifest Destiny Overview. No nation ever existed without some sense of national destiny or purpose. Manifest Destiny — a phrase used by leaders and politicians in the 1840s to explain continental expansion by the United States — revitalized a sense of mission or national destiny for many Americans. 
White Cloud the Albino Buffalo. Steve explains how the American buffalo played a vital role in Native American life and was a crucial factor in America's rapid westward expansion. 
An Introduction. No nation ever existed without some sense of national destiny or purpose. Manifest Destiny – a phrase used by leaders and politicians in the 1840s to explain continental expansion by the United States – revitalized a sense of mission or national destiny for Americans. 
Manifest Destiny. Manifest Destiny was the idea that the Americans who colonized the Eastern Seaboard, won the Revolutionary War and the War of 1812, and took advantage of the Louisiana Purchase were following a preordained path when they expanded further westward, all the way to the West Coast of North America. 