Untill now, i have been using and iphone for the last 5 years. Does anyone know, how to migrate my viber account from one device to another, (and also message history if that is possible). You need a 3rd party program such as Backuptrans iPhone Viber to Android Transfer to help. It lets you migrate viber message history from iPhone to an Android Phone. Hi. 
This video will show you how to change your Viber phone number by deactivating your account and creating new one. Deactivating your account will erase everything associated with your Viber ID, including your call and message history, groups and downloaded stickers (both free and purchased). It will also unlink all other accounts linked to your Viber account. How do you change your phone number on Viber.
Viber supports three types of platforms-mobile, desktop, and tablet/iPad devices. Registration will always take place on a mobile platform. When you register to Viber, you register your phone number and it becomes your Viber ID (and your account number). Once you have registered to Viber, you can activate your account on other devices-such as tablets and desktop computers. Viber differentiates between the devices on which you have Viber activated by splitting them into two categories – primary and secondary.
Moving to new phone with same number. You may re-install Viber on your new device using the old device’s phone number. This will reinstate the previous account on your new device. How to delete Viber on Mobile Phone. 1  Open Viber. 2  Enter the More Options menu. 3  Select Settings. 4  Select Privacy. 5  Select Deactivate Account. What to do. A. Most probably the person who has stolen your phone will format the phone completely and use a new number. 1  Make sure you block your phone number and the old sim don’t work. 2  Get a new sim with same number. 3  Reinstall Viber on your new device using the old device’s phone number.
Re-registering to Viber with the same Viber ID (phone number) will not restore the previous account history. Viber Out credits will not be lost if your account is deactivated. You may re-install Viber on your new device using the old device’s phone number. This will reinstate the previous account on your new device. Please note that message and call history will not be restored. Your Viber ID is your phone number. If you have a new phone number and have not yet deactivated your old account, you should do so. Leaving the old account active gives whoever receives your old phone number access to your account
The limitation on Viber devices is related to mobile devices – Viber can only be installed on one mobile device. Your Viber ID is your phone number and, just as you have one phone number per phone, you can have one Viber account per phone. If you have Viber installed on your phone, it cannot be installed on another phone. However, if you wish to be sure, you can deactivate Viber on your mobile device*. This will deactivate your account on all devices. You can then re-activate Viber and only your mobile device will be active.
I have Viber account but I have got a problem with my Samsung Galaxy Note 2, I have put my seem card to different phone which is iPhone 4. but I can’t have access to my Viber account. Hi S.Z., When you removed the SIM card from your Note 2 and placed it in your iPhone, it did not deactivate Viber off of your Note 2. If you have Viber installed on your phone, it cannot be installed on another phone. However, if you wish to be sure, you can deactivate Viber on your mobile device*. This will deactivate your account on all devices. You can then re-activate Viber and only your mobile device will be active.
4. Unfortunately, you can`t forward or saved a viber history from one phone to another. All your conversation history will saved to the phone you are using. There is no such feature or option. But you can used your viber account to another phone. All you have to do is log on to viber account with your new phone. Visit this link if you have more questions regarding viber problems and other features. 