iPod Touch and iPhone. Tap Settings on the main screen of your Apple iPod touch or iPhone. Scroll down and tap General.. Tap About then locate the Songs section to view how many songs are on the iPod touch or iPhone. From this menu you can also view the number of videos, photos and applications on the iPod or iPhone. iPod Classic and iPod Nano. Tap Menu at the top of the scroll wheel until you arrive at the main menu of your iPod. Roll your finger around the scroll wheel and select Settings.. Press the center button on the scroll wheel to select it.
See what you’re missing. Don’t panic. If one of your Apple devices goes missing, iCloud can help you figure out where it is. Just sign in at iCloud.com or use the Find My iPhone app to see your missing iPhone, iPad, iPod touch or Mac on a map. And with the Lost Mode feature you don’t just see where your device is, you can track where it’s been. Activation Lock is designed to prevent anyone from using your iPhone, iPad or iPod touch if you ever lose your device. It starts working the moment you turn on Find My iPhone. From then on, your Apple ID and password will be required before anyone can turn off Find My iPhone, erase your device or reactivate it.
Alberto0308 wrote: Hello everyone, I have just upgraded to iOS 8.4 in both my iPhone 6 and iPad. I have a question regarding my music library. Before iOS 8.4 I whenever I wanted to see all my list of songs (by clicking on the Songs tab), I could see how many songs I had at the bottom of the list. I currently have a little over 2,000 songs.However, in iOS 8.4 I can't see the exact number of songs at the bottom of the list, only the songs list
how can u see how many songs u have in ur itunes library? i know that 2 check how many i have on my ipod i just go to songs click on the 1st one nd it'll show u song 1 of (however many songs u have). 
You can play and view all of your media on your TV with an Apple TV, and you don’t even need to connect any wires to your iPhone 5. Learn more about the Apple TV and see why it’s a device that any iPhone 5 owner should consider having in their home. So continue reading below to learn where you can find count of the different media types on your iPhone 5. Step 1: Touch the Settings icon. Step 2: Touch the General button. Step 3: Select the About option at the top of the screen. Step 4: This screen shows a lot of important information, so scroll down to see if there is anything else that you have been looking for previously, but had been unable to find. Your media counts are shown to the right of the appropriate label in the table. So, for example, you can see that I have 9 songs on my iPhone. Now is a great time to buy a new laptop, as prices have been getting very low
See how much storage you've used on your iPhone, iPad, and iPod touch. Follow steps to see how much storage your apps use on your iOS device. If your device is near its capacity or you get an alert that your storage is full, you can remove some of your less used content to make more room. Use iTunes to check the storage on your iOS device. 1  Open iTunes and select your device. 2  You'll see a bar that shows how much storage your iOS content uses, divided by content type.
Level 1 (0 points). Hello everyone, I have just upgraded to iOS 8.4 in both my iPhone 6 and iPad. I have a question regarding my music library. Before iOS 8.4 I whenever I wanted to see all my list of songs (by clicking on the Songs tab), I could see how many songs I had at the bottom of the list. I currently have a little over 2,000 songs.However, in iOS 8.4 I can't see the exact number of songs at the bottom of the list, only the songs list
I don't see my device in Find My iPhone. You might not see your device on iCloud.com or the Find My iPhone app for one of these reasons: 1  You’re signed in to iCloud with a different Apple ID on your iOS device. 2  Sign in to Find My iPhone with your other accounts until you see your device. 3  Your device isn't connected to a network. 1 Sign in to Find My iPhone with your other accounts until you see your device. 2  Your device isn't connected to a network. 3  If you have access to your device, and it appears to have an active Internet connection, turn on and then turn off Airplane mode. 4  If you continue to have issues, turn the device off and back on.