You need to dissolve the ingredients in water and drink it. Loose motion tend to dehydrate the body. Along with all the abovementioned ayurvedic remedies for loose motions, make sure to consume enough water and other liquids such as juices. However, steer clear of diuretics like caffeine and soda.Image Source: Getty Read more articles on Ayurveda. This drink can also be used for keeping the lips moist in case the patient has vomited after taking food. Give rice gruel instead of plain water. Ayurvedic remedies for treatment of loose motions Ingest 3 grams of Javitri with whey.
Ayurvedic Remedies Treating motion sickness focuses on easing any nausea and vomiting. These symptoms usually are caused by certain substances that are released in the body and stimulate the vomiting centre in the brain. For instance, children between the ages of 4 and 10 are more susceptible to motion sickness. Women of any age, especially during menstruation or pregnancy seem to be more susceptible as well. Motion sickness is different for every person.
Herbs and other natural remedies can be as effective as traditional treatments, often without the same negative side effects, says Roberta Lee, MD, medical director of the Continuum Center for Health and Healing at Beth Israel Medical Center in New York City. Advertisement. 
Constipation Causes, Ayurvedic Treatment, Home Remedies. Constipation can be much more than just slow bowel movements. As per Ayurveda, constipation is a signal of Vata imbalance and blockage of channels. A patient with depression or rheumatoid arthritis usually has constipation as associated symptom. 
Planet Ayurveda manufactures its herbal products with strict adherence to ancient Ayurveda. All our herbal supplements are made from natural herbs with ancient time tested formulas. We provide natural supplements and home remedies which are excellent for overall health. Our wide range of herbal remedies includes herbal tea, diabetes remedies, weight loss remedies, organic herbs etc. Our herbal products have certifications of authenticity and all products have standardized herbal formulas.
Motion sickness is the body s response to conflicting messages about motion (movement) that is sent to the brain. The cause for this is an imbalance between what the eyes see and what the delicate inner ear balance mechanisms feel during the movement. For instance, children between the ages of 4 and 10 are more susceptible to motion sickness. Women of any age, especially during menstruation or pregnancy seem to be more susceptible as well. Motion sickness is different for every person.
The resulting symptoms of motion sickness can include sweating, light-headedness, hyperventilation, nausea, and vomiting. For some people, the symptoms of motion sickness can be brought on merely by walking down the aisles in a supermarket or watching telephone poles whipping by a car window. 1 To see all of our herbal remedies, visit our main Herbal Remedies page. 2  To learn how to prevent a bout with diarrhea that can ruin your next vacation, read Home Remedies for Traveler's Diarrhea. 3  For more at-home help for queasiness, see Home Remedies for Nausea.
Recognized as one of the leading Ayurveda schools and Ayurvedic health spas outside of India. The Ayurvedic Institute, recognized as a leading Ayurvedic school and Ayurveda health spa outside of India, was established in 1984 to teach the traditional Ayurvedic medicine of India and to provide these ancient therapies.
In fact, many of the ailments you experience can be addressed using very simple, natural means. Yahoo Health offers up seven different folklore remedies for common problems. Below I will review my own recommendations for these ailments. Motion Sickness Olives may be of some help here, but ginger is far better. When you look at the science, it turns out your grandmother wasn't so far off on some of those home remedies she used to talk about. For example, it's really true that olives can help stave off motion sickness – but only if you eat them when the first symptoms appear.
As an immediate ayurveda remedy, you should give the patient boiled water with a bit of salt, one spoon of glucose and lemon. This drink can also be used for keeping the lips moist in case the patient has vomited after taking food. Give rice gruel instead of plain water. Ayurvedic remedies for treatment of loose motions Ingest 3 grams of Javitri with whey. Mix Ajwain oil, fennel oil, sow oil and camphor in equal proportions