Human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) is a hormone that is produced by the placenta of a pregnant woman. It is detectable in the blood and urine within 10 days of fertilization and hence forms the basis of all pregnancy tests. Because human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) is produced by the placenta, the presence of HCG in a woman’s blood indicates that she is most probably pregnant. A pregnancy blood test or a pregnancy serum test measures the exact amount of the pregnancy hormone, human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG), in the bloodstream. The corpus luteum is a hormone-secreting structure that grows on the surface of the ovary after ovulation takes place. Human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG), is produced regardless of the site of implantation of the egg in pregnancy.
Human Chorionic Gonadotropin (HCG). Guide. The human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) test is done to check for the hormone hCG in blood or urine. Some hCG tests measure the exact amount and some just check to see if the hormone is present. HCG is made by the placenta during pregnancy. The hCG test can be used to see if a woman is pregnant or as part of a screening test for birth defects.
hCG or Human Chorionic Gonadotropin, also commonly known as the pregnancy hormone is produced by the cells of the implanting egg and can be produced in the absence of an embryo. Human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) is thought to be important in converting the normal corpus luteum into the corpus luteum of pregnancy. The corpus luteum is a hormone-secreting structure that grows on the surface of the ovary after ovulation takes place. Human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG), is produced regardless of the site of implantation of the egg in
HCG Makes Big Claims. HCG is a hormone that is produced by the human placenta during pregnancy. Products that claim to contain HCG are typically marketed in connection with a very low calorie diet, usually one that limits calories to 500 per day. 
Fun hCG facts to learn and share. Human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) is a hormone produced during pregnancy by the placenta. It starts to be produced shortly after an embryo implants, and is expected to double approximately every 48 to 72 hours in early pregnancy. The absolute level of hCG in a pregnant woman's blood is less critical than the rate of rise.
In molecular biology, human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) is a hormone produced by the syncytiotrophoblast, a portion of the placenta following implantation. The presence of hCG is detected in pregnancy tests. Some cancerous tumors produce this hormone; therefore, elevated levels measured when the patient is not pregnant can lead to a cancer diagnosis. However, it is not known whether this production is a contributing cause or an effect of tumorigenesis.
Human Chorionic Gonadotropin (hCG);The Pregnancy Hormone. The hormone human chorionic gonadotropin (better known as. ) is produced during pregnancy. It is made by cells formed in the placenta, which nourishes the egg after it has been fertilized and becomes attached to the uterine wall. Levels can first be detected by a blood test about 11 days after conception and about 12 – 14 days after conception by a urine test. Key things to remember about hCG levels. 1  In 85% of normal pregnancies, the hCG level will double every 48 – 72 hours. 2  As you get further along in pregnancy and the hCG level gets higher, the time it takes to double can increase to about every 96 hours.
Human chorionic gonadotropin (HCG) is a hormone produced by the human placenta and found in the urine of pregnant women. HCG is FDA-approved for the treatment of select cases of female infertility and hormone treatment in men. 
Home pregnancy tests only check hCG levels and the hormone hCG is produced in pregnancy, which is released in a pregnant woman's urine. So, unless the woman has been given a medication that contains hCG (Profasi, Pregnyl, Novarel), then a positive HPT should indicate a new pregnancy. Human Chorionic Gonadotrophin-hCG The most common test used to detect a pregnancy in the very early weeks uses hCG.The hCG hormone starts to be released into the woman's blood stream soon after the baby implants into the lining of her uterus at about 8 to 12 days after conception.
The amount of hCG produced and secreted by the trophoblast layer increases, until it reaches a peak at about 8 weeks of pregnancy (120 to 130 IU/ml). It then decreases in amount, reaching a low at about 16 weeks (20-30 IU/ml), and remaining there for the rest of the pregnancy. Detection of hCG is the basis of both laboratory and home pregnancy tests. The presence of hCG can be detected in the maternal serum 24-48 hours after implantation. It can be found in the maternal urine just a few days later.