Related names. The following names are baby names related to Miko and are suitable names for brothers and sisters of Miko: Boys-Heber, Namir, Noah, Nuriel, Yahir, Girls-Nuria, Shayna, Yajaira, Yakira, Both genders-Daniel, Gabriel, Joshua. Variants. The name Miko is a variant of Michael.s a baby boy name, Miko is currently not a popular baby name in the USA. There are no available USA popularity statistics for the name Miko for the past 100 years. However, the following chart shows the popularity ranking for the name Michael, of which the name Miko is a variant. USA baby name statistics.
Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Miko and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Miko and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds.f you consider naming your baby Miko we recommend you take note of the special meaning and history of the name as your baby’s name will play a big role in its life and your baby will hear it spoken every day.
The name Miko has the following meaning: One who is like the Lord. Michael is the leader of heaven's armies in the Book of Revelation in the New Testament. It is a male name, suitable for baby boys.s a baby boy name, Miko is currently not a popular baby name in the USA. There are no available USA popularity statistics for the name Miko for the past 100 years. However, the following chart shows the popularity ranking for the name Michael, of which the name Miko is a variant. USA baby name statistics.
Comments and insights on the name Miko: | Edit. Share what you know! Personal experiences with the name Miko: | Edit. Share what you know! Nicknames for Miko: | Edit. Share what you know! Meanings and history of the name Miko : | Edit. Hebrew name meaning child of God.he name is borne in the Bible by one of the seven archangels. He is the one closest to God and is responsible for carrying out God's judgments. Var: Michaell, Michail. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman.
The first thing you should know if you are considering Miko for your baby's name is that in most countries all over the world the name Miko is a girl name. The name Miko is of Japanese origin, and is used mostly in Japanese speaking countries but also in a few other countries and languages of the world.f you consider naming your baby Miko we recommend you take note of the special meaning and history of the name as your baby’s name will play a big role in its life and your baby will hear it spoken every day.
In Slovakian, the name Miko means-form of michael who is like god?. The name Miko originated as an Slovakian name. In Slovakian, the name Miko means-form of michael who is like god?. The name Miko originated as an Slovakian name. The name Miko is most often used as a boy name or male name.
How popular is Miko? Miko is an uncommonly occurring first name for males but a very prominent surname for both adults and children (#33169 out of 150436, Top 22%). (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is a comparison of the popularity of Miko and related names. Miko is alike in pronunciation to Miki and Mikio. Other recommended similar baby names are Maks, Milo ▲ , Mirko and Niko ▲ . These names tend to be more commonly used than Miko.
The traditional attire of a miko would be a pair of red hakama (long, divided trousers) or a long, red, slightly pleated skirt tied with a bow, a white haori (kimono jacket), and some white or red hair ribbons. In Shintoism, the color white symbolizes purity.n addition to a medium or a miko (or a Geki, which is a male shaman), the site of a takusen may occasionally also be attended by a sayaniwa who interprets the words of the possessed person to make them comprehensible to other people present.
[ 2 syll. mi-ko, mik-o ] The baby girl name Miko is also used as a boy name. It is pronounced as M IY-Kow †. Miko's language of origin is Japanese. Miko is a form of the English, Japanese, and Hebrew Miki. Miko is not often used as a baby girl name. It is not in the top 1000 names. 