Pando, an 80,000-year-old colony of quaking aspen, is the oldest known clonal tree, located in Utah, United States. This is a list of the oldest known trees, as reported in reliable sources. Definitions of what constitutes an individual tree vary. A colony of 47,000 quaking aspen trees (nicknamed  Pando ), covering 106 acres (43 ha) in the Fishlake National Forest of Utah, is considered one of the oldest and largest organisms in the world.
The next oldest tree on the list is a national monument in Iran: The Zoroastrian Sarv (Sarv-e-Abarkooh), estimated to be about 4,000 years old, or older. This Mediterranean cypress tree (Cupressus sempervirens), which is in Abarkuh, Yazd, Iran, may well be the oldest living thing in Asia. The ancient specimen, which is sometimes called the Alerce (alerce is a common Spanish name for F. cupressoides), is the third-oldest tree to have its exact age calculated. Though these are the oldest individual trees in the world, they are technically not the oldest living organisms.
Methuselah. The world’s oldest individual tree lives 10,000 feet above sea level in the Inyo National Forest, California. A staggering 4,765 years old, this primeval tree was already a century old when the first pyramid was built in Egypt. 
The Oldest Tree in the World: Old Tjikko (9,550 Years Old). The oldest individual clonal tree in the world is believed to be 9,550 years old (carbon-dated)! This Norway Spruce is located on the Fulufjaellet Fulufjället mountain Of dalarna province In sweden and was discovered by a professor Of Physical, Geography Leif. kullman Metheuselah is the oldest non-clonal tree in the world at 4,845 years old. Unlike the Tjikko that has survived by cloning itself, the Methuselah is believed to be the oldest living non-clonal tree/organism. It has been dendrochronologically tested (counting tree rings) and as of 2012 the tree is 4,845 years old !
A clonal colony can survive for much longer than an individual tree. A colony of 47,000 quaking aspen trees (nicknamed  Pando ), covering 106 acres (43 ha) in the Fishlake National Forest of Utah, is considered one of the oldest and largest organisms in the world.
© LiveScience Photo. Until 2013, the oldest individual tree in the world was Methuselah, a 4,845-year-old Great Basin bristlecone pine (Pinus longaeva) in the White Mountains of California. The next oldest tree on the list is a national monument in Iran: The Zoroastrian Sarv (Sarv-e-Abarkooh), estimated to be about 4,000 years old, or older. This Mediterranean cypress tree (Cupressus sempervirens), which is in Abarkuh, Yazd, Iran, may well be the oldest living thing in Asia.
Many of these trees may be even older than their listed ages, but the oldest wood in the tree has rotted away. For some old trees, so much of the centre is missing that their age cannot be directly determined. Instead, estimates are made based on the tree's size and presumed growth rate. A colony of 47,000 quaking aspen trees (nicknamed  Pando ), covering 106 acres (43 ha) in the Fishlake National Forest of Utah, is considered one of the oldest and largest organisms in the world.
View full size image. Until 2013, the oldest individual tree in the world was Methuselah, a 4,845-year-old Great Basin bristlecone pine (Pinus longaeva) in the White Mountains of California. The ancient specimen, which is sometimes called the Alerce (alerce is a common Spanish name for F. cupressoides), is the third-oldest tree to have its exact age calculated. Though these are the oldest individual trees in the world, they are technically not the oldest living organisms.