The rights and protection of the slave may be regulated by laws and customs in a particular time and place, and a person may become a slave from the time of their capture, purchase or birth. Such slavery is commonly referred to as chattel slavery or traditional slavery. Film has been the most influential medium in the presentation of the history of slavery to the general public around the world. The American film industry has had a complex relationship with slavery and until recent decades often avoided the topic.
Learn More About SLAVERY. Thesaurus: All synonyms and antonyms for slavery. Spanish Central: Spanish translation of slavery. Nglish: Translation of slavery for Spanish speakers. Britannica English: Translation of slavery for Arabic speakers. Definition of SLAVERY for Kids. 1. : the state of being owned by another person: bondage. 2. : the custom or practice of owning slaves.
See also captivity. abolitionism. the movement for the abolition of slavery, especially Negro slavery in the U.S. — abolitionist, n. helotism. the condition or quality of being a helot; serfdom or slavery. Also helotage, helotry. indentureship. 1. the state or period of being indentured or apprenticed; apprenticeship. abolitionism. the movement for the abolition of slavery, especially Negro slavery in the U.S. — abolitionist, n. helotism. the condition or quality of being a helot; serfdom or slavery. Also helotage, helotr
In Mauritania, the last country to abolish slavery (in 1981), it is estimated that up to 600,000 men, women and children, or 20% of the population, are enslaved with many used as bonded labour. Slavery in Mauritania was criminalized in August 2007. Film has been the most influential medium in the presentation of the history of slavery to the general public around the world. The American film industry has had a complex relationship with slavery and until recent decades often avoided the topic.
slavery. n. 1. (Law) the state or condition of being a slave; a civil relationship whereby one person has absolute power over another and controls his life, liberty, and fortune. abolitionism. the movement for the abolition of slavery, especially Negro slavery in the U.S. — abolitionist, n. helotism. the condition or quality of being a helot; serfdom or slavery. Also helotage, helotry
Today, chattel slavery is unlawful in all countries, but a person may still be described as a slave if he or she is forced to work for another person without an ability on their part to unilaterally terminate the arrangement. Such situations are today commonly referred to as practices similar to slavery. Film has been the most influential medium in the presentation of the history of slavery to the general public around the world. The American film industry has had a complex relationship with slavery and until recent decades often avoided the topic.
Definition of SLAVER. 1. a: a ship used in the slave trade b: a person engaged in the slave trade. 2. : white slaver. 
noun. 1  the state or condition of being a slave; a civil relationship whereby one person has absolute power over another and controls his life, liberty, and fortune. 2  the subjection of a person to another person, esp in being forced into work. 