Until Section 3 of the Act was struck down in 2013 (United States v. Windsor), DOMA, in conjunction with other statutes, had barred same-sex married couples from being recognized as spouses for purposes of federal laws, effectively barring them from receiving federal marriage benefits. Georgia Representative Bob Barr, then a Republican, authored the Defense of Marriage Act and introduced it in the House of Representatives on May 7, 1996. Senator Don Nickles, (R) Oklahoma, introduced the bill in the Senate.
The second provision directs the federal government to follow a definition of the word marriage that means only a legal union between one man and one woman as husband and wife.. Likewise, the word spouse is defined as a person of the opposite sex who is a husband or a wife.. 
Definition: The Defense of Marriage Act, or DOMA, is legislation that was signed into law by President Clinton in 1996 and declared unconstitutional by the U.S. Supreme Court on June 26, 2013. The Supreme Court ruling means the federal government will recognize same-sex marriage. That's what Bill Clinton is doing with the Defense of Marriage Act, which defines marriage as between a man and a woman -- and which the high court will rule on this year in a landmark moment for the gay marriage movement.. Source: David Jackson.
Section 3 of the Federal Defense of Marriage Act 1996. Section 3, or the definition of marriage, of the law is the portion of the act that legally defines a marriage in terms of federal uses as the union explicitly of a woman and a man. However, this portion of the act was deemed unconstitutional in July 2010 by a federal district court judge. Recognition of Gay Marriage In Response of the Defense of Marriage Act. Since the enactment of Federal Defense of Marriage Act 1996, many states have allotted licenses for same-sex marriages.
Section 3 of the Federal Defense of Marriage Act 1996. Section 3, or the definition of marriage, of the law is the portion of the act that legally defines a marriage in terms of federal uses as the union explicitly of a woman and a man. However, this portion of the act was deemed unconstitutional in July 2010 by a federal district court judge. Having understood this clause of the Constitution it is perfectly legal for a State to decide that they wish to authorize and recognize same-sex marriage. What THE DEFENSE OF MARRIAGE ACT specifically pertains to is the right of States to REFUSE to recognize that marriage, even though it is legal in the marital State.
Defense Of Marriage Act (DOMA). So-called Defense of Marriage laws (DOMAs) define marriage as a relationship between one man and one woman, for the purpose of excluding same-sex couples from the institution of marriage. There are two types of DOMAs: federal and state. The federal Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA) was enacted so that the federal government could restrict marriage to a union between a man and a woman. In so doing, the federal government was able to deny same-sex married couples any of the federal benefits opposite-sex married couples received.
The Defense of Marriage Act, sometimes shortened to DOMA, is a federal law in the United States which was signed into the legislature by former President Bill Clinton on September 21, 1996. Having understood this clause of the Constitution it is perfectly legal for a State to decide that they wish to authorize and recognize same-sex marriage. What THE DEFENSE OF MARRIAGE ACT specifically pertains to is the right of States to REFUSE to recognize that marriage, even though it is legal in the marital State.
When the Federal Defense of Marriage Act 1996 was first passed, it was thought that Hawaii and potentially other states would be quick to legalize same-sex marriage, either by judicial interpretation or legislation of either the federal or state constitution. Recognition of Gay Marriage In Response of the Defense of Marriage Act. Since the enactment of Federal Defense of Marriage Act 1996, many states have allotted licenses for same-sex marriages.