Organizations summarize their goals and objectives in mission and vision statements. Both of these serve different purposes for a company but are often confused with each other. While a mission statement describes what a company wants to do now, a vision statement outlines what a company wants to be in the future. 
A vision statement is an organization's declaration of its mid-term and long-term goals. Vision statements are often confused with mission statements. 
Vision statement vs. mission statement. A vision statement should not be confused with a mission statement. Mission statements are present-based statements designed to convey a sense of why the company exists to both members of the company and the external community. It's important that the vision statement be compelling not just to the high-level execs of your company, but to all employees. Here are some tips to keep in mind: 1  When describing goals, project five to 10 years in the future.
A vision statement, or simply a vision, is a public declaration that schools or other educational organizations use to describe their high-level goals for the future—what they hope to achieve if they successfully fulfill their organizational purpose or mission. A mission statement, or simply a mission, is a public declaration that schools or other educational organizations use to describe their founding purpose and major organizational commitments—i.e., what they do and why they do it.
Definition. A vision statement is a description of where a company or individual wants to be in the future. It also explains what the person or business wants to do or get done. These types of statements are usually short, with many being just one sentence. A vision statement provides direction for the future. A vision statement can give someone professional goals to pursue. People may craft a vision statement as a way to determine the best way to pursue goals.
How to write a vision statement. Writing your vision statement is a time for creativity, ambition and fun, but the task should be approached seriously. There is a process to this, and it's not usually quick or simple, Brownson said. It's important that the vision statement be compelling not just to the high-level execs of your company, but to all employees. Here are some tips to keep in mind: 1  When describing goals, project five to 10 years in the future.
The term “vision statement” refers to an explanation, usually in written form, of what a person or business wants to be or get done at some later point in time. A vision statement provides direction for the future. A vision statement can give someone professional goals to pursue. People may craft a vision statement as a way to determine the best way to pursue goals.
A vision statement is a declaration of an organization 's objectives, ideally based on economic foresight, intended to guide its internal decision-making. 1  1 Definition and structure. A vision statement is not limited to business organizations and may also be used by non-profit or governmental entities. A consensus does not exist on the characteristics of a good or bad vision statement. Commonly cited traits include: 1  concise: able to be easily remembered and repeated.
A vision statement is a company's road map, indicating both what the company wants to become and guiding transformational initiatives by setting a defined direction for the company's growth. A vision statement is not limited to business organizations and may also be used by non-profit or governmental entities. A consensus does not exist on the characteristics of a good or bad vision statement. Commonly cited traits include: 1  concise: able to be easily remembered and repeated.
Definition. Vision Statement: (Desired End-State) A one-sentence statement describing the clear and inspirational long-term desired change resulting from an organization or program’s work. The following vision statements were selected from the top 100 nonprofits (based on a series of web, social, and financial metrics). 