Meaning & History. Variant of AMALIA, though it is sometimes confused with EMILIA, which has a different origin. The name became popular in England after the German House of Hanover came to the British throne in the 18th century-it was borne by daughters of George II and George III. 
Amelia /ame-lia/ [4 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced a-MEEL-yah. It is of Latin and Old German origin, and the meaning of Amelia is rival, eager work. Blend of two medieval names: the Latin Emilia (see Emily) and the Latin German Amalia, meaning work. An 18th-century Princess Amelia brought the name to Britain.
Origin of the name Amelia: An English variant of the Germanic Amalia, which is derived from amal (work). Alternatively, it may be a variant of Emilia (rival). From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. 
Amelia is a female given name. It is a variant of Amalia, derived from the Germanic word amal meaning 'work', 'industrious' and 'fertile'. The variant form Amelie is derived from the French equivalent, Amelie. amélie It is a variant of Amalia, derived from the Germanic word amal meaning 'work', 'industrious' and 'fertile'. The variant form Amelie is derived from the French equivalent, Amelie. Amélie diminutive forms Include, Amy, Emma milly And. mel
Etymologists believe that the name Amelia/Amalia is unrelated to the Latin gens name Aemilia, which was translated into English as Emily. Equivalents of Aemilia/Emily in romance languages do sound similar to Amelia (e.g. Italian Emilia) but have a different origin from this Germanic name. It is a variant of Amalia, derived from the Germanic word amal meaning 'work', 'industrious' and 'fertile'. The variant form Amelie is derived from the French equivalent, Amelie. Amélie diminutive forms Include, Amy, Emma milly And. mel
Amelia is a name with Latin origins. The meaning of the name Amelia is to strive, to excel, or to rival. Amelia originally comes from the name Aemilia. Common variations of the name include Emilia, Amilya, and Amilia. Amelie is the French version of the name Amelia. Common nicknames include Amy, Mia, Millie, Melie, and Ames.
German Meaning: The name Amalia is a German baby name. In German the meaning of the name Amalia is: From the Old German Amalburga, meaning labour and the Latin Aemilia. Italian Meaning: The name Amalia is an Italian baby name. The name Amalia is a Spanish baby name. In Spanish the meaning of the name Amalia is: Industrious. Swedish Meaning: The name Amalia is a Swedish baby name. In Swed
The name Amelia is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Amelia is: Industrious. Striving. Latin Meaning: The name Amelia is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Amelia is: Industrious. Striving. German Meaning: The name Amelia is a German baby name. In German the meaning of the name Amelia is: From the Old German Amalburga, meaning labour and the Latin Aemilia.
Amelia is a female given name. It is a variant of Amalia, derived from the Germanic word amal meaning 'work', 'industrious' and 'fertile'. The variant form Amelie is derived from the French equivalent, Amelie. Amélie diminutive forms Include, Amy, Emma milly And. mel
Amelia is the Latinized form of the ancient Old High German female name Amalia, from the Germanic element “amal” meaning “to work” (Old Norse “ama” “to trouble”). People often confuse Amelia with Aemilius, an Old Roman family name of Latin origin (meaning “rival”), but this is incorrect. 