DEFINITION of 'Property Lien'. A property lien is a legal claim on a tract of real estate granting the holder a specified amount of money upon the sale of the property. Such liens are often used to ensure the payment of a debt, with the property acting as collateral against the amount owed.
A lien is a notice attached to your property informing everyone that you owe the creditor money. Before you can sell your property and give clear title to the buyer, you must pay off the lien. Liens usually attach to real estate, but they can also attach to personal property in some situations.
A lien is a legal document acting as security for the debt by giving the creditor a stake in your home. When there is a lien on your home, what you can do with the property is limited. You may not be able to take out a second mortgage or home-equity loan with an unpaid lien.
A lien is a claim against property made by someone in order to secure payment of a debt. The lien makes the property collateral against monies or services owed to another person or entity. Collateral is an asset that has been pledged by the recipient of a loan as security on the value of the loan.
Lien. A right given to another by the owner of property to secure a debt, or one created by law in favor of certain creditors. A lien is an encumbrance on one person's property to secure a debt the property owner owes to another person. The statement that someone's property is tied up describes the effect of liens on both real and Personal Property.
A property lien is a legal claim on a tract of real estate granting the holder a specified amount of money upon the sale of the property. Such liens are often used to ensure the payment of a debt, with the property acting as collateral against the amount owed.
A lien is an encumbrance on one person's property to secure a debt the property owner owes to another person. The statement that someone's property is tied up describes the effect of liens on both real and Personal Property.
A lien is typically a public record. It is generally filed with a county records office (for real property) or with a state agency, such as the secretary of state (for cars, boats, office equipment, and the like). Liens on real estate are a common way for creditors to collect what they are owed.