An unusually short lifespan might indicate that your ancestors lived in harsh conditions. A short lifespan might also indicate health problems that were once prevalent in your family. The SSDI is a searchable database of more than 70 million names. You can find birthdates, death dates, addresses and more. You can see how Provencio families moved over time by selecting different Census years. Census records can tell you little-known facts about your ancestors such as birthplace, occupation and value of personal estate. Find out where people with the family name Provencio lived before coming to the United States.
Click on a circle in the chart to view Romulo birth and death records. An unusually short lifespan might indicate that your ancestors lived in harsh conditions. A short lifespan might also indicate health problems that were once prevalent in your family. The SSDI is a searchable database of more than 70 million names. You can find birthdates, death dates, addresses and more. You can see how Romulo families moved over time by selecting different Census years. Census records can tell you little-known facts about your ancestors such as birthplace, occupation and value of personal estate. Find out where people with the family name Romulo lived before coming to the United States. Using Ancestry, you can search through passenger arrival records, naturalization records, border crossings, emigration records, passport applications, and even convict transportation records
Romolo is a rare given name for males but a somewhat popular last name for both adults and children (#134037 out of 150436, Top 89%). (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the birth name popularity of Romolo for boys. Romolo has yet to be listed in the Top 1000 thus far. Romolo /ro-mo-lo/ [3 sylls.] as a name for boys is of Latin derivation, and the name Romolo means man of Rome. Romolo is a variant transcription of Romulus (Latin): along with his twin brother Remus. Compare surname Romulo. Kreatif forms: Ramolo, Romoro, Rumolo
Romolo enjoys the company of others, has a profound sense of friendship and can be pretty persuasive when he wants to be. He values his freedom above all and enjoys games and tasting the pleasures that this world has to offer. He is a man of conquest who doesn´t count his troubles or his efforts... Romolo is an uncompromising, courageous, energetic and masculine man, who likes to think that he is pretty tough.
Variants of the name [edit]. There are many variants of the surname such as: Betencourt, Bettencourtt, Bettencour, Betancourt, Bethancourt, Bethencourt, Bitencourt, Bittencourt, Betancur, Betancurt, Betancurth, Betancor, Bethcourt, Betancourt, Bitancurt, Betanco, and Betencur. This page or section lists people with the surname Bettencourt (surname) . If an internal link intending to refer to a specific person led you to this page, you may wish to change that link by adding the person's given name (s) to the link.
Bettencourt is a surname from place-names in Northern France. Otherwise the name can be found in French, Portuguese and Spanish-speaking areas in localized variants (see below). This page or section lists people with the surname Bettencourt (surname) . If an internal link intending to refer to a specific person led you to this page, you may wish to change that link by adding the person's given name (s) to the link.
namecandy-Celebrity baby names, ask the Name Lady, & more. 