Boilers last up to 15 years. If yours is reaching that age, then think about saving for a new one. Annual services will ensure the best lifespan, but the older they get, the harder they have to work to heat your home. The boiler is clearly the largest investment and the next highest cost is the installation itself. A two-man, day-long job installation will cost at least £500. Other necessities may include a system flush (around £300), magnetic filtering (around £100) or a condensate drain pipe or pump (between £100 and £250).
“About 6 months ago I purchased a property with a Worcester combi boiler installed. When the tenant/s were using the shower, the boiler would stop producing hot water. My regular boiler engineer recommended a possible new heat exchanger and a power flush, but was recommended to try the power flush first. Old boiler lasted 30 years before it rusted away. The Ravenheat is saving about 25% on my Gas bills so will just about pay for itself and fitting after 8 years. Might try a better brand if it dies but they cost twice as much so I'd expect 16 years at least!
The average lifespan for a boiler or furnace can hinge on a number of factors, including the quality and type of the unit, and the consistency of maintenance performed on it. For example, a well-maintained traditional gas boiler or furnace has an average expectancy of 15 years. Electrical units have an average expectancy of 10 years. With a superior quality furnace or boiler that is professionally serviced, the life expectancy rises to 20 years. If it’s time to have your furnace or boiler serviced, give us a call at Tempco Heating & Air Conditioning. We’ve proudly served Crystal Lake and nearby communities for more than 20 years. Be sure to check out our Internet specials before you call, too!
A1. There is no set timeframe as to how long a boiler will last. Many factors have a bearing from the original sizing of the boiler for the load, usage patterns, maintenance and service regimes, robustness of design, availability of spare parts, etc.
10 years is not old for a boiler. Ask the serviceman what shape your boiler is in. It comes down to if you want to take a chance and have a few more years out of the boiler and change it and not have to worry about it. If you change it get one witha very good warranty. With maintainance a boiler should last 15 years. A combo boiler is used more than any other boiler because of constant demand. A heat exchanger replacement you have to consider age and shape of unit
In reality, if your boiler was installed in the late 1990s or early 2000s, you’re more likely to save half of that. With the average price of a new boiler installation being approximately £2,300, and energy providers quoting closer to £3,000, the fuel savings are likely to be small in the short term. The boiler is clearly the largest investment and the next highest cost is the installation itself. A two-man, day-long job installation will cost at least £500. Other necessities may include a system flush (around £300), magnetic filtering (around £100) or a condensate drain pipe or pump (between £100 and £250).
My cheapo Ravenheat combi is up to 8 years. New fan fitted by myself and a very minor leak in the heat exchanger (which fixed itself after a year). Old boiler lasted 30 years before it rusted away. The Ravenheat is saving about 25% on my Gas bills so will just about pay for itself and fitting after 8 years. Might try a better brand if it dies but they cost twice as much so I'd expect 16 years at least!
The heat is on: If your boiler is more than 20 years old you could save money by replacing it with a condensing boiler. A modern condensing boiler will have an efficiency of around 90 per cent, whereas a non-condensing boiler – even a new one – will only offer about 75 per cent. In a typical semi-detached house, this difference could mean a saving of around £150 per year.