Today’s walkers are safer, but they are still hazardous – and of no benefit to the baby. Canada banned baby walkers in 2004. Possession of a baby walker can lead to fines up to $100,000 or six months in jail. But in some countries, more than 75 percent of babies still use walkers – and the injuries continue. Sometime in the second half of the first year, healthy babies develop a strong urge to move across the floor.
3. The child should be closely supervised in the walker. In Canada we couldn't find walkers and had to find it in the US. My baby is 6 months old and is just discovering it. --now to the original question... My son just turned 5 months and I put him in both a bouncer: fisher price jumperoo (when he was 4 1/2 and a walker). He loves the bouncer, and he just learned how to move in the walker 3 days ago.
A baby in a baby walker, 1905. Jesus in a baby walker, The Hours of Catherine of Cleves, c. 1440. A baby walker is a device that can be used by infants who cannot walk on their own to move from one place to another. Modern baby walkers have a base made of hard plastic sitting on top of wheels and a suspended fabric seat with two leg holes. A baby walker often has toys attached to the top to entertain the baby.
My advice is, if you feel comfortable with putting your baby in a walker then go ahead. There is no right or wrong answers to your question. My oldest loved it in his walker from about 6 months old and my youngest sat in hers from about 4 months. 
David Geller. pediatrician. No. In fact, studies have shown that babies who use a walker may actually learn to walk about a month later than those who don't. Walkers allow babies to move around before they are physically ready for it, which can cause unusual movement patterns and delayed muscle control. Babies learn to walk in part by watching and understanding how their feet and legs move.
Walker Age Ranges. A baby is generally ready to begin using a walker at about 8 months old, or when she is able to stay in a sitting-up position. Parents may continue using these devices until babies are walking well, about the time they reach 14 to 15 months old, according to BabyCenter. 
PARENTS and babies seem to love infant walkers, parents for the baby-tending and entertainment value of these wheeled seats and babies for being able to scoot around the house in them long before they can walk and even before they can crawl. 
Safety. In baby walkers, babies can move around quickly before they are old enough to control what they are doing, so they can run into all sorts of dangers. 1  Babies can move across a room in seconds, and quickly be in danger. Babies can sit in the seat and move around before they are able to sit alone or crawl. Baby walkers are not safe for babies and it is strongly advised that you do not use baby walkers. Child safety experts recommend a stationary play centre as a safer option.
Baby walkers. A baby walker consists of a rigid frame on wheels with a sling seat. Babies can sit in the seat and move around before they are able to sit alone or crawl. Baby walkers are not safe for babies and it is strongly advised that you do not use baby walkers. Child safety experts recommend a stationary play centre as a safer option.
In reality, extra care is needed when your baby is in a walker. Even with supervision, accidents in baby walkers can easily occur. A baby in a baby walker can travel one metre per second, so an accident can happen before you are able to stop it. Your baby would be safer left on the floor in a hazard-free room. (See our tips on baby-proofing your house). Walkers won't help your baby learn to walk