New students will have the opportunity to select one of many Welcome-Week programs. Please note that the Freshman Service Experience and Discover D.C. are our two largest programs, with close to a thousand participants between both programs. 1  Freshman Service Experience. Welcome Week is a long standing AU tradition at American University. For students who participate in Eagle Summit it’s a “welcome back” to campus and to Washington, DC as we begin the academic year.
Welcome Week will begin on Saturday, August 22, the first day students can move into their residence halls, and will come to a close on Friday, August 28, with the All-American BBQ. During this week before classes begin, most first-year students participate in one of AU’s hallmark welcome programs. Welcome Week is a long standing AU tradition at American University. For students who participate in Eagle Summit it’s a “welcome back” to campus and to Washington, DC as we begin the academic year.
Welcome Week is the second step (after New Student Orientation) in your transition to the University of Minnesota. Welcome Week is only for first-year, first-time, freshmen attending the U. If you do not have a University Dining Services contract, you will have the opportunity to pre-register for meals offered on Wednesday, September 2-Sunday, September 6 when you complete the Welcome Week Event Selection. You can also use this online tool to indicate dietary needs.
Flexdine will be available for students who have meal plans prior to Welcome Week meals starting. If you do not have a University Dining Services contract, you will have the opportunity to pre-register for meals offered on Wednesday, September 2-Sunday, September 6 when you complete the Welcome Week Event Selection. You can also use this online tool to indicate dietary needs.
Really depends on the degree and your subject choices. I do a bachelor of software engineering and for the first 3 years I was at uni 4-5 days a week with between 20-35 contact hours a week.
Registration. Registration will be available for Welcome Week 2015 on June 8. Log on to the myAU.american.edu portal with your user ID and password, and click on the links as follows: Life@AU, then New Students, then New First-Year Student Checklist, then Register for a Welcome Week Program. Welcome Week is a long standing AU tradition at American University. For students who participate in Eagle Summit it’s a “welcome back” to campus and to Washington, DC as we begin the academic year.
Now the fun starts! Welcome Week is where you will get a feel for what Reading is all about. There will be a mix of events to challenge and entertain you. There's lots to do, so make sure you keep track of what's happening and when. Your personalised timetable will be available in August, so remember to check back then.
Im not in uni yet, but I would say it depends on the university/city you will be staying at and how often you will be going out, whether youre self-catered... Ive seen people saying they were able to survive spending 40-60 a week. Formerly Helpful_C. 1  1 badge. 
Go because you want to meet other students. Or go because you want to feel a part of something bigger than yourself. Go because college can be scary and this whole program is about helping you be successful at State. Go because you want to learn about what resources and opportunities MSU has to offer. If you are going to live in a University Residence Hall the Fall Welcome Handbook will be given to you when you move into your new room. If you will be commuting you will be able to pick up your Fall Welcome Handbook at the Commuter Student Session on Tuesday, August 26 at 2pm in B115 Wells Hall.