1 Place a tablespoon of unsalted butter on each of the steaks and place the skillet directly in the oven. 2  Turn the heat down to 125 degrees Fahrenheit (51.6 degrees Celsius). 3  Cook the steaks in the oven for eight to 12 minutes. 4  Cut into one of the steaks to see if it's cooked to your taste. With a few simple ingredients and 20 minutes, you can pull a succulent steak from the oven. Read the steps listed below and learn about how to cook steak in the oven. Ingredients: 1  Four 2-inch (5-centimeter) thick filet mignons. 2  2 tablespoons vegetable oil. 3  2 tablespoons salt. 4  2 tablespoons coarsely ground black pepper.
1 Preheat the oven to 275 degrees. 2  Season the steaks with sea salt and fresh-cracked black pepper. 3  Place steak on a rack placed over a rimmed baking sheet and put in the preheated oven. 4  Cook the steaks in the oven for 40 to 45 minutes. Steakhouse Steak. Now that you are no longer asking how long does it take to cook steak in the oven, you might want to give this oven-roasted steak recipe a try. It works best for very thick, tender cuts of steaks like baseball cut rib-eyes or thick-cut tenderloins. Choose a steak with a minimum one-inch thickness.
1 Cook the steaks in the oven for eight to 12 minutes. 2  Cut into one of the steaks to see if it's cooked to your taste. 3  Remove the steaks from the oven and allow them to rest for 10 to 15 minutes to allow the juices to redistribute throughout the steak [source: Garten ]. With a few simple ingredients and 20 minutes, you can pull a succulent steak from the oven. Read the steps listed below and learn about how to cook steak in the oven. Ingredients: 1  Four 2-inch (5-centimeter) thick filet mignons. 2  2 tablespoons vegetable oil. 3  2 tablespoons salt. 4  2 tablespoons coarsely ground black pepper.
Lightly sear the edges using tongs to rotate the meat. Transfer steak to a baking sheet and place in oven. Cook for 8 minutes, then flip and cook for another 8 minutes for medium rare (internal temperature 115 to 125 degrees). Remove pan from oven. Let meat rest for at least 15 minutes before slathering with roasted-garlic puree. Return pan to oven to heat steak, about 3 minutes. Carve away from the bone into thick slices.
Place a 10-to-12-inch cast-iron skillet in the oven and heat the oven to 500 degrees F. Bring the steak to room temperature. When the oven reaches temperature, remove the skillet and place on the range over high heat for 5 minutes. Coat the steak lightly with oil and sprinkle both sides with a generous pinch of salt. 
1 Cook the steaks in the oven for 40 to 45 minutes. 2  The steak will still look fairly uncooked when you remove it from the oven. 3  A thermometer inserted into the thickest part of the steak will reveal a cooking temperature five to ten degrees lower than the desired doneness. Steakhouse Steak. Now that you are no longer asking how long does it take to cook steak in the oven, you might want to give this oven-roasted steak recipe a try. It works best for very thick, tender cuts of steaks like baseball cut rib-eyes or thick-cut tenderloins. Choose a steak with a minimum one-inch thickness.
If you don't have access to a grill though: Heat olive oil in a pan until nearly smoking. Sear the steak on both sides until very brown. Transfer to an oven proof pan, add your mushrooms, place a pat of butter on top of the meat and bake at 425 for about 10 minutes to finish. This would be for a steak at least an inch thick. If it's less than that, then searing in the pan is really all you'll need to do
The steak thickness, how long you seared and the true temperature of the oven. Cook to the final temperature you want. Remember that you may get a few more degrees after removal from the oven. It took 7 minutes to get to 150 (medium). 1 The steak thickness, how long you seared and the true temperaure of the oven. 2  COOK TO THE TEMPERATURE, NOT BY TIME ALONG.. 3  Remember that you may get a few more degrees after removal from the oven. 4  It took 7 minutes to get to 150(medium). 5  Remove from the oven and allow to rest for a few minutes before serving.
To roast a steak: 1  Preheat the oven to 300 degrees. 2  Season the steak. 3  Sear steak in a hot skillet for just a minute on each side. 4  Transfer steak to a wire rack on a rimmed baking sheet and place in the preheated oven. 5  Roast for 20 to 25 minutes, until desired doneness is achieved. Steakhouse Steak. Now that you are no longer asking how long does it take to cook steak in the oven, you might want to give this oven-roasted steak recipe a try. It works best for very thick, tender cuts of steaks like baseball cut rib-eyes or thick-cut tenderloins. Choose a steak with a minimum one-inch thickness.