The cost of laser mole removal varies depending on the doctor, the geographic area you live in, and the size and number of growths you want removed. In general, you can expect to pay about $50 to $80 per treatment. 
Moles can be unsightly, and some can even lead to cancer, so many dermatologists recommend removing them. As with any medical procedure, removing a mole will cost money. The price of mole removal can range from about $100 to $600 per mole. The cheapest reported price we found for removing a mole was $50, but the average price will depend on a variety of factors. The less expensive treatment options will cost anywhere from about $50 to $200, while freezing and laser mole removal can cost upwards of $600 or more. Most insurance companies will not cover mole removal for purely cosmetic reasons. Patients may be required to pay for the full mole removal procedure.
There is NO Medicare rebate for this procedure. Average cost of Laser Mole removal is $250 for individual moles or $500 for several moles. There is a small additional cost if the mole is larger or if there are more than the usual numbers.
This can only be determined with accuracy after you have been evaluated. The cost depends on the complexity of the procedure and the number of lesions or moles treated. The consultation fee is 50 dollars. The “average” mole fee is about 75 dollars per mole, and a single lesion can range from $400 to $1200 for treatment. Costs are reduced when there are multiple moles or lesions. I have been told that I charge a heck of a lot less than other doctors (dermatologists and family practice doctors). 
1 So, if mole removal creams are permitted to you, be ready to pay around $50. 2  The amount of cream in a tube will be enough for removal of 3-5 moles. 3  If a doctor recommends surgery, be ready to pay $120-250 for the operation and $55-110 for a consultation. 
1 Most animal removal companies use traps to kill and remove moles or gophers, although some combine trapping with fumigation; total costs for professional removal can cost $50 - $500 or more, depending on local rates, the number of gophers, the size of the property and the difficultly of the terrain. 2  For example, 1 Gopher traps cost $5-$25, and mole traps can be $10-$60, depending on size, type and materials. 2  Generally two traps are set at a time, back-to-back in the tunnel. 3  Trapline Products provides how-to videos demonstrating basic mole trapping and gopher trapping techniques.
1 Removal of a mole typically costs about $150 to $400. 2  It varies from doctor to doctor and by which technique is used. 1 In the first, the surgeon uses a scalpel to shave the mole off at the level of the skin, then cauterizes the wound or applies a liquid to prevent bleeding. 2  In the second, the surgeon cuts out the mole and some of the skin around it, then closes the wound with stitches.
The price of a mole-removal procedure is usually based on the size, shape and location of the mole and the complexity of the procedure. For example, having a large mole removed from your cheek will typically cost more than having a small one taken off your arm. First of all, the size of the moles is different -- it takes more time to remove a larger mole and therefore it costs more. Secondly, the skin on your cheek is more cosmetically sensitive than the skin on your arm and may require a more complex procedure [source: Hacker ].
Of course, getting a mole removed is a little more complicated than the first two options -- and it's more expensive. There isn't a set cost for mole removal because all moles are different and prices vary by doctor, but plan to spend between $100 and $500 [source: Hacker ]. First of all, the size of the moles is different -- it takes more time to remove a larger mole and therefore it costs more. Secondly, the skin on your cheek is more cosmetically sensitive than the skin on your arm and may require a more complex procedure