Prednisone is a synthetic corticosteroid drug that is used to treat a variety of conditions including: asthma, adrenal insufficiency, Cron’s disease, inflammatory diseases, some types of cancer, hives, nephrotic syndrome, lupus, Meniere’s disease, and hives. In most cases, the withdrawal symptoms should clear up within 3 to 4 weeks after your last dose. The half life of Prednisone is only 1 hour, but most people report post-acute withdrawal symptoms lasting well after the drug is cleared from the body.
One of the most common symptoms of prednisone withdrawal is a feeling of weakness or severe fatigue. This is because the immune system is weakened. It may also result in body aches and a low grade fever as though a cold were coming on. Joint pain is also common. Also on the list of prednisone withdrawal side effects is depression. This is because withdrawal from the drug causes hormonal changes in the body. Also because of the hormone changes, a woman who comes off of prednisone too quickly may experience side effects concerning her menstrual cycl
Following are some of the common symptoms which are the result of prednisone withdrawal. These symptoms may be less in some people but can be extreme in some cases. Reduce the dosage of prednisone slowly, and gradually discontinue it. Do not miss any dose or stop taking the drug on your own. If you observe any of the withdrawal symptoms contact your doctor immediately to minimize risk of these symptoms escalating into full-blown secondary diseases or conditions. Prednisone is a well-known steroid known as 'corticosteroid' in medical terms, which is prescribed for various diseases. Sudden stoppage of this steroid can lead to prednisone withdrawal symptoms.
Steroid withdrawal symptoms can mimic many other medical problems. Weakness, fatigue, decreased appetite, weight loss, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea (which can lead to fluid and electrolyte abnormalities), and abdominal pain are common. 
In most cases, your healthcare provider will recommend that you stop taking prednisone slowly to avoid severe withdrawal symptoms. This is called a prednisone taper. In general, the longer you have been taking the drug and the higher your prednisone dosage, the longer it takes to taper off prednisone. Be sure to talk with your healthcare provider before stopping this medication. Prednisone withdrawal symptoms can include but are not limited to: 1  A general ill feeling. 2  Muscle weakness. 3  Nausea and vomiting. 4  A fever. 5  Low blood pressure (hypotension). 6  Dehydration. 7  Mental changes. 8  Muscle pain or joint pain.
1 Weakness: Weakness and fatigue is the most common prednisone withdrawal symptom. 2  One may feel extremely weak if prednisone is abruptly stopped. 3  Abdominal Pain: Frequent abdominal pain or a burning sensation is one of the withdrawal symptoms. 4  Weight Loss: There is a rapid weight loss which may lead to extreme fatigue. Prednisone is a well-known steroid known as 'corticosteroid' in medical terms, which is prescribed for various diseases. Sudden stoppage of this steroid can lead to prednisone withdrawal symptoms.
Prednisone Withdrawal Symptoms. Prednisone is a steroidal drug that is used to combat many common ailments that are of a serious nature. Along with this medication, you will receive specific instructions on how to take it. This is because the immune system is weakened. It may also result in body aches and a low grade fever as though a cold were coming on. Joint pain is also common. Also on the list of prednisone withdrawal side effects is depression. This is because withdrawal from the drug causes hormonal changes in the body.
If you abruptly stop taking prednisone or taper off too quickly, you might experience prednisone withdrawal symptoms: 1  Severe fatigue. 2  Weakness. 3  Body aches. 4  Joint pain. The amount of time it takes to taper off prednisone depends on the disease being treated, the dose and duration of use, and other medical considerations. A full recovery can take anywhere from a week to several months. Contact your doctor if you experience prednisone withdrawal symptoms as you are tapering off the drug