Sunflowers. Sunflowers, one of the most inspiring flowers in the garden, grow as rapidly as Jack's beanstalk from a tiny seed into a tall stalk. Little is more pleasant on a summer's afternoon than watching the large, bright flower heads turn with the sun's passage. The easy-to-grow plants will do well in most climates. Sun is the most essential ingredient, but taller sunflower varieties, like Sunzilla, which grows up to 16 feet, also need wind protection. You don't need to use fertilizer for most garden soils. Even if your soil is very poor, you won't need more than 5 pounds of 5-10-5 complete fertilizer for 100 square feet.
Sunflowers are perfect for Florida. You'll plant seeds in the summer for fall bloom. You need to look at the seed packet and just back out the number of days to maturity as it depends on the cultivar (type of sunflower) that you choose. Autumn Beauty takes 95 to 100 days. Harvesting Sunflower Seeds. 1  To harvest seeds, keep an eye out for ripeness. 2  Cut the head off the plant (about 4 inches below the flower head) and remove the seeds with your fingers or a fork. 3  To protect the seeds from birds, you can cover the flowers with a light fabric such as cheesecloth and a rubber band.
Well, For most larger dogs, it can take up to two years.   Smaller dogs grow their bodies faster.   Another answer:   Many dogs, even large breeds, will reach their … full size by the age of 8-10 months, but their metabolism won't be that of a fully grown adult dog until 18 months to two years.
Sunflowers will face east at maturity so this may also be a factor you want to consider in their placement. • Days to Maturity – Most sunflower varieties have a maturity between 75 and 110 days. The nice thing is that you can grow them from the last freeze until winter sets in again. 
Dig one-inch deep holes, spaced six to 18 inches (45.7 cm) apart, depending on the varietal size. You can simply use your hands to dig these small holes. If planting in rows, make sure to allow about 30 inches (76.2 cm) of soil between each row. Sunflowers need a lot of space to grow healthily. 1  For large sunflower types, allow 18 inches (45.7 cm) of space between seeds. 2  For medium-sized sunflower types, allow 12 inches (30.5 cm) of space between seed
Depends on how deep you planted the seed for how long it takes for it to germinate and then reach the top of the soil level for you to see it. Be patient it should peek out above ground in a few weeks. Keep it well drained and the soil wet. Don't water it too much. My sunflowers seemed to take a long time to come up but after about a month of growing they are about 12 tall. They are very cool plants. Mine are the giant type and should grow about 12 feet tall.
Characteristics. It takes about 11 days for an annual sunflower seed to germinate and appear through the soil, and roughly 90 days to reach maturity. Sunflowers attain their maximum height in about 50 days, followed by head development and seed production. Sunflowers are fast growers capable of reaching their maximum height in one season. All varieties of annual sunflowers (Helianthus annuum spp.) do their growing during one year. Depending upon variety, this can mean a plant that grows to just 2 feet or one that grows to 12 feet.
Sunflowers can grow anywhere from two to fifteen feet tall depending on the variety, and their seeds can even be harvested and enjoyed as a delicious snack. If planting in rows, make sure to allow about 30 inches (76.2 cm) of soil between each row. Sunflowers need a lot of space to grow healthily. 1  For large sunflower types, allow 18 inches (45.7 cm) of space between seeds.
Best Answer: Takes approx 14 - 21 days for sunflower seeds to germinate, depending on the type of S. flower, and weather & water conditions. My sunflower package says Sow in open well exposed soil. Keep it well drained and the soil wet. Don't water it too much. My sunflowers seemed to take a long time to come up but after about a month of growing they are about 12 tall. They are very cool plants. Mine are the giant type and should grow about 12 feet tall.