A.: Amazon Prime is a paid service (Free 30-day trial, $99 per year) that gives Amazon shoppers a few distinct advantages. Members of Amazon Prime are eligible for: 1  Free two-day shipping on any eligible item without a minimum-order balance, and free same-day delivery (in 14 metro areas) on eligible orders more than $35. With its plethora of services — including video, e-books and the ability to buy almost anything — Amazon has created an annual membership program that offers free or discounted services across the board. Read on to find out whether Amazon Prime is worth it for you.
Amazon's Prime premium service just got a little more expensive. For the first time, the online retailing giant will raise the membership fee for Prime, hiking it by $20 to $99 a year. Amazon Student Prime will rise $10 to $49 a year. Prime members will pay the higher fee when their accounts come up for renewal.
Posted: 03/13/2014 9:14 am EDT Updated: 03/13/2014 3:59 pm EDT. On Thursday, Amazon announced that the annual price of Amazon Prime, a service which gives members free two-day shipping on millions of eligible items, will increase from $79 to $99. The discounted fee of students will be going from $39 to $49. 
From VentureBeat. If Amazon’s $79/year Prime membership didn’t appeal to you this time last year, chances are 2014’s developments have put a slightly different spin on the service. Even though it now costs $20 more. Launched in 2005, Amazon’s annual subscription was traditionally all about the free two-day shipping
Help & Customer Service. Amazon Prime offers multiple shipping benefits, including FREE Two-Day Shipping for eligible purchases. Members also get access to Amazon Instant Video and the ability to borrow books from the Kindle Owners' Lending Library
Amazon (AMZN) announced the annual membership will now cost $99 a year, up from $79. A student membership will cost $49 annually. In February, Amazon said it was considering raising the price to $119 a year. Prime members get two-day shipping on a large number of Amazon items at no extra cost, plus the ability to borrow Kindle books and stream movies and television shows. The company said blamed the increase on increase fuel and shipping costs.
Amazon Prime pricing is increasing 25 percent, but there are still ways to avoid paying $99 a year for free shipping. Amazon announced Thursday that it will raise the price of its Prime service from $79 to $99 per year. Amazon competitor ShopRunner jumped right in to the action following Amazon's announcement by offering existing Amazon Prime members a complimentary one-year membership of unlimited two-day shipping for switching. Normally, ShopRunner members will pay a $79 annual membership fee and $8.95 per month for the service.
About the Amazon Prime Membership Charge. At the end of the Amazon Prime free trial or annual membership period, your card will be charged CDN $79 automatically for the next membership period. The $79 annual charge for Amazon Prime includes FREE Two-Day Shipping. If you didn't intend to convert your membership to a full 12-month membership, you can cancel your Amazon Prime membership on the Manage Prime Membership page. Shipping & Delivery › Amazon Prime ›. At the end of the Amazon Prime free trial or annual membership period, your card will be charged CDN $79 automatically for the next membership period.