Post decision dissonance is defined as a feeling of uncertainty or anxiety on whether a decision that was made was correct. This is common especially in most scenarios where d … ifficult decisions have to be made. Though I could be completely wrong … . If I am not mistaken, my cognitive dissonance, and as George Orwell refers as Doublethink allows me to challenge my ideologies to find what is closer to the truth, instead of sticking with one thing I tend to see things from a wider perspective.
In the same year appeared Evanson's work entitled The Dissonance of the four generally received Evangelists, to which replies were published by Priestley and David Simpson (1793). But his plays-with the exception of The Witch of Edmonton, in which he doubtless had a prominent share-too often disturb the mind like a bad drel n which ends as an unsolved dissonance; and this defect is a sup.
noun. Dissonance is defined as tension or disharmony. 1  An example of dissonance is when two musical notes are not in harmony. 2  An example of dissonance is when you put people together with strongly opposing political views. dissonance. noun. 1  A harsh, disagreeable combination of sounds; discord. 2  Lack of agreement, consistency, or harmony; conflict: “In Vietnam, reality fell away and dissonance between claim and fact filled the void” (Michael Janeway).
The frequency of beats giving maximum dissonance rises as we rise higher in the musical scale, and falls as we descend. This beat theory of dissonance was first put forward by Joseph Sauveur (1653-1716) in 1700. If the pitch is raised still further the dissonance lessens, and when there are about 130 beats per second the interval is consonant. If all tones were pure, dissonance at this part of the scale would not occur if the interval were more than a third. But his plays-with the exception of The Witch of Edmonton, in which he doubtless had a prominent share-too often disturb the mind like a bad drel n which ends as an unsolved dissonance; and this defect is a sup.
this is entirely arbitrary as a piece can have dozens of dissonant chords, but progress and resolve in such a way for it to sound stable. or vice versa, a piece may have many consonant chords but not resolve, or end on a dissonant chord to give an overall dissonant impression. 7 people found this useful. 1 Psychology at Work: a Case for Cognitive Dissonance In modern society, where there are many competing philosophies and ideas, it is common for people to experience anxiety, confusion, guilt, and other distressful emotions.
C E G are all consonant notes in a C Chord (but they are all dissonant in an F# chord) The second is in relation to a chord itself. if a chord has one or more dissonant notes it sounds tense/unstable and can be called a dissonant chord, where a consonant chord sounds stable. 1 Psychology at Work: a Case for Cognitive Dissonance In modern society, where there are many competing philosophies and ideas, it is common for people to experience anxiety, confusion, guilt, and other distressful emotions.
Thus bc' and b'bc have each 66 beats per second, yet the former is more dissonant than the latter. But the interval is still dissonant, and this is to be explained by the fact that the two tones unite to give a third tone of the frequency of the beats, easily heard when the two primary tones are loud. 
dissonant. adjective. 1  Harsh and inharmonious in sound; discordant. 2  Being at variance; disagreeing. 3  Music Constituting or producing a dissonance. The sound that occurs when you play two cords on the piano that don't sound good together is an example of something that would be described as dissonant.
adjective. The definition of dissonant is things that don't go well together or things that are not harmonious. The sound that occurs when you play two cords on the piano that don't sound good together is an example of something that would be described as dissonant.