Broccolini (original Japanese: ブロッコリーニ) is a green vegetable similar to broccoli but with smaller florets and longer, thin stalks. Often misidentified as young broccoli, it is a hybrid of broccoli and kai-lan, both cultivar groups of Brassica oleracea. 
One cup of broccoflower florets provides 20 calories, nearly two grams of protein, four grams of carbohydrates, two grams of fiber and is an excellent source of vitamin C. Green cauliflower is higher in protein, at 2.95%, than either white cauliflower, 1.92%, or broccoli, 2.82%. There are two forms of Brassica oleracea that may be referred to as broccoflower, both of which are considered cultivars of cauliflower (Brassica oleracea var. botrytis) because they have inflorescence meristems rather than flower buds when harvested.
The first form of broccoflower has the physical attributes of a white cauliflower, but the curd color is lime-green. There are several cultivars of green cauliflower on the market, with the first release being 'Green Ball' with parentage of both broccoli and cauliflower. There are two forms of Brassica oleracea that may be referred to as broccoflower, both of which are considered cultivars of cauliflower (Brassica oleracea var. botrytis) because they have inflorescence meristems rather than flower buds when harvested.
Description. Cauliflower is among the cruciferous vegetables, together with broccoli, kale, cabbage and collards. The average diameter of its compact head known as curd is six inches. Another vegetable related to cauliflower is broccoflower (a cross between broccoli and cauliflower). A raw cauliflower has a firm but spongy texture and a slightly bitter flavor with a sulfurous hint. Its color is white in most varieties but there are others that are green and purple.
Broccoli seems to be one of those vegetables you either love or hate. Broccoli-haters usually cite a strong flavor and aroma as the cause, but there are ways to tame this giant green flower. Learn about broccoli, and get some cooking tips before delving into the broccoli recipes. 
The entire plant (floret, stalk and leaves) is edible. Green cauliflower's flavor is sweet, mild and nutty, differentiating itself from a bolder, sometimes bitter White cauliflower. As it is a hybrid, its texture is tender, yet firm, like broccoli and less crumbly than cauliflower. Green cauliflower can be used in both raw and cooked preparations
The edible portion is the immature flower head (inflorescence) of the plant. There are two forms of Brassica oleracea that may be referred to as broccoflower, both of which are considered cultivars of cauliflower (Brassica oleracea var. botrytis) because they have inflorescence meristems rather than flower buds when harvested.
Slide (field_slide) - data: Broccoflower is a blend between broccoli and cauliflower, with a sweeter flavor than both. Slide (field_slide) - data: Orange varieties have extra beta-carotene, the same compound that gives carrots their signature orange color. Beyond the obvious differences in color and taste, they also have very different growing habits. Broccoli grows upwards and outwards, forming bunches of tiny green florets. Cauliflower, on the other hand, is a dense, compact head formed from the undeveloped flower buds of a cabbage plant.
• Cauliflower Season. Cauliflower may be grown, harvested, and sold year-round, but it is by nature a cool weather crop. Sunshine and heat bring out bitter flavors in the undeveloped flower buds that make up the tightly packed florets in a head of cauliflower, whereas chill and frost bring out its sweeter side. 
Green varieties, also known as “broccoflower”, have a lime green head that retains the texture and density of a classic cauliflower head, but with the chlorophyll of broccoli. This blend between broccoli and cauliflower is more cauliflower than broccoli, with a sweeter flavor than both. Beyond the obvious differences in color and taste, they also have very different growing habits. Broccoli grows upwards and outwards, forming bunches of tiny green florets. Cauliflower, on the other hand, is a dense, compact head formed from the undeveloped flower buds of a cabbage plant.