Sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim are both antibiotics that treat different types of infection caused by bacteria. Sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim is used a combination antibiotic used to treat ear infections, urinary tract infections, bronchitis, traveler's diarrhea, shigellosis, and Pneumocystis jiroveci pneumonia. Sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide. You should not use this medication if you are allergic to sulfamethoxazole or trimethoprim, or if you have: 1  severe liver or kidney disease; 2  anemia (low red blood cells) caused by folic acid deficiency; or.
(Click Bactrim Uses for more information on what this medication is used for, including possible off-label uses.). Brand-name Bactrim DS is manufactured by Mutual Pharmaceutical Company, Inc. and is marketed and distributed by AR Scientific. 
What BACTRIM is used for. BACTRIM contains the active ingredients sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim, also known as co-trimoxazole. BACTRIM is used to treat infections in different parts of the body, caused by bacteria. BACTRIM belongs to a group of medicines called antibiotics. There are many different types of medicines used to treat bacterial infections. Sulfamethoxazole in BACTRIM belongs to a group of medicines known as sulfonamides. Trimethoprim belongs to a group of medicines known as the benzylpyrimidines. BACTRIM works by stopping the growth of the bacteria causing the infection.
13 Reviews. Bactrim is the brand name of the generic antibiotic sulfamethoxazole trimethoprim (sometimes called co-trimoxazole). The drug is a combination of two antibiotics: It's one part trimethoprim (a synthetic drug), and five parts sulfamethoxazole (a sulfonamide drug). Bactrim works against bacteria in the following types of infections: 1  Urinary tract infections (UTIs) caused by E. coli, Klebsiella, Enterobacter, Morganella morganii, Proteus mirabilis, and Proteus vulgaris.
What BACTRIM is used for. BACTRIM contains the active ingredients sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim, also known as co-trimoxazole. BACTRIM is used to treat infections in different parts of the body, caused by bacteria. BACTRIM belongs to a group of medicines called antibiotics. BACTRIM works by stopping the growth of the bacteria causing the infection. BACTRIM will not work against infections caused by viruses, such as colds and flu. BACTRIM has been prescribed for your current
Bactrim (sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim) DS is a combination of two antibiotics, sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim. Bactrim is available as a generic drug under assorted names (for example, sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim, co-trimoxazole). Patients allergic to sulfa compounds should not take Bactrim. Bactrim is available in tablets in two strengths; 400 mg sulfamethoxazole and 80 mg trimethoprim and the DS form which means double strength, 800 mg sulfamethoxazole and 160 mg trimethoprim.
This medication is a combination of two antibiotics: sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim. It is used to treat a wide variety of bacterial infections (such as middle ear, urine, respiratory, and intestinal infections). It is also used to prevent and treat a certain type of pneumonia (pneumocystis-type). This medication should not be used in children less than 2 months of age due to the risk of serious side effects. This medication treats only certain types of infections. It will not work for viral infections (such as flu).
Sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim are both antibiotics that treat different types of infection caused by bacteria. The combination of sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim is used to treat ear infections, urinary tract infections, bronchitis, traveler's diarrhea, shigellosis, and Pneumocystis jiroveci pneumonia. Sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide