n., pl. hors d'oeuvre (ɔr ˈdɜrv) hors d'oeuvres (ɔr ˈdɜrvz, ˈdɜrv). a small portion of food served as an appetizer before a meal or as a snack with cocktails. hors d'oeuvre. n. pl. hors d'oeuvres (or ôr′) durvz dûrvz or'hors. D oeuvre an appetizer served before. a meal
1 In the United States, Appetizers are served before a meal, and is the most common term for hors d'oeuvre. 2  Light snacks served outside of the context of a meal are called hors d'oeuvres (with the English-language pluralization). Though any food served before the main course is technically an hors d'oeuvre, the phrase is generally limited to individual items, cheese, or fruit. For example, a glazed fig topped with mascarpone and wrapped with prosciutto is considered an hors d'oeuvre, whereas figs on a platter are not.
Hors d'oeuvres. Hors d'oeuvres (pronounced or-DERVS) are small one-or two-bite items that are served before a dinner, usually accompanied by cocktails, or in place of dinner at a cocktail party where a full dinner is not being served. There's really no limit to what sort of item can be considered an hors d'oeuvre, provided it is small (one to two bites) and is served before a dinner or in place of dinner at a cocktail party. More hors d'oeuvre examples:
Hors d'oeuvres are sometimes served with no meal afterward. This is the case with many reception and cocktail party events. Hors d'oeuvres may be served at the dinner table as a part of the meal or they may be served before seating. Hors d'oeuvres before a meal are either rotated by waiters or passed. Stationary hors d'oeuvres served at the table may be referred to as table hors d'oeuvres.. Though any food served before the main course is technically an hors d'oeuvre, the phrase is generally limited to individual items, cheese, or fruit. For example, a glazed fig topped with mascarpone and wrapped with prosciutto is considered an hors d'oeuvre, whereas figs on a platter are not.
Noun. 1. hors d'oeuvre-a dish served as an appetizer before the main meal. appetiser, appetizer, starter-food or drink to stimulate the appetite (usually served before a meal or as the first course). hors d'oeuvre. n. pl. hors d'oeuvres (or ôr′) durvz dûrvz or'hors. D oeuvre an appetizer served before. a meal
Indeed, a simple bowl of nuts could be considered an hors d'oeurve if served with drinks before dinner. There's really no limit to what sort of item can be considered an hors d'oeuvre, provided it is small (one to two bites) and is served before a dinner or in place of dinner at a cocktail party. More hors d'oeuvre examples:
This is the British English definition of hors d’oeuvre. View American English definition of hors d’oeuvre. Change your default dictionary to American English. View the pronunciation for hors d’oeuvre. Blog. A must for anyone with an interest in the changing face of language. The Macmillan Dictionary blog explores English as it is spoken around the world today. Definition and synonyms of hors d’oeuvre from the online English dictionary from Macmillan Publishers Limited.
Full Definition of HORS D'OEUVRE. : any of various savory foods usually served as appetizers. See hors d'oeuvre defined for English-language learners. See hors d'oeuvre defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 
Hors d'oeuvres can be served at a table or passed on trays among guests. Note that the word appetizer is sometimes used interchangeably with the word hors d'oeuvres, which can lead to confusion in cases where the word appetizer is understood to mean the first course of a meal. There's really no limit to what sort of item can be considered an hors d'oeuvre, provided it is small (one to two bites) and is served before a dinner or in place of dinner at a cocktail party. More hors d'oeuvre examples: