About ACS. The American College of Surgeons (ACS) is a scientific and educational association of surgeons that was founded in 1913 to improve the quality of care for the surgical patient by setting high standards for surgical education and practice. ACS is the world’s largest professional scientific and educational association of surgeons, with more than 80,000 members. Our mission is to improve the care of the surgical patient, and to safeguard standards of care in an optimal and ethical practice environment.
Before surgeons are qualified to operate, they must meet a set of challenging education requirements. These generally include four years of undergraduate study, four years of medical school leading to a Doctor of Medicine (M.D.) degree and 3-8 years of surgical residency at a hospital. Essential Information. Surgeons are medical doctors who perform operations as their primary method of treatment. Within this field, one can specialize even further in areas like orthopedic, neurological, cardiovascular or plastic surgery, among other areas.
Physicians and surgeons have demanding education and training requirements. Almost all physicians complete at least 4 years of undergraduate school, 4 years of medical school, and, depending on their specialty, 3 to 8 years in internship and residency programs. 
Surgeon Education Requirements and Career Information. Surgeons require a significant amount of formal education. Learn more about the education requirements and job duties to find out if a surgeon's career is right for you. View 10 Popular Schools ». Essential Information. Surgeons are medical doctors who perform operations as their primary method of treatment. Within this field, one can specialize even further in areas like orthopedic, neurological, cardiovascular or plastic surgery, among other areas.
Becoming a surgeon is a lengthy process generally requiring four years of undergraduate school, four years of medical school and 3-10 years of residency and fellowship training. Surgeons also continue the education process throughout their careers in order to maintain licensure and stay informed of medical advances. Surgeons must also become board-certified in surgery and any subspecialties by the American Board of Medical Specialists or the American Osteopathic Association. Surgeons are generally required to complete continuing education credits throughout their careers to maintain licensure and certification.
Orthopedic Surgeon Education & Training. To become an orthopedic surgeon, candidates must complete an undergraduate program and 4 years of medical school, resulting in a medical degree. Training may include a full orthopedic rotation during medical school. After graduation, physicians must complete a 5-year residency program. Board certification requires an orthopedic surgeon to complete training in a residency program, practice in the field of orthopedic surgery for 2 years, and pass an examination (written and oral).
Surgeons require a significant amount of formal education. Learn more about the education requirements and job duties to find out if a surgeon's career is right for you. Essential Information. Surgeons are medical doctors who perform operations as their primary method of treatment. Within this field, one can specialize even further in areas like orthopedic, neurological, cardiovascular or plastic surgery, among other areas.
Education. Educating and training surgeons was the catalyst for founding the American College of Surgeons (ACS) in 1913 by Franklin H. Martin, MD, FACS, and today, remains integral across the entire spectrum of College activities. 
Physicians and surgeons have demanding education and training requirements. Almost all physicians complete at least 4 years of undergraduate school, 4 years of medical school, and, depending on their specialty, 3 to 8 years in internship and residency programs. Certification is not required for physicians and surgeons; however, it may increase their employment opportunities. M.D.s and D.O.s seeking board certification in a specialty may spend up to 7 years in residency training; the length of time varies with the specialty.