[ 2 syll. ri-ni, rin-i ] The baby girl name Rini is pronounced as R IY Niy †. Rini is primarily used in Dutch, and it is of African-Swahili, Japanese, and Germanic origin. Rini is a diminutive form of the African and Swahili name Marini. Rini is also a form of the Japanese name Rin. Rini is also a Dutch form of Rina. Rini is not popular as a baby name for girls. It is not in the top 1000 names. Baby names that sound like Rini include Reeni, Reenie, Renie, Wreney, Wrenie, Raanee, Raeann, Raheem, Rahma, Rahnee, Rahni, Rahny, Raiann, Raianne, Raina, Rainee, Rainey, Raini, Rainie, and Rainy. 
Japanese people tend to have one given name, one surname and no middle name. Like names from other Asian cultures Japanese names are presented as surname followed by given name. This current format has existed since the 1870s. Just for fun, see the name Rini in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Rini in Nautical Flags page.
Please use this list of Japanese baby names only for reference/idea to name your kid/child. Database of baby names has been compiled from various references and suggestions provided by our web site visitors and resources partners. Meaning of Rini in Japanese origin/culture for Girl name with history and fame details. List of Japanese baby names, Japanese baby boy names (male), girl names (female) & Japanese names meanings has been compiled from various resources.
Name Rini generally means Little Bunny, is of Japanese origin, Name Rini is a Feminine (or Girl) name. . Similar sounding names: Reenie, Rania, Renie, Raina, Ran, Rana, Raine, Renu, Rene, Renae, Reino, Rena, Rani, Reno, Reina, Reine, Renia, Ren, Reene, Renee, Reena, Rein, Rain. Show more information for this name. Find compatibility of name Rini with different names. Meaning of name 'Rini' in different Region (Origin).
Nicknames for Rini: | Edit. Share what you know! Meanings and history of the name Rini: | Edit. Means little bunny, Japanese origin. Also comes from a short form of names ending in-rina, like Katrina and Sabrina. One of my best friend's middle names is Rini.
Rini Immigration to the US by Year You can find out when most of the Rini families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era. Name History and Origin for Rini Naming patterns can help you learn more about your family s cultural and ethnic background. You might find alternate name spellings which are helpful when searching for family records. Origin of Rini, Meaning of Rini. Origin: From the french name Chenfrenier. Apparently meaning money lender Taken from book of names in my Linguistics class which contained more than 14000 Italian surnames.
Top Places of Origin for Rini You can find out where the majority of Rini families were living before they immigrated to the U.S. You can learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Ports of Departure for Rini You can pinpoint where the majority of Rini families booked passage to the US. Origin of Rini, Meaning of Rini. Origin: From the french name Chenfrenier. Apparently meaning money lender Taken from book of names in my Linguistics class which contained more than 14000 Italian surnames.
Meaning of Rini. Japanese name. In Japanese, the name Rini means-little bunny.The name Rini originated as an Japanese name. The name Rini is most often used as a girl name or female name. Japanese Name Meaning-little bunny. Origin-Japan. 
Here are pictures of people with the name Rini. Help us put a face to the name by uploading your pictures to BabyNames.com!