Raw scores are converted to a scaled score with a high of 180, a low of 120, and a median score around 150. When an applicant applies to a law school, all scores from the past five years are reported. As of June 2014, it costs $170 (USD) to take the LSAT in the United States, and $165 (CAD) in Canada. 
Stats, Facts & More. For the 2014 entering class, the median GPA was 3.76 and the median LSAT was 167. The 75th and 25th percentiles for GPA were 3.84 and 3.51 respectively. The 75th and 25th percentiles for LSAT were 168 and 163 respectively. Stats, Facts & More. What are the medians? What is the size of the entering class? How diverse is the class? What is tuition? Do you offer clinical programs? What extra-curricular activities are offered? What are the housing options? Where is Georgetown Law located? Do you offer tours?
What's a good LSAT score? Funny you should ask. Your LSAT score can range anywhere from a 120 (low) to a 180 (killer). Even though the average LSAT score is approximately a 150, you'll have to do much better than that to get into one of the top 15 law schools in the country! Before you complete your LSAT registration, see below for the low and high ranges of LSAT scores for admittance into some top law schools around the country. 1 Although your LSAT score isn't the only facet considered when applying to law school, it's definitely a big deal! 2  Many law school admissions counselors consider your LSAT score to be the single most important factor for admittance.
The Law School Admissions Test (LSAT). This is an examination every law-school applicant must take, which is graded uniformly across all applicants. Scores on the LSAT range from a low of 120 to a high of 180. In other words, a person can take the LSAT and get all the questions wrong, but still receives a score of 120. Another person getting all the questions right receives a 180. 
For reporting purposes, Georgetown Law adheres to the ABA policy of reporting the higher LSAT score. For evaluation purposes, the Georgetown Admissions Committee typically considers the highest LSAT score. Georgetown Law requires only one LSAT score to apply to the J.D. program. Additional LSAT scores will be accepted. If you would like the Committee to consider additional LSAT scores before rendering a decision, you should complete the hold request section of the application.
Students looking to attend a prestigious law school close to the center of the federal government should look into Georgetown’s history of academic excellence. Median Student Scores. LSAT Range (25 to 75 Percentile). GPA Range (25 to 75 Percentile). 
Law Schools Most Forgiving of Low LSAT Scores When applying to law school, a good score on the LSAT can be a make-or-break factor. Here are the top law schools that are most forgiving of low LSAT scores. Law Schools Most Forgiving of Low LSAT Scores.
According to our research engine: The median LSAT score for Georgetown University Law Center in Washington, District of Columbia is 167, which is 12 higher than the average for all Law Schools. Law Schools Most Forgiving of Low LSAT Scores. When applying to law school, a good score on the LSAT can be a make-or-break factor. Here are the top law schools that are most forgiving of low LSAT scores.
Raw scores are converted to an LSAT scale that ranges from 120 to 180, with 120 being the lowest possible score and 180 the highest possible score. This is done through a statistical procedure known as equating, a method that adjusts for minor differences in difficulty between test forms. 1 Your score band, if your score was earned on the 120–180 scale. 2  Score bands reflect the precision of the LSAT and are reported to emphasize that your LSAT score is an estimate of your actual proficiency level. 3  A score band is reported for each individual score, as well as for your average score, if available.