The life cycle of the RNA viruses is also similar-attachment to the host cell, penetration, reproduction of genetic material, creation of the protective capsid, emergence from the cell. The major differences arise from the fact that the RNA viruses genetic information is stored, as their name suggests, in RNA, not DNA. In order to copy their genetic material, RNA viruses cannot rely on the mechanisms for genetic replication already present in the cell as the the DNA viruses do. Cells have their own DNA transcriptase (an enzyme which copies DNA) which they use to replicate their own DNA.
Split and merge into it. Answer by Dave Wisker. Confidence votes 1.5K. Viruses with RNA as their genetic material are called retroviruses. They use the enzyme reverse transcriptase to transcribe their RNA genome into DNA, which is then inserted into the host's genome. 
RNA Viruses. The structure of the RNA viruses is basically the same as that of the other viruses that we have described-a core of genetic material, usually contained within a protective capsid of protein, and in many cases, and lipid envelope as well. In order to copy their genetic material, RNA viruses cannot rely on the mechanisms for genetic replication already present in the cell as the the DNA viruses do. Cells have their own DNA transcriptase (an enzyme which copies DNA) which they use to replicate their own DNA.
Viruses with RNA as their genetic material but that include DNA intermediates in their replication cycle are called retroviruses, and comprise Group VI of the Baltimore classification. Notable human retroviruses include HIV-1 and HIV-2, the cause of the disease AIDS. An RNA virus is a virus that has RNA (ribonucleic acid) as its genetic material. This nucleic acid is usually single-stranded RNA (ssRNA) but may be double-stranded RNA (dsRNA).
What don't bacteria suddently all develop a nucleus and organelles so their methabolism will be better? becuase they are primitive. Same thing with RNA viruses. They are primitive, the fact they have RNA as genetic material is one of the characteristics of their state. Fri Aug 19, 2005 5:13 am. Yup..as Andrew (Mr.Mistery) said, there're 3 types of viruses gruped based on their genetic substances. It's already their speciality to be known as RNA viruses or DNA viruses. 
Section 6.3 Viruses: Structure, Function, and Uses. A virus is a small parasite that cannot reproduce by itself. Once it infects a susceptible cell, however, a virus can direct the cell machinery to produce more viruses. Most viruses have either RNA or DNA as their genetic material. The nucleic acid may be single-or double-stranded. The surface of viruses includes many copies of one type of protein that binds, or adsorbs, specifically to multiple copies of a receptor protein on a host cell. This interaction determines the host range of a virus and begins the infection process (Figure 6-15).
Viruses consist of genetic materialeither deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) or ribonucleic acid (RNA)surrounded by a protective coating of protein, called a capsid, with or without an outer lipid envelope. Viruses are between 20 and 100 times smaller than bacteria and hence are too small to be seen by light microscopy. Viruses are classified according to their type of genetic material, their strategy of replication, and their structure. The International Committee on Nomenclature of Viruses (ICNV), established in 1966, devised a scheme to group viruses into families, subfamilies, genera, and species.
The ICTV classifies RNA viruses as those that belong to Group III, Group IV or Group V of the Baltimore classification system of classifying viruses and does not consider viruses with DNA intermediates in their life cycle as RNA viruses. An RNA virus is a virus that has RNA (ribonucleic acid) as its genetic material. This nucleic acid is usually single-stranded RNA (ssRNA) but may be double-stranded RNA (dsRNA).
Pre-requisites: read Virus_Tech page 1.Many viruses carry RNA rather than DNA as their genetic material. This RNA may be single or double-stranded. Like DNA viruses, RNA viruses come in a wide variety of forms. 