Chromium Deficiency Symptoms. There are several signs of a chromium deficiency. Because many of the symptoms can overlap with other health conditions it is imperative to see your physician if you are suffering from these or any other symptoms. The most common chromium deficiency symptoms include: -Not being able to handle sugar or alcohol.
Here are the top five symptoms of chromium deficiency for easy reference: 1  You may experience a sudden and abrupt rise in anxiety levels. 2  You may get lightheaded, anxious, and your heart may start racing even after doing some light exercise. 1 With a deficiency of chromium, the chances of getting diabetes increase. 2  A young person may be suspected of chromium deficiency if he or she shows signs of muscle weakness, anxiety and fatigue, along with a slow growth rate.
Chromium Deficiency. The body needs chromium for normal growth and development. It is required by the body for the breakdown of sugars, fats, and proteins. Its deficiency, though rare, can lead to certain health problems. This article provides information about the causes and symptoms of this health condition. Chromium is a mineral required in trace amounts in our body. Its daily requirement in women and men is about 25 micrograms and 35 micrograms respectively. The deficiency of this mineral may occur if large amounts are lost from the body. For instance, consumption of large quantity of simple sugars may also lead to excretion of higher amount of chromium from the body. Physical trauma, some kind of infection, pregnancy, and breastfeeding may also lead to its deficiency.
The symptoms of chromium deficiency caused by long-term total parenteral nutrition are severely impaired glucose tolerance, weight loss, and confusion. However, subsequent studies questioned the validity of these findings. A natural form of chromium extracted from yeast, Glucose Tolerance Factor (GTF) chromium, was found to exert beneficial insulin-mimetic and insulin-potentiating effects in vitro and in a mouse model the GTF form was seen to produce an insulin-like effect by acting on cellular signals downstream of the insulin receptor.
A Emilia Klapp, Nutrition & Dietetics, answered. Symptoms of a chromium deficiency include a craving for sweets, depression, a decrease in the body’s ability to metabolize glucose and fats, an inhibition in the body’s production of protein, and an increased production of too much cholesterol and triglycerides. 
Tags: deficiency | of | Chromium | signs | Chromium deficiency symptoms Chromium deficiency signs anddeficiency of Chromium Signs of Chromium. 1 With a deficiency of chromium, the chances of getting diabetes increase. 2  A young person may be suspected of chromium deficiency if he or she shows signs of muscle weakness, anxiety and fatigue, along with a slow growth rate.
Chromium Deficiency Symptoms. 1. insulin resistance or glucose intolerance where cells in the body become resistant to the effects of insulin (in pushing glucose from the blood across cell membranes into cells), which affects the ability of insulin to regulate blood sugar and means higher amounts of insulin are needed. This shows up as a host of symptoms that include insulin resistance, type 2 diabetes, abnormal blood sugar and/or insulin levels, high triglyceride and blood pressure and low HDL cholesterol levels, all of which increase the risk of heart disease. Severe deficiency is, however, rare.
Chromium is a trace mineral that helps maintain normal blood glucose levels in your body. Learn who is at risk of deficiency and how a deficiency can lead to diabetes-like symptoms, as well as the issues, if any, related to chromium toxicity in this lesson. Knowing this close relationship between chromium and insulin, it's fairly easy to see that a chromium deficiency will result in diabetic-like symptoms that include elevated blood glucose. This is due to the fact that insulin is just not as efficient at doing its job without chromium.
1 If you have chronic fatigue and anxiety, you should visit your doctor for a glucose tolerance test. 2  If your doctor suspects chromium deficiency, the determination of blood sugar levels will help him or her prescribe medication to protect the body’s insulin making ability. 1 With a deficiency of chromium, the chances of getting diabetes increase. 2  A young person may be suspected of chromium deficiency if he or she shows signs of muscle weakness, anxiety and fatigue, along with a slow growth rate.
Visit your doctor for a glucose tolerance test if you suspect a chromium deficiency. A glucose tolerance test can determine your blood sugar levels and allow your doctor to prescribe medication to protect your body’s insulin-making ability. The risk of adult-onset diabetes increases with a deficiency in chromium. 