Kadabra evolves when you trade it with someone,it will evolve during the trade.That is for every game,you get alakazam when you trade a kadabra in any game. 
Drops. Ender Pearl (1-4). A Kadabra is characterized by its human-like body structure and its somewhat fox-like appearance. It has two large ears of the top of either side of its head, a red star-shaped symbol of its forehead (derived from Zener cards), and two somewhat sinister-looking eyes in the middles of its face. Its feet each have three toes: two in the front on each side, and one in the back near the ankle. Each of these toes has a large white claw attached to it. Kadabra wields one spoon, which is used to amplify its telekinetic powers.
Kadabra does not evolve based on level; you need to trade it to someone else, then it will immediately evolve into Alakazam. Abra evolves into Kadabra at Level 16. Kadabra doesn't evolve from leveling. He only evolves by trading him to another game pack.
The only way to make Kadabra evolve into Alakazam is by trading the Pokemon to someone else and then make the other person trade it … back to you. Abra evolves into Kadabra at Level 16. Kadabra doesn't evolve from leveling. He only evolves by trading him to another game pack.
Neutral 0%. Aggressive 20%. Kadabra is a Psychic-type Pokemon pokémon that evolves From abra at level. 16 it evolves Into alakazam when. Traded kadabra stares at its silver spoon to focus its. Mind it emits more alpha waves while doing. so
Aggressive 20%. Kadabra is a Psychic-type Pokemon pokémon that evolves From abra at level. 16 it evolves Into alakazam when. Traded kadabra stares at its silver spoon to focus its. mind Kadabra is a Psychic-type Pokemon pokémon that evolves From abra at level. 16 it evolves Into alakazam when. Traded kadabra stares at its silver spoon to focus its. Mind it emits more alpha waves while doing. so
Kadabra (Japanese: ユンゲラー Yungerer) is a Psychic-type Pokemon. Pokémon it evolves From abra starting at level 16 and evolves Into alakazam when. traded 1 Kadabra is also the only Pokemon, pokémon due to this, limitation whose evolution can be skipped in THE, tcg with a New abra card able to evolve directly Into. 2  Alakazam kadabra also did not appear In Pokemon: Pokémon ranger Shadows, of Almia whereas Abra and.  alakazam did
Kadabra evolves into Alakazam when traded. (Abra evolves into Kadabra starting at level 16). Kadabra is #64 in the National Pokedex, and was introduced in the Generation I Pokemon titles (Red, Blue, and Yellow) where it could be found (Red and Blue Only) in Cerulean Cave, and (Yellow Only) on Route 8. Abra evolves into Kadabra at Level 16. Kadabra doesn't evolve from leveling. He only evolves by trading him to another game pack.