With it, you will have several different deleting options on your iPod: * Erase Private Data: Allows you to preview and select specific data type for erasing. * Erase Deleted Files: Permanently wipe the files you have ever deleted from your iPod. * Erase All Data: One-click to delete everything from your iPod. By the way, iPod Data Eraser also works on iPhone and iPad.
Yes, if you restore your iPod or iPhone on iTunes it will delete Cydia. The restore function on iTunes restores your iPod or iPhone to its previous settings. + 7 others found this useful. 
You're going to hit Restore.. This will put your iPod back to factory settings. So, after you hit Restore, it will make sure that you do want to delete all the information off your iPod Touch, update your software, and try and fix any glitches that you have. Once you do this, you can actually Restore From Backup, as soon as that problem that you're having is fixed.
1 In the Summary panel, click Restore. 2  Click Restore again to confirm that you want to restore your device to factory settings and delete all data and content. iTunes will download the device software file and restore your device. 3  After your device is restored to factory settings, it will restart. Use iTunes to restore your iPhone, iPad, or iPod to factory settings. When you restore your iOS device or iPod to factory settings, you'll also install the latest version of software. You can then set up your device as new, or restore from a backup.
Level 10 (167,040 points). If you restore from backup then the iPod will be like it was when the backup was made, including game progress, provide that the apps, music and other items that are synced to the computer are in the iTunes library on which you do the restore. Music, apps, synced photo and move, books are not in the backup. Level 1 (0 points). It will restore everything on itt buy you can back it up to iCloud and get the backup after you restore it or you can back it up to your computer.
Yes, you will lose all your settings. That is the whole purpose of reseting a device. If instead, you just want to restart your device, you hold the Sleep/Wake button and the Home button at the same time for at least 10 seconds. For clarification: Reseting will erase your data, restarting will not erase your data. The easiest way to backup an iPod Touch these days is to use iCloud backup.
When you restore your ipod, it wipes it clean, erases everything off of it, and restores it back to factory settings(factory settings=how you bought it). Will your ipod even connect to itunes? If it does, transfer purchases from your ipod and sync it. 