Grand Central Terminal is a famous NYC landmark in Midtown Manhattan. First and foremost, Grand Central Station is where NYC subway trains originate and terminate. Based on the number of platforms it features, Grand Central Terminal is the largest train station in the world, with 44.
Subways. Grand Central Terminal is serviced by the 4, 5, 6, 7, and S Subway Lines. For more information visit the MTA's subway page. Local: Grand Central Terminal is serviced by the M101, M102, M103, M1, M2, M3, M4, Q32 and M42 buses. Bus schedules can be found at the MTA's bus page.
Located in Midtown Manhattan at the intersection of Park Avenue and 42nd Street, with parts of the station extending east to Lexington Avenue, it is the second busiest station in the system, with 46,074,652 passengers in 2014; only the Times Square station complex has more riders. Space was left for the platforms and line, but it was never built. Except for the 42nd Street Shuttle (which is inaccessible at its other station at Times Square), the whole station is handicapped accessible, as is the connection to Grand Central Terminal.
Although the terminal has been officially called Grand Central Terminal since the present structure opened, it has always been more colloquially and affectionately known as Grand Central Station, a name of one of the earlier railroad stations on the same site. Underneath the rest of Grand Central Terminal is a private platform, Track 61, which was built mainly for former United States President Franklin D. Roosevelt. He would travel into the city using his personal train into Track 61, then take a specially designed elevator to the surface.
Grand Central Terminal Grand Central Terminal (GCT) is a station located on 42nd Street and Park Avenue in Midtown Manhattan, New York City. According to some sources, New York's Grand Central Terminal is the world's largest station in terms of platform capacity. Japan's Nagoya Station is the world's largest station in terms of floor area. Mumbai's Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus is one of India's most historic and busiest stations
Grand Central Station is the name of the nearby U.S. Post Office station at 450 Lexington Avenue and the name also refers to the Grand Central – 42nd Street subway station which serves the terminal area. Grand Central Terminal features both monumental spaces and meticulously crafted detail. In a February 2013 BBC News article, historian David Cannadine described it as one of the most majestic buildings of the twentieth century. Underneath the rest of Grand Central Terminal is a private platform, Track 61, which was built mainly for former United States President Franklin D. Roosevelt. He would travel into the city using his personal train into Track 61, then take a specially designed elevator to the surface.
Other examples include the Cathedral of St John the Divine and the Registry Hall at Ellis Island. Grand Central Terminal is located at E. 42nd Street and Park Avenue. It’s a major subway, rail, and bus terminal. Grand Central Terminal. This majestic, lively hub for commuters is a must-see for architecture buffs. Stand aside from the 750,000 daily visitors rushing to and from their trains and admire the architectural beauty of the majestic
Commonly referred to as 'Grand Central Station,' the historic Grand Central Terminal is a famous NYC landmark in Midtown Manhattan. Located on 42nd St and Park Ave, Grand Central is one of the busiest train stations in the world, and serves nearly 200,000 NYC commuters every day. Built in 1871, Grand Central Terminal is home to 44 train platforms, several great NY restaurants, and some of the most beautiful Beaux-Arts architecture in NYC. First and foremost, Grand Central Station is where NYC subway trains originate and terminate. Based on the number of platforms it features, Grand Central Terminal is the largest train station in the world, with 44.
For other subway lines to Brooklyn, you will have to transfer from Times Square. Take the S shuttle train (color code grey) west across 42nd Street, from Grand Central (East 42nd) to Times Square (West 42nd). At the Times Square Station, you can transfer to the Downtown 1 or 2 (of the 1-2-3, the red line) to Brooklyn. To the Bergen Street station on the F and G (at Smith Street): take the Manhattan-bound 7 train (the purple line), 1 stop, from 42nd Street-Grand Central to 42nd Street-Bryant Park. You can also just walk to the 42nd Street-Bryant Park station. It's only 3 or 4 blocks west on 42nd Street.