[ 2 syll. gi-rar(d) , gir-a- rd ] The baby boy name Girard is pronounced as JH-er AA RD †. Girard is primarily used in English and it is of Germanic origin. Girard is a form of the English, French, and Dutch name Gerard. Girard is not popular as a baby name for boys. It is not in the top 1000 names. 
Then just follow the diagram below. Just for fun, see the name Girard in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Girard in Nautical Flags page. In the U.S. in 2014 less than 5 boys given the name. Less than 5 girls were given the name. View the Girard Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Girard has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Girard to other names.
Girard is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 6 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Gi-rard. In the U.S. in 2014 less than 5 boys given the name. Less than 5 girls were given the name. View the Girard Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Girard has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Girard to other names.
You can find out where the majority of the Girard families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. 
Meaning of Girard. German name. In German, the name Girard means-spear strength.The name Girard originated as an German name. The name Girard is most often used as a boy name or male name. German Name Meaning-spear strength. Origin-Germany. Global Star Registery-Name a star after someone special! 
Gerard is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 6 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Ge-rard. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 1009 in baby name popularity for boys with 201 occurrences. Less than 5 girls were given the name. English names generally consist of a given name, middle name and family name. Many English speaking countries have fairly flexible naming laws. This allows the multicultural families that live in these countries to merge the naming conventions of their faiths or previous nationalities with their current homeland.
What does Gerard mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Gerard is of English and Irish origin. The meaning of Gerard is spear brave. It is also of French origin, where its meaning is spear rule. English names generally consist of a given name, middle name and family name. Many English speaking countries have fairly flexible naming laws. This allows the multicultural families that live in these countries to merge the naming conventions of their faiths or previous nationalities with their current homeland.
Gerard is largely used in the English, French, and Dutch languages, and it is derived from Irish and Germanic origins. From Germanic roots, its meaning is brave with the spear-in this context, Gerard can be used in the Dutch and English languages. A two-element name, it is derived from the elements ' ger ' meaning spear; ' hart ' brave, hardy. Gairhard (Germanic) and Gerart (Germanic) are original forms of Gerard. It has an aristocratic flavor to it, and is today used mainly by Roman Catholics. Gerard is an English variant of the name Garret (English and Irish). Gerard is also an English and French variant of the name Gerald (English and German).
Gerard /ger-ard/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced je-RARD. It is of Old English origin, and the meaning of Gerard is  spear brave . Closely related to Gerald. The name of numerous saints. 
Girard /gi-rard/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name. Girard's name origin is Old English, and the meaning of the name Girard is spear brave. Girard is an alternate spelling of Gerard (Old English): closely related to Gerald. Compare last name Girouard. Kreatif forms: Georrard, Gorard, Gurard. 