At this point, it divides, giving rise to the common carotid artery, which carries blood to the right side of the neck and head, and the right subclavian artery, which leads to the right ... Click to read more below. The brachiocephalic trunk is another word for the brachiocephalic artery. The brachiocephalic artery supplies blood to the tissues of the brain and the head. It is the first branch of the aortic arch and rises up to a point near the junction of the sternum (breast bone) and the right clavicle (collarbone).
Arteries are blood vessels that carry blood away from the heart. The brachiocephalic (Brachi- , -cephal) artery extends from the aortic arch to the head. It branches off into the right common carotid artery and the right subclavian artery.
Pulmonary arteries carry blood from the heart to the lungs where the blood picks up oxygen. The oxygen rich blood is then returned to the heart via the pulmonary veins. Systemic arteries deliver blood to the rest of the body. The aorta is the main systemic artery and the largest artery of the body. It originates from the heart and branches out into smaller arteries which supply blood to the head region (brachiocephalic artery), the heart itself (coronary arteries), and the lower regions of the body. The smallest arteries are called arterioles and they play a vital role in microcirculation.
The brachiocephalic artery is a branch off of the aortic arch and send blood to the head, neck, and right arm. Edit. Share to: 1  Blood Gas Testing for the COPD Patient If you have difficulty breathing, seek medical attention. 2  Shortness of breath is a symptom of a dangerous and progressive disease known as COPD.
Arteries are blood vessels that supply blood to the tissues of body. They carry the blood away from heart and because the blood inside them is oxygenated, they appear red in color.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. It is an artery of the mediastinum that supplies oxygenated blood the right arm, head and neck.