Estradiol (Estrace) Dosage. Your dose of estradiol will depend on the condition that is being treated. Estradiol tablets in doses of 0.5 milligrams (mg), 1 mg, or 2 mg are typically given on a daily basis. They can also be prescribed to be taken for three weeks, followed by one week of no medication. The tablets can be taken more than once a day for some conditions.
1 Attempts to discontinue or taper medication should be made at 3-month to 6-month intervals. 2  The usual initial dosage range is 1 to 2 mg daily of estradiol adjusted as necessary to control presenting symptoms. 3  The minimal effective dose for maintenance therapy should be determined by titration. 1 For treatment of female hypoestrogenism due to hypogonadism, castration, or primary ovarian failure. 2  Treatment is usually initiated with a dose of 1 to 2 mg daily of estradiol, adjusted as necessary to control presenting symptoms; t
1 The usual initial dosage range is 1 to 2 mg daily of estradiol adjusted as necessary to control presenting symptoms. 2  The minimal effective dose for maintenance therapy should be determined by titration. 3  Administration should be cyclic (e.g., 3 weeks on and 1 week off). 1 For treatment of female hypoestrogenism due to hypogonadism, castration, or primary ovarian failure. 2  Treatment is usually initiated with a dose of 1 to 2 mg daily of estradiol, adjusted as necessary to control presenting symptoms; t
Estradiol Vaginal Cream Dosing for Vaginal Symptoms. The standard recommended estradiol vaginal cream dosage for treating vaginal symptoms is 2 to 4 grams of cream inserted vaginally once daily for one to two weeks, depending on the severity of your symptoms. After that, your healthcare provider may recommend cutting back the dose (by half) for another one to two weeks. After that, it is typically recommended that the estradiol vaginal cream dosage be reduced to 1 gram three times per week.
1 Treatment is usually initiated with a dose of 1 to 2 mg daily of estradiol, adjusted as necessary to control presenting symptoms; the minimal effective dose for maintenance therapy should be determined by titration. 1 For treatment of female hypoestrogenism due to hypogonadism, castration, or primary ovarian failure. 2 
How Much to Take. In the U.S., the lowest available dose of oral (pill) estradiol (as Estrace, for example) is 0.5 mg. But that tablet is scored so it will easily break into two halves, each containing 0.25 mg of estradiol. Thus, a bottle of a hundred tablets of 0.5 mg estradiol will last for 200 doses. 
DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION. Use of ESTRACE (estradiol vaginal cream, USP, 0.01%), alone or in combination with a progestin, should be limited to the shortest duration consistent with treatment goals and risks for the individual woman. 
For most women, the recommended starting Estrace dose is 1 mg or 2 mg once daily. If necessary, your healthcare provider may increase or decrease your dose. It is recommended that Estrace be taken cyclically (such as three weeks on and one week off). As always, do not adjust your Estrace dose unless your healthcare provider specifically instructs you to do so. When using Estrace for menopausal symptoms, it is typically recommended that this medication be taken at the lowest effective dose for the shortest possible period of time.
The recommended dose range of Estrace (estradiol) vaginal cream for the treatment of menopause symptoms is 2 to 4 g (marked on the applicator) daily for one or two weeks, then gradually reduced to one half initial dosage for a similar period. Attempts to discontinue or taper medication should be made at 3-month to 6-month intervals. The usual initial dosage range is 1 to 2 mg daily of Estrace. The dose will be adjusted as necessary to control presenting symptoms. Administration should be cyclic (e.g., 3 weeks on and 1 week off).