The theory that frustration often leads to behavior characteristic of a much earlier period of life and was proposed in 1941 by U.S. psychologists Roger G. Barker, Tamara Dembo and Kurt Lewin. FRUSTRATION-REGRESSION HYPOTHESIS: The frustration regression hypothesis looks at behaviour from frustration.. 
According to this view, frustration, which is defined as the state that emerges when circumstances interfere with a goal response, often leads to aggression. 2. In some situations, frustration does augment the likelihood of aggression. Frustration does not inevitably result in aggression. It is important to identify the circumstances under which frustration will end in aggression. 1. Berkowitz contends that aggression is the result of an interaction between an internal emotional state and cues that are available in the environment.
Full Definition of PSYCHOLOGY. 1. : the science of mind and behavior. 2. a: the mental or behavioral characteristics of an individual or group b: the study of mind and behavior in relation to a particular field of knowledge or activity. 3. — psy·chol·o·gist \-jist\ noun. See psychology defined for English-language learners
Magnitude of Frustration is the intensity of blocking goal directed behavior. According to Dollard’s Frustration-Aggression Theory, how intense the situation, for it may become the antecedent to an aggressive act (1994). For example one study had confederates brake into a queue and said, “Excuse me” or nothing at all.
aggression. a form of behavior characterized by physical or verbal attack. It may appear either appropriate and self-protective, even constructive, as in healthy self-assertiveness, or inappropriate and destructive. 
Concept. Aggression is defined as an action with the intent to harm, and can be physical and non-physical (Baron, & Richardson, 1994). There are many areas where aggression manifests in our society today, such as domestic violence, abuse, school bullying, road-rage, and war. According to Dollard’s Frustration-Aggression Theory, how intense the situation, for it may become the antecedent to an aggressive act (1994). For example one study had confederates brake into a queue and said, “Excuse me” or nothing at all.
Unexpected occurrence of the frustration also increases the likelihood of aggression. Frustration does not always lead to aggression, particularly when we deliberately suppress it because either we know that it is wrong or we fear the social consequences of being aggressive (eg. For such people, frustration is more likely to that lead directly to aggression than for other people with a calmer disposition or greater self-control.
According to Yale Group, frustration is the condition which exists when a goal-response suffers interference, while aggression is defined as an act whose goal-response is injury to an organism (or organism surrogate).. However, aggression is not always the response to frustration. It attempts to give an explanation as to the cause of violence. The theory, developed by John Dollard and colleagues, says that frustration causes aggression, but when the source of the frustration cannot be challenged, the aggression gets displaced onto an innocent target. There are many examples of this
Definition: The frustration-aggression theory argues that social movements occur when frustration leads to collective, often aggressive behavior. 