The following is a comprehensive (but not complete) list of foods that do contain gluten or that may contain it. This list can be used as a guideline for those with gluten intolerance or celiac disease. Many items listed below are traditionally considered safe. 
For those with celiac disease, gluten intolerance is not just an inconvenience — it can be debilitating. In such cases, you must not eat any foods containing gluten. Gluten can cause long-term damage to your small intestine, and may result in nutritional deficiencies. Currently there are no known cures or effective treatments for celiac disease. Gluten may also show up as ingredients in barley malt, chicken broth, malt vinegar, some salad dressings, veggie burgers (if not specified gluten-free), and soy sauce. The protein may even hide in many common seasonings and spice mixes.
Gluten is a protein found in wheat, rye and barley that causes intestinal damage (often resulting in wt loss and nutrient deficiencies) for individuals with gluten intolerance. Common symptoms of gluten intolerance include: diarrhea, abdominal pain, bloating, fatigue, forgetfulness and irritability. 
While grains that contain gluten are out, there are many naturally gluten-free grains that you can enjoy in a variety of creative ways. Many of these grains can be found in your local grocery store, but some of the lesser-known grains may only be found in specialty or health food stores. Many items that usually contain gluten have gluten-free alternatives that are widely available in most grocery stores, and make living gluten-free much easier. Keep in mind, however, that minimally processed fresh foods are a crucial part of a healthy gluten-free diet.
Gluten is found in wheat, rye, barley and any foods made with these grains. Avoiding wheat can be especially hard because this means you should avoid all wheat-based flours and ingredients. These include but are not limited to: 1  White Flour. 2  Whole Wheat Flour. 3  Durum Wheat. 4  Graham Flour. 5  Triticale. 6  Kamut. 7  Semolina. 
So let's look at two lists of foods containing gluten. The foods in the first list are off limits because they contain wheat, rye or barley flour. You might like to bookmark this page on your mobile device so that you have it to hand when doing your grocery shopping or eating out. 
A. Gluten is a protein found in the seeds of several grains such as barley, rye, and wheat. A huge number of foods contain gluten. Gluten provides structure or binding to baked products. While it's quite difficult to avoid gluten, many stores, particularly natural food stores, display foods in a gluten-free area of the store. 
Definition. A gluten-free diet is a diet that excludes the protein gluten. Gluten is found in grains such as wheat, barley, rye, and a cross between wheat and rye called triticale. A gluten-free diet is primarily used to treat celiac disease. Gluten causes inflammation in the small intestines of people with celiac disease.
Most processed baked goods are made from wheat, so these contain gluten. Look for gluten free alternatives to these goodies: Cereal made from rye, wheat, bran, and barley always contain gluten, but ones containing oats, corn, and rice are often processed on the same equipment as their gluteny counterparts. It is imperative that you look for the gluten free label on cereal. In its natural state, meat and poultry is gluten free. Since gluten appears in many foods, some obvious and some not so obvious, the list of foods containing gluten is a long one. Do not be alarmed, though. For any gluteny food that can be cooked or baked, there is a way to make it gluten free.