1 Calories In Melted Breakfast Wrap. 2  226 calories, 10g fat, 23g carbs, 19g protein, 10g fiber. 3  Calories In Grilled Spinach Feta Egg Breakfast Wrap. 4  322 calories, 11g fat, 33g carbs, 23g protein, 5g fiber. 
Warm and tender grilled or crispy 100% white meat chicken breast topped with a strip of hickory-smoked bacon, shredded iceberg lettuce, juicy tomato, Jalapeno Monterey Jack cheese, and a creamy mayonnaise-style sauce all wrapped up in a steamed, soft whole wheat flour tortilla. Due to the individualized nature of food allergies and food sensitivities, guests’ physicians may be best positioned to make recommendations for guests with food allergies and special dietary needs. If you have questions about our food, please reach out to Guest Relations at 1-888-424-4622. Thank you.
Premium McWrap is served in a convenient, hand-held package to ﬁ t a busy, on-the-go lifestyle. McDonald’s evolving menu We know our customers are looking for a variety of freshly prepared, convenient meal options that taste great. © 2013 McDonald’s New unexpected ﬂ avor experience Premium McWrap combines fresh vegetables, juicy chicken breast ﬁ let and tasty sauces in a warm tortilla bringing customers a new unexpected ﬂ avor experience at McDonald’s.
The Breakfast Wrap is filled with sausage, bacon, egg, cheese, a potato rosti and ketchup or brown sauce. It contains 595 calories – almost a third of the daily recommended amount. A Big Mac has 490 calories. Overtaken: The Big Mac has a new rival in the fatty food stakes-and that's a breakfast wrap! By comparison, a Big Mac has 36 per cent of a person’s fat allowance and 2.1g of salt.
McDonald’s has launched an all-in-one ‘Breakfast Wrap’ that is fattier, saltier and contains more calories than a Big Mac. On the plus side, the breakfast combo contains free-range eggs and prime cuts of British pork. Filling: The potato, sausage, egg, cheese and bacon wrap contains 600 calories-more than the Big Mac. Overtaken: The Big Mac has a new rival in the fatty food stakes-and that's a breakfast wrap! By comparison, a Big Mac has 36 per cent of a person’s fat allowance and 2.1g of salt.
There are 470 calories in a 1 wrap serving of McDonald's Premium McWrap Chicken & Ranch (Grilled). Calorie breakdown: 36% fat, 35% carbs, 29% protein. Your daily values may be higher or lower depending on your calorie needs. Information for this food was submitted to the FatSecret food database by member Sonikgirl on 29 Aug 13, and last modified on 13 Jul 15 by member rachqatsi.
This is almost half the recommended salt limit of 6g a day for adults – and more than half a child’s allowance of 4g. Overtaken: The Big Mac has a new rival in the fatty food stakes-and that's a breakfast wrap! By comparison, a Big Mac has 36 per cent of a person’s fat allowance and 2.1g of salt.
Rumor has it that they are hoping the McWrap will attract the millennial customers who are presently going to Subway for a “healthy” sandwich. The McWrap will come in three varieties: Chicken and Bacon, Chicken and Ranch, and Chicken and Sweet Chili, and each can be ordered grilled or crispy (read: fried). Depending on your selection, you're looking at: 360 to 600 calories
The nutrition facts for the McDonald's Chicken & Bacon McWrap are also really similar to the Subway Oven Roasted Chicken sandwich with bacon. The McWrap has about 5% more calories and a bit more fat than the Subway sandwich. The Subway sandwich is the healthier option here, but not by much. So there you have it. McDonald's actually has created a menu option that can compete with Subway when it comes to nutriti
However, what you probably didn’t realize is that you can special-order anything at McDonald’s. So, if you really wanted a crispy chicken wrap, you could order it without the bacon or cheese (all versions contain cheese), and save yourself 100 calories, 8 grams of fat, and 3.5 grams of saturated fat. The McWrap will come in three varieties: Chicken and Bacon, Chicken and Ranch, and Chicken and Sweet Chili, and each can be ordered grilled or crispy (read: fried).