Construct Validity. You are probably already familiar with the definition of a construct. A construct is an attribute, skill, or ability that is based on established theories and exists in the human brain. Intelligence, anxiety, and depression are all examples of constructs. You can see here why validity is important in psychology. Without validity, your assessment results are completely useless, and your attempts to help the client using the information from the assessment could end up harming your client.
Content validity is most often measured by relying on the knowledge of people who are familiar with the construct being measured. These subject-matter experts are usually provided with access to the measurement tool and are asked to provide feedback on how well each question measures the construct in question. Content Validity Definition. When it comes to developing measurement tools such as intelligence tests, surveys, and self-report assessments, validity is important.
Construct validity refers to whether a scale or test measures the construct adequately. Construct validity defines how well a test or experiment measures up to its claims. It refers to whether the operational definition of a variable actually reflect the true theoretical meaning of a concept. Don't miss these related articles: 
Content validity is an important research methodology term that refers to how well a test measures the behavior for which it is intended. 
the degree to which an analysis gauges a symbolizing example of the topic content or behavior that is being analyzed. CONTENT VALIDITY: Content validity exists in some form in nearly all scientific constructs.. No related posts. 
External validity refers to the extent to which the results of a study can be generalized to other settings (ecological validity), other people (population validity) and over time (historical validity). Face Validity. This is the least sophisticated measure of validity. Face validity is simply whether the test appears (at face value) to measure what it claims to. Tests wherein the purpose is clear, even to naive naïve, respondents are said to have high face. validity
Let's review. Validity refers to the extent to which a test measures what it is supposed to measure. There are three types of validity. Construct validity, is the degree to which a test measures the construct that it is supposed to measure. You can see here why validity is important in psychology. Without validity, your assessment results are completely useless, and your attempts to help the client using the information from the assessment could end up harming your client.
Concurrent validity is a measure of how well a particular test correlates with a previously validated measure. It is commonly used in social science, psychology and education. Don't miss these related articles: 
Social Processes: Methodology · Types of test. In psychometrics, content validity (also known as logical validity) refers to the extent to which a measure represents all facets of a given social concept. For example, a depression scale may lack content validity if it only assesses the affective dimension of depression but fails to take into account the behavioral dimension. Content validity is related to face validity, though content validity should not be confused with face validity. The latter is not validity in the technical sense; it refers, not to what the test actually measures, but to what it appears superficially to measure