Certifying Documents. Copies of documents provided in support of an application, or other purpose required by the National Law, must be certified as true copies of the original documents. Certified copies will only be accepted in hard copy by mail or in person (not by fax, email, etc). 
There is no legislation in Western Australia that stipulates either how to certify a copy of a document or who can do it. However, it is usual for documents to be certified by a person who is authorised as a witness for statutory declarations under Schedule 2 of the Oaths, Affidavits and Statutory Declarations Act 2005.
Typically, a notary public can only make certified copies from an original document. In some cases, such as when the original document no longer exists, a notary public can make a note on the certified copy that it is “a photocopy of a photocopy,” states the National Notary Association. Process. For a notary public to make a copy certification, the holder of the original document must appear before the notary along with the original document. The notary then verifies the custodian's identity, makes the copy, fills out a copy certification form, and applies the official notarized stamp.
Documents in languages other than English. You should not certify a document in a language other than English unless you can be. sure that the original and the copy are identical. A solution to this is to have the original. photocopied in your presence. However, it is usual for documents to be certified by a person who is authorised as a witness for statutory declarations under Schedule 2 of the Oaths, Affidavits and Statutory Declarations Act 2005.
What if your authorized notarial duties do not include making certified or attested copies of documents&#63 As an alternative, the document custodian may wish to swear/affirm that a copy he made of an original document is a true copy. Personal Documents Notaries may make attested copies of most any personal document if they are presented with the original document, and if the original document is not a public or vital record. Copying of Notarial Records In some states, copy attestation is limited to the notary's recordbook or journal entries.
Guidelines for the certification of documents. The following is a guide to help you prepare your certified documents correctly. Certified documents are copies of important documents which need to be certified as true copies of the originals by a person authorised to do so. At certain stages of the application process, for approval as a higher education provider and. provider, you will be asked to produce ‘certified documents”. These are copies of important documents which need to be certified as true copies of the originals by a person authorised to do so. The following is a guide to help you prepare your certified documents correctly.
If you are outside the territory of India, you can have your documents certified as true copies by an Indian embassy or consulate. If you want to have a document issued by a country or territory other than India certified as a true copy, you must refer to the table for the corresponding country or territory. If you are outside the territory of Mexico, you can have your documents certified as true copies by a Mexican embassy or consulate. If you want to have a document issued by a country or territory other than Mexico
‘authenticate’ either the copy or the original document. Documents in languages other than English You should not certify a document in a language other than English unless you can be sure that the original and the copy are identical. A solution to this is to have the original photocopied in your presence. However, it is usual for documents to be certified by a person who is authorised as a witness for statutory declarations under Schedule 2 of the Oaths, Affidavits and Statutory Declarations Act 2005.
Certifying a document. Certify a document as a true copy of the original by getting it signed and dated by a professional person, like a solicitor. When you apply for something like a bank account or mortgage, you may be asked to provide documents that are certified as true copies of the original. 