Isle of Jura Single Malt Scotch 16 year old Distilled at the village of Craighouse since 1810 and taking its name from the place where it is created, Isle of Jura is the only malt whisky produced on the island and remains the pride of Jura's people. Isle of Jura Single Malt Scotch 21 year old expression. This island playground for the rich and famous lies off the west coast of Scotland. Home to 7 private estates, the soaring Paps of Jura, one shop, one pub and since 1810 one fine malt whisky distillery.
Isle of Jura whisky. 2003 - The Isle of Jura 'Superstition' is launched; a vatting of regular Isle of Jura and the heavily peated variety that has been distilled since 1999. The result of the vatting is a relatively lightly peated whisky. 2007 - Whyte & Mackay is bought by United Spirits, the liquor company of Indian tycoon Vijay Mallya. 
Today, I’ll be taking a look at Jura Superstition. It’s one of their standard expressions and will set you back somewhere between $29-46 in most shops. The name, so the folk at Jura tell us, stems from the many superstitions present on the Isle of Jura. One of them is that it is unlucky to cut peat before the beginning of May – I’m sure that one wasn’t invented by a group of laborers who prefer to work when it’s warm out or anything..
Jura distillery is a Scotch whisky distillery on the island of Jura in the Inner Hebrides off the West Coast of Scotland. The distillery is owned by Whyte and Mackay, which in turn is owned by Philippines-based Emperador Inc. . Extremely unget-at-able were George Orwell's words on describing how to reach Jura. The island is as awkward to reach today as it was in 1946. The journey from London involves two flights and a boat. From March to October there is a passenger ferry from Tayvallich on the west c
Product Description. Jura Superstition is adorned with an ancient Ankh cross which is a symbol of luck in the western isles and is displayed on the front of the bottle. Tasting Notes: Colour: Rich amber. Aroma: Olives with a hint of smoke. Taste: Cinnamon, allspice, cloves, nuts and a touch of peat.
Visitors to the distillery are offered a free dram (3.7 mL) for life, every month at the Jura pub, as part of the Diurach promotional programme. The Isle of Jura is seven miles (11 km) wide and thirty miles (48 km) long and it has only one road, one pub and one distillery. Extremely unget-at-able were George Orwell's words on describing how to reach Jura. The island is as awkward to reach today as it was in 1946. The journey from London involves two flights and a boat. From March to October there is a passenger ferry from Tayvallich on the west coast of Scotland.
LS15-306*. Jura is an island wrapped in superstition. Never cut peat before May. Always finish a bottle of Jura on the day its opened. There is a litany of strange and bewildering customs on Jura but maybe the one regarding the Ankh cross demands the greatest attention. 
Jura Superstition has been named The Whisky Shop’s Whisky of the Year 2012. The Whisky Shop has 20 stores across the UK with around 3 million customers visiting their stores every year. It’s Whisky of the Year award is chosen by a mix of consumers, sales and recommendations from the store managers. Jura Superstition beat off stiff competition from over 300 other whiskies in store, including Dalmore 12 which won the award last year.
Single malt Scotch whisky. Taste. Jura Superstition is crafted from a selection of the finest aged Jura single malt whiskies. This mysterious spirit has a unique style and character, with tastes of tangy cinnamon, ginger spice and honey with whispers of salty sea spray, rich coffee and roasted chestnuts. Diurachs is the Gaelic name for the people of Jura. Proud of our land and our whisky, we are a small and close knit community of fewer than 200, united by the island we love and the warmth of its people. With a dram of the good stuff in hand, we toast the health of our friends near and far.