Acidity of a-hydrogens. Alkyl hydrogen atoms bonded to a carbon atom in a a (alpha) position relative to a carbonyl group display unusual acidity. While the pK a values for alkyl C-H bonds is typically on the order of 40-50, pK a values for these alpha hydrogens is more on the order of 19-20. 
The transition depicted here produces an H-alpha photon, and the first line of the Balmer series. For hydrogen () this transition results in a photon of wavelength 656 nm (red). Therefore, the H-alpha line occurs where hydrogen is being ionized. The H-alpha line saturates (self-absorbs) relatively easily because hydrogen is the primary component of nebulae, so while it can indicate the shape and extent of the cloud, it cannot be used to accurately determine the cloud's mass.
In the presence of a base alpha-hydrogens to carbonyl functional group can be abstracted very easily to yield a carbanion. The acidity of the α-hydrogen of carbonyl compounds depends on the stability of the carbanion formed (which is the conjugate base in this case). 1] α-Hydrogens of Ketones vs Aldehydes. The alpha-hydrogens of ketones (pKa = 20) are less acidic as compared to aldehydes (pKa = 17). This is because the alkyl group R” of ketones pushes electrons via inductive effect on to the alpha-carbon.
H-alpha Emission: In the simplified Rutherford Bohr model of the hydrogen atom, the Balmer lines result from an electron jump between the second energy level closest to the nucleus, and those levels more distant. Therefore, the H-alpha line occurs where hydrogen is being ionized. The H-alpha line saturates (self-absorbs) relatively easily because hydrogen is the primary component of nebulae, so while it can indicate the shape and extent of the cloud, it cannot be used to accurately determine the cloud's mass.
1 acidity of alpha hydrogen and beta-keto ester. 2  Any hydrogen alpha to (adjacent to) a carbonyl group is more acidic than a regular hydrogen. 3  The alpha hydrogen of a beta-keto ester is even more acidic because it's adjacent to 2 carbonyl groups. 1 The alpha hydrogen of a beta-keto ester is even more acidic because it's adjacent to 2 carbonyl groups. 2  The reason for the acidity is the stabilization of the deprotonated species by the enolate ion resonance structures.
H-alpha (Hα) is a specific deep-red visible spectral line in the Balmer series created by hydrogen with a wavelength of 656.28 nm, which occurs when a hydrogen electron falls from its third to second lowest energy level. Therefore, the H-alpha line occurs where hydrogen is being ionized. The H-alpha line saturates (self-absorbs) relatively easily because hydrogen is the primary component of nebulae, so while it can indicate the shape and extent of the cloud, it cannot be used to accurately determine the cloud's mass.
Alpha hydrogens in an ester. Alpha hydrogens in an alkyl bromide. 1  Related terms: β-carbon, beta-carbon, primary hydrogen, secondary hydrogen, tertiary hydrogen, β-hydrogen, beta-hydrogen, β-elimination, α-helix, β-sheet. 
Acidity of a-hydrogens. Alkyl hydrogen atoms bonded to a carbon atom in a a (alpha) position relative to a carbonyl group display unusually high acidity. While the pK a values for alkyl C-H bonds is typically on the order of 40-50, pK a values for these alpha hydrogens is usually within the range of 19-20
Alpha and beta carbons in a skeletal formula. The carbonyl has two β-hydrogens and five α-hydrogens. The alpha carbon (α carbon) in organic molecules refers to the first carbon atom that attaches to a functional group, such as a carbonyl. The second carbon atom is called the beta carbon, and the system continues naming in alphabetical order with Greek letters. The nomenclature can also be applied to the hydrogen atoms attached to the carbons.