Spencer Reid was born in Las Vegas, Nevada to William Reid (Taylor Nichols), a lawyer, and Diana Reid (Jane Lynch), a former professor of 15th century literature. Diana is also a paranoid schizophrenic, who went off her medication during her pregnancy. Reid is 23 in the pilot episode, having joined the unit when he was 22. His fellow team members almost always introduce him as Dr. Reid. Hotch reveals in the first season that Gideon insists on introducing him as Dr. Reid because Gideon fears that, because of his age, Reid will not be taken seriously as an FBI agent.
History. The only child of William and Diana Reid, Spencer was born in Las Vegas, Nevada in the early Eighties. When he was ten, his father left the family, claiming he could no longer deal with Diana's paranoid schizophrenia. 
Dr. Spencer Reid is a fictional character from the CBS crime drama Criminal Minds, portrayed by Matthew Gray Gubler. Reid is a genius with an IQ of 187 and can read 20,000 words per minute with an eidetic memory. He is the youngest member of the FBI 's Behavioral Analysis Unit, has two BAs and three PhDs, and specializes in statistics and geographic profiling. Reid is 23 in the pilot episode, having joined the unit when he was 22. His fellow team members almost always introduce him as Dr. Reid. Hotch reveals in the first season that Gideon insists on introducing him as Dr. Reid because Gideon fears that, because of his age, Reid will not be taken seriously as an FBI agent.
Dr. Spencer Reid (Matthew Gray Gubler) is the youngest member of BAU on the television series Criminal Minds.. Reid is a genius who graduated from a public high school in Las Vegas at the age of 12. He holds a PhD in Mathematics, Chemistry and Engineering, as well as a Bachelor of Arts in Psychology and Sociology.
Reid turned 24 in the episode  Plain Sight . He also asked JJ out on a date, after being handed tickets to a football game by Jason Gideon, who tells Reid that JJ is a big fan of football. In the following episode, Reid only said that the date was top secret and it was never mentioned again. In  L.D.S.K. Reid on the job. In  Derailed , Reid reveals that he is capable of impressive sleight-of-hand magic tricks, which he uses to trick the deranged hostage-taker. He then shows remarkable insight into the mind of the delusional man, successfully distracting him to protect the hostages.
Criminal Minds. Criminal Minds is an American police procedural television series created by Jeff Davis. It premiered on September 22, 2005, on the broadcast network CBS, and is produced by The Mark Gordon Company, in association with CBS Television Studios and ABC Studios. Criminal Minds is an American police procedural television series created by Jeff Davi
Criminal Minds is set primarily at the FBI 's Behavioral Analysis Unit (BAU) based in Quantico, Virginia, and in accordance with the show's plot, Criminal Minds differs from many procedural dramas by focusing on profiling the criminal, called the unsub or unknown subject, rather than the actual crime itself. Criminal Minds is an American police procedural television series created by Jeff Davis.
Dr. Heidi Bishop is an empath, thought to be an asset to the BAU. She is a long-time friend of Morgan and attracts the attention of Dr. Reid. When a case dredges up events from Heidi's past, Spencer tells the young psychologist about his own, and Heidi finds herself becoming increasingly intrigued by him. Spencer Reid stopped at the mile mark, leaning his head between his knees. He sank into the grass and took his pulse: 172/minute. The mile had taken him approximately 20 minutes. Meanwhile, Morgan was lounging against a tree, arms crossed over his chest.