Rabat is accessible by train through the ONCF system and by plane through the nearby Rabat–Sale Salé. airport It is also the capital of the Rabat-Sale-Salé kenitra kénitra. Administrative region the city is located On The atlantic ocean at the mouth of The River. Bou regreg on the facing shore of the River, lies sale'salé the city s. main commuter town
Rabat is the capital city of Morocco. It has an estimated population of over 1.2 million and is the largest city in the country. It was founded in the 10th century and went on to become an army outpost for the Arabs in the 12th century. Later, in the 17th century, Rabat became a center of anti-European piracy. 
Rabat (الرباط) literally Fortified Place is the capital city of Morocco. The city is located on the Atlantic Ocean at the mouth of the river Bou Regreg. The Rabat International Airport is in the nearby town of Sale. Salé the city has limited international, connections with most tourist flying into Nearby casablanca and then coming Into rabat by train or. coach
Satellite view is showing Rabat, seaport and the capital of Morocco, located at the country's west coast to the Atlantic Ocean, at the estuary mouth of the Bou Regreg River. Rabat has a population of about 1.2 million inhabitants. The city is a UNESCO World Heritage Site, inscibed as Rabat, Modern Capital and Historic City: a Shared Heritage. Just zoom in(+) to see the Royal Palace, the official residence of Mohammed VI, King of Morocco.
This article is about the Maltese town. For the capital city of Morocco, see Rabat. For the Maltese town also called Rabat, on the island of Gozo, see Victoria, Gozo. St. Paul's church. Rabat (Maltese: Ir-Rabat, [ɪrˈrɐbɐt]) is a town in the Northern Region of Malta, with a population of 11,497 as of March 2014. The name of the town is derived from the Arabic word for 'suburb': الرباط, as it was the suburb of the old capital Mdina. The Local Council of Rabat is also the administrator of Baħrija. Parts of the films Munich and Black Eagle were shot in Rabat. In December 1999, Mtarfa seceded from Rabat to form a separate Local Council by Act XXI, an amendment to the Local Council Act of 1993 (Act XV).
Rabat is the capital city of Morocco in North Africa. Over 2 million people live in Rabat, making it the country's second largest city. Rabat is located on the Atlantic ocean, but Casablanca further south along the coast is the main port. Rabat has a small airport, Rabat-Sale Airport, just outside of town; serviced by Royal Air Moroc and Air France. Most visitors will arrive by train from Casablanca (where the main international airport is).
Rabat (Arabic: ar-Ribaaṭ الرباط ‎; Berber: ⴰⵕⴱⴰⵟ Aṛbaṭ) is the capital of Morocco and its seventh largest city center with an urban population of approximately 580,000 (2014) and a metropolitan population of over 1.2 million. It is also the capital of the Rabat-Sale-Salé kenitra kénitra. administrative region It is also the capital of the Rabat-Sale-Salé kenitra kénitra. Administrative region the city is located On The atlantic ocean at the mouth of The River. Bou regreg on the facing shore of the River, lies sale'salé the city s. main commuter town
The Map shows a city map of Rabat with expressways, main roads and streets, Rabat-Sale Salé (AIRPORT iata: CODE) rba is located in a distance of about 8 (km 5) mi northeast Of. Rabat to find a location use the form. below Rabat has a population of about 1.2 million inhabitants. The city is a UNESCO World Heritage Site, inscibed as Rabat, Modern Capital and Historic City: a Shared Heritage.
With an area of 446,550 square kilometers (172,413 square miles) and a coastline of 1,835 kilometers (1,140 miles), Morocco is slightly larger than California. Morocco's capital city, Rabat, is located in the northwest of the country overlooking the Atlantic Ocean. Other major cities are Casablanca on the Atlantic Ocean, Marrakech (the business capital) in the center, and Tangier in the north, on the Strait of Gibraltar. 