Suprarenal gland (adrenal gland). The suprarenal gland (adrenal gland) is located at the top of each kidney; therefore each person has two suprarenal glands. The suprarenal glands are divided into two parts. The outer portion of the gland is called the adrenal cortex. The adrenal cortex is responsible for creating three different types of hormones: mineralocorticoids which conserve sodium in the body, glucocorticoids which increase blood glucose levels, and gonadocorticoids which regulate sex hormones such as estrogen. 
1 The adrenal cortex—the outer part of the gland—produces hormones that are vital to life, such as cortisol (which helps regulate metabolism and helps your body respond to stress) and aldosterone (which helps control blood pressure). When you think of the adrenal glands (also known as suprarenal glands), stress might come to mind. And rightly so—the adrenal glands are arguably best known for secreting the hormone adrenaline, which rapidly prepares your body to spring into action in a stressful situation.
These are produced within the inside portion of the adrenal glands, called the medulla. These hormones help to regulate your reaction to stress. Cortisol also helps regulate your metabolism, sugar levels, and blood pressure. The adrenal glands are controlled by the pituitary gland, another part of the endocrine system. Located in the head, this is the main controller of endocrine glands. Abnormal signals can disrupt the amount of hormones the pituitary gland tells the adrenal glands to produce.
The adrenal glands have two layers: the cortex and the medulla. The adrenal gland is like a peanut butter sandwich where the peanut butter is the medulla and the cortex is the bread. Each layer in this sandwich makes different hormones. 
The cortex is located on the outer layer of the adrenal gland and makes a number of different hormones that help control the heart, kidneys, GI tract, bones, genitalia, and immune system. These hormones control carbohydrate metabolism, muscular integrity, hemodynamic changes, and sexual maturity. 
The adrenal glands (also known as suprarenal glands) are endocrine glands that produce a variety of hormones including adrenaline and the steroids aldosterone and cortisol. They are found above the kidneys and consist of a series of layers with different structure and functions. Each gland has an outer cortex which produces steroid hormones and an inner medulla. The adrenal cortex itself is divided into three zones: zona glomerulosa, the zona fasciculata and the zona reticularis. The adrenal cortex produces a class of steroid hormones called corticosteroids, named according to their effects
Your Adrenal Glands. The adrenal glands are orange-colored endocrine glands which are located on the top of both kidneys. The adrenal glands are triangular shaped and measure about one-half inch in height and 3 inches in length. Each gland consists of a medulla (the center of the gland) which is surrounded by the cortex. The indications for surgical removal of the adrenal gland are relatively straightforward and include, but are not limited to the following: 1  Tumors of the adrenal cortex which overproduce hormones. 2  One such tumor is shown in the picture...it is the round yellow mass located within the triangular adrenal gland.