For example, if you require 2,000 calories per day for healthy weight maintenance you should consume 28 grams of fiber each day, and if you need 3,000 calories you should eat 42 grams of fiber every day. It is ideal to get your fiber from a well-balanced diet containing plenty of fiber-rich foods. Foods high in fiber include whole grains, legumes, fruits, vegetables, nuts and seeds. If you’re constipated or unable to meet your fiber requirements from food, ask your doctor about taking a fiber supplement made from psyllium husks or seeds.
For example, eat 38 grams of fiber each day if you’re a man ages 19 to 50, 30 grams per day if you’re a man age 50 or older, 25 grams if you’re a woman ages 19 to 50, 21 grams if you’re a woman age 50 or older, 28 grams if you’re pregnant and at least 29 grams of fiber each day if you’re breastfeeding. Foods high in fiber include whole grains, legumes, fruits, vegetables, nuts and seeds. If you’re constipated or unable to meet your fiber requirements from food, ask your doctor about taking a fiber supplement made from psyllium husks or seeds.
The average adult only eats 15 grams of fiber per day. Women need 25 grams of fiber per day, and men need 38 grams per day, according to the Institute of Medicine. Eating more plant foods -- vegetables, beans, fruit, whole grains, and nuts -- is the best way and is one of the major recommendations from the U.S. government's 2010 Dietary Guidelines.
Adequate intake levels for total fiber are 21 grams per day for women ages 50 and older, 25 grams for women younger than age 50, 30 grams for men ages 50 and older and 38 grams of fiber each day for men younger than age 50. The TLC diet calls for you to consume 10 to 25 grams of soluble fiber each day to reduce your LDL cholesterol. Soluble fiber is found in psyllium seeds, legumes, fruits, some vegetables, barley and oats. Nuts and seeds are also rich in soluble fiber.
The National Fiber Council recommends an average of 32 grams of fiber per day for a healthy body. To calculate how much fiber you need based on your age and gender, and receive a customized meal plan just for you, click on the fiber calculator below. Tip: Remember to increase your fiber intake gradually. 
For children ages 3 to 5 years of age, the average fiber intake is about 11 grams per day. For children 6 to 11 years the average fiber intake is about 13 grams per day. That is 50% less than what they need! Kids do not get the needed amounts of fruit, vegetables and whole grains, which leads to poor fiber intake.
A: The amount you need is tied to the number of calories you eat in a day. For healthy adults, the USDA recommends 14 grams of fiber for every 1,000 calories consumed. So a person eating 2,000 calories a day should aim to get 28 grams of fiber daily. A: Soluble and insoluble fiber can be found in different foods, and also in different parts of the same food. Insoluble fiber tends to be found in the peels and husks of plant foods, and soluble fiber is found in the fleshy interior.
So just how much fiber do you need? The national fiber recommendations are 30 to 38 grams a day for men and 25 grams a day for women between 18 and 50 years old, and 21 grams a day if a woman is 51 and older. Another general guideline is to get 14 grams of fiber for every 1,000 calories in your diet. If you're ready to increase the amount of fiber in your diet, that's a positive step. A popular TV commercial shows a woman eating broccoli and other fiber-rich foods throughout the day, depicting how difficult it seems to get the recommended daily levels of fiber. In truth, a lot of people just don’t bother.
The amount of fiber you need on a daily basis depends on your age and gender. The standard recommendation for fiber consumption suggests that you should consume a minimum of 25 grams of fiber per day. If you consume fiber in the 50 grams per day range, then some health issues may arise. It is possible to experience increased flatulence and diarrhea. However, these symptoms do not characterize all high fiber diets.