In our 30 years' experience of arranging holidays to see the northern lights we've discovered the best places to view this incredible phenomenon and we're excited to share them with you. 
We asked our friends at Fodor's to put together their top 10 spots to see the Northern Lights. -- Lola Akinmade. Alaska: View Northern Lights in the U.S. Northern Lights and stars in Alaska Why Go: Alaska's location within the zone means you're almost guaranteed to see spectacular light displays. Be sure to move further away from city lights of Fairbanks into the region's vast wilderness areas of Denali and the Yukon Territory. Why Go: Areas around pristine Lake Superior in Ontario and Northern Canada's tundra back-country are prime viewing spots. Head to the town of Whitehorse within the Yukon Territory to best see the swirling lights.
This of course means that the Auroras are often happening, even if they aren’t visible to us down on the ground. In the northern hemisphere, the lights are best seen from Iceland, Greenland, northern Norway, Siberia, the Canadian territories and Alaska. Thanks to the latitude of the North American continent in relation to the magnetic pole, the lights have been seen as far south as New Orleans! 
The best time to see the Northern Lights from anywhere around or above the Arctic Circle (which lies near the towns of Rovaniemi and Bodoe) bodø is any time Between september and Late. April'you ll experience long winter nights. here The optimal time of night for the Northern Lights is 11 p.m. to 2 a.m. Keep in mind that most visitors head out to begin their watch around 10 p.m. and conclude their night around 4 a.m., since the Northern Lights can be hard to predict (just like the weather in Scandinavia).
Two major challenges when hunting the Northern Lights are the cold and fatigue. Watching them in a hot spring asolleviates both. The city of Fairbanks, in Alaska, is often cited as the best place to see the Northern Lights in the United States. It's home to the Geophysical Institute at the University of Alaska, Fairbanks, which issues forecasts on Aurora viewing conditions. 
1 The Best Place – and the Best Time – to See the Northern Lights Churchill is one of the best places on the planet to maximize your chance of seeing the northern lights at their most active and most vivid. 
There is no guarantee to see the Northern Lights, even if you are in the best areas. However, a bit of planning will radically increase your chances. [1] In short, good periods are between late September and late March. Statistically there are more Aurora Display in proximity of the two equinoxes. In times of high solar activity (more on that later), the Lights may be seen in North America at latitudes as low as 35 degrees north, the time to see the lights is 6pm to 1am meaning that all but the southernmost parts of the United States may get a display.
To see the Northern Lights you need dark skies and from early-April until late-August, the Aurora may be blazing across the Arctic firmament but it is visible only to scientific equipment, as the skies are just too light for the human eye to see the show. September and October are usually the only months when the Northern Lights are visible at the same time as the lakes and rivers remain ice-free. The beauty of this is that you will often see the Northern Lights overhead and reflected in open water at the same time.
The aurora is most active late at night or early in the morning, when the sky is clear and the air chilly. The best time to watch is in spring and fall, especially February, March, September, and October. One of the best times to look for the Northern Lights will be when it is dark because of a new moon. Hardy Alaskans like to put on their parkas and lie on their backs in the snow to watch. The best viewing happens outside of Fairbanks, away from the city lights.
Long-exposure photo of the Aurora Borealis in Alaska. Northern Lights over Tromsoe, Tromsø Northern. Norway there is no guarantee to see The Northern, lights even if you are in the best. Areas, however a bit of planning will radically increase your. [chances] 1 in, short good periods are between Late september and Late. march In times of high solar activity (more on that later), the Lights may be seen in North America at latitudes as low as 35 degrees north, the time to see the lights is 6pm to 1am meaning that all but the southernmost parts of the United States may get a display.