Anytime you see the term net before pay, income, etc, it's the balance of money earned after taxes are deducted. The term gross is the balance of money earned before taxes a … nd other deductions, such IRA's, Insurance Plans, and other premiums and cost
Many Of Us having confusion regarding Salary, Net Salary, Gross, Cost to Company they are same or different. I Hope this may help you in clearing you doubts. I shall try to cover what makes the salary? What is the difference between Salary, Net Salary, Gross Salary, Cost to Company.
Salary includes the basic amount, dearness allowance, house rent allowance and other allowances. On the other hand, the components of a gross salary includes basic pay, dearness allowance, house rent allowance, city compensatory allowance, and other emoluments.
Salary, Net Salary, Gross Salary, Cost to Company are they same or different. For most people it is plain confusion especially when one gets a new job. The excitement of getting first job is punctured on getting the first pay.
Greetings, I would like to know the difference between the Base and Basic Salary. And what will be the components of the same. Regards, Asna.....
There are several differences between gross salary and basic  salary. Basic salary is the agreed upon rate of pay discussed  between employer and employee which does not inc … lude overtime or  any other forms of extra compensation.
Best Answer: Basic Salary is the Salary is fixed without any allowances. The annual increment is to the basic salary and the basic salary changes on every promotion. Gross Salary is with all allowance like Dearness Allowance, HRA, Vehicle allowance etc.
There are several differences between gross salary and basic salary. Basic salary is the agreed upon rate of pay discussed between employer and employee which does not include overtime or any other forms of extra compensation.
#Basic Salary: As the name suggests, this forms the very basis of salary. This is the core of salary, and many other components may be calculated based on this amount. It usually depends on one s grade within the company s salary structure. It is a fixed part of one s compensation
Gross salary-total pay before any taxes have been taken out. Net salary-take home pay, after taxes have been taken out. Base is the minimum amount you will be paid--no commissions, bonuses, dividends. Gross is everything you're paid, including dividends, bonuses, and commissions.