You can use Membership Rewards ® points for all or part of your flight, vacation or cruise booking and for hotels booked and paid in advance when booking through American Express Travel. To use Pay with Points, you must charge your purchase through American Express Travel to a Membership Rewards® program-enrolled American Express ® Card. Eligible purchases exclude car reservations, non-prepaid hotels, and Fine Hotels & Resorts and The Hotel Collection bookings.
Using Points for Statement Credits. You can redeem your Membership Rewards points directly for a statement credit on your card account. You can use points in 20,000-point increments to get a $100 credit on your card account. This, once again, is not the best ratio for your points, as 1 point is only worth 1/2 a penny in this scenario. When you use Pay with Points, your linked card account will be charged for your purchase, American Express will deduct points from your program account, and then American Express will apply an accompanying credit to
1 You get double the stars and or eCoins if you're a Premium Member. 2  If one of your short descriptions are on the Comet, you get another medal! 3  You can also go to someone else's sticker party too. 4  If you're desperate for stickers, hold a sticker party in your Fantage room. 1 If one of your short descriptions are on the Comet, you get another medal! 2  You can also go to someone else's sticker party too. 3  If you're desperate for stickers, hold a sticker party in your Fantage room. 4  Some of the steps require that you are a premium member. 5  It's better if you become a Premium Member on Fantage.
1 The Head of Household will manage all of the points in their Family Pooling account. 2  Any adult can start a Family Pooling account and be the Head of Household. 3  You just have to be a TrueBlue member to get started. 4  An adult is anyone over the age of 21. 1 An adult is anyone over the age of 21. 2  A child is anyone under 21. 3  Upon accepting an invitation to begin pooling, each family member will select how many points to contribute upfront (with zero transfer fees) and the percentage of points they want to contribute on an ongoing basis per transaction.
The requirements are to be a Premium Member or a regular member for at least 30 days, and you have to be a model citizen on Fantage. You also earn a medal if you write at least 15 short descriptions on events on Fantage. You can only write 3 a day though. 1 If one of your short descriptions are on the Comet, you get another medal! 2  You can also go to someone else's sticker party too. 3  If you're desperate for stickers, hold a sticker party in your Fantage room. 4  Some of the steps require that you are a premium member. 5  It's better if you become a Premium Member on Fantage.
Limousine Program. Valid for new bookings made through American Express Platinum or Centurion Travel Service. To get two extra Membership Rewards points on each dollar you spend, you must charge your limousine to your American Express Platinum or Centurion Card enrolled in the Membership Rewards program. Card Member must travel on itinerary booked. To use Pay with Points, you must charge your purchase through American Express Travel to a Membership Rewards® program-enrolled American Express ® Card. Eligible purchases exclude car reservations, non-prepaid hotels, and Fine Hotels & Resorts and The Hotel Collection bookings.
1 At a minimum, there must be 2 individuals in a Family Pooling account. 2  The Head of Household will manage all of the points in their Family Pooling account. 3  Any adult can start a Family Pooling account and be the Head of Household. 4  You just have to be a TrueBlue member to get started. 1 An adult is anyone over the age of 21. 2  A child is anyone under 21. 3  Upon accepting an invitation to begin pooling, each family member will select how many points to contribute upfront (with zero transfer fees) and the percentage of points they want to contribute on an ongoing basis per transaction.
Members who have purchased a Mint fare can earn an extra three (3) bonus points per dollar for a total of six (6) points per dollar, if those JetBlue operated flights are booked directly on www.jetblue.com. TrueBlue Mosaic members will earn an additional three (3) TrueBlue points per dollar spent. Points will be earned on the base fare of the flight only. Points will not be earned on government taxes/fees or other fees or charges (e.g., travel insurance, change/cancel fees, etc.). All TrueBlue points are subject to the TrueBlue program Terms and Conditions. Terms & Conditions. 1 All seats on JetBlue flights are available for booking using TrueBlue points. Even More® Space seats are also available for the applicable extra fee. 2 Members will earn three (3) points per dollar spent on any individual flight operated by JetBlue.