* FUNGI-a kingdom mostly made up of non-green, eukaryotic organisms that have no means of movement, reproduce by using spores, and get food by breaking down substances in their surroundings and absorbing the nutrients. 
Fungi. The fungi kingdom (Fungi in Latin) is made up of multicellular organisms as well as some single-celled organisms. Members of the fungi kingdom reproduce by spores and have cell walls surrounding their cells, similar to plants but with the cell walls being made of different materials. All species in the animal kingdom are also multicellular and the cells of the species in this kingdom have a nucleus but no chloroplasts or cell wall. Examples of species within the animal kingdom would include all mammals, reptiles, birds, insects, and more. 1  The Animal Kingdom. The animal kingdom (Animalia in Latin) is the largest of all of the six kingdoms and is made up or more than one million species. Members of the animal kingdom are characterized by their ability to obtain energy from eating food.
There are six kingdoms including plants, animals, fungi, protists, archaebacteria, and eubacteria. Animal Kingdom. The animal kingdom (Animalia in Latin) is the largest of all of the six kingdoms and is made up or more than one million species. Members of the animal kingdom are characterized by their ability to obtain energy from eating food. All species in the animal kingdom are also multicellular and the cells of the species in this kingdom have a nucleus but no chloroplasts or cell wall. Examples of species within the animal kingdom would include all mammals, reptiles, birds, insects, and more. 1  The
Protists. Protists are single and multicellular organisms that are plant-like, animal-like and fungi-like. They evolved from bacteria and represent the intermediate step in the evolution of the other three kingdoms. There are 12 phyla in this kingdom, most of which live in water. Eubacteria. Eubacteria, the second group of Monerans, make up their own Kingdom.They live in a wide variety of habitats and obtain their energy needs in a variety of ways. The main phylum are orgainzed by how they obtain energy. 1. Heterotrophs: This type of bacteria is found just about everywhere.
Eubacteria. Eubacteria, the second group of Monerans, make up their own Kingdom. They live in a wide variety of habitats and obtain their energy needs in a variety of ways. The main phylum are orgainzed by how they obtain energy. 1. Heterotrophs: This type of bacteria is found just about everywhere.
Confidence votes 4. sugar (usually glucose) is broken into 3 carbon sugars which are oxidized to make carbon dioxide. The remaining atoms form 2 pyruvate molecules per every one glucose molecule. This process is called glycolysis and produces a net gain of 2 ATP's (ATP=energy). Photosynthesis, which is the process of using the energy of sunlight to power the production of sugar (glucose), takes place in the chloroplast of the plant cell. 10 people found this useful. Edit.
Kingdom Fungi. The kingdom Fungi is made up of a large group of eukaryotic organisms. These eukaryotes include microorganisms such as molds and yeasts, as well as mushrooms. The original classification of fungi by Linnaeus placed this group within the kingdom Plantae. Fungi are heterotrophic organisms that are mostly immobile. In time, the prokaryotes of the kingdom Monera were separated into the kingdom Archaea and the kingdom Bacteria. Kingdom Animalia. The kingdom Animalia consists of multicellular, eukaryotic organisms. The eukaryotic cells that make up these individuals have a membrane-bound nucleus and other membrane-bound organelles. Animal cells differ from those of plants and fungi because animal cells do not contain a cell wall
5. Plantae -- multicellular, eucaryotic, rigid cell walls, nutrition by photosynthesis (make their own nutrients converting solar energy into chemical energy in the bonds of sugar molecules; autotrophic). Plants are a major food source for many other organisms. 4. Fungi - - multicellular, eucaryotic organisms, nutrition by absorption (heterotrophic), cell walls made of chitin digest externally and absorb nutrients, Also play a major role in global recycling.