Actually, myocardial infarction is the medical term for what many of us call ‘heart attack’. The term ‘Myocardial Infarction’ already says much about what the disease is. Myocardial is derived from the word, myocardium which refers to the heart muscle. The term infarction refers to the condition where tissue dies from oxygen starvation. Taken together, the term myocardial infarction literally means the death of the tissues of the heart muscle as a result of oxygen deficiency. Myocardial Infarction usually occurs when there is an obstruction in the artery, thereby impeding the proper flow of blood. 
If cardiac ischemia lasts too long, the starved heart tissue dies. This is a heart attack, otherwise known as a myocardial infarction -- literally, death of heart muscle.. Most heart attacks occur during several hours -- so never wait to seek help if you think a heart attack is beginning. In some cases there are no symptoms at all, but most heart attacks produce some chest pain. Other signs of a heart attack include shortness of breath, dizziness, faintness, or nausea.
What is hydro cardio myopathy. http://www.chacha.com/question/what-is-hydro-cardio-myopathy. Cardiomyopathy, which literally means heart muscle disease, is the deterioration of the function of the myocardium for any reason. People with cardiomyopathy are often at risk of arrhythmia or sudden cardiac death or both. ChaCha! [ Source: http://www.chacha.com/question/what-is-hydro-cardio-myopathy ]. Health related question in topics Conditions Illness .We found some answers as below for this question What is hydro cardio myopathy,you can compare them. Cardiomyopathy, which literally means heart muscle disease, is the deterioration of the function of the myocardium for any reason.
Acute coronary syndromes. A term that refers to situations where the blood-supply to the heart muscle is suddenly blocked, resulting in heart attacks and unstable angina. Angina. Angina pectoris, commonly known as angina, is chest pain due to a lack of blood to the heart muscle. All of which affect the heart’s ability to work normally. Coronary heart disease. A disease where one or more of the arteries supplying blood to the heart muscle becomes blocked. Blockage of these arteries means that some of the heart muscle becomes deprived of oxygen, which results in angina or a heart attack. Heart failure. Heart failure is a condition where the heart is not pumping enough blood to meet the needs of the body
Myocardial infarction happens when no enough oxygen is coming to the myocytes(muscle cells of the heart) via the coronary artery(which supplies the heart itself with blood). MI literally means heart tissue death. and the rest of the heart has to work harder to pick up the slack of the dead part.
Myocardial infarction: A heart attack. Abbreviated MI. The term myocardial infarction focuses on the myocardium (the heart muscle) and the changes that occur in it due to the sudden deprivation of circulating blood. The main change is necrosis (death) of myocardial tissue. The word infarction comes from the Latin infarcire meaning to plug up or cram.. 
Understanding Heart Attacks. As a large, muscular pump, the heart relies on a constant supply of oxygen-rich blood to function. Without a blood supply, heart muscle begins to die. This is exactly what happens during a heart attack. Myocardial infarction, the medical term for heart attack, literally means heart tissue damage or death.. Heart attacks most commonly occur when one or more of the coronary arteries — a network of blood vessels that supply blood to the heart — become blocked. Heart muscle becomes starved for oxygen and nutrients. 