6. Edcon today reported financial and operating results for the first quarter ended 27 June 2015, announcing that profitability at both the EBITDA and gross profit level has again increased. Appointment of Edcon CEO. Edcon takes pleasure in announcing the appointment of Bernard (“Bernie”) Brookes as Chief Executive Officer and a member of the Board of Edcon Holdings Limited and Edcon Limited with effect from 30 September 2015.
Edcon Limited is a retail company based in Johannesburg, South Africa. Its subsidiaries include Edgars, a department store with 37 branches. Since then, the Company has grown to ten retail brands trading in over 1000 stores in South Africa, Botswana, Namibia, Swaziland, Lesotho and Zimbabwe. Edcon's retail business has, through recent acquisitions, added top stationery and houseware brands as well as general merchandise to its CFT portfolio.
Edcon. A large company originating from South Africa who started out in the textile and retail industry, but later started specializing in satanism and various other evil activities.
Edcon First Quarter 2016 Results. Edcon today reported financial and operating results for the first quarter ended 27 June 2015, announcing that profitability at both the EBITDA and gross profit level has again increased. Appointment of Edcon CEO. Edcon takes pleasure in announcing the appointment of Bernard (“Bernie”) Brookes as Chief Executive Officer and a member of the Board of Edcon Holdings Limited and Edcon Limited with effect from 30 September 2015.
Edgars/Edcon: Fashion disaster. WALK through the doors of Edgars’ elephantine flagship store in Johannesburg’s upmarket Melrose Arch precinct, and you’re likely to see the saleslady reapplying her lipstick. That may not seem unusual: her job, after all, is to be primped and primed. This is because Edgars’ owner — the 86-year-old Edcon, which also owns CNA, Boardmans and Jet among other iconic brands — stands just as forlorn as that Melrose Arch store, which seems as gleaming and untouched as when it opened its doors seven years ago.
Established in 1929, Edcon is South Africa’s largest footwear and clothing retailer. Edcon transacts through a line of retail formats and trades in 1,173 stores under retail brands in South Africa, Botswana, Namibia, Swaziland, Lesotho, Mozambique and Zambia. On the other hand, Edcon is a company that is held in high esteem and I find it difficult to believe that all the stores are run this way, but in the same breath I find it disturbing that people are allowed to tarnish the brand this way.
Free Email Newsletter: Subscribe. Retailer Edcon, has bemoaned a 14.7% rise in “other operating costs”, primarily due to IT costs which contributed towards an overall loss of R1.012 billion in results from continuing operations in the 26 weeks ended September 2012. 
Currently we employ two project managers who have a combined 24 years with the company. We have seven full time superintendents with 87 combined years, an equipment/warehouse manager with 13 years, and an office manager with 20 years. We are a general contractor with a primary focus on educational facilities. In our first twenty years of business we have built or renovated 87 schools. In addition to schools, we have built or renovated 56 other buildings, ranging anywhere from churches to fire stations to recreation centers
History [edit]. Edcon (Pty) Ltd is the leading clothing, footwear and textiles (CFT) retailing group in South Africa trading through a range of retail formats. Since then, the Company has grown to ten retail brands trading in over 1000 stores in South Africa, Botswana, Namibia, Swaziland, Lesotho and Zimbabwe. Edcon's retail business has, through recent acquisitions, added top stationery and houseware brands as well as general merchandise to its CFT portfolio.
Join LinkedIn to get the latest news, insights, and opportunities from over 3 million companies. Edcon is the largest clothing and footwear retailer in Southern africa. Edcon’s proud history pre-dates the start of the second world war with the opening of the first Edgars store in Joubert Street, Johannesburg in 1929. Edgars was listed in 1946 and was again delisted in 2007 when shareholders voted in favour of an offer from Bain Capital. 