If every living cell had an equal chance of becoming cancerous, whales and elephants should have a greater risk of developing cancer than do humans or mice. But across species, the occurrence of cancer does not show a correlation with body mass. 
And then there are the mammals who do not get cancer at all, the anti-Franks, those super-dachshunds. The ones Dr. Harold E. Varmus, the former head of the National Cancer Institute, told The New York Times last spring he wants to know more about. Huge mammals like whales and elephants have many more cells than humans do, which should make them much more prone to cancer. A whale has 1,000 times more cells than humans, which should mark it for cancer right from birth.
CHICAGO (AP) - Cancer is much less common in elephants than in humans, even though the big beasts' bodies have many more cells. That's a paradox known among scientists, and now researchers think they may have an explanation-one they say might someday lead to new ways to protect people from cancer. That refers to the fact that large animals including elephants and whales, have comparatively low cancer rates even though they have many more cells than smaller species. Cancer involves uncontrolled cell growth.
By all logical reasoning, elephants should be developing a tremendous amount of cancer, and in fact, should be extinct by now due to such a high risk for cancer, Schiffman said in a statement. We think that making more p53 is nature's way of keeping this species alive.. 
Photo by Tony Karumba/AFP/Getty Images. Being an elephant is risky business. I'm not talking about poaching, habitat loss, or fighting with males in musth —I'm talking about the simple fact of living. Every time an elephant cell divides, it runs the risk of going haywire and developing into an out-of-control tumor. Since elephants have 100 times the number of cells that human beings do, they should have 100 times the risk of getting cancer. But elephants have one-upped us. For the JAMA study, researchers first compared cancer rates across the animal kingdom to find out that elephants were remarkably cancer-free given their size. (Other animals fared well, too.
Cancer is less prevalent in elephants than in humans, in part because the giant animals have more copies of a gene that suppresses tumor growth, a new study finds. Understanding how this gene evolved and works in elephants may help researchers develop ways to treat human cancer patients, the researchers said. 
advertisement. Cancer is much less common in elephants than in humans, even though the big beasts' bodies have many more cells. Now researchers think they may have an explanation — one they say might someday lead to new ways to protect people from cancer. Elephants' cells contain 40 copies of a major cancer-suppressing gene called p53, two teams of scientists report. Humans have just two-one from each parent. The gene helps damaged cells repair themselves or self-destruct when exposed to cancer-causing substance
The mechanisms for cancer resistance in elephants has baffled scientists for decades, but a new study in the Journal of the American Medical Association may have identified a genetic explanation for their lower-than-expected rate of cancer. Humans have 1 copy of TP53 (a tumor suppressor gene that is mutated in the majority of human cancers), but African elephants have at least 20 copies. Patients with LFS have only 1 functioning TP53 allele and may have a 90–100% cancer risk over their lifetime.
Cancer is the unregulated division of cells. The more cells an animal has, the more likely any one of those cells is to go rogue, turning into a tumor. Huge mammals like whales and elephants have many more cells than humans do, which should make them much more prone to cancer. A whale has 1,000 times more cells than humans, which should mark it for cancer right from birth. But for some reason, the whale evades that fate better than we do
Cancer is a disease of aging, and elephants can live up to 70 years. Over the course of a life that long, elephants grow a lot — burgeoning from 200-pound babies to 12,000-pound giants. All that growth involves cell division, a process that provides opportunities for potentially lethal genetic mistakes. According to everything we know about cancer, elephants should be hit hard by the disease. Over the course of a life that long, elephants grow a lot –