Characteristics [edit]. The spectacled caiman is a small to mid-sized crocodilian. Males of the species are generally 1.8 to 2 m (5.9 to 6.6 ft), while females are smaller, usually around 1.2–1.4 m (3.9–4.6 ft). The body mass of most adults is between 7 and 40 kg (15 and 88 lb). The spectacled caiman (Caiman crocodilus), also known as the white caiman or common caiman, is a crocodilian reptile found in much of Central and South America.
The black caiman (Melanosuchus niger) is a large crocodilian and, along with the American alligator, is one of the biggest extant members of the family Alligatoridae and order Crocodilia. The head is large and heavy; an advantage in catching larger prey. The black caiman is the largest predator in the Amazon ecosystem, preying on a variety of fish, reptiles, birds and mammals. They are generalists and apex predators, potentially capable of taking any animal within its range, including other predators.
Attacks on humans are very rare, but do occur. Spectacled Caiman (Caiman crocodilus). In the smaller rivers, backwater bays and jungle ponds, the Spectacled Caiman is king of the jungle. These smaller crocodilians reach a maximum of about eight feet (2.5 m). Caimans eat frogs, fish, birds and small mammals
Habitat: The spectacled caiman has the widest distribution of any species in the Aligatoridae family and can be found in Brazil, Colombia, Costa Rica, Ecuador, El Salvador, French Guiana, Guatemala, Honduras, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Peru, Surinam, Tobago, Trinidad and Venezuela. Diet: These reptiles eat just about anything they can get their large, strong jaws around, including birds, fish, amphibians, insects and small mammals. As juveniles, spectacled caimans eat aquatic insects, small fish, crustaceans and mollusks.
The spectacled caiman is a small to mid-sized crocodilian. Males of the species are generally 1.8 to 2 m (5.9 to 6.6 ft), while females are smaller, usually around 1.2–1.4 m (3.9–4.6 ft). The spectacled caiman (Caiman crocodilus), also known as the white caiman or common caiman, is a crocodilian reptile found in much of Central and South America.
Alligators, caimans and crocodiles are hunted for their skin, which is used for shoes, handbags, belts and wallets. Crocs are often killed simply because they are large and fierce looking, making many species threatened or endangered. The spectacled caiman is endangered in many countries, including El Salvador. Diet: These reptiles eat just about anything they can get their large, strong jaws around, including birds, fish, amphibians, insects and small mammals. As juveniles, spectacled caimans eat aquatic insects, small fish, crustaceans and mollusks.
Learn more about this article. Caiman crocodilus, the spectacled, common, or brown caiman, is a crocodilian native to northern South America, Central America, and certain parts of the Caribbean. 
In addition to the American alligator, the spectacled caiman (Caiman crocodilus) and the American crocodile (Crocodylus acutus) also occur in Florida. The family Alligatoridae includes five species of caimans, which are native to Central and South America. 