Forests where a large number of flora and fauna species are found are termed as 'biodiversity hot spots '. The range of different life forms like bacteria, fungi, ferns, flowe … ring plants, nematodes, insects, birds, reptiles and so on are present in forests. There are heavy rains during at least part of the year, and a dense canopy of trees traps a lot of moistur … e in the air below. The rainforests are in tropical regions where the average temperature (and therefore the relative humidity) is comparatively high. It rains a lot, in a forest. 45 people found this useful.
Temperate rainforests are found in areas such as the Pacific North West of North America; parts of Europe including parts of the British Isles and Norway; East Asia, including Southern China, Japan and Korea; and the South West of South America. Tropical rainforests are found in the world's monsoon trough, which is also known as the intertropical convergence zone. This is roughly located between the Tropic of Cancer and the Tropic of Capricorn, 22 ° degrees north and south of the equator.
Tropical rainforest's are called that because they are between the Tropic of Cancer and the Tropic of Capricorn. http://www.solsticebahamas.com/images/Tropic.jpg. There are heavy rains during at least part of the year, and a dense canopy of trees traps a lot of moistur … e in the air below. The rainforests are in tropical regions where the average temperature (and therefore the relative humidity) is comparatively high. It rains a lot, in a forest. 45 people found this useful.
Tropical rainforests are home to more than half of the world's ten million species of plants, animals and insects. Deforestation, loss of habitat and pollution of the atmosphere have already led to the disappearance of many species and more are seriously endangered. Tropical rainforests are found in the world's monsoon trough, which is also known as the intertropical convergence zone. This is roughly located between the Tropic of Cancer and the Tropic of Capricorn, 22 ° degrees north and south of the equator.
rainforests are called biodiversity hotspots because of the big amount of flora and fauna it has. There are heavy rains during at least part of the year, and a dense canopy of trees traps a lot of moistur … e in the air below. The rainforests are in tropical regions where the average temperature (and therefore the relative humidity) is comparatively high. It rains a lot, in a forest. 45 people found this useful.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Forests where a large number of flora and fauna species are found are termed as 'biodiversity hot spots '. The range of different life forms like bacteria, fungi, ferns, flowering plants, nematodes, insects, birds, reptiles and so on are present in forests. Bio Diversity in Rain Forests Tropic rain forests have a variation of life forms within the given ecosystems because the environment changes dependant on the weather eg; summe … r, spring, winter, autumn. Different animals and plants suit different seasons, so each season a different species of organism is produced.
In tropical rainforests, the canopy trees – the largest trees of the rainforest – release about 760 litres of water each year. Consequently, rainforests play a vital role in regulating rainfall and keeping the water balance. The rainforests of the world cover less than 6 per cent of the earth’s surface, yet play a critical role in the survival of man on this planet. The world’s rainforests are home to half of all the planet’s living animal and plant species. And, yet these biodiversity hotspots cover only six per cent of the earth’s surfa
Biodiversity hotspots. Rainforests are the Earth’s oldest living ecosystem. Today, they contain the most concentrated areas of biodiversity. More than two-thirds of the world’s plant species live in tropical rainforests.An area of the rainforest the size of two football fields may have more than 400 species of trees. The rainforests of the world cover less than 6 per cent of the earth’s surface, yet play a critical role in the survival of man on this planet. The world’s rainforests are home to half of all the planet’s living animal and plant species. And, yet these biodiversity hotspots cover only six per cent of the earth’s surface
Rainforests. There are actually two types of rainforest; those found in tropical regions and those found in temperate regions, but both types need an annual rainfall of between 69 and 78 inches (1750 - 2000mm). Tropical rainforests are found in the world's monsoon trough, which is also known as the intertropical convergence zone. This is roughly located between the Tropic of Cancer and the Tropic of Capricorn, 22 ° degrees north and south of the equator.