Like pork ribs, they need long, slow cooking to tenderize the meat. Grill at 225 degrees F in the smoker over an indirect heat, and be prepared to set aside up to 8 hours for a large rack in order to bring the internal temperature up to 165 degrees F and break down the tough connective tissues. Taking care to start grilling with the rib rack at room temperature, grill baby backs low and slow at 225 degrees F for 3 to 4 hours. The more ribs in the smoker, the longer the cooking time.
Transfer ribs to platter, discard liquid. Preheat grill to medium. Add ribs and baste with BBQ sauce, turning often and basting until sauce has adhered and meat is tender, about 10 to 15 minutes. *For a great side-rib recipe, try the Chatelaine’s Memphis-Style pork side ribs. 4. The best way to grill uncooked ribs The key is to keep the heat low and cook the ribs slow. How to cook ribs on the grill.Photo, John Cullen. Long weekends, sunny days and great company are factors that already make grilled food taste amazing without any effort on the chef’s part, but there are few methods of cooking that bring out more pride and swagger than grilling.
1 Grill your ribs for 3 hours bone-side down. 2  Wrap them in foil and grill, bone-side up, for 30 to 60 minutes. 3  Same as with baby backs, you can an extra special touch here by pouring a cup of apple cider or juice into the foil packet. 4  Unwrap them and grill for 30 more minutes bone-side down. Before we get into how long you should grill your ribs there's one important thing to keep in mind: while dry spice rubs should be applied before you start to cook, sauces should not be applied until the last 20 minutes of cooking at the earliest.
This cuts down grilling time by 80%. If the ribs are raw you will have to grill them for about 45 min to an hour depending on how hot the grill is and if there is a cover on the grill. It will cook sooner if there is a lid to cover them to keep in the heat to help with the cooking. Make sure you turn the ribs often to insure even cooking. Take the ribs out of the fridge about 30 minutes before you plan to cook them, so they'll reach room temperature. About an hour before you're ready to cook, soak a couple wood chunks in water. Heat your charcoal in a chimney starter, then arrange your grill so that all the coals are one side.
If the ribs are raw, about 30 minutes turning every 5-6 minutes on a med-hot grill.   If you want good ribs y … ou will cook them low and slow with indirect heat of about 250-300 for about 3-5 hours. Once they start to pull back from the edge of the bone and can be pulled apart they are done. Take the ribs out of the fridge about 30 minutes before you plan to cook them, so they'll reach room temperature. About an hour before you're ready to cook, soak a couple wood chunks in water. Heat your charcoal in a chimney starter, then arrange your grill so that all the coals are one side.
Baby Back Ribs. Smaller but more succulent, baby back ribs represent the apogee of grilling. Taking care to start grilling with the rib rack at room temperature, grill baby backs low and slow at 225 degrees F for 3 to 4 hours. The more ribs in the smoker, the longer the cooking time. To achieve this heat, let one side of the grill come to 350 degrees F and place the rib racks on the unlit side
Place coals around the foil pan until coals are white. Put your rub onto your ribs and place onto oiled grill grate (over the pan of water). The pan of water is to prevent your ribs from drying out. Make sure to close all vents on your charcoal grill after about 10 minutes and only have a cracked lid. Check on your ribs about every 25 minutes. When you check them, baste them with a mixture of beer and 1/2 Tbsp. of rub.
1 Grill the ribs for 2 hours, bone-side down. 2  Wrap them in foil and grill, bone-side up, for 30 minutes. 3  Don't be afraid to add an extra special touch here by pouring a cup of apple cider or juice into the foil packet. 4  Unwrap them and grill for 30 more minutes bone-side down. Before we get into how long you should grill your ribs there's one important thing to keep in mind: while dry spice rubs should be applied before you start to cook, sauces should not be applied until the last 20 minutes of cooking at the earliest.