Genovese basil is a favorite for pesto and other Italian dishes. Genovese basil grows to heights of 24 to 30 inches and produces large 2- to 3-inch leaves. Flavor is strong and spicy, making it a favorite for pesto and other Italian dishes. 
Flowering stops the vegetative growth of the basil plant. Genovese has a reputation for making the best pesto, as well as the best insalata caprese, which is dish consisting of tomato slices topped with mozzarella cheese and fresh basil leaves. Sweet Basil. Sweet basil (Ocimum basilicum) is the most familiar basil, and the most widely grown in the United States. It is considered the basic basil. Medium-green, smooth, shiny leaves have a soft appearance.
The answer is….. Genovese Basil also known as Ocimum basilicum ‘Genovese’ . This variety is grown for its delicious flavor and aroma and used prominently in Italy for Pesto! Many refer to this variety as ‘Sweet’ or ‘Common’ Basil…but it is a ‘Genovese’ Basil through and through. Genovese Basil has a shiny leaf that curls under as the plant gets bigger. This variety will grow about 2 feet tall and should be pinched and used regularly to encourage a bushier plant and discourage seeding.
The flavor that basil imparts to tomato dishes makes it a popular fresh or dried herb in most kitchens. While basil is one of the popular herbs used in Italian cooking, the herb is also used in hair treatments, perfumes and sachets. The oils have been used in medicines and soap making. There are more than 150 varieties of this member of the mint family.
Genovese basil (in Ligurian language baxaico baxaicò or) baxeico baxeicò is a Cultivar of (ocimum basilicum). sweet basil It is one of the most popular basils for culinary use, particularly for its use in pesto, the traditional Genoese sauce. The name Basilico Genovese is protected by the European Union with the Denominazione di Origine Protetta certification. Genoese basil is produced in the provinces of Genoa, Savona and Imperia.
Genovese Basil. Genovese basil (Ocimum basilicum Genovese) is a variety of sweet basil that originated in Italy. This specialized European strain has less of a tendency to become bitter after long, slow periods of cooking. The plant is also less likely to bolt, meaning it is less likely to flower quickly in hot weather. Sweet Basil. Sweet basil (Ocimum basilicum) is the most familiar basil, and the most widely grown in the United States. It is considered the basic basil. Medium-green, smooth, shiny leaves have a soft appearance.
Taste Tests. Sweet basil has an exotic flavor similar to a blend of licorice and cloves with a hint of mint. The herb is used in many Italian and tomato dishes. Genovese basil has a stronger flavor that is a stronger combination of anise and cloves. It is the Genovese basil that is most popular with chefs when preparing pesto sauce. Both varieties of basil add a distinct but subtle flavor when added to salads and teas. While basil is one of the popular herbs used in Italian cooking, the herb is also used in hair treatments, perfumes and sachets. The oils have been used in medicines and soap making. There are more than 150 varieties of this member of the mint family.
Sweet Basil Plants (Genovese). Ocimum basilicum. Basil 'Genovese', also called Sweet Basil, is one of the most popular herb plants that we offer. We grow a lot of different basil plants and this is a favorite for authentic Italian basil flavor and aroma-it is often used to make traditional pesto. It is a must for your culinary herb gardening efforts.
Genovese basil (in Ligurian language baxaico baxaicò or) baxeico baxeicò is a Cultivar of (ocimum basilicum). Sweet basil it is one of the most popular basils for, culinary use particularly for its use, in pesto The traditional. genoese sauce It is one of the most popular basils for culinary use, particularly for its use in pesto, the traditional Genoese sauce. The name Basilico Genovese is protected by the European Union with the Denominazione di Origine Protetta certification. Genoese basil is produced in the provinces of Genoa, Savona and Imperia.