1 Insulin resistance is a condition in which the cells of the body become resistant to the hormone insulin. 2  Insulin resistance may be part of the metabolic syndrome, and it has been associated with higher risk of developing heart disease. 3  Insulin resistance precedes the development of type 2 diabetes (T2D). Insulin is a hormone that is produced by the beta cells of the pancreas. These cells are scattered throughout the pancreas in small clusters known as the islets of Langerhans. The insulin produced is released into the blood stream and travels throughout the body.
With insulin resistance, the pancreas produces more and more insulin until the pancreas can no longer produce sufficient insulin for the body's demands, then blood sugar rises. Insulin resistance is a risk factor for development of diabetes and heart disease. Insulin is a hormone that is produced by the beta cells of the pancreas. These cells are scattered throughout the pancreas in small clusters known as the islets of Langerhans. The insulin produced is released into the blood stream and travels throughout the body.
Insulin resistance (IR) is a physiological condition in which cells fail to respond to the normal actions of the hormone insulin. 
Definition. Insulin resistance is not a disease as such but rather a state or condition in which a person's body tissues have a lowered level of response to insulin, a hormone secreted by the pancreas that helps to regulate the level of glucose (sugar) in the body. To understand insulin resistance, it may be helpful for the reader to have a brief account of the way insulin works in the body. After a person eats a meal, digestive juices in the small intestine break down starch or complex sugars in the food into glucose, a simple sugar.
SHARE IT. a a a. Insulin resistance is a health condition in which the body is resistant to the effects of a hormone called insulin. Changes in diet and exercising can often combat the effects of this condition for many people who suffer from it. The first step in understanding insulin resistance is understanding how insulin works and its effects on the body. Insulin is a hormone that is naturally produced by our body's beta cells, which are located in the pancreas.
Insulin resistance facts. 1  Insulin resistance is a condition in which the cells of the body become resistant to the hormone insulin. 2  Insulin resistance may be part of the metabolic syndrome, and it has been associated with higher risk of developing heart disease. 3  Insulin resistance precedes the development of type 2 diabetes (T2D). 4  Insulin 5  ... Indiv Insulin is a hormone that is produced by the beta cells of the pancreas. These cells are scattered throughout the pancreas in small clusters known as the islets of Langerhans. The insulin produced is released into the blood stream and travels throughout the body.
In people with type A insulin resistance syndrome, insulin resistance impairs blood sugar regulation and ultimately leads to a condition called diabetes mellitus, in which blood sugar levels can become dangerously high. Type A insulin resistance syndrome can have either an autosomal dominant or, less commonly, an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance. In autosomal dominant inheritance, one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.
Type A insulin resistance syndrome is a rare disorder characterized by severe insulin resistance, a condition in which the body's tissues and organs do not respond properly to the hormone insulin. Type A insulin resistance syndrome can have either an autosomal dominant or, less commonly, an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance. In autosomal dominant inheritance, one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder.
Insulin resistance (IR) is a condition in which the body's cells become resistant to the effects of insulin. That is, the normal response to a given amount of insulin is reduced. As a result, higher levels of insulin are needed in order for insulin to have its proper effects. Insulin is a hormone that is produced by the beta cells of the pancreas. These cells are scattered throughout the pancreas in small clusters known as the islets of Langerhans. The insulin produced is released into the blood stream and travels throughout the body.
The pancreas is an organ near the stomach, which produces a hormone called insulin. With the help of insulin, the body's cells take up the glucose and use it for energy. When your body does not produce enough insulin and/or does not efficiently use the insulin it produces, sugar levels rise in the bloodstream. 