1 10. 2  Mechanism of Polymer Degradation and Erosion:  The difference between polymer “degradation“ and “erosion“ is not clear in many cases. 3  Biodegradable polymers undergo hydrolytic bond cleavage to form water soluble degradation products that can dissolve in an aqueous environment, resulting in polymer erosion. 1 Mechanism of Hydrolytic Degradation  Hydrolytic degradation of members of the polylactide/glycolide family proceeds through four stages as represented in Figure 2: First stage of water diffusion followed by second stage, in which oligomers with acidic endgroups autocatalyze the hydrolysis reaction.
Abstract. Long-term hydrolytic and enzymatic degradation profiles of poly(ε-caprolactone) (PCL) networks were obtained. The hydrolytic degradation studies were performed in water and phosphate buffer solution (PBS) for 65 weeks. Furthermore, hydrolytic degradation, whether with water or PBS, of PCL networks is faster than that of linear PCL [4] . Previous accelerated degradation studies also have demonstrated that PCL networks degrade faster than linear PCL when immersed in an alkaline medium [18] .
1 It is known that hydrolytic degradation proceeds at a higher rate in the amorphous region than in the crystalline region. 2  The higher degradation rate in the amorphous region is attributed to the easy diffusion of water molecules into the interior of polymers. 3  18. 1 Mechanism of Hydrolytic Degradation  Hydrolytic degradation of members of the polylactide/glycolide family proceeds through four stages as represented in Figure 2: First stage of water diffusion followed by second stage, in which oligomers with acidic endgroups autocatalyze the hydrolysis reaction.
Hydrolytic degradation of poly(ε-caprolactone) with different end groups and poly(ε-caprolactone-co-γ-butyrolactone). Characterization and kinetics of hydrocortisone delivery. 
1 Hydrolytic Degradation:  This process occurs in polymers that are watersensitive active groups, especially those that take a lot of moisture.  2  Polymers that have an ability for hydrolytic destruction usually have heteroatoms in the main or side chain. 1 Mechanism of Hydrolytic Degradation  Hydrolytic degradation of members of the polylactide/glycolide family proceeds through four stages as represented in Figure 2: First stage of water diffusion followed by second stage, in which oligomers with acidic endgroups autocatalyze the hydrolysis reaction.
When a carbohydrate is broken into its component sugar molecules by hydrolysis (e.g. sucrose being broken down into glucose and fructose), this is termed saccharification. Generally, hydrolysis or saccharification is a step in the degradation of a substance. For example, dissolving sulfuric acid (H 2 SO 4) in water is accompanied by hydrolysis to give hydronium and bisulfate, the sulfuric acid's conjugate base. For a more technical discussion of what occurs during such a hydrolysis, see Broensted–Brønsted lowry–acid base. theory
1 2. 2  Hydrolytic Degradation:  This process occurs in polymers that are watersensitive active groups, especially those that take a lot of moisture.  3  Polymers that have an ability for hydrolytic destruction usually have heteroatoms in the main or side chain. 1 Mechanism of Hydrolytic Degradation  Hydrolytic degradation of members of the polylactide/glycolide family proceeds through four stages as represented in Figure 2: First stage of water diffusion followed by second stage, in which oligomers with acidic endgroups autocatalyze the hydrolysis reaction.
Polymer degradation is a change in the properties— tensile strength, colour, shape, etc.—of a polymer or polymer-based product under the influence of one or more environmental factors such as heat, light or chemicals such as acids, alkalis and some salts. Degradation can also be induced deliberately to assist structure determination. Polymeric molecules are very large (on the molecular scale), and their unique and useful properties are mainly a result of their size. Any loss in chain length lowers tensile strength and is a primary cause of premature cracking.
Types [edit]. Usually hydrolysis is a chemical process in which a molecule of water is added to a substance. Sometimes this addition causes both substance and water molecule to split into two parts. In such reactions, one fragment of the target molecule (or parent molecule) gains a hydrogen ion. For example, dissolving sulfuric acid (H 2 SO 4) in water is accompanied by hydrolysis to give hydronium and bisulfate, the sulfuric acid's conjugate base. For a more technical discussion of what occurs during such a hydrolysis, see Broensted–Brønsted lowry–acid base. theory