Here a a few relevant aspects of Alaska code that could pertain to online gambling: 1  It is a crime (Section 11.66.200) to engage in unlawful gambling, which is defined as any gambling not explicitly made legal by act of law. 2  Your first offense is a violation, subsequent offenses are class B misdemeanor.
Online Poker and Alaska Law. The general focus of gambling law in Alaska is to punish the people who run the game, not the people who take part in it. It's important to note, however, the the law regarding gambling in Alaska is very broad and could be interpreted a number of ways.
Online Gambling Age For Alaska Residents. When it comes to gambling in Alaska, you will find that there are various gambling age limits in place. First off, you have to be 19 to begin playing bingo. Both online and offline bingo halls require you to be 19 in order to play.
Alaska does allow wagering on a specific list of skill-based contests. There are no legal casinos in the state of Alaska and gambling devices are expressly criminalized by state law. Alaska law allows for potentially severe penalties for anyone who promotes or profits from unlawful gambling in the state.
Poker players from across the United States have developed a strong interest in online poker, and Alaskans are no different. In fact, legal online poker is an especially appealing option for poker players from Alaska, who lack access to commercial casinos or other convenient ways to play real-money poker games.
Legal Gambling Age In Alaska. The only form of legal gambling in Alaska is the online variety and as such the Alaskan legal age limit is 19. While it may seem like online gambling is an excellent medium for underage people, online gambling is heavily monitored and the consequences for breaking the law are severe.
Alaska Legal Gambling and Poker Laws. People have been gambling on striking it rich from things like gold or oil in Alaska for decades, but when it comes to more traditional forms of casino gambling (and online gambling), Alaska actually offers fewer options than the typical state in the union.