Reasons for the Compact. The Mayflower was originally bound for the Colony of Virginia, financed by the Company of Merchant Adventurers of London. Storms forced them to anchor at the hook of Cape Cod in what is now Massachusetts.
The Mayflower Compact is a written agreement composed by a consensus of the new Settlers arriving at New Plymouth in November of 1620. They had traveled across the ocean on the ship Mayflower which was anchored in what is now Provincetown Harbor near Cape Cod, Massachusetts. The Mayflower s passengers knew that the New World s earlier settlers failed due to a lack of government. They hashed out the content and eventually composed the Compact for the sake of their own survival.
The Mayflower Compact was the first governing document of Plymouth Colony. It was written by separatist Congregationalists who called themselves Saints. Later they were referred to as Pilgrims or Pilgrim Fathers. They were fleeing from religious persecution by King James of England. The Mayflower was originally bound for the Colony of Virginia, financed by the Company of Merchant Adventurers of London. Storms forced them to anchor at the hook of Cape Cod in what is now Massachusetts.
A+E Networks. The Mayflower Compact, signed by 41 English colonists on the ship Mayflower on November 11, 1620, was the first written framework of government established in what is now the United States. 
The Mayflower Compact. The Mayflower Compact was signed on 11 November 1620 onboard the Mayflower shortly after she came to anchor off Provincetown Harbor. The Pilgrims had obtained permission from English authorities to settle in Virginia, whose northern border at the time extended up to what is now New York. 
The Mayflower Compact was signed aboard ship on November 11, 1620 by the Pilgrims. The Mayflower was originally bound for the Colony of Virginia, financed by the Company of Merchant Adventurers of London. Storms forced them to anchor at the hook of Cape Cod in what is now Massachusetts.
That’s what the Pilgrims did in the year 1620, on a ship called Mayflower. Mayflower set sail from England in July 1620, but it had to turn back twice because Speedwell, the ship it was traveling with, leaked. After deciding to leave the leaky Speedwell behind, Mayflower finally got underway on September 6, 1620. 
One of the first lists of the Mayflower Compact s signers was provided by William Bradford s nephew, Nathaniel Morton. The names are published in his 1669 New England s Memorial. The Mayflower s passengers knew that the New World s earlier settlers failed due to a lack of government. They hashed out the content and eventually composed the Compact for the sake of their own survival.
The version now available follow his spelling and punctuation. The Mayflower Compact was the first agreement for self-government to be created and enforced in America. On September 16, 1620 the Mayflower, a British ship, with 102 passengers, who called themselves Pilgrims, aboard sailed from Plymouth, England. They were bound for the New World. The voyage took 66 days. The Mayflower Compact, which remained in effect until 1691, was he first written attampt at self government in American History.. On September 16, 1620 the Mayflower, a British ship, with 102 passengers, who called themselves Pilgrims, aboard sailed from Plymouth, England. They were bound for the New World