And on the video side, Prime is about the same price as access to Netflix or Hulu Plus ($96 per year for each), but whereas Netflix and Hulu Plus are recurring $8 monthly costs, the $99 Prime one-year subscription needs to be paid up front. 1 (You can get $20 off your first order of $50 or more with the promo code TRYITNOW.). 2  Sharing the free shipping benefits (and other Prime benefits) with one other adult and up to four children as part of Amazon Household.
Help & Customer Service. Amazon Prime offers multiple shipping benefits, including FREE Two-Day Shipping for eligible purchases. Members also get access to Amazon Instant Video and the ability to borrow books from the Kindle Owners' Lending Library
Amazon (AMZN) announced the annual membership will now cost $99 a year, up from $79. A student membership will cost $49 annually. In February, Amazon said it was considering raising the price to $119 a year. Prime members get two-day shipping on a large number of Amazon items at no extra cost, plus the ability to borrow Kindle books and stream movies and television shows. The company said blamed the increase on increase fuel and shipping costs.
Netflix charges a monthly fee of $7.99 per month, which comes out to $95.88 per year. Amazon Prime costs $99 per year, which comes out to about $8.25 per month. Forgetting the nice shipping benefits you get with Prime, you pay about the same. If both services had the same library of options, you could justify a Prime membership in an instant. In the end, you'll find the service worth it if either benefit proves even remotely useful to you. Let's break down both services to get a more specific idea of what $99 per year gets you. Update: Amazon Prime, which used to be $79 a year, has gone up to $99 a year.
A.: Amazon Prime is a paid service (Free 30-day trial, $99 per year) that gives Amazon shoppers a few distinct advantages. Members of Amazon Prime are eligible for: 1  Free two-day shipping on any eligible item without a minimum-order balance, and free same-day delivery (in 14 metro areas) on eligible orders more than $35. 1 (You can get $20 off your first order of $50 or more with the promo code TRYITNOW.). 2  Sharing the free shipping benefits (and other Prime benefits) with one other adult and up to four children as part of Amazon Household.
Price : Netflix subscriptions currently cost $7.99 per month, but that price will rise by $1 or $2 for new members later this quarter. Existing members will keep their current price for a generous period of time. Assuming the $2 increase, Netflix will soon cost $119.88 per year. Amazon Prime membership costs $99 per year (or about $8.25 per month), but also includes unlimited, free two-day shipping on many items. You also get access to the company's growing selection of streaming TV shows and movies. Hulu Plus costs $7.99 per month or $95.88 per year. 
Comments. Amazon Prime costs $99 a year, but for that price you get a whole lot more than 2-day shipping on all Prime-eligible products in the online superstore. 
Amazon increased the price of its annual Prime subscription to $99 in March 2014. Amazon offers many services to its Prime members, including free 2-day shipping, unlimited streaming of Amazon Prime Instant Video, and access to the Kindle Lending Library. We considered the actual value of these services to determine if a Prime membership is worth the cost.
Bottom line: If you buy a lot of items that are under $35 — or want two-day shipping on multiple items — the Amazon Prime membership, even at $99, is probably still a good deal. And if it allows you to ditch your streaming TV/movie or music service, even better. (This is an updated story.). 