How dangerous a UTI becomes depends on the overall health of the affected person and on whether or not the bacteria spread from the bladder out to other parts of the body. Many UTIs cause symptoms related to bladder irritation, such as burning with urination, blood in the urine, and sometimes fever and abdominal pain. Treating such a UTI with oral antibiotics usually results in quick improvement. A urinary tract infection (UTI) “ common in older adults -- can vary in seriousness from a minor medical problem all the way to a life-threatening illness.
UTIs become much more dangerous when they spread from the bladder into the bloodstream or to the kidney. An infection that has spread in this way can cause life-threatening low blood pressure and can also affect other organs in the body. Intravenous antibiotics are needed to treat these expanded UTIs. A urinary tract infection (UTI) “ common in older adults -- can vary in seriousness from a minor medical problem all the way to a life-threatening illness.
Urinary tract infections (UTI) may become dangerous if ascending bacteria reach the kidney and subsequently induce an inflammatory reaction within the renal parenchyma. Beetz R(1). Author information: (1)Universitaets-Universitäts Kinderklinik. Mainz urinary tract (INFECTIONS) uti may become dangerous if ascending bacteria reach the kidney and subsequently induce an inflammatory reaction within the renal. parenchyma
Most urinary tract infections occur when bacteria enter the urinary tract and start to multiply in the bladder. Women may be more prone to UTIs than men because their urethras are closer to the anus, the source of UTI-causing bacteria. Nowadays, doctors are concerned that urinary tract infections have joined the long list of bacterial infections growing resistant to antibiotics. The more frequently that bacteria are exposed to certain antibiotic, the greater the chance resistant strains will develop.
Complications. When treated promptly and properly, lower urinary tract infections rarely lead to complications. But left untreated, a urinary tract infection can have serious consequences. Complications of a UTI may include: 1  Recurrent infections, especially in women who experience three or more UTIs. 2  Permanent kidney damage from an acute or chronic kidney infection (pyelonephritis) due to an untreated UTI
Urinary tract infections (UTIs) are bacterial infections in the body's urinary system -- the bladder, kidneys, ureters, and urethra. In the kidneys, the infection is called pyelonephritis; in the bladder, it is called cystitis. People with a higher risk of developing urinary tract infections include: 1  People with conditions that affect the bladder's nerve supply (including diabetes, multiple sclerosis, Parkinson's disease, and spinal cord injuries). 2  Older adults. 3  Pregnant women
If you have a urinary tract infection, you may experience one or more of the following symptoms: 1  Pain or burning (discomfort) when urinating. 2  The need to urinate more often than usual. 3  A feeling of urgency when you urinate. 4  Blood or mucus in the urine. 5  Cramps or pain in the lower abdomen. 6  Pain during sexual intercourse. UTI’s are more common during pregnancy because of changes in the urinary tract. The uterus sits directly on top of the bladder. As the uterus grows, its increased weight can block the drainage of urine from the bladder, causing an infection.
Bacteria that are normally found in the gastrointestinal tract, such as E. coli, cause most urinary tract infections. Other bacteria that can cause urinary tract infections include staphylococcus, proteus, klebsiella, enterococcus, and pseudomonas. People with a higher risk of developing urinary tract infections include: 1  People with conditions that affect the bladder's nerve supply (including diabetes, multiple sclerosis, Parkinson's disease, and spinal cord injuries). 2  Older adults. 3  Pregnant women