To get rid of favorites, open the General tab and then, under the Navigation pane section, uncheck Show favorites. Next, click Apply at the bottom of the window and you're all set. After your favorites disappear, OneDrive will be at the top of the File Explorer navigation pane in Windows 8.1. If you're a heavy Dropbox user, keep in mind that dumping your favorites will remove the Dropbox link from the File Explorer navigation pane. To make that easier, I put the file path of the current folder or file I'm viewing at the top of my File Explorer window. To do this open the View tab and then go to and check the box next to Display the pull path in the title bar-OFF.. This will change OFF to ON..
To change the order of the buttons, do the following: At the bottom of the Navigation Pane, click Configure buttons, and then click Navigation Pane Options. In the Display buttons in this order list, click the button that you want to change, and then click Move Up or Move Down. Note To restore the default button arrangement, click Reset. Change the Navigation Pane font. You can change the font and size of the text in the Navigation Pane, from any view in Outlook. On the View tab, in the Layout group, click Navigation Pane, click Options, and then click Font. Enter the settings that you want in the Font, Font style, and Size boxes. Click OK twice to close the open dialog boxes
Steps. 1. Examine the window. Look at both sides of the window, interior and exterior. 1  Make sure it is a window that is meant to be opened. 2  Some new office and home windows are not meant to be opened. 3  Make sure that the window is not nailed or screwed shut for security or energy conservation reasons. 1 If you can’t get a pry bar between the window bottom and the frame put two small screws in the frame near the bottom of each corner, leaving the head of the screw sticking out a bit. 2  Use these to put the pry bar under and pry up on. 3  This can damage the frame a bit.
To specify how objects are displayed and sorted, do the following: Right-click the top of the Navigation Pane to display the shortcut menu, and then do any one of the following: To change how the objects are displayed, point to View By, and then click either Details, Icon, or List. To view all the groups in the database, click Show all groups. To create a new category, right-click the menu at the top of the Navigation Pane, and then click Navigation Options. Under Categories, click Add Item. A new category appears under Categories in the Navigation Options dialog box. Type a name for the new category, and then press ENTER.
Double hung is a term used to describe windows where the top and bottom portions of the window both open. The two sashes slide up and down, providing better options for air circulation in older homes or homes with higher ceilings. The back of the chair will support the weight of both window panes while they are open and you are cleaning them. If you do not have a chair available or your chair is not tall enough, support the windows with your hands. The window and painted finish may incur damage if you allow it to hang freely.
The Navigation Pane, new in Microsoft Office Access 2007, is a central location from which you can easily view and access all your database objects, run reports, or enter data directly in tables. The Navigation Pane replaces the Database window, which was used in earlier versions of Access. To create a new category, right-click the menu at the top of the Navigation Pane, and then click Navigation Options. Under Categories, click Add Item. A new category appears under Categories in the Navigation Options dialog box. Type a name for the new category, and then press ENTER.
1. Set a chair underneath the window area with the back of the chair facing toward the window. The back of the chair will support the weight of both window panes while they are open and you are cleaning them. If you do not have a chair available or your chair is not tall enough, support the windows with your hands. The window and painted finish may incur damage if you allow it to hang freely.
Windows Explorer is the file management application in Windows. Windows Explorer can be used to navigate your hard drive and display the contents of the folders and subfolders you use to organize your files on your hard drive. Windows Explorer is automatically launched any time you open a folder in Windows XP. 
If the Search box is not already visible at the top of the Navigation Pane, right-click the menu bar at the top of the Navigation Pane, and then click Search Bar. Type either a part or the complete name of the object or shortcut in the Search Bar box. To create a new category, right-click the menu at the top of the Navigation Pane, and then click Navigation Options. Under Categories, click Add Item. A new category appears under Categories in the Navigation Options dialog box. Type a name for the new category, and then press ENTER.