Throat infections are typically caused by a virus or by bacterial infection (e.g., strep throat). Examples of viral causes of sore throat include the flu (influenza) and infectious mononucleosis. Bacterial and viral throat infections are usually contagious. 
Bacteria: Strep throat is an infection caused by a particular strain of streptococcus bacteria. This infection can also damage the heart valves (rheumatic fever) and kidneys (nephritis), cause scarlet fever, tonsillitis, pneumonia, sinusitis, and ear infections. Infections from viruses or bacteria are the main cause of sore throats and can make it difficult to talk and breathe. Allergies and sinus infections can also contribute to a sore throat. If you have a sore throat that lasts for more than five to seven days, you should see your doctor.
Streptococcal infections are any type of infection caused by the streptococcus (strep) group of bacteria. There are many different types of Streptococci bacteria, and infections vary in severity from mild throat infections to life-threatening infections of the blood or organs. 
A sore throat (throat infection, pharyngitis) is caused when a virus (or bacteria) infects the area at the back of your throat (pharynx). This causes redness and swelling (inflammation), and can be painful, especially when you swallow. Most throat infections are caused by viruses, including the same viruses that cause: 1  colds (rhinovirus, coronavirus). 2  flu (influenza A and B viruses). 3  laryngitis and croup (parainfluenza virus).
A Honor Society of Nursing (STTI) answered. Bacterial throat infections are caused by the spread of bacteria. Most commonly, they are caused by a specific group of bacteria called Group A streptococcus. These bacteria are fairly contagious. They can spread through liquids and can also be transmitted indirectly on various commonly handled surfaces like doorknobs. 
Less commonly, pharyngitis is caused by a bacterial infection. Bacterial infections do require antibiotics. The most common bacterial infection of the throat is strep throat, which is caused by streptococcus A. Rare causes of bacterial pharyngitis include gonorrhea, chlamydia, and corynebacterium.
A. Bacterial causes of throat infections (tonsillopharyngitis) require further attention from individuals (and their parents or caregiver if the sick person is a child) and physicians. Streptococcus, or strep, is the most frequently found bacterial cause of sore throat. This group of bacteria is also known to cause infections other than strep throat such as skin infections, soft tissue infections, and pneumonia (lung infection). There are many other bacteria that may also cause throat infections. Group A Streptococcus is the most common cause in children and adolescents. Mycoplasma, Neisseria, Corynebacterium, Yersinia, and non-Group A Strep bacteria are some of the other bacterial causes of throat infection
Bacteria can also cause a throat infection. This is sometimes called a ‘strep’ throat, after the name of the bacteria that cause it — Streptococcus pyogenes. Bacterial infections or ‘strep’ throat is rare in children younger than 3 years old. About 1 in 3 children aged 3–14 years will have a sore throat caused by S. pyogenes, compared with about 1 in 10 adults. This causes redness and swelling (inflammation), and can be painful, especially when you swallow. Most throat infections are caused by viruses, including the same viruses that cause: 1  colds (rhinovirus, coronavirus). 2  flu (influenza A and B viruses). 3  laryngitis and croup (parainfluenza virus).
A throat infection, sometimes called pharyngitis, can be either a bacterial or a viral infection leading to inflammation of the tissues of the throat that causes redness, pain and swelling of the walls or structures of the throat. Many of these infections are viral; others can be caused by bacteria (such as Streptococcus pyogenes, or group A Streptococcus). Streptococcal bacteria are the agents that cause the painful and well-known condition known as strep throat.