Use the pencil to trace around the vinyl. Remove the plywood sheet and use heavy-duty scissors to cut the vinyl along the pencil lines. Repeat this process for each piece of plywood. Lift the plywood sheets into the boat and lay them in place. Use a screwdriver to fasten them at the corners with screws. Apply marine carpet adhesive to the plywood with a wide blade putty knife. Lay the vinyl in place (right side up) and press it down into the adhesive with a lawn roller. Allow the adhesive 24 hours to set completely
When the flooring on your boat's deck needs to be replaced, you may decide to replace it with vinyl boat flooring. Vinyl will look good for some time, it resists damage at least as well as any other flooring, except steel, and, in a boat, laying vinyl only requires one more step than laying vinyl in a house. Remove the plywood sheet and use heavy-duty scissors to cut the vinyl along the pencil lines. Repeat this process for each piece of plywood. Lift the plywood sheets into the boat and lay them in place. Use a screwdriver to fasten them at the corners with screws.
Before applying any glue to your deck roll your new pontoon vinyl flooring out completely over the deck of your boat so that you can inspect it. Occasionally vinyl flooring will have imperfections in it which we may miss or it can get damaged in shipping, now is the time to discover any problems. Installation Tips. 1  Space your deck screws or bolts 16 apart when securing your decking. 2  Apply adhesive to your deck using a medium nap paint roller. 3  Use a roller or stiff broom to firmly press your new vinyl flooring down into the glue. 4  Install your fence risers under each bolt that secures your railing to the deck.
Replace your worn-out carpet with quality marine carpeting and flooring from Overton's, Syntec, or Shaw Carpet. For your re-decking projects we offer marine-grade lumber and plywood, plus non-skid coatings, mats from Cape Hatteras, and SeaDek helm pads. In addition to marine carpet, we have MariDeck vinyl deck covering and more flooring options. Sort By:
Vinyl Flooring. This has come up to be one of the most requested options for pontoon boat flooring in place of carpet. Vinyl flooring comes in a variety of neutral colors and is used by most high quality pontoon boat manufacturers for easy clean and maintenance. It is non slippery. We can always add custom carpet mats to snap in and out easily to add to that luxury your feet are accustomed to.
1 Choose from standard 34mil or heavy duty 80mil vinyl pontoon flooring. 2  2-3 gallons of carpet glue (16'-25' kits include 2 gallons, 30' kits include 3 gallons). ( 3 100) deck fasteners, choose from self-tapping screws or stainless bolts. ( 4 32) pontoon fence risers lift your railing off the carpet (no dirt around your rails). Installation Tips. 1  Space your deck screws or bolts 16 apart when securing your decking. 2  Apply adhesive to your deck using a medium nap paint roller. 3  Use a roller or stiff broom to firmly press your new vinyl flooring down into the glue. 4  Install your fence risers under each bolt that secures your railing to the deck.
1 Pontoon Vinyl Flooring Kits-If you can buy plywood locally this kit comes with everything else you need. 2  Pontoon Boat Deck Kits-If you cannot buy the correct marine plywood locally, the Pontoon Deck Kit is for you. 
Or do you mean a vinyl floor covering you would use on a boat. They are very different. The best of all option is textured gel-coat in my opinion, but that tends to be difficult to do. The next best option is paint with non-skid added. But you need a smooth paint ready surface for that. Re: Marine Vinyl Flooring. Joking aside, Nautolex is what I was considering using on the lower deck of my tri-hull. Being a rubber product it seems it would work find if you did not make complex bends. My idea was to snap it down or simply lay it in position so that it could be removed.
Next you must compress the vinyl flooring onto the lines of glue. The polyester backing will bond to the glue when apply pressure, forming a bond which will hold the vinyl flooring in place once the glue hardens. Use a heavy roller, you can rent a carpet roller or use a heavy pipe to press the carpet down onto the glue. Installation Tips. 1  Space your deck screws or bolts 16 apart when securing your decking. 2  Apply adhesive to your deck using a medium nap paint roller. 3  Use a roller or stiff broom to firmly press your new vinyl flooring down into the glue. 4  Install your fence risers under each bolt that secures your railing to the deck.