Microscale Gas Chemistry: A. Appearance. Hydrogen sulfide is a colorless gas with an offensive stench and is said to smell like rotten eggs. The gas can be detected at a level of 2 parts per billion. To put this into perspective, 1 mL of the gas distributed evenly in a 100-seat lecture hall is about 20 ppb. 
1 Hydrogen Sulfide is a colorless, corrosive and highly toxic gas with an offensive rotten egg odor. It is also highly flammable and a respiratory inhibitor. 
Hydrogen Sulfide. Hydrogen sulfide (also known as H 2 S, sewer gas, swamp gas, stink damp, and sour damp) is a colorless gas known for its pungent rotten egg odor at low concentrations. It is extremely flammable and highly toxic. Hydrogen sulfide is used or produced in a number of industries, such as. 1  Oil and gas refining. 2  Mining.
Hydrogen sulfide is the chemical compound with the formula H 2S. It is a colorless gas with the characteristic foul odor of rotten eggs; it is heavier than air, very poisonous, corrosive, flammable, and explosive. Hydrogen sulfide is slightly soluble in water and acts as a weak acid, giving the hydrosulfide ion HS − (pKa = 6.9 in 0.01-0.1 mol/litre solutions at 18 °C). A solution of hydrogen sulfide in water, known as sulfhydric acid or hydrosulfuric acid, is initially clear but over time turns cloudy.
1 Hydrogen sulfide, or hydrosulfuric acid (H 2 S), is a gas that may occur in your household water. 2  Common names include stink gas and sewer gas. 3  Hydrogen sulfide is insoluble in water, but underground, this gas remains trapped within the water. 1 Most people can smell hydrogen sulfide in water with a concentration of as little as 0.5 parts per million (ppm) . 2  Waters with concentrations from 0.5 to 1 ppm smell musty or swampy.. 3  Concentrations greater than 1 ppm smell like rotten eggs and are corrosive to plumbing.
Hydrogen sulfide is a flammable, colorless gas that smells like rotten eggs. People usually can smell hydrogen sulfide at low concentrations in air ranging from 0.0005 to 0.3 parts per million (ppm). 1 Hydrogen sulfide can be released into air, water, and soil at places where it is produced or used. 2  It is released primarily as a gas and spreads in the air. 3  It can remain in the air from 1 to 42 days, depending on the season. 4  In air, it can change into sulfur dioxide and sulfates.
Hydrogen sulfide often results from the bacterial breakdown of organic matter in the absence of oxygen gas, such as in swamps and sewers; this process is commonly known as anaerobic digestion. H 2S also occurs in volcanic gases, natural gas, and in some sources of well water. Hydrogen sulfide is slightly soluble in water and acts as a weak acid, giving the hydrosulfide ion HS − (pKa = 6.9 in 0.01-0.1 mol/litre solutions at 18 °C). A solution of hydrogen sulfide in water, known as sulfhydric acid or hydrosulfuric acid, is initially clear but over time turns cloudy.
The bacteria that produces hydrogen sulfide uses sulfur rather than  oxygen. This is when bacteria is used as the terminal electron  acceptor in the electron transport chain … . Hydrogen sulphide is a toxic gas; also dangerous for paintings containing lead colours and for objects made from silver. You think probably to hydrogen peroxide (H2O2), used f … or restoring. . Lead (II) trioxocarbonate (IV) in white Lead (II) paint is converted to lead (II) Sulphide by atmospheric Hydrogen Sulphide.
Hydrogen Sulfide: Nature's Chemical Helper. The main use for hydrogen sulfide is in the production of sulfuric acid and elemental sulfur. Manufacturers use sodium hydrosulfide, sodium sulfide and similar inorganic sulfides to create products such as pesticides, leather, dyes and pharmaceuticals. Hydrogen sulfide is also used in chemical warfare. Many industrial entities, such as iron smelters, landfills, food processing plants and breweries, produce or use hydrogen sulfide. If one of them disposes of this gas improperly or releases it accidentally, unwanted emissions may escape into the air