Posted on Aug 11, 2015 @ 3:47AM. Owen Wilson ‘s new movie, No Escape, has been banned in Thailand, RadarOnline.com can confirm. The Weinstein Company production portrays an American, Wilson, who is living with his family in Southeast Asia when a political uprising breaks out.
The film stars Owen Wilson, Lake Bell, and Pierce Brosnan, and tells the story of a businessman trapped with his family in a Southeast Asian country during an uprising. The film was released on August 26, 2015.
Owen Wilson is trading laughs for thrills in his new movie No Escape, a new film from The Weinstein Company, which also stars Pierce Brosnan and Lake Bell. Directed by John Erick Dowdle, the thriller follows an American businessman, played by Wilson, as he moves his loved ones to Southeast Asia to begin a new life.
Self-proclaimed troublemaker Owen Wilson was born in Dallas, to Irish-American parents originally from Massachusetts. He grew up in Texas with his mother, Laura (Cunningham), a photographer; his father, Robert Andrew Wilson, an ad exec; and his brothers, Andrew Wilson (the eldest) and Luke Wilson (the youngest).
3. The Coup: This another upcoming movie of Owen Wilson which is all set to get released in the month of March, 2015. John Erick Dowdle is the director of the film and it’s a Thriller Movie. It’s a story of an American family who found themselves caught right in middle of a coup in the new home in overseas location.
But Wilson's new film No Escape, which opens Wednesday, is no laughing matter. In the thriller, Wilson plays Jack Dwyer, an American businessman who has taken a job with a company in a Southeast Asian country.
When Owen Wilson was in Thailand shooting the new thriller “No Escape,” life imitated the script. In the film, out Wednesday, Wilson plays Jack Dwyer, an American businessman thrust into action-hero mode when a violent coup breaks out in an unidentified Asian country.
By CS ON. Entertainment One has released the new UK trailer for the upcoming action thriller No Escape, starring Owen Wilson (Inherent Vice, Night at the Museum: Secret of the Tomb), Lake Bell (In a World… , Million Dollar Arm), and Pierce Brosnan (The November Man, How to Make Love Like an Englishman).