Therefore, all the carbon-oxygen bonds have a similar length, and the oxygen atoms have a partial negative charge (hence, all the oxygen atoms are similar.). When carbon dioxide or bicarbonate is dissolved in water, carbonate ions can be formed. Carbonate ion is in equilibrium with bicarbonate ions. When heating most of the carbonated compounds, they release carbon dioxide easily. Carbonate compounds are ionic, and they are insoluble in water. Bicarbonate. Bicarbonate is a monovalent anion having one hydrogen, one carbon and three oxygens.
The bicarbonate ion is HCO3-. Bicarbonate is an important buffer found in blood. Carbon dioxide is present in the blood in a number of forms such as bicarbonate, dissolved carbon dioxide and carbonic acid, of which 90% is bicarbonate or HCO3. CO2, in the form of bicarbonate, is directly involved in “light reactions .” This “bicarbonate effect” influences molecular processes.
Summary: 1  Both carbon dioxide and bicarbonate are present in the blood and are used to measure how well your lungs are working and how balanced is the acid-base component in the blood of people who are suffering from kidney diseases, heart problems, or diabetes. The blood transports carbon dioxide to the lungs where it will be exhaled. More than 90 percent of CO2 in the human blood is available as the bicarbonate (HCO3) form. The remaining carbon dioxide is either the dissolved form of the gas (CO2) or in carbonic acid form.
Not to be confused with Carbolic acid, an antiquated name for phenol. Carbonic acid is also an archaic name for carbon dioxide. Carbonic acid is a chemical compound with the chemical formula H 2 CO 3 (equivalently OC(OH) 2). It is also a name sometimes given to solutions of carbon dioxide in water (carbonated water), because such solutions contain small amounts of H 2 CO 3. In physiology, carbonic acid is described as volatile acid or respiratory acid, because it is the only acid excreted as a gas by the lungs. The hydration equilibrium constant at 25 °C is called K h, which in the case of carbonic acid is [H 2 CO 3 ]/[CO 2 ] ≈ 1.7×10 −3 in pure water and ≈ 1.2×10 −3 in seawater. Hence, the majority of the carbon dioxide is not converted into carbonic acid, remaining as CO 2 molecules.
CO2 enters water through interface with the atmosphere and the biological processes of organic carbon digestion and photosynthesis. Aqueous carbon dioxide, CO2 (aq), reacts with water forming carbonic acid, H2CO3 (aq). Carbonic acid may loose protons to form bicarbonate, HCO3- , and carbonate, CO32-. In this case the proton is liberated to the water, decreasing pH. The complex chemical equilibria are described using two acid equilibrium equations.
Carbonate vs Bicarbonate. Human body produces carbon dioxide as a by-product of the metabolism. Most of this carbon dioxide is dissolved in blood plasma and present in the form of bicarbonate. Carbonate and bicarbonate system is mainly responsible for maintaining our blood pH value, and they act as a buffer in our blood. When carbon dioxide is dissolved in water, bicarbonate and carbonic acid are formed, and there is equilibrium between these species. When heating most of the carbonated compounds, they release carbon dioxide easily. Carbonate compounds are ionic, and they are insoluble in water. Bicarbonate. Bicarbonate is a monovalent anion having one hydrogen, one carbon and three oxygens.
For example, carbon dioxide is a by-product of metabolism, and carbon dioxide combines with water to form carbonic acid. Also, lactic acid is a product of anaerobic metabolism, protein metabolism produces phosphoric and sulfuric acids, and lipid metabolism produces fatty acids. 
This test measures the amount of bicarbonate, a form of carbon dioxide, in your blood. Bicarbonate, also known as HCO 3, is a byproduct of your body's metabolism. Your blood brings bicarbonate to your lungs, and then it is exhaled as carbon dioxide. Your kidneys also help regulate bicarbonate. Bicarbonate is excreted and reabsorbed by your kidneys. This regulates your body's pH, or acid balance.
HCO3 vs CO2. Carbon dioxide (CO2) comes in a form of gas and is a waste product resulting from the body’s metabolism. The blood transports carbon dioxide to the lungs where it will be exhaled. More than 90 percent of CO2 in the human blood is available as the bicarbonate (HCO3) form. The remaining carbon dioxide is either the dissolved form of the gas (CO2) or in carbonic acid form. The kidneys play an important role in maintaining the balance of bicarbonate, carbonic acid, and carbon dioxide in the blood