There are currently two recognized species of wolves, the Canis lupus, or grey wolf, and the Canis rufus, or red wolf. These are two of the species that comprise the Canidae family in the Carnivora order. The red wolf’s Genus name, Canis, is Latin for dog. Rufus is Latin for red, in reference to the red wolf’s coloration. While scientists believe there are roughly 15 subspecies of grey wolves worldwide, there is only one subspecies of the red wolf, the Canis rufus rufus.
The Eurasian Wolf (Canis lupus lupus), also known as the Common Wolf, European Wolf, Carpathian Wolf, Steppes Wolf, Tibetan Wolf and Chinese Wolf is a subspecies of the Grey Wolf (Canis lupus) surviving mostly in Central Asia. Read more….
Wolf Species Overview. In the world there are three wolf species: The Gray wolf, Red wolf and Ethiopian wolf. There are also several subspecies that are named based upon the region where they happen to be found.
Wolf Species Index. 1  Wolf Species. 2  The Gray Wolf is the one most people are familiar with. 3  They can be all colors and range in size depending on where they happen to reside. 4  Gray Wolf. 5  The Common Wolf is also known as the Gray Wolf. 6  This is the type of wolf that
The Eastern Wolf (Canis lupus lycaon), also know as Eastern Canadian Wolf or Eastern Canadian Red Wolf is traditionally considered to be a subspecies of the Grey Wolf. Sometimes it is also viewed as a result of historical hybridizations between grey wolves and red wolves or coyotes. Read more….
The Arctic Wolf (Canis lupus arctos), also called Polar Wolf or White Wolf, is a mammal of the Canidae family and a subspecies of the Grey Wolf. Arctic Wolves inhabit the Canadian Arctic and the northern parts of Greenland.
There are three species of wolves in the world-the grey wolf (Canis lupus), the red wolf (Canis rufus) and the Ethiopian wolf ((also known as Abyssian wolf, Ethipioan JAckle … , and Simain fox))(Canis simensis).
The Red Wolf (Canis Rufus), is the rarest and most endangered of all the wolf species.The Red Wolfs original distribution included much of eastern North America, where Red Wolves were found from Pennsylvania in the east, Florida in the south, and Texas in the west.