Tuscany (Italian: Toscana) [1] is a region on Italy 's west coast, on the Tyrrhenian sea. It is one of the most popular places to visit in a country that is itself one of the most popular tourist destinations in the world. Tuscany has two very diverse faces-the art cities such as Florence, Siena, Lucca and Pisa on one hand, and the countryside on the other. The small towns, villages, castles, villas and vineyards of Tuscany make a welcome change from the traffic and noise of some of the larger Tuscan cities.
Tuscany is just one of the most beautiful and interesting regions of Italy, and it is located on the Italian north-western coast. Tuscany has a shape of somewhat triangle and includes 10 provinces. All of Tuscany provinces have their own charm and open a door to a little new world to discover. Tuscany Provinces. Florence is located on the north-east of Tuscany. See on the Florence map below the exact location of Florence, Italy or head to Florence map link to view more maps. For more information about Tuscany location you may also like to visit our maps page.
Tuscany (/ˈtʌskəni/ TUSK-ə-nee; Italian: Toscana, [tosˈkaːna]) is a region in central Italy with an area of about 23,000 square kilometres (8,900 sq mi) and a population of about 3.8 million inhabitants (2013). The regional capital is Florence (Firenze). Tuscany is known for its landscapes, traditions, history, artistic legacy and its influence on high culture. Tuscany has a rich ancient and modern musical tradition, and has produced numerous composers and musicians, including Giacomo Puccini and Pietro Mascagni. Florence is the main musical centre of Tuscany. The city was at the heart of much of our Western musical tradition.
The official capital of Tuscany is magnificent Florence (Firenze). It's one of the most beautiful historical cities in the world! Florence is located on the north-east of Tuscany. See on the Florence map below the exact location of Florence, Italy or head to Florence map link to view more maps. For more information about Tuscany location you may also like to visit our maps page.
There is a lot to see and do in Tuscany, the difficulty is really where to start. Certainly most should start with Florence, then continue on to Siena and Pisa. The roll call of citta città di, arte cities of, art is: Daunting, Arezzo, Cortona San gimignano And lucca are all. striking From the Etruscans to the Romans to the Renaissance, Tuscany is possibly the greatest repository of art in the world, from extraordinary paintings and sculpture to frescoes and architectural masterpieces.
1 Montepulciano – Hill town in southeastern Tuscany, famous for its wine. 2  Montalcino – Hill town in southern Tuscany, famous for its wine. 3  Pienza – Town in southeastern Tuscany, historic center is a UNESCO World Heritage Site, home to the Palazzo Piccolomini and adjoining Renaissance garden. 1 Montalcino – Hill town in southern Tuscany, famous for its wine. 2  Pienza – Town in southeastern Tuscany, historic center is a UNESCO World Heritage Site, home to the Palazzo Piccolomini and adjoining Renaissance garden. 3  Maremma – Coastal area of southwestern Tuscany.
Pisa-Piazza dei Miracoli. Tuscany is located in central Italy and stretches from the Apennines to the Tyrrhenian Sea. Its landscape, artistic heritage and stand-out cities-first among them Florence-make Tuscany an unquestioned protagonist of international tourism.
Tuscany is located in the center of Italy, south Europe, mediterranean sea. 
Tuscan wine (Italian Toscana) is Italian wine from the Tuscany region. Located in central Italy along the Tyrrhenian coast, Tuscany is home to some of the world's most notable wine regions. Chianti, Brunello di Montalcino and Vino Nobile di Montepulciano are primarily made with Sangiovese grape whereas the Vernaccia grape is the basis of the white Vernaccia di San Gimignano.