An impression is a single piece of paper with an image printed on it from a matrix. The term as applied to prints is used in a manner similar to the term copy as applied to a book. Intaglio: An intaglio print is one whose image is printed from a recessed design incised or etched into the surface of a plate. A blind stamp (also chop mark) is an embossed seal impressed onto a print as a distinguishing mark by the artist, the publisher, an institution, or a collector. Block: A {wood} block is a piece of wood used as a matrix for a print.
On a spoon handle marked with the maker Crosby, Honnewell, and Morse is the number 925 -- a code for sterling. Nonsterling American Marks. A wide range of symbols were used by U.S. manufacturers to designate silver plating and solid lower-grade alloys. At top, the slash marks on the back of this spoon identify the piece as German; another clue is the shield with the eagle. At bottom, 90 is a standard marking for silver plate. Russia. The number 800 (bottom) was the Imperial Russian notation for sterling silver.
To determine if a piece is Old Sheffield Plate or silverplate there are many clues. If a piece has EPNS (Electroplated Nickel Silver) or EP (Electroplate) marked on it, then it is definitely silverplate. If there is a maker’s mark on it, the maker can be identified by consulting a good “mark book”. Lion Passant: Certifies of sterling silver purity. Letter “o”: Year mark (1906). . If you look at a piece of English silver and wonder if it is sterling or if it is plated, it is easy: if it has the Lion Passant, it is sterling; if it does not have the Lion Passant, it is not.
a special mark or emblematic figure stamped upon gold or silver plate, to indicate the place of manufacture, the degree of purity, and the like; thus, the local mark for London is a lion. 
Silver plate or electroplate is formed when a thin layer of pure or sterling silver is deposited electrolytically on the surface of a base metal. By 1839, scientists in Britain and Russia had independently devised metal deposition processes similar to Brugnatelli's for the copper electroplating of printing press plates. The two common forms of plated silver are Sheffield plate and silverplate/electroplate. Sheffield Plate is a cheaper substitute for sterling, produced by fusing sheets of silver to the top and bottom of a sheet of copper or base metal. This 'silver sandwich' was then worked into finished pieces.
It should be said that the correct definition for punches present on silverplate is MARK, while the term HALLMARK is reserved to sterling silver items submitted to the Hall for verification of their fineness. 
Horn symbol: Mark of James Dixon and Sons that was added in 1886 to the JD&S mark. The 2446 is a number used by James Dixon & Sons and does not relate to our discussion. Most Old Sheffield Plate is not marked but a great deal of silverplate is also not marked so lack of any marking is not definitive. Most of what is generally available in the marketplace today is silverplate, but Old Sheffield plated wares are still around. Lion Passant: Certifies of sterling silver purity. Letter “o”: Year mark (1906). . If you look at a piece of English silver and wonder if it is sterling or if it is plated, it is easy: if it has the Lion Passant, it is sterling; if it does not have the Lion Passant, it is not.
Vehicle registration plates are the mandatory number plates used to display the registration mark of a vehicle, and have existed in the United Kingdom since 1903. 
Plate: A {metal} plate is a flat sheet of metal, usually copper, steel or zinc, used as a matrix for a print. Metal plates are used for intaglio prints and for some lithographs. Platemark: A platemark is the rectangular ridge created in the paper of a print by the edge of an intaglio plate. A blind stamp (also chop mark) is an embossed seal impressed onto a print as a distinguishing mark by the artist, the publisher, an institution, or a collector. Block: A {wood} block is a piece of wood
1plate mark. This word doesn't usually appear in our free dictionary, but the definition from our premium Unabridged Dictionary is offered here on a limited basis. Note that some information is displayed differently in the Unabridged. To access the complete Unabridged Dictionary, with an additional 300,000 words that aren't in our free dictionary, start a free trial.