Venus is the second planet from the Sun. Venus is the hottest planet in the Solar System, though it is not the closest to the Sun, in which said title goes to the planet Mercury. The reason that this planet is hot is due to Venus' dense atmosphere. Venus' atmosphere is mostly made of carbon dioxide which heats the atmosphere. This causes the greenhouse effect, which makes Venus the hottest planet in the Solar System. The temperature of Venus can reach nine hundred degrees Fahrenheit.
Venus and Earth are often called twins because they are similar in size, mass, density, composition and gravity. However, the similarities end there. [ Photos: Venus, the Mysterious Planet Next Door ]. Venus is the hottest world in the solar system. Although Venus is not the planet closest to the sun, its dense atmosphere traps heat in a runaway version of the greenhouse effect that warms Earth. As a result, temperatures on Venus reach 870 degrees Fahrenheit (465 degrees Celsius), more than hot enough to melt lead. 
Although it is the second planet from the sun, Venus is the hottest planet in the solar system. The reason Venus is hotter than even Mercury is not because of its position in the solar system but because of its thick, dense cloud layer. 
Report Abuse. Venus is the hottest planet because it's atmosphere is in a runaway greenhouse state. According the theory, the Earth is similar to Venus, and contains about as much carbon in it's rocks as Venus does in its atmosphere. Carbon in Venus's atmosphere traps heat like CO2 does on earth. 
Venus, the hottest planet in the solar system. Venus is the second closest planet to the Sun. Telescopes reveal little about the planet due to global cloud cover. Venus' mass and volume are quite similar to Earth's (Venus' mass is 81.5% of Earth's and its volume is 86% of Earth's). Its almost circular orbital period is 224.7 Earth days. A 0.76 albedo makes Venus the brightest planet, earning it the nickname 'the Morning Star'.
Mercury sure is hot, but Venus is hotter. Venus is much further from the Sun, orbiting at a distance of more than 108 million kilometers. Average temperature there is a hellish 735 Kelvin, or 462 degrees Celsius – hot enough to melt lead. You might think it’s Mercury, the planet closest to the Sun. Mercury orbits at a distance of only 58 million kilometers, travelling in a blast-furnace of scorching radiation. Its temperature can skyrocket to 700 Kelvin, or 426 degrees Celsius on the sunward side.
The hottest planet in our solar system is Venus, When it comes to temperature, distance from the Sun matters, but it takes a backseat to wrapping a planet in a atmospheric blanket of carbon dioxide. We release this explainer videos every Monday and Thursday from the Universe Today YouTube Channel. You might think it’s Mercury, the planet closest to the Sun. Mercury orbits at a distance of only 58 million kilometers, travelling in a blast-furnace of scorching radiation. Its temperature can skyrocket to 700 Kelvin, or 426 degrees Celsius on the sunward side.
The atmospheric pressure at the planet's surface is 92 times that of Earth's. With a mean surface temperature of 735 K (462 °C; 863 °F), Venus is by far the hottest planet in the Solar System, even though Mercury is closer to the Sun. Venus is shrouded by an opaque layer of highly reflective clouds of sulfuric acid, preventing its surface from being seen from space in visible light. Venus is one of the four terrestrial planets in the Solar System, meaning that, like Earth, it is a rocky body. In size and mass, it is similar to Earth, and is often described as Earth's sister or twin. The diameter of Venus is 12,092 km (only 650 km less than Earth's) and its mass is 81.5%
Mercury is the planet that is closest to the sun and therefore gets more direct heat, but even it isn’t the hottest. Venus is the second planet from the sun and has a temperature that is maintained at 462 degrees Celsius, no matter where you go on the planet. It is the hottest planet in the solar system. 