1 An ignition lock cylinder averages about $50-$250 for just the part, but can cost $10-$700 or more, depending on the make and model of vehicle and whether the part is aftermarket (produced by a company other than the vehicle manufacturer) or OEM (produced by the vehicle manufacturer). Comments (11). The ignition lock cylinder is the part the key fits into; in addition to being a first step in the process that starts the vehicle or activates the windshield wipers, radio, cigarette lighter and other components, the ignition lock cylinder makes theft more difficult.
1 For example, Autozone charges $39 for an aftermarket ignition switch for a 2008 Honda Accord, $37 for a 2008 Dodge Ram 1500 truck, $52 for a 2008 Ford Focus and $294 for a 2008 Lexus LS640. 2  OEM parts from a dealership typically cost more than aftermarket products. 1 If the ignition switch has shorted out, the surrounding wires may be melted or burned, and will also need to be replaced, which will increase the total cost slightly. 2  An ignition switch can be replaced by a car dealership, an independent repair shop, or car-repair chains like Pep Boys or Sears.
1 Installing an ignition switch typically takes 1-1.5 hours, at $50-$120 an hour, depending on local rates and whether the work is done at an independent or chain repair shop, or a dealership (typically the most expensive). 1 If the ignition switch has shorted out, the surrounding wires may be melted or burned, and will also need to be replaced, which will increase the total cost slightly. 2  An ignition switch can be replaced by a car dealership, an independent repair shop, or car-repair chains like Pep Boys or Sears.
The ignition switch serves to send power from the battery. When you turn your key to turn on your vehicle, the ignition switch takes power from the battery and sends it to the starter, which allows your vehicle to turn on. When the ignition switch goes bad, your car may not start and the accessories (lights, radio, etc.) may not work. Replacing an ignition switch can be as simple as removing a few screws to access the ignition switch, or as complicated as removing the whole steering column.
Our recommendation: The battery feeds power to ignition switch, so it is important for the ignition system that the battery is in good condition. Don't put too much weight on your key ring because this can damage the key and the tumbler part of the ignition switch. When the ignition switch goes bad, your car may not start and the accessories (lights, radio, etc.) may not work. Replacing an ignition switch can be as simple as removing a few screws to access the ignition switch, or as complicated as removing the whole steering column.
The average cost for an ignition lock cylinder replacement is between $355 to $506. Labor costs are estimated between $174 to $220 while parts are priced between $181 to $286. Get a personalized estimate based on your location and specific car. 
The ignition lock assembly contains two components: a lock cylinder to deter theft and an electrical portion that supplies power to electrical components such as the radio, electric windows, and windshield wipers. The electrical portion of the ignition switch also provides power to the starter motor to start the engine. To replace the ignition switch cylinder lock, the trim panels around the steering wheel are removed. Then the tamper-proof hardware that attaches the ignition lock assembly to the steering column is removed. The ignition lock assembly is removed from the steering column, and the lock cylinder is replaced.
1 The exact procedure varies by vehicle, but but for some vehicles replacing an ignition switch requires disassembling the plastic steering column covers. 2  A mechanic provides a video demonstration of replacing an ignition switch on a Saturn S series. 3  About.com explains how to determine if the ignition switch is bad. 1 If the ignition switch has shorted out, the surrounding wires may be melted or burned, and will also need to be replaced, which will increase the total cost slightly. 2  An ignition switch can be replaced by a car dealership, an independent repair shop, or car-repair chains like Pep Boys or Sears.
A starter is an electrical motor that is connected to the battery. The job of a starter is to set the engine (pistons, crankshaft, etc.) in motion when you turn the ignition switch on. Once the engine starts and is in motion, the job of starter is done. 