A shield volcano is a type of volcano usually built almost entirely of fluid magma flows. They are named for their large size and low profile, resembling a warrior's shield lying on the ground. This is caused by the highly fluid lava they erupt, which travels farther than lava erupted from stratovolcanoes. Eruptions on shield volcanoes are far less explosive than those on composite volcanoes. That is because the basalt lava that erupts from shield volcanoes contains less silica, SiO 2, and is therefore less sticky (less viscous) and doesn't plug up the volcano.
One of the two most important types of volcanoes, shield volcanoes are large and broad and have relatively gentle slopes. Kilauea on the island of Hawaii is good example of a shield volcano. Eruptions on shield volcanoes are far less explosive than those on composite volcanoes. That is because the basalt lava that erupts from shield volcanoes contains less silica, SiO 2, and is therefore less sticky (less viscous) and doesn't plug up the volcano.
Shield volcano. When magma is very hot and runny, gases can escape and eruptions are gentle with considerable amounts of magma reaching the surface to form lava flows. Shield volcanoes have a broad, flattened dome-like shape created by layers of runny lava flowing over its surface and cooling. 
A shield volcano is a type of volcano that has been formed by lava flow. Shield volcanoes are large and wide with a low profile. The crater at the volcano is not far above sea level in comparison to a composite volcano. Most shield volcanoes are super-volcanoes. A shield volcano is a volcano with shallow-sloping sides. Shield volcanoes are formed from fluid lava that can travel long distances across slight inclines, resulting in their relatively flat, broad profile. In contrast, steeply sloped stratovolcanoes better match the popular stereotype of a volcano. 
Shield Volcanoes. Shield volcanoes are the largest volcanoes on Earth that actually look like volcanoes (i.e. not counting flood basalt flows). The Hawaiian shield volcanoes are the most famous examples. Shield volcanoes are almost exclusively basalt, a type of lava that is very fluid when erupted. For this reason these volcanoes are not steep (you can't pile up a fluid that easily runs downhill). 
Mauna Kea, Hawaiʻi, a shield volcano on the Big Island of Hawaii. A shield volcano is a type of volcano usually built almost entirely of fluid magma flows. They are named for their large size and low profile, resembling a warrior's shield lying on the ground. This is caused by the highly fluid lava they erupt, which travels farther than lava erupted from stratovolcanoes. Shield volcanoes are distinguished from the three other major volcanic archetypes— stratovolcanoes, lava domes, and cinder cones —by their structural form, a consequence of their unique magmatic composition.
The Mauna Loa volcano on the Big Island of Hawaii, seen here in both a oblique and satellite views, is the world's largest shield volcano: Mauna Loa from the southeast Mauna Loa satellite view. Mauna Loa from the southeast. Mauna Loa satellite view. Shield volcanoes are generated by Hawaiian eruptions. 
Shield Volcano Facts. A shield volcano resembles the appearance of a Hawaiian warrior’s shield in that they have a low-angle profile. In almost all cases the comparison to a shield is done because the width of these volcanoes is typically around 20 times the size of their height. A shield volcano is most likely to form during a lava flow of fluid basaltic material, usually those that flow down from either a flank fissure system or the summit itself. The most common type of shield volcano is those that form during one long-term eruption.