The two gonadotropin hormones are called the luteinizing hormone and the follicle-stimulating hormone. These help the testes and ovaries produce male and female sex hormones, as well as eggs and sperm--the follicle in this case isn't hair, but ovarian follicles that function as protective sacs for eggs.
Hair growth is regulated by hormonal changes in the body. These hormones can affect not only how much grows, but whether growth stops and no new hair grows. The processes that regulate how much does or doesn't grow, and what type of hair grows, can go awry and cause abnormal hair growth, as well.
Body hair growth is governed by the action of sex hormones on the hair follicles. Not only are the absolute levels of sex hormones in the blood important but also the sensitivity of the hair follicles to the hormones.
Hirsutism (or hirsutes) is the term used for increased hair growth in women. It refers to a male pattern of hair, i.e. in the moustache and beard areas (chin), or occurring more thickly than usual on the limbs.
INTRODUCTION. Hirsutism is the excessive growth of facial or body hair on women. Hirsutism can be seen as coarse, dark hair that may appear on the face, chest, lower abdomen, back, upper arms, or upper legs. Hirsutism is a symptom of medical disorders associated with the hormones called androgens.
1 It is interesting that an excess of male hormones or androgens in a woman’s body can both lead to male patterned baldness as well as an excess growth of hair on the body. 2  This condition is known as hirsutism.
Thyroid hormones and hair growth. Little is known about the mode of action for thyroid hormones on hair follicles, but it is clear that hair follicles are very sensitive to thyroid hormone levels.
Find synonyms Find exact match. HIRSUTISM OVERVIEW. Hirsutism refers to the growth of coarse, dark hair in areas where women typically grow fine hair or no hair at all: above the lip and on the chin, chest, abdomen, and back. This excess hair growth is caused by an increased level of male hormones (androgens).