If the exam is normal, a colonoscopy should be repeated every 10 years up to the age of 75. If the test detects precancerous polyps, the physician will recommend that colonoscopies be repeated more frequently. 
Colonoscopy can also be used as a screening test to check for cancer or precancerous growths in the colon or rectum (polyps). The colonoscope is a thin, flexible tube that ranges from 48 in. (125 cm) to 72 in. A small video camera is attached to the colonoscope so that your doctor can take pictures or video of the large intestine (colon). The colonoscope can be used to look at the whole colon and the lower part of the small intestine. A test called sigmoidoscopy shows only the rectum and the lower part of the colon.
The age at which you should get your colonoscopy is sometimes known as your “colonoscopy age.” Adults who are at average risk for colon cancer should have a baseline colonoscopy at the age of 50 and every 10 years thereafter if the colonoscopy is clear, but age 50 is not the magic number for all people. For example: Being of African American descent is one risk factor that lowers colonoscopy age. African Americans should be screened for colon cancer at age 45 because of higher incidence of colon cancer. Having a family history of colon cancer or colon polyps.
Having a first-degree relative (a parent, sibling or child) with colon cancer or polyps puts you at higher risk. The rule of thumb is that if any first-degree relative was diagnosed with colon cancer or polyps, you should be screened 10 years before the youngest case in the immediate family. For example, if your mother was diagnosed at age 45 with colon cancer, you should have your first screening at age 35. Recent studies are showing that family history plays a more important role than previously thought. For example: Being of African American descent is one risk factor that lowers colonoscopy age. African Americans should be screened for colon cancer at age 45 because of higher incidence of colon cancer. Having a family history of colon cancer or colon polyps.
Persons who are at an increased risk should have a colonoscopy at age 40. If a family member was younger than age 50 when diagnosed with colon cancer, you should have the colonoscopy 10 years earlier than the age of that person when diagnosed.
Colon cancer screening should begin at age 50 for most people. If a colonoscopy doesn’t find adenomas or cancer and you don’t have risk factors, the next test should be in ten years. If one or two small, low-risk adenomas are removed, the exam should be repeated in five to ten years. 
Most doctors agree that everyone age 50 and older should have a routine colonoscopy. The next one depends on what the doctor finds. If you are all clear, without a single polyp or other growth, and you continue to be symptom-free, then you probably don’t need another procedure for at least 10 years. 
If you're 50 or older and at average risk for colon cancer, there's now a noninvasive screening option. Cologuard is an easy-to-use stool DNA test that can be used in the privacy of your own home. Just collect a single sample, then return the kit to our lab via prepaid UPS shipping. 
High Risk. The recommended age for a colonoscopy for people in this category is sometimes as young as 20 to 25 years. People at high risk for colon cancer are normally under the care of a specialist who makes the recommendation for a colonoscopy on the basis of careful monitoring and observation. If a family member was younger than age 50 when diagnosed with colon cancer, you should have the colonoscopy 10 years earlier than the age of that person when diagnosed.
The age at which you should have your first colonoscopy varies according to your level of risk for developing colon cancer. Guidelines developed collaboratively by the American Cancer Society, the American College of Radiology and the U .S. If a family member was younger than age 50 when diagnosed with colon cancer, you should have the colonoscopy 10 years earlier than the age of that person when diagnosed.