Humus has a characteristic black or dark brown color and is organic due to an accumulation of organic carbon. Soil scientists use the capital letters O, A, B, C, and E to identify the master horizons, and lowercase letters for distinctions of these horizons. Most humus that is not protected in this way is decomposed within ten years and can be regarded as less stable or more labile. Thus stable humus contributes little to the pool of plant-available nutrients in the soil, but it does play a part in maintaining its physical structure.
Adorable animal families that will make you aww. Humus soil is soil made up of decayed organic material. Popularly, it refers to soil that is light in texture, dark brown or black in color, and sweet-smelling. It is considered the richest soil and is usually described as the ideal soil type. Colloquially, humus can refer to any organic soil matter. It is often confused with compost, since the two can look alike. Finished compost should bear little to no resemblance to the original material that went into it and, like humus, compost has a light texture, dark color, and sweet-scent.
Humus significantly influences the bulk density of soil and contributes to moisture and nutrient retention. Soil formation begins with the weathering of humus. In agriculture, humus is sometimes also used to describe mature, or natural compost extracted from a forest or other spontaneous source for use to amend soil. Most humus that is not protected in this way is decomposed within ten years and can be regarded as less stable or more labile. Thus stable humus contributes little to the pool of plant-available nutrients in the soil, but it does play a part in maintaining its physical structure.
Humus is not a soil type but is in fact a mature compost, either made through a composting process or found in nature, such as the rich topsoil found in some forests. Humus is Alive. Humus is not just soil, it is a community of living things. Organic matter is a breeding ground for many types of microbes, including bacteria and fungi which break down plant material, and for other microorganisms that help plants roots absorb necessary nutrients.
Humus is inactive organic material, usually decomposed plants. Most soil has humus in varying amounts, which gives it the distinctive dark brown color. Humus is complex and is made up of a variety of substances that have decomposed to the point of being impossible to identify. Humus makes garden soil rich and provides nutrients to growing plants.
The word humus is used to describe several soil components or additions including ready-to-use homemade or store-bought compost, naturally occurring compost obtained from a forest, vermicompost (organic matter processed by earthworms) or even topsoil that contains a large percentage of organic matter. 
In soil science, humus (coined 1790–1800; from the Latin humus: earth, ground) refers to the fraction of soil organic matter that is amorphous and without the cellular structure characteristic of plants, micro-organisms or animals.. Most humus that is not protected in this way is decomposed within ten years and can be regarded as less stable or more labile. Thus stable humus contributes little to the pool of plant-available nutrients in the soil, but it does play a part in maintaining its physical structure.
Humus improves soil texture and planting conditions. Clay soil tends to clump, while sandy soil is too loose. Adding 1 to 2 inches of humus to the top of most soils and working it in will produce an improved planting medium that's texturally more sound, aiding in garden success. Humus is complex and is made up of a variety of substances that have decomposed to the point of being impossible to identify. Humus makes garden soil rich and provides nutrients to growing plants.