Meaning of Jack. English name. In English, the name Jack means-god is gracious. Other origins for the name Jack include-English, Hebrew.The name Jack is most often used as a boy name or male name. English Name Meaning-god is gracious.
Jack /jack/ [1 syll.] as a boys' name is pronounced jak. It is of Old English and Hebrew origin, and the meaning of Jack is God is gracious; he who supplants. Name based on John (Hebrew), or Jacques, the French form of Jacob (Hebrew). The name has a rugged, down-to-earth aura. Jackie is used more for girls than for boys
American Meaning: The name Jack is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Jack is: Henry VI, Part 2' Jack Cade, a rebel. Hebrew Meaning: The name Jack is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Jack is: Supplanter. Polish Meaning: The name Jack is a Polish baby name. In Polish the meaning of the name Jack is: God is gracious. English Meaning: The name Jack is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Jack is: God is gracious. During the Middle Ages, Jack was so common that it was used as a general term for 'man' or 'boy'. Famous Bearer: American actor Jack Lemmon
Meanings and history of the name Jack : | Edit. Meanings of the name Jack. Hebrew: Supplanter. Polish: God is gracious. English: God is gracious. Fact: During the Middle Ages, Jack was so common that it was used as a general term for 'man' or 'boy'. Origin of the name Jack: Originally a pet form of John (God is gracious) and Jackson (son of Jack), Jack is now often be-stowed as an independent given name. Pet: Jackie, Jacky. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman
It is often regarded as an independent name. During the Middle Ages it was very common, and it became a slang word meaning man. It was frequently used in fairy tales and nursery rhymes, such as 'Jack and the Beanstalk', 'Little Jack Horner', and 'Jack Sprat'. 
According to the United States Census of 1990, Jack is an uncommon American name, the given name for 0.315% of the male population and 0.001% of the female population. However, the frequency of use of Jack as a baby name has steadily increased from the 160–170 rank prior to 1991 to a rank of 35 in 2006. Jack is thought to harken back to Medieval times as a common derivative of the name John. The nickname has also been seen as Jackie among men (examples of note: Jackie Coogan, Jackie Cooper, and Jackie Gleason, all formally named John).