The main organs of the UN are the General Assembly, the Security Council, the Economic and Social Council, the Trusteeship Council, the International Court of Justice, and the UN Secretariat. All were established in 1945 when the UN was founded. About the UN Description goes here. In 1945, nations were in ruins. World War II was over, and the world wanted peace. 51 countries gathered in San Francisco that year to sign a document. The document was a Charter, creating a new organization, the United Nations. 70 years later, the United Nations is maintaining international peace and security. I
Member States. Each of the 193 Member States of the United Nations is a member of the General Assembly. States are admitted to membership in the UN by a decision of the General Assembly upon the recommendation of the Security Council. About the UN Description goes here. In 1945, nations were in ruins. World War II was over, and the world wanted peace. 51 countries gathered in San Francisco that year to sign a document. The document was a Charter, creating a new organization, the United Nations. 70 years later, the United Nations is maintaining international peace and security. I
The United Nations is an international organization designed to make the enforcement of international law, security, economic development, social progress, and human rights easier for countries around the world. Prior to the United Nations (UN), the League of Nations was the international organization responsible for ensuring peace and cooperation between world nations. It was founded in 1919 to promote international cooperation and to achieve peace and security..
- To maintain international peace and security. - To develop friendly relationships among nations. - To coperate in solving international problems. - To promote human rights. - To be a centre for helping nations. - To respect the principle of equal rights. The United Nations replaced the League of Nations, which was established after the end of World War I, or The Great War.
The United Nations is an organization of representatives made up of representatives from countries all over the world organized to keep peace in the world. They meet at … the UN Building in New York City. The United Nations replaced the League of Nations, which was established after the end of World War I, or The Great War.
The united nation is an international organization that was formed in the year 1945 that was immediately after the World War II, as a replacement to the League of Nations, which had experienced a great reduction of its influence in Europe. 
The United Nations (UN) is an intergovernmental organization to promote international co-operation. A replacement for the ineffective League of Nations, the organization was established on 24 October 1945 after World War II in order to prevent another such conflict. At its founding, the UN had 51 member states; there are now 193. The headquarters of the United Nations is in Manhattan, New York City, and experiences extraterritoriality. Further main offices are situated in Geneva, Nairobi and Vienna.
The Secretary-General of the United Nations is a symbol of the Organization's ideals and a spokesman for the interests of the world's peoples, in particular the poor and vulnerable. About the UN Description goes here. In 1945, nations were in ruins. World War II was over, and the world wanted peace. 51 countries gathered in San Francisco that year to sign a document. The document was a Charter, creating a new organization, the United Nations. 70 years later, the United Nations is maintaining international peace and security. I
The United Nations is an international organization founded in 1945. It is currently made up of 193 Member States. The mission and work of the United Nations are guided by the purposes and principles contained in its founding Charter. About the UN Description goes here. In 1945, nations were in ruins. World War II was over, and the world wanted peace. 51 countries gathered in San Francisco that year to sign a document. The document was a Charter, creating a new organization, the United Nations. 70 years later, the United Nations is maintaining international peace and security. I
The United Nations is an organization made up of several different countries. The purpose of the United Nations is to promote international peace. The United Nations was found … ed in 1945. The United Nations replaced the League of Nations, which was established after the end of World War I, or The Great War.