Moles larger than around 6mm are also a concern. If your mole changes its shape, size or colour, this could also be a sign of skin cancer. Another thing to look out for is rough edges on the mole, as normally they are outlined smoothly. Inconsistency in the colour of your mole is also a sign of cancer. They can be tan, brown, dark brown or black and are usually smaller than the width of a pencil eraser. However, some do have the capacity to turn into skin cancer moles. This is why it's always a good idea to know what a normal mole looks like, so you can check if there have been any changes to yours.
Melanoma is not as common as other types of skin cancer, but it's the most serious and potentially deadly. Possible signs of melanoma include a change in the appearance of a mole or pigmented area. A mole (nevus) is a benign growth of melanocytes, cells that gives skin its color. Although very few moles become cancer, abnormal or atypical moles can develop into melanoma over time. Normal moles can appear flat or raised or may begin flat and become raised over time. The surface is typically smooth.
The Warning Signs of Skin Cancer. Skin cancers -- including melanoma, basal cell carcinoma, and squamous cell carcinoma -- often start as changes to your skin. They can be new growths or precancerous lesions -- changes that are not cancer but could become cancer over time. A mole (nevus) is a benign growth of melanocytes, cells that gives skin its color. Although very few moles become cancer, abnormal or atypical moles can develop into melanoma over time. Normal moles can appear flat or raised or may begin flat and become raised over time. The surface is typically smooth.
Moles: If you have a mole, you will see mounds of dirt and/or surface tunnels: 1  Dirt mounds (look like piles or puffs of dirt shaped like a volcano). 2  Surface tunnels (look like the veins on the back of your hand). 
A common mole (nevus) is a small growth on the skin that is usually pink, tan, or brown and has a distinct edge. A dysplastic nevus is often large and does not have a round or oval shape or a distinct edge. It may have a mixture of pink, tan, or brown shades. People who have many dysplastic nevi have a greater chance than others of developing melanoma, a dangerous form of skin cancer. However, most dysplastic nevi do not turn into melanoma. If the color, size, shape, or height of a mole changes or if it starts to itch, bleed, or ooze, people should tell their doctor. People should also tell their doctor if they see a new mole that doesn't look like their other moles. The photos below show the difference between common moles and dysplastic nevi
Removing a Skin Mole. Most moles are harmless and do not need to be removed. But if your dermatologist thinks your mole looks suspicious, or if you would like to have the mole removed for cosmetic reasons, it can usually be done quite easily. When you examine your moles, remember the ABCDEs of melanoma. If you notice any of the following, consult your doctor or dermatologist: 1  A for asymmetry: A mole in which one half of the mole does not look like the other. 2  B for irregular border: A mole with a scalloped or poorly defined border.
Melanoma is a cancer that begins in a melanocyte. It often looks like a mole but is not a mole. If it is diagnosed early, patients have a high survival rate [source: ACS ]. Early diagnosis is possible, especially if you maintain a schedule of frequent self-exams and regular doctor visits. The trick is in knowing what to look for
Cancerous moles will probably look different than the rest of your moles. Look for moles that have changed shape or bleed. If they're asymmetrical, larger than a pencil eraser or differently colored throughout, these may be signs that the mole isn't healthy. You should always have a doctor examine any moles that look like this. Use a sunscreen and wear protective clothing to safeguard your skin from the sun's harmful rays.