The primary difference between transcription and DNA replication is that only a single strand of mRNA is produced during transcription. During DNA replication both strands need to be copied and DNA polymerase needs to work on both strands at the same time.
Gene expression begins with the process called transcription, which is the synthesis of a strand of mRNA that is complementary to the gene of interest. This process is called transcription because the mRNA is like a transcript, or copy, of the gene’s DNA code.
During transcription, the enzyme RNA polymerase (green) uses DNA as a template to produce a pre-mRNA transcript (pink). The pre-mRNA is processed to form a mature mRNA molecule that can be translated to build the protein molecule (polypeptide) encoded by the original gene.
The flow of genetic information in cells is therefore from DNA to RNA to Protein. Genetic information directs the synthesis of proteinFrom DNA to RNA Transcription and translations are the means by which cells read out or express their genetic instructions (their genes).
During transcription, the enzyme RNA polymerase synthesizes a strand of messenger RNA (mRNA) using one strand of the gene as a template. mRNA is synthesized using nucleotides that contain the bases A, C, G, and U (instead of T), which pair with the complementary bases of the DNA template strand.
DNA is divided into functional units called genes. A gene (def) is a segment of DNA that codes for a functional product (mRNA, tRNA, or rRNA). Since the vast majority of genes are transcribed into mRNA and mRNA is subsequently translated into polypeptides or proteins, most genes code for protein synthesis.
The starting point for transcription, where RNA polymerase unwinds the DNA and begins to make a complementary mRNA copy, is the promoter site; the region of DNA that is the endpoint of transcription is the terminator site; mRNA is synthesized in the 5’ to 3’ direction.
Transcription starts when RNA polymerase unwinds the DNA segment. One strand, referred to as the coding strand, becomes the template with the genes to be coded. The polymerase then aligns the correct nucleic acid (A, C, G, or U) with its complementary base on the coding strand of DNA.
There are three steps that characterize DNA-directed RNA synthesis: Spontaneous termination of gene transcription is signaled by termination sequences.In E.coli, the final signal to stop transcription is a series of 4 - 10 A-T base pairings with the A s on the template strand.