1 Get all Area Codes and NXX data for North America. 2  NC ZIP Code Map. 3  The NC ZIP Code Map shows all 5 digit zip code boundaries for NC using clean, practical map colors and styles. 4  MECKLENBURG County, NC ZIP Code Map. 5  The MECKLENBURG County NC ZIP Code Map shows all 5 digit zip code boundaries for MECKLENBURG County NC. 1 ZIP Code Database. 2  Get all US ZIP Codes and their information in one easy to use database. 3  ZIP+4 ZIP Code Database. 4  Covering every address in the U.S., get the +4 information you need. 5  Canadian Postal Code Database. 6  Get all Canadian Postal
As a joint civil-military facility, the airport is home to Charlotte Air National Guard Base (Charlotte ANGB) and its host unit, the 145th Airlift Wing (145 AW) of the North Carolina Air National Guard, located in a military cantonment area on the east side of the airport. Charlotte Douglas International Airport is one of a small number of major hub airports in the world which has an aviation museum located on the field.
Charlotte Douglas International Airport is one of the few airports in the US that has a public viewing area. Here, visitors can watch planes take off, land and taxi to and from runway 18C/36C. It is credited with having one of the best airport views in the United States. Charlotte Douglas International Airport is one of a small number of major hub airports in the world which has an aviation museum located on the field.
704 and 980. Charlotte, NC utilizes an area code overlay in which area codes 704 and 980 serve the same geographic area. Ten digit dialing (area code + seven digit number) is necessary. In addition to Charlotte, NC area code information read more about area codes 704 and 980 details and North Carolina area codes. Charlotte, NC is located in Mecklenburg County and observes the Eastern Time Zone. View our Times by Area Code tool
Area codes 704 and 980 cover Charlotte and all or part of 12 surrounding counties in south-central North Carolina. Other major cities in the service area are Gastonia, Kannapolis, Concord, Mooresville, Salisbury and Statesville. The South Carolina side of the Charlotte metropolitan area is part of area code 803. The main area code, 704, is one of the original 86 Numbering Plan Areas assigned in 1947. At that time it covered the entire state of North Carolina. In 1998, most of the western portion of the old 704 territory, including the Foothills and Blue Ridge, were split off to create area code 828, leaving 704 to cover the Charlotte area. Within two years, however, 704 was close to exhaustion once again due to the proliferation of cell phones and pagers.
In 1954, Winston-Salem and points east were split off to create area code 919, leaving 704 to cover the western half of the state from Charlotte to the Blue Ridge Mountains. In 1998, most of the western portion of the old 704 territory, including the Foothills and Blue Ridge, were split off to create area code 828, leaving 704 to cover the Charlotte area. Within two years, however, 704 was close to exhaustion once again due to the proliferation of cell phones and pagers.
Link to this page: Each of the 8 area codes in North Carolina are listed below. The North Carolina area code listing below lists area codes in several sections. First, NC area codes by city are shown for the largest cities in North Carolina. Next, the list shows North Carolina area codes by number. If you still can't find what you are looking for and the searches below do not help, the area code finder on our home page may be what you are looking for. Area code 984 is an overlay area code for area code 919. The two area codes serve the same area.