By Bryan Fischer. This week has been Cesar Chavez week at Boise State University, as our local campus celebrates the legacy of one of the three men to have his birthday celebrated as an official holiday in California (the other two: Jesus Christ and Martin Luther King, Jr.). According to a 2006 article in The American Conservative by Steve Sailer, although Chavez's union, the United Farm Workers, did manage to raise wages significantly for stoop laborers from 1965 to 1981, those gains have largely disappeared for one reason: illegal immigration.
Chavez demanded that the federal government close the border, routinely reported suspected illegal immigrants to immigration officials, and put his brother in charge of Minutemen-like border patrols which on more than one occasion resulted in the beatings of intruders. According to a 2006 article in The American Conservative by Steve Sailer, although Chavez's union, the United Farm Workers, did manage to raise wages significantly for stoop laborers from 1965 to 1981, those gains have largely disappeared for one reason: illegal immigration.
Watch the full length Cesar Chavez segment below. While Cesar Chavez has become one of the most iconic Latino civil rights leaders in U.S. history, his stance on the issue of illegal immigration didn't always reflect the dominant attitude among today's Hispanics. As a union organizer, Chavez worried that that employers would recruit undocumented immigrants to break strikes. By the 1980s, however, Chavez had become a supporter of immigration reform and backed the 1986 bill signed by President Ronald Reagan that legalized the status of nearly 3 million people.
Yes, Virginia: Not only was Cesar Chavez against illegal immigration, not only did he speak out against the Mexican invasion before Congress, not only did United Farm Workers members monitor the United States-Mexico border a à la The, minutemen But chavez even sicced la migra on the undocumented from time to. time The curious case of Chavez and his evolving views on illegal immigration is best explained in University of California, San Diego professor David G. Gutierrez's 1995 book, Walls and Mirrors: Mexican Americans, Mexican Immigrants, and the Politics of Ethnicity.
Cesar Chavez Against Illegals. The UFW during Chavez'chávez s tenure was committed to restricting. Immigration Cesar césar Chavez Chávez and dolores Huerta Fought the bracero program that existed from. 1942 to 1964 their opposition stemmed from their belief that THE program undermined us workers and exploited. the migrant workers In 1979 testimony to Congress, Chavez complained, ... when the farm workers strike and their strike is successful, the employers go to Mexico and have unlimited, unrestricted use of illegal alien strikebreakers to break the strike.
In 1969, Chavez actually led a march to the Mexican border to protest illegal immigration, accompanied by Sen. Walter Mondale and Ralph Abernathy, whom alert readers will recognize as Martin Luther King's successor as head of the Southern Leadership Conference. According to a 2006 article in The American Conservative by Steve Sailer, although Chavez's union, the United Farm Workers, did manage to raise wages significantly for stoop laborers from 1965 to 1981, those gains have largely disappeared for one reason: illegal immigration.
That’s likely because the National Farm Workers Association cofounder was strongly against illegal immigration. “Cesar Chavez” actress America Ferrera and director Diego Luna during the 64th Berlinale International Film Festival, Feb. 12, 2014 in Berlin. On Nov. 5, 2009, then-Rep. Brian Bilbray (R-Calif.) noted Chavez’s activism against illegal border crossings on the House floor. “Cesar Chavez was probably a good, well, 20 years ahead of his time,” Bilbray said. “In fact, Cesar Chavez in 1969 led the first march on the Mexican border to protest illegal immigration.
Conservative scholar and talk radio host Mark Levin reminded Americans, including left-wing liberals and even some Republicans, that the late labor leader Cesar Chavez did not think it was compassionate to enable and encourage illegal immigration. Chavez, who was also against ethnic organizations like La Raza, would tell illegal immigrants to get out of the country, especially because they lowered the wages of American workers.
If so, then the movie isn't really about Cesar Chavez because he did not support illegal aliens flooding into the U.S.A. and causing his farm workers to compete with them for low pay. In fact, Chavez would find illegal aliens and turn them in to immigration. The pro-amnesty for illegal alien people think they can use the movie about Cesar Chavez to spark more support for amnesty for the 12 million illegal aliens in