Many hospitals prefer to hire a CLC certified child life specialist. 1  Meet the eligibility requirements, which include a bachelor's degree with 10 classes in child development, education, social work, nursing or related fields. 2  Provide verification of completion of a 480-hour internship in a child life department. 1 Consider earning a master's degree. 2  Child life specialists who wish to advance in the field, such as managing a child life department, may need
Online programs in child and family development, consumer and family sciences, child studies and child life, which meet academic requirements to become a child life specialist, are available at the bachelor's and master's degree levels. Through bachelor's degree programs preparing you for a career as a child life specialist, you'll learn to provide for children's emotional, intellectual, social and physical needs. You'll interact with children who are sick and provide comfort and care to them.
Many colleges and universities have a child life specialist program that awards a bachelor's degree. If the chosen school does not have a specific curriculum in child life, a student must complete a bachelor's degree in a related field. 
Apply for certification if it is mandatory in your state. Find out about child life certification in your state by contacting The Child Life Council, 11820 Parklawn Drive #3202, Rockville, MD. You must complete either an internship or a certain number of hours volunteering in a child life program to become certified. 
How to Become a Child Life Specialist in 5 Steps. Research what it takes to become a child life specialist. Learn about the education, training, job outlook and salary information to find out if this is the career for you. Schools offering Child Care Services degrees can also be found in these popular choices. Step 2: Earn Your Degree. According to the Child Life Council (CLC), child life specialists generally earn a bachelor's or master's degree in education, psychology or human growth and development (www.childlife.org).
Most employers require child life specialists to have a minimum of a bachelor's degree. Some colleges and universities offer programs in child life, but other acceptable majors include child and family studies, psychology, child development, recreational therapy and early childhood education. The CCLS credential currently is the only one in the field. In order to obtain it, applicants must hold a bachelor's degree, take coursework in child life or a related topic, complete 480 hours of clinical work and pass an exam (www.childlife.org).
After passing the certification exam, you become a certified child life specialist. As a child life specialist, you'll be responsible for working with children with acute or chronic illnesses as they work through their illnesses and the recovery process. Through bachelor's degree programs preparing you for a career as a child life specialist, you'll learn to provide for children's emotional, intellectual, social and physical needs. You'll interact with children who are sick and provide comfort and care to them.
No, you do not need a degree in child life in order to become a child life specialist. For the purposes of Getting Certified, you may have a baccalaureate degree in any subject. If you are interested in obtaining child life services for your child and family at the time of a healthcare encounter, ask your physician or healthcare provider if child life services are appropriate and/or available. The best way to find a child life specialist is to reach out to a hospital-based child life program.
You will need to earn certification to become a child life specialist. The certification is offered by the Child Life Council (www.childlife.org). To earn it, you must have at least a bachelor's degree with ten courses in child life or similar areas and 480 hours of supervised clinical experience in child life. Through bachelor's degree programs preparing you for a career as a child life specialist, you'll learn to provide for children's emotional, intellectual, social and physical needs. You'll interact with children who are sick and provide comfort and care to them.