hypodermic needle a hollow, sharp-pointed needle to be attached to a hypodermic syringe for injection of solutions. knife needle a slender knife with a needle-like point, used in ophthalmic operations. a needle used as a cannula, as for introduction of an intravenous catheter or for passing a suture thread. cataract needle. one used in removing a cataract. discission needle. a two-way needle or cannula which permits flushing and aspiration of liquid cataract material.
hypodermic needle, a short, thin hollow needle that attaches to a syringe for injecting a drug or medication under the skin or into vessels and for withdrawing a fluid, such as blood, for examination. atraumatic needle an eyeless surgical needle with the suture attached to a hollow end. biopsy needle a hollow needle with an inner needle that detaches tissue for biopsy and brings it to the surface of its lumen; types include the Menghini and Silverman needles.
BD Medical-Medical Surgical Systems is a global leader for hypodermic needles and syringes. BD has been a pioneer and leader in developing high-quality, easy-to-use injection devices designed to protect healthcare workers from needlestick injuries and exposure to bloodborne pathogens. 
hypodermic needle, a short, thin hollow needle that attaches to a syringe for injecting a drug or medication under the skin or into vessels and for withdrawing a fluid, such as blood, for examination. (hīpō-dĕrmik nēdĕl). a needle used as a cannula, as for introduction of an intravenous catheter or for passing a suture thread. cataract needle. one used in removing a cataract. discission needle. a two-way needle or cannula which permits flushing and aspiration of liquid cataract material.
Hagedorn's needle a form of flat suture needle. hypodermic needle a hollow, sharp-pointed needle to be attached to a hypodermic syringe for injection of solutions. knife needle a slender knife with a needle-like point, used in ophthalmic operations. atraumatic needle an eyeless surgical needle with the suture attached to a hollow end. biopsy needle a hollow needle with an inner needle that detaches tissue for biopsy and brings it to the surface of its lumen; types include the Menghini and Silverman needles.
A hypodermic needle (from Greek ὑπο- (under-), and δέρμα (skin)) is a hollow needle commonly used with a syringe to inject substances into the body or extract fluids from it. They may also be used to take liquid samples from the body, for example taking blood from a vein in venipuncture. Large bore hypodermic intervention is especially useful in catastrophic blood loss or shock. A hypodermic needle is used for rapid delivery of liquids, or when the injected substance cannot be ingested, either because it would not be absorbed (as with insulin), or because it would harm the liver. There are many possible routes for an injection
(July 2009). The hypodermic needle model (also known as the hypodermic-syringe model, transmission-belt model, or magic bullet theory) is a model of communications suggesting that an intended message is directly received and wholly accepted by the receiver. Similarly, the Hypodermic Needle Model uses the same idea of the shooting paradigm. It suggests that the media injects its messages straight into the passive audience (Croteau, Hoynes 1997). This passive audience is immediately affected by these messages.
Related: hypodermic syringe syringe with needle hypodermic needles 30g syringe 3ml syringes 1ml syringe hypodermic syringe with needle hypodermic needles 18g. Pagination for search results. This is the median price based on sales of this product in the same condition from all listings on ebay.com in the past 14 days, or if there are any insufficient number of listings for a meaningful calculation, the past 90 days.
Related: syringe with needle syringe hypodermic syringe antique hypodermic needle hypodermic needles disposable medical syringe with needle hypodermic needle syringe. 