Chordates. Phylum Chordata. Latin chorda, cord. Members of this phylum, our own, are the best known of all the animals. In fact, in the minds of many people, chordate is synonymous with animal. All mammals, birds, amphibians, reptiles, and fish (that is, the vertebrates), along with several obscure groups of animals (including some invertebrates), belong to this phylum.
Phylum Chordata. Latin chorda, cord. Members of this phylum, our own, are the best known of all the animals. In fact, in the minds of many people, chordate is synonymous with animal. All mammals, birds, amphibians, reptiles, and fish (that is, the vertebrates), along with several obscure groups of animals (including some invertebrates), belong to this phylum. 
chordate. n. 1. (Animals) any animal of the phylum Chordata, including the vertebrates and protochordates, characterized by a notochord, dorsal tubular nerve cord, and pharyngeal gill slits. adj. 2. (Animals) of, relating to, or belonging to the Chordata. Chordata, phylum Chordata-comprises true vertebrates and animals having a notochord. cephalochordate-fish-like animals having a notochord rather than a true spinal column. tunicate, urochord, urochordate-primitive marine animal having a saclike unsegmented body and a urochord that is conspicuous in the larva.
Definition of CHORDATE. : any of a phylum (Chordata) of animals having at least at some stage of development a notochord, dorsally situated central nervous system, and gill clefts and including the vertebrates, lancelets, and tunicates. — chordate adjective. See chordate defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT.
Members of the phylum Chordata are bilaterally symmetric, deuterostome coelomates, and the vertebrate chordates display segmentation. Hemichordata, which includes the acorn worms, has been presented as a fourth chordate subphylum, but it now is usually treated as a separate phylum. For the leaf shape, see Cordate. Chordates (/ˈkɔrdeɪts/) are animals possessing a notochord, a hollow dorsal nerve cord, pharyngeal slits, an endostyle, and a post-anal tail for at least some period of their life cycles.
Many people know organisms only by the common names, or vernacular names. Unlike scientific names, common names are almost always different for speakers of different languages. 
Noun. 1. chordate-any animal of the phylum Chordata having a notochord or spinal column. animal, animate being, beast, creature, fauna, brute-a living organism characterized by voluntary movement. Chordata, phylum Chordata-comprises true vertebrates and animals having a notochord. cephalochordate-fish-like animals having a notochord rather than a true spinal column. tunicate, urochord, urochordate-primitive marine animal having a saclike unsegmented body and a urochord that is conspicuous in the larva.
The current consensus is that chordates are monophyletic, meaning that the Chordata include all and only the descendants of a single common ancestor, which is itself a chordate, and that craniates' nearest relatives are cephalochordates. For the leaf shape, see Cordate. Chordates (/ˈkɔrdeɪts/) are animals possessing a notochord, a hollow dorsal nerve cord, pharyngeal slits, an endostyle, and a post-anal tail for at least some period of their life cycles.
Taxonomically, the phylum includes the subphyla Vertebrata, which includes mammals, fish, amphibians, reptiles and birds; Tunicata, which includes salps and sea squirts; and Cephalochordata, comprising the lancelets. For the leaf shape, see Cordate. Chordates (/ˈkɔrdeɪts/) are animals possessing a notochord, a hollow dorsal nerve cord, pharyngeal slits, an endostyle, and a post-anal tail for at least some period of their life cycles.