The melting temperature is when the solder starts to melt, and the flow point occurs when the solder is completely molten. The difference between these two temperatures, or spread, can be from 25°F to more than 100°F. Soft soldering uses very low melting temperature solder alloys, usually of tin and lead, and is not commonly used in fine jewelry. Solder is a nonferrous (without iron) metal alloy, the major percentage of which is usually the same as the metal being joined: gold, silver, copper, or brass.
Best Answer: Common solder for electronics equipment uses Sn63Pb37 solder which melts at 182 to 183 degrees C. If the circuit board is more recent one and it says RoHS compliant then Lead free solder is use which can be 20 degree C higher, i.e. Sn-Ag-Cu (Tin-Silver-Copper) solders needs at least 217 degree C to melt. RE: What temperature does solder (heat) melt at? When i stick a circuit board in the oven (witch you can do) to melt the solder so i can take the diodes, capacitor, and buttons off what temp do i set the oven at? Hence my original question what temperature does solder melt at?
The melting point of solder depends upon its particular formulation. In the case of eutectic tin-lead solder, the melting temperature is somewhere around 360 degrees Fahrenheit. The temperature becomes a bit higher with different formulations of solder, such as 60/40 tin lead, which may be 10 degrees higher. Higher temperatures can also be expected for lead-free versions of solder, and that may change the temperature at which you’d want to use for your soldering iron.
Soft solder is typically thought of when solder or soldering is mentioned, with a typical melting range of 90 to 450 °C (190 to 840 °F). It is commonly used in electronics, plumbing, and assembly of sheet metal parts. Manual soldering uses a soldering iron or soldering gun. The widespread use of this popular lead-free solder alloy family is based on the reduced melting point of the Sn-Ag-Cu ternary eutectic behavior (217 ˚C), which is below the Sn-3.5Ag (wt.%) eutectic of 221 °C and the Sn-0.7Cu eutectic of 227 °C (recently revised by P. Snugovsky to Sn-0.9Cu).
The melting point of most solder is in the region of 188°C (370°F) and the iron tip temperature is typically 330°C to 350°C (626°F to 662°F). Soldering Basics : Although tip temperature is not the key element in soldering you should always start at the lowest temperature possible. There is no proper soldering iron temperature just for a given type of solder-the iron temperature should be set for both the component and the solder. When soldering surface mount components, a small tip and 600F (315C) should be sufficient to quickly solder the joint well without overheating the component.
Flux must melt at a temperature lower than solder so that it can do its job prior to the soldering action. It will volatilize very rapidly; thus it is mandatory that flux be melted to flow onto the work surface and not be simply volatilized by the hot iron tip to provide the full benefit of the fluxing action. 
The melting point of solder is around 300 degrees C. The low melting point is the reason it is useful for soldering. The melting point of solder will depend on what the solder … of  composed of. The most common solder has a melting point of 361.4  degrees F. 2 people found this useful.
The melting point of solder is around 300 degrees C. The low melting point is the reason it is useful for soldering. The melting point of solder will depend on what the solder … of  composed of. The most common solder has a melting point of 361.4  degrees F. 