Best Answer: Princess does this cruise often. A typical schedule (from the Diamond Princess) is below. As you can see, Princess has four full sea days scheduled between the mainland and Hawaii ... Report Abuse. It would take approximately 7 days, depending on what ship you take, and which port you embark from. One of the larger cruise ships will take the shortest time. Many may depart from San Diego or Ensenada, others from Los Angeles, and some from San Francisco. Some land first in Maui and cruise the other islands before going to Honolulu. Here is a website for the major cruise ship lines, and the ships that are scheduled to depart for Hawaii in 2008
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. The amount of time it would take to go from California to Hawaii by boat will vary. It will depend on the type of boat, how fast the boat goes and sea conditions. it would take between 7 and 10 days if the boat kept going for 24 hours each day. All flights between the mainland and Hawaii are affected by  traffic, weather, and winds. They can run as short as 4 hours and  15 minutes to as long as 6 hours and 30 minutes.  Distance:   The distance between Los Angeles and Honolulu is 2551 miles  (4105 km). .
A typical flight from San Francisco to  Honolulu, for instance, is 5 hours and 20 minutes, and Los Angeles  flights generally run a little longer, in the 5 hour and 35 minute  range. All flights between the mainland and Hawaii are affected by  traffic, weather, and winds. They can run as short as 4 hours and  15 minutes to as long as 6 hours and 30 minutes.  Distance:   The distance between Los Angeles and Honolulu is 2551 miles  (4105 km). .
One favored port to ship vehicles to and from Hawaii is Long Beach, California. The distance from Hawaii to Long Beach is 2,550 miles, give or take a couple of hundred miles. Now you are probably wondering about the variation in distance. It is one thing to ship your car via ground transport; it is quite a different matter to transport your car via container ship across an ocean. If you want the quick and dirty answer to the question, How long does it take to ship a car from Hawaii, we will be the first to tell you that there is no simple answer.
Answer   It took us 17 days going at a lesiurely rate on a 42' sailboat, sailing 90% of the time.   Answer   ..about a month..(avoiding the obvious'depends on how … fast its going:))..that is about the average.   Answer   I believe the record for the LA-Honolulu Transpac race is just under 7 days. All flights between the mainland and Hawaii are affected by  traffic, weather, and winds. They can run as short as 4 hours and  15 minutes to as long as 6 hours and 30 minutes.  Distance:   The distance between Los Angeles and Honolulu is 2551 miles  (4105 km). .
Flying time from California to Hawaii. The total flight duration from California to Hawaii is 5 hours, 30 minutes. This assumes an average flight speed for a commercial airliner of 500 mph, which is equivalent to 805 km/h or 434 knots. It also adds an extra 30 minutes for take-off and landing. Your exact time may vary depending on wind speeds. The calculation of flight time is based on the straight line flight distance from California to Hawaii (as the crow flies), which is about 2,498 miles or 4 021 kilometers. Your trip begins in the state of California.
I took a NCL cruise from Hawaii to Ensenada Mexico and we were 5 days at sea. They have some cruises that go from LA, San Diego, Vancouver, Canada and Ensenada, Mexico. It'll be from 4-5 days to reach the islands. Report Abuse. It would take approximately 7 days, depending on what ship you take, and which port you embark from. One of the larger cruise ships will take the shortest time. Many may depart from San Diego or Ensenada, others from Los Angeles, and some from San Francisco. Some land first in Maui and cruise the other islands before going to Honolulu. Here is a website for the major cruise ship lines, and the ships that are scheduled to depart for Hawaii in 2008
This Site Might Help You. RE: How long does it take to cruise from California to Hawaii? I live in the east, so I am thinking I would have to fly to California and then cruise to Hawaii. Report Abuse. It would take approximately 7 days, depending on what ship you take, and which port you embark from. One of the larger cruise ships will take the shortest time. Many may depart from San Diego or Ensenada, others from Los Angeles, and some from San Francisco. Some land first in Maui and cruise the other islands before going to Honolulu. Here is a website for the major cruise ship lines, and the ships that are scheduled to depart for Hawaii in 2008