The Via Appia Antica (www.parcoappiaantica.org), ancient Rome's Queen of Roads, is the reason we say all roads lead to Rome. Engineered in the 5th century B.C., it was the widest and largest road of its time. 
A new Appian Way was built in parallel with the old one in 1784 as far as the Alban Hills region. The new road is the Via Appia Nuova (New Appian Way) as opposed to the old section, now known as Via Appia Antica. The emperor Trajan built the Via Traiana, an extension of the Via Appia from Beneventum, reaching Brundisium via Canusium and Barium rather than via Tarentum. This was commemorated by an arch at Beneventum.
Confidence votes 23.8K. The Appian way (Via Appia) was the most strategically important road in ancient Rome. It stretched from Rome all the way down to Brindisi, a distance of 266 miles (477km). Via Appia is the Latin name for the road we know as the Appian Way, an ancient Roman road running from Rome to Brindisi. It was named after Appius Claudius Caecus, a Roman cen … sor who began the building of the road in 312 B.C. 4 people found this useful
Via Appia Antica (Old Appian Way) was once one of the world's most important roads and the most famous of all the roads that radiated from Rome towards the far ends of the Roman Empire. Sometime around 295 BC, the road was extended to Benevenutum and then, within the next five years, to Venusia and Tarentum. Eventually, the Appian Way made it all the way to the port city of Brindisi on Italy's southeast coast, 560 km from Rome (about 350 miles).
Roman roads and especially the Appian Way were extremely important to Rome. It allowed trade and access to the east, specifically Greece. The Appian Way is visible today and many significant tombs and architecture line its borders. It was this Via Appia Antica road that many events took place. The Appian Way is also lined with tombs of ancient patrician families of Rome. Among the tombs one will find the Christian catacombs, San Sebastian, San Domitilla, San Callixtus, and the most impressive, the tomb of Cecilia Metella.
the Appian way is the queen of the long roads. The road is named after Appius Claudius Caecus, the Roman censor who began and completed the first section as a military road to the south in 312 BC during the Samnite Wars. The emperor Trajan built the Via Traiana, an extension of the Via Appia from Beneventum, reaching Brundisium via Canusium and Barium rather than via Tarentum. This was commemorated by an arch at Beneventum.
Appian Way. Appian Way (ăpˈēən) [ key ], Lat. Via Appia, most famous of the Roman roads, built (312 B.C.) under Appius Claudius Caecus. It connected Rome with Capua and was later extended to Beneventum (now Benevento), Tarentum (Taranto), and Brundisium (Brindisi). It was the chief highway to Greece and the East. 1 Appian Way-Appian Way The oldest and best of all the Roman roads, leading from the Porta Capena of Rome to 2  ... Via Appia-Via Appia: Via Appia: see Appian Way; Roman roads.
The Appian Way, or La Via Appia Antica, is the first long-distance road constructed by the Roman Empire intended for military use. It originally stretched around 350 miles from Rome to the south of Italy where the Adriatic port town of Brindisi provides sea access to Greece. And this this thing is old. 
The Appian Way & the Catacombs. Of all the roads that led to Rome, Via Appia Antica (begun in 312 b.c. ) was the most famous. It eventually stretched all the way from Rome to the seaport of Brindisi, through which trade with Greece and the East was funneled. 