Listserv, like Majordomo, is a small program that automatically redistributes e-mail to names on a mailing list. Users can subscribe to a mailing list by sending an e-mail note to a mailing list they learn about; listserv will automatically add the name and distribute future e-mail postings to every subscriber. 
LISTSERV is the original and industry standard email list management software. Continuously developed to meet the latest demands, LISTSERV provides everything you need to manage all of your opt-in email lists, including email newsletters, announcements, discussion groups and email communities. 
A Listserv, or Listserve, is method of communicating with a group of people via email. You send one email message to the “reflector” email address, and the software sends the email to all of the group’s subscribers. ﻿. The group of people have all joined because they share a common interest. The common thread is the listserv software that manages the subscriptions, handles bounces, and gets the email message out to small groups of 10 people up to very large groups of hundreds of thousands of people.
LISTSERV is currently a commercial product marketed by L-Soft International. Although LISTSERV refers to a specific mailing list server, the term is sometimes used incorrectly to refer to any mailing list server. Another popular mailing list server is Majordomo, which is freeware. PREVIOUSlisting.
This LISTSERV server is located at LISTSERV.WA.GOV. Below you will find all lists that have been configured for public archiving. To access a specific list, simply click on the name of the list in the table. To find confidential or unlisted lists, type in the list name in the search box to the right. 
When e-mail is addressed to a LISTSERV mailing list, it is automatically broadcast to everyone on the list. The result is similar to a newsgroup or forum, except that the messages are transmitted as e-mail and are therefore available only to individuals on the list. Although LISTSERV refers to a specific mailing list server, the term is sometimes used incorrectly to refer to any mailing list server. Another popular mailing list server is Majordomo, which is freeware. PREVIOUSlisting.
A LISTSERV mailing list is based on a computer program called LISTSERV that allows people to create, manage, and control electronic mailing lists. Each list has a topic of interest, just as a company might have a postal mailing list to distribute a catalog. Group members need only to maintain their own addresses and subscription status. You may often hear people refer to any mailing list as a listserv. This is not accurate; only a list maintained with the LISTSERV program is a LISTSERV mailing list. LISTSERV is a registered trademark of L-Soft international, Inc
LISTSERV is only one type of electronic mailing list software. Other types of shared public mailing lists include Sympa (the software behind IU List) lists, Majordomo lists, Procmail lists, and LISTPROC. LISTSERV is effective at combating spam, a frequent problem with shared mailing lists. Since LISTSERV servers communicate with each other, when one server detects a spam file, it notifies all the other servers, so that each server can cut off the unwanted messages.
Listserv. This term looks like it's missing an e, but that's how it's spelled. A listserv, or list server, is a small program that automatically sends messages to multiple e-mail addresses on a mailing list. When someone subscribes to a mailing list, the listserv will automatically add the address and distribute future e-mail messages to that address along with all the others on the list. When someone unsubscribes, the listserv simply removes the address. At least that is the way it supposed to work