Once the person departs the Schengen territory, he/she can't enter again without obtaining a new visa. Multiple-entry visa: Allows multiple stays in one or more Schengen countries, as long as the total length of the stay does not exceed 90 days in a given 180 day period from the date of first entry. A multiple entry visa is not issued at all the embassies/consulates. If the validity of the visa is over while visiting the Schengen territory, the person can no longer stay in the Schengen territory even if the person has not stayed for 90 days.
The duration is counted from the date of the first entry into the Schengen-Area. A Schengen-Visa with the validi ty of one year or more and a registered duration of stay of 90 days permits you, however, to stay in the Schengen-Area for a maximum period of 90 days per half-year (in Germany or other Schengen-Countries). For subsequent travel(s), the Embassy can issue Schengen-visa(s) that permit the holder to stay in the Schengen-Area for a certain number of days within a certain period of time (e.g. 30 days between March 1 and May 31).
Duration. A visa to the Schengen countries is valid for a maximum of 90 days in any 180-day period. Those 90 days may be spread across one or more visits, depending on the number of entries you have been granted. Read more about. .
Multiple-entry visa. is granted for several visits to the Schengen area. The total duration of the stay is the number of days stated on the visa, however being a maximum of 90 days within a 180-day period. is issued for one journey during which you can stay in the Schengen area for a maximum of 90 days within a 180-day period. A double-entry visa. allows entry to the Schengen area twice
The Schengen visa allows the holder to a total stay of up to 90 days within a period of 6 months for tourist or business purposes. If you get a multiple entry Schengen visa, you may leave and return any number of times within the 180-day period, but the combined stay within the region must not total more than 90 days. You need to apply for a Schengen visa if you are a citizen of a country whose citizens are subject to the visa requirement.
The visa can be valid for maximum 90 days in the course of a period of 180 days. The period is calculated from the date you first crossed the external Schengen border. The visa’s validity period, first possible day of entry and the day you must leave the Schengen area are written on the visa sticker. 
Depending on the visa issued they may be allowed to enter once (single entry) or multiple times (multiple entry) and stay for no longer than 3 months 90 days per year in between the period of 6 months. Such a decision is made by the authorities depending on the nature of ones travel purpose and other relevant factors. 
A Schengen visa allows the holder to travel freely within the Schengen countries for a maximum stay of up to 90 days in a 6 month period. The first step in the application process is to Apply the Schengen Application Guide. 
The Uniform Schengen Visa stands for a permit of one of the Schengen Area Member Countries to transit or reside in the desired territory for a certain period of time up to the maximum of 90 days every six month period starting from the date of entry. 
FAQ. Single/Multiple Entry Short Stay Schengen Visa. A short stay Schengen visa entitles the holder to visit the Schengen countries for tourism, visiting friends/family, business etc., up to 90 days within a 180 day period from the date of first entry. A multiple entry visa is not issued at all the embassies/consulates. If the validity of the visa is over while visiting the Schengen territory, the person can no longer stay in the Schengen territory even if the person has not stayed for 90 days.