1 Rest your wrist for at least 48 hours. 2  Ice your wrist to reduce pain and swelling. 3  Do it for 20-30 minutes every three to four hours for two to three days, or until the pain is gone. 4  Compress the wrist with a bandage. 5  Elevate your wrist above your heart, on a pillow or the back of a chair. as often as you can. To speed the healing, you can: 1  Rest your wrist for at least 48 hours. 2  Ice your wrist to reduce pain and swelling. 3  Do it for 20-30 minutes every three to four hours for two to three days, or until the pain is gone. 4  Compress the wrist with a bandage
Wrist sprain explained. A wrist sprain is quite a common injury, which usually occurs after a fall onto an outstretched hand. Other accidents or impacts can cause a sprained wrist, although it usually involves the wrist being bent either forwards or back. A sprained wrist doesn't usually occur as an overuse injury. Sudden pain in the wrist will be felt at the time of injury and in more severe wrist sprains a tearing or popping feeling may be felt. Pain will be felt when moving the wrist and a tender spot may be felt where the ligament is damaged.
The wrist is composed of eight floating bones called carpals. These bones are connected to one another by strong, flexible bands of connective tissue known as ligaments. A sprained wrist occurs when any of the ligaments in the wrist are injured. Wrist Sprains are quite common and can range in severity. Based on the degree of injury to the ligament, a wrist sprain will be categorized as either Grade 1 for mild sprains (overly stretched), Grade 2 for moderate sprains (partially torn), or Grade 3 severe sprains (fully torn ligament). 
The wrist is the most complex joint in the body, consisting of many bones and ligaments that can be easily injured by sports-related incidents. The most common wrist injuries among young athletes are wrist fractures and sprains, which are usually caused by unexpected falls onto an outstretched hand. 
A sprain is an injury to a ligament. Ligaments are strong bands of connective tissue that connect one bone to another. A wrist sprain is a common injury. There are many ligaments in the wrist that can be stretched or torn, resulting in a sprain. This occurs when the wrist is bent forcefully, such as in a fall onto an outstretched hand. 1 Grade 3. 2  These severe sprains occur when the ligament is completely torn. 3  These are significant injuries that require medical or surgical care. 4  As the ligament tears away from the bone, it may also take a small chip of bone with it, called an avulsion fracture.
A wrist sprain is a common injury for all sorts of athletes. All it takes is a momentary loss of balance. As you slip, you automatically stick your hand out to break your fall. But once your hand hits the ground, the force of impact bends it back toward your forearm. To speed the healing, you can: 1  Rest your wrist for at least 48 hours. 2  Ice your wrist to reduce pain and swelling. 3  Do it for 20-30 minutes every three to four hours for two to three days, or until the pain is gone. 4  Compress the wrist with a bandage
1 Ice your wrist to reduce pain and swelling. 2  Do it for 20-30 minutes every three to four hours for two to three days, or until the pain is gone. 3  Compress the wrist with a bandage. 4  Elevate your wrist above your heart, on a pillow or the back of a chair. as often as you can. To speed the healing, you can: 1  Rest your wrist for at least 48 hours. 2  Ice your wrist to reduce pain and swelling. 3  Do it for 20-30 minutes every three to four hours for two to three days, or until the pain is gone. 4  Compress the wrist with a bandage
Symptoms of a wrist sprain vary depending on the extent of the injury and the location of the sprain. Sudden pain in the wrist will be felt at the time of injury and in more severe wrist sprains a tearing or popping feeling may be felt. Pain will be felt when moving the wrist and a tender spot may be felt where the ligament is damaged.
DESCRIPTION. A sprain is an injury to a ligament. Ligaments are the connective tissues that connect bones to bones; they could be thought of as tape that holds the bones together at a joint (see Figure 1). The most common ligament to be injured in the wrist is the scapho-lunate ligament (see Figure 2). It is the ligament between two of the small bones in the wrist, the scaphoid bone and the lunate bone. There are many other ligaments in the wrist, but they are less frequently injured. Sprains can have a wide range of severity; minor sprains may have minimal stretch of the ligaments, and more severe sprains may represent complete tears of the ligament(s).