This type of volcano has steeper slopes of 6-10 degrees on its flanks and as much as a 30 degree slope near the top. Stratovolcanoes show interlayering of lava flows and typically up to 50 percent pyroclastic material, which is why they are sometimes called composite volcanoes. Often cinder cones are classed as a major type of volcano. But cinder cones are much smaller than most shield, composite, and ash flow volcanoes. In fact, cinder cones occur on all of these larger volcano types.
When magma reaches the surface of the earth, it is called lava. Since it its a liquid, it flows downhill in response to gravity as a lava flows. Different magma types behave differently as lava flows, depending on their temperature, viscosity, and gas content. 
T he essential feature of a composite volcano is a conduit system through which magma from a reservoir deep in the Earth's crust rises to the surface. The volcano is built up by the accumulation of material erupted through the conduit and increases in size as lava, cinders, ash, etc., are added to its slopes. C inder cones are the simplest type of volcano. They are built from particles and blobs of congealed lava ejected from a single vent. As the gas-charged lava is blown violently into the air, it breaks into small fragments that solidify and fall as cinders around the vent to form a circular or oval cone.
S ome of the Earth's grandest mountains are composite volcanoes--sometimes called stratovolcanoes. They are typically steep-sided, symmetrical cones of large dimension built of alternating layers of lava flows, volcanic ash, cinders, blocks, and bombs and may rise as much as 8,000 feet above their bases. C inder cones are the simplest type of volcano. They are built from particles and blobs of congealed lava ejected from a single vent. As the gas-charged lava is blown violently into the air, it breaks into small fragments that solidify and fall as cinders around the vent to form a circular or oval cone.
Shield volcanoes. Shield volcanoes, the third type of volcano, are built almost entirely of fluid lava flows. Flow after flow pours out in all directions from a central summit vent, or group of vents, building a broad, gently sloping cone of flat, domical shape, with a profile much like that of a warrior's shield. 
Many of Earth's most beautiful mountains are stratovolcanoes —also referred to as composite volcanoes. The stratovolcanoes are made up of layers of lava flows interlayed with sand-or gravel-like volcanic rock called cinders or volcanic ash. These volcano land formations are typically 10-20 miles across and up to 10,000 or more feet tall. Often cinder cones are classed as a major type of volcano. But cinder cones are much smaller than most shield, composite, and ash flow volcanoes. In fact, cinder cones occur on all of these larger volcano types.
The magma forming this lava is often felsic, having high-to-intermediate levels of silica (as in rhyolite, dacite, or andesite), with lesser amounts of less-viscous mafic magma. Extensive felsic lava flows are uncommon, but have travelled as far as 15 km (9.3 mi). Stratovolcanoes are sometimes called composite volcanoes because of their composite layered structure built up from sequential outpourings of eruptive materials. They are among the most common types of volcanoes, in contrast to the less common shield volcanoes. It has been essentially dormant since then. A stratovolcano, also known as a composite volcano, is a conical volcano built up by many layers (strata) of hardened lava, tephra, pumice, and volcanic ash.
M ost composite volcanoes have a crater at the summit which contains a central vent or a clustered group of vents. Lavas either flow through breaks in the crater wall or issue from fissures on the flanks of the cone. Lava, solidified within the fissures, forms dikes that act as ribs which greatly strengthen the cone. C inder cones are the simplest type of volcano. They are built from particles and blobs of congealed lava ejected from a single vent. As the gas-charged lava is blown violently into the air, it breaks into small fragments that solidify and fall as cinders around the vent to form a circular or oval cone.
- When magma reaches the surface it is called lava (pronounced 'larver'). If the level of lava in the crater overflows the rim, it will begin to flow down the sides of the volcano. Different types of lava are more runny than others. and the most runny types can flow down the volcano at over 30 miles per hour. A composite volcano is also commonly called a stratovolcano. These volcanoes usually form in subduction zones. Stratovolcanoes form on the continental side of a subduction zone where the melting oceanic crust forms pools of molten rock in a magma chamber.