Hindi meaning of green gram, green gram meaning in Hindi, green gram definition, examples and pronunciation of green gram in Hindi language. Information provided on green gram. Meaning and definitions of green gram, translation in Hindi language for green gram with similar and opposite words. Also find spoken pronunciation of green gram in Hindi and in English
It is cultivated on a variety of soils, from red laterite soils in South India to black cotton soils in North India and sandy soils in Rajasthan. To cultivate Green Gram a well drained loamy to sandy loam soil is the best, while saline and alkaline soil or waterlogged soils are not at all suitable for cultivation. Suitable climate for cultivation of Green Gram should be warm humid and within temperature range of 25째C to 35째C, with moderate rains of 80-100cm, well distributed during growing period of 100days. Mung should grow from sea level to as high as 2000 meters.
Green Gram. Hindi Name: Moong Dal. The green gram is a small, round olive green bean with a sweet flavor and soft texture. The mung or moong bean is the seed of Vigna radiata, belonging to the Indian subcontinent. These are commonly used in South-Asian cuisine. They are yellow in color once the skins are removed
Not to be confused with graham flour. Gram flour, also known as garbanzo bean flour, or besan, is a pulse flour made from ground chickpeas known in a number of Asian countries as gram. It is a staple ingredient in Indian, Pakistani, Nepali and Bangladeshi cuisines. Gram flour can be made from either raw or roasted gram beans. The roasted variety is more flavorful, while the raw variety has a slightly bitter taste. In the form of a paste with water or yogurt, it is also popular as a facial exfoliant in the Indian Subcontinent. When mixed with an equal proportion of water, it can be used as an egg replacer in vegan cooking.
The mung bean (Vigna radiata), alternatively known as the moong bean, green gram, but not mungo or mingo, is a plant species in the legume family. Whole cooked mung beans are generally prepared from dried beans by boiling until they are soft. Mung beans are light yellow in colour when their skins are removed. Mung bean paste can be made by dehulling, cooking, and pulverizing the beans to a dry paste.
Mung bean paste is also a common filling of pastries known as hopia (or bakpia) popular in Indonesia, the Philippines and further afield in Guyana (where it is known as black eye cake) and originating from southern China. Whole cooked mung beans are generally prepared from dried beans by boiling until they are soft. Mung beans are light yellow in colour when their skins are removed. Mung bean paste can be made by dehulling, cooking, and pulverizing the beans to a dry paste.
Mung beans (also known as green gram, Hindi: moong, Gujarati: mug), are little green seeds that are yellow inside. They have been eaten by Indians for thousands of years. Mung beans are used for both sweet and savory dishes in Indian cooking. 
Introduction. Green Gram, also known as Mung or Golden Gram or Pesalu (in Telugu), PasiPayaru (in Tamil) is the seed of VignaRadiate and is native to the Indian subcontinent. Suitable climate for cultivation of Green Gram should be warm humid and within temperature range of 25째C to 35째C, with moderate rains of 80-100cm, well distributed during growing period of 100days. Mung should grow from sea level to as high as 2000 meters.