An epic is traditionally a genre of poetry, known as epic poetry. However, in modern terms, epic is often extended to other art forms, such as epic theatre, films, music, novels, plays, television shows, and video games, where in the story has a theme of grandeur and heroism, just as in epic poetry.
The word epic actually means small or insignificant although it is not used in the right context nowadays and has inadequately become to mean huge, but this is wrong. Use the Collins Concise English Dictionary to find out more. share | improve this answer. You know what I mean. The word epic has been overused for quite some time now. I was recently referred to Wiktionary as a trusted source, and I see this example in use: (colloquial) Extending beyond the usual or ordinary; extraordinary, momentous, great. The after-prom party was epic.
1. of or pertaining to a long poetic composition, usu. centered upon a hero, in which a series of great achievements or events is narrated in elevated style: The Iliad is an epic poem. 2. resembling or suggesting such poetry: an epic novel. 3. heroic; majestic; impressively great. 4. of unusually great size or extent: a crime wave of epic proportions. 1. Of, constituting, having to do with, or suggestive of a literary epic: an epic poem. 2. Surpassing the usual or ordinary, particularly in scope or size: A vast musical panorama ... it requires an epic musical understanding to do it justice (Tim Page)
An epic is a long narrative poem that usually contains a hero and speaks of his amazing deeds and events occurring in his time. Some known examples are Beowulf and Paradise lo … st. The question and answer are locked and cannot be edited. In everyday conversation, epic is often used loosely to refer to  anything big or important or long. All such uses are metaphorical  extensions of its basic meaning, in wh … ich it denotes a literary  genre, an extended verse narrative.
The best answer is NOT correct !! The use of epic today, has changed-and its no misused... as something cool.... I will give you the true meaning to this word by give you an example: The Epic of Gilgamesh, an epic poem from Mesopotamia, is amongst the earliest surviving works of literature. The literary history of Gilgamesh begins with five independent Sumerian poems about 'Bilgamesh' (Sumerian for Gilgamesh), king of Uruk. 2. in style of epic poetry: having some of the characteristics of an epic an epic story of true love and adventure 3. very large or heroic: impressive by virtue of greatness of size, scope, or heroism a scandal of epic proportions http://encarta.msn.com/encnet/features/d...
Technically, the usage of epic is correct in its context in that it's used to describe an event as being particularly spectacular, which fits the definition of epic. However, it's sort of replacing older slang to indicate the same idea (Awesome!. Cool!. Neato!). You know what I mean. The word epic has been overused for quite some time now. I was recently referred to Wiktionary as a trusted source, and I see this example in use: (colloquial) Extending beyond the usual or ordinary; extraordinary, momentous, great. The after-prom party was epic.
Epic (adj). narrated in a grand style; pertaining to or designating a kind of narrative poem, usually called an heroic poem, in which real or fictitious events, usually the achievements of some hero, are narrated in an elevated style. Epic (noun). an epic or heroic poem. Beowulf is an epic poem. epic (Adjective). Momentously heroic; grand in scale or character. epic (Adjective). Extending beyond the usual or ordinary; extraordinary, momentous, great. The after-prom party was epic. Origin: From epicus, from ἐπικός, from ἔπος.
In everyday conversation, epic is often slang for superb or excellent. The term is also applied to productions on a large or grandiose scale (novels, movies). In everyday conversation, epic is often used loosely to refer to  anything big or important or long. All such uses are metaphorical  extensions of its basic meaning, in wh … ich it denotes a literary  genre, an extended verse narrative.
Confidence votes 386. In everyday conversation, epic is often slang for superb or excellent. The term is also applied to productions on a large or grandiose scale (novels, movies). The modern use is a metaphorical extension of its basic meaning, a literary genre consisting of an extended verse narrative. In everyday conversation, epic is often used loosely to refer to  anything big or important or long. All such uses are metaphorical  extensions of its basic meaning, in wh … ich it denotes a literary  genre,