Symptoms may appear within 2 to 10 days after exposure to an infected person-even longer for women (up to 3 weeks). 1  It is important to note that infected women have no symptoms in 30% to 40% of cases. 2  Thus it is possible to be infected with gonorrhea and not know about the infection.
Gonorrhea is a curable infection caused by the bacteria Neisseria gonorrhoeae. In 2011 570,000 cases were reported to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), but the actual number of gonorrhea cases in the U.S. each year is thought to be closer to 820,000.
Gonorrhea Symptoms in Women. 1  It is important to note that infected women have no symptoms in 30% to 40% of cases. 2  Thus it is possible to be infected with gonorrhea and not know about the infection. 3  Gonorrhea may cause pelvic inflammatory disease (a serious medical condition that can lead to infertility).
Gonorrhea-Symptoms. It is fairly common for gonorrhea to cause no symptoms, especially in women. The incubation period, the time from exposure to the bacteria until symptoms develop, is usually 2 to 5 days. But sometimes symptoms may not develop for up to 30 days.
The incubation period, the time from exposure to the bacteria until symptoms develop, is usually 2 to 5 days. But sometimes symptoms may not develop for up to 30 days. Gonorrhea may not cause symptoms until the infection has spread to other areas of the body.
Symptoms of rectal infection in both men and women may include discharge, anal itching, soreness, bleeding, or painful bowel movements. Rectal infection also may be asymptomatic. Pharyngeal infection may cause a sore throat, but usually is
Gonorrhea is characterized by thick discharge from the penis or vagina. In addition to male reproductive organs & female genital tract, gonorrhea may infect the rectum, throat, eyes, blood, skin, & joints.
The incubation period, the time from exposure to the bacteria until symptoms develop, is usually 2 to 5 days. But sometimes symptoms may not develop for up to 30 days. Gonorrhea may not cause symptoms until the infection has spread to other areas of the body.
1 Throat infections from gonorrhea are transmitted through oral sex, but occur without any other symptoms in less than 5% of individuals infected with gonorrhea. 2  Rectal pain or discharge can be a sign of infection of the prostate and is transmitted through anal intercourse.