Analytics shows a heap of questions such as How much is a forward helix piercing, How long will my forward helix piercing take to heal? and, of course, Do forward helix piercings hurt? With this in mind, I thought it was high time I created a forward helix piercing Q&A. More information. To find out more about my piercing, check out my post-Forward Helix Piercing: One Month On. For more general piercing information, I also have a similar post on my rook piercing and a chronology of all my piercings.
The helix piercing can take up to twelve months to heal, although most piercers state that you can change the stud, bar or equivalent after around two or three months. The average healing time for helix piercings is six to eight months. (December 2013). The helix piercing is a perforation of the helix or upper ear (cartilage) for the purpose of inserting and wearing a piece of jewelry. The piercing itself is usually made with a small gauge hollow piercing needle, and typical jewelry would be a small diameter captive bead ring, or a stud.
For Helix Piercing healing time usually takes 6-12 months. But recovery can also be faster and in many sufferers, it takes only 2 months for complete healing. In Helix Piercing time of recovery also depends a lot on the amount of care after perforation. With regular cleaning and avoidance of injuries, the recovery can be much faster. Helix Piercing pain usually goes away in 6-8 weeks. Helix Piercing swelling takes about 2-3 weeks to subside.
I really want a forward helix piercing so I wanted to know how bad it hurts and how long it takes to heal, I got my snug done and it took around a year to fully heal. Follow. 2 answers 2. Report Abuse. I really want a forward helix piercing so I wanted to know how bad it hurts and how long it takes to heal, I got my snug done and it took around a year to fully heal. Add your answer. Source.
I recently got mine done and the information sheet says 8-10 weeks, however, these are probably the longest it should take yours to heal.. That fact sheet was totally wrong … ... for males the healing time is 3-6 months, females 6 months to a year. Most cartilage piercings take 6 months-1 year to completely heal. You'll be able to change the jewelry after about 2 months. It also depends on where it is exactly and if you' … re wearing a rings or stud. Studs are usually better because they dont get hit as often and they're better for swelling.
Well the piercing needs to heal, this can take up to a year for a piercing to become seasoned (this is when you can remove the jewellery for a few hours and not have an issue … putting it back in). Average heal time can vary from piercing to piercing from 4~6 weeks for some and other a lot longer. Most cartilage piercings take 6 months-1 year to completely heal. You'll be able to change the jewelry after about 2 months. It also depends on where it is exactly and if you' … re wearing a rings or stud. Studs are usually better because they dont get hit as often and they're better for swelling.
9) GIVE IT TIME. Cartilage ear piercings may take up to a year to fully heal, but generally take 3-6 months (as opposed to the ear lobe, that takes just 4-6 weeks). They heal from the outside in, so even if it looks fine on the outside, you should not assume it is fully healed