Paid Fostering. Large shelters and animal organizations often pay a portion of the expense related to fostering animals. For example, The American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (ASPCA) provides food, supplies, veterinary care and medications an animal needs while it's fostered. The host family provides a safe living space in the home, love, guidance and attention.
Animal Care Job Description. On average, animal care workers make around $9 per hour. Most animal care positions are part-time jobs, and job opportunities are growing at double the average rate for animal care workers. According to the BLS (Bureau of Labor Statistics), job opportunities for animal care workers are projected to grow by 21 percent between 2008 and 2018. This is nearly double the average job's growth rate.
National Statistics. On average, animal trainers earned approximately $30,510 per year as of May 2011, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Wages can differ considerably by employment sector. Half of those working in the field reported earning between $19,580 and $36,810 per year. Only the top 10 percent of animal trainers working reported annual earnings in excess of $50,000, and the very lowest-paid 10 percent of animal trainers earned just $17,370 per year. Those few who worked with animals in the motion picture industry earned nearly three times as much as animal trainers employed in any other industry, an average of $93,63
Trainers employed by the gambling industries reported average annual wages of $36,860. Those few who worked with animals in the motion picture industry earned nearly three times as much as animal trainers employed in any other industry, an average of $93,630 per year.
The future of animal care jobs. According to the BLS (Bureau of Labor Statistics), job opportunities for animal care workers are projected to grow by 21 percent between 2008 and 2018. This is nearly double the average job's growth rate.
£12,000 + per year. As an animal technician you would be responsible for the day-to-day needs of lab animals. You would sometimes also help scientists with experiments involving the animals in your care. If you have an interest in scientific research and would enjoy working in a laboratory, this could be the job for you.
Best Answer: I'm not sure what you mean by 'animal care assistant'. I used to be a zookeeper, and that's a minimum-wage or at least low-paid job (at least it is in the UK, where I live-you don't say where in the world you are, but things might be different in another country). I am looking forward being an animal care assistant at the zoo. And I want to know how much do they get paid each hour. Add your answer. Source. Submit Cancel. I think this question violates the Community Guidelines.
The average hourly pay for all animal care workers is around $10 per hour, but will vary by experience and location. Animal care workers with a significant amount of experience and the appropriate certification can expect to earn up to $15 per hour. According to the BLS (Bureau of Labor Statistics), job opportunities for animal care workers are projected to grow by 21 percent between 2008 and 2018. This is nearly double the average job's growth rate.
The median annual wage for nonfarm animal caretakers was $19,690 in May 2012. The median wage is the wage at which half the workers in an occupation earned more than that amount and half earned less. The lowest 10 percent earned less than $16,490, and the top 10 percent earned more than $32,500. The median annual wage for animal trainers was $25,270 in May 2012. Overall employment of animal care and service workers is projected to grow 15 percent from 2012 to 2022, faster than the average for all occupations. Employment growth coupled with high job turnover should result in very good job opportunities for candidates for most positions.