1 Don't preheat the oven. 2  Prick your sweet potatoes each 2-3 time with a fork, then place them directly on the oven rack in the middle of the oven, above the foil. 3  Turn the oven on to 425. 4  Bake for 45 minutes for sweet potatoes/yams that are 2-3 inches in diameter. 1 For sweet potatoes that are up to 4 inches in diameter, bake for an hour. 2  For super large sweet potatoes, bake for an hour and 15 minutes. 3  After the time has elapsed, don't open the oven but turn it off. 4  Let the sweet potatoes sit in the oven for at least 30 minutes but up to an hour.
1 Bake for 45 minutes for sweet potatoes/yams that are 2-3 inches in diameter. 2  For sweet potatoes that are up to 4 inches in diameter, bake for an hour. 3  For super large sweet potatoes, bake for an hour and 15 minutes. 4  After the time has elapsed, don't open the oven but turn it off. 1 For sweet potatoes that are up to 4 inches in diameter, bake for an hour. 2  For super large sweet potatoes, bake for an hour and 15 minutes. 3  After the time has elapsed, don't open the oven but turn it off. 4  Let the sweet potatoes sit in the oven for at least 30 minutes but up to an hour.
Rub olive oil over each and every potato and places them in an oven dish or tray. Sprinkle some salt on them and place a branch of Rosemary in the tray. Place tray in hot oven and let bake until brown and toasty on one side, shake the pan to roll the potatoes over and let cook on the other side.
1 Bake the potatoes: You can bake the potatoes directly on the oven rack, or you can place them a few inches apart on a foil-lined baking sheet. 2  Bake the potatoes for 50 to 60 minutes. 3  Flip them over every 20 minutes or so and check them for doneness by piercing them with a fork. 
Place the potato directly on the oven rack. Bake for 40 to 60 minutes, depending upon the size of the potato. Potatoes are as hard as a brick when they are raw. By the time it’s cooked you’ll be able to squeeze it. 
Oven-Baked Potatoes. See what to do: How To Bake a Potato in the Oven. Preheat the oven to 425°F. Rub the potatoes with olive oil, sprinkle them with salt and pepper, and prick them with the tines of a fork. You can lay them directly on the oven rack or place them on a baking sheet. 3. Slow-Cooker Potatoes. See what to do: How To Bake a Potato in the Slow Cooker. Rub the potatoes with olive oil, sprinkle them with salt and pepper, and prick them with the tines of a fork. Wrap each potato in foil and lay it in the bottom of your slow cooker.
This helps it cook evenly in your oven. Place the potato on your baking sheet. Drizzle about 1/2 teaspoon of olive oil onto your potato. Sprinkle a dash of salt. Bake your potato for approximately 30 minutes. If your potato is 2 inches wide or smaller, check on it after 15 minutes. Poke the potato with your fork to test if it's done. 
Preparation. Preheat oven to 400°. Pierce potatoes several times with fork, place on baking sheet, and bake 30 to 40 minutes or until tender and crisp. Cut a slit in the top of each potato, and squeeze to push flesh of potato upward. Drizzle each with 1 teaspoon olive oil, and add sea salt and pepper. Add toppings, as desired.
1 Heat oven to 400° F. Pierce each sweet potato several times with the tines of a fork. 2  Place the sweet potatoes on a rimmed baking sheet lined with foil. 3  Bake until tender, about 45 minutes. 4  Make a slit in the top of each sweet potato. Directions. 1 