SolarWinds Head Geek, Josh Stephens, gives you the low-down on IP SLA fundamentals. See how to analyze network performance between sites and diagnose WAN issues using this powerful technology that is already built into your Cisco gear.
The Cisco IOS Software implementation of the IP Service Level Agreement (IP SLA) feature contains a vulnerability in the validation of IP SLA packets that could allow an unauthenticated, remote attacker to cause a denial of service (DoS) condition.
IP SLA is a function of Cisco’s IOS enabling you to analyze a Service Level Agreement (SLA) for an IP application or service. IP SLAs use active traffic-monitoring to continuously monitor traffic across the network. This is very different from SNMP or Netflow data which give you more volume oriented statistics.
In this blog, we will outline what is involved when creating an IP SLA ICMP Echo monitor on Cisco routers. We will also discuss how to create IP SLA reports through SNMP using an typical SNMP trending tool.
This module describes how to use the Cisco IOS IP Service Level Agreements (SLAs) Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMP) Echo operation to monitor end-to-end response time between a Cisco router and devices using IP. ICMP Echo is useful for troubleshooting network connectivity issues.
Part of the Routing and switching glossary: IP SLA (Internet protocol service level agreement) is a feature of the Cisco Internetwork Operating System (Cisco IOS) that allows an IT professional to collect information about network performance in real time.
Cisco IP SLAs is a part of Cisco IOS software that allows Cisco customers to analyze IP service levels for IP applications and services by using active traffic monitoring—the generation of traffic in a continuous, reliable, and predictable manner—for measuring network performance.
To monitor IP connections on a device, use the IP SLAs ICMP Echo operation. An ICMP Echo operation measures end-to-end response times between a Cisco router and devices using IP. ICMP Echo is useful for troubleshooting network connectivity issues.
The Cisco IOS IP Service Level Agreement (IP SLA) feature can be used to gather realistic information about how specific types of traffic are being handled end-to-end across a network. To do this, an IP SLA device runs a preconfigured test and generates traffic that is destined for a far end device.
IP SLAs is a feature included in the Cisco IOS Software that can allow administrators the ability to Analyze IP Service Levels for IP applications and services. IP SLA's uses active traffic-monitoring technology to monitor continuous traffic on the network.