Cumulative Effect of Drugs. 1. Due to too frequent doses. 2. Due to too long continued administration. By cumulative effect is meant the unexpected, intense action of a drug after it has been given for some time, as differing from an immediate intense action of a drug which would show an idiosyncrasy. 1. 2. Cumulative Action From Too Long Continued Administration of a Drug means the development of symptom a which show an over-action of the drug. This is of frequent occurrence and is sometimes accidental, but is often caused deliberately by pushing a drug to its full physiologic effect.
Cumulative effects are changes to the environment that are caused by an action in combination with other past, present and future human actions. [Numerous definitions of. exist in the literature. Many of these are quite complicated and refer to technical aspects of cumulative effect's interactions. 2.2.1 Effects Pathways. Cumulative effects occur as interactions between actions, between actions and the environment, and between components of the environment. These pathways between a cause (or source) and an effect are often the focus of an assessment of cumulative effects.
effect. a result produced by an action. additive effect the combined effect produced by the action of two or more agents, being equal to the sum of their separate effects. adverse effect a symptom produced by a drug or therapy that is injurious to the patient. Bainbridge effect Bainbridge reflex. It may also be a spurious effect when the observed changes are due to causes and correlations common to both. additive effect.
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: cumulative effect (Noun). The state in which a series of repeated actions have an effect greater than the sum of their individual effects; noted especially in the repeated administration of drugs. Images & Illustrations of cumulative effect. Translation. Find a translation for the cumulative effect definition in other languages: Alternative searches for cumulative effect 1  : Search for Definitions for cumulative effect. 2  Search for Synonyms for cumulative effect. 3  Quotes containing the term cumulative effect. 4  Search for Phras
1 Cumulative impact is the impact on the environment, which results from the incremental impact of the action when added to other past, present, and reasonably foreseeable future actions regardless of what agency (Federal or non-Federal) or person undertakes such other actions. 
Cumulative effects are changes to the biophysical, social, economic, and cultural environments caused by the combination of past, present and reasonably foreseeable future actions. Impacts (changes) can be caused by natural events such as forest fires, or by human activities such as a mining. These cumulative effects are a growing concern for the many organizations who share the responsibility of caring for the NWT's land and water. Understanding and minimizing cumulative effects is essential to making informed decisions about land and water management and resource development in the NWT.
cumulative effect the action of a drug or treatment resulting from repeated use. Doppler effect see doppler effect. experimenter e's demand characteristics. extrapyramidal e's the side effects caused by neuroleptic medications, including dystonias, parkinsonism, akathisia, and tardive dyskinesia. It may also be a spurious effect when the observed changes are due to causes and correlations common to both. additive effect. the combined effect produced by the action of two or more agents, being equal to the sum of their separate effects.
The cumulative effect is the restoration of 4 acres minus the removal of 2 acres, for a net increase of 2 acres of habitat, increasing the current level of 1,000 acres to 1,002 acres. 7. Describe the relationship of the cumulative effects to any thresholds. 1 You must name/describe the Cumulative Effects Study Area for each resource for which you are analyzing cumulative effects. 2  You must describe the applicable Past, Present, and Reasonably Foreseeable Future Actions to the degree appropriate for the level of cumulative impact.