The Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania-based PPG is a global supplier of paints, coatings, chemicals, optical products, specialty materials, glass and fiber glass. The 2011 corporate financial summary indicates that sales were portioned with 73 % from coatings and 27% other businesses.
PPG Architectural Finishes, Inc. (PPG) is headquartered in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. A subsidiary of PPG Industries, Inc., it does business under its own name, as well as under the names PPG, Pittsburgh Paints, Porter Paints, Pure Performance Paints and Olympic stain.
The following chart explains what each term means, and where paint with that type of gloss should be used. Your local Dulux paint retailer also can recommend the type of gloss you need for your particular paint project.
Facts About PPG. PPG is a global manufacturer of paints, coatings, optical products, specialty materials, glass and fiber glass, and a Fortune 200 company with headquarters in Pittsburgh and operations in nearly 70 countries around the world. Learn More.
CIL is a registered trademark of the PPG Group of Companies. PPG Pittsburgh Paints is a registered trademark of PPG Architectural Finishes, Inc. Dulux is a registered trademark of AkzoNobel and is licensed to PPG Architectural Coatings Canada, Inc. for use in Canada only.
Because color sells and surface design is sacred. PPG's unique position as a color leader in multiple markets enables us to observe and translate emerging global color trends for our customers' applications – from consumer goods to automotive color, from residential to commercial to industrial design.
The QUALITY of trade paint is also better as the paints have more pigments (the coloured dyes) in them, meaning that the DIY paint will take 3 coats whereas the Trade version will only take two and have a better opacity, meaning more profit and a better job.
PPG Buys Glidden. Over the course of a couple months, the North American paint supplier business has been fundamentally re-shaped. On Friday December 14, PPG announced a definitive agreement to acquire the North American Decorative business unit from Azko Nobel for 1.05 billion.