1 What Glyceryl Trinitrate tablets are and what they are used for. Glyceryl Trinitrate belongs to a group of medicines called nitrate vasodilators. These medicines work by relaxing the blood vessels of the heart. This reduces the strain on the heart by making it easier to pump blood.
1 Glyceryl trinitrate can also be given as a tablet or as a spray to be taken sublingually (under the tongue) for the immediate relief of angina symptoms or as an injection. 2  The tablet is placed under the tongue or the spray sprayed under the tongue as shown in the patient information leaflet.
Glyceryl trinitrate should be used with caution in: 1  People with kidney disease. 2  People with liver disease. 3  People with low blood volume (hypovolaemia). 4  People with low blood pressure (hypotension). 5  People with a low level of oxygen in the blood. 6  People with anaemia.
Glyceryl trinitrate is a vasodilator and is used for angina of effort. Vasodilation is achieved by the releasing of free redical nitric oxide which activates guanylate cyclase and increases synthesis of guanosine 3′ and 5′-monophosphate with resultant effects on the phosphorylation of proteins in smooth muscle.
Glyceryl trinitrate belongs to a group of medication called nitrates. Nitrates work by relaxing and widening the blood vessels that increase the blood supply to the heart. Glyceryl trinitrate is available in tablet form, which you dissolve under your tongue, or as a spray.
When used for angina, glyceryl trinitrate is best taken before the onset of an attack, or when the first signs are experienced. People with angina often know what may bring on an attack, such as exercise or cold, and can take their nitrate prophylactically.
Glyceryl trinitrate is a nitrate that is used to treat angina. It is also referred to as nitroglycerin or GTN. There are numerous preparations available, in oral, transdermal and injectable forms. It is known by different trade names in different countries, according to the manufacturer. Glyceryl trinitrate is available by prescription only in ...