Personal training session prices will vary based on how many sessions you will be purchasing. All sessions packages have payment plans available and are affordable for anyone. At gold’s Gym we have made hiring a personal trainer practical for anyone and everyone. Today most personal trainer’s posses a 4 year sports science degree in Kinesiology. Every personal trainer at Gold’s Gym holds a professional fitness certification. There are many different types of certifications provided by various governing bodies.
Membership Fees. Membership fees at Gold’s Gym vary and depend on the location and the type of membership you apply for. On the average it is $30 to $36 a month, although some locations may charge $40 to $50, but that includes a personal trainer and additional amenities. If you’re not sure you should contact the nearest Gold’s Gym location and inquire about the fee.
1 Online Personal Training Services cost a fraction of what in-person trainers cost. 2  Gym America offers interactive workout and diet regimens for $7 per month or $50 for six months. 3  Fitness centers typically offer discounts if clients buy multiple training sessions or sign up for a new membership. 1 However, trainers can charge as low as $25 per hour, while some high-powered trainers earn as much as $15,000 for a six-week session, depending on geographical location and their experience. 2  Where you live greatly affects what trainers charge.
1 In most cases, the cost of a Gold’s Gym membership will depend on the length you sign up for, the current promotion and geographical location. 2  To budget properly, plan on spending anywhere from $10 to $60 in the initial enrollment fees for a Gold’s Gym membership. 
1 Since Gold’s Gym charges by the half hour, plan on spending around $40 to $60 per session with a personal trainer. 2  However, the more sessions you purchase in advance, the more you will be able to save per session. 3  Since these gyms are franchised owned, you will find that it will vary from gym to gym. 1 To take advantage of a Gold’s Gym personal trainer, a gym membership will be required. 2  This will be a monthly fee that will vary from one gym to another, but will usually be from $35 to $50 per month.
1 The cost of a personal trainer is going to depend on the number of sessions you want, the trainer, and the amount of time per session. 2  Since Gold’s Gym charges by the half hour, plan on spending around $40 to $60 per session with a personal trainer. 1 To take advantage of a Gold’s Gym personal trainer, a gym membership will be required. 2  This will be a monthly fee that will vary from one gym to another, but will usually be from $35 to $50 per month.
Type of Session: Group Personal Training. Since joining The Fitness Together in November, I have been very diligent with my nutrition, cardio and weight training.I work out with a trainer at Fitness Together 2x's per week and does cardio 5-6x's per week for 30-45 minutes. 1 However, trainers can charge as low as $25 per hour, while some high-powered trainers earn as much as $15,000 for a six-week session, depending on geographical location and their experience. 2  Where you live greatly affects what trainers charge.
You pay per session and you have no contracts or packages. GRRARRGH SparkPoints: (33,382) Fitness Minutes: (16,616) Posts: 473 11/21/12 2:40 P. My gym charges $37.50 for half an hour, regardless of the trainer, unless it's the owner. $55 for a full hour. My wife and I have joined Gold's Gym and like it. She would like to sign up for their 4x per month 30 minute personal trainer program. The price seems to vary depending on the deal they cut and how interested the gym is in negotiating that day