Glaciers are massive bodies of ice that slowly move across the landscape. They form by layers of snow compacted over the years to form a very thick layer of ice. Two primary types of glaciers exist: continental and alpine. Continental glaciers are large, dome-shaped sheets of ice and are vastly spread throughout the land. Alpine glaciers are found in mountain regions and in their valleys
As a glacier retreats, it leaves behind large piles of rock, gravel, and even boulders. These sediment deposits are called moraines. Moraines may form at the foot (terminal moraine) or sides (lateral moraine) of the glacier or in the middle of two merging glaciers (medial moraine). A glacial moraine in Kyrgyzstan. Photo courtesy of Martin Talbot via Flickr.
Glaciers are made up of fallen snow that, over many years, compresses into large, thickened ice masses. Glaciers form when snow remains in one location long enough to transform into ice. What makes glaciers unique is their ability to move. Due to sheer mass, glaciers flow like very slow rivers. Some glaciers are as small as football fields, while others grow to be dozens or even hundreds of kilometers long
1 When two alpine glaciers merge together at the base of a mountain it is called a piedmont glacier. 2  If the piedmont flows into the sea, it is called a tidewater glacier. 3  Valley glaciers are formed in mountain valleys. 4  Cirque glaciers are confined to the valley. They form by layers of snow compacted over the years to form a very thick layer of ice. Two primary types of glaciers exist: continental and alpine. Continental glaciers are large, dome-shaped sheets of ice and are vastly spread throughout the land.
Lateral moraines are formed on the sides of the glacier. Medial moraines are formed when two different glaciers merge and the lateral moraines of each coalesce to form a moraine in the middle of the combined glacier. Glacial moraines are formed by the deposition of material from a glacier and are exposed after the glacier has retreated. They usually appear as linear mounds of till, a non-sorted mixture of rock, gravel and boulders within a matrix of a fine powdery material.
Glaciers begin to form when snow remains in the same area year-round, where enough snow accumulates to transform into ice. Each year, new layers of snow bury and compress the previous layers. This compression forces the snow to re-crystallize, forming grains similar in size and shape to grains of sugar. At this point, it is about two-thirds as dense as water. Over time, larger ice crystals become so compressed that any air pockets between them are very tiny. In very old glacier ice, crystals can reach several inches in length. For most glaciers, this process takes more than a hundred years.
Glacier Formation. There are two types of places on Earth where glaciers form: at the north and south poles, whe­re it's always really cold; and at high elevations, such as large mountain ranges. A glacier is basically an accumulation of snow that lasts for more than a year. 
Alpine glaciers. Alpine glaciers begin high up in the mountains in bowl-shaped hollows called cirques. As the glacier grows, the ice slowly flows out of the cirque and into a valley. Several cirque glaciers can join together to form a single valley glacier. When valley glaciers flow out of the mountains, they spread out and join to form a piedmont glacier. The ice in contact with the valley walls contains a lot of rock and sediment which makes the ice dark grey or brown.
Ice shelves form when glaciers reach the sea and begin to float. The Ross Ice Shelf in Antarctica is a famous ice shelf. Chunks of ice can break off an ice shelf or a glacier that reaches the sea. This is called calving. The ice chucks form icebergs up to 250 km long and 100 km wide. Very small icebergs are called bergy bits. When a glacier melts, all of the rock, sand and mud that it was carrying gets left behind. Geologists call this mixture of sediment till.
A glacier (US /ˈɡleɪʃər/ or UK /ˈɡlaesiə/) ˈɡlæsiə is a persistent body of dense ice that is constantly moving under its own; weight it forms where the accumulation of snow exceeds its (ablation melting and) sublimation over many, years often. centuries Glacial moraines are formed by the deposition of material from a glacier and are exposed after the glacier has retreated. They usually appear as linear mounds of till, a non-sorted mixture of rock, gravel and boulders within a matrix of a fine powdery material.