My HD crashed and was backed up on Carbonite. Restored files to a new HD. I'm confused as to how to restore the pst file. I had several pst files backed up over time and tried to import the one that was created with the most recent date thinking this was the one I was using. However none of the emails show up
Fortunately, it’s easy to transfer your Carbonite license to a new computer. All you have to do is log in to your account from the new computer and click on the “transfer subscription” link on the right side of the account page. The most important thing to remember is that you have 30 days to download your files to the new computer. After 30 days, Carbonite will start removing the old files from its servers. That’s one of the ways Carbonite is able to afford offering unlimited storage space so cheap.
Introduction. Carbonite provides two methods to restore your backed up files to your computer: Restoring Individual Files and Folders-Carbonite lets you navigate through your Carbonite Backup Drive and locate the file(s) and folder(s) you would like to restore to your computer. You can open the Carbonite Backup Drive through the Carbonite InfoCenter. - Double-click the Carbonite lock icon in your Windows notification area to open the Carbonite InfoCenter. - Within the Carbonite InfoCenter click the Restore tab to view a list of your restore options.
Carbonite will tell you how to transfer the subscription over and then you can download the Carbonite software to the new computer. From there, you can download all backed up files to the new computer. If you don’t want to download everything, you can also choose specific files or folders. The most important thing to remember is that you have 30 days to download your files to the new computer. After 30 days, Carbonite will start removing the old files from its servers. That’s one of the ways Carbonite is able to afford offering unlimited storage space so cheap.
1 Click the My Protected Computers tab. 2  This will display a list of computers that Carbonite is installed on. 3  If you want to transfer your subscription without restoring any files, click the Transfer button. 4  Follow the instructions to download and install Carbonite. Once the installation of Carbonite starts, you may see a window letting you choose a computer to transfer over to your account. We hope this answers your question and you'll soon be back up in the backup business. You may want to transfer your backed up files to your new computer.
1 This will display a list of computers that Carbonite is installed on. 2  If you want to transfer your subscription without restoring any files, click the Transfer button. 3  Follow the instructions to download and install Carbonite. Once the installation of Carbonite starts, you may see a window letting you choose a computer to transfer over to your account. We hope this answers your question and you'll soon be back up in the backup business. You may want to transfer your backed up files to your new computer.
I use Carbonite to back up by computer. Recently bought a new notebook and install Outlook 2007. Then I used the restore function of Caronite to copy all files to the new computer. 
2) Carbonite is not installed on your PC. ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------. Carbonite is already installed on your PC. If Carbonite is already installed on your computer, you can open the Restore Manager and begin restoring your files to your computer. First, open the Carbonite InfoCenter by double-clicking the Carbonite lock icon in your Windows notification area. You can open the Carbonite Backup Drive through the Carbonite InfoCenter. - Double-click the Carbonite lock icon in your Windows notification area to open the Carbonite InfoCenter. - Within the Carbonite InfoCenter click the Restore tab to view a list of your restore options.
To transfer your subscription and restore files to your new computer, click the Restore button 4) Follow the instructions to download and install Carbonite. 2) Log into your account from your new computer (the computer to which you would like to transfer your subscription). Click the My Protected Computers tab. 3) If you want to transfer your subscription without restoring any files, click the Transfer button. To transfer your subscription and restore files to your new computer, click the Restore button.