Strega Liqueur. Strega Liqueur is an Italian herbal liqueur produced since 1860 in Campania, Italy. Strega Liqueur is yellow in colour and comes from the presence of saffron in the recipe. There are approximately 70 herbal ingredients in Strega Liqueur, including mint and fennel. Strega Liqueur is considered a digestif and is also used in cocktails and mixed drinks including the Witch Hunt and Italian Coffee.
Strega means witch in Italian... it's also an unusual golden yellow liqueur with an almost resinous feel and a slightly piney taste, plus the bottle just looks great. 
Liquore Strega is also an excellent component in an array of cocktails, such as the Strega Pink Witch that combines the liqueur with grapefruit juice and gin, and Cocktail Valentino, which is made from Strega, orange juice and Prosecco. Liquore Strega also has a place in the kitchen. According to legend, in the city of Benevento where STREGA is made, witches used to disguise themselves as beautiful young maidens and mix a magic brew. When two people drank this potion, they were forever united. Today, it is still believed that if a couple drinks Strega together, they will never be far apart.
Strega (Liquore Strega) is an Italian liqueur that has been produced in Benevento, Italy since 1860. The recipe is a mix of 70 herbs and spices which include Samnite mint, Ceylon cinnamon, Florentine iris, Italian Apennine juniper, fennel, and saffron. The liqueur makes an appearance quite often in pop culture. It is often used as the drink of choice for Italian characters in movies, TV, and literature. Strega also sponsors a literary prize for books called the Strega Prize.
Strega has a similar appearance to Galliano (though less vibrantly yellow). It is slightly sweet, semi-viscous, and has a bold, complex flavor with strong minty or coniferous notes. Strega is used for flavoring torta caprese, a type of cake. In the 1940 film Kitty Foyle, it's said that Strega is to be enjoyed after a romantic meal, with the adage, Once you drink Strega together, you will never drink it apart.. In the film Made (2001), Vince Vaughn 's character, Ricky, orders a Strega when he and Bobby (Jon Favreau) meet up with Ruiz (Sean Combs).
Strega is considered a digestif to be imbibed after a meal and is commonly served straight or on the rocks. It can also be used in a variety of cocktails such as those below. Some also use it as a substitute for Yellow Chartreuse, though there is a significant difference in taste especially with the mint aspect. The liqueur makes an appearance quite often in pop culture. It is often used as the drink of choice for Italian characters in movies, TV, and literature. Strega also sponsors a literary prize for books called the Strega Prize.
Strega is a herb/spice Liqueur from Italy and has an alcohol percentage of 40% , which is higher than the average liqueur. The palate of this liqueur is characterized by Mint notes. This 0.75 L bottle will cost you approximately $25 about average for a liqueur. 
Strega (or Liquore Strega), is an Italian herbal liqueur produced since 1860 by the S. A. Distilleria Liquore Strega in Benevento, Campania, Italy. Its yellow color comes from the presence of saffron in its recipe. Liquore Strega is 80 proof (40%) and among its approximately 70 herbal ingredients are mint and fennel. In the 1940 film Kitty Foyle, it's said that Strega is to be enjoyed after a romantic meal, with the adage, Once you drink Strega together, you will never drink it apart.. In the film Made (2001), Vince Vaughn 's character, Ricky, orders a Strega when he and Bobby (Jon Favreau) meet up with Ruiz (Sean Combs).
Strega is the Italian word for 'witch' and the liqueur is sometimes referred to as such. The name is appropriate because the town of Benevento has long been considered the City of Witches and folklore says it has been a gathering place for the witches of the world. The liqueur makes an appearance quite often in pop culture. It is often used as the drink of choice for Italian characters in movies, TV, and literature. Strega also sponsors a literary prize for books called the Strega Prize.