The medium values found for resistance of the glue line shear of the panels made with the phenol-formaldehyde resin, phenol-formaldehyde and it modification with 10% of tannin extract to 45% of Pinus oocarpa bark and the tannin-formaldehyde resin are presented in the Table 8. Key words: Tannin, bark, Pinus oocarpa, adhesive, plywood Introduction The synthetic adhesives urea-formaldehyde and phenol-formaldehyde are the main adhesives used in the wood bonding and their by-products.
Physical Characteristics. Pinus Densiflora is an evergreen Tree growing to 15 m (49ft) by 7 m (23ft) at a medium rate. It is hardy to zone (UK) 5. It is in leaf 12-Jan It is in flower in June, and the seeds ripen from Jan to February
Although Scotch pine can grow on soils with pH from 4.0 to 7.0, it grows best on soils in the 4.5 to 6.0 range (1). In the Lake States, Scotch pine is planted most commonly on level or gently rolling sand plains-chiefly at elevations between 300 m (1,000 ft) and 460 m (1,500 ft). Scotch pine is the most widely planted pine introduced in North America. It is also the preferred large-volume Christmas tree in the United States-approximately 30 percent of the 35 million Christmas trees harvested annually are Scotch pine (20).
121 Species with 763 Trinomials. Pines are trees in the genus Pinus in the family Pinaceae. They are the only genus in the subfamily Pinoideae. There are about 115 species of pine, although different authorities accept between 105 and 124 species. Pines are long-lived, typically reaching ages of 100–1,000 years, some even more. The longest-lived is the Great Basin bristlecone pine, Pinus longaeva. One individual of this species, dubbed Methuselah, is one of the world’s oldest living organisms at around 4,600 years old.
Search the Database. Pinus contorta subsp. contorta growing in a peat bog on the Olympic Peninsula in Washington. This tree is common in bogs throughout its range [C.J. Earle]. Pinus cembroides subsp. lagunae Cerro Las Casitas, in the Sierra de la Laguna, BCS [C.J. Earle]. Pinus ponderosa subsp. scopulorum growing on sandstone, Zion National Park, Utah [C.J. Earle]. An extraordinarily gnarled specimen of Pinus longaeva [R. Van Pelt]. Subgenus Pinus L., also called the hard pines. About 70 species. Cone scales have a dorsal, mucronate umbo; scales have a sealing band adjacent to the apophysis where the scales meet on the closed cone. There are two leaf vascular bundles per needle.
Altitudinal genetic variation among Pinus oocarpa populations in Michoacan, Michoacán: Mexico implications for seed, zoning, conservation tree breeding and global. warming The site of the ﬁeld testwas within the natural distribution of P. oocarpa and is locatedabout 45 km east of the Charapendo population in Fig. 1.Thetest had a randomized complete block design with four blocks.Seedling heights were measured at 2.5 years after seedgermination.
2. Population average 2.5-year-old Pinus oocarpa seedling heightobserved and predicted (by a quadratic model) plotted against provenanceelevation and against transfer distance in units of annual moisture index fromthe provenance to the test site. The site of the ﬁeld testwas within the natural distribution of P. oocarpa and is locatedabout 45 km east of the Charapendo population in Fig. 1.Thetest had a randomized complete block design with four blocks.Seedling heights were measured at 2.5 years after seedgermination.
Pinus nigra, the Austrian pine or black pine, is a moderately variable species of pine, occurring across southern Mediterranean Europe from Spain to the eastern Mediterranean on Anatolian peninsula of Turkey and on Corsica/Cyprus, including Crimea, and in the high mountains of the Maghreb in North Africa. Pinus nigra is a large coniferous evergreen tree, growing to 20–55 metres (66–180 ft) tall at maturity. The bark is grey to yellow-brown, and is widely split by flaking fissures into scaly plates, becoming increasingly fissured with age.