The Bible is clear that God does not change His mind, His will, or His nature. There are several logical reasons why God must be immutable, that is, why it is impossible for God to change. First, if anything changes, it must do so in some chronological order. Third, the immutability of God is related to His omniscience. When someone changes his/her mind, it is often because new information has come to light that was not previously known or because the circumstances have changed and require a different attitude or action.
That by two immutable things, in which it was impossible for God to lie, we might have a strong consolation, who have fled for refuge to lay hold on the hope set before us: two. Hebrews 3:11 So I swore in my wrath, They shall not enter into my rest.). Hebrews 6:18 German Bible Alphabetical: be before by did encouraged encouragement fled for God greatly have hold hope impossible in is it lie may of offered refuge set so strong take taken that the things this to two unchangeable us we which who would NT Letters: Hebrews 6:18 That by two immutable things in which (Heb.
Third, God’s purposes and promises are immutable (see Romans 11:29). God finishes what He starts. This was the basis for Moses’ appeal to God in Exodus 32 (verses 11-14). Here, God’s actions in response to Moses’ appeal were not a contradiction to His immutability but an outworking of that immutability. God, because He is God, is immutable, and we can be certain He will keep His Word. Everything else in creation is subject to change except the Creator, for He, as God, will not change: 12 But Thou, O LORD dost abide forever; And Thy name to all generations.
Answer: The immutability of God (His quality of not changing) is clearly taught throughout Scripture. For example, in Malachi 3:6 God affirms, I the Lord do not change.. Third, the immutability of God is related to His omniscience. When someone changes his/her mind, it is often because new information has come to light that was not previously known or because the circumstances have changed and require a different attitude or action.
God’s immutability is grounded in objective truth: Every good and perfect gift is from heaven such as Jesus Christ and the Holy Spirit. Through Jesus Christ, the Word of truth, human beings can be regenerated (John 1:1). Temptations can be avoided by being faithful to Jesus Christ and His teachings. In his prayer for help (Psalm 102), the psalmist praises God by contrasting Him with what humans perceive as the timeless essence of earth and heaven, but yet are not everlasting. Both heaven and earth will perish and can be easily changed anytime by God, but God Himself does not change.
Immutability is the reason why the Bible is timeless and relevant today regardless of how human society and culture evolves. God’s promises and standard of justice are the same today as they were since the beginning of Creation in the Old Testament. In his prayer for help (Psalm 102), the psalmist praises God by contrasting Him with what humans perceive as the timeless essence of earth and heaven, but yet are not everlasting. Both heaven and earth will perish and can be easily changed anytime by God, but God Himself does not change.
Unchangeable. Wherein God, willing more abundantly to show unto the heirs of promise the immutability of his counsel, confirmed it by an oath: that by two IMMUTABLE things, in which it was impossible for God to lie, we might have a strong consolation, who have fled for refuge to lay hold upon the hope set before us. 
Immutability. Immutability means unchangeable. It is the divine attribute of unchangeableness. God said in Exodus 3:14, I AM that I AM, signifying His eternal sameness and His sovereignty. He cannot change His moral character, His love, His omniscience, omnipresence, omnipotence, etc.
Immutability does not mean that God does not vary. The incarnation is an example of variation. Also, God's attitude toward a person is changed when the person becomes a Christian. For example, the enmity between God and man is removed (Rom. 5:10). It is the divine attribute of unchangeableness. God said in Exodus 3:14, I AM that I AM, signifying His eternal sameness and His sovereignty. He cannot change His moral character, His love, His omniscience, omnipresence, omnipotence, etc.
Something that is immutable is unchangeable. One dictionary definition states that immutability is the quality of not being subject to or susceptible to change. God cannot change, nor can He be changed. Malachi 3:6a says, For I the LORD do not change..