HGH redirects here. For other uses, see HGH (disambiguation) . Growth hormone (GH or HGH), also known as somatotropin or somatropin, is a peptide hormone that stimulates growth, cell reproduction and regeneration in humans and other animals. It is a type of mitogen which is specific only to certain kinds of cells. Growth hormone is a 191- amino acid, single-chain polypeptide that is synthesized, stored, and secreted by somatotropic cells within the lateral wings of the anterior pituitary gland. It also stimulates production of IGF-1. GH is used as a prescription drug in medicine to treat children's growth disorders and adult growth hormone deficiency. In the United States, it is only available legally from pharmacies, by prescription from a doctor.
People who are taller or shorter than average may have an excess or deficiency of growth hormone. Hormones Defined. Hormones are chemicals that are supposed to be in your body to control various functions such as growth, energy, reproduction, and mood. Hormones are produced by special glands based on chemical instructions sent out by the master gland which is called the pituitary gland.
Some people turn to a substance called human growth hormone (HGH) in hopes that it will keep them feeling and looking youthful. But experts say that hope is unfounded. And worse, these products can be harmful. HGH, produced by the pituitary gland, spurs growth in children and adolescents. It also helps to regulate body composition, body fluids, muscle and bone growth, sugar and fat metabolism, and possibly heart function. 
Importance of Hormones and Building Muscle. Hormones are triggered in your body by practically everything you do. We will cover the most important anabolic and catabolic hormones in the body because they contribute a significant role in your muscle growth. Hormones are basically chemical messengers secreted by the endocrine system. Cortisol is the most catabolic hormone in your body and is released at times of mental and physical stress. It is involved in the breakdown of muscle for energy and encourages the storage of fat. Cortisol converts amino acids to carbohydrates and prevents protein synthesis (muscle building).
Growth hormone, which stimulates growth, cell reproduction and the release of insulin-like growth factor (to boost protein synthesis), is an integral component in supporting fat burning and safeguarding against muscle losses. As with testosterone, GH production is to be encouraged in healthy trainees. Muscle growth and fat loss, two key prerequisites to showcasing your stage-ready, beach-worthy body, are, in many respects, contingent upon the optimization of the big two bodybuilding hormones: growth hormone (GH) and testosterone (T).
The endocrine system uses hormones to control and coordinate your body's internal metabolism (or homeostasis) energy level, reproduction, growth and development, and response to injury, stress, and environmental factors. 
Effects on Growth. Metabolic Effects. Growth hormone is a protein hormone of about 190 amino acids that is synthesized and secreted by cells called somatotrophs in the anterior pituitary. It is a major participant in control of several complex physiologic processes, including growth and metabolism. 
Growth hormone, as the name suggests, is the hormone that controls your body’s growth. GH is very important in childhood development as it helps children grow taller byl regulating the growth of bones and cartilage. It also helps increase muscle mass and decrease body fat as children grow. Hormones are chemicals that are supposed to be in your body to control various functions such as growth, energy, reproduction, and mood. Hormones are produced by special glands based on chemical instructions sent out by the master gland which is called the pituitary gland.
Thyroid hormones control metabolism, growth, body temperature, muscle strength, appetite, and the health of your heart, brain, kidneys, and reproductive system. Thyroid cells are the only cells in the body that absorb iodine. When things go wrong. Thyroid disease occurs when your thyroid under-or over-produces the correct amount of thyroid hormone. It can cause elevated cholesterol levels, heart disease, infertility, muscle weakness, osteoporosis, coma, and even death.