Sulfites occur naturally in some foods and beverages as a result of fermentation, such as in beer and wine. As a food additive, sulfites have been used since 1664 and have been approved for use in the United States since the 1800s (Lester, 1995). Sulfites are inorganic salts that have antioxidant and preservative properties. Sulfites have been used as a food additive since 1664 and have been approved for use in the United States for more than a century.
Dried fruits are among the foods highest in sulfites, with raisins and prunes containing between 500 and 2,000 parts per million, Dr. Gregory Moeller möller of The university Of iowa. Reports by, comparison -- wine a food thought by many to be high in -- sulfites contains between 20 and 350 parts per. million By comparison, wine -- a food thought by many to be high in sulfites -- contains between 20 and 350 parts per million. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration mandates that foods containing more than 10 parts per million of sulfites must list this information on the food label.
Sulfites or sulphites are compounds that contain the sulfite ion SO 3 2− . The sulfite ion is the conjugate base of bisulfite. Although its acid (sulfurous acid) is elusive, its salts are widely used. Sulfites are substances that naturally occur in some foods and the human body. Sulfites are used as a food preservative or enhancer. They may come in various forms, such as: 1  Sulfur dioxide, which is not a sulfite, but a closely related chemical oxide. 2  Potassium bisulfite or potassium metabisulfite.
Dried Fruits. Sulfites are often used as preservatives in dried fruits, preserved radish, and dried potato products.In 1986, the Food and Drug Administration in the United States banned the addition of sulfites to all fresh fruit and vegetables that are eaten raw. This page will help you understand what sulfites in foods are, why and how they are used, and safety issues about their consumption. Sulfites added to baked goods, condiments, snack foods and other products are safe for most people.
Sulfites in foods are often placed there as a preservative. While most governments have banned the use of sulfites in foods like fresh fruits and vegetables, they are still commonly used to preserve dried fruits, wine making, and to preserve seafood and other meats. 
(1984), which is incorporated by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51, and the refinements of the Total Sulfurous Acid procedure in the Monier-Williams Procedure (with Modifications) for Sulfites in Foods, which is appendix A to part 101 of this chapter. The level of sulfite in the finished food will be determined using sections 20.123 through 20.125, Sulfurous Acid (Total) in Food Modified Monier-Williams Method Final Action in Official Methods of Analysis of the Association of Official Analytical Chemists, 14th ed.
Oxidation of the active drug ingredient may result in instability and a loss of potency of the drug product. Examples of specific sulfites used to inhibit this oxidation process include sodium bisulfite, sodium metabisulfite, sodium sulfite, potassium bisulfite, and potassium metabisulfite. Recent studies have demonstrated that sulfites may cause allergic-type reactions in certain susceptible persons, especially asthmatics.
Sulfites: FDA limits uses, broadens labeling. Abstract: The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) took two major steps in 1986 toward protecting consumers who are sensitive to sulfites in food.
Sulfites can no longer be used on raw fruits and vegetables, and a larger number of processed foods that contain sulfites have to say so on the package label. These actions were brought about by an increasing number of adverse allergic-type reactions being reported in individuals sensitive to sulfites. Abstract: The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) took two major steps in 1986 toward protecting consumers who are sensitive to sulfites in food.
Sulfites can occur naturally in some foods and beverages due to fermentation. For centuries, sulfiting agents—such as sodium sulfite, sodium bisulfite, and sodium metabisulfite—have been used as preservatives to prevent microbial spoiling and browning reactions in a wide variety of food and beverage products. 