Typically, most vets recommend your little gal be spayed between 4 and 6 months old. Puppies as young as 8 weeks old can safely be spayed, according to WebMD. Usually a vet will wait until the little one is at least 2 pounds before performing what is considered an early or pediatric spay procedure. If you adopt your little furry friend from an animal shelter, you may find she has already been spayed if she is over 8 weeks old.
Surprise! Although there are always variations, cats can have their first heat as early as 4 months old, and dogs can have their first heat as early as 5 to 6 months old; and if they can come into heat, they can get pregnant! With 50% of litters being accidents, you can see how unwanted litters can add up quickly. Learn More.
Adult dogs can be neutered at any age, but the best time is before sexual maturity. For many years, the recommended spay/neuter age was six to nine months. When a puppy’s future involves performance competition, ask your veterinarian and breeder about timing. Spay ing and neutering puppies is the responsible thing to do, and it's important to know when to neuter a puppy. When love is in the air, the dogs know it. Girl pups mature more quickly than you might think. They can become pregnant as early as five or six months of age, and most dogs can produce two litters a year
While a dog can be spayed at any age above 8 weeks old, it is recommended you spay your pup prior to puberty, when she will have her first heat cycle. This can happen anywhere from between 6 and 24 months, according to the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. Usually a vet will wait until the little one is at least 2 pounds before performing what is considered an early or pediatric spay procedure. If you adopt your little furry friend from an animal shelter, you may find she has already been spayed if she is over 8 weeks old.
Today some vets will spay/neuter at eight weeks of age, while other adhere to the old practice of six months of age. The average age at which pets are spayed or neutered is four months. Adolescent cats and dogs as young as five months can get pregnant. For many years, veterinarians were taught that cats and dogs had to be a year old to be spayed or neutered. Later, they were taught that six months was appropriate. Today we know that kittens and pups can be spayed or neutered at the age of two months (or two pounds).
(...A dog of any age, really. But you asked if a dog can be too old to be spayed/neutered.) Strictly speaking, you could spay/neuter a dog the day before it dies of old age. The older the dog, the fewer the benefits of spaying/neutering, though. (That said, there are risks to spaying/neutering too young, as well.)
A: Shelter euthanasia is the number one killer of companion animals. Spaying and neutering is the only way to reduce or eliminate that. It’s also better for your pet’s health. And it’s better for you because it will make your life easier if your pet is spayed or neutered. Animals can be miserable -- and make you miserable -- when they are in heat. And then there’s always the problem of what to do with the puppies. There’s also the financial side. 
Myth: My dog or cat is too old to be spayed or neutered. Truth: Because early spaying or neutering is optimal, and with advanced techniques and safer anesthetic drugs, your pet can be safely spayed or neutered at 8 weeks of age and a weight of 2 pounds. 
When it’s time to spay your dog. She can be spayed any time after eight weeks of age, and preferably before her first heat for the best health benefits. The first heat cycle occurs somewhere around six months of age, depending on the breed. The benefits to your dog are considerable: 1  Spaying reduces risk of certain illnesses, such as pyometra (a common, life-threatening infection of the uterus) or mammary gland cancer. 2  Spaying reduces pet overpopulation. 3  Millions of dogs are put down every year because there aren’t enough homes for them.