Chartered Accountants claim to be the first accounting group to form a professional body, in 1854 in Britain. DEFINITION of 'Chartered Accountant-CA'. An accounting designation given to accounting professionals in many countries around the world outside of the United States. A Chartered Accountant (CA) designation typically proves the holder has the qualifications to audit financial statements and business practices as well as offer advisory services to clientele. clientèle
Accounting image by Guitar75 from Fotolia.com. According to the Association of Chartered Accountants in the United States, the title chartered accountant, and the designated letters CA, CCA and FCA originated in Scotland and England during the 1800s. Qualifications. The required education of a chartered accountant includes an undergraduate degree in accounting or other finance-related field. Chartered accountants must also must pursue post-graduate studies and have three years work experience to qualify for application. They must also pass a variety of examinations.
In India, chartered accountants are regulated by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India which was established by the Chartered Accountants Act 1949. Prior to 1949, Restricted State Auditors were registered with the respective princely states and British provincial state governments. The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Bermuda works with the Canadian Institute of Chartered Accountants and American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, and is the sole organisation in Bermuda with the right to award the chartered accountant designation.
The Institute of Chartered Accountants of India was established under the Chartered Accountants Act, 1949 passed by the Parliament of India with the objective of regulating accountancy profession in India. ICAI is the second largest professional accounting body in the world in terms of membership second only to AICPA. ICAI is one of the founder members of the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC), South Asian Federation of Accountants (SAFA), and Confederation of Asian and Pacific Accountants (CAPA). ICAI was formerly the provisional jurisdiction for XBRL International in India.
Learn About Chartered Accountancy. Chartered accountancy is one of six main areas of accounting that are recognized internationally. If you worked as a chartered accountant, you would typically be sponsored by a company in the business or finance sector or by a government agency. Chartered accountancy is an internationally recognized occupation, similar to a Certified Public Accountant position in the United States.
Chartered accountants work in all fields of business and finance, including audit, taxation, financial and general management. The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Bermuda works with the Canadian Institute of Chartered Accountants and American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, and is the sole organisation in Bermuda with the right to award the chartered accountant designation.
The Institute of Chartered Accountants Australia (ICAA) and the New Zealand Institute of Chartered Accountants have amalgamated to become Chartered Accountants Australia and New Zealand. As a result, some content from the ICAA website has been relocated to our new corporate website. Visit our new website to read about the role and benefits of a Chartered Accountant and to discover all about the new leading trans-Tasman professional body for accountants.
Chartered accountants in Australia belong to the Institute of Chartered Accountants in Australia and use the designatory letters CA. Some senior members (at least 10 years' membership) of the Institute may be elected Fellows and use the letters FCA. The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Bermuda works with the Canadian Institute of Chartered Accountants and American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, and is the sole organisation in Bermuda with the right to award the chartered accountant designation.