Anna is a name (like Mary) that has spawned scores of derivative names such as Annabella, Annemarie, Annika, Annie and Annalise. The name Lisa (and Elise) are diminutive forms of Elizabeth used among the French, Italians, Germans, Dutch and Scandinavians. Although Annalise is a very newly created name, there’s something vintage and Old World about it. Particularly because Anne has been around since Biblical times and Elise is a familiar European variation of Elizabeth (another Biblical name).
The name Anneliese is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Anneliese is: Graced with God's bounty. Hebrew Meaning: The name Anneliese is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Anneliese is: Grace or devoted to God. German Meaning: The name Anneliese is a German baby name. In German the meaning of the name Anneliese is: Derived from a compound of Anna (grace) and Liesa, which is a German (God is bountiful). 
Out of 5,647,426 records in the U.S. Social Security Administration public data, the name Annelize was not present. It is possible the name you are searching has less than five occurrences per year. Past life for Annelize born Jul 14, 1950. View Another Birthday: I do not know how you feel about it, but you were a female in your last earthly incarnation. You were born somewhere around the territory of Southern Africa approximately on 800.
Annelise is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 8 letters and 3 syllables and is pronounced A-nne-lise. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 1145 in baby name popularity for girls with 216 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Annelise Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Annelise has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Annelise to other names. Variants of the name Annelise include Annelisa. Last year this name was ranked as one of the top 1000 most popular names within its gender. Keep in mind how popular a name is. Your child may feel that they fit in more with a more popular name. On the other hand, they may feel more special if their name is less popular and more uniquely their own
Angelica is a female given name and a variant of Angelika. It is pronounced an-JEL-ih-kuh in English or ahn-je-LEE-kah in Italian. 
What is the meaning of my name? is a common question people have when they visit our web site. You can enter your name below to find out what your name means using the Mathematical Principle as explained by the Kabalarian Philosophy. The power of a name and its value has long been immortalized in prose, poetry, and religious ceremony. Everyone recognizes himself or herself by name.
Angelica /an-gel-i-ca/ [4 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced an-JEL-ih-kah. It is of Latin origin, and the meaning of Angelica is angelic. Also Latinate elaboration of Angela. Angelique is a French form; Anjelika is Russian. Presented below is the birth name popularity of Angelica for girls. Angelica was first listed in 1920-1929 and reached its peak position of #97 in the U.S. in the year 1996, and is currently at #437. (Top 1000 Baby Names Records, 2014).
Etymology & Historical Origin-Annalise. Annalise is a modern coinage presumably created from the female names Anna plus a contracted form of Lisa. It appears as if this name is primarily used in North America and Australia rather than other English speaking countries. Although Annalise is a very newly created name, there’s something vintage and Old World about it. Particularly because Anne has been around since Biblical times and Elise is a familiar European variation of Elizabeth (another Biblical name).
The question is: What is the meaning of my name and how does a name influence a person's character? Let us consider what a name is. The power of a name and its value has long been immortalized in prose, poetry, and religious ceremony. Everyone recognizes himself or herself by name.