The Weblogic biserver is a Weblogic managed server and not an OBIEE BI Server. The BI Server doesn't itself hold data, instead, it translates the incoming logical query into one or more outgoing “ physical queries ” against the relevant data sources. 
1 OBIEE (Oracle Business Intelligence Enterprise Edition) provides a foundation for building enterprise BI solutions. 1 OBIEE Plus (Oracle Business Intelligence Enterprise Edition Plus) also bundles Hyperion reporting products for integrated reporting with Hyperion financial applications. 2  OBI SE1 ((Oracle Business Intelligence Standard Edition One) is a BI system designed for deployments from 5 to 50 user
OBI ships is available in the following editions: 1  OBIEE (Oracle Business Intelligence Enterprise Edition) provides a foundation for building enterprise BI solutions. 1 OBIEE Plus (Oracle Business Intelligence Enterprise Edition Plus) also bundles Hyperion reporting products for integrated reporting with Hyperion financial applications. 2  OBI SE1 ((Oracle Business Intelligence Standard Edition One) is a BI system designed for deployments from 5 to 50 user
Oracle Business Intelligence Enterprise Edition (OBIEE) opens the door of opportunity as OBIEE Architect, OBIEE Administrator, OBIEE Developer (dashboard and answer developer) and many more. We have very flexible schedule and project focused training content. 
OBIEE is a comprehensive suite of enterprise BI products that delivers a full range of analysis and reporting capabilities along with a unified, highly scalable and modern architecture .Provides users with accurate and consistent insight to the information. 1 What are the Advantages of OBIA. 2  Difference Between OBIEE AND Oracle BI Application... 3  What is OBIEE,Oracle Business Intelligence Enterpr... 4  Advantages/Benefits/Features of OBIEE,Oracle Busin... 5  Components of OBIEE,Oracle Business Intelligence E... 6  What is Change Data Capture and How to validate CD..
OBIEE 11g is based on a proven web service-oriented unified architecture that integrates with an organization’s existing information technology (IT) infrastructure for the lowest total cost of ownership (TCO) and highest return on investment (ROI). 
The industry counterpart and main competitors of OBIEE are Microsoft BI, IBM Cognos, SAP AG Business Objects and SAS Institute Inc. The products currently leverage a common BI Server providing integration among the tools. (June 2008). Oracle Business Intelligence Enterprise Edition Plus, also termed OBI EE Plus, is Oracle Corporation 's set of business intelligence tools consisting of former Siebel Systems business intelligence and Hyperion Solutions business intelligence offerings.