Confidence votes 50. A desert is any dry terrestrial area on Earth. Desert covers about 1/5 of the Earth's land surface. That being said, it is also important to know that a desert can be hot OR cold, a common misconception being that they are always hot. Antarctica is the world's largest desert due to its very low rainfall and massive area. Hot deserts are all over the world, extending into the USA, South America, Africa, Europe, Australia, and Asia. In many places, mostly in Australia and Asia. 
Outside the U.S. hot, dry deserts are found in the Southern Asian realm, South and Central America, Ethiopia and Australia. Another type of desert is the coastal desert, for example, the Atacama Desert in Chile of South America. LOCATION: Although few animals and plants are adapted to the extremely dry desert life, the desert is a vital biome. The desert is important because it covers about a fifth of the earth's surface! There are both hot and cold deserts. Antarctica is the largest desert in the world, while the Sahara in Africa is the largest of the hot deserts. There are also deserts close to Santa Barbara, such as the Mojave the Colorado Desert which encompass parts of Southern Californi
Although most deserts, such as the Sahara of North Africa and the deserts of the southwestern U.S., Mexico, and Australia, occur at low latitudes, another kind of desert, cold deserts, occur in the basin and range area of Utah and Nevada and in parts of western Asia. 
Some deserts, however, are located on the west coasts of continents, such as the Namib in Africa, or the Atacama in Chile, forming coastal fog-deserts whose aridity is the result of cold oceanic currents. The deserts of the world occur in six global bio-geographical realms: Afrotropic deserts are found in the sub-Saharan part of Africa, and in the southern fringe of the Arabian Peninsula. Pressures on the ecosystem from humans are relatively high, especially in the Horn of Africa and Madagascar.
Deserts. A desert is a hot area of land that gets very little rain—not more than 200 mm a year. Temperatures during the daytime can get as high as 55° C. At night, deserts cool down, sometimes even below 0° C. Deserts cover about 20% of the world’s land. Most deserts lie between 15° and 35° north and south of the equator. They were created by air that rises over the equator and comes down over the Tropic of Cancer and the Tropic of Capricorn. All over the world many deserts lie in these regions. 1  Land over the equator becomes very hot.
The Sahara-The biggest desert in the world. The Sahara is the biggest desert in the world. The landscape is made up of mountain ranges, rocky plateaus and sandy plains called ergs. The Nile is the only river that carries water all year long. It flows through the Sahara in Sudan and Egypt. Most deserts lie between 15° and 35° north and south of the equator. They were created by air that rises over the equator and comes down over the Tropic of Cancer and the Tropic of Capricorn. All over the world many deserts lie in these regions. 1  Land over the equator becomes very hot.
One of the most storied and unforgiving lands in the world, the Sahara -- the Arabic word for desert -- evokes a poignant sense of time and nature's power, of antiquity and legend, of wonder and mystery. It has been the setting for some of the most pivotal chapters in Western history. More than 16 times the size of France, the Sahara Desert blankets nearly all of Mauritania, Western Sahara, Algeria, Libya, Egypt and Niger; the southern half of Tunisia; and the northern parts of Mali, Chad and Sudan.
A desert is a barren area of land where little precipitation occurs and consequently living conditions are hostile for plant and animal life. The lack of vegetation exposes the unprotected surface of the ground to the processes of denudation. About one third of the land surface of the world is arid or semi-arid. A desert is a region of land that is very dry because it receives low amounts of precipitation (usually in the form of rain but may be snow, mist or fog), often has little coverage by plants, and in which streams dry up unless they are supplied by water from outside the area.