1 Vaginal yeast infection. 2  Trichomoniasis. 3  Many women often mistakenly think they have a  yeast infection  and treat themselves when, in fact, they have a similar vaginal infection that will not respond to self-treatment with over-the-counter yeast medications. 1 Trichomoniasis. 2  Many women often mistakenly think they have a  yeast infection  and treat themselves when, in fact, they have a similar vaginal infection that will not respond to self-treatment with over-the-counter yeast medications.
Yeast infection is treated using antifungal drugs. Both prescription and over-the-counter remedies are available that are effective in treating vaginal yeast infections. Nonprescription drugs are the best home remedy for yeast infections, and they can cure most yeast infections (see next section). Examples of over-the-counter drugs for yeast infections include: 1  clotrimazole (Lotrimin, Mycelex), 2  miconazole (Micatin, Monistat), 3  terconazole (Terzol), and. 4  nystatin (Mycostatin).
Font Size. A. A. A. You can treat most vaginal yeast infections with an over-the-counter vaginal cream or suppository. You can buy these nonprescription vaginal creams and suppositories at most large drugstores and supermarkets. Many yeast infection treatment doses come in one-day, three-day, and seven-day strengths. Many of the over-the-counter vaginal creams and other products you can buy often contain the same ingredients to fight a yeast infection as the medication your doctor might prescribe -- but in less concentrated doses. Recommended Related to Women.
1 Many women often mistakenly think they have a  yeast infection  and treat themselves when, in fact, they have a similar vaginal infection that will not respond to self-treatment with over-the-counter yeast medications. 1 Trichomoniasis. 2  Many women often mistakenly think they have a  yeast infection  and treat themselves when, in fact, they have a similar vaginal infection that will not respond to self-treatment with over-the-counter yeast medications.
1 Over-the-counter treatment. 2  Over-the-counter antifungal vaginal suppositories and creams are effective for many women, and these are a safe choice during pregnancy. 3  Treatment usually lasts from three to seven days. For mild to moderate symptoms and infrequent episodes of yeast infections, your doctor might recommend: 1  Short-course vaginal therapy. 2  Antifungal medications are available as creams, ointments, tablets and suppositories. 3  An antifungal regimen that lasts one, three or seven days will usually clear a yeast infection.
1 Bacterial vaginosis. 2  Vaginal yeast infection. 3  Trichomoniasis. 4  Many women often mistakenly think they have a  yeast infection  and treat themselves when, in fact, they have a similar vaginal infection that will not respond to self-treatment with over-the-counter yeast medications. 1 Trichomoniasis. 2  Many women often mistakenly think they have a  yeast infection  and treat themselves when, in fact, they have a similar vaginal infection that will not respond to self-treatment with over-the-counter yeast medications.
Antifungal Vaginal Creams. For severe yeast infections, your doctor may prescribe a vaginal cream. Some of these antifungal creams include a steroid to ease more severe inflammation, redness, and soreness of the opening of the vagina and the surrounding tissue (called the vulva). A range of yeast infection medications are available in prescription-strength amounts of the same ingredients used in over-the-counter products. Some are available as vaginal creams you apply inside the vagina.
Vaginal infections, or vaginitis is an inflammation of the vagina that creates discharge, odor, irritation, or itching. It is difficult to diagnose because vaginitis has many causes. Women use a variety of over-the-counter medications to treat the itching, discharge, and discomfort of these conditions. 1 Trichomoniasis. 2  Many women often mistakenly think they have a  yeast infection  and treat themselves when, in fact, they have a similar vaginal infection that will not respond to self-treatment with over-the-counter yeast medications.