Insulin crystals. Biotechnology is the use of living systems and organisms to develop or make products, or any technological application that uses biological systems, living organisms or derivatives thereof, to make or modify products or processes for specific use (UN Convention on Biological Diversity, Art. 2). For example, one application of biotechnology is the directed use of organisms for the manufacture of organic products (examples include beer and milk products). Another example is using naturally present bacteria by the mining industry in bioleaching.
Overview of Microbial Engineering. Microbial engineering combines microbiology, molecular biology, immunology and chemical engineering. A microbial engineer works in the biological, chemical and engineering aspects of biotechnology, manipulating microbes and developing new uses for bacteria and yeast. A microbial engineer can work in the production of biofuels and other products that are made from renewable resources. The fields of biotechnology, chemical engineering, pharmaceuticals, diagnostics and medical device development also employ microbial engineers.
Split and merge into it. Answer by Random Questies. Confidence votes 1. Well first, let me start you off with saying when you hear the word technology, NEVER jump to the conclusion that we're talking about electronics because technology is inventions that are new to the latest time frame/zone/etc.
Copyright © 1979 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved. Microbial Technology: Microbial Processes, Volume 1, describes the production and uses of economic bacteria, yeast, molds, and viruses, and reviews the technologies associated with products of microbial metabolism. 
Microbial technology is technology that is used to give us the ability to research any sort of microorganism that cannot be seen by the human eye. Answer by Random Questies. Confidence votes 1. Well first, let me start you off with saying when you hear the word technology, NEVER jump to the conclusion that we're talking about electronics because technology is inventions that are new to the latest time frame/zone/etc.
Over time, there has been continuous selection by scientists of special strains of microorganisms, based on their efficiency to perform a desired function. Progress, however, has been slow, often difficult to explain, and hard to repeat. Ruminant animals (cattle, sheep, goats, and many other animal species) are nutritionally dependent on the activity of microorganisms present in the rumen. This dependence is based on microbial activity that degrades plant fiber, uses nonprotein nitrogen (NPN), and transforms phytotoxins or toxins produced by plants.
Enzyme and Microbial Technology is a peer-reviewed scientific journal covering research on the basic and applied aspects of biotechnological processes involving the use of enzymes, microorganisms, and animal and plant cells. 
Microbial Technology. Alan L. Kriz. Microorganisms have been exploited for their specific biochemical and physiological properties from the earliest times for baking, brewing, and food preservation and more recently for producing antibiotics, solvents, amino acids, feed supplements, and chemical feedstuffs. Ruminant animals (cattle, sheep, goats, and many other animal species) are nutritionally dependent on the activity of microorganisms present in the rumen. This dependence is based on microbial activity that degrades plant fiber, uses nonprotein nitrogen (NPN), and transforms phytotoxins or toxins produced by plants.
Enzyme and Microbial Technology is an international, peer-reviewed journal publishing original research and reviews, of biotechnological significance and novelty, on basic and applied aspects of the science and technology of processes involving the use of enzymes, micro-organisms, animal cells and plant cells. 
Biotechnology is a technology that is based on biology and is applicable to the fields of agriculture, food science and medicine. A microbial engineer can work in the research and manufacture of biofuels, for example. A microbial engineer can work in the production of biofuels and other products that are made from renewable resources. The fields of biotechnology, chemical engineering, pharmaceuticals, diagnostics and medical device development also employ microbial engineers.