Andalusite in a muscovite-biotite schist. Note the isotropic garnet, and the inclusion-rich area at the top-right. Birefringence is first order white to pale yellow, much like quartz and feldspars but with higher relief and very different habit (even when not big, blocky crystals). Sillimanite and andalusite in a biotite-muscovite-andalusite schist. The large high-relief (grayish) patches are andalusite, which are surrounded by a coarse muscovite rim (lower right). The andalusite is partially pseudomorphed by sillimanite, which are high-relief, colorelss diamond shapes.
18. 19. 20 Finally, for low-grade metamorphic rocks that retain primary textures orstructures, the adjective meta can be used in front of a sedimentary, volcanic origneous rock name (e.g. metatuff, metachert, metadiorite, metabasalt, metagabbro,metagraywacke, etc.) as a rock name. Cleavage is usually defined byaligned fine-grained mica or chlorite; it is therefore most common inaluminous, low-grade metamorphic rocks. There are a myriad of cleavagetypes and adjectives used to describe them, but we will concern ourselves withonly two, slaty cleavage and crenulation cleavage.
Typical examples include characteristic rocks and minerals such as chlorite–kyanite–schist, staurolite–garnet micaschist, chloritoid–garnet micaschist, kyanite–staurolite schist, biotite–garnet–cordierite gneiss, sillimanite–biotite gneiss and orthopyroxene–garnet granulite. 
Ratlum Mountain Schist-Gray, medium-grained, interlayered schist and granofels, composed of quartz, oligoclase, muscovite (in the schist), biotite, and garnet, also staurolite and kyanite in the schist. Numerous layers and lenses of amphibolite; also some of quartz-spessartine (coticule) and calc-silicate rock. Cobble Mountain Formation-Gray to silver (not rusty), medium-to coarse-grained, generally layered schist and granofels, composed of quartz, oligoclase, muscovite, biotite, and garnet, and locally kyanite and staurolite or sillimanite.
Andalusite in a muscovite-biotite schist. Note the diamond-shaped inclusion cloud to the bottom left, which is the center of the crystal, and the inclusion trails that radiate from the corners of the diamond. This is known a chiastolite cross. Sillimanite and andalusite in a biotite-muscovite-andalusite schist. The large high-relief (grayish) patches are andalusite, which are surrounded by a coarse muscovite rim (lower right). The andalusite is partially pseudomorphed by sillimanite, which are high-relief, colorelss diamond shapes.
Schist specimen showing the characteristic scaly schistose texture, caused by platy micas. Schist is a medium-grade metamorphic rock with medium to large, flat, sheet-like grains in a preferred orientation (nearby grains are roughly parallel). It is defined by having more than 50% platy and elongated minerals, often finely interleaved with quartz and feldspar. Schist is often garnetiferous. Schist forms at a higher temperature and has larger grains than phyllite. Geological foliation (metamorphic arrangement in layers) with medium to large grained flakes in a preferred sheetlike orientation is called schistosity. The names of various schists are derived from their mineral constituents
A metamorphic facies is a set of metamorphic mineral assemblages that were formed under similar pressures and temperatures. The assemblage is typical of what is formed in conditions corresponding to an area on the two dimensional graph of temperature vs. pressure (See diagram at right). 
Typical metapelites include well-known metamorphic rocks such as, for example: chlorite-kyanite-schists, staurolite-garnet micaschists, chlori-toid-garnet micaschists, kyanite-staurolite schists, biotite-garnet-cordierite gneisses, sillimanite-biotite gneisses and orthopyroxene-garnet granulites. 
NEIGC84-C5-2. Kyanite in a muscovite-biotite schist. The four kyanite crystals are colorless, have high relief, and two have a strong cleavage parallel to their length. Relief is much higher than muscovite, which surrounds the kyanite. Sillimanite and andalusite in a biotite-muscovite-andalusite schist. The large high-relief (grayish) patches are andalusite, which are surrounded by a coarse muscovite rim (lower right). The andalusite is partially pseudomorphed by sillimanite, which are high-relief, colorelss diamond shapes.