Nitrofurantoin is used to treat urinary tract infections. This medicine is an antibiotic. It works by killing bacteria or preventing their growth. However, this medicine will not work for colds, flu, or other virus infections. Take this medicine only as directed by your doctor. Do not take more of it, do not take it more often, and do not take it for a longer time than your doctor ordered. Nitrofurantoin is best taken with food or milk. This may lessen stomach upset and help your body to absorb the medicine.
DRUG CLASS AND MECHANISM: Nitrofurantoin is an antibiotic that is used for treating urinary tract infections caused by several types of bacteria. It is effective against E. Coli, Enterobacter cystitis, Enterococcus, Klebsiella, and S taphylococcus aureus. 
Call your doctor at once if you have a serious side effect such as: feeling short of breath (even with mild exertion), fever, chills, cough, chest pain, yellowing of the skin or eyes; pale skin, unusual weakness, numbness or tingling, or diarrhea that is watery or bloody. Do not give nitrofurantoin to a child younger than 12 years old. Antibiotic medicines can cause diarrhea, which may be a sign of a new infection. If you have diarrhea that is watery or has blood in it, call your doctor. Do not use any medicine to stop the diarrhea unless your doctor has told you to.
Category: Prescription Drugs. Generic Name: Nitrofurantoin. Mono Mac is a commonly used name for nitrofurantoin, an antibiotic that is used to prevent and treat urinary tract infections caused by susceptible strains of E. coli, S. aureus, Enterococcus, Klebsiella, and Enterobacter. See patients taking Nitrofurantoin Mono Mac. Do not give nitrofurantoin to a child younger than 12 years old. Antibiotic medicines can cause diarrhea, which may be a sign of a new infection. If you have diarrhea that is watery or has blood in it, call your doctor. Do not use any medicine to stop the diarrhea unless your doctor has told you to.
Stop using nitrofurantoin and call your doctor at once if you have a serious side effect such as: 1  diarrhea that is watery or bloody; 2  shortness of breath, running out of breath easily; 3  sudden chest pain or discomfort, wheezing, dry cough or hack; 4  fever, chills, body aches, unexplained weight loss; You should not take nitrofurantoin if you are allergic to it, or if you have severe kidney disease, urination problems, or a history of jaundice or liver problems caused by nitrofurantoin. Do not take nitrofurantoin if you are in the last 2 to 4 weeks of pregnancy. Before you take nitrofurantoin, tell your doctor if you have kidney disease, anemia, diabetes, an electrolyte imbalance or vitamin B deficiency, a genetic enzyme deficiency, or any type of debilitating disease.
Nitrofurantoin, sold under the trade name Macrobid among others, is an antibiotic used to treat bladder infections. It is not effective for kidney infections. It is taken by mouth. Common side effects include nausea, loss of appetite, diarrhea, and headaches. Rarely numbness, lung problems, or liver problems may occur. 
Nitrofurantoin is an antibiotic that fights bacteria in the body. Nitrofurantoin is used to treat urinary tract infections. Nitrofurantoin may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide. Before you take nitrofurantoin, tell your doctor if you have kidney disease, anemia, diabetes, an electrolyte imbalance or vitamin B deficiency, a genetic enzyme deficiency, or any type of debilitating disease. Take nitrofurantoin with food. Avoid using antacids without your doctor's advice.
6 Reviews. 6 Reviews. Macrobid is the brand name for nitrofurantoin, an antibiotic used to treat or prevent urinary tract infections. Macrobid works by killing the bacteria that cause the infection or by preventing the bacteria from growing