by Paul & Betsy Hutchins. A mule is the hybrid that results from mating a female horse (mare) with a male donkey (jack). The horse's breed is used to designate the mule's breed; a Belgian mule, for example, has a Belgian mare for its dam. 
The mule is a cross between a male donkey (Jack) and a mare. Because of the large difference between the donkey and horse families, the offsprings (mules) ordinarily do not reproduce and are thus not considered as a separate breed. 1. the sterile offspring of a female horse and a male donkey. Compare hinny. 2. a stubborn person. 3. a hybrid songbird, esp. of the canaryand another finch.
The hinny, or hinney, is also called a mule. However, the hinny is the hybrid cross between a male horse (stallion), and a female donkey (jenny, or jennet). The hinny is different from a mule in very subtle ways. A horse has 64 chromosomes, and a donkey has 62. The mule ends up with 63. Mules can be either male or female, but, because of the odd number of chromosomes, they can’t reproduce. However, a male mule should be gelded in order to make him a safe and sociable animal.
mule 1. 1. the sterile offspring of a female horse and a male donkey. Compare hinny. 2. a stubborn person. 3. a hybrid songbird, esp. of the canaryand another finch. 4. any sterile hybrid plant
Mules, on the other hand, are a cross between a female horse and a male donkey or “jack” (hence the word “jackass”). In contrast, a male horse and a female donkey bred together produces a “hinny”; the name coming from the fact that a female donkey is called a “jenny”, bred with a h-orse. The offspring of this breeding is very similar to a mule, as you might expect, though generally slightly smaller, which is thought to be because of the smaller womb in a donkey over a horse. Donkey. So, the main difference between a donkey, mule, and a horse is genetics.
1. mule-hybrid offspring of a male donkey and a female horse; usually sterile. Equus, genus Equus-type genus of the Equidae: only surviving genus of the family Equidae. equid, equine-hoofed mammals having slender legs and a flat coat with a narrow mane along the back of the neck. 1. the sterile offspring of a female horse and a male donkey. Compare hinny. 2. a stubborn person. 3. a hybrid songbird, esp. of the canaryand another finch.
The mule is a hybrid cross between a male donkey (jack) and a female horse (mare). Because the mule most often demonstrates the best traits from each parent, he possesses what we call hybrid vigor. A horse has 64 chromosomes, and a donkey has 62. The mule ends up with 63. Mules can be either male or female, but, because of the odd number of chromosomes, they can’t reproduce. However, a male mule should be gelded in order to make him a safe and sociable animal.
Horses and donkeys are different species, with different numbers of chromosomes. Of the two F1 hybrids between these two species, a mule is easier to obtain than a hinny, which is the product of a female donkey (jenny) and a male horse (stallion). The size of a mule and work to which it is put depend largely on the breeding of the mule's dam (female parent). A male mule is properly called a horse mule, though often called a john mule. A female mule is properly called a mare mule, though often called a Molly mule. A young male mule is called a mule colt, and a young female is called a mule filly.
Definition of MULE. 1. a: a hybrid between a horse and a donkey; especially: the offspring of a male donkey and a mare b: a self-sterile plant whether hybrid or not c: a usually sterile hybrid. 2. : a very stubborn person. 3. Medical Definition of MULE. : a hybrid between a horse and a donkey; especially: the offspring of a male donkey and a mare.
First, let’s clarify what a mule is. A mule is the offspring of a male donkey (a jack) and a female horse (a mare). A horse has 64 chromosomes, and a donkey has 62. The mule ends up with 63. Mules can be either male or female, but, because of the odd number of chromosomes, they can’t reproduce. However, a male mule should be gelded in order to make him a safe and sociable animal.