It’s been more than two years since “Clybourne Park” was first staged in New York, Off Broadway at Playwrights Horizons. In the interim, a lot has happened both to this play — which opened Thursday night on Broadway in a superlative production at the Walter Kerr Theater — and this country. Continue reading the main story. Advertisement. And by the way that house in Clybourne Park (still a segregated neighborhood in the late 1950s) is the very one that the Younger family was set to move into at the end of “A Raisin in the Sun,” Lorraine Hansberry’s watershed drama from 1959.
This detailed literature summary also contains Topics for Discussion on Clybourne Park: A Play by Bruce Norris. Clybourne Park is a play written by Bruce Norris. The first act takes place in 1959. Bev and housekeeper Francine are packing items while Russ eats ice cream. Bev takes a phone call from Karl, a concerned neighbor. Jim, a young minister, walks in and starts talking with Russ. He questions Russ's health and new office. 
By Wade Bradford. The play Clybourne Park by Bruce Norris is set in a modest three-bedroom bungalow in central Chicago. Clybourne Park is a fictional neighborhood, first mentioned in Lorraine Hansberry's A Raisin in the Sun. Act One-Plot Summary: Act One of Clybourne Park takes place in 1959, in the home of Bev and Russ, a middle aged couple who are preparing to move to a new neighborhood.
Winner of the Pulitzer Prize and the 2012 Tony Award for Best Play, Bruce Norris’ satiric comedy deals with race and class in response to Lorraine Hansberry’s A Raisin in the Sun. 
As described by the Washington Post, the play applies a modern twist to the issues of race and housing and aspirations for a better life.. Clybourne Park was awarded the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for Drama and the 2012 Tony Award for Best Play. Grieving parents Bev and Russ are planning to sell their home in the white middle-class Chicago neighborhood of Clybourne Park. They receive a visit from their local clergyman, Jim, as well as their neighbor Karl and his deaf, pregnant wife Betsy.
Bruce Norris’ play “Clybourne Park,” which won the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for drama and last night’s Tony Award for best play, overflows with dirty words. 
The Setting of Clybourne Park (Act Two): During intermission of Bruce Norris' play Clybourne Park, the stage undergoes a significant transformation. The former home of Bev and Russ (from Act One) ages fifty years.
It premiered in February 2010 at Playwrights Horizons in New York. The play received its UK premiere at the Royal Court Theatre in London in a production directed by Dominic Cooke. The play received its Chicago premiere at Steppenwolf Theatre Company in a production directed by Steppenwolf ensemble member Amy Morton. Grieving parents Bev and Russ are planning to sell their home in the white middle-class Chicago neighborhood of Clybourne Park. They receive a visit from their local clergyman, Jim, as well as their neighbor Karl and his deaf, pregnant wife Betsy.