In addition to live, attenuated vaccines, the immunization schedule includes vaccines of every other major type—see the table above for a breakdown of the vaccine types on the recommended childhood schedule. The different vaccine types each require different development techniques. Live, Attenuated Vaccines. Attenuated vaccines can be made in several different ways. Some of the most common methods involve passing the disease-causing virus through a series of cell cultures or animal embryos (typically chick embryos).
Live attenuated vaccines (e.g., chickenpox [varicella] vaccine, measles-mumps-rubella [MMR] vaccine), which use live, weakened viruses, may cause a child to develop a very mild form of the disease. In most cases, the illness is less severe than infection with the actual disease. Immunizations, also called vaccinations or inoculations, protect children against more than a dozen serious diseases that can cause severe illness, lifelong disabilities, or even death.
Vaccines are made with ingredients that make them safe and effective to protect your child from disease. Each vaccine contains a small amount of the disease germ (virus or bacteria) or parts of the germ. Examples are the measles virus, pertussis (whooping cough) bacteria, and tetanus toxoid. Thimerosal is a mercury-containing preservative that is in the flu vaccine in small amounts to prevent bacterial and fungal growth. If a person received a vaccine contaminated with bacteria or fungi, they could get sick.
A vaccine is a biological preparation that provides active acquired immunity to a particular disease. A vaccine typically contains an agent that resembles a disease-causing micro-organism and is often made from weakened or killed forms of the microbe, its toxins or one of its surface proteins. The World Health Organization (WHO) reports that licensed vaccines are currently available to prevent or contribute to the prevention and control of twenty-five infections. The terms vaccine and vaccination are derived from Variolae vaccinae (smallpox of the cow), the term devised by Edward Jenner to denote cowpox.
Human papillomavirus (HPV). Live, attenuated vaccines currently recommended as part of the U.S. Childhood Immunization Schedule include those against measles, mumps, and rubella (via the combined MMR vaccine), varicella (chickenpox), and influenza (in the nasal spray version of the seasonal flu vaccine). Live, Attenuated Vaccines. Attenuated vaccines can be made in several different ways. Some of the most common methods involve passing the disease-causing virus through a series of cell cultures or animal embryos (typically chick embryos).
1 Hepatitis A (hep A) - The hep A virus can cause liver failure. 2  Children should get 2 doses of the vaccine starting at age 1. 3  Varicella (chickenpox) - Kids need two doses, spaced out about 4-5 years. 4  Influenza (flu) - The CDC recommends that everyone age 6 months of age and older get this vaccine every year. You treat bumps and bruises, and soothe him when he's sick. Vaccines are another important way to protect your child's health. Learn why doctors recommend certain vaccines and when your child should get them. Below are answers to some common questions you might have.
Conjugate vaccines are somewhat similar to recombinant vaccines: they’re made using a combination of two different components. Conjugate vaccines, however, are made using pieces from the coats of bacteria. These coats are chemically linked to a carrier protein, and the combination is used as a vaccine. Live, Attenuated Vaccines. Attenuated vaccines can be made in several different ways. Some of the most common methods involve passing the disease-causing virus through a series of cell cultures or animal embryos (typically chick embryos).
The MMR (measles, mumps and rubella) vaccine and the influenza (flu) vaccines contain egg protein. Egg protein is present in these vaccines because the viruses used to make them are grown in eggs (flu vaccine) or in cells taken from eggs (MMR vaccine). Thimerosal is a mercury-containing preservative that is in the flu vaccine in small amounts to prevent bacterial and fungal growth. If a person received a vaccine contaminated with bacteria or fungi, they could get sick.
The nasal-spray vaccine contains live but weakened viruses. You cannot get the flu from the flu shot or the nasal-spray vaccine. The flu vaccine is given at the beginning of the flu season, usually in October or November. The flu shot is safe for children 6 months of age and older. The nasal spray vaccine is safe for children 2 years of age and older. Because flu viruses change from year to year, it is very important for your child to get the vaccine each year so that he or she will be protected. In some special situations, children shouldn't be vaccinated. For example, some vaccines shouldn't be given to children who have certain types of cancer or certain diseases, or who are taking drugs that lower the body's ability to resist infection.