The tin whistle is a good starting instrument to learn the uilleann pipes, which has similar finger technique, range of notes and repertoire. The tin whistle is the most popular instrument in Irish traditional music today. Due to its affordability the tin whistle was a popular household instrument, as ubiquitous as the harmonica. In the second half of the 19th century, some flute manufacturers such as Barnett Samuel and Joseph Wallis also sold whistles. These had a cylindrical brass tube.
The tin whistle, also called the penny whistle, English flageolet, Scottish penny whistle, tin flageolet, Irish whistle, feadog feadóg (stain stáin or) simply Feadog Feadóg And clarke london flageolet, is-a simple six. holed woodwind instrument Due to its affordability the tin whistle was a popular household instrument, as ubiquitous as the harmonica. In the second half of the 19th century, some flute manufacturers such as Barnett Samuel and Joseph Wallis also sold whistles. These had a cylindrical brass tube.
The whistle is one of man's oldest musical instruments; Archeological evidence shows that the Neanderthals carved holes in the femur bones of a cave bear to create a flute like instrument approximately 43,000 years ago. All our whistles are supported by our price & satisfaction guarantees and free standard shipping applies to all orders except heavy items.
Purchase a tin whistle at a local music store or online. Whistles are available in all the major keys. The most common, a D whistle, can play in the keys of D and G major. The second most common, a C whistle, can play in the keys of C and F major. The lowest note of a penny whistle, with all the fingers covered, is called the tonic-on a D whistle the tonic is D. 1  The tone of the tin whistle is largely determined by its manufacturing. 2  Low whistles, or concert whistles, are longer and wider and produce tones an octave (or in rare cases two octaves) lower.
1 The tone of the tin whistle is largely determined by its manufacturing. 2  Clarke style rolled metal whistles tend to have a smooth soft sound, while Generation style cylindrical instruments tend to have louder or shrill whistle sounds. The lowest note of a penny whistle, with all the fingers covered, is called the tonic-on a D whistle the tonic is D. 1  The tone of the tin whistle is largely determined by its manufacturing. 2  Low whistles, or concert whistles, are longer and wider and produce tones an octave (or in rare cases two octaves) lower.
Getty Images / Stockbyte. Definition: A tin whistle is a simple instrument in the woodwind family. With just six finger holes, the tin whistle has a two-octave range and is tuned diatonically (i.e. containing all seven notes -- and no others -- of a major or minor scale). The tin whistle is a very common instrument in traditional Irish music and related genres of Celtic music. Despite its relative simplicity as an instrument, the tin whistle, when played by a skilled player, can be a dynamic and exciting instrument with a surprising level of nuance. 
Comments about Waltons Irish Tin Whistle : As good as any penny whistle in the price range, and there are several brands. This is a good first instrument for anyone, relatively easy to play. It's also an easy instrument to learn for someone who wants to add another voice to their arsenal of instruments. Comments about Waltons Irish Tin Whistle : This is my first purchase of a tin whistle but it's everything I had hoped for. The tone and tuning were critical points of interest to me and I am not disappointed. Clean, clear tones and each note is perfectly in tune. This will sound great in a Crltic piece I just arranged.
It is a fipple flute, putting it in the same category as the recorder, Native American flute, and other woodwind instruments that meet such criteria. A tin whistle player is called a tin whistler or simply a whistler. The tin whistle is closely associated with Celtic music. Due to its affordability the tin whistle was a popular household instrument, as ubiquitous as the harmonica. In the second half of the 19th century, some flute manufacturers such as Barnett Samuel and Joseph Wallis also sold whistles. These had a cylindrical brass tube.
The tin whistle, also known as the penny whistle, Irish whistle, or just plain old whistle, is an instrument with a plastic or wooden fipple, or mouthpiece, and a metal body tube. They are fairly easy to play and the fingerings are similar to that of the saxophone, clarinet, and flute. The lowest note of a penny whistle, with all the fingers covered, is called the tonic-on a D whistle the tonic is D. 1  The tone of the tin whistle is largely determined by its manufacturing. 2  Low whistles, or concert whistles, are longer and wider and produce tones an octave (or in rare cases two octaves) lower.