You should use an ellipsis if the words you quote, as they appear in your essay, constitute a complete sentence, but, in the original, the words you quote are only part of a longer sentence. We can use a simple example to demonstrate the idea. In general, commas and periods do not convey any meaning, so they usually can be removed from a quotation. . Exclamation points and questions marks, though, convey meaning, so they should not be removed from quotations.
Punctuation has a very important function for the written language as it helps to build up a clear structure for a better clarification and comprehension of the text. While we can influence our speech by voice inflections and pauses, we need other signs for a better understanding of our reading and writing. This can be achieved by using punctuation marks. The application of punctuation marks is sometimes very tricky as each one can be used in many different ways. There are also some punctuation marks which can easily be mistaken as the even look identical.
Without indicating the change, you can and should remove the final punctuation from a quotation if the final punctuation does not make sense within your sentence and if the punctuation conveys no meaning in the original. In general, commas and periods do not convey any meaning, so they usually can be removed from a quotation. . Exclamation points and questions marks, though, convey meaning, so they should not be removed from quotations.
Quoted material is usually set off from the rest of a sentence with commas. However, if the quotation should end with an exclamation mark or a question mark, this punctuation will be used in place of the expected comma. Ellipses are a series of dots used to indicate the omission of words or paragraphs from quoted material. They can also be used to indicate hesitant speech. 1. Word Omission: When words are omitted from the beginning of a quotation, three periods are used as the ellipses.
This rule can also help in web design to keep the two hyphens from separating at the end of a line. Otherwise, there's no space between a dash and the words on either side. Actually, there are two kinds of dashes. The em dash, supposedly the width of the letter m, is the regular punctuation mark. The en dash, supposedly the width of the letter n, is for ranges of numbers. -. A hyphen isn't used between parts of sentences like most punctuation. Use a hyphen to break up the syllables of a word when you want the first part of a long word at the end of one line and the last part of the word at the beginning of the next line. Use a hyphen to combine two words into one modifier before a noun.
When a word, a phrase, or a sentence (or more) is deleted after a complete sentence within a direct quotation, the ellipsis points are inserted after the sentence’s ending punctuation. Two units of punctuation appear; one is the sentence’s ending punctuation and the other is the ellipsis points. Insert one space between each of the three ellipsis points. Use ellipsis points at the beginning or end of a direct quotation (except in rare instances). Insert a space before and after the ellipsis points. Use ellipses to make a quote say something other than what the author originally intended.
Punctuation marks are marks like period, ellipses, semi-comma, colon, etc. used in English language to clarify the meaning of the sentences. 14 punctuation marks in English … grammar:1. Period (.)2. Ellipses (...)3. Comma (,)4. Semicolon (;)5. Apostrophe (')6. 
The apostrophe is used to indicate the possessive case of nouns and indefinite pronouns; to mark character omissions in contracted words and dates; and to form the plurals of symbols, abbreviations, and some dates and numbers. 1. Possessives: Use an 's to indicate possession for a singular noun. Sarah's coat is black. Ellipses are a series of dots used to indicate the omission of words or paragraphs from quoted material. They can also be used to indicate hesitant speech. 1. Word Omission: When words are omitted from the beginning of a quotation, three periods are used as the ellipses.
Ellipsis points are used to represent an omission from a direct quotation when it is cited by another writer. This series of three dots—with a space before, after, and between them (. . .)—is inserted where a word, phrase, sentence (or more) is left out. Insert one space between each of the three ellipsis points. Use ellipsis points at the beginning or end of a direct quotation (except in rare instances). Insert a space before and after the ellipsis points. Use ellipses to make a quote say something other than what the author originally intended.
Quotation marks are also called inverted commas, speech marks, or quotes. Quotation marks can be used in two styles; single (‘ ’ or ') or double (“ ” or ), and can also appear in two different typefaces; either as so called dumb or straight quotes (' or ) or as smart quotes (‘ ’ or “ ”). The application of punctuation marks is sometimes very tricky as each one can be used in many different ways. There are also some punctuation marks which can easily be mistaken as the even look identical.