Shares & Saves. Save. Ethnocentrism burdens you with the belief that your culture, race and way of life is superior to those of others. It prevents understanding and incites conflict when actions and words are seen as threats rather than different ways of experiencing life. 
Ethnocentrism is a commonly used word in circles where ethnicity, inter-ethnic relations, and similar social issues are of concern. The usual definition of the term is thinking one's own group's ways are superior to others or judging other groups as inferior to one's own. 
Ethnocentrism is judging another culture solely by the values and standards of one's own culture. Ethnocentric individuals judge other groups relative to their own ethnic group or culture, especially with concern for language, behavior, customs, and religion. 
Ethnocentrism is described as the belief in the superiority of one's own race. It is a natural attitude inherent in all cultures. There is nothing wrong in being proud of your culture and what your people achieve. Ethnocentrism causes us to judge others by our own values. We expect others to act as we would, and the expect us to behave as they would. This does not always work out so well and can usually result in misunderstandings.
l ast week we have studied about ethnocentrism in our class. Now, i know what is the mean of ethnocentrism. Ethnocentrism is a belief that own culture is superior to all other and all other culture is standard. They think that their group are the best, beautiful, right, and the most important. meanwhile other group or other behaviour is bad. 
≈ Leave a comment. Ethnocentrism is the tendency to judge other groups according to the standards, behaviors, and customs of one’s own group. Given the automatic influence of one’s own culture, when people compare their culture to others, they often conclude that their own group is superior. 
Avoiding ethnocentrism is not an easy task, we must have an open mind, and as proud as we might be of our culture, we must always remember that we are all pieces of the puzzle, we are all, in some way or the other, parts of the bigger piece. Ethnocentrism causes us to judge others by our own values. We expect others to act as we would, and the expect us to behave as they would. This does not always work out so well and can usually result in misunderstandings.
The opposite of ethnocentrism is xenocentrism which means preferring ideas and things from other cultures over ideas and things from your own culture. At the heart of xenocentrism is an assumption that other cultures are superior to your own. Xenocentrism The opposite of ethnocentrism is xenocentrism which means preferring ideas and things from other cultures over ideas and things from your own culture. At the heart of xenocentrism is an assumption that other cultures are superior to your own. Links to other Internet information on ethnocentrism.
Avoiding Ethnocentrism. Ethnocentrism, as described at Dictionary.com, is . The belief in the inherent superiority of one's own ethnic group or culture.. For years, colleges and universities have been preparing students to avoid ethnocentrism and become more aware and open about other cultures.
Introduction. Ethnocentrism is the belief that one’s own way of life or culture is superior to others. “Ethnocentrism is the view that ‘our’ ways of doing things are ordinary and better and that other approaches are in some way inferior. One’s own group or society seems normal, while another might seem peculiar. 