Lawn seating at Gorge Amphitheatre. Gorge Amphitheatre does feature lawn seating.This is far and away the most polarizing seating option in the venue. Some fans will rave about seeing live music outside and feeling the grass underneath you. Others will complain that the grass is wet or the lawn is too steep (or not steep enough). Most sections have a different number of rows. If you have tickets, find your seats to see the seating chart for that section with rows. If you don't have tickets yet, select your desired event to see tickets directly on the seat map.
The Gorge Amphitheatre is a 27,500-seat outdoor concert venue near the Columbia River in George, Washington managed by Live Nation. According to The Wall Street Journal, the Gorge is considered one of the most scenic concert locations in the world. It is a nine-time winner of Pollstar Magazine's award for 'Best Outdoor Music Venue' and was voted as one of the 'Best Outdoor Concert Venues in America' by ConcertBoom.
Venue Details. From Seattle: Take I-90 east, take exit 143 Gorge Amphitheatre. Follow amphitheatre signs approximately 6 miles. Approximate driving time from Seattle to the Gorge is 3 hours. From Spokane, WA: Take I-90 west, take exit 149 Gorge Amphitheatre. Follow amphitheatre signs approximately 7 miles. Follow I-90 east to exit 143 Gorge Amphitheatre. Follow amphitheatre signs approximately 6 miles. Approximate driving time from Vancouver, BC to the Gorge is 5 hours.
From Seattle: Take I-90 east, take exit 143 Gorge Amphitheatre. Follow amphitheatre signs approximately 6 miles. Approximate driving time from Seattle to the Gorge is 3 hours. Follow I-90 east to exit 143 Gorge Amphitheatre. Follow amphitheatre signs approximately 6 miles. Approximate driving time from Vancouver, BC to the Gorge is 5 hours.
Located in George, Washington, right above the Columbia River Gorge and not far from Vancouver and Portland Oregon, this is often considered to be one of the most scenic places in the country to attend a concert. Gorge Amphitheatre seating is simple: Bring a blanket and stake out your space. Lawn seating allows you and your friends to set up your own space to admire the views and listen to the concert. If you’re planning a visit to Washington, check out who is performing at the Gorge—it might just be one of your favorite bands. Unlike many venues, it doesn’t matter at the Gorge whether you were the first or the last person to buy your ticket because of the seating system. You can buy your ticket the day before, but as long as you arrive early, you can set up your blanket on the best parts of the lawn.
When attending a concert at the Gorge, you can bring food in for a picnic on the lawn. However, you can’t bring alcoholic beverages inside with you. Drinks are available for purchase once you’re inside the venue. Many visitors to the Gorge take advantage of local camping instead of driving after a concert. Unlike many venues, it doesn’t matter at the Gorge whether you were the first or the last person to buy your ticket because of the seating system. You can buy your ticket the day before, but as long as you arrive early, you can set up your blanket on the best parts of the lawn.
Gorge Amphitheater seating is the same for these types of events, meaning bring your own blanket or folding chairs and spread out on the expansive lawn. This is such a fantastic concert venue that many Seattle locals make the three-hour drive to the Gorge Amphitheatre. Unlike many venues, it doesn’t matter at the Gorge whether you were the first or the last person to buy your ticket because of the seating system. You can buy your ticket the day before, but as long as you arrive early, you can set up your blanket on the best parts of the lawn.
“It can get a bit breezy and cold on the lawn/hill when the winds kick-up off the Columbia River .” in 17 reviews. “I've seen Dave Matthews Band at the Gorge at least 19 times, that I can count.” in 9 reviews. 
Seating. There are two types of seating at The Gorge—lawn/general admission and reserved. While reserved seating might be the way to go at most venues, arguably at The Gorge, general admission has its perks. Perhaps the most amazing aspect of this amphitheatre is the view, which is something that the reserved seating area closer to stage loses its edge on. Gorge Amphitheatre tickets are processed through Live Nation. Concerts at The Gorge. The Gorge gets a fair lineup of shows each season. Some events, such as the Sasquatch! Music Festival, take place regularly. Sasquatch! is held annually over Memorial Day Weekend.