A Pancoast tumour otherwise known as superior sulcus tumour refers to a relatively uncommon situation where a primary bronchogenic carcinoma arises in the lung apex and invades the surrounding soft tissues. 
Background. Pancoast syndrome (Pancoast’s syndrome) is characterized by a malignant neoplasm of the superior sulcus of the lung (lung cancer) with destructive lesions of the thoracic inlet and involvement of the brachial plexus and cervical sympathetic nerves (stellate ganglion). This is accompanied by the following: Most Pancoast tumors are squamous cell carcinomas (SCCs) or adenocarcinomas; only 3-5% are small cell carcinomas. Squamous cell carcinoma occurs more frequently, although large cell and undifferentiated types are also common.
Pancoast syndrome. Pancoast syndrome, which is caused by a tumor in the apex of the lungs, involves the first and second ribs, vertebral column, spinal cord, and brachial plexus. It consists of pain, weakness, or numbness that starts from the shoulder and radiates to the arm and hand. Pancoast tumor, first described in 1924 by American radiologist Henry Pancoast, is a benign or malignant tumor which arises in the upper lung (apex) commonly situated in the right upper corner and which often affects the apical chest wall structures.
Although a Pancoast tumour is a lung tumour, it rarely causes symptoms that are typically related to the lungs (e.g. cough, chest pain). The initial symptom is pain in the shoulder, inner part of the scapula (large, triangular, flattened bone that lies over the ribs on the back), or both. Pancoast tumour. Pancoast tumours are a form of lung cancer with the tumour forming at the top of the lung. Around 1 in 20 cases of lung cancer are Pancoast tumours.
A Pancoast tumor, also called a pulmonary sulcus tumor or superior sulcus tumor, is a tumor of the pulmonary apex. The growing tumor can cause compression of a brachiocephalic vein, subclavian artery, phrenic nerve, recurrent laryngeal nerve, vagus nerve, or, characteristically, compression of a sympathetic ganglion resulting in a range of symptoms known as Horner's syndrome.
Although a Pancoast tumor is a lung tumor, it rarely causes symptoms that are typically related to the lungs (like cough or chest pain). The initial symptom is usually pain in the shoulder, the inner part of the shoulder blades, or both. Pancoast Tumor Exams and Tests. Exams and tests that may be used to diagnose a Pancoast tumor include: 1  Chest X-ray. 2  In the early stages, Pancoast tumors are difficult to detect on chest X-rays because the top of the lung is located in an area of the body that is difficult to visualize clearly on an X-ray.
In this article. Pancoast tumors form at the very top of either lung. Pancoast tumors are a subset of non-small cell lung cancers that invade the top of the chest. Because of their location, they invade adjoining tissue. Pancoast tumors form an abnormal patch of tissue over the lung apex and principally involve the chest wall structures rather than the underlying lung tissue. Pancoast Tumor Exams and Tests. Exams and tests that may be used to diagnose a Pancoast tumor include: 1  Chest X-ray. 2  In the early stages, Pancoast tumors are difficult to detect on chest X-rays because the top of the lung is located in an area of the body that is difficult to visualize clearly on an X-ray.
Although a Pancoast tumor is a lung tumor, it rarely causes symptoms that are typically related to the lungs (eg, cough, chest pain).The initial symptom is pain in the shoulder, inner part of the scapula (large, triangular, flattened bone that lies over the ribs on the back), or both. In 1932, Pancoast defined a superior pulmonary sulcus tumor as a mass growing at the thoracic inlet that produces a constant and characteristic clinical presentation of pain in an eighth cervical or first and second thoracic trunk distribution.
Symptoms [edit]. Aside from cancer general symptoms such as malaise, fever, weight loss and fatigue, Pancoast tumour can include a complete Horner's syndrome in severe cases: miosis (constriction of the pupils), anhidrosis (lack of sweating), ptosis (drooping of the eyelid) and enophthalmos (sunken eyeball). The growing tumor can cause compression of a brachiocephalic vein, subclavian artery, phrenic nerve, recurrent laryngeal nerve, vagus nerve, or, characteristically, compression of a sympathetic ganglion resulting in a range of symptoms known as Horner's syndrome.
Pancoast Tumor ». In 1932, Pancoast defined a superior pulmonary sulcus tumor as a mass growing at the thoracic inlet that produces a constant and characteristic clinical presentation of pain in an eighth cervical or first and second thoracic trunk distribution.