1 Heliotrope rash, which has a purple hue and appears on the eyelids; this rash also swelling also occurs with this rash. 2  Holster sign, rash along the outer, upper thighs. 3  Gottron’s Papules, which are bumps over the joints. 4  Midfacial erythema, redness of the skin. 5  Periungual erythema, redness around the fingernails. 1 Scalp rash--A common skin finding in DM that can be difficult to see and may look like flaking of the scalp. 2  Heliotrope rash, which has a purple hue and appears on the eyelids; this rash also swelling also occurs with this rash.
1 Complications of skin symptoms. 2  Cases of heliotrope rash pose elevated risk to infections, especially of the digestive and respiratory tracts. 3  Deposition of calcium in the skin, muscles and connective tissues may also form with the advancement of the disorder. Some of the complications associated with heliotrope rash are discussed below: 1  Complications of muscle weakness: 2  When the esophagus experiences muscle weakness then patients may elicit dysphagia or swallowing difficulties. 3  This in turn can result in loss of weight and malnutrition.
1 Skin changes. 2  A violet-colored or dusky red rash develops, most commonly on your face and eyelids and on areas around your nails, knuckles, elbows, knees, chest and back. 3  The rash, which can be patchy with bluish-purple discolorations, is often the first sign of dermatomyositis. 4  Muscle weakness. 1 The rash, which can be patchy with bluish-purple discolorations, is often the first sign of dermatomyositis. 2  Muscle weakness. 3  Progressive muscle weakness involves the muscles closest to the trunk, such as those in your hips, thighs, shoulders, upper arms and neck.
(Redirected from Heliotrope rash). Dermatomyositis (DM) is a connective-tissue disease related to polymyositis (PM) that is characterized by inflammation of the muscles and the skin. Heliotrope is often associated with periorbital edema and telangiectasias of the upper eyelids. In the resolution stage, atrophy or dyspigmentation (hypo-or hyperpigmentation) may be apparent. Heliotrope. Subtle erythema and minimal edema involving both upper eyelids, with extension to the low
Symptoms of heliotrope rash. Some of the signs and symptoms of heliotrope rash are as follows: 1  Patients of heliotrope rash may experience a dusky reddish or violet colored skin anomaly, often on the eyelids and the face, as well as around the knuckles, nails, knees, elbows, back and chest region. Some of the complications associated with heliotrope rash are discussed below: 1  Complications of muscle weakness: 2  When the esophagus experiences muscle weakness then patients may elicit dysphagia or swallowing difficulties. 3  This in turn can result in loss of weight and malnutrition.
The diagnosis of dermatomyositis is usually recognized by the typical heliotrope rash. Patients with a characteristic skin eruption should have a skin biopsy performed to confirm diagnosis. Additional tests can be ordered to help confirm the diagnosis or to determine the extent of the disease. The eyelids may get the typical purple rash known as the heliotrope rash. Early clinicians thought that this violaceous rash around the eyes reminded them of the color of a heliotrope flower, and thus referred to this as the ‘heliotrope sign’.
1 The disease can cause breathlessness and a dry cough. 2  Heliotrope rash can also result in inflammation of the cardiac muscles or myocarditis, and other cardiovascular conditions. 3  A small percentage of the patients may also experience cardiac arrhythmias and congestive failure of the heart. Some of the complications associated with heliotrope rash are discussed below: 1  Complications of muscle weakness: 2  When the esophagus experiences muscle weakness then patients may elicit dysphagia or swallowing difficulties. 3  This in turn can result in loss of weight and malnutrition.
Also referred to as heliotrope rash, dermatomyositis is an uncommon inflammatory disorder wherein patients suffer from distinctive rashes on skin as well as muscular weakness. In the medical world, it is classified as a chronic inflammatory myopathy and regarded as 1 of three such conditions. Sponsored link. 