The Spotted Turtle is a small black turtle with yellow spots. The upper shell (carapace) is smooth. The lower shell (plastron) is yellow to yellow-orange with large black blotches on each scute (scale). In older individuals, the entire plastron may be black.
Spotted turtles are found in two regions, one being along the whole Atlantic coastal plain which includes, northern Florida, Georgia, South Carolina, North Carolina, Virginia, Maryland, Delaware, New Jersey, New York, Massachusetts, Connecticut, Rhode Island, southern New Hampshire, southern Vermont and Southern Maine.
The lower shell or plastron is yellow and black in color. Male spotted turtles have dark pigment on the hard portions of both jaws; females have yellowish coloration there. Spotted turtles measure 3.5-5.0 inches (9-12.7 cm) in length.
The spotted turtle (Clemmys guttata), the only extant species of Clemmys, is a small, semi-aquatic turtle that reaches a carapace length of 8–12 cm (3.1–4.7 in) upon adulthood.
Species of spotted turtle: C.guttata. The spotted turtles are among the only ones that are left of the genus named Clemmys of the turtle family. It is more popularly found in various regions of USA. They are almost harmless in nature and can become very friendly pets.
The spotted turtle is a small species that rarely exceeds five inches in length. Its smooth carapace (shell) is slate gray or black with a variable number of bright yellow spots, which can disappear in older turtles. The plastron (underside of shell) is yellow or orange with wide black smudges.
The spotted turtle is a small semi-aquatic species known for the bright yellow spots that dot its dark shell. The species is listed as threatened in several states and endangered on the IUCN (International Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources) Red List of Threatened Species.
Description: The Spotted turtle is one of the smallest full sized turtles found with in the United States. It ranges in size from 4 inches to approximately 5 1/4 inches. A Spotted turtle's shell is solid black covered with yellow spots. The number of spots varies depending on the turtle's age.
The Spotted turtle is one of the smallest full sized turtles found with in the United States. It ranges in size from 4 inches to approximately 5 1/4 inches.