Plowing the Roots Field with Tractor. The Latin root word tract means “drag” or “pull.”. A tract or, for instance, “drags” or “pulls” heavy equipment, that is, it is a “dragger” of plows, combines, hay balers and the like. I hope that you feel you’ve gained some tract ion by learning that tract means “drag” or “pull.” Now you will be able to easily ex tract meaning from English vocabulary words containing the root word tract 1  ! tractor: machine which ‘drags’.
Am-is not a prefix in its own right. It may form a part of another prefix (such as amphi-in 'amphitheatre' or ambi-in 'ambivalent', both meaning 'both'). It may include … the prefix plus the beginning of the root, as in 'amorphous' (a-meaning 'without' and morphe meaning 'form'). OR A prefix can also be a letter or group of letters added to the beginning of a word to make a new word. A suffix is much the same, but is added … on to the end of a word instead. 25 people found this useful. Valentin Popov.
Below you will see a chart of English language word roots that are common prefixes and suffixes to base words. (This list is similar to that which appeared previously on this site.). This list is a small portion of our 2,000 word root database which you can search using our root search engine. 
We learned last week that the English prefix con-can mean ‘with’ or ‘thoroughly.’ To begin with, the prefix “con-” frequently means “with” or “together.” For instance, when you con nect two things, you bring them “together” or link them “with” each other. The con text of a particular word in a given sentence is those words “with” which it is woven, or “with” which it occurs. A con jugal relationship pertains to two spouses “with” whom each are joined. And a con glomeration is a large mass of objects which are brought “together.”.
The Latin root word tract means “drag” or “pull.” This root word gives rise to many English vocabulary words, including at tract ion, sub tract, and con tract. Perhaps the easiest way to remember this root word is through the English word tract or, for a tract or’s main function is to “drag” or “pull” heavy equipment. I hope that you feel you’ve gained some tract ion by learning that tract means “drag” or “pull.” Now you will be able to easily ex tract meaning from English vocabulary words containing the root word tract 1  ! tractor: machine which ‘drags’.
No the prefix a does not meant against....the prefix for against or opposing to is contra   The prefix a just me … ans, without, lacking or not.   This is different because of such:   Amoral would mean to have the exact opposite morals ie thinking doing good things is bad and bad things good. OR A prefix can also be a letter or group of letters added to the beginning of a word to make a new word. A suffix is much the same, but is added … on to the end of a word instead. 25 people found this useful. Valentin Popov.
uro-. [yoo͡r′ō-]. prefix meaning urine, the urinary tract, or urination: urocrisia, uromancy, uropterin. 
A prefix is a dialing code. OR A prefix can also be a letter or group of letters added to the beginning of a word to make a new word. A suffix is much the same, but is added … on to the end of a word instead. 25 people found this useful. Valentin Popov.
For example, the root-tract- , meaning “to pull,” can combine with a number of prefixes, including de-and re- . Detract means literally “to pull away” (de- , “away, off”) and retract means literally “to pull back” (re- , “again, back”). The following table gives a list of Latin prefixes and their basic meanings. These languages are considered “sisters,” as they all descended from Latin, their “mother” language. In 1066 England was conquered by William, duke of Normandy, which is in northern France. For several hundred years after the Norman invasion, French was the language of court and polite society in England.
Latin Roots, Prefixes, and Suffixes. Latin was the language spoken by the ancient Romans. As the Romans conquered most of Europe, the Latin language spread throughout the region. Over time, the Latin spoken in different areas developed into separate languages, including Italian, French, Spanish, and Portuguese. These languages are considered “sisters,” as they all descended from Latin, their “mother” language. In 1066 England was conquered by William, duke of Normandy, which is in northern France. For several hundred years after the Norman invasion, French was the language of court and polite society in England.