Pleural disease affects the pleural lining of the lungs. When these thin membranes become scarred and thickened, it is medically termed as pleural thickening. It can be limited to one location (focal scarring) or become widespread (diffuse scarring). Pleural plaque is the other name for focal scarring. Pleural thickening can cause mild to severe symptoms depending on the health of the individual. Pleural thickening causes fluid retention between the lungs and the lung linings. Chronic irritation is caused when asbestos particles lodge in the lungs. This causes difficulty in breathing.
Pleural thickening definition. Pleural thickening is a lung disease that describes a scarring, calcification, and/or thickening of the pleura (the lining surrounding the lungs) often as a consequence of the inhalation of asbestos into the lungs. If the asbestos fibres work their way into the pleura, they can cause the pleural thickening condition. Pleural thickening tends to cause sufferers a tightness of the chest or breathlessness which is attributed to the reduced lung function that the thickening causes.
This study is looking at scans, blood tests and lung fluid tests to improve diagnosis for people with fluid in the lung lining (pleural effusion), or thickening of the lung lining. Having fluid in the lining of your lung is a common condition, and could be a symptom of one of at least 50 possible causes. These include having blood clots on the lung, heart failure, TB or cancer. For many people with fluid in the lung lining, or with thickening of this lining, the process of working out what is wrong is slow. Unfortunately, sometimes doctors are not able to find the cause at all. Doctors want to improve the way they diagnose the cause of fluid or thickening in the lung lining
1 Have fluid in the lining of your lung (pleural effusion) or thickening of the lining of the lung, and your doctor does not yet know the cause of this. 2  Are either waiting to have a CT scan, or for the doctor to remove this fluid. These include having blood clots on the lung, heart failure, TB or cancer. For many people with fluid in the lung lining, or with thickening of this lining, the process of working out what is wrong is slow. Unfortunately, sometimes doctors are not able to find the cause at all. Doctors want to improve the way they diagnose the cause of fluid or thickening in the lung lining
Pleural thickening is the term used to describe the appearance of diffuse (widespread) scarring along the lining (pleura) of the lungs. When this pleural scarring (pleural fibrosis) is limited to one location (focal scarring) it is called pleural plaque. Pleural thickening can occur as a result of any inflammation occurring in the lungs. In addition to asbestos exposure, this may stem from any of the following: 1  Bacterial pneumonia. 2  Pleural effusion (excessive fluid in the pleural space). 3  Infection. 4  Tuberculosis. 5  Tumors (both benign and malignant). 6  Rheumatoid lung disease.
Pleural thickening can cause shortness of breath and adversely affect the lungs' ability to function properly. It is not malignant and is not necessarily a sign of asbestos lung disease; in this sense, pleural thickening is not as serious as asbestosis or malignant mesothelioma. Pleural thickening can occur as a result of any inflammation occurring in the lungs. In addition to asbestos exposure, this may stem from any of the following: 1  Bacterial pneumonia. 2  Pleural effusion (excessive fluid in the pleural space). 3  Infection. 4  Tuberculosis. 5  Tumors (both benign and malignant). 6  Rheumatoid lung disease.
Lung tissue thickening (symptom description): For a medical symptom description of 'Lung tissue thickening', the following symptom information may be relevant to the symptoms: Lung symptoms (type of symptom). However, note that other causes of the symptom 'Lung tissue thickening' may be possible. 
These 10 animal facts will amaze you. The lining of the lungs, called the pleura or pleural membranes, consists of thin membranes that cover the lungs and provide protection and support. Some diseases can cause these membranes to thicken, often as a result of inflammation. Thickening of the pleura is a symptom of both asbestosis and mesothelioma, but has other causes not related to asbestos. Tuberculosis, caused by lung infection with Mycobacterium tuberculosis, and sarcoidosis, a chronic inflammatory disease, can also cause pleural thickening.