The mass of condensed water per unit volume of a cloud is called the liquid-water content of the cloud and usually ranges from tenths of a gram to a few grams per cubic meter in water-droplet clouds and from thousandths to tenths of a gram per cubic meter in ice-crystal clouds. At negative temperatures, clouds may be one of the following: water (supercooled) clouds, ice-crystal clouds, or mixed clouds, that is, a mixture of droplets and crystals. The smallness of cloud droplets enables them to remain for a long time in liquid form even at negative temperatures.
clouds are actually a LIQUID because when water vapor is formed, it moves up to the sky.Then while it goes up, condensation happens.condensation is a part of the water cycle.d … uring condensation, the water vapor which is a gas turns back to liquid.so, clouds are actually very small droplets of water.since clouds actually are from water vapor, which is a gas, condensation happens so that clouds will form.condensation means t … hat from gas which is water vapor, turns back to liquid,that forms clouds.so, clouds are also known as liquid... 6 people found this useful. Not as such, no. Antimatter is just matter that is charged backwards from what we think of as normal matter. it can be a solid, liquid, gas or plasma just like normal matter … . the only difference is that antimatter uses positrons and anti-protons instead of electrons and protons to create an atom.
Water is known to exist in three different states; as a solid, liquid or gas. Clouds, snow, and rain are all made of up of some form of water. A cloud is comprised of tiny water droplets and/or ice crystals, a snowflake is an aggregate of many ice crystals, and rain is just liquid water. Water existing as a gas is called water vapor. When referring to the amount of moisture in the air, we are actually referring to the amount of water vapor. If the air is described as moist, that means the air contains large amounts of water vapor.
Report Abuse. Liquid and solid. Clouds are formed from tiny droplets of water or ice. Low fluffy clouds are liquid, the high streak clouds are usually solid ice particles. You can see the droplets often when you walk through fog, which is the same as a cloud, but at ground level. Water as a gas is invisible. Report Abuse. Clouds are a mixture of gas and liquid or gas and solid. The gas is air. The liquid/solid is water. At high altitude, the water in clouds is frozen. Often, raindrops form as ice pellets that melt on their way down.
clouds are actually a LIQUID because when water vapor is formed, it moves up to the sky.Then while it goes up, condensation happens.condensation is a part of the water cycle.during condensation, the water vapor which is a gas turns back to liquid.so, clouds are actually very small droplets of water.since clouds actually are from water vapor, which is a gas, condensation happens so that clouds will form.condensation means t … hat from gas which is water vapor, turns back to liquid,that forms clouds.so, clouds are also known as liquid... 6 people found this useful. Clouds are formed when water droplets contained in the air rise higher into the atmosphere. There they collect, until a cloud is formed. When water evaporates into the air, it hits the dew point temperature and sticks to smoke and dust particle in the air. Next, it condenses to form a cloud
Submit. · just now. Report Abuse. cloud is vibrated water.....it's gas o think..but when a cloud goes to a high level(where it's cold) the opposite of vibration(I don't know the english word for it) happens so the gas turn into water wich is liquid.... P.Y.T. · 9 years ago. Cumulonimbus (thunderstorm clouds) are water vapor in the lower, cumulus type, portion, but ice crystals in the upper portion (the anvil, so called).
The expanding air cools, and as this cooling occurs, the water vapor condenses (changes) from a vapor to a liquid. Many tiny water droplets form and a cloud is born.   Conditions have to be just right for clouds to form. Clouds are formed when water droplets contained in the air rise higher into the atmosphere. There they collect, until a cloud is formed. When water evaporates into the air, it hits the dew point temperature and sticks to smoke and dust particle in the air. Next, it condenses to form a cloud