A paralegal or legal assistant is a trained person, often with certification from state or government agencies, who performs a variety of support jobs for supervising lawyers. They also perform legal research, and may in the defense or prosecution of a person, do much of the research that will help support arguments in the court setting or in legal briefs. Ad. The legal assistant may also perform preliminary interviews of clients, and/or witnesses.
Before diving into a decision of becoming a legal assistant, you make sure that you know the tasks that you must and must not do. For example, a paralegal is not able to give clients legal advice or setting fees and acting as counsel in a courtroom. A legal assistant assists lawyers. A certified legal assistant is one who has completed the voluntary certification program of a professional association. A legal assistant is a legal professional who does many of the same work that lawyers do. However, there are particular tasks that are only reserved for licensed attorneys.
Paralegals and legal assistants may conduct legal research. Paralegals and legal assistants do a variety of tasks to support lawyers, including maintaining and organizing files, conducting legal research, and drafting documents. Paralegals can be a less costly alternative to lawyers and can perform a wide variety of duties, including tasks once done by lawyers. This will cause an increase in demand for paralegals and legal assistants.
A two to four year college degree may be required to become a legal assistant. A legal assistant's research work may help support the arguments of a court case. A legal assistant may be responsible for conducting preliminary interviews of court witnesses. A legal assistant must have strong writing skills. A paralegal may also be a notary public. They also perform legal research, and may in the defense or prosecution of a person, do much of the research that will help support arguments in the court setting or in legal briefs. Ad. The legal assistant may also perform preliminary interviews of clients, and/or
Under the direction of attorneys and paralegals, assistants who work in law offices may prepare legal complaints, motions, summonses and subpoenas. They may also conduct research, review legal publications and verify citations or quotes. 
Most legal assistants would have completed a bachelor's degree and some have two-year associates degrees. A certified legal assistant is one who has completed the voluntary certification program of a professional association. A legal assistant is a legal professional who does many of the same work that lawyers do. However, there are particular tasks that are only reserved for licensed attorneys. If you really want to become a legal assistant, you should gain an entry-level position in a law firm and work your way up. Then get a certificate and obtain employment as an entry-level legal assistant. Actually, a lot of legal assistants start working with an administrative role and eventually become a paralegal
There’s no need to be. A paralegal and a legal assistant do the exact same types of work. The National Association of Legal Assistants recognizes the terms as identical, and working paralegals and legal assistants do too. In reality, whether you’re called a paralegal or a legal assistant depends mostly on your employer’s preference. According to the American Bar Association, which also recognizes paralegals and legal assistants as one and the same, a legal assistant is a person whose education, training, or experience qualifies them to complete legal work with the supervision and direction of an attorney.
Legal assistants are a lawyer's right hand. They support lawyers at law firms and private practices by creating and maintaining legal files, doing research and writing the first draft of documents. 
There are many things that a legal assistant might do as employed by a lawyer or law firm. They can draft contracts, and most other legal documents, which are then reviewed by lawyers to be certain they conform specifically to the requirements of the client and the law. They also perform legal research, and may in the defense or prosecution of a person, do much of the research that will help support arguments in the court setting or in legal briefs. Ad. The legal assistant may also perform preliminary interviews of clients, and/or witnesses.