LGA babies have birthweights greater than the 90th percentile for their gestational age, meaning that they weigh more than 90 percent of all babies of the same gestational age. The average baby weighs about 7 pounds at birth. About 9 percent of all babies weigh more than 4,000 grams (8 pounds, 13 ounces). Rarely do babies weigh over 10 pounds. Although most LGA babies are born at term (37 to 41 weeks of pregnancy), a few premature babies may be LGA.
Large for gestational age (LGA) is how health professionals describe newborns who weighing more than the usual amount for the number of weeks of pregnancy. Babies are called LGA if they weigh more than 90 percent of all babies of the same gestational age. The average baby weighs about 7 pounds at birth. About 9 percent of all babies weigh more than 8 pounds, 13 ounces (4,000 grams). Rarely do babies weigh over 10 pounds. Although most LGA babies are born at term (37 to 41 weeks of pregnancy), a few premature babies may be LGA.
The gestational age should ,therefore, be at least 10 to 12 weeks if fetal heart tone are heard. Human Chorionic Gonadotropin Pregnancy Test Human chorionic gonadotropin first becomes detectable in the mother's blood and urine between 6 and 14 days after fertilization (3 to 4 weeks gestational age) [11-13]. 
Ultrasound. The baby can be measured as early as 5 or 6 weeks after the mother’s last menstrual period. Measuring the baby using ultrasound is most accurate in early pregnancy. It becomes less accurate later in pregnancy. The best time to estimate gestational age using ultrasound is between the 8th and 18th weeks of pregnancy
Of those 35,190 abortions with gestational age recorded, 543 took place when the unborn baby was more than 20 weeks gestation, able to feel pain and survive outside the womb. Nine were perfomed at more than 28 weeks gestation. All of the abortions with detailed records on gestational age were performed in hospitals; clinic data on gestational age is not available. Of these 27,576 abortions with gestational age reported, 537 took place when the unborn baby was more than 21 weeks gestation, able to feel pain and survive outside of the womb.
Ultrasounds performed after 22 weeks gestation cannot be used to estimate the due date of the baby because the size no longer reflects the age very well. Even average babies can differ by up to 2 to 3 weeks of growth;. These scans are only used to estimate the due date of your baby if this is all you have to go on. A dating scan is an ultrasound examination which is performed in order to establish the gestational age of the pregnancy. Dating scans also reveal other important information such as:
Gestational age, or the age of the baby, is calculated from the first day of the mother’s last menstrual period. Since the exact date of conception is almost never known, the first day of the last menstrual period is used to measure how old the baby is. Use our Pregnancy Calculator to calculate these dates for you. The baby can be measured as early as 5 or 6 weeks after the mother’s last menstrual period. Measuring the baby using ultrasound is most accurate in early pregnancy. It becomes less accurate later in
By 8 weeks gestation the baby and its heart beat can be detected relatively easily with trans-abdominal and trans-vaginal examination. This is presuming that the pregnancy is actually at this stage of development. Sometimes a trans-vaginal examination shows that your pregnancy is less advanced than expected. A dating scan is an ultrasound examination which is performed in order to establish the gestational age of the pregnancy. Dating scans also reveal other important information such as:
Small for gestational age is a term used to describe a baby who is smaller than the usual amount for the number of weeks of pregnancy. SGA babies usually have birthweights below the 10th percentile for babies of the same gestational age. 