Quatr.us Math Geometry Quadrilaterals. Rhombus. A rhombus is a kind of quadrilateral that has two sides that are parallel to each other, and another two sides that are parallel to each other. A rhombus is a special kind of parallelogram, and squares and rectangles are special kinds of rhombus. 
Definition: A rhombus is a parallelogram with four congruent sides. *Rhombus I have all of the properties of the parallelogram PLUS - 4 congruent sides-diagonals bisect angles-diagonals perpendicular Using the definition, the properties of the rhombus can be proven true and become theorems. A rectangle is a parallelogram with four right angles. While the definition states parallelogram, it is sufficient to say: A quadrilateral is a rectangle if and only if it has four right angles., since any quadrilateral with four right angles is a parallelogram. 2.
Another identifying property of a rhombus is that the opposite sides are parallel to each other. Because of these two identifying properties, a rhombus also falls under the category of a parallelogram, a four-sided flat shape whose opposite sides are parallel and of equal length. Yes, all rhombuses are parallelograms, but not all parallelograms are rhombuses. This is because the definition of a parallelogram is more lenient than that of a rhombus, so you can have parallelograms where not all four sides are equal in length
The Rhombus. A rhombus is a four-sided shape where all sides have equal length. Also opposite sides are parallel and opposite angles are equal. Another interesting thing is that the diagonals (dashed lines in second figure) meet in the middle at a right angle. In other words they bisect (cut in half) each other at right angles. A rhombus is sometimes called a rhomb or a diamond.
Definition: A rectangle is a parallelogram with four right angles. *Rectangle I have all of the properties of the parallelogram PLUS - 4 right angles-diagonals congruent Using the definition, the properties of the rectangle can be proven true and become theorems. A rectangle is a parallelogram with four right angles. While the definition states parallelogram, it is sufficient to say: A quadrilateral is a rectangle if and only if it has four right angles., since any quadrilateral with four right angles is a parallelogram. 2.
1 A rectangle is a parallelogram that has four opposite, parallel, congruent sides. 2  The corners of the rectangle form a right angle. 3  The only difference between a rectangle and a square is that the rectangles sides are not all equal. 4  A rhombus has four equal sides. 1 The opposite sides are parallel and all corners of the square form a right angle. 2  A rectangle is a parallelogram that has four opposite, parallel, congruent sides. 3  The corners of the rectangle form a right angle. 4
Rhombus. more ... A 4-sided flat shape with straight sides where all sides have equal length. Also opposite sides are parallel and opposite angles are equal. It is a type of parallelogram. Try moving any point below:
In Euclidean geometry, a rhombus (◊), plural rhombi or rhombuses, is a simple (non-self-intersecting) quadrilateral all of whose four sides have the same length. Another name is equilateral quadrilateral, since equilateral means that all of its sides are equal in length. 
1. A rhombus is a parallelogram with four congruent sides. While the definition states parallelogram, it is sufficient to say: A quadrilateral is a rhombus if and only if it has four congruent sides., since any quadrilateral with four congruent sides is a parallelogram. 2. A rectangle is a parallelogram with four right angles. While the definition states parallelogram, it is sufficient to say: A quadrilateral is a rectangle if and only if it has four right angles., since any quadrilateral with four right angl