Processing primarily occurs in the primary somatosensory area in the parietal lobe of the cerebral cortex: information is sent from the receptors via sensory nerves, through tracts in the spinal cord and finally into the brain. The system works when activity in a sensory neuron is triggered by a specific stimulus such as pain, for instance. This signal then passes to the part of the brain attributed to that area on the body—this allows the stimulus to be felt at the correct location.
The primary somatosensory area in the human cortex (also called primary somatic sensory cortex or SI) is located in the postcentral gyrus of the parietal lobe and makes up four distinct fields or regions known as Brodmann areas 3a, 3b, 1, and 2. The system works when activity in a sensory neuron is triggered by a specific stimulus such as pain, for instance. This signal then passes to the part of the brain attributed to that area on the body—this allows the stimulus to be felt at the correct location.
Lesson Summary. The somatosensory cortex is an important part of the cerebral cortex in the brain that processes sensory information from the body. Neurons from different parts of the body that receive environmental stimuli all send their information to the somatosensory cortex. It is made up of a right and left side, or lobes, which are connected in the middle by the corpus colossum. The inside of the brain has distinct parts called, lobes. Each lobe is devoted to a different function. The outer layer of the brain is called the cerebral cortex.
1 This middle area of the brain can also be used to relay information from the sense of touch, including pain or pressure which is affecting different portions of the body. 2  Motor Cortex-This helps the brain monitor and control movement throughout the body. 3  It is located in the top, middle portion of the brain. It is located in the cerebral hemisphere. 1  Wernicke's Area-This portion of the temporal lobe is formed around the auditory cortex. 2  While scientists have a limited understanding of the function of this area, it is known that it helps the body formulate or understand speech.
Some kinds of damage to the posterior parietal cortex can lead to a syndrome called apraxia. In one form of apraxia, patients can make certain gestures spontaneously but have trouble in making these same gestures if asked to do so. In the somatosensory cortex, it varies with each body part's sensitivity to sensory information. Of course, people can learn to make very fine movements of body parts that do not normally make such movements (for example, the wrist, elbow, and shoulder motions that a violinist must master).
Brodmann Areas. Over a lifetime, the various parts of the brain that control the body's movements can suffer damage from various causes, such as head injuries, strokes, and degenerative brain diseases. One typical example is what happens when one side of the motor cortex is completely destroyed by a stroke. 
The Primary Somatosensory Cortex. Parts of the cerebral cortex in the parietal lobe are involved with processing information related to touch. One such area is the primary somatosensory cortex which is located behind the central sulcus. Neurons in the primary somatosensory are activated when the skin is touched. However, the body is NOT represented in the cortex in proportion to the amount of skin. A map of the human somatosensory cortex was drawn by Dr. Wilder Penfield, a neurosurgeon, in the 1950s.
The sensory nervous system is a part of the nervous system responsible for processing sensory information. A sensory system consists of sensory receptors, neural pathways, and parts of the brain involved in sensory perception. 
The brain is the control center of the whole body. It is made up of a right and left side, or lobes, which are connected in the middle by the corpus colossum. The inside of the brain has distinct parts called, lobes. Each lobe is devoted to a different function. The outer layer of the brain is called the cerebral cortex. Think of it like the skin on a fruit, the skin is the cerebral cortex, and the fruit is the white insides of the apple
In fact, the brain's motor functions have many points in common with its sensory mechanisms, especially those involved in tactile sensations. Thus, the primary motor cortex, in the posterior portion of the frontal lobe, is immediately adjacent to the somatosensory cortex, in the anterior portion of the parietal lobe. In the somatosensory cortex, it varies with each body part's sensitivity to sensory information. Of course, people can learn to make very fine movements of body parts that do not normally make such movements (for example, the wrist, elbow, and shoulder motions that a violinist must master).