Another form of the disorder, known as acquired hemophilia, is not caused by inherited gene mutations. This rare condition is characterized by abnormal bleeding into the skin, muscles, or other soft tissues, usually beginning in adulthood. Hemophilia A and hemophilia B are inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. The genes associated with these conditions are located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes.
This is a file from Wikimedia Commons. Hemophilia is a group of inherited blood disorders in which the blood does not clot properly. Hemophilia is the standard international spelling, also known as haemophilia in the UK, other translations include: hemophilie, hémophilie, hemofilie, hemofili, hemofilia, haemophilie. hämophilie emofilia When coagulation factors are missing or deficient the blood does not clot properly and bleeding continues. Patients with Hemophilia A or B have a genetic defect which results in a deficiency in one of the blood clotting factors.
Haemophilia A (clotting factor VIII deficiency) is the most common form of the disorder, present in about 1 in 5,000–10,000 male births. Haemophilia B (factor IX deficiency) occurs in around 1 in about 20,000–34,000 male births. 
Hemophilia C is also known as plasma thromboplastin antecedent (PTA) deficiency or Rosenthal syndrome. 1-3 Like the other hemophilias, hemophilia C is associated with bleeding, but it differs from hemophilia A and B in several ways. 1-5. While factor VIII and factor IX deficiencies are the best known and most common types of hemophilia, other clotting factor deficiencies also exist. Low levels of factor XI (FXI) cause hemophilia C.
Hemophilia A (also known as factor VIII deficiency or classic hemophilia) is a rare bleeding disorder that causes symptoms such as prolonged bleeding and easy bruising. 1 Hemophilia A is mainly inherited. 1 According to the CDC, hemophilia A occurs in approximately 1 in 6,250 male births; it rarely occurs in females. 
The major types of this condition are hemophilia A (also known as classic hemophilia or factor VIII deficiency) and hemophilia B (also known as Christmas disease or factor IX deficiency). Although the two types have very similar signs and symptoms, they are caused by mutations in different genes. Hemophilia A and hemophilia B are inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. The genes associated with these conditions are located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes.
Hemophilia is a bleeding disorder that slows the blood clotting process. People with this condition experience prolonged bleeding or oozing following an injury, surgery, or having a tooth pulled. Hemophilia A and hemophilia B are inherited in an X-linked recessive pattern. The genes associated with these conditions are located on the X chromosome, which is one of the two sex chromosomes.
Hemophilia A is when a person is deficient in Factor VIII. 80% of people with Hemophilia have this type. Hemophilia B is when a person is deficient in Factor IX. This is also called christmas disease because the first person diagnosed with this was Steven Christmas. Hemophilia is also known as The Royal Disease. It got that name from the family of Queen Victoria, who was a carrier. She passed the gene on to some of her children, who in turn passed it on to their children