Definition. Entity that makes a good through a process involving raw materials, components, or assemblies, usually on a large scale with different operations divided among different workers. Commonly used interchangeably with producer. I wanted to see who the manufacturer was for this new brand of shoe that I really wanted to buy and wear around town.
Definition. The process of converting raw materials, components, or parts into finished goods that meet a customer's expectations or specifications. Manufacturing commonly employs a man-machine setup with division of labor in a large scale production. Nearby Terms. 1  manufactured ga... 2  manufacturer. 3  manufacturer br... 4  manufacturer's 5  ... manufacturers a... 6  manufacturer's 7  ... manufacturer's 8  ... manufacturer's 9  ... manufacturing. 10  manufacturing a... 11  manufacturing a... 12  manufacturing c... 13  manufacturing c... 14  manufacturing d... 15  manufacturing e... 16  manufacturing i... 17
Show more usage examples... When talking with your manufacturer about when the product will be ready do not be to pushy and offend him. 9 people found this helpful. I wanted to see who the manufacturer was for this new brand of shoe that I really wanted to buy and wear around town.
OEM redirects here. For other uses, see OEM (disambiguation) . Original equipment manufacturer (OEM) is a term used when one company makes a part or subsystem that is used in another company's end product. The term is used in several ways each of which is clear in context. Generally, an OEM is the company that makes a part that is marketed by another company typically as a component of the second company's product. For example, if Acme Manufacturing Co. makes power cords that are used on IBM computers, Acme is the OEM.
Save. manufacturer /ˌmaenjəˈfaektʃɚrɚ/ ˌmænjəˈfæktʃɚrɚ. noun plural. manufacturers. /manufacturer/. ˌmaenjəˈfaektʃɚrɚ. ˌmænjəˈfæktʃɚrɚ noun. Plural'manufacturers learner s DEFINITION. [of]. : manufacturer count a company that makes. a product 
The manufacturing sector is closely connected with engineering and industrial design. Examples of major manufacturers in North America include General Motors Corporation, General Electric, Procter & Gamble, General Dynamics, Boeing, Pfizer, and Precision Castparts. Examples in Europe include Volkswagen Group, Siemens, and Michelin. In a collectivist economy, manufacturing is more frequently directed by the state to supply a centrally planned economy. In mixed market economies, manufacturing occurs under some degree of government regulation.
LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. noun. The definition of a manufacturer is a business or individual that produces goods. The company that makes a particular brand of sneakers is an example of the manufacturer of the sneakers. a person or company in the business of manufacturing; specif., a factory owner. noun. Words near manufacturer in the dictionary. 1  manufacture. 2  manufactured. 3  manufactured gas. 4  manufactured home. 5  manufacturer. 6  manufacturer-s-rep. 7  manufacturer-s-representative. 8  manufacturers. 9  manufacturers-rep. 10  manufacturer
Full Definition of MANUFACTURE. transitive verb. 1. : to make into a product suitable for use. 2. a: to make from raw materials by hand or by machinery b: to produce according to an organized plan and with division of labor. 3. 4. intransitive verb. : to engage in manufacture. Word Root of MANUFACTURE. The Latin word facere, meaning “ to make ” or “ to do, ” and its form factus give us the roots fic, fact, and fect. Words from the Latin facere have something to do with making or doing something.
Full Definition of MANUFACTURE. 1. : something made from raw materials by hand or by machinery. 2. a: the process of making wares by hand or by machinery especially when carried on systematically with division of labor b: a productive industry using mechanical power and machinery. 3. Word Root of MANUFACTURE. The Latin word facere, meaning “ to make ” or “ to do, ” and its form factus give us the roots fic, fact, and fect. Words from the Latin facere have something to do with making or doing something.