Peridot meaning is traditional birthstone for August. It will help people who born in this month with cooling energy that rise from the color of green peridot to control their temperament. Peridot stone also associated with grounded emotion and perseverance. Peridot stone meaning is often related to the fact that it is a stone with strong earth and wood energy. This stone gives many positive properties to those who are passionate in knowledge seeking and study. Green Peridot is lucky stone for student
The meaning and symbology of peridot is one of friendliness, purity and simplicity. It is an excellent stone for protection, especially if worn around the neck to protect from negative energy. It is also perfect for the cleansing of negative emotions, such as jealousy or a wounded ego. 
The Meaning and Symbolism of Peridot. The peridot is one of the lesser-known gemstones, despite its illustrious history, increasing rarity and lively beauty. Although a quality peridot is a bright shade of light green tinged with yellow, these gems are often mistaken for darker emeralds. Click here to see a selection of the newest and most popular peridot jewelry. Like nature itself, the peridot is a vital and active gem. Wearing one brings luck and good sense, as well as stronger friendships and a knack for attracting wealth.
The healing meaning of peridot stone closely related to earth and wood, peridot meaning is a great stone to help you bringing back the balance nature of mind and body. Peridot stone meaning is often related to the fact that it is a stone with strong earth and wood energy. This stone gives many positive properties to those who are passionate in knowledge seeking and study. Green Peridot is lucky stone for student
The peridot is one of the lesser-known gemstones, despite its illustrious history, increasing rarity and lively beauty. Click here to see a selection of the newest and most popular peridot jewelry. Like nature itself, the peridot is a vital and active gem. Wearing one brings luck and good sense, as well as stronger friendships and a knack for attracting wealth.
Today, peridot is best known as the birthstone for those born in August. Peridots are therefore associated with Leos and bring peace to the wild hearts of their bearers. Click here to see a selection of the newest and most popular peridot jewelry. Like nature itself, the peridot is a vital and active gem. Wearing one brings luck and good sense, as well as stronger friendships and a knack for attracting wealth.
Peridot Meaning. Peridot gemstones have been found in a large number of locations, including Brazil, Pakistan, Australia, Ireland, Russia, Sri Lanka, USA and Egypt. This is the gem quality stone of Forsterite Olivine, and it is a beautiful transparent, green colored stone. The meaning of the name Peridot comes from the French word 'peritot' which is believed to come from an Arabic word 'faridat', which means precious stone. It has also been called names such as 'poor mans Emerald' and 'Peles tears'.
Where Does It Come From... Peridot gemstones have been found in a large number of locations, including Brazil, Pakistan, Australia, Ireland, Russia, Sri Lanka, USA and Egypt. This is the gem quality stone of Forsterite Olivine, and it is a beautiful transparent, green colored stone. The meaning of the name Peridot comes from the French word 'peritot' which is believed to come from an Arabic word 'faridat', which means precious stone. It has also been called names such as 'poor mans Emerald' and 'Peles tears'.
This page is about the meaning, origin and characteristic of the symbol, emblem, seal, sign, logo or flag: Peridot. Like many gemstones, the peridot possesses a number of different symbolic meanings. When it comes to peridot, analyzing factors such as its origin, cultural significance and history can be a somewhat tricky business, at least compared to some of its gemstone cousins. Even the name of this stone has a murky background. Possible etymological origins of “peridot” include the Arabic “faridat” (meaning ‘gem’), the French “peritot” (meaning ‘unclear’) and the Greek “peridona” (meaning ‘to give richness’). Additionally, the Hebrew word “pitdah” has been cited as a possible originator of “peridot” due to Biblical reference