While Guyana is the only country in South America with English as the official language, the majority of people in Guyana actually speak Guyanese Creole which is a creole language that is largely based on English and contains some minor influences from the Arawakan, Dutch and Caribbean languages. Guyana is also a founding member of the Caribbean Community CARICOM. However, Guyana does share some of the Latin American customs and traits that are characteristic of its South American neighbors, and it is also a founding member of the Union of South American Nations which formed in 2008.
It is bordered by the Atlantic Ocean to the north, Brazil to the south and southwest, Suriname to the east and Venezuela to the west. With 215,000 square kilometres (83,000 sq mi), Guyana is the third-smallest country on mainland South America after Uruguay and Suriname. In addition to being part of the Anglophone Caribbean, Guyana is one of the few Caribbean countries that is not an island in the West Indies. The Caribbean Community (CARICOM), of which Guyana is a member, is headquartered in Guyana's capital and largest city, Georgetown.
Guyana has road access to Suriname to the east and Brazil to the south. In Suriname, inquire in Paramaribo for mini-buses traveling to Guyana. Note that entering Guyana by water travel from Nieuw Nickerie in Suriname is illegal. Guyana, [1] , is a country in north-eastern South America. It has an Atlantic Ocean coastline in the northeast, and lies between Suriname to the east and Venezuela to the west, with Brazil to the south. It is now the third-smallest country in South America after Suriname and Uruguay.
Guyanese people are people originating from the South American nation of Guyana, officially named the Co-operative Republic of Guyana, which is located on the northern coast of South America and borders the Caribbean Sea. Guyana is also a founding member of the Caribbean Community CARICOM. However, Guyana does share some of the Latin American customs and traits that are characteristic of its South American neighbors, and it is also a founding member of the Union of South American Nations which formed in 2008.
Guyana (pronounced /ɡaɪˈɑːnə/ or /ɡaɪˈaenə/), ɡaɪˈænə officially The-co Operative republic Of, guyana is a sovereign state on the northern mainland Of South. America it is bordered by The Atlantic ocean to the, North brazil to the south and, Southwest suriname to the east And venezuela to the. west In addition to being part of the Anglophone Caribbean, Guyana is one of the few Caribbean countries that is not an island in the West Indies. The Caribbean Community (CARICOM), of which Guyana is a member, is headquartered in Guyana's capital and largest city, Georgetown.
The name Guyana is derived from Guiana, the original name for the region that formerly included Guyana (British Guiana), Suriname (Dutch Guiana), French Guiana, and parts of Colombia, Venezuela and Brazil. In addition to being part of the Anglophone Caribbean, Guyana is one of the few Caribbean countries that is not an island in the West Indies. The Caribbean Community (CARICOM), of which Guyana is a member, is headquartered in Guyana's capital and largest city, Georgetown.
8. Guyana is separated from Suriname by the Corentyne River, a river that has for over a 150 years been accepted as forming the western boundary of Suriname. Previously known as Dutch Guiana, Suriname was a colony of the Netherlands. 5. Oil exploration licences have been issued before by Guyana for what is now being called the area of overlap (the area near to Suriname's border extending into the Atlantic Ocean). In fact there was drilling there in 1974-75, which again produced no protest from Suriname.
The majority of the population, however, speak Guyanese Creole, an English-based creole language with slight Dutch, Arawakan and Caribbean influences. In addition to being part of the Anglophone Caribbean, Guyana is one of the few Caribbean countries that is not an island in the West Indies. The Caribbean Community (CARICOM), of which Guyana is a member, is headquartered in Guyana's capital and largest city, Georgetown.
News Americas, CARACAS, Venezuela, Weds. June 10, 2015: The question of whether the area called Essequibo in South America belongs to Guyana or Venezuela has raised its ugly head again on the heels of ExxonMobil’s recent announcement that it has found oil in the area’s waters. 
As has been already stated, Berbice was settled in 1627 by the Dutchman Abraham Van Pere. A few years later Suriname was settled by Lord Willoughby and Lawrence Hyde under a grant from the English King, Charles II. In the beginning, therefore, Suriname was a British and Berbice a Dutch possession. Berbice was taken in 1796 and Suriname in 1799. For administrative purposes, however, the Dutch Governors of the two colonies were not removed. Batenburg remained Governor of Berbice while Frederici, the Dutch appointee, retained his post as Governor of Suriname.