Definition. An informal organization is the social structure of the organization, as opposed to the formal structure of an organization. It establishes how an organization functions from a practical standpoint. Now, let's take a look at an informal organization. It's primarily a social creature-made up of the sum total of social norms, relationships, and interactions that affect how an organization works. While a formal organization is cold and impersonal, an informal organization is intensely personal.
The formal organization is basically goal-oriented entity that exist to accurate the efforts of individuals and it refers to the structure of jobs and positions with clearly defined functions, responsibilities and authorities. Definition of Formal Organization. According to Chester Banard “an organization is formal when the activities are coordinated towards a common objective”. He found that the essence of formal organization is conscious common purpose and that formal organization comes into being when persons:
Formal organization is a fixed set of rules of intra-organization procedures and structures. As such, it is usually set out in writing, with a language of rules that ostensibly leave little discretion for interpretation. Consequently, when attempting to legislate for an organization and to create a formal structure, it is necessary to recognize informal organization in order to create workable structures. However, informal organization can fail, or, if already set in order, can work against mismanagement.
Inherent in any organizational structure also is a distribution of work. The distribution can be formal or informal, temporary or enduring, but every organization will have some type of division of labor. There are four tasks that are key to any group: 1  Envisioning desired changes. 1 Structure binds members together. 2  It gives meaning and identity to the people who join the group, as well as to the group itself. 3  Structure in any organization is inevitable -- an organization, by definition, implies a structure. 4  Your group is going to have some structure whether it chooses to or not
These social influences may cause a member of the informal organization to work in conjunction with the organization, in parallel with it, or even against it. In some respects, you can think of an informal organization as: 1  An organization within the formal organization working with it. 2  An organization beside the formal organization working towards the same goals but not necessarily together. 3  Or an organization working outside the formal organization and against it. Now, let's take a look at an informal organization. It's primarily a social creature-made up of the sum total of social norms, relationships, and interactions that affect how an organization works. While a formal organization is cold and impersonal, an informal organization is intensely personal.
Jupiterimages/BananaStock/Getty Images. The concepts of formal and informal organizations relate to the nature of relationships and processes in the workplace. A formal organization is the literal structure of the organization including its organization chart, hierarchical reporting relationships and work processes. An organizational chart effectively outlines the structure of the formal organization. It shows the hierarchy from the CEO and top management to mid-level management to front-line employees. It also shows the horizontal interrelationships of various functional divisions or departments.
The informal organization is the interlocking social structure that governs how people work together in practice. 
1 To facilitate the accomplishment of the goals of the organization: In a formal organization, the work is delegated to each individual of the organization. 2  He/She works towards the attainment of definite goals, which are in compliance with the goals of the organization. Consequently, when attempting to legislate for an organization and to create a formal structure, it is necessary to recognize informal organization in order to create workable structures. However, informal organization can fail, or, if already set in order, can work against mismanagement.