Lacto-Relief is specifically designed to aid in the digestion of dairy products. The proprietary, multi-enzyme blend in Lacto-Relief includes lactase USP, amylases, proteases, lipase, alpha-galactosidase, HemiSEB ® (a proprietary blend of hemicellulases, beta-glucanase, xylanase, pectinase and phytase), and cellulase. Lactase deficiency can also be the result of damage to the small intestine from severe digestive diseases or a congenital absence of the lactase gene. In normal digestion, lactase breaks down the milk sugar lactose into glucose and galactose, two simpler forms of sugar.
Bromelain and Papain-Bromelain and papain are the proteolytic enzymes that assist in breaking down a wide variety of protein molecules in a range of both acidic and alkaline environments. They are used to minimize or prevent bloating, gas, and other digestive symptoms. The digestive enzymes in Vitalzym Digest are a naturally-derived, drug-free alternative to harsh prescription medications, and act as catalysts to boost the breakdown of complex of proteins, fats, and carbohydrates. Vitalzym Digest allows for this process and the absorption of nutrients as a healthy source of energy.
Equally important in taking the right digestive enzyme product is assuring the quality of the digestive enzymes you take. For example, lactose intolerance – due to a deficiency of the enzyme lactase – is a frequent reason for prescribing a digestive enzyme support product. Yet many of the digestive enzymes on the market (pancreatin, pepsin, papain, and bromelain) are actually diluted with hidden lactose! 
The human body produces digestive enzymes that break. down the food you eat into nutrients. Nutrients are then absorbed into your body. through the small intestine. When you are lacking enzymes, your body doesn’t digest properly, and as a result, your body does not absorb the nutrients it needs. A lack of digestive enzymes can lead to digestive and other general health problems. People who are lacking digestive enzymes may suffer with: 1  Heartburn. 
When you eat a meal, digestive enzymes released from the salivary glands, stomach, and small bowel immediately get to work to speed up digestion. Each enzyme acts on a specific type of food. A variety of different proteases, for example, break down the components of protein. Digestive enzymes are proteins specially tailored to break down foods into nutrients that your body can then readily digest. The human body produces some 22 different digestive enzymes. Many more are found in the fruits, vegetables, meats, grains, and other foods we eat. A number of digestive enzymes, from both plants and animals, are also sold as supplements
A protein digestive enzyme will not digest a fat; a fat enzyme will not digest a starch (carbohydrate). Each enzyme has a specific function in the body; this is referred to enzyme specificity. Enzymes act upon chemicals and change them into other chemicals, but enzymes themselves remain unchanged. Protease breaks down protein, amylase breaks down carbohydrate and starch, and lipase breaks down fat. These three enzymes break down the majority of the common food groups. Other enzymes include lactase (breaks down lactose-dairy), maltase & sucrase (break down food sugars), and cellulase (break down cellulose).
Digest Basic is a gentle formula that breaks down carbohydrates, fats, fiber and protein. The enzymes included in Digest Basic support optimal digestion by helping the body absorb nutrients and convert food into energy. Digestive well-being improves concentration and increases vitality. Thera-blend is an exclusive process that combines multiple strains of enzymes that work in various pH levels.
Digest Basic is a gentle formula that breaks down carbohydrates, fats, fiber and protein. The enzymes included in Digest Basic support optimal digestion by helping the body absorb nutrients and convert food into energy. Digestive well-being improves concentration and increases vitality. 