1 Rotavirus. 2  Symptoms of rotavirus — the leading cause of viral gastroenteritis in infants and young children — usually appear one to three days after exposure. 3  But you're contagious even before you develop symptoms, and up to two weeks after you've recovered. The contagious period — the time during which a sick person can give the illness to others — is slightly different for each virus. 1  Norovirus. 2  With norovirus — the most common cause of viral gastroenteritis in adults and children — you're contagious from the moment you begin to feel ill.
The Flu Is Contagious. Most healthy adults may be able to infect other people beginning 1 day before symptoms develop and up to 5 to 7 days after becoming sick. Children may pass the virus for longer than 7 days. Symptoms start 1 to 4 days after the virus enters the body. That means that you may be able to pass on the flu to someone else before you know you are sick, as well as while you are sick. Some people can be infected with the flu virus but have no symptoms
Children may pass the virus for longer than 7 days. Symptoms start 1 to 4 days after the virus enters the body. Information about how long a person is contagious is available at How Flu Spreads. Flu seasons are unpredictable and can be severe. Over a period of 30 years, between 1976 and 2006, estimates of flu-associated deaths in the United States range from a low of about 3,000 to a high of about 49,000 people.
How long am I contagious if I have the stomach flu? You can be contagious from a few days up to two weeks or more, depending on which virus is causing your stomach flu (gastroenteritis). 1 Although you typically feel better after a day or two, you're contagious for up to three days after you've recovered. 2  Some people may be contagious for up to two weeks after recovery. 3  Rotavirus.
So, if people don't wash their hands well after using the bathroom, they can spread the germs to others before they even know they are going to get sick. People are contagious for at least 3 days after all stomach flu (viral gastroenteritis) symptoms have completely stopped and they feel perfectly fine2. They were well by December 20. They had relatives come visit for Christmas on December 26 (1 week later). 3 of the visitors came down with the same stomach virus starting about 36 hours after arriving. My in-laws never got sick again since it was the same virus they just had. So, 1 week is NOT long enough to wait. People and houses are still contagious!
You can be contagious from a few days up to two weeks or more, depending on which virus is causing your stomach flu (gastroenteritis). A number of viruses can cause gastroenteritis, including noroviruses and rotaviruses. The contagious period — the time during which a sick person can give the illness to others — is slightly different for each virus. 1  Norovirus. 2  With norovirus — the most common cause of viral gastroenteritis in adults and children — you're contagious from the moment you begin to feel ill.
1 Symptoms usually appear within one to two days of exposure. 2  Although you typically feel better after a day or two, you're contagious for up to three days after you've recovered. 3  Some people may be contagious for up to two weeks after recovery. 4  Rotavirus. The contagious period — the time during which a sick person can give the illness to others — is slightly different for each virus. 1  Norovirus. 2  With norovirus — the most common cause of viral gastroenteritis in adults and children — you're contagious from the moment you begin to feel ill.
It varies from person to person. For adults, one day before the flu symptoms occur and a week after you become sick. You can begin being contagious even one or two days before … you know you have the flu, while you have symptoms-which usually last 7 - 10 days. The rule of thumb is that you are no longer contagious after you go for a full 24 hours without a fever while taking no fever reducing medication. + 2 others found this useful.