Most financial advisors charge a fee based on a percentage of your investments, called an asset under management (AUM) fee. If you have $500,000, a 1% fee means you'll pay $5,000 a year. One million dollars with the same advisor costs $10,000 a year, and so on. This is standard across the industry.
The advisor charges a fee based on a percentage of your account value. As your account value grows, they will make more money. If your account value goes down, they will make less money. In this way, they have an incentive to grow your account and to minimize losses.
As far as paying for actual advice, if your needs are basic, you can again get what you need for a very modest cost. For example, Vanguard offers a basic financial plan for $250 for anybody with $50,000 or more invested with Vanguard and completely free of charge for anybody with $500,000 or more invested with them.
Most investment advisors charge a fee that is a percentage of assets that they manage on your behalf. This fee is usually higher for smaller accounts, and lower for larger accounts. A general range would be two percent a year on the high side, down to a half of a percent a year on the low side.
How Much Should You Pay a Financial Advisor? This tax season, relative to preparing my return by hand, I would say that TurboTax saved me at least $500 worth of time and stress.
Financial advisor fees vary. Some advisors charge fees in the form of commissions; others in the form of an hourly rate, or percentage of your account value. Below are the six ways financial advisors may charge fees. This is one of the most common ways that a financial advisor, or investment advisor, will charge.
Fee-only advisors charge a percentage of your account value every year, and in return, you get advice and investment management. If you bring an advisor, say, $100,000 of your savings and the advisor charges a 1.0% fee, you'll pay the advisor $1,000 a year. According to Forbes, these fees run from 0.75% to 1.5% of your account annually, though 2% is not uncommon.