People who suffer from Pyroluria produce excessive amounts of these Pyrroles which bind to or inhibit the nutrients; Vitamin B6, Zinc (1-7), Biotin 8, and the Omega 6 Fat GLA from reaching their targets within your body. This effectively renders these nutrients unavailable to you. Pyroluria is known by many different names including Pyrrole Disorder, Kryptopyrrole, Kryptopyrroluria, Pyrroluria, Pyrolle Disorder, Mauve Factor and Hemepyrrole. Pyroluria can best be described as the abnormal synthesis and metabolism of the oxygen carrying molecule in your blood, called haemoglobin
Pyroluria. Pyroluria is a genetic condition that causes depression, anxiety and social withdrawal, usually starting in the teenage years and continuing throughout the patient's life. Pyroluria causes an excess of a substance called pyrroles in the bloodstream. The pyrroles bind to B6 and zinc, which are then excreted in the urine, causing severe deficiencies of B6 and zinc.
Pyroluria is a genetically acquired chemical imbalance in which the body produces an abnormally large number of pyrroles. A pyrolle is a chemical consisting of a 5 membered aromatic ring. 
1 Stress is a trigger, and is one of the main factors that worsens pyroluria symptoms for those who already have it. ( 2 12,13) However, it is not clear if stress is an actual cause of the condition, especially in adults. 3  Chronic infection in infancy, childhood or adolescence. 4  Alcoholism of the sufferer or his/her parents. As many as 10-15% of all people suffer from pyroluria. It is a lifelong condition, and symptoms tend to worsen with age and stress. Often people with pyroluria will suffer a variety of serious ailments and degenerative diseases for years, regardless of what therapies they try or how well they eat.
……..Perfectly Natural. Pyroluria is a genetic disorder that causes anxiety, depression and other mood disorders affecting children right through to adulthood. The onset of Pyroluria usually occurs with a traumatic incident such as moving interstate or becoming unemployed, parental divorce or death of a loved one. Pyroluria is a blood disorder affecting the way our red blood cells are broken down. In a person with Pyroluria certain by-products from our red blood cells accumulate in the body. These by-products aren't cleared from the body fast enough and end up binding to our nutrients.
1 Pyroluria is also an epigenetic condition in which severe stresses in childhood or adolescence can bring on heritable genetic changes. 2  Childhood trauma. 3  Stress is a trigger, and is one of the main factors that worsens pyroluria symptoms for those who already have it. As many as 10-15% of all people suffer from pyroluria. It is a lifelong condition, and symptoms tend to worsen with age and stress. Often people with pyroluria will suffer a variety of serious ailments and degenerative diseases for years, regardless of what therapies they try or how well they eat.
BerkanaWay. Pyroluria is a condition whose root cause is an inborn genetic error in the production of too much kryptopyrrole (KP) in the blood. Elevated kryptopyrrole levels result from an abnormality in hemoglobin (the protein that holds iron in red blood cells)
Pyroluria is a genetically determined chemical imbalance involving an abnormality in hemoglobin synthesis. Hemoglobin is the protein that holds iron in the red blood cell. Individuals with this disorder produce too much of a byproduct of hemoglobin synthesis called kryptopyrrole (KP) or hemepyrrole.. 