Meaning of Tom. English name. In English, the name Tom means-Derives from Thomas Twin... Other origins for the name Tom include-English, Greek.The name Tom is most often used as a boy name or male name. English Name Meaning-Derives from Thomas Twin.. Origin-English. Alternate Origins-Greek.
Aramaic Meaning: The name Tom is an Aramaic baby name. In Aramaic the meaning of the name Tom is: Twin. American Meaning: The name Tom is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Tom is: Twin. English Meaning: The name Tom is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Tom is: Derives from Thomas 'Twin. 
The name Thomas is an Aramaic baby name. In Aramaic the meaning of the name Thomas is: Twin. Hebrew Meaning: The name Thomas is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Thomas is: Twin. American Meaning: The name Thomas is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Thomas is: Twin. Biblical Meaning: The name Thomas is a Biblical baby name. In Biblical the meaning of the name Thomas is: A twin.
Below is a charted analysis of the popularity of the boy name Tom and associated names. Thomas (#54 the previous year) , Tomas (#658) , Tommy (#725) and Tommie are the prominent alternative forms of Tom. Forms like Tam are uncommon. How popular is Tom? Tom is a very popular first name for males (#154 out of 1220, Top 13%) and also a very popular surname for all people (#3405 out of 150436, Top 2%). (2000 U.S. Census)
Thomas is a masculine given name. It is based on the Biblical Greek θωμᾶς, which is itself a transcription of the Aramaic te'oma תאומא  twin , the Hebrew cognate being tə'ōm תאום.  Tom  or Thom are abbreviations of Thomas, and  Tommy  is a common variant; Tam is a common abbreviation used in Scotland. 
Thomas /tho-mas/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced TAH-mas. It is of Aramaic origin, and the meaning of Thomas is twin. Biblical: one of the 12 apostles known as doubting Thomas as he has an unusual mixture of pessimism and zealous faith. Some say his full name was Judas Thomas (Judas the Twin), and the nickname distinguished him from Judas Iscariot. Below is a graphed comparison of the usage of the boy name Thomas and affiliated names. Tom, Tomas (#658 a year ago) , Tommie and Tommy (#725) are the popular variation forms of Thomas (#54 a year ago) listed in the Top 1000.
Notes: Also a Hebrew boys name meaning 'innocence' or 'purity'. Tom Hanks, actor. Tom Petty, singer/songwriter. Tom Cruise, actor. 
Tom /tom/ [1 syll.] as a boys' name is of Aramaic origin, and the meaning of Tom is twin. Short form of Thomas. Most common in the 19th century as an independent name. Actors Tom Cruise, Tom Hanks. How popular is Tom? Tom is a very popular first name for males (#154 out of 1220, Top 13%) and also a very popular surname for all people (#3405 out of 150436, Top 2%). (2000 U.S. Census)