If we don't carry the bobble head doll you want we can make a custom head-to-toe bobblehead for you from 7 to 24 Below are a few of our thousands of custom bobbleheads...Our handmade personalized bobbleheads are truly one of a kind unique gifts that provide a lifetime of smiles. 
1 Bobbleheads from TestQAItems can not be put on a bobblehead stand. 2  Regardless of where the bobbleheads are found, they are all wearing Vault 101 jumpsuits. 3  Although bobbleheads do not appear in Fallout New Vegas, the snow globes serve as the game's collectibles, just as the bobbleheads do in Fallout 3. Effect Edit. Each of the Vault-Tec bobbleheads in Fallout 3 permanently increases one of the 7 S.P.E.C.I.A.L. statistics by 1 point, or one of the 13 skills of the player character by 10 points. The bobbleheads will not increase a statistic beyond the maximum of 10 (S.P.E.C.I.A.L.) or 100 (skills)
1 In the 1993 Wee Sing video: The Wee Sing Train, a Sheriff Knickerbocker bobblehead is seen. 2  In 2001, Audi broadcast commercials in Europe featuring an Elvis impersonator and a prototypical Wackel-Elvis (Wobble Elvis or Wobbly Elvis) dashboard figure with a wobbling left arm and hip. Thanjavur Dolls of India bobblehead dolls are of a class known as Thanjavur Thalayatti Bommai in the Tamil language, meaning Tanjore Head-Shaking Doll. They are a native art form in the Thanjavur region of Tamil Nadu state in South India. These dolls are usually 6 to 12 tall (15 to 30 cm).
1 Regardless of where the bobbleheads are found, they are all wearing Vault 101 jumpsuits. 2  Although bobbleheads do not appear in Fallout New Vegas, the snow globes serve as the game's collectibles, just as the bobbleheads do in Fallout 3. 3  The Charisma bobblehead is seen in a workshop in the first trailer for Fallout 4. Effect Edit. Each of the Vault-Tec bobbleheads in Fallout 3 permanently increases one of the 7 S.P.E.C.I.A.L. statistics by 1 point, or one of the 13 skills of the player character by 10 points. The bobbleheads will not increase a statistic beyond the maximum of 10 (S.P.E.C.I.A.L.) or 100 (skills)
Fallout 3 is an action role-playing open world video game developed by Bethesda Game Studios, and is the third major installment in the Fallout series. The game was released in North America, Europe and Australia in October 2008, and in Japan in December 2008 for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360. The NPD Group estimated that Fallout 3 sold over 610,000 units during its initial month of release in October 2008, performing better than Bethesda Softworks' previous game The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion, which sold nearly 500,000 units in its first month.
These classic collectibles are thought to date back at least 150 years. The earliest known reference to similar toys is from the 1842 short story The Overcoat by Nikolai Gogol, which described a character as having a neck which was like the neck of plaster cats which wag their heads. By 1960, Major League Baseball produced a series of papier-mache bobblehead dolls, for each baseball team, all with the same angel-like face. Player-specific dolls for Mickey Mantle, Willie Mays, Roger Maris, and Roberto Clemente, were produced for the first time and sold during the 1960 World Series.
Wedding. My husband ordered a bobblehead for each of his groomsmen (7) for our wedding on September 13, 2008. I just wanted to say we were amazed with the customer service and even more amazed when we received the finished bobbleheads in the mail. I owe you a great many thanks for all the hard work you and your team did on the bobbleheads for our wedding, back in October 2006. We gave them to the groomsmen at the rehearsal dinner and the whole room went crazy.
The bobblehead set for the Beatles became one of the most famous and rare of all time, and it is still a valuable collectible today. However, by the mid-1970s, bobbleheads had again fallen out of favor, and very few new bobbleheads were produced. It would take nearly two decades for them to return to prominence. By 1960, Major League Baseball produced a series of papier-mache bobblehead dolls, for each baseball team, all with the same angel-like face. Player-specific dolls for Mickey Mantle, Willie Mays, Roger Maris, and Roberto Clemente, were produced for the first time and sold during the 1960 World Series.
The earliest known reference to a bobblehead is thought to be in Nikolai Gogol 's 1842 short story  The Overcoat , in which the main character's neck was described as like the necks of plaster cats which wag their heads. The modern bobblehead first appeared in the 1950s. Thanjavur Dolls of India bobblehead dolls are of a class known as Thanjavur Thalayatti Bommai in the Tamil language, meaning Tanjore Head-Shaking Doll. They are a native art form in the Thanjavur region of Tamil Nadu state in South India. These dolls are usually 6 to 12 tall (15 to 30 cm).