When in doubt, slow down. To help guide you, a runner training for a half marathon should run their recovery runs about 1-2 minutes slower than their goal half marathon pace in order to maintain a true recovery pace. For a marathoner, recovery pace is about 60-90 seconds slower per mile than marathon goal pace. What is an easy recovery run. A recovery run is a training day that is designed to facilitate recovery by delivering oxygen and nutrients to the muscles damaged during running. The main purpose of a recovery run is restoration, not building aerobic strength.
For example, if your marathon time goal is three hours, you should probably do at least one long run of close to three hours. The exception: If youre a first timer with a goal of four hours or slower, you shouldnt do a long run of that length. Its too risky. If you plan a day or two of easy running and/or rest before your long run, youre less likely to be overly fatigued during the long run itself, and the recovery will be easier. Treat a weekend long run almost like a race. Taper for it, and rest or jog easily both before and after. Also, carbo-load
The long run is the staple of every distance runners diet. If youre training for a marathon, its de rigeur. Novice runners use them as springboards to the finish line, and elite marathon runners do multiple long runs to improve their times. If you plan a day or two of easy running and/or rest before your long run, youre less likely to be overly fatigued during the long run itself, and the recovery will be easier. Treat a weekend long run almost like a race. Taper for it, and rest or jog easily both before and after. Also, carbo-load
Generally, it takes a minimum of two to three weeks for the body to recover from the strain of running 26 miles 385 yards. Return too quickly and you increase your risk of injury. Some experts suggest resting one day for every mile you run in the marathon, thus 26 days of no hard running or racing! Others suggest one day for every kilometer, thus 42 days rest. Well, that might be waiting too long before resuming tough training.
In other words, run at a pace that is easy and conversational. If you can talk while you're running the long run, you're at the right effort. If you can't, you're running too fast. Avoid trying to run the long runs by a pace or target time. This sets you up for the race pace training disaster where you feel great for about four to six weeks, then things start to crumble when your energy levels decline, your body aches, and performance begins to suffer. Running Too Far, Too Quickly. Soon after you commit to a half or full marathon, it's time to train. Excitement from the target can encourage runners to tackle longer runs than their bodies are ready for at that point, which can quickly lead to aches, pains, burn out and poor performance down the road.
It’s important to understand why you get sore after a hard run and why this is a good thing. When you run a hard workout, you break your body down. You get faster when your body has enough time and resources to heal the damage and adapt. The key is to learn how to properly recover from long runs and hard workouts. After 12 years of competitive running, I’ve learned it’s an art and it’s taken me this long to implement everything correctly. The problem is that a lot of runners don’t take simple measures to recover as much as possible from their running. 1 This is more of a mental recovery period for me. 2  After 2 hours, I take a 1.5-2 hour nap. 3  Ryan Hall calls his naps “business meetings” because they are part of his job to get faster. 4  This is when your body starts to really repair the damage from your hard workout or long run.
1 Distance: Most coaches advise long runs of 16-23 miles, depending on your experience. 2  Slower runners should concentrate more on time than distance, and do runs of three to three-and-a-half hours. 3  Frequency: Most coaches suggest three to six long runs of 16 miles or more in the three months leading up to the marathon. If you plan a day or two of easy running and/or rest before your long run, youre less likely to be overly fatigued during the long run itself, and the recovery will be easier. Treat a weekend long run almost like a race. Taper for it, and rest or jog easily both before and after. Also, carbo-load
Recovery is a function of both how hard you run a marathon or ultra and your training base mileage. If you run a 50 miler at the same hardness as a marathon, it will take a while to recover. If you run marathons as training runs, then recovery will be swift. 
The Long Run Recovery Routine. Recovery starts before you even take your first step. Start your workout well hydrated and properly fueled. I like to have either coffee or green tea before my long runs; caffeine is a proven performance enhancer and both have a lot of antioxidants. 1 This is more of a mental recovery period for me. 2  After 2 hours, I take a 1.5-2 hour nap. 3  Ryan Hall calls his naps “business meetings” because they are part of his job to get faster. 4  This is when your body starts to really repair the damage from your hard workout or long run.