Place your chicken in a 350-degree preheated oven. Baking at a temperature higher than 350 degrees will cause the outside of your chicken to cook faster, leaving the inside raw or undercooked. Cooking time depends on the chicken's weight and cut. For example, chicken breasts may require only 20 to 30 minutes while a whole chicken will require one to two hours. Once your grill is heated, place the cooking rack on the lowest setting. Place your drained, marinated chicken on the rack and close the lid to your grill. The side closest to the bottom will cook faster; therefore, after 30 minutes, you must turn the chicken over to cook it evenly.
1 Add the chicken breasts, coat with the marinade, squeeze out excess air, and seal the bag. 2  Marinate in the refrigerator 30 minutes to overnight. 3  Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C). 4  Line a baking sheet with aluminum foil, or lightly grease a broiler pan. 1 Marinate in the refrigerator 30 minutes to overnight. 2  Preheat oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C). 3  Line a baking sheet with aluminum foil, or lightly grease a broiler pan. 4  Remove the chicken breasts from the marinade, and shake off excess.
Preheat your oven to 325 degrees and place your chicken in a nonstick roasting pan. Cover your chicken and cook it in the oven for 30 minutes to an hour to cook the inside. Remove the cover and baste your chicken with oil or marinade and cook uncovered for one to two hours, basting every 20 to 30 minutes. The oil or marinade will brown the outer skin of your chicken, leaving it crispy on the outside. Once your grill is heated, place the cooking rack on the lowest setting. Place your drained, marinated chicken on the rack and close the lid to your grill. The side closest to the bottom will cook faster; therefore, after 30 minutes, you must turn the chicken over to cook it evenly.
Coat a baking pan with a thin layer of cooking spray. Remove the chicken breasts from the marinade, and allow the excess marinade to drip off before placing them onto the baking pan. Bake the chicken breasts in the preheated oven for 40 minutes, or until the meat's juices run clear. Remove the chicken from the oven. Allow the meat to stand for five minutes before serving
Heat a grill or grill pan. When the grill is hot, place the chicken on the grill and cook for about 4 minutes per side, or until cooked through. You can also bake the thawed chicken in a 375 degree F oven for 15 minutes, or until cooked through. Marinated five breasts for several hours put the chicken on a foil lined pan, poured the leftover marinade over it and baked it for about 30 minutes (we had to turn the heat up for a bit from the 375 stated in the recipe near the end, but it did no harm to the chicken). Again delicious.
1 Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C). 2  Remove chicken from bag, discarding remaining marinade. 3  Place chicken in a lightly greased 9x13 inch baking dish and bake at 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) for 1 hour, or until chicken is cooked through and juices run clear. 1 Remove chicken from bag, discarding remaining marinade. 2  Place chicken in a lightly greased 9x13 inch baking dish and bake at 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) for 1 hour, or until chicken is cooked through and juices run clear. 3  Note: Turn chicken occasionally while baking.
1 Add wings to the marinade and place in the fridge for about 20 minutes before cooking. 2  Wings don't need to be marinated for very long. 3  Cook on a BBQ or place in a moderate oven, about 180 degrees celcius until caramalized and golden. 4  About 40 minutes. 