When food enters the duodenum it is deluged with pancreatic juice, which is defined as an alkaline secretion of the pancreas containing enzymes that aid in the digestion of proteins, carbohydrates and fats. Let's review. The pancreas is an important organ in digestion because it produces a variety of enzymes that break down all of the major food groups. In addition to the enzymes, your pancreas also secretes bicarbonate, which makes the pancreatic secretions alkaline in nature.
To digest food, your digestive tract needs some help from nearby organs, including the liver, gallbladder, and pancreas, that produce or store enzymes and other substances that help break down food. After meals, the gallbladder releases bile into the duodenum to aid with digestion. The cystic duct carries bile from the gallbladder to the common bile duct, which empties into the duodenum. Entry of bile into the duodenum is regulated by layers of muscle called the sphincter of Oddi.
Pancreas. The pancreas is a long, thin gland that lies horizontally behind the bottom part of your stomach. It makes digestive enzymes that flow through the pancreatic duct to the small intestine. These enzymes, along with bile from the gallbladder, break down food for use as energy by the body. After meals, the gallbladder releases bile into the duodenum to aid with digestion. The cystic duct carries bile from the gallbladder to the common bile duct, which empties into the duodenum. Entry of bile into the duodenum is regulated by layers of muscle called the sphincter of Oddi.
Chronic pancreatitis occurs when the digestive enzymes attack and destroy the pancreas. Acute pancreatitis that damages pancreatic duct may lead to chronic pancreatitis. The major cause for chronic pancreatitis is chronic alcoholism. It is characterized with abdominal pain, nausea and vomiting. 
Click to read more below. The stomach, gallbladder, and pancreas are three of the most important digestive organs in the human body. These organs work together to produce and store secretions that digest our food into its most basic building blocks. Our pancreas produces the hormones insulin and glucagon to affect the behavior of cells throughout the body. 1  Gastrin is a hormone produced by the walls of the stomach in response to the filling of the stomach with food.
The pancreas is an integral part of the digestive system, and the flow of the digestive system is often altered during the surgical treatment of pancreatic cancer. Therefore it is helpful to review the normal flow of food and the flow of digestive enzymes of the pancreas before reading about surgical treatment. Bile is a greenish-yellow fluid that aids in the digestion of fats in food. After being produced by cells in the liver, the bile travels down through the bile ducts which merge with the cystic duct from the gallbladder to form the common bile duct.
The pancreas is also a digestive organ, secreting pancreatic juice containing digestive enzymes that assist digestion and absorption of nutrients in the small intestine. These enzymes help to further break down the carbohydrates, proteins, and lipids in the chyme. The pancreas also functions as an exocrine gland that assists the digestive system. It secretes pancreatic fluid that contains digestive enzymes that pass to the small intestine. These enzymes help to further break down the carbohydrates, proteins and lipids (fats)
For example, if cancer of the pancreas spreads to the liver, the cancer cells in the liver are pancreatic cancer cells. The disease is metastatic pancreatic cancer, not liver cancer. It is treated as pancreatic cancer, not liver cancer. Cancer of the pancreas may be called pancreatic cancer or carcinoma of the pancreas. A rare type of pancreatic cancer begins in the cells that make insulin and other hormones. Cancer that begins in these cells is called islet cell cancer.
Pancreatic Cancer. Pancreatic cancer begins when a tumor forms in the pancreas. The pancreas is an elongated organ, about six inches in length, which lies behind the abdomen and is surrounded by the liver and the intestines. Signs and symptoms, such as jaundice (yellow discoloration of the eyes and skin), unexplained weight loss, and abdominal pain typically appear when the disease is at an advanced stage. The most common pancreatic cancer, called adenocarcinoma of the pancreas, occurs in the lining of
Storage. The stomach, gallbladder, and pancreas all function together as storage organs of the digestive system. The stomach stores food that has been ingested and releases it in small masses to the duodenum. Our pancreas produces the hormones insulin and glucagon to affect the behavior of cells throughout the body. 1  Gastrin is a hormone produced by the walls of the stomach in response to the filling of the stomach with food.