Proxima’s orbit around the two primary stars in the Alpha Centauri system is thought to take as long as half a billion years. It’s the closest star to our Earth and sun, about a trillion kilometers closer than the other two star in the Alpha Centauri system. Hence its name. Bottom line: The Alpha Centauri system is the closest star system to our sun. On our sky’s dome, we see this multiple system as a single star – the third-brightest star visible from Earth. Charts, photos and info about this fascinating star system.
View full size image. The star Proxima Centauri lies a scant 4 light-years from Earth, making it the closest stellar neighbor to our own sun and a perfect target for the Hubble Space Telescope. In this Hubble telescope photo, Proxima Centauri shines as a bright point-like object, but that appearance is deceiving. The image does not show the other two stars which make up a triple star system with Proxima Centauri. Its two companions, Alpha Centauri A and B, lie outside the frame. Hubble acquired the image in 1996, and NASA unveiled it in 2013.
Therefore its temperature and color also match those of the Sun. Alpha Centauri B is an orange star with a spectral type of K1. Whereas Alpha Centauri A and B are stars like the Sun, Proxima is a dim red dwarf with a spectral type of M5 - much fainter, cooler, and smaller than the Sun. Proxima is so faint that astronomers did not discover it until 1915. 
Proxima is the closest star to Earth. Faint red Proxima Centauri – at only 3,100 K and 500 times less bright than our sun – is nearly a fifth of a light year from Alpha Centauri A and B. This great distance is what calls into question its status as part of a triple star system. Bottom line: The Alpha Centauri system is the closest star system to our sun. On our sky’s dome, we see this multiple system as a single star – the third-brightest star visible from Earth. Charts, photos and info about this fascinating
A red dwarf with the mass of Proxima Centauri will remain on the main sequence for about four trillion years. As the proportion of helium increases because of hydrogen fusion, the star will become smaller and hotter, gradually transforming from red to blue. Proxima Centauri is a red dwarf, because it belongs to the main sequence on the Hertzsprung–Russell diagram and is of spectral class M6. M6 means that it falls in the low-mass end of M-type stars.
As the nearest star from our Solar System, Proxima Centauri is a prime candidate for future interstellar travel and space colonization missions. X-Ray image of Proxima Centauri. Now, even if Proxima Centauri is the nearest star, it is still 4.2 light years away. That’s about 4 x 10 13 km. The spacecraft that would take the first explorers to that system would have to rely on a virtually unlimited supply of energy. Furthermore, sufficient shielding against cosmic radiation should be in place.
Image: Proxima Centauri (shown by the arrow) in relation to Centauri A and B. The latter appear as a single bright object at upper left. Credit: European Southern Observatory. In his book Alpha Centauri: The Nearest Star (New York: William Morrow & Company, 1976), Isaac Asimov imagined what Proxima Centauri would look like from a planet around either of the binary stars. At first glance, one expects that the Alpha Centauri planets will be very dry. The period of the AB binary pair is only 79 years. The orbital eccentricity, e=0.52, indicates that the stars come within 11.2 AU of each other at close approach.
Proxima Centauri is very likely part of a triple star system with Alpha Centauri A and B, but its orbital period may be greater than 500,000 years. Proxima Centauri is a red dwarf, because it belongs to the main sequence on the Hertzsprung–Russell diagram and is of spectral class M6. M6 means that it falls in the low-mass end of M-type stars.
Alpha Centauri is part of a double, or triple, star system. The two main components are Alpha Centauri A and Alpha Centauri B. The third star, a red dwarf called Proxima Centauri, is thought to be about 4.22 light-years distant and is actually our sun’s closest neighbor among the stars. Bottom line: The Alpha Centauri system is the closest star system to our sun. On our sky’s dome, we see this multiple system as a single star – the third-brightest star visible from Earth. Charts, photos and info about this fascinating