A foal is an equine, particularly a horse, that is one year old or younger. More specific terms are colt for a male foal and filly for a female foal, but these terms are used until the horse is age three or four. When the foal is nursing from its dam (mother), it may also be called a suckling. A castrated male horse is called a gelding, regardless of age, though colloquially the term gelding colt is sometimes used until a young gelding is three or four years old. (There is no specific term for a spayed female horse, they are simply spayed mares.).
Some people think a baby horse is called a pony. In fact, a baby horse is called a foal. A foal is a horse that is younger than one year old. A pony can be any age! Ponies have short legs and wider bodies than full-sized horses
Confidence votes 5.0K. A baby horse is called a foal. A baby female is called a filly-foal and a baby male is called a colt-foal. Once they are weaned they are called foal, filly, and colt, respectively until three years old, when they become horse, mare, and stallion, (or gelding) respectively. Other contributors have said: A filly is a female of racing age
A baby horse is called a foal. A baby female is called a filly-foal and a baby male is called a colt-foal. Once they are weaned they are called foal, filly, and colt, re … spectively until three years old, when they become horse, mare, and stallion, (or gelding) respectively. A young girl horse is called a filly, and a young male is called a colt. An adult female is called a mare, and an un-castrated adult male is called a stallion. A castrated adu … lt male is called a gelding.
Answer: All newborn horses are foals A colt is an uncastrated male horse less than four years old A filly is a female horse less than four years old A mare is an older female horse of breeding age   Baby horses are called foals. Generally, a baby horse is called a foal. A young girl horse is called a filly, and a young male is called a colt. An adult female is called a mare, and an un-castrated adult male is called a stallion. A castrated adu … lt male is called a gelding.
well a baby horse is called a foal and a baby femae hrse is a filly and a baby male hrse is a colt.The male is called a colt until it is turned 4 years.Sam wth the filly. A newly born baby horse is called a foal, when the horse gives birth it's often called foaling and as it gets a little bigger the baby grows into a colt. Kind of like a baby growing into a toddler. the_mystical_runt · 9 years ago. Thumbs up. 2. Thumbs down. 3. Comment. Add a comment. Submit.
If the foal is a female, it is a filly. When a filly turns 4 years old, it becomes a mare. A baby horse that is a male is called a colt. When the colt turns 4 years old, it is called a stallion if it can produce foals, and if it is gelded, or can't have foals, it is called a gelding. I hope this helps. I love horses · 8 years ago. Best Answer: If you do not know the sex of the baby horse or if you are talking generically, then you call the baby a foal. If you know the baby is male then you call it a colt. If the colt has been fixed (gelded like neutering a dog) you call it
Best Answer: The general term for a baby horse is foal. A young female horse is a filly. A young male horse is a colt. If you are interested in knowing: An adult female horse is a mare. An adult male horse is a stallion. An adult male horse that has been castrated is a gelding. 