Step 4. Using the tub / shower surround carton for a template, mark the location of the faucet handles, spout and any other items that will protrude through the wall. Cut out the holes and use those to mark the locations of the holes on the tub / shower surround panels
Step 4 - Remove the Surround. To remove the surround, you will need to remove the drywall to which the surround is attached. If you try to remove the surround without removing the drywall, the drywall will most likely be damaged or destroyed. Make a cut in the drywall an inch above the top edge of the surround, using a utility knife or drywall saw. Slip the end of your crowbar between the back surface of the drywall and find a wall stud. 
4. Loosen and remove the set screw under the tub spout using a screwdriver. If you cannot find a set screw, then try turning the spout counterclockwise with an adjustable wrench. Some spouts thread directly onto the water pipe. 12. Cut a notch out of the top of the tub surround down to the shower arm with the utility knife. The notch helps to remove the panel from around the shower arm without damaging the arm.
11. Remove the corner retainer from the side wall panel of the tub surround and pull this panel away as you did the first. Some side wall panels are installed in two pieces. Pull off the first, remove the retaining trim that joins them, and then pull the second panel from the wall. 12. Cut a notch out of the top of the tub surround down to the shower arm with the utility knife. The notch helps to remove the panel from around the shower arm without damaging the arm.
A tub surround is a wall system that is installed over the existing wall around your tub and shower. If your tub surround is cracked, stained or discolored, you may want to remove it to replace it with something else. Tub surrounds are often secured to the wall using adhesive and retaining clips. 12. Cut a notch out of the top of the tub surround down to the shower arm with the utility knife. The notch helps to remove the panel from around the shower arm without damaging the arm.
Screwed in Shower Surround Removal. Cut away all the caulking that is holding the shower surround to the wall with a utility knife. Move slowly while cutting around the edge of the surround wall so you minimize the damage to the underlying surface. Then remove all the screws with either a screw driver or a screw gun. After you have cut away the caulking as specified in the directions above, you can start carefully peeling away the plastic shower surround from the wall. The adhesive will most likely cause some damage to the wall in the removal and the drywall should be repaired with joint compound afterward.
Save. Removing a shower surround may be a little difficult, but you can usually do it yourself. There are two options a shower surround can be installed, which will determine its removal method. One way is by screws and caulking and the other is by using adhesive and caulking. After you have cut away the caulking as specified in the directions above, you can start carefully peeling away the plastic shower surround from the wall. The adhesive will most likely cause some damage to the wall in the removal and the drywall should be repaired with joint compound afterward.
Instructions. Remove the water faucet, handles and any accessories such as a grab bar or soap dish. Use a reciprocating saw to cut through and remove the drywall approximately 2 inches above the top of the tub surround to expose the fastening flange. The fastening flange is behind the drywall attached directly to the studs. Pull out the nails or screws that are fastening the tub surround to the wall studs. Pry the tub surround away from the wall using a pry bar.