Turkey is one of the most beautiful and exotic locations on earth. However, many people don't know just how amazing this land is, or they just have misconceptions about it. What many people do not realize is that Turkey is unlike any other country in the region. 
Among all sports in Turkey, the most popular one is football. Turkey's top teams include Fenerbahce, Fenerbahçe galatasaray And. beşiktaş 
Don't forget to download your free printable Top 10 Tourist Attractions of Turkey map and guidebook now. 1. Hagia Sophia. Probably the most famous tourist attraction in Turkey, the Hagia Sophia is one of the best preserved ancient buildings in the world. Built in the sixth century AD by the Byzantine Emperor Justinian, the building was converted to a mosque with the Turkish conquest and today operates as a museum. 7. Troy. One of Turkey’s most famous tourist attractions, the story of Troy has had everything from Homer’s ancient yarns to the full Hollywood stylings. Yet to truly get a feel for this legendary city you need to explore its walls and take a stroll around its streets, homes and theatres.
1 Tradition in Turkey says that a stranger at one’s doorstep is considered God’s guest for at least three days. 2  Turkey is noted for having one of the three most famous and distinctive traditional cuisines in the world. 3  The First Ecumenical Council was held in Iznik, Turkey. 1 The first church built by man (St. Peter ’s Church) is in Antioch (Antakya), Turkey. 2  The oldest known human settlement is in Catalhoyuk, Turkey (7th Millenium B.C.). 3  Ephesus and Halicarnasus (the place for the two of the Seven Wonders of the ancient world) are in Turkey.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Here is a map of Turkey, and Istanbul. http://worldatlas.com/webimage/countrys/... The capital of Turkey used to be Istanbul but was moved to Ankara in 1923 when the country became a Republic. First, Istanbul was called Byzantium, then Constantinople. It is divided by the Bosphorus: one side is Europe, the other Asia, where east meets west. From 1453 it was the seat of the Ottoman Empire. 
The European portion of Turkey is known as Thrace, while the Asian is called Anatolia or Asia Minor; Istanbul straddles both as the world's only city located on two continents. Turkey is surrounded on three sides by water-the Agean, Black and Mediterranean Seas-yielding more than 5,000 miles of coastline. Indeed it is the only city in Turkey with an urban development plan dating to the 1930s, the result of the formerly provincial town being named the capital of The Republic or Turkey by its founder, Kemal Atat rk, in 1923.
Today, the turkey is one of the most popular meats to eat on festive occasions and is farmed in large numbers across the western world. It is thought that over 250 million turkeys are farmed in the United States every year! The turkey has become famous across the western world as being a special meal on large family occasions including Christmas and Thanksgiving. Despite their large size, turkeys are surprisingly adept fliers and can be seen flying beneath the forest canopy looking for somewhere to perch.
1 Istanbul was chosen by the European Union as the European Capital of Culture in 2010. 2  Tradition in Turkey says that a stranger at one’s doorstep is considered God’s guest for at least three days. 3  Turkey is noted for having one of the three most famous and distinctive traditional cuisines in the world. 1 The first church built by man (St. Peter ’s Church) is in Antioch (Antakya), Turkey. 2  The oldest known human settlement is in Catalhoyuk, Turkey (7th Millenium B.C.). 3  Ephesus and Halicarnasus (the place for the two of the Seven Wonders of the ancient world) are in Turkey.
Interesting facts about Turkey. 1  The famous Trojan Wars took place in Western Turkey, around the site where the Trojan horse rests today. 2  The first church built by man (St. Peter ’s Church) is in Antioch (Antakya), Turkey. 3  The oldest known human settlement is in Catalhoyuk, Turkey (7th Millenium B.C.). 1 The first church built by man (St. Peter ’s Church) is in Antioch (Antakya), Turkey. 2  The oldest known human settlement is in Catalhoyuk, Turkey (7th Millenium B.C.). 3  Ephesus and Halicarnasus (the place for the two of the Seven Wonders of the ancient world) are in Turkey.