How much CEOs earn an hour. Getting paid $10-an-hour is a welcome lift for Walmart (WMT) and McDonald's (MCD) workers. But compare that with what the average restaurant and retail CEOs earn. The 13 CEOs of a group of well-known retailers and restaurants haul in an average $5,859 an hour according to a USA TODAY analysis of data from S&P Capital IQ.
Basically it is divided into 2 slots, day slot and night slot. People working in night slots are paid more salary as compared to those working in the day slot. According to the recent survey, the fresher's are paid in between $8 to $10 per hour and experienced candidates are paid in between $12 to $15 per hour. The salary slab depends upon the level of CNA certification and this may differ from one organization to the other.
Ricoh pays for basic life insurance coverage for each employee equal to one times salary, rounded to the next. higher $1,000. There is a $10,000 minimum and a $200,000 maximum. Employees who work 30 hours or more are eligible for coverage in Ricoh’s health and welfare plans on the first. of the month coincident with or next following three months of employment. Medical Coverage. Ricoh employees can select an HMO or a PPO medical plan.
Take home pay is calculated based on up to six different hourly pay rates that you enter along with the pertinent Federal, State and local W-4 information. This Arizona hourly paycheck calculator is perfect for those who are paid on an hourly basis. 
Life Insurance Ricoh pays for basic life insurance coverage for each employee equal to one times salary, rounded to the next higher $1,000. There is a $10,000 minimum and a $200,000 maximum. Employees may also purchase supplemental life insurance. * Benefit may change without prior notice. Employees who work 30 hours or more are eligible for coverage in Ricoh’s health and welfare plans on the first. of the month coincident with or next following three months of employment. Medical Coverage. Ricoh employees can select an HMO or a PPO medical plan.
The average Ricoh salary ranges from approximately $17,000 per year for Receptionist to $150,000 per year for Forklift Operator. Average Ricoh hourly pay ranges from approximately $9.92 per hour for Customer Service Representative to $21.00 per hour for Site Supervisor. Salary information comes from 314 data points collected directly from employees, users, and jobs on Indeed. 
Compare that with the average $9.15 an hour paid to Chipotle crew members, according to Glassdoor.com. It would be very difficult for investors to complain too much, though, since shares of Chipotle gained 29% in 2014 and is the fast-casual concept to beat this year. But compare that with what the average restaurant and retail CEOs earn. The 13 CEOs of a group of well-known retailers and restaurants haul in an average $5,859 an hour according to a USA TODAY analysis of data from S&P Capital IQ.
As of May 2013, the food-preparation and service industry paid an average hourly wage of $9.08. In a separate BLS category, we find over half a million fast-food cooks who earn, on average, $9.07 an hour. But that varies by industry and state. Cooks in gasoline stations earn, on average, $8.68 per hour, while cooks in grocery stores get $10.02. The San Francisco area has the highest average wages for fast-food workers in the country, but at $12.17 per hour, that falls well short of the $15 demanded by the protesting McDonald’s employees