Urethritis is a condition that affects the urethra. The urethra is the tube that carries urine from the bladder so it can be expelled from the body. Semen also passes through the male urethra. The core cause of urethritis is usually infection. This can cause the urethra to become irritated and inflamed. According to the University of Maryland Medical Center, both males and females can develop urethritis.
Generally, most cases of urethritis can be attributed to a bacteria or a virus. The same bacteria that can cause bladder and kidney infections can also infect the lining of the urethra. Bacteria found naturally in the genital area may also cause urethritis if they enter the urinary tract. Semen also passes through the male urethra. The core cause of urethritis is usually infection. This can cause the urethra to become irritated and inflamed. According to the University of Maryland Medical Center, both males and females can develop urethritis.
Conditions listing medical symptoms: Urethra inflammation: The following list of conditions have ' Urethra inflammation ' or similar listed as a symptom in our database. This computer-generated list may be inaccurate or incomplete. Always seek prompt professional medical advice about the cause of any symptom. 
Urethra inflammation: Introduction. Urethra inflammation: A condition which is characterized by an inflammatory reaction which is located in the urethra. See detailed information below for a list of 1 causes of Urethra inflammation, including diseases and drug side effect causes.
Spermicides or contraceptive jellies, creams, or foams are possible causes of urethritis. Urethritis is inflammation of the urethra and could be caused by bacteria or a virus. Commonly it is caused by bacteria Escherichia coli and some sexually transmitted diseases, Chlamydia, gonorrhea. Gonococcal urethritis is caused by Neisseria gonorrhoeae bacteria. 
Any inflammation of urethra can result in scarring, which then can lead to a stricture or a narrowing of the urethra. Trauma, infection, tumors, surgeries, or any other cause of scarring may lead to urethral narrowing or stricture. 1 Congenital urethral strictures (present at birth) are also considered rare. 2  Any inflammation of the urethra resulting from injury, trauma, previous surgery, or infection can cause urethral stricture. 3  Symptoms of urethral stricture can range from no symptoms at all to complete urinary retention.
Both bacteria and viruses may cause urethritis. The same bacteria that cause urinary tract infections (E. coli) and some sexually transmitted diseases (chlamydia, gonorrhea) can lead to urethritis. Viral causes of urethritis include herpes simplex virus and cytomegalovirus. Other causes include: Urethritis is inflammation (swelling and irritation) of the urethra.
The urethra is a narrow tube that carries urine out of the body. It also carries semen in men. Bacteria, viruses or fungi can cause an infection of the lining of the urethra, also known as urethritis, characterized by burning and painful urination along with unusual discharge from the vagina or the penis.
Urethritis is inflammation of the urethra. That's the tube that carries urine from the bladder to outside the body. Pain with urination is the main symptom of urethritis. Urethritis is commonly due to infection by bacteria. It can typically be cured with antibiotics. Most episodes of urethritis are caused by infection by bacteria that enter the urethra from the skin around the urethra's opening. Bacteria that commonly cause urethritis include: 1  E. coli and other bacteria present in stool. 2  Gonococcus, which is sexually transmitted and causes gonorrhea