By Donna Sundblad. Coffee only has nine calories per cup, but before you sip that hot, steamy brew, it's important to know the relationship between caffeine and weight gain. Drinking coffee or other caffeinated beverages can actually sabotage your efforts to lose weight. 
An Australian study in 2013 found that drinking five cups of coffee a day may make you gain weight, according to an article in the New York Daily News.. The research was conducted using mice and published in the Journal of Agricultural and Food Chemistry.. While high-calorie drinks, such as flavored lattes, cappuccinos and syrupy, blended coffee drinks, can pack on the pounds, even low-calorie drip coffee may cause weight gain.
Is coffee making you fat? If you are overweight and you drink coffee three up to fives times a day, then you will probably assume that coffee is the main cause of your weight issue. Well, most researchers suggests that coffee is indeed fattening, only if you are used to binge coffee drinking. 
The effects of coffee on weight loss don't seem to be enough to radically cause people to gain or lose weight. The best advice is to consume coffee in moderation if desired, and to be aware of the effects it has on you, in order to take advantage of them. Coffee Can Help You Lose Weight. Coffee is very controversial when it comes to weight loss. Some say that it can be of benefit to dieters, while others say that it can be detrimental to a weight loss plan. In fact, coffee most likely has both positive and negative effects on weight loss, depending on how it's consumed and other factors
Good for you. A lot of coffee drinkers don’t even bother considering the possibility that coffee can make you gain weight. Because coffee isn’t a food but a beverage, they hardly think about how it can affect their body. This is a false and risky assumption. How to not gain weight with Coffee. 1. Drink simple coffee – Drink coffee which is as close as possible to its plain form. The more things you add to your coffee, the more calories it is likely to contain. 2.
Caffeine as a Diuretic. Caffeine is a diuretic and only 500 milligrams a day is enough to cause dehydration. Losing weight through diuresis, the removal of fluids from the body, may work for short-term weight loss, but it isn't fat that's gone, only fluids. Using caffeine this way is unhealthy and may lead to a dangerous potassium deficiency. 
Too much coffee and caffeine will only make you gain weight mainly by making you eat too much because…. 1  Caffeine increases the stress hormone cortisol and cortisol increase your cravings for sugary, salty & fatty foods that make you gain weight and…. 
Save. Caffeine in coffee can cause people to gain weight in a few different ways. It can have a negative effect on stress levels, which can make people want to eat more. Because caffeine can keep people awake, it has also been linked with insulin resistance, which leads to storage of fat in the body. Effects on Metabolism. A little bit of caffeine can stimulate your metabolism, which is a positive if you want to lose weight. However, because coffee (and other caffeinated drinks such as tea) is a diuretic, it encourages a loss of water weight, not fat.