If fertilisation doesn't take place, the egg will be flushed out, along with the lining of your uterus, when you have your period. Read more about how babies are made. An average menstrual cycle lasts 28 to 29 days. That's counting from the first day of your period to the day before the next (Fehring et al 2006) . Some women have much shorter cycles, lasting only 22 days, and some have much longer ones, lasting up to 36 days. 
A cycle is counted from the first day of 1 period to the first day of the next period. The average menstrual cycle is 28 days long. Cycles can range anywhere from 21 to 35 days in adults and from 21 to 45 days in young teens. The rise and fall of levels of hormones during the month control the menstrual cycle. A woman becomes pregnant if the egg is fertilized by a man’s sperm cell and attaches to the uterine wall. If the egg is not fertilized, it will break apart. Then, hormone levels drop, and the thickened lining of the uterus is shed during the menstrual period. See how the menstrual cycle works below.
While the average length of a menstrual cycle is 28 days, it is perfectly normal for a cycle to last anywhere from 21 to 35 days. On average, most women have menstrual flow for three to five days but it is very normal to menstruate for as much as seven days. The First Weeks. The first day of your menstrual cycle is the first day of your period. At this time, your estrogen levels are at their lowest which sends a signal to your brain that more FSH is needed. As your body produces more FSH, about 20 egg follicles begin to mature
Your period. The first day of your menstrual cycle is the first day of your period (day 1). The period usually then lasts anything from 3 to 7 days. You’ll probably find that if you get any period pains, they’ll be at their worst in the first few days of your period. Understanding your menstrual cycle. Women’s cycle lengths vary, and the most common cycle length is somewhere between 23 and 35 days. Any variation in menstrual cycle length that does occur is more likely to be during the part of the cycle before you ovulate (which is called the follicular phase).
When you menstruate, your body sheds the lining of the uterus (womb). Menstrual blood flows from the uterus through the small opening in the cervix and passes out of the body through the vagina (see how the menstrual cycle works below). Most menstrual periods last from 3 to 5 days. A woman becomes pregnant if the egg is fertilized by a man’s sperm cell and attaches to the uterine wall. If the egg is not fertilized, it will break apart. Then, hormone levels drop, and the thickened lining of the uterus is shed during the menstrual period. See how the menstrual cycle works below.
A period is made up of blood and the womb lining. The first day of a woman's period is day one of the menstrual cycle. Periods last around three to seven days, and women lose about three to five tablespoons of blood in a period,” says Belfield. 
During the monthly hormone cycle the mucous membranes lining the inside of the uterus prepare for the possibility that an egg might be fertilized and settle in the uterus. The mucous membranes supply nutrients to the embryo if the woman gets pregnant. If the egg cell is not fertilized, it dies. 
The average menstrual cycle lasts for: 26 days. 28 days. 32 days. An average menstrual cycle lasts 28 days-that's counting from the first day of one period to the day before the next. Some women have much shorter cycles, possibly lasting only 23 days, and some have much longer ones, lasting up to 35