Braxton-Hicks contraction, false labor-painless contractions of the muscles of the uterus that continue throughout pregnancy with increasing frequency. vaginismus-muscular contraction that causes the vagina to close; usually an anxiety reaction before coitus or pelvic examination. 
noun. The definition of contraction is the lengthening or shortening of a muscle fiber or a word formed by combining the sounds of two longer words. 1  An example of a contraction is the action of the uterus during the birth process. 2  An example of a contraction is the word doesn't from does not. 
Muscle contraction is the activation of tension-generating sites within muscle fibers. In physiology, muscle contraction does not mean muscle shortening because muscle tension can be produced without changes in muscle length such as holding a heavy book or a dumbbell at the same position. The termination of muscle contraction is followed by muscle relaxation, which is a return of the muscle fibers to their low tension-generating state. Muscle contractions can be described based on two variables: length and tension. A muscle contraction is described as isometric if the muscle tension changes but the muscle length remains the same. In contrast, a muscle contraction is isotonic if muscle length changes but the muscle tension remains the same. Furthermore, if the muscle length shortens, the contraction is concentric
Full Definition of CONTRACTION. 1. a: the action or process of contracting: the state of being contracted b: the shortening and thickening of a functioning muscle or muscle fiber c: a reduction in business activity or growth. : the act or process of making something smaller or of becoming smaller. medical: a movement of a muscle that causes it to become tight and that is sometimes painful; especially: a movement of muscles in the womb when a woman is giving birth to a child. : a short form of a word or word group that is made by leaving out a sound or letter
Types of contractions. When we think of a muscle contracting normally, we tend to think of the muscle shortening as it generates force. While it's true that this is a way of muscle contracting, there are many different ways that a muscle can generate force, as seen in Figure 1 below. Concentric ContractionsMuscle Actively Shortening. When a muscle is activated and required to lift a load which is less than the maximum tetanic tension it can generate, the muscle begins to shorten. Contractions that permit the muscle to shorten are referred to as concentric contractions. An example of a concentric contraction in the raising of a weight during a bicep curl. In concentric contractions, the force generated by the muscle is always less than the muscle's maximum (P o). As the load the muscle is required to lift decreases, contraction velocity increases. This occurs until the muscle finally reaches its maximum contraction velocity, V max. By performing a series of constant velocity shortening contractions, a force-velocity relationship can be determined
muscle contraction. concentric muscle contraction acceleration force generated within contracting agonist muscle tissue, by actin/myosin interaction; agonist muscle force overcomes antagonist muscle resistance, creating a net reduction in length of agonist muscle (see entry above). eccentric muscle contraction deceleration force generated by interaction of actin/myosin of contracting antagonist muscle tissue; antagonist muscle force is insufficient to overcome agonist muscle resistance, creating a net increase in length of antagonist muscle.
muscle contraction. concentric muscle contraction acceleration force generated within contracting agonist muscle tissue, by actin/myosin interaction; agonist muscle force overcomes antagonist muscle resistance, creating a net reduction in length of agonist muscle (see entry above). eccentric muscle contraction deceleration force generated by interaction of actin/myosin of contracting antagonist muscle tissue; antagonist muscle force is insufficient to overcome agonist muscle resistance, creating a net increase in length of antagonist muscle.