Derek Hough (/ˈhʌf/ ; born May 17, 1985) is an American professional Latin and ballroom dancer, choreographer, actor, singer, and songwriter. He is known for his work, since September 2007, on the ABC dance-competition series Dancing with the Stars, on which he has won a record five seasons. Menounos became the second celebrity in Dancing with the Stars history to be eliminated on a night where she came in first place with the judges (the first was Willa Ford in season three). For season 15 (All Stars), Hough was paired with season eight champion, Shawn Johnson.
Allyssa Lee. Meryl and Maks beat out Amy and Derek for Season 18's coveted Mirrorball trophy. After 10 weeks, 11 eliminations, and too many sequins to count, the judges’ scores and viewer votes have been tallied, and we have a “Dancing With the Stars” winner! Season 18’s champs are … Meryl Davis and Maksim Chmerkovskiy! And props to fellow finalists Amy Purdy and Derek Hough and Candace Cameron Bure and Mark Ballas for fighting the good fight, but this was the right choice
For the current season, see Dancing with the Stars (U.S. season 21) . Dancing with the Stars is an American dance competition show airing since 2005 on ABC in the United States, and CTV / CTV Two in Canada. The show is the American version of the British television series Strictly Come Dancing. For the first twenty seasons, Len Goodman served as head judge. Julianne Hough, who was a professional dancing partner (in seasons 4–8), was added as a permanent fourth judge on the panel in season 19, after having been a guest judge in the previous two seasons.
The main judges are Carrie Ann Inaba and Bruno Tonioli. For the first twenty seasons, Len Goodman served as head judge. Julianne Hough, who was a professional dancing partner (in seasons 4–8), was added as a permanent fourth judge on the panel in season 19, after having been a guest judge in the previous two seasons.
For season eleven, Hough won for the third time with actress Jennifer Grey, known for her film roles on Dirty Dancing and Ferris Bueller's Day Off, on November 23, 2010. Hough did not participate in season 12 in order to be a part of the film COBU 3D (later renamed to Make your Move 3D). Menounos became the second celebrity in Dancing with the Stars history to be eliminated on a night where she came in first place with the judges (the first was Willa Ford in season three). For season 15 (All Stars), Hough was paired with season eight champion, Shawn Johnson.
Senior Writer, BuddyTV. Add as BuddyTV Friend ». I hope you have your dancing shoes on, because Dancing with the Stars is back for its 19th season. This year has a few new twists, but still the same old feel as celebrities and professionals team up to Jive, Cha-Cha and Foxtrot into our living rooms. DWTS season 19 brings in Julianne Hough as the new permanent fourth judge. Whether you like her or not, it's definitely better than the endless parade of unqualified buffoons from last year (I'm looking at you, Redfoo).
Season twenty-one of Dancing with the Stars premiered on September 14, 2015. 
Best Answer: Yes, DWTS has two season per year. This fall will be season 7. The fall season begins in September and ends in November while the spring season begins in March and ends in May. 
0 0 0. The professional dancers on Dancing With the Stars give up their lives for the show, working up to 10 weeks of air time, plus about a month of pre-season rehearsals. 
Dancing With the Stars has been on syndication since 2005. It's  first episode was aired on ABC on June 5th. The show has had 19  seasons so far with a season airing on both … the spring and winter  TV season. The 19th season began on September 19th, 2014. 1 LED TVs are LCD TVs with an alternative backlighting system. 2  The traditional backlighting system for LCD u…. 3  The Best DWTS Cast You've Ever Seen The one and only Bill Nye the Science Guy will be taking the floor on this season of Dancing With the Stars. He'll be paired with Tyne Stecklein. 4  It was only a matter of….