spanish med style. right now we have 10 ft ceilings throughout. we stepped them up to 12 feet in the master bedroom and study. and our family room is double volume 22 ft i believe. it is an open floor plan 5 br with a second floor that has 3br and 2 bath. (for our kids) at 9 ft ceilings. 
It is also true that the average height of people has increased since the days of 8' ceiling height was a standard, I have heard it said that the average male is 4 inches taller than his grandfather. This being a reason that the standard height of bath vanities at 30 is increasing to 32 and higher. 
Housing for well-to-do Georgians and Victorians was built on elegant lines. Ceilings were high; windows tall. An average ceiling height in one of these homes might be 3.6 to 4.25m/12 to 14 feet. The drawback to such high ceilings is that heat rises. Heating high-ceilinged homes can be expensive. 
One question we hear often is How tall should ceilings be in my new home?. Ceiling Height in New Homes - 8 Ft or 9 Ft? What Ceiling Height is Considered Standard? Many custom home builders charge extra to increase ceiling height from 8 ft to 9 ft on the first floor. 
A home with a 2.4 ceiling height, a normal roof slope of around 27 degrees and standard 450mm eaves would result in the eaves lining being directly on top of the window head as shown below. 
1 Basement Ceiling: The average basement ceiling is 8 to 9 feet tall. 2  To make your basement feel more open and like the rest of your house consider 10-foot ceilings. 3  You will pay a little more but at the end you will be happy you did it! 
The standard ceiling height can vary from place to place, and over time. In the 1970's, the average ceiling height was 7 feet 9 inches. Today, a standard ceiling height is nine feet on the first floor and eight on the second. Upscale houses have a standard ceiling height of 10 to 12 feet. The trend for the past 30 years is for higher ceilings. 
Since the framing height is 8 feet and 1-1/8 inches, the typical  height of a conventional residential home's ceiling will be 1/8  shy of eight feet, or seven feet, eleven and seven-eighths inches. (a) Every … habitable room and bathroom shall have a minimum ceiling height of not less than 7 feet, 0 inches for a minimum of 50 percent of the room's floor area. The remaining area may have a ceiling with a minimum height of 5 feet, 0 inches. Minimum height under dropped ducts, beams, etc. shall be 6 feet, 4 inches. (b) Hallways and foyers shall have a minimum ceiling height of 6 feet, 6
I don't know the average height of basement ceilings. Mine before ceiling was installed was about 7'11. After ceiling grid was installed, it is around 7'10. I used a celing grid system called ceiling link. 