Lemurs are generally the most social of the strepsirrhine primates and communicate more with scents and vocalizations than with visual signals. Many lemur adaptations are in response to Madagascar's highly seasonal environment. Lemurs have relatively low basal metabolic rates and may exhibit seasonal breeding, dormancy (such as hibernation or torpor), or female social dominance. Most eat a wide variety of fruits and leaves, while some are specialists.
Lemurs' habitat is the forest, and they use their long tail for balance as they jum … p between trees, and also for communicating with each other.   Additional Info: There are 60 sub-species of the primate Lemur, and 88 different species divided into five surviving families. In captivity, Ring-tailed Lemurs (Lemur catta) can have twins or singletons (1-2 babies). Twins are quite common.    In the wild, singletons (1 baby) is more common. Tw … ins tend to be born during years of food abundance. + 20 others found this useful.
The term is generically used for the members of the four lemuriform families, but it is also the genus of one of the lemuriform species, the Ring-tailed Lemur (Lemur catta). The two so-called flying lemur species, that are also called colugos, are not lemurs or even primates. Lemurs make up the infraorder Lemuriformes and are members of a group of primates known as prosimians. The term lemur is derived from the Latin word lemures, meaning spirits of the night or ghosts.
Ring-tailed lemurs typically have a single offspring in the wild (during normal conditions). However, during especially good years, when there is a surplus of food, they will … often give birth to two offspring. In captivity, where conditions almost always mimic good years in the wild, twins are fairly common. In captivity, Ring-tailed Lemurs (Lemur catta) can have twins or singletons (1-2 babies). Twins are quite common.    In the wild, singletons (1 baby) is more common. Tw … ins tend to be born during years of food abundance. + 20 others found this useful.
The ring-tailed lemur (Lemur catta) is a large strepsirrhine primate and the most recognized lemur due to its long, black and white ringed tail. It belongs to Lemuridae, one of five lemur families, and is the only member of the Lemur genus. Like all lemurs it is endemic to the island of Madagascar. 
Lemur catta, also known as the ring-tailed lemur, is a primate native to Madagascar. “Lemur” comes from the Latin word lemurs, meaning “ghosts”. It is called “ring-tailed” because of its distinctive alternating black and white bands along the tail. L. catta is one of the most well-known and recognizable species of lemurs.
In captivity, Ring-tailed Lemurs (Lemur catta) can have twins or singletons (1-2 babies). Twins are quite common.    In the wild, singletons (1 baby) is more common. Tw … ins tend to be born during years of food abundance. The word lemur comes from the Latin word lemures, which referred to specters or ghosts that were exorcised during the Roman festival of Lemuria. The word was first used b … y Carl Linnaeus to describe lorises, close cousins of lemurs.
Ring-tailed lemurs also spend a lot of time on the ground, which is unusual among lemur species. They forage for fruit, which makes up the greater part of their diet, but also eat leaves, flowers, tree bark, and sap. 
A baby lemur is called a infant. Lemurs make up the infraorder Lemuriformes and are members of a group of primates known as prosimians. The term lemur is derived from the Latin word lemures, meaning spirits of the night or ghosts. This likely refers to their large, reflective eyes and the wailing cries of some species (the Indri in particular)
Today, there are nearly 100 species of lemurs, and most of those species have been discovered or promoted to full species status since the 1990s; however, lemur taxonomic classification is controversial and depends on which species concept is used. Many lemur adaptations are in response to Madagascar's highly seasonal environment. Lemurs have relatively low basal metabolic rates and may exhibit seasonal breeding, dormancy (such as hibernation or torpor), or female social dominance. Most eat a wide variety of fruits and leaves, while some are specialists.