Because it's based on many factors -- including the capacity of the borrower to pay back the loan, the credit history of the borrower, and any collateral the prospective buyer may be offering -- the process of underwriting, or determining the eligibility of a prospective client, can take from 48 hours to two weeks.
Loan Underwriting Rationale. Underwriting is used by a mortgage lender to verify a borrower's finances and examine the home being bought. Underwriting is also the way that a mortgage lender ensures it's not funding an overly risky loan.
If you went with a bank or bank branch they usually take a very long time to close (45-60 days and more). If you went with a mortgage broker, depending on which lender he/she put your through, the underwriting process can vary anywhere from 1 day to 1 week with the whole loan process taking 20-30 days.
Time is of the essence when buying a new home, so sticking to timeframes can mean the difference between closing or the deal falling through. Underwriting, the process by which a mortgage lender analyzes your home loan application for final loan approval, has a lot of bearing on whether your loan closes on time.
They do this to determine whether or not you're a good candidate for a loan. As a whole, this process is referred to as mortgage underwriting, and it has many steps. Basically, the lender wants to assess your ability and willingness to repay the loan. Willingness is a bit hard to measure.
Also, the appraisal submitted for a mortgage loan applicant's hoped-for home could be too low, thereby delaying the underwriter's loan approval. Lastly, a mortgage underwriter might need an applicant to submit additional documentation in support of her application, also slowing down mortgage
A similarly nerve-wracking period for a mortgage borrower occurs when the loan is in underwriting, as lender scrutiny of mortgage applications is called. In mortgage underwriting, the lender puts its borrower's loan application, any financial documents the borrower supplies and the home appraisal under the microscope. Though time varies, the mortgage underwriting process typically ranges from a few days to a few weeks, on average.