Allspice is one of the most important ingredients of Caribbean cuisine. It is used in Caribbean jerk seasoning (the wood is used to smoke jerk in Jamaica, although the spice is a good substitute), in moles, and in pickling; it is also an ingredient in commercial sausage preparations and curry powders. Allspice is the dried fruit of the P. dioica plant. The fruits are picked when green and unripe and are traditionally dried in the sun. When dry, they are brown and resemble large brown smooth peppercorns.
The name 'allspice' was coined as early as 1621 by the English, who thought it combined the flavour of cinnamon, nutmeg, and cloves. Several unrelated fragrant shrubs are called Carolina allspice (Calycanthus floridus), Japanese allspice (Chimonanthus praecox), or wild allspice (Lindera benzoin). Allspice is also sometimes used to refer to the herb costmary (Tanacetum balsamita). Allspice is the dried fruit of the P. dioica plant. The fruits are picked when green and unripe and are traditionally dried in the sun. When dry, they are brown and resemble large brown smooth peppercorns.
Allspice is a spice that is the dried unripe fruit of Pimenta dioica also called allspice tree. Allspice is popularly used in food preparation for its cinnamon – nutmeg – cloves flavor and scent. Allspice tree is a mid-canopy, tropical evergreen native to southern Mexico, Central America and West Indies. Allspice fruit is dried under the sun and are powdered when used. Allspice is the dried fruit of the Pimenta dioica plant. The fruit is picked when it is green and unripe and, traditionally, dried in the sun. The leaves and wood are often used for smoking meats where allspice is a local crop. Allspice can also be found in essential oil form
Allspice takes its name from its aroma, which smells like a combination of spices, especially cinnamon, cloves, ginger and nutmeg. In much of the world, allspice is called pimento because the Spanish mistook the fruit for black pepper, which the Spanish called pimienta. Allspice is the only spice that is grown exclusively in the Western Hemisphere. The evergreen tree that produces the allspice berries is indigenous to the rainforests of South and Central America where it grows wild. Unfortunately the wild trees were cut down to harvest the berries and few remain today.
ALLSPICE Overview Information. Allspice is a plant. The unripe berries and leaves of the plant are used to make medicine. Allspice is used for indigestion (dyspepsia), intestinal gas, abdominal pain, heavy menstrual periods, vomiting, diarrhea, fever, colds, high blood pressure, diabetes, and obesity. It is also used for emptying the bowels. Allspice is safe for most adults when used as a spice. However, there is not enough information available to know if allspice is safe in medicinal amounts. When applied directly to the skin, allspice can cause allergic skin reactions in sensitive people.
Allspice, also known popularly as Jamaican pepper or pimento, is one of the widely used spice in the Mexican and other Central American cuisines. This spice corn actually is a dried unripe fruit obtained from an evergreen tropical shrub belonging to the Myrtaceae family, in the genus: pimento. 