Some people with hepatitis B or C may also become lifelong carriers of these viruses and can spread them to other people. 1  For hepatitis A, the incubation period is 2 to 6 weeks. 2  For hepatitis B, the incubation period is between 4 and 20 weeks. 3  For hepatitis C, it's estimated that the incubation period is 2 to 26 weeks. The hepatitis C virus (HCV) is spread through contact with infected  blood and, most likely, needle stick injuries.   You can contract Hep. C from bodily fluids to body f … luids (sex), or  sharing needles (drug users this means YOU).
The incubation period is. Hepatitis C, Chronic Guide to Surveillance and Investigation Last Revised: December 23, 2013 Florida Department of Health Page 4 of 10 estimated to average six to seven weeks but has been shown to have a range of two weeks to six months. 
Hepatitis C. The incubation period for hepatitis C virus (HCV) is 15-150 days, with symptoms developing anywhere from 5-12 weeks after exposure. During acute HCV infection, symptoms may appear similar to those of HBV infection. In up to 80% of cases, however, patients are asymptomatic and do not develop icterus. The incubation period for hepatitis B virus (HBV) is 30-180 days (average, approximately 75 days). Patients then enter the prodromal or preicteric phase, characterized by the gradual onset of anorexia, malaise, and fatigue.
1 For hepatitis A, the incubation period is 2 to 6 weeks. 2  For hepatitis B, the incubation period is between 4 and 20 weeks. 3  For hepatitis C, it's estimated that the incubation period is 2 to 26 weeks. The hepatitis C virus (HCV) is spread through contact with infected  blood and, most likely, needle stick injuries.   You can contract Hep. C from bodily fluids to body f … luids (sex), or  sharing needles (drug users this means YOU).
After 4 to 12 weeks (on average), hepatitis B symptoms can begin. This period between hepatitis B transmission and the start of hepatitis B symptoms is called the hepatitis B incubation period.. The hepatitis B incubation period can be as short as 30 days or as long as 180 days. This incubation period is dependent of the number of virus particles a person is exposed to. The period between transmission of the hepatitis B virus and the beginning of symptoms of hepatitis B -- which is known as the hepatitis B incubation period -- lasts between 30 and 180 days.
Hepatitis A. The incubation period of hepatitis A virus (HAV) is 2-7 weeks (average, 28 days). Clinical symptoms then develop, often with a presentation similar to that of gastroenteritis or a viral respiratory infection. The incubation period for hepatitis B virus (HBV) is 30-180 days (average, approximately 75 days). Patients then enter the prodromal or preicteric phase, characterized by the gradual onset of anorexia, malaise, and fatigue.
After four weeks (on average), symptoms of hepatitis A can appear. This period between transmission of the virus and the start of symptoms is called the hepatitis A incubation period.. This can be as short as 15 days or as long as 45 days. The incubation period is dependent on the number of virus particles consumed. 
The incubation period of hepatitis E virus (HEV) is 2-9 weeks (average, 45 days). HEV usually causes an acute self-limited disease similar to HASV infection. Fulminant disease does occur in about 10% of cases. In women who are pregnant, HEV infection has a case-fatality rate of 15-20%. The incubation period for hepatitis B virus (HBV) is 30-180 days (average, approximately 75 days). Patients then enter the prodromal or preicteric phase, characterized by the gradual onset of anorexia, malaise, and fatigue.
A person is contagious during the hepatitis D incubation period. Someone who is infected with hepatitis D begins to be contagious early in the incubation period. The point at … which a person is thought to be most contagious is right before symptoms begin. The hepatitis C virus (HCV) is spread through contact with infected  blood and, most likely, needle stick injuries.   You can contract Hep. C from bodily fluids to body f … luids (sex), or  sharing needles (drug users this means YOU).