Separate the header and footer from the main text, for example with a line or a containing box. Header. The simplest form of header is to include just you name. There is no need to say 'Resume' or 'Curriculum Vitae' as this is obvious and adds no value. Make this stand out with a bold, slightly larger font (no need to make it huge).
Step 1. - Resume Header. Your resume header is the top portion of your resume that tells the reader who you are, where you live, and where they can contact you to come in for an interview. Choose whatever word processing software you will be using and open up to a blank page to begin. For the header you will want to include your name, address, city/state/zip, phone number and email address. When we write our resumes, we center all of the information. We recommend that your name be a bit larger in font size then then the address and the rest
BUT recruiters sometimes cut and paste from your electronic document by doing select-all and pasting into a data system, in which case the header and footer may not be selected. The solution is not to use the wordprocessor header and footer but to create your own within the page. This means shrinking the wordprocessor header and footer space and expanding the normal page space. Header. The simplest form of header is to include just you name. There is no need to say 'Resume' or 'Curriculum Vitae' as this is obvious and adds no value. Make this stand out with a bold, slightly larger font (no need to make it huge).
Providing your information (name, address, contact information, email address, etc) in the header is essential for those who have more than one page to their resume. Adding the word continued in the footer and the applicant's last name is a great way to connect the pages of a longer resume. Resume headers and footers are not necessary at all within resumes that are only one page in length given that all applicant information is in the heading of the resume. (Resume Design by CharlotWest licensed by CC BY-SA 2.0). Become a member to take advantage of more features, like commenting and voting.
7. You list your experience instead of your accomplishments. There is one goal for your resume: To show a potential employer why you are the best person for the job. However, there are so many things that can get in the way of what should be a clear message. Here are ten of the most common mistakes made in resumes. (Using Word's header feature will make your name appear automatically at the top of every page of your resume.) The problem is a lot of scanning software used by HR departments won't work on headers and footers so your resume could get lost in the shuffle.
Don't Put Your Name in the Header of Your Resume Document. In the course of reviewing lots of resumes, here's a mistake I see many job seekers make: They put their names and contact information in the header function of the resume document. Yes, your name and contact info should be at the top of your resume, but not in the header function of the document. 
On one hand, including headers and footers can help job seekers who may have resumes of more than one page in length. However, due to variations in software use from company to company, many resume headers and footers can be lost in translation. Resume headers and footers are not necessary at all within resumes that are only one page in length given that all applicant information is in the heading of the resume. (Resume Design by CharlotWest licensed by CC BY-SA 2.0). Become a member to take advantage of more features, like commenting and voting.
Answers. Best Answer: A resume footer would not be applicable to an acting resume. A resume footer is where you put your last name and the page number on the bottom of each page of your resume. It helps the reader in the case of an unbound resume-so they know who the pages belong to and in what order they go. An acting resume is only one page, so you don't need to put a footer on it. Your resume should fit on one side of an 8x10 piece of paper. Best of luck to you.