Choose Strength for: Pradaxa-Brand Version. The lowest prices for Pradaxa from online pharmacies and prescription discount cards! Before you buy Pradaxa, compare the best prices on Pradaxa from licensed, top-rated pharmacies in the U.S., Canada, and internationally. Find the lowest cost Pradaxa from the best pharmacy. 
Copyright ©2015 GoodRx, Inc. GoodRx is not sponsored by or affiliated with any of the pharmacies identified in its price comparisons. All trademarks, brands, logos and copyright images are property of their respective owners and rights holders and are used solely to represent the products of these rights holders. GoodRx's cash prices are based on multiple sources, including published price lists, purchases, claims records, and data provided by pharmacies. Our discount and coupon prices are based on contracts between a pharmacy (or pharmacy purchasing group) and a Pharmacy Benefit Manager (PBM), who provides prices to us.
Pradaxa is a direct thrombin inhibitor. It works by keeping the platelets in your blood from coagulating or clotting. It reduces the risk of stroke and blood clot formation in patients with atrial fibrillation, which is the most common abnormal heart rhythm. The average Pradaxa cost is $338 for 60 capsules. Fortunately, there are many available Pradaxa patient assistance options. Just click the Pradaxa manufacturer coupon link to get the Pradaxa savings card and pay no more than $10 co-pay, or call 1-800-243-0127 if you have further questions.
PRADAXA is used to: 1  reduce the risk of stroke and blood clots in people who have a medical condition called atrial fibrillation not caused by a heart valve problem. 2  treat blood clots in the veins of your legs (deep vein thrombosis) or lungs (pulmonary embolism) and reduce the risk of them occurring again. 1 reduce the risk of stroke and blood clots in people who have a medical condition called atrial fibrillation not caused by a heart valve problem. 2  With atrial fibrillation, part of the heart does not beat the way it should.
PRADAXA is used to: 1  reduce the risk of stroke and blood clots in people who have a medical condition called atrial fibrillation not caused by a heart valve problem. 2  With atrial fibrillation, part of the heart does not beat the way it should. 3  This can lead to blood clots forming and increase your risk of a stroke. 1
Waiting for the Antidote: The Journey of Idarucizumab as a Potential Specific Reversal Agent for Dabigatran (Pradaxa). The hepatitis C genotype 1 paradox: Cost per treatment is increasing, but cost per cure is decreasing. Significant attention has been focused on the perceived increase in the cost of antiviral treatment for hepatitis C genotype 1 infection since the approval of the first direct-acting antiviral agents ...
Boehringer scores trial success for Pradaxa antidote. Bosses at Boehringer Ingelheim say the latest results of a study of idarucizumab, and antidote for its blockbuster blood-thinner Pradaxa, should quell lingering concerns about the safety of the drug. ... The hepatitis C genotype 1 paradox: Cost per treatment is increasing, but cost per cure is decreasing. Significant attention has been focused on the perceived increase in the cost of antiviral treatment for hepatitis C genotype 1 infection since the approval of the first direct-acting antiviral agents ...
RIDGEFIELD, Conn. — A drug used to prevent stroke in patients with a form of atrial fibrillation has won preferred Tier 2 formulary status with pharmacy benefit managers Medco Health Solutions and CVS Caremark. Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals announced Monday that CVS Caremark and Medco had added Pradaxa (dabigatran etexilate mesylate) capsules to their commercial preferred drug lists, and Medco had added the drug to its Part D drug list.
Copyright ©2015 GoodRx, Inc. GoodRx is not sponsored by or affiliated with any of the pharmacies identified in its price comparisons. All trademarks, brands, logos and copyright images are property of their respective owners and rights holders and are used solely to represent the products of these rights holders. GoodRx is not offering advice, recommending or endorsing any specific prescription drug, pharmacy or other information on the site. GoodRx provides no warranty for any of the pricing data or other information. Please seek medical advice before starting, changing or terminating any medical treatment.
DABIGATRAN is an anticoagulant (blood thinner). It is used to lower the chance of stroke in people with a medical condition called atrial fibrillation. It is also used to treat or prevent blood clots in the lungs or in the veins. GoodRx is not offering advice, recommending or endorsing any specific prescription drug, pharmacy or other information on the site. GoodRx provides no warranty for any of the pricing data or other information. Please seek medical advice before starting, changing or terminating any medical treatment.