SHARES. Ideas for Elon Musk 's high-speed Hyperloop train are blazing ahead in full open source fashion. Argodesign is the latest to add its vision to the fray, with the technology product design firm publishing its own take on what the high-speed transportation system could look like. Argo's concept outlines four modular capsules attached to what it calls the Hyperloop Sled.. Each of these capsules is removable. At departure and arrival, they would be lifted off the Hyperloop Sled by technology similar to that used in advanced, automated parking garages popular in Japan.
This week, SpaceX founder and billionaire Elon Musk (who also founded electric vehicle manufacturer Tesla Motors) released his vision for a futuristic transportation system. Called hyperloop, it’s supposed to be better than flying supersonic over short distances. 
The Official SpaceX Hyperloop Pod Competition. Since we first unveiled the idea for a new high-speed ground transport system called the Hyperloop back in 2013, there has been a tremendous amount of interest in the concept. For this reason, SpaceX is announcing an open competition, geared towards university students and independent engineering teams, to design and build the best Hyperloop pod. To support this competition, SpaceX will construct a one-mile test track adjacent to our Hawthorne, California headquarters.
View full size image. The Hyperloop, a hypothetical high-speed transportation system that could shuttle people between Los Angeles and San Francisco in only 30 minutes, just sped a bit closer to reality. 
It is a reaction to the California High-speed Rail system currently under development, a bullet train system that Musk feels is lackluster, as it will be one of the most expensive and slow-moving in the world. A one way trip between San Francisco and Los Angeles on the Hyperloop is projected to take about 35 minutes. Musk’s Hyperloop consists of two massive tubes stretching between San Francisco and Los Angeles. 
The steel tubes are rendered transparent in this image. The Hyperloop is a conceptual high-speed transportation system put forward by entrepreneur Elon Musk, incorporating reduced-pressure tubes in which pressurized capsules ride on an air cushion driven by linear induction motors and air compressors. 
Neither SpaceX nor Elon Musk is affiliated with any Hyperloop companies. While we are not developing a commercial Hyperloop ourselves, we are interested in helping to accelerate development of a functional Hyperloop prototype. For this reason, SpaceX is announcing an open competition, geared towards university students and independent engineering teams, to design and build the best Hyperloop pod. To support this competition, SpaceX will construct a one-mile test track adjacent to our Hawthorne, California headquarters.
| Video. Tesla and SpaceX founder Elon Musk says he has an idea for a new, high speed form of transportation called Hyperloop. 
10 photos: Hyperloop vs. the world's fastest trains – The proposed Hyperloop high-speed transport system would ferry passengers between Los Angeles and San Francisco in about 30 minutes, according to entrepreneur Elon Musk. This sketch shows what a passenger capsule might look like. Hyperloop vs. the world's fastest trains – Elon Musk, CEO of SpaceX and Tesla Motors, says he was inspired to promote Hyperloop after being disappointed with high-speed rail plans in California. He released his plans online so that anyone could access and improve them.