(See Agnote DAI-15 Feeding calves in drought-June 1999) Calf age at weaning Calves are generally weaned between 8-10 months of age. The actual age depends on several factors: Feed availability-cows can continue lactation without losing condition in good years, but early weaning should be considered in drier years. If not, early weaning is an option if the calves are fed to achieve the required weight gain After weaning, cattle destined for feedlots requiring marbling should be grown at a moderate rate - 0.6-0.8kg/day-to achieve the required feedlot entry weights.
1 In the eastern parts of the country calves born during spring can be weaned early in May at the age of about 7 to 8 months. 2  In the more western parts of the country calves can be weaned late in May or early June at the age of about 7 to 8 months as the breeding season tends to be later in these areas. 1 During years of drought and poor feed supply, calves should be weaned early (about 6 months), to allow the cow to recover before the onset of winter.
Calves are generally weaned between 8-10 months of age. The actual age depends on several factors: 1  Feed availability-cows can continue lactation without losing condition in good years, but early weaning should be considered in drier years. 2  Condition and age of Cow-cow condition is a key factor to joining success. If not, early weaning is an option if the calves are fed to achieve the required weight gain After weaning, cattle destined for feedlots requiring marbling should be grown at a moderate rate - 0.6-0.8kg/day-to achieve the required feedlot entry weights.
Most calves are weaned between 120 and 290 days (3 to 10 months) after birth, but most producers like to wean their calves when they're around 205 (6 months) of age. Weight is also a factor, with the minimum being generally around 132lb (60kg). 1 Calves may have to be weaned when they are at least 120 days of age, early enough so they don't pull their dams down too much. 2  Kick the cows out to rougher pasture (or supplement them with grass hay or more marginal feeds) while you keep the calves on better pasture until sale time.
If a newborn calf is unable to nurse its dam, use of a surrogate cow may be the best way to raise the calf until weaning. Bottle-fed calves can be weaned after one month of age, while calves nursing cows are weaned between 3 and 8 months of age. It is usually best to wean at the older age. For comparing weight of calves weaned at different ages, a 205-day weaning weight is sometimes calculated. This “205-day WW” is the calf weight adjusted for birth date and weaning date, and does not infer that calves should necessarily be weaned at that age. 
Traditionally, calves are weaned at six to seven months of age. In typical spring calving herds in the northern Great Plains, this is usually October or November. However, during drought, forage is generally limiting and early weaning should be considered as a management tool. Early weaned calves can achieve adequate rates of growth if given access to a high quality ration. By the time calves are 3 to 4 months of age, they are consuming significant amounts of forage. At 6 to 7 months of age, calves will consume approximately half the amount of forage as a mature cow.
1 Calves are ideally weaned when they are 7 to 8 months old. 2  The right time to wean a calf depends on the condition of the cow and not the age of the calf. 3  Calves should be weaned before the condition score of the cow falls below 2,5 if adequate winter feed is available and the cows maintain their condition. 1 During years of drought and poor feed supply, calves should be weaned early (about 6 months), to allow the cow to recover before the onset of winter.
Weaning an orphan calf that you have raised and nurtured for the past few months can be and emotional strain on both you and the calf. The calf will complain a fair bit during the weaning process but you must be diligent and stubborn. 1  Bottle calves should be weaned by the time they are around 3 to 4 months of age. 1 Calves may have to be weaned when they are at least 120 days of age, early enough so they don't pull their dams down too much. 2  Kick the cows out to rougher pasture (or supplement them with grass hay or more marginal feeds) while you keep the calves on better pasture until sale time.
1 In the more western parts of the country calves can be weaned late in May or early June at the age of about 7 to 8 months as the breeding season tends to be later in these areas. 1 During years of drought and poor feed supply, calves should be weaned early (about 6 months), to allow the cow to recover before the onset of winter.
Calves can be ready for weaning by 3 to 4 weeks of age; however, in Penn State studies calves weaned at 3 weeks required extra attention. The increased time and labor required to get these calves eating starter suggest that waiting until 4 weeks of age would be prudent. Calves weaned at 3 weeks were fed exactly the same in these two trials. In addition, calves were fed a high quality, free-choice calf starter (22% protein on a dry matter basis) with special attention to assisting calves to eat if they had not begun consuming starter by 5 days of age.