Methyl salicylate. Methyl salicylate (oil of wintergreen or wintergreen oil) is an organic ester naturally produced by many species of plants, particularly wintergreens. It is also synthetically produced, used as a fragrance, in foods and beverages, and in liniments. Methyl salicylate can be produced by esterifying salicylic acid with methanol. Commercial methyl salicylate is now synthesized, but in the past, it was commonly distilled from the twigs of Betula lenta (sweet birch) and Gaultheria procumbens (eastern teaberry or wintergreen) .
Wintergreen essential oil is usually obtained by steam distillation of the leaves of the plant following maceration in warm water. Methyl salicylate is not present in the plant until formed by enzymatic action from a glycoside within the leaves as they are macerated in warm water. Oil of wintergreen is also manufactured from some species of birch, but these deciduous trees are not called wintergreens. Spiraea plants also contain methyl salicylate in large amounts and are used similarly to wintergreen.
Wintergreen is safe in the amounts found in foods, and seems safe for most adults when used as a medicine. The oil is UNSAFE to take by mouth. Taking wintergreen oil or large amounts of wintergreen leaf can cause ringing in the ears, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, headache, stomach pain, and confusion. When applied directly to the skin, wintergreen oil can cause skin irritation. Some people use small doses of wintergreen oil to increase stomach juices and improve digestion. Wintergreen leaf is sometimes applied directly to the skin as a wash for achy joints (rheumatism), sore muscles, and lower back pain. Wintergreen oil is applied to the skin as a “counterirritant” to relieve muscle pain.
Wintergreen is an herb. Wintergreen oil is made by steam processing of warmed, water-soaked wintergreen leaves. The leaves and oil are used to make medicine. Wintergreen leaf is used for painful conditions including headache, nerve pain (particularly sciatica), arthritis, ovarian pain, and menstrual cramps. Some people use small doses of wintergreen oil to increase stomach juices and improve digestion. Wintergreen leaf is sometimes applied directly to the skin as a wash for achy joints (rheumatism), sore muscles, and lower back pain. Wintergreen oil is applied to the skin as a “counterirritant” to relieve muscle pain.
Wintergreen. The town of Wintergreen is mostly comprised of Wintergreen Resort, a four-season mountain retreat in the eastern slopes of the Blue Ridge Mountains. Visitors to Wintergreen can enjoy golfing, skiing, mountain climbing, hiking, biking, and a number of the Resort's award-winning facilities. See All.
Wintergreen Resort is a four-season mountain retreat on the eastern slopes of the Blue Ridge Mountains. It is a Mountain Top resort in which all of the amenities are built on the peaks and ridges, rather than at the base like a traditional ski resort. 
Wintergreen Essential Oil contains 85-99% of methyl salicylate the same active ingredient as birch and is beneficial in massage for soothing head tension and muscles after exercising. This is a key oil in the Raindrop Technique. Today, true Wintergreen Essential Oil is not commonly used because the British School of Aromatherapy advises that is should not be used. However, I have to tell you, that I NEVER have had ANY problems using it. As a matter of fact, it is one of the oils used during