The plant turmeric (Curcuma longa) is very well known in India. The root is harvested, cleaned, dried, and powdered to be used as a spice (turmeric gives curry its beautiful golden yellow color) and as a medicine. Traditionally, turmeric was used for nearly every health condition known-from smallpox to a sprained ankle. 
At this time, there isn't enough evidence to recommend curcumin for preventing or treating cancer, but research is ongoing. Curcumin, a substance found in the spice turmeric, has long been used in Asian medicine to treat a variety of maladies. Now some research suggests that curcumin may help prevent or treat cancer. Curcumin is thought to have antioxidant properties, which means it may decrease swelling and inflammation. 
Curcumin, is an anti-inflammatory molecule in the turmeric root, a relative of ginger. Turmeric has been used for thousands of years as a medicinal preparation and a preservative and coloring agent in foods. Curcumin was isolated as the major yellow pigment in turmeric; chemically diferulomethane, and has a polyphenolic molecular structure similar to other plant pigments (eg.
Turmeric also has been used for centuries in traditional Indian and Chinese medicine. Usually mixed into ointments, it's a go-to for stomach and bowel problems, arthritis, and fatigue. The compound in turmeric thought to help with these conditions is curcumin. 
Overview. Turmeric (Curcuma longa) has been used for 4,000 years to treat a variety of conditions. Studies show that turmeric may help fight infections and some cancers, reduce inflammation, and treat digestive problems. Many studies have taken place in test tubes and animals. Turmeric is widely used in cooking and gives Indian curry its flavor and yellow color. It is also used in mustard and to color butter and cheese. Turmeric has been used in both Ayurvedic and Chinese medicine as an anti-inflammatory, to treat digestive and liver problems, skin diseases, and wounds.
Curcumin (also known as curcuminoids or phenolic compounds) is the active ingredient in turmeric. The largest issue with curcumin products is its bioavailability. This refers to how much of the substance actually gets absorbed into your blood stream. Turmeric is a spice from the root of the curcuma longa plant which is in the ginger family. It’s used as a spice, a dye, and as a medicine in many Southeast Asian cultures, especially in Ayurvedic medicine. It can be taken in many forms from capsules and liquids, powders like Organic Turmeric from Banyan Botanicals
1 Curcumin—a derivative of turmeric, and the pigment that gives the curry spice turmeric its yellow-orange color—has been extensively researched. 2  Curcumin appears to be universally useful for just about every type of cancer, and has the most evidence-based literature supporting its use against cancer of any nutrient. Unfortunately, while there's some curcumin in whole turmeric, there's not enough in the regular spice to achieve clinically relevant results. The turmeric root itself contains only about three percent curcumin concentration. Another major limitation of curcumin as a therapeutic agent is that it is poorly absorbed.
TURMERIC Overview Information. Turmeric is a plant. You probably know turmeric as the main spice in curry. It has a warm, bitter taste and is frequently used to flavor or color curry powders, mustards, butters, and cheeses. But the root of turmeric is also used widely to make medicine. Turmeric is used for arthritis, heartburn (dyspepsia), stomach pain, diarrhea, intestinal gas, stomach bloating, loss of appetite, jaundice, liver problems and gallbladder disorders
Curcumin can be used for boron quantification in the curcumin method. It reacts with boric acid to form a red-color compound, rosocyanine. Curcumin is a bright-yellow color and may be used as a food coloring.