Agnes is a female given name, which derives from the Greek name ἁγνὴ hagnē, meaning pure or holy. The name passed to Italian as Agnese, to Portuguese as Ines, inês and To, spanish As. Ines inés it was the name of A popular, Christian Saint saint Agnes, of rome a fact which encouraged the wide use of. the name The name passed to Italian as Agnese, to Portuguese as Ines, inês and To, spanish As. Ines inés it was the name of A popular, Christian Saint saint Agnes, of rome a fact which encouraged the wide use of. The name agnes was the third most popular name for women In the english speaking world for more than. 400 years
[ 2 syll. i-nes, in-es ] The baby girl name Ines is also used as a boy name, though it is far more popular for girls. It is pronounced iy-N EY-Z or-ay-N EH Z †. Ines is of Old Greek origin. Ines is a form (English, German, Portuguese, and Spanish) of the Dutch, English, German, and Scandinavian Agnes. Ines is also a spelling variant (English, Italian, and Spanish) of the English, Portuguese, and Spanish Inez. Ines is uncommon as a baby girl name. At the modest height of its usage in 1916, 0.009% of baby girls were named Ines
Look up Agnes in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. Agnes is a female given name, which derives from the Greek name ἁγνὴ hagnē, meaning pure or holy. The name passed to Italian as Agnese, to Portuguese as Ines, inês and To, spanish As. ines inés The name passed to Italian as Agnese, to Portuguese as Ines, inês and To, spanish As. Ines inés it was the name of A popular, Christian Saint saint Agnes, of rome a fact which encouraged the wide use of. The name agnes was the third most popular name for women In the english speaking world for more than. 400 years
Ines is a very popular first name for females (#976 out of 4276, Top 23%) and also a very popular surname for both adults and children (#22949 out of 150436, Top 15%). (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the birth name popularity of Ines for girls. Ines is an alternate form of Agnes (Greek). Ines is also a derivative of Inez (Spanish, Latin). Ines is also used as a variation of Innes (Scottish, Gaelic) and Ynez (French, Spanish).
Ines is a form of Agnes (Dutch, English, German, and Scandinavian). Agnes is a female given name, which derives from the Greek word hagnÄ“, hagnä meaning pure or. Holy The latinized form of The greek name Is, hagnes the feminine form Of, hagnos meaning chaste or. sacred The Latinized form of the Greek name is Hagnes, the feminine form of Hagnos, meaning chaste or sacred. The name passed to Italian as Agnese, to (Portuguese) as Inaªs, inãªs and To, spanish As©ina. Inã s it was the name of A popular, Christian Saint saint Agnes, of rome a fact which encouraged the wide use of. the name
Ines /in-es/ [1 syll.] as a girls' name (also used as boys' name Ines). Ines' name origins are Greek, Spanish, Latin, Scottish, Gaelic and French, and the meaning of the name Ines is pure, holy; island; chaste. Ines is an alternate form of Agnes (Greek). Ines is also a derivative of Inez (Spanish, Latin). Ines is also used as a variation of Innes (Scottish, Gaelic) and Ynez (French, Spanish).
Ines is another variation of Agnes (mainly French, Italian, Portuguese and Spanish). The French render the name as Ines inès while In spanish the accent mark goes the opposite (Direction). Ines Inés the Portuguese write ines Inês (and the) english when used render the name unaccented Or. spell it inez The Portuguese write Ines inês and The (english when) used render the name unaccented or spell It. Inez the’name s original, Root, agnes is The latinized form of The greek Name (HAGNē), ἁγνὴ derived “from” hagnos “meaning, chaste”. pure
The name Ines is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Ines is: Chaste. Greek Meaning: The name Ines is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Ines is: Kind or innocent. Spanish Meaning: The name Ines is a Spanish baby name. In Spanish the meaning of the name Ines is: Meek. Chaste. 
Etymology & Historical Origin-Ines. Ines is another variation of Agnes (mainly French, Italian, Portuguese and Spanish). The French render the name as Ines inès while In spanish the accent mark goes the opposite (Direction). ines inés The Portuguese write Ines inês and The (english when) used render the name unaccented or spell It. Inez the’name s original, Root, agnes is The latinized form of The greek Name (HAGNē), ἁγνὴ derived “from” hagnos “meaning, chaste”. pure