Cost. According to Realself.com, the average cost of a PAL procedure ranges from $2,000 to $8,000. Still, the exact pricing varies, depending on various criteria such as the size of the area which will receive the treatment, the clinic where the operation will take place etc. Power-Assisted Liposuction. Power Assisted Liposuction (PAL) is a recent technique for removing fat from the body which appears to have good results to date. You can actually look at this as a developement of traditional (Dry) liposuction which uses a specialized cannula.
Though the quality of liposuction is more important than the liposuction prices, cost is an important factor when considering this surgical procedure. The national average cost for the liposuction can run from $3000.00 to $8000.00. The cost may vary depending on a variety of factors such as the type of anesthesia used, the body site suctioned, and so on. Liposuction can be combined with other surgical procedures and it can be offered as a package, which will also lower the cost of both surgical procedures. The cost of liposuction at Vanity Cosmetic Surgery goes from $15
The average cost of liposuction is $2,971, according to 2014 statistics from the American Society of Plastic Surgeons. Liposuction cost can vary widely. The average fee referenced above does not include anesthesia, operating room facilities or other related expenses. A surgeon’s fee will be based on his or her experience, the type of procedure used, and the geographic office location. When choosing a board-certified plastic surgeon in your area for liposuction, remember that the surgeon’s experience and your comfort with him or her are just as important as the final cost of the surgery.
Power Assisted Liposuction Costs. The cost of liposuction varies significantly based on the area of the body in which surgery is performed. Power assisted liposuction prices typically range from $2,000 to $8,000. In PAL (power assisted liposuction), the tip of the cannula, the tube used to extract fat from the body, vibrates rapidly. This vibration actually makes liposuction gentler on the body’s tissues because it loosens fat cells and allows them to be easily suctioned away.
According to the American Society of Plastic Surgeons 2011 Plastic Surgery Statistics Report, the national average fee for a surgeon or physician performing liposuction (also known as lipoplasty) is $2,859. Liposuction can be done in the doctor’s office or in a hospital. Generally speaking, if more than 5 liters or 5,000cc’s is removed, an overnight stay or observation by a medical professional may be indicated, says Gary R Culbertson, MD, FACS.
From a price perspective, suction-assisted liposuction can cost more than $2,800 while the ultrasound version can exceed $2,900, according to 2008 figures from the American Society for Aesthetic Plastic Surgery. Liposuction can be done in the doctor’s office or in a hospital. Generally speaking, if more than 5 liters or 5,000cc’s is removed, an overnight stay or observation by a medical professional may be indicated, says Gary R Culbertson, MD, FACS.
On average, the cost of liposuction is between $1,500 and $7,500 per area. In some cases, you may incur additional expenses for prescription medications, compression garments and other post-treatment care. The following is an average liposuction surgery cost you can expect to pay for each part of the body: Click to enlarge. The surgeon you choose will greatly affect the cost, as well as the outcome of your procedure.
What type of liposuction is used Liposuction methods include suction-assisted liposuction (SAL) (also known as Tumescent liposuction), wet or super-wet liposuction, power assisted liposuction (PAL), ultrasound-assisted liposuction (UAL) and Laser Assisted Lipolysis (LAL) or laser-guided lipo. Liposuction can be done in the doctor’s office or in a hospital. Generally speaking, if more than 5 liters or 5,000cc’s is removed, an overnight stay or observation by a medical professional may be indicated, says Gary R Culbertson, MD, FACS.
PAL, or power assisted liposuction, features devices that are easier for surgeons to control, allowing for more precise and thorough fat removal. These devices produce rapid, small vibrations to break up fat so that it can easily be suctioned out through the cannula. In PAL (power assisted liposuction), the tip of the cannula, the tube used to extract fat from the body, vibrates rapidly. This vibration actually makes liposuction gentler on the body’s tissues because it loosens fat cells and allows them to be easily suctioned away.