· just now. Report Abuse. Depending on the golf course, number of participants, food, beverages and prizes provided, it will cost anywhere from $35 to $150 per player. There are consultants that plan golf tournaments for you if you want to contract with them. Otherwise, talk with your local golf course and get detailed information from them. Below are some links that you may find helpful in planning a golf tournament for your work. I think they may give you an idea of what to anticipate for costs depending on how you'd like to set up the tournament.
Anyone can put on a charity golf tournament. Not everyone can produce a first class event that raises a lot of money and one that golfers return year after year. There are over 1,000,000 golf events in this country each year. The average golf tournament in the US raises $5,000. 
1 Figure out the cost. 2  A good rule of the thumb to hosting a golf tournament is to try to make it no more than $50 a person to play in the event. 3  If the entry fee includes food and beverage-in addition to golf-then that's not a bad deal and will help generate a lot of players. 4  Advertise the event. Here's how to host a golf tournament. 1  Get a budget. 2  Pick a day. 3  Find the course. 4  Figure out the cost. 5  Advertise the event. 6  Solicit help. 7  Plan and prepare.
Hosting a golf tournament is a big project, and there are expenses involved. First, you will have to arrange with a local golf course willing to host the tournament, and it is very likely that you will have to pay a fee to rent the course for the day. Arranging a Golf Tournament Fundraiser. Hosting a golf tournament is a high-profile, and often very lucrative fundraising concept. Golf has a reputation for being the game of people with lots of money and leisure time.
Planning and Research. The first step in organizing a charity golf tournament is establishing goals. Determine how much money you need to raise and estimate costs as this will influence your planning. Charity golf tournaments are known to be one of the most lucrative fundraising events if done right. Create a written project plan that spells out goals and outlines roles and responsibilities. Once you've identified a course that meets your needs, you'll want to iron out the details with the golf course staff. Putting everything into writing and signing an agreement can alleviate confusion on tournament day.
Depending on the course and the charity, the cost can range from thousands of dollars per player or foursome, to as little as $75 per player. The entry fee is usually tax-deductible and upon request, a tournament will supply documentation for tax purposes. Entry fees will include the cost of playing the golf course. cart fees, lunch and/or dinner, on-course beverages and gifts that can range from a golf shirt or hat to a golf bag or a driver.
Median Cost Per Round. The median cost for 18 holes of golf at a public course on the weekend is $36, including a cart, according to the survey, which noted that at a daily course -- a privately owned facility open to the public -- the median cost was $40 for a weekend round. For the South Course, on which the 2008 PGA Championship was played, prices ranged from $246 to $292. The price per round at California's Pebble Beach Golf Links, home of the Pebble Beach National Pro-Am and numerous major championships, was $495.
As of 2005, the NGF survey determined, the average cost of an 18-hole round was $42.70 at courses built prior to 1970, but $48.33 for courses constructed between 1970 and 1990, and $60.55 for courses built in 1990 or later. Golfers pay premium prices to play the best U.S. public courses. For the South Course, on which the 2008 PGA Championship was played, prices ranged from $246 to $292. The price per round at California's Pebble Beach Golf Links, home of the Pebble Beach National Pro-Am and numerous major championships, was $495.