Let us locate you. HOME / Trips / Long Trails / Appalachian Trail / Appalachian Trail: Amicalola Falls to Springer Mountain. It’s not the officially the AT but this 8.8-mile hike climbs past Amicalola Falls to Springer Mountain, the southern terminus of the 2,175-mile Appalachian Trail.
The Approach Trail to the Appalachian Trail and the Trail to Hike Inn Begin at Amicalola Falls State Park ~~ Photograph by Robert Sutherland. Hike Inn at Amicalola Falls State Park near Dawsonville, Georgia, is a hop, skip and a bunch of jumps from Springer Mountain, the southernmost point on the Appalachian Trail. 
Amicalola Falls is the starting point of the approach trail to Springer Mountain. Springer Mountain is the official starting point of the A.T, so technically, we aren’t going to be on the A.T. today. But it still feels genuine. Today we shoulder our packs and head into the hills. But my luck is much better. I still have at least a pound of water and only another two and a half miles to go. After a steep and exhausting climb up Black Mountain, a vertical gain of 500 feet, we descend 400 feet to the first of many shelters which we will see on the trail.
How far is it from the Hike Inn to the Appalachian Trail? Springer Mountain, the southern terminus of the AT, is a 4.4-mile hike (8.8 miles round trip) from the Hike Inn. Most guests who hike to Springer Mountain spend two nights at the Hike Inn, allowing a full day for the hike. 
PDF Printable Version of Springer Mountain Hike. If you follow the typical approach path to the southern terminus of the Appalachian Trail AT on Springer Mountain 3782 ft. in Chattahoochee National Forest, you will find yourself hiking an arduous 8+ miles from Amicalola Falls State Park in North Georgia. 
The usual approach is to start at Amicalola Falls State Park off paved GA Hwy. 52 and walk the 8.3 mile blue-blazed Approach Trail to Springer Mountain. A shorter approach is to intercept the Approach Trail at Nimblewill Gap on USFS Road #28 and walk 2.5 miles north to Springer. See below under Transportation in the North GA Area. Driving to the Approach Trail: From Dahlonega, Georgia (about 60 miles north of downtown Atlanta via GA Hwy. 400) take GA Hwy. 52 west approximately 20 miles to Amicalola Falls State Park. Parking is available near the visitor center.
Leaving from behind the falls, the Southern Terminus Approach Trail allows hikers to get to the start of the Appalachian Trail. Len Foote Hike Inn The trail to the Len Foote Hike Inn, begins within the boundaries of Amicalola Falls State Park, actually sharing the footpath with Southern Terminus Trail. This almost 1,000 acre park features 12 miles of completely integrated trails that can form a number of loop trails, and is the start (or end, depending on how you look at it) of the 2,108 mil
Waving farewell to my sister’s southern hospitality, DT and I head toward Amicalola Falls, the starting point of the approach trail that we will hike today. The official start of the approach trail to Springer Mountain. DT and I have been on several trips before. But my luck is much better. I still have at least a pound of water and only another two and a half miles to go. After a steep and exhausting climb up Black Mountain, a vertical gain of 500 feet, we descend 400 feet to the first of many shelters which we will see on the trail.
Amicalola. Tumbling water. Amicalola Falls entered the Georgia State Park system in 1940 and played a key roll in the Appalachian Trail Club rerouting the start of the trail to Springer Mountain in 1957. With over 800 acres, the park is one of the larger parks in the Georgia system.
The first and most popular is to begin at the visitor center at Amicalola Falls State Park and take the 8.8 mile Approach Trail to Springer Mountain. This trail is steep at times and climbs almost the whole way with an elevation gain of over 2000 feet. This section of the Appalachian Trail begins at the 3782 foot summit of Springer Mountain. You'll find a plaque at the summit as well as the first white blaze on the rock for those heading north on the AT.