About ASICS. ASICS® was founded on the belief that the best way to create a healthy and happy lifestyle is to promote sports. In fact, ASICS is an acronym from the famous Latin phrase Anima Sana In Corpore Sano, which translates, A Sound Mind in a Sound Body.. 
Asics Running Shoes Reviews. Asics is the Japanese giant of running shoes. The Asics name is an acronym of the latin motto Anima Sana in Corpore Sano which is Healty Mind in a Healty Body. Founded in 1949 by Kirachiro Onitsuka. Asics makes some of the most popular running shoes worldwide, from the cushioned Cumulus and Nimbus to the stability Kayano and GT series. Asics' lineup of running shoes is impressive: being the focus sport for the company, they have plenty of options to fit many different runners.
The name ASICS is an acronym of the Latin phrase anima sana in corpore sano, which translates to healthy soul in a healthy body, which derives from Juvenal 's aphorism mens sana in corpore sano or Thales ' saying νοῦς ὑγιὴς ἐν σώματι ὑγιεῖ. Its founder, Kihachiro Onitsuka, began manufacturing basketball shoes in his home town of Kobe, Hyogo Prefecture, Japan. Soon after the range of sports activities widened to a variety of Olympic styles used throughout the '50s, '60s and '70s by athletes worldwide.
About ASICS Shoes. ASICS was founded in Kobe, Japan by Mr. Kihachiro Onitsuka who believed that the best way to create a healthy and happy lifestyle is promote total fitness and athletic performance. Since its inception, ASICS shoes have been created with a passion to bring harmony to the body and soul. In order to continue making athletic footwear based on that philosophy, ASICS opened a research facility over 20 years ago to study and analyze the movements of the human body.
In recent years their running shoes have often been ranked among the top performance footwear in the market. ASICS bought the outdoor brand Hagloefs haglöfs On july, 12, 2010 FOR 1,000,000,000 (1000000000$.128 7). million Its founder, Kihachiro Onitsuka, began manufacturing basketball shoes in his home town of Kobe, Hyogo Prefecture, Japan. Soon after the range of sports activities widened to a variety of Olympic styles used throughout the '50s, '60s and '70s by athletes worldwide.
Because of this belief, he chose the name ASICS for his company based on the famous Latin phrase Anima Sana In Corpore Sano, which means A Sound Mind in a Sound Body. Since its inception, ASICS shoes have been created with a passion to bring harmony to the body and soul. In order to continue making athletic footwear based on that philosophy, ASICS opened a research facility over 20 years ago to study and analyze the movements of the human body.
The company is much smaller than rivals Nike and Adidas. For 2011, Asics had sales of about $3.03 billion; Nike and Adidas have sales of $20.86 billion and $15.82 billion, respectively. Then there’s the name issue: the pronunciation of Asics differs in the U.S.—where the A is stressed, as in ‘AY-sics’. The rest of the world says ‘AH-sics”. Asics needs a brand story. The “Made of Sport” campaign is uniquely uninspiring and does nothing to build the Asics brand. Given the company’s limited resources, the rich heritage of the Onitsuka Tiger brand and the beautiful story of Kihachiro Onitsuka and his vision, I know where I’d put my money.
ASICS® was founded on the belief that the best way to create a healthy and happy lifestyle is to promote sports. In fact, ASICS is an acronym from the famous Latin phrase Anima Sana In Corpore Sano, which translates, A Sound Mind in a Sound Body.. Originating in Kobe, Japan over fifty years ago, ASICS shoes and ASICS clothing were introduced to the United States in 1977. 
ASICS (アシックス, Ashikkusu) is a Japanese athletic equipment company which produces footwear and sports equipment designed for a wide range of sports, generally in the upper price range. The name is an acronym for the Latin phrase anima sana in corpore sano which translates as a healthy soul in a healthy body. Its founder, Kihachiro Onitsuka, began manufacturing basketball shoes in his home town of Kobe, Hyogo Prefecture, Japan. Soon after the range of sports activities widened to a variety of Olympic styles used throughout the '50s, '60s and '70s by athletes worldwide.
close. ASICS ® has been making athletic shoes for over 50 years and is constantly working to encompass cutting-edge innovation and technology. A commitment to quality and originality is what makes ASICS running shoes some of the most advanced athletic footwear on the market. shop women | men | girls | boys.