The scope of the royal prerogative is difficult to determine due to the uncodified nature of the constitution. It is clear that the existence and extent of the power is a matter of the common law of England, making the courts the final arbiter of whether a particular type of prerogative exists or not. Contrary to widespread belief, the royal prerogative is not constitutionally unlimited. In the Case of Proclamations (1611) during the reign of King James VI/I, English common law courts judges emphatically asserted that they possessed the right to determine the limits of the royal prerogative.
Mason J stated that the executive power includes the 'prerogative powers of the Crown'(61), and hence, subject to statute, it is within the executive power to request another state to detain and extradite a person alleged to have committed a crime against Australian law. 
The royal prerogative is a body of customary authority, privilege, and immunity, recognised in the United Kingdom as the sole prerogative of the Sovereign and the source of many of the executive powers of the British government. 
From Citizendium, the Citizens' Compendium. Prerogative power is a legal doctrine that originated in England, giving the sovereign the right to operate in a supra-legal manner if he determined it was in the supreme national interest, typically in the common defense. Historically, the medieval monarchy was both feudal lord and head of the kingdom. 
Prerogative powers are defined as the residue of discretionary or arbitrary authority which at any given time is legally left in the hands of the CROWN. Prerogative Powers. Prerogative powers are defined as the residue of discretionary or arbitrary authority which at any given time is legally left in the hands of the Crown ..
As times have changed so to has the way in which prerogative powers are exercised. Within the following essay, I will briefly be concerned with the historical development of the prerogatives and the role that they play within the constitution in today's society. As the years have past certain prerogative powers have ceased to be used and there has been a great deal of uncertainty when attempting to apply ancient powers into modern times. As a result, it is difficult to produce a definitive list of powers still in use today.
The royal prerogative is a body of customary authority, privilege, and immunity, recognized in common law and, sometimes, in civil law jurisdictions possessing a monarchy, as belonging to the sovereign alone. Contrary to widespread belief, the royal prerogative is not constitutionally unlimited. In the Case of Proclamations (1611) during the reign of King James VI/I, English common law courts judges emphatically asserted that they possessed the right to determine the limits of the royal prerogative.
What Are Prerogative Powers. “The prerogative powers of the Crown remain in existence to the extent that Parliament has not expressly or by implication extinguished them.”. Lord Browne-Wilkinson in R v Secretary of State for the Home Department ex parte Fire Brigades Union and Others [1995] 2 All ER 244.
prerogative. PREROGATIVE, civil law. The privilege, preeminence, or advantage which one person has over another; thus a person vested with an office, is entitled to all the rights, privileges, prerogatives, &c. which belong to it. PREROGATIVE, English law. The royal prerogative is an arbitrary power vested in the executive to do good and not evil. Rutherf. Associated concepts: managerial prerogative, prerogative writ See also: authority, birthright, capacity, droit, enjoyment, franchise, freedom, impunity, liberty, license, option, prescription, privilege, right, suffrage, title, use.
Typically in liberal democracies that are constitutional monarchies as well as nation states, such as those of Denmark, Japan or Sweden, the royal prerogative serves as a prescribed ceremonial function of the state power. Contrary to widespread belief, the royal prerogative is not constitutionally unlimited. In the Case of Proclamations (1611) during the reign of King James VI/I, English common law courts judges emphatically asserted that they possessed the right to determine the limits of the royal prerogative.