10 most extreme places on Earth. Costume jewelry is jewelry made from inexpensive metals and imitations of precious stones. It tends to be flashy and sometimes over the top with gaudiness, although subdued costume jewelery that is designed to imitate more upscale jewelry is also available. Usually, the “stones” used are large and involve flashy cuts. Costume jewelry is made in all sorts of styles from Victorian inspired brooches to imitation pearl necklaces. Rings, bracelets, earrings, and other jewelry accessories all come in costume as well as regular form.
While it is sometimes labeled as “junk,” “fake,” or fashion jewelry, costume jewelry often incorporates workmanship and materials on par with, or better than, fine jewelry. The 20th century brought about a sea change in how jewelry was perceived and used. Stoking the interest in costume jewelry was the emergence of Hollywood as a fashion trendsetter. In particular, movie-set jewelry like Eugene Joseff’s creations for “Gone With the Wind,” “The Wizard of Oz,” and “Casablanca,” which could pass as opulent gems, were highly influential.
The term “costume jewelry” was coined in the 1920s, but jewelry and ornamentation made out of non-precious materials have been worn since ancient times. Stoking the interest in costume jewelry was the emergence of Hollywood as a fashion trendsetter. In particular, movie-set jewelry like Eugene Joseff’s creations for “Gone With the Wind,” “The Wizard of Oz,” and “Casablanca,” which could pass as opulent gems, were highly influential.
The difference between fine jewelry and costume jewelry is the quality of the metal used in the jewelry and the authenticity of the stones set into the pieces. Additionally, fine jewelry can last for generations, and it is often considered an investment or something worth collecting and passing down to family members. Costume jewelry first appeared in the 1930s. Wearing costume jewelry was a way to embellish a costume or an outfit. When the term costume jewelry is used today, it is sometimes interchanged with the term fashion jewelry. Both have become synonymous with one another.
Swatch Bijoux Jewelry. Costume jewelry, trinkets, fashion jewelry, junk jewelry, fake jewelry, or fallalery is jewelry manufactured as ornamentation to complement a particular fashionable costume or garment as opposed to real (fine) jewelry which may be regarded primarily as collectibles, keepsakes, or investments. Costume jewelry was also made popular by various designers in the mid-20th century. Some of the most remembered names in costume jewelry include both the high and low priced brands: Crown Trifari, Dior, Chanel, Miriam Haskell, Monet, Napier, Corocraft, Coventry, and Kim Craftsmen.
If they are constructed well, certain pieces of costume jewelry can be hard to differentiate from fine jewelry. The visual appearance of precious metal can be seen on the surface of costume jewelry in the form of plating, dipping, filling, and rolling in both gold and silver metals. Costume jewelry first appeared in the 1930s. Wearing costume jewelry was a way to embellish a costume or an outfit. When the term costume jewelry is used today, it is sometimes interchanged with the term fashion jewelry. Both have become synonymous with one another.
The methods used to tell the difference between fine jewelry and costume jewelry are simple. Fashion jewelry is not made of precious metals, natural gemstones, natural pearls, or diamonds. There are some exceptions with precious metal pieces. Costume jewelry first appeared in the 1930s. Wearing costume jewelry was a way to embellish a costume or an outfit. When the term costume jewelry is used today, it is sometimes interchanged with the term fashion jewelry. Both have become synonymous with one another.
Originally, costume or fashion jewelry was made of inexpensive simulated gemstones, such as rhinestones or lucite, set in pewter, silver, nickel or brass. During the depression years, rhinestones were even down-graded by some manufacturers to meet the cost of production. Costume jewelry was also made popular by various designers in the mid-20th century. Some of the most remembered names in costume jewelry include both the high and low priced brands: Crown Trifari, Dior, Chanel, Miriam Haskell, Monet, Napier, Corocraft, Coventry, and Kim Craftsmen.
Costume jewelry and fashion jewelry are essentially the same but from different time periods. The two types share similarities in construction and purpose, but there are some subtle differences between costume and fashion jewelry. Shoppers purchase costume and fashion jewelry on eBay to expand their collections and enhance their style. From the home page, browse all categories to find Fashion, or select Jewelry & watches from the side panel on the left. Fashion Jewelry is located under the Jewelry & watches subcategory.