Generation X, commonly abbreviated to Gen X, is the generation born after the Western Post–World War II baby boom. Demographers and commentators use birth dates ranging from the early 1960s to the early 1980s. In 2011 The Generation X Report (based on annual surveys used in the Longitudinal Study of today's adults) found Gen Xers, defined in the report as people born between 1961 and 1981, to be highly educated, active, balanced, happy and family oriented.
Generation X is the term often applied to the generation born between 1964 and 1981, right after the end of the post-World War II baby boom (1946-1964) that gave boomers their name. Generation X is often abbreviated as Gen X, and members of Generation X are commonly referred to as Gen Xers. For a time, Generation X was called the baby bust generation, because of the declining birth rate that started in 1964, officially ending the post-war baby boom. What Distinguishes Generation X.
Generation X by broadest definition includes those individuals born between 1961 and 1981. The collective persona of Gen Xers is frequently debated and discussed among academicians and marketing experts worldwide. It traditionally applies to North Americans (U.S and Canada); Australia, and various European countries. In this article you’ll learn the definition of Generation X and discover its years, size and characteristics including major, defining events like divorce, latchkey kids, the Berlin Wall and the Cold War. You’ll also learn about cultural touchstones like big hair and John Hughes films.
Generation X refers to the generation of people that were born after the generation of “baby boomers” which happened after World War II. It was back in the early part of the 1950s that “Generation X” was first coined by Cappa to describe young people in pictures after World War II. After which, the term was used to refer to the young generation who seemed to have no identity, hence the “X” in the term.
The term Generation X was coined by the Magnum photographer Robert Capa in the early 1950s. He used it later as a title for a photo-essay about young men and women growing up immediately after the Second World War. The project first appeared in Picture Post (UK) and Holiday (US) in 1953. In 2011 The Generation X Report (based on annual surveys used in the Longitudinal Study of today's adults) found Gen Xers, defined in the report as people born between 1961 and 1981, to be highly educated, active, balanced, happy and family oriented.
Generation X -- Noun -- The generation of children born between 1965-1975 who were largely raised by pre-baby-boomer parents. Core attributes are cynicism, pragmatism and expectation that they will be given the shaft by the larger baby boomer cohort that precedes them. 
Definition. The generation of people born during the 1980s and early 1990s. The name is based on Generation X, the generation that preceded them. Members of Generation Y are often referred to as “echo boomers” because they are the children of parents born during the baby boom (the “baby boomers”).
Millennials (also known as the Millennial Generation or Generation Y) are the demographic cohort following Generation X. There are no precise dates when the generation starts and ends; most researchers and commentators use birth years ranging from the early 1980s to the early 2000s. 
Generation Y: Generation Y. You guessed it, Generation Y came after Generation X. Generation Y covers people born between the 1980’s and the year 2000, and these individuals are sometimes referred to as Gen Y, the Millennial Generation, or simply Millennials. Generation Z: Generation Z is the generation of children born after the Year 2000. They are the children of Generation X and Generation Y. To be fair we don’t know a whole lot about the character traits of Generation Z, because they haven’t been on the earth for very long yet.