The larynx is a tough, flexible segment of the respiratory tract connecting the pharynx to the trachea in the neck. It plays a vital role in the respiratory tract by allowing air to pass through it while keeping food and drink from blocking the airway. Inferior to the epiglottis is the glottis region of the larynx, which contains the vocal folds. The largest cartilage in the larynx, the thyroid cartilage, supports the glottis. The thyroid cartilage is semicircular in shape with a prominent ridge extending from its anterior surface.
Function of the Respiratory System. The function of the human respiratory system is to transport air into the lungs and to facilitate the diffusion of Oxygen into the blood stream. Its also receives waste Carbon Dioxide from the blood and exhales it. Parts of the Upper Respiratory Tract. 1  Mouth, nose & nasal cavity: The function of this part of the system is to warm, filter and moisten the incoming air. 2  Pharynx: Here the throat divides into the trachea (wind pipe) and oesophagus (food pipe).
Respiratory System. Several organs of the respiratory system are responsible for the process of breathing. The nose, pharynx, larynx, trachea, bronchi, and lungs work together to allow gas exchange to occur at the cellular level. The primary function of the respiratory system is to allow the lungs to take in atmospheric oxygen through inhalation and dispose of the waste products the body does not need through exhalation. Inhalation is an active motion that causes the diaphragm to contract
Larynx. From the pharynx, air enters into the larynx, commonly called the voice box. The larynx is part of the upper respiratory tract that has two main functions: a passageway for air to enter into the lungs, and a source of vocalization. The primary function of the respiratory system is to allow the lungs to take in atmospheric oxygen through inhalation and dispose of the waste products the body does not need through exhalation. Inhalation is an active motion that causes the diaphragm to contract
In fact, the system is composed of the following biological structures: nose and nasal cavity, mouth, pharynx, larynx, trachea, bronchi and bronchioles, lungs and the muscles of respiration. (1). A properly functioning respiratory system is a vital part of our good health. 
In humans the pharynx is part of the digestive system and also of the conducting zone of the respiratory system. The conducting zone also includes the nose, larynx, trachea, bronchi, and bronchioles, and their function is to filter, warm, and moisten air and conduct it into the lungs.
The respiratory system provides oxygen to the body’s cells while removing carbon dioxide, a waste product that can be lethal if allowed to accumulate. There are 3 major parts of the respiratory system: the airway, the lungs, and the muscles of respiration. The airway, which includes the nose, mouth, pharynx, larynx, trachea, bronchi, and bronchioles, carries air between the lungs and the body’s exterior. The lungs... Click to read more below. The cells of the human body require a constant stream of oxygen to stay alive. 
Above the trachea is the larynx also called the voice box or glottis. Across the larynx are two tiny ridges called vocal cords. As air flows in from the lungs the vocal cords … close together and vibrate creating sounds. + 82 others found this useful. Hussein Matar. 
Answer by Daphne K. Confidence votes 169. Above the trachea is the larynx also called the voice box or glottis. Across the larynx are two tiny ridges called vocal cords. As air flows in from the lungs the vocal cords close together and vibrate creating sounds. The respiratory system is made up of lungs and related parts in your body that allow you to breathe; meaning to take in oxygen and to release the carbon dioxide to out side. Edit. Share to: Answered.