The statistic depicts the average length of a player's career in the National Football League, considering different aspects influencing the length of a playing career. According to the NFL Players Association the average career length is about 3.3 years. 
In Baseball, Basketball, Football, Hockey, Sports. Comments. The average playing career for an NFL players is 3.5 years, the average MLB career is 5.6 years, the average NBA career is 4.8 years, and the average NHL career is 5.5 years. Playing in one of the major four American sports takes a toll on a person’s body that is nearly unfathomable
Factoring in players' abilities results in an adjusted average NFL career of 6.86 years. This approximate seven-year figure is the result of counting only those players who are actually on team rosters for the opening game of the season in which they're drafted or signed. The average National Football League player doesn't enjoy a very long career. The number most typically quoted is three years. If you're an NFL fan, this statistic probably leaves you a little confused as you watch your favorite player take the field season after season.
[…] The length of an NFL Career | Sports Info 247 – If a player is lucky to last long enough in the NFL, … If the average career of an NFL player is 3 ½ years, that means their career is typically over by the time they reach the age of 25 to 27 years old. With the life expectancy of American males at almost 76 years (according to The World Factbook), all NFL players must make plans for life after football. Of course, players with the longest careers are kickers and punters, averaging 4.87 years. These positions typically never get hit during the normal course of practice, or an NFL game, and you do not have to have world class speed to be a kicker. The average career of an NFL quarterback is only 4.44 years.
Longest Careers. The longest careers among NFL players tends to be those who are hit the least. Kickers and punters have the longest careers, averaging 4.87 years. Quarterbacks are next with an average career of 4.44 years. The career of the average NFL player tends to be short. The National Football League is extremely competitive, so players must compete hard to keep their jobs against new players entering the league every year. The injury rate among NFL players is also extremely high.
Overall Average. According the the NFL Players Association, the average career of an NFL player is 3.3 years. The players left the NFL for a variety of reasons. These include injury, retirement and being cut by their team. The career of the average NFL player tends to be short. The National Football League is extremely competitive, so players must compete hard to keep their jobs against new players entering the league every year. The injury rate among NFL players is also extremely high.
Meanwhile, the NFLPA argued that the average career length for a NFL player is 3.2 years, although according to their own numbers, they are basing it on average “accrued seasons” and their number is 3.54 accrued seasons (definition is that a player must be on the roster at least 6 games in a season). The NFL argued that “the average career length for a player who makes a club’s opening-day roster (active/inactive roster or injured reserve) in his rookie season is 6.0 years .” but went on to throw out statistics about average length for pro-bowlers at 11.7 years, and this was deemed a joke by many in the media.
Follow Business Insider: The average NBA player will make $24.7 million in his career. That is based on an average salary of $5.2 million and an average career length of 4.8 years and is $18.6 million more than the career earnings for the average NFL player ($6.1 million). The NFL average is so much lower than the other leagues because of the large number of players on each team and the high turnover rate, especially among fringe players. As a result, the average NFL player makes just $1.9 million and has a career of just 3.2 years.