Report Abuse. Typically you cannot set the temperature on the freezer section of a fridge freezer. Mark 6 is actually the coldest and on a new fridge freezer can often cause food to freeze solid particularly at the back! Correct setting varies according to model and things like wear and surrounding temperature/season. Try it on 3 but the best way to judge temperature is with a fridge thermometer.
Last updated: 1 May, 2014. The ideal temperature setting for a refrigerator is 3ºC and for a freezer it's -18ºC. The only exceptions are fridge-freezers in the RB*** range, for which we recommend -19°C (as -18ºC isn't an available option for these models). To adust the temperature follow the steps outlined below:
In order to keep food out of the Danger Zone, your fridge must be set between 32-40° F (0-4 degrees Celsius). Your freezer must be below 32° F (0° Celsius). I keep mine as cold as it will go. Keep your freezer efficient by half-filling it with bottles of water. 
The ideal freezer temperature is 0 Fahrenheit (-18 Celsius) for storing food. And -10 Fahrenheit (-23 Celsius) is recommended when freezing food. The faster food freezes the smaller the ice crystals. The smaller the ice crystals the smaller the change in texture and better quality when thawed. Ideal Freezer Temperature. Setting the ideal freezer temperature is vital to keeping your food safe. Freezing food stops the growth of bacteria, it does not kill it. So if the temperature gets too warm bacteria can start to grow again. But your freezer does more than that.
34°F - 40°F is the ideal refrigerator temperature range. Some Web sites just say under 40°F, but not so cold to freeze fresh foods. Dairy products and meats keep best at the low end of the temperature range. A freezer should be set at 0°F, or lower, if possible. If the temperature gets warmer than +5°F, ice cream will be too soft and won't keep well. A properly working food freezer will operate in the range of -10°F to +2°F, and may go up to around +8°F briefly during the defrost cycle if it is of the frost free type. 
1 Keep the refrigerator temperature at or below 40° F (4° C). 2  The freezer temperature should be 0° F (-18° C). 3  Check temperatures periodically. 4  Appliance thermometers are the best way of knowing these temperatures and are generally inexpensive. 1 Also, when putting food away, don't crowd the refrigerator or freezer so tightly that air can't circulate. 2  Keep your appliances at the proper temperatures. 3  Keep the refrigerator temperature at or below 40° F (4° C). 4
Normally a domestic freezer is best set to −18 °C (0 °F) or colder, as that's what the expiration dates for many food items are based on. It's also a requirement for freezers in restaurants, supermarkets & other places that sell food (at least here in Europe) to maintain a temperature of at most -18 °C. In order to keep food out of the Danger Zone, your fridge must be set between 32-40°F (0-4°C). Your freezer must be below 32°F (0°C). I keep mine as cold as it will go. Keep your freezer efficient by half-filling it with bottles of water.