For that reason, a deficiency in iodine can lead to an underactive thyroid. However, a lack of iodine is rarely the cause of hypothyroidism in developed countries where it is abundant in the food supply (3). Nevertheless, including iodine-rich foods in your diet is a good idea to be safe. Summary: As iodine is required for thyroid hormone production, ensure your diet contains foods naturally rich in iodine (but if you have Hashimoto’s then check first with your doctor). Unless you are pregnant or breastfeeding, iodine supplements are unnecessary and potentially dangerous.
Whole Grains. Constipation is a common symptom of hypothyroidism. Whole-grain foods such as cereal, bread, pasta, and rice are high in nutrients in addition to fiber, which can help with bowel regularity. However, fiber can interfere with synthetic thyroid hormones, cautions Turner. An early symptom of hypothyroidism is weight gain. Low-calorie, high-density foods such as fresh produce are the cornerstone of every successful weight loss program. Include either fresh fruits or veggies at each meal, if possible.
If you have an underactive thyroid, you should eat a well-balanced diet and control your weight. A well-balanced diet can help you feel better and can be a positive step in dealing with this condition. It can also help decrease your chances of developing heart disease or certain types of cancer. 
By eating the right foods for low thyroid, you will be getting the right nutrients to boost your thyroid function. Vitamin D 3 plays a big role in how well your thyroid functions. Even though we get this vitamin from the sun, we rarely eat foods that contain enough Vitamin D to maintain good health. A n underactive thyroid diet is different because it is designed to help your thyroid function improve. If you have already tried to diet to lose weight, you have probably already figured that one out.
Foods that are good for the thyroid gland and should be added for a normal thyroid function will likely be among some of your favorites. Most people love strawberries. Strawberries are rich in Vitamin C, but did you know that they also contain iodine. Yogurt is rich in calcium and it also contains iodine. There you have two sources that not only taste great together, but they are among the good foods for thyroid. By eating just a cup of each, you will be providing your body and thyroid with approximately 100 micro grams of iodine.
Maybe you are a fan of yogurt and it would be easy for you to add this to your thyroid diet. Yogurt is one food that is good for your thyroid. Yogurt is rich in calcium and it also contains iodine. There you have two sources that not only taste great together, but they are among the good foods for thyroid. By eating just a cup of each, you will be providing your body and thyroid with approximately 100 micro grams of iodine.
Fish and shell fish are also a food that aids your thyroid. It is a good choice of food rich in iodine. It is also a great source of protein and omega-3 fatty acids. This, however, can be a hard food to eat if you don’t like it. Fish is one of those foods that would be hard to develop a taste for. Yogurt is rich in calcium and it also contains iodine. There you have two sources that not only taste great together, but they are among the good foods for thyroid. By eating just a cup of each, you will be providing your body and thyroid with approximately 100 micro grams of iodine.
Foods that provide selenium are thought to be helpful toward thyroid function. Dietitian Anne Collins suggests that you consistently eat selenium-rich foods such as whole-wheat bread, bran, Brazil nuts, tuna, onions, tomatoes and broccoli to help improve thyroid function. These foods are also high in other nutrients and fiber, which can contribute to overall health and weight management. Photo Credit Thomas Northcut/Digital Vision/Getty Images. Foods that contain good amounts of iron can improve thyroid function. Iron is found in various foods, such as lean red meat, tuna, salmon, clams, most beans, leafy greens, tofu and fortified grain products, such as breads and cereals.
Photo Credit Goodshoot/Goodshoot/Getty Images. The Hartford Clinic suggests a high-fiber diet for those who struggle with underactive thyroid. Such a diet improves regularity and can help you to maintain a healthy weight. To increase fiber in your diet, eat fruits and vegetables with most meals and as snacks. Photo Credit Thomas Northcut/Digital Vision/Getty Images. Foods that contain good amounts of iron can improve thyroid function. Iron is found in various foods, such as lean red meat, tuna, salmon, clams, most beans, leafy greens, tofu and fortified grain products, such as breads and cereals.
Along with taking your thyroid medication, you can bolster thyroid function with a well-balanced diet that includes lots of produce and protein, among other healthy foods, says Gregory B. Dodell, MD, an endocrinologist in New York City. The next time you're at the grocery store, look for these seven nutrient-rich foods. An early symptom of hypothyroidism is weight gain. Low-calorie, high-density foods such as fresh produce are the cornerstone of every successful weight loss program. Include either fresh fruits or veggies at each meal, if possible.