Estimate approximately 4oz per (Adult) guest. So that's 4 guests per pound of cooked meat or about 25 pounds of cooked brisket. Remember a brisket looses approximately 20% of it raw weight when cooked. Average brisket weights 9-12lbs lets call it 10lbs for easy math. when cooked it will serve at about 8 lbs and so you would buy 3 briskets that each weigh slightly more than 10 lbs. Brisket is a very fatty coarse meat that shrinks markedly when cooked; when smoking, experienced grill masters expect 40-50% shrinkage. For the average serving, you'll need 4oz for a sandwich, 6 oz for a plate. For 300 people, that i … s 75 pounds cooked. Because of a 40-50% shrinkage depending on cooking time (and fat trimmed), you would need up to half the weight again--which adds up to about 112 lbs.
To calculate how much food we need for any event – we estimate that (1) pound of total finished product will feed (2.6) people. As an example – for a party of (26), you would need 10lbs of finished product – regardless of how many meats. 
How much sausage and brisket for 300 people? A general rule of thumb for large gatherings is 1/4 pound of meat (main dish) per anticipated guest. The decision to make here is how much of each meat, when the overall total … is going to be 75 pounds. Estimate approximately 4oz per (Adult) guest. So that's 4 guests per pound of cooked meat or about 25 pounds of cooked brisket. Remember a brisket looses approximately 20% of … it raw weight when cooked
A brisket will usually yield 1/2 to 2/3 meat to it's original weight after smoking. A good serving size is 1/3 lb per person. Estimate approximately 4oz per (Adult) guest. So that's 4 guests per pound of cooked meat or about 25 pounds of cooked brisket. Remember a brisket looses approximately 20% of … it raw weight when cooked
It's better to have leftovers for yourself or to give to your guests. I plan on 1/2 pound of raw weight of meat per person unless the crowd is all big hungry men with lots of beer and football. Then I may go up to 1 full pound per person. Remember to allow for bones. This allows for shrinkage and leftovers. For drinks, I plan on two drinks per person, per hour. 
Best Answer: Assumptions I'm Making: 1) Brisket is the main entree you're serving 2) You're not pressure-cooking it or anything else that will substantially cut down on the amount of meat for food per raw pound 3) When you say children you mean kids about 10 years old on average. I use to work at a bbq restaurant and catered. For brisket we averaged 6 ounces per adult without a bun.If you serve it as a sandwich then 4ounces per sandwich. A child would eat about 2-3 ounces. so if you average 4 ounces per person i would say 25 lbs of brisket for 100 ppl. more then that if you want to be safe.