Cuzco was the center of the Incan empire. The Incas, an American Indian people, were originally a small tribe in the southern highlands of Peru. In less than a century, during the 1400s, they built one of the largest, most tightly controlled empires the world has ever known.
The Inca Empire (Quechua: Tawantinsuyu, The Four Regions), also known as the Incan Empire, was the largest empire in pre-Columbian America. The administrative, political, and military center of the empire was located in Cusco in modern-day Peru. After the fall of the Inca Empire many aspects of Inca culture were systematically destroyed, including their sophisticated farming system, known as the vertical archipelago model of agriculture. Spanish colonial officials used the Inca mita corvee corvée labor system for colonial, aims sometimes. brutally
The Incas were a pre-Columbian tribe that lived on the Andes mountains and spoke Quechua. The civilization had its capital in Cuzco, Peru. They were an ancient people, but h … ad been subject to the regional powers during the entire history of South American urban cultures. The Incas were a South American Indian tribe. They lived in the  area that is now known as the countries of Columbia, Argentina,  Bolivia, Chile, Ecuador and Peru. Edit.
The Incas were a South American Indian tribe. They lived in the  area that is now known as the countries of Columbia, Argentina,  Bolivia, Chile, Ecuador and Peru. Edit. The Incas were a pre-Columbian tribe that lived on the Andes mountains and spoke Quechua. The civilization had its capital in Cuzco, Peru. They were an ancient people, but h … ad been subject to the regional powers during the entire history of South American urban cultures
The Inca Empire was a vast empire that flourished in the Andean region of South America from the early 15th century A.D. up until its conquest by the Spanish in the 1530s. Even after the conquest, Inca leaders continued to resist the Spaniards up until 1572 when its last city, Vilcabamba, was captured. Inca oral history, recorded by the Spanish, suggests that the expansion of the Inca began in earnest during the reign of the emperor Pachacuti, who reigned 1438-1471.
The Incas were most notable for establishing the Inca Empire in pre-Columbian America, which was centered in what is now Peru from 1438 to 1533 C.E. and represented the height of the Inca civilization. Tupac Túpac'inca s empire stretched north into-modern Day ecuador And. Colombia Tupac'túpac inca S Son huayna capac cápac added significant territory. To the south, At its Height tahuantinsuyu Included, peru and bolivia most of What, is now ecuador a large-portion Of, modern day chile and extended Into corners Of. argentina and colombia
The Incas were a civilization in South America formed by ethnic Quechua people also known as Amerindians. In 1400AD they were a small highland tribe, one hundred years later in early the early 16 th century the Incas rose to conquer and control the largest empire ever seen in the Americas forming the great Inca Empire. For the Incas being “Inca” meant being a member of the group identified by that name. They considered themselves superior to the other tribes and being Inca was a source of pride; only descendants of the original tribe were true Inca or children of the Sun.
The Inca civilization flourished in ancient Peru between c. 1400 and 1533 CE, and their empire eventually extended across western South America from Quito in the north to Santiago in the south, making it the largest empire ever seen in the Americas and the largest in the world at that time. As there was no currency in the Inca world, taxes were paid in kind-usually foodstuffs, precious metals, textiles, exotic feathers, dyes, and spondylus shell-but also in labourers who could be shifted about the empire to be used where they were most needed, known as mit'a service.