High blood pressure vs. high heart rate. Some people confuse high blood pressure with a high heart rate. Blood pressure is the measurement of the force of the blood against the walls of arteries, while pulse rate is the number of times your heart beats per minute. A resting heart rate lower than 60 could also be the result of taking certain medications. Many medications people take especially medication for blood pressure, such as the beta blockers, will lower your heart rate, Bauman said. If coupled with symptoms, a low heart rate may signal a problem.
1 Measuring pulse rate does not indicate high or low blood pressure. 2  For people with high blood pressure, there's no substitute for measuring blood pressure. 3  A rising heart rate does not cause your blood pressure to increase at the same rate. 1 Taking your pulse can measure your cardiovascular activity and oxygen consumption but it is not a substitute for measuring your blood pressure. 2  If you take your pulse (measuring your heart rate) before, during and after physical activity, you'll notice your pulse will increase over the course of the exercise.
Measure heart rate and blood pressure 5, 10, and 15 minutes after stopping exercise, and use Page 2 of the experiment file to compare readings. 3. Measure heart rate and blood pressure while lifting a weight with the opposite arm. 4. Design an anonymous survey to be taken by each member of your class. 
Low blood pressure and Slow heart rate (pulse). WebMD Symptom Checker helps you find the most common medical conditions indicated by the symptoms low blood pressure and slow heart rate (pulse) including Low blood pressure (hypotension), Medication reaction or side-effect, and Narcotic abuse. There are 12 conditions associated with low blood pressure and slow heart rate (pulse). The links below will provide you with more detailed information on these medical conditions from the WebMD Symptom Checker and help provide a better understanding of causes and treatment of these related conditions.
1 For people with high blood pressure, there's no substitute for measuring blood pressure. 2  A rising heart rate does not cause your blood pressure to increase at the same rate. 3  Even though your heart is beating more times a minute, healthy blood vessels dilate (get larger) to allow more blood to flow through more easily. 1 Taking your pulse can measure your cardiovascular activity and oxygen consumption but it is not a substitute for measuring your blood pressure. 2  If you take your pulse (measuring your heart rate) before, during and after physical activity, you'll notice your pulse will increase over the course of the exercise.
The normal healthy heartbeat is 60 BPM. The normal resting heart rate in adults is 60 to 90 BPM. Athletes often have been resting-heart rates of below 60 BPM. The low pulse rate in athletes is due to their ability to pump higher volume of blood per beat (i.e. higher stroke volume). The heart rate is the number of times the heart beats in a minute. Blood pressure is the measurement of blood force against on the artery’s walls.
1 A rising heart rate does not cause your blood pressure to increase at the same rate. 2  Even though your heart is beating more times a minute, healthy blood vessels dilate (get larger) to allow more blood to flow through more easily. 3  When you exercise, your heart speeds up so the blood can reach your muscles. 1 Taking your pulse can measure your cardiovascular activity and oxygen consumption but it is not a substitute for measuring your blood pressure. 2  If you take your pulse (measuring your heart rate) before, during and after physical activity, you'll notice your pulse will increase over the course of the exercise.
For people with hypertension, heart rate will not be a substitute for measuring blood pressure. Elevation in heart rate does not cause your blood pressure to elevate at the same proportion, why. It is because even though your heart beat raises; healthy blood vessels dilate (expands) to permit more blood to flow easily. It is possible for your heart rate to double with only a modest rise in blood pressure. The heart rate is the number of times the heart beats in a minute. Blood pressure is the measurement of blood force against on the artery’s walls.
Blood Pressure vs. Heart Rate: Learn the Differences. Your blood pressure and your heart rate do not necessarily correlate, meaning your pulse is not usually a good indicator of either high or low blood pressure. A rising heart rate does not necessarily cause your blood pressure (BP) to increase at the same rate. There are many misconceptions regarding BP and heart rate readings, primarily because the two are usually taken simultaneously by most doctors and by self-monitoring devices that people use at home. 