See the Academy of Breastfeeding Medicine’s protocol #9 on the use of galactogogues. Mothers generally notice an increase in production 24-72 hours after starting the herb, but it can take two weeks for others to see a change. Some mothers do not see a change in milk production when taking fenugreek. 1 Objective: To assess the effect of fenugreek on breast milk production in exclusively breast-pumping women. 2  Methods: Ten women kept diaries of their breast milk production for two weeks. 3  The first week established baseline milk production.
The use of Fenugreek may cause a maple-syrup odor in a mother or baby’s sweat. It can have effects such as lowering blood sugar, and may cause allergy in some sensitive people with a history of asthma. Diabetic or asthmatic or allergic mothers should consult health care providers before using Fenugreek. Fenugreek is used in artificial maple flavorings, and also has a food product. If used to build milk supply, Fenugreek can generally be discontinued after milk supply is increased, as long as a mother can regularly breastfeed or pump.
[…] supplements containing fenugreek that are commonly used to increase milk supply. She mentioned that using fenugreek while breastfeeding can potentially cause peanut allergies in babies when there is a history of food allergy in the family. I used fenugreek and it did make my urine and sweat smell like maple syrup, it also increased my breast milk supply. My baby though got reflux and constipation which may or may not be associated with the fenugreek.
Some believe it is possible because breasts are modified sweat glands, and fenugreek stimulates sweat production. It has been found that fenugreek can increase a nursing mother's milk supply within 24 to 72 hours after first taking the herb. Once an adequate level of milk production is reached, most women can discontinue the fenugreek and maintain the milk supply with adequate breast stimulation. Many women today take fenugreek in a pill form (ground seeds placed in capsules). 
Effect on milk production. Fenugreek (Trigonella foenum-graecum L.) appears to be the herb that is most often used to increase milk supply. It has been reported to be an excellent galactagogue for some mothers, and has been used as such for centuries. 1 Objective: To assess the effect of fenugreek on breast milk production in exclusively breast-pumping women. 2  Methods: Ten women kept diaries of their breast milk production for two weeks. 3  The first week established baseline milk production.
Uses of Fenugreek. 1  One of the biggest fenugreek benefits, is that it is used to increase breastmilk supply. 2  Steeped fenugreek seeds can be used in a poultice for mastitis and engorgement. 3  To treat sinus problems naturally while breastfeeding. 4  To fight infections naturally and safely while breastfeeding. 1 Their urine may change color and smell of maple syrup. 2  Fenugreek and breast milk: Mom’s breast milk may start to smell like maple syrup. 3  Some people may be allergic to fenugreek, which could cause swelling tongue, throat, breathing problems and even hives.
Known side-effects of the use of fenugreek for breastfeeding... 1  People that use fenugreek herbs often smell like curry or maple syrup. 2  Their urine may change color and smell of maple syrup. 3  Fenugreek and breast milk: Mom’s breast milk may start to smell like maple syrup. 1 Their urine may change color and smell of maple syrup. 2  Fenugreek and breast milk: Mom’s breast milk may start to smell like maple syrup. 3  Some people may be allergic to fenugreek, which could cause swelling tongue, throat, breathing problems and even hives.
Yes. Women have used the spice fenugreek since ancient times in the Middle East, North Africa, and India to stimulate milk flow. Research has shown that fenugreek can increase milk production as much as 900 percent, although no one knows exactly how. The oil contained in fenugreek seeds is believed to play a role in boosting milk supply. Sore nipples. Find out what can cause sore nipples in breastfeeding moms and what you can do to ease the pain. Hyperlactation (overabundant milk supply). Find out what you can do when your breast milk comes out so fast and forcibly that it's hard for your baby to nurse.
1 Background: Fenugreek is a popular herb used in the lay population as a galactogogue though scientific research regarding efficacy has not been published. 2  Objective: To assess the effect of fenugreek on breast milk production in exclusively breast-pumping women. 1 Objective: To assess the effect of fenugreek on breast milk production in exclusively breast-pumping women. 2  Methods: Ten women kept diaries of their breast milk production for two weeks. 3  The first week established baseline milk production.