The two most common causes of dysentery are infection with bacteria of the Shigella group, and infection by an ameba called Entamoeba histolytica. They are primarily diseases of the tropics, but may occur in any climate. 
Amebic dysentery has subtypes that are considered contagious and also has subtypes that are not contagious. Generally the disease can be transmitted by saliva, air, cough, fecal-oral route, surfaces, blood, needles, blood transfusions, sexual contact, mother to fetus, etc., but not ALL subtypes. Amebic dysentery, although infectious, is not a genetic disease.
Some of the most common types are amoebic dysentery caused by an amoeba, bacillary or bacterial dysentery caused by a bacillus or bacteria, and many more. In all the cases of dysentery disease or disorder, the symptoms account for a great loss of body fluid which can be fatal in case of acute dysentery. The signs and symptoms of dysentery depend on the kind of dysentery one suffers from. Acute and chronic dysentery are actually the umbrella distinction between the kinds of dysentery. Under their heads fall the different types of dysentery caused by different and distinct causal agents.
In order to know as to how does dysentery spread, one must know for the fact that dysentery is a contagious disease which does not spread directly but relies on other modes of transmission. Bacterial dysentery caused by shigella group of bacteria is the most contagious of all. Lack of hygiene and poor sanitation is one of the most significant causes behind the spread of dysentery. The pathogens of the various kinds of dysentery actually thrive in contaminated food and water. The signs and symptoms of dysentery depend on the kind of dysentery one suffers from. Acute and chronic dysentery are actually the umbrella distinction between the kinds of dysentery. Under their heads fall the different types of dysentery caused by different and distinct causal agents.
Contagion and contagiousness refers to how easily the spread of Amebic dysentery is possible from one person to another. Other words for contagion include infection, infectiousness, transmission or transmissability. Contagiousness has nothing to do with genetics or inheriting diseases from parents. Generally the disease can be transmitted by saliva, air, cough, fecal-oral route, surfaces, blood, needles, blood transfusions, sexual contact, mother to fetus, etc., but not ALL subtypes. Amebic dysentery, although infectious, is not a genetic disease.
Print. Bacillary dysentery, also known as shigellosis, is a potentially dangerous and extremely contagious bacterial infection of the colon. Symptoms develop after an incubation period of one to four days and generally subside within 10 days. (Severe cases may last as long as six weeks, but most cases are mild). What Causes Bacillary Dysentery (Shigellosis)? 1  The shigella bacillus, a bacterium that invades the lining of the colon, is one of several infections that can cause dysentery. 2  Other causes of dysentery include the parasite amoeba and the bacteria E. coli, Yersinia, and others. 3  The shigella bacillus is typically spread via contact with the fecal ...
Amebiasis is a disease caused by the parasite Entamoeba histolytica. It can affect anyone, although it is more common in people who live in tropical areas with poor sanitary conditions. Diagnosis can be difficult because other parasites can look very similar to E. histolytica when seen under a microscope. 
Amoebic dysentery is transmitted through contaminated food and water. Amoebae spread by forming infective cysts which can be found in stools, and spread if whoever touches them does not sanitize their hands. Although it is commonly associated with tropical climates, the first documented case was in St Petersburg, Russia. Amoebic dysentery is often confused with  traveler's diarrhea , or  Montezuma's Revenge  in Mexico, because of the prevalence of both in developing nations. In fact, most traveller's diarrhea is bacterial or viral in origin. Liver infection, and subsequent amoebic abscesses can occur