Osteophytes (bone spurs) are a bony growth or cartilage protrusion that forms in a degenerating joint. Osteophytes can develop as marginal (on the periphery of joints) or central (mostly in the knee and hip). The majority of people over the age of 50 show some type of osteophytes upon radiographical examination. 
Adorable animal families that will make you aww. Osteophytes is the medical name for the overgrowth of bone tissue more commonly called  bone spurs .. Despite the term spurs, they are actually small round lumps of extra bone that grow around joints. Osteophytes are the body’s attempt to compensate for existing bone and ligament degeneration due to age or injury. Osteophytes are most often found along the spine, but they may be present on any bone in the body. Though not a source of pain themselves, they may create pressure on any of the nerves that branch out from the spinal column to result in painful and sometimes debilitating medical conditions.
Osteophytes, commonly referred to as bone spurs or parrot beak, are bony projections that form along joint margins. They should not be confused with enthesophytes, which are bony projections that form at the attachment of a tendon or ligament. Osteophytes form naturally on the back of the spine as a person ages and are a sign of degeneration in the spine. In this case, the spurs are not the source of back pains, but instead are the common symptom of a deeper problem.
An osteophyte, sometimes known as a bone spur, is a small bone prominence that can occur on the joints of the body. The cause of osteophytes depends on the exact condition but are often the result of arthritis or other diseases including bone infections. Although some bone spurs form naturally many will limit the movement of a joint and also cause pain to the patient.
Osteophytes Definition. Lumbar Osteophytes (Bone Spurs) Video. Osteophytes is a term referring to bone spurs, smooth structures that form on the spine over a long period of time. Bone spurs are physical indications that there is degeneration in the spine and become common with age. Osteophytes is a term referring to bone spurs, smooth structures that form on the spine over a long period of time
The medical term for bone spurs is osteophytes, and they represent an enlargement of the normal bony structure. Basically, osteophytes are a radiographic marker of spinal degeneration (aging), which means that they show up on X-rays or MRI scans and are by and large a normal finding as we age. The term bone spurs is really a bit of a misnomer, as the word spurs implies that these bony growths are spurring or poking some part of the spinal anatomy and causing pain.
Osteophytes form because of the increase in a damaged joint's surface area. This is most common from the onset of arthritis. Osteophytes usually limit joint movement and typically cause pain. Osteophytes form naturally on the back of the spine as a person ages and are a sign of degeneration in the spine. In this case, the spurs are not the source of back pains, but instead are the common symptom of a deeper problem.
Bone spurs are bony projections that develop along the edges of bones. Bone spurs (osteophytes) often form where bones meet each other — in your joints. They can also form on the bones of your spine. The main cause of bone spurs is the joint damage associated with osteoarthritis. Most bone spurs cause no symptoms and may go undetected for year
Watch: Lumbar Osteophytes (Bone Spurs) Video. The term bone spurs is really a bit of a misnomer, as the word spurs implies that these bony growths are spurring or poking some part of the spinal anatomy and causing pain. However, contrary to this implication, bone spurs are in fact smooth structures that form over a prolonged period of time