A lot of their progress has been made through science used in space exploration.    What we now know as the internet began as a project by the American Defence Department. They set up DARPA (Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency). All sorts of technologies used in many parts of society, arose out of the space race.    Of course, there is also the amount that we have learned through space exploration about Earth and all that surrounds us, which can be deemed as its primary purpose.
A Flexible Path. This is the beginning of a new era in space exploration in which NASA has been challenged to develop systems and capabilities required to explore beyond low-Earth orbit, including destinations such as translunar space, near-Earth asteroids and eventually Mars. Curiosity and exploration are vital to the human spirit and accepting the challenge of going deeper into space will invite the citizens of the world today and the generations of tomorrow to join NASA on this exciting journey.
A lot of what is in that is down to things devised through space exploration. Without all that technology and major advances that were made through the wide array of projects embarked upon through the space race and related sciences, we wouldn't even be here for us to share this information. All sorts of technologies used in many parts of society, arose out of the space race. Of course, there is also the amount that we have learned through space exploration about Earth and all that surrounds us, which can be deemed as its primary purpose.
Hey guys, i wanna know what you guys think about the purpose of space exploration. Consider the expenses, the risks to human life, technologies developed, jobs that are created, and the knowledge gained from our missions. 
NASA will use the International Space Station as a test-bed and stepping stone for the challenging journey ahead. By building upon what we learn there we will prepare astronauts for the challenges of long-duration flight and the permanent expansion of human exploration beyond where we have been before. Curiosity and exploration are vital to the human spirit and accepting the challenge of going deeper into space will invite the citizens of the world today and the generations of tomorrow to join NASA on this exciting journey.
Space exploration has often been used as a proxy competition for geopolitical rivalries such as the Cold War. The early era of space exploration was driven by a  Space Race  between the Soviet Union and the United States. Spaceflight is the use of space technology to achieve the flight of spacecraft into and through outer space. Spaceflight is used in space exploration, and also in commercial activities like space tourism and satellite telecommunications.
A lot of their progress has been made through science used in space exploration. What we now know as the internet began as a project by the American Defence Department. They set up DARPA (Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency). All sorts of technologies used in many parts of society, arose out of the space race. Of course, there is also the amount that we have learned through space exploration about Earth and all that surrounds us, which can be deemed as its primary purpose.
Space Exploration. the investigation of physical conditions in space and on stars, planets, and other celestial bodies through the use of artificial satellites satellite, artificial,object constructed by humans and placed in orbit around the earth or other celestial body (see also space probe). Space exploration, by its very nature, is a field involving the efforts of all mankind, and even if carried out within the framework of national interests, it affects the interests of many counties.
The mission of the International Space Station is to enable long-term exploration of space and provide benefits to people on Earth. With six state-of-the-art laboratories, the Space Station will be the premiere research facility in space, four times larger and more capable than any previous space station. It is hoped that it will allow for advancements in medicine, technology and science.
The very fact that we are all able to communicate through the internet is down to many technologies that have been developed because of the space age. The computers that originally put man on the moon had nowhere near the capabilities of the ones that we are now using. All sorts of technologies used in many parts of society, arose out of the space race. Of course, there is also the amount that we have learned through space exploration about Earth and all that surrounds us, which can be deemed as its primary purpose.