For the chiles: In a medium saute pan over medium heat, heat the vegetable oil. Add the chicken and cook until it starts to turn white, about 5 minutes. Add the onions and cook until translucent, about 5 minutes. Add the apples, apricots, cranberries, pears, raisins and garlic and cook for 2 minutes. Season with sugar, salt and pepper, and then remove from the heat. Stuff each roasted poblano pepper with one-quarter of the chicken mixture and set aside. For the sauce: In a medium saute pan over medium-low heat, cook the shallots in the vegetable oil until translucent, about 3 minutes.
Illustration: Sam Wiley. A Tip For Peeling Walnuts Before making the chiles en nogada, remove the walnuts' skins; otherwise the sauce will taste bitter. Loosen the skins by boiling the nuts for 5 minutes, then drain the nuts in a colander, and blast them with your sink's spray hose. 
10 most extreme places on Earth. Chiles en nogada is a Mexican dish from the area of Puebla that is made of three distinct parts. The first is a picadillo stuffing, which is a combination of minced meat, fruits and spices. This is stuffed inside a roasted poblano chili that can be battered and fried, depending on the recipe. To assemble chiles en nogada, the chili is first stuffed with the picadillo mixture. It is placed on a serving dish with the cut side facing up and the pepper opened slightly.
Chiles en Nogada, translated, means Chiles in Walnut Sauce. That hardly does the dish justice. It’s a roasted poblano pepper, stuffed with a delicious combination of pork, fruit, vegetables, spices and nuts, and topped with a walnut/cheese sauce. That is, of course, unless someone makes it FOR me. Chiles en Nogada is hands-down my favorite meal, and one I make once a year for a very special dinner with my best girlfriends.
It is a green poblano chili stuffed with a picadillo and covered in a walnut creme sauce and sprinkled with pomegranate seeds. Chiles en Nogada (chilies in walnut sauce) is a classic Mexican dish, and is a specialty of the city of Puebla. 
Chiles en nogada is a dish from Mexican cuisine. The name comes from the Spanish word for the walnut tree, nogal. The traditional chile en nogada is from Puebla; it is tied to the independence of this country since it is said they were prepared for the first time to entertain the emperor Agustin agustín De iturbide when he came to the city after his naming As Agustin. agustín i
The chile en nogada is a traditional Mexican dish made with poblano chiles stuffed with a mixture of meat and dried fruits, covered in walnut sauce, and garnished with pomegranate seeds and parsley. It is said that this dish was invented in the 1800s by nuns in Puebla. History of Chiles en Nogada. They came up with the chile en nogada, which means chile in walnut sauce. Chiles en Nogada Season. Chiles en Nogada is a seasonal dish. It is prepared and eaten during the months of August and September, which is the time of year when the key ingredients, the pomegranates and walnuts, are in season. Chile en nogada season also coincides with Mexican Independence day festivities