Th function is the nucleus its part of your brain! The cell's nucleus controls the cell's structure and functions by controlling protein synthesis. This is due to the fact tha … t the cell nucleus contains DNA, which controls protein synthesis in the cell.
In normal cells, hundreds of genes intricately control the process of cell division. Normal growth requires a balance between the activity of those genes that promote cell proliferation and those that suppress it. It also relies on the activities of genes that signal when damaged cells should undergo apoptosis.
Cancer results from a disruption of the normal regulation of the cell cycle. When the cycle proceeds without control, cells can divide without order and accumulate genetic defects that can lead to a cancerous tumor (illustration).
The nucleus is the part of the cell, or organelle, that contains the genetic material and controls the cell's movement. It consists of the genetic material, the nucleoleus, an … d the nuclear membrane. Nucleus-the nucleus controls all of the cells activities, including how the cell grows,develops,and divides.
The cell structure which controls the activities of the cell is the nucleus. The nucleus contains the genes which give the cell instructions. Other cell parts, such as mitocho … ndria, have other functions. Mitochondria, for example, are where energy is released from food by the process of respiration.
A variety of genes are involved in the control of cell growth and division. The cell cycle is the cell’s way of replicating itself in an organized, step-by-step fashion.
Cancer is unchecked cell growth. Mutations in genes can cause cancer by accelerating cell division rates or inhibiting normal controls on the system, such as cell cycle arrest or programmed cell death. As a mass of cancerous cells grows, it can develop into a tumor.
One of the main controls is called contact inhibition. When a few cells are placed in a dish in nutrient broth, the cells will divide until they have covered the bottom of the dish, then when they are all touching each other, cell division stops.
The cell cycle is an ordered set of events, culminating in cell growth and division into two daughter cells. Non-dividing cells not considered to be in the cell cycle. The stages, pictured to the left, are G1-S-G2-M. The G1 stage stands for GAP 1.