Other white beans include: 1  cannellini, a variety popular in central and southern Italy, which is larger than navy beans, related to the kidney bean and, like the kidney bean, has higher levels of the toxic lectin phytohaemagglutinin. The navy bean, haricot or pearl haricot bean, white pea bean, or pea bean, is a class of the common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris). It is a small, dry white bean which is smaller than many other types of white beans, and has an oval, slightly flattened shape
Best Answer: The versatile cannellini bean can be used interchangeably with other white beans in recipes. A popular bean in Italy, the creamy white cannellini bean is fairly large, about the same size as a kidney bean. Because it maintains its shape well when cooked and has a mellow flavor, the cannellini bean is excellent in many dishes, and can be used interchangeably with other white beans in many recipes. Cannellini beans are sometimes referred to as white kidney beans and are related to navy and great northern beans. This Site Might Help You. RE: Are white beans and cannellini beans the same thing? I am trying to make a recipe that calls for white beans, but I can only find cannellini beans in my grocery store...
Health Benefits of Cannellini Beans. Cannellini beans, particularly popular in Italian cuisine, are large white beans with a firm texture and nutty flavor. They hold their shape well and are therefore used in soups (such as minestrone soup), salads, stews and numerous other healthy dishes. 
Navy beans or haricot beans are particularly popular in the United Kingdom and the United States. Other white beans include cannellini, a popular variety in central and southern Italy that is related to the kidney bean. White beans are the most abundant plant-based source of phosphatidylserine known. In the US, the name pea bean is also used to describe small white beans, and the same name is used for Vigna unguiculata subsp. sesquipedalis, also called yard-long bean and cowpea. The seeds of the British pea bean are bicolored red-brown and white. The plants are a typical climbing bean.
Cannellini Beans. Cannellini Beans: Cannellini Beans are white kidney beans, also known as “Italian white kidney beans” or “fasolia beans.” They are medium sized--about 1/2 inch long—and kidney shaped, with a tough seed coat. Known as a high-quality, inexpensive source of protein and nutrition, they have become diet staples in many cultures and are now widely produced in Asia, Europe and North America. 1  Cannellini beans are related to kidney beans. 2  Cannellini beans are also called white kidney beans. 3  They have a firm texture and skin.
The term “white bean” can be correctly applied to any bean that is white or off-white in color. Most of the time, white beans that are sold commercially, either as seeds or as a food product, are marketed under more specific names, such as navy beans, Great Northerns, or cannellini. 
Before cooking, cannellini beans must be thoroughly rinsed. When cooked, the cannellini bean is fluffy and creamy. They are typically known for their smooth texture and nutty flavor. In recipes that call for the beans, substitutions can be made with great northern or white navy beans. Called for cannellini beans. Was pretty sure they were a white bean but had no idea what to look for in one of our huge supermarkets which you would think would have everything! Alas! No cannellini beans -- in cans or bags.
Cannellini Beans are members of the larger family of legumes, plants used for their edible seeds and pods that boast a high nutrient density with low-maintenance production and storage. They contain high levels of protein, essential minerals and fiber while maintaining a low level of fats. Known as a high-quality, inexpensive source of protein and nutrition, they have become diet staples in many cultures and are now widely produced in Asia, Europe and North America. 1  Cannellini beans are related to kidney beans. 2  Cannellini beans are also called white kidney beans. 3  They have a firm texture and skin.