After installed Recuva, run the software. Make sure your SD card is recognized by computer. Select Recuva to scan the SD card. It should see your deleted photos and let you recover them. If this method did not work or you need more help, please reply back to continue our conversation. If you do not require further assistance, kindly rate my service.
All you have to do is select they type of file you want to recover (photos, emails, videos, etc.) and where it's likely to be (recycle bin, on a media card, etc.). As soon as Recuva's finished, you'll see a list with all the recoverable files, which you can sort in several ways or search with a customizable filter tool. With Recuva (pronounced as recover) you can restore files that have been accidentally deleted from the computer, a USB drive, an MP3 player or even a memory card from your photo camera. A very handy recovery wizard takes all the guesswork out of finding your files.
The main advantage of the portable version is that you can install it on an external drive without overwriting any of the free space on your hard drive that may contain exactly the data that you're trying to recover. View all 8 photos in gallery Recover with Recuva Both versions of Recuva work the same way. A wizard interface asks you whether you want to recover specific types of deleted files, such as pictures, music, or emails, or whether you want the program to find any and all deleted files. 
Recover Deleted Files On Your Android. Perhaps you deleted something accidentally or maybe you changed your mind after deleting something. Whatever the reason, sometimes you want to undo deleting a file on your device. Here’s how. Note: This will probably result in you having duplicates of the files you recovered. Can be somewhat bothersome but its usually better than not having them at all.
Install Recuva and use it to scan your Android device’s storage for the files you would like to recover. When you start Recuva you will see the following screen: Then, Recuva will ask you which file types to scan for. Whatever the reason, sometimes you want to undo deleting a file on your device. Here’s how. Note: This will probably result in you having duplicates of the files you recovered. Can be somewhat bothersome but its usually better than not having them at all.
Unfortunately, Android disabled USB Mass storage with version 4.4.2. There are tools that can scan your phone from your Windows PC and recover files, but they’re not as quick and easy (or as free) as Recuva. Your best bet is probably EASEus’ MobiSaver for Android. Install this program in Windows, connect your phone, and follow the directions. 1 Get a Dropbox account, and install the app on your phone (Android or iOS). 2  Turn on the Camera Upload feature (you’ll find it in Dropbox’ Settings). 3  Your photos will automatically upload to your Dropbox whenever the phone has a Wi-Fi connection.
Now its time to see the result. 8. It will show all the deleted files (Recuva doesn’t disappoint me. It shows more than 122 deleted files including the file I was looking for). To retrieve the file, check the box next to file name and click on “Recover” button. 9. Select the folder where you want to recover your file. Now suppose you want to scan for deleted music. You don’t need to go back and start the process again. Just click on “ Switch to advance mode ” button in the opened Recuva Window. In the advanced mode you can select any drive and media types from the drop down.
Superior file recovery. Recuva can recover pictures, music, documents, videos, emails or any other file type you’ve lost. And it can recover from any rewriteable media you have: memory cards, external hard drives, USB sticks and more! No problem-Recuva recovers files from your Windows computer, recycle bin, digital camera card, or MP3 player!
From Piriform: Recuva (pronounced recover) is a freeware Windows utility to restore files that have been accidentally deleted from your computer. This includes files emptied from the Recycle bin as well as images and other files that have been deleted by user error from digital camera memory cards or MP3 players. Recuva undeletes files; recovers data from corrupted, damaged, and reformatted discs; restores unsaved Word documents; and securely deletes files so they're unrecoverable, even by Recuva.