Ringworm is a type of infection that can live in the hair follicles, skin or nails. These infections are not caused by a worm, but rather are the work of a fungus. These contagious fungi, called dermatophytes, can be transmitted between people, between animals, from animals to people and via contaminated objects. Ringworm infections are very common and especially prevalent among people who are in close contact, such as day cares, schools and gym
Ringworm is a very common infection on the skin that is caused by a fungus, not a worm as its name suggests. Ringworm is also called tinea, and it has different names depending upon what body part is affected. Jock itch is ringworm of the groin; athlete's foot is ringworm of the foot. It is called ringworm because the infection can produce ring-shaped patches on the skin that have red, wormlike edges. A doctor diagnoses ringworm by looking at the rash and where it is on the body. Sometimes scrapings of the skin are sent to a laboratory. Ringworm can sometimes look like other skin rashes such as contact dermatitis – a reaction of the skin that occurs when skin comes in contact with something like poison ivy
Ringworm is very contagious. Ringworm can be transferred from person to person by direct contact (skin to skin) and also by indirect contact such as touching an infected person's clothing or even by touching a bench or other object that has contacted an infected person's skin. Ringworm is a rash caused by a fungus in the skin. Ringworm is caused by various genera and species of fungi (for examples, Trichophyton species, Epidermophyton species).
Long as rash lasts: Ringworm is a fungus infection. It is common and spreads fairly easily. It is contagious for as long as you have the rash on your skin. ...Read more. 73,000 doctors available. Doctors are standing by 24/7 for advice, treatment or prescriptions. 
If you are wondering how long ringworm is contagious for, then the answer is that it is only contagious as long as you don’t treat it. Once treatment starts, it stops spreading within a period of 24 – 48 hours. If it is a mild infection it is easy to contain and treat. While being treated, ringworm is contagious only up to 48 hours and stops being contagious after that. If you are wrestling, then it is advised to stop it till the infection completely cured. You needn’t worry about ringworm being contagious during treatment. It takes about 3 – 4 weeks for the infection to clear up.
Animals can also be affected by ringworm and may transmit the condition to humans. In this case, ringworm is an example of a zoonotic disease, or a disease transmitted from animals to humans. Although catsare affected by ringworm more than dogs, dogs are also commonly affected. Ringworm occurs in people of all ages, but it is particularly common in children. It occurs most often in warm, moist climates. Ringworm is contagious and can be passed from person to person by contact with infected skin areas or by sharing combs and brushes, other personal care items, or clothing. It is also possible to become infected with ringworm after coming in contact with locker room or pool surfaces
Ringworm is not caused by a worm. It is caused by a fungus. The kinds of fungi (plural of fungus) that cause ringworm live and spread on the top layer of the skin and on the hair. They grow best in warm, moist areas, such as locker rooms and swimming pools, and in skin folds. Ringworm is contagious. It spreads when you have skin-to-skin contact with a person or animal that has it. It can also spread when you share things like towels, clothing, or sports gear. You can also get ringworm by touching an infected dog or cat, although this form of ringworm is not common
Ringworm is contagious and spreads through contact with an infected person, pet or object. If you are wondering how contagious it is, then it is extremely contagious. Ringworm is so contagious that there needn’t be a direct contact for the infection to spread. While being treated, ringworm is contagious only up to 48 hours and stops being contagious after that. If you are wrestling, then it is advised to stop it till the infection completely cured. You needn’t worry about ringworm being contagious during treatment. It takes about 3 – 4 weeks for the infection to clear up.