They provide 26 seats in 2+1 formation in first class and 174 seats in 2+2 formation in standard class. The formation of a four-car Class 220 is as follows: 1  604## - Coach A - 26 seats-First Class with disabled area, train manager office, first class catering area and driving cab. 2  Toilet. They are fitted with Dellner couplers, like the Class 222, operated by East Midlands Trains and the Class 390 Pendolino electric trains used by Virgin West Coast meaning they can be coupled in rescue/recovery mode (air brake only) in the event of a failure.
The Super Voyager was one of three trains to be damaged by the container doors,also involved was a Class 390 and a Class 185. Cross Country 'Super Voyager' 221 131 derailed between Arbroath and Montrose on Sunday 4 November 2012 blocking another line. The Class 221 are similar to the Class 220 Voyager units, but they were built with a tilting mechanism enabling up to six degrees of tilt to allow higher speeds on curved tracks, most have 5 coaches, and they have a different bogie design. They have a maximum speed of 125 mph (200 km/h).
Both the Voyager 220 and Tilting Super Voyager 221 are included, each in five liveries, and the Super Voyager 221 features switchable tilting round high-speed curves! Voyager Advanced features the Voyager 220 and Tilting Super Voyager 221, each in five liveries, with advanced operating controls, realistic systems and authentic sounds. T
Our Pendolino and Super Voyager trains make your journeys faster, easier and awesome-r in every way. We’re talking 125mph top speeds, ‘tilting’ mechanisms to whizz even faster around corners, and cooler paint jobs than anything else on two rails. It beats getting stuck in a traffic jam, or enduring the airport. Find your seat. As Confucius probably said, Plan ahead, enjoy journey. That's especially true if you've got a disability or you're carrying something bulky. Like a tuba. To help you plan, this page is where you can see the layout of our trains and carriages. It'll show where your bikes and luggage go. Not to mention where you can get a cuppa. Plus, it's handy to know where the nearest loos and power points are. We run two kinds of train, Pendolino and Super Voyager
See also: Bombardier Voyager family. The Class 221 Super Voyager is a class of British diesel-electric multiple-unit express trains built in Bruges, Belgium, by Bombardier Transportation between 2001 and 2002, entering service on 12 April 2002. The Class 221 are similar to the Class 220 Voyager units, but they were built with a tilting mechanism enabling up to six degrees of tilt to allow higher speeds on curved tracks, most have 5 coaches, and they have a different bogie design. They have a maximum speed of 125 mph (200 km/h).
In a similar way to the Voyager trains, their successor the Super Voyager is in service with CrossCountry and for Virgin Trains between Birmingham and Brighton. The 44 four and five section diesel electric drive units were delivered in 2002. A second innovation with regard to the successful Voyager vehicles is that the Super Voyager is fitted with tilting technology. In addition to reduced running noise and reduced wear in operation this new generation also realizes a reduction in journey times.
They are leased to the train operating companies; as of 2013, CrossCountry is the only operator of Class 220 units. Virgin Trains was the sole operator of Class 220 Voyager trains when they were introduced in 2001, via their Virgin West Coast and Virgin CrossCountry franchises. They are fitted with Dellner couplers, like the Class 222, operated by East Midlands Trains and the Class 390 Pendolino electric trains used by Virgin West Coast meaning they can be coupled in rescue/recovery mode (air brake only) in the event of a failure.
Bombardier and Virgin brand Super Voyager train. 2 September 2010 • Author: Bombardier Transportation. Bombardier and Virgin Trains have revealed a Super Voyager train jointly branded and with the theme “more trains, fewer cars, greener planet”. At a ceremony at one of the train’s maintenance facilities, the unit was also named “Polmadie Depot”. The proven Super Voyager fleet has been in service with Virgin since 1999 and has one of the highest reliability records for inter city trains. The branding is to celebrate the excellent partnership working between Bombardier, who built and maintains the trains, and Virgin Trains, their operator. Rail travel is recognised as one of the most environmentally-friendly form of transportation, prompting the theme of