Karen: you can sanity check heating oil usage rates if you know the GPH rating of your oil burner nozzle. If your burner uses a 1 GPH nozzle and IF the burner is staying on 50% of the time (for example in very cold weather or in a house with a high heat loss rate), your system will be using 12 gallons of oil per day. So if you know your oil tank size (say 500 gallons) you can make a very rough guess at how much oil is in the oil tank-say 125 gallons. I'd round down to 100 to be on the safe side since the tank is probably round or oval.
Not only do customers who choose Automatic Delivery get a $0.05 per gallon discount, they never have to ask how long will my heating oil last, because they know Tevis will deliver when their tank is between 1/4 and 1/3 full. In addition, we strongly suggest you keep your heating oil level above 30 gallons. The chart below uses 25 gallons for easy conversion to other oil quantities.
Heating oil storage tank life expectancy: How long do above ground or buried oil tanks last: oil storage tank life expectancy. This article provides estimates of oil storage tank life for buried oil tanks and above ground oil storage tanks. In New England for a two year period [1984-5] among customers who had buried heating oil tanks (16% of total customers) surveyors found an average of 1.7 tank leaks per thousand customers.
Heating oil usage rate calculations: how to determine the rate of home heating oil consumption: This article describes how long you can heat your building with a known amount of heating oil in the tank, or how to determine how fast your heating oil consumption is likely to empty the heating oil tank. So if you know your oil tank size (say 500 gallons) you can make a very rough guess at how much oil is in the oil tank-say 125 gallons. I'd round down to 100 to be on the safe side since the tank is probably round or oval.
How long a tank or part of a tank of heating oil will last at a building depends on the following variables: 1  The size of the oil tank and how much oil it contains at the time that you ask this question. So if you know your oil tank size (say 500 gallons) you can make a very rough guess at how much oil is in the oil tank-say 125 gallons. I'd round down to 100 to be on the safe side since the tank is probably round or oval.
If you do not uses more that 12 gallons a day, you will be fine. If you are using over 12 gallons a day, you would be filling your tanks every two weeks. I think you are going to be fine waiting for Wednesday. One hint, if you get really low and are worried, you can buy diesel fuel and put it in your heating oil tank. The only difference is the die in the road diesel. For example, if you usually have to buy oil once a month, and you buy 150 gallons that would meant that you average 5 gallons a day usage (150 gallons divided by 30 days) You have a little under 50 gallons left in your tanks.
In most cases, you will find that you have an oil storage tank that will hold 275 gallons of oil. A traditional fill of the tank will usually include 245 gallons, this accounts for air and debris on the bottom of the tank. To the right is a handy chart that will help you keep track of how much fuel is in your tank based on the reading of the gauge. How long will a 1/2 tank of oil last? That depends on the efficiency of your boiler or furnace, size of your home, water heater use, and the temperature of your home.
1 The size of the oil tank and how much oil it contains at the time that you ask this question. 2  You said that your oil tank gauge was at 1/4 full. 3  If the oil tank were a perfect rectangle, that would mean that if your tank was a 500 gallon tank, you have 1/4 x 500 or 125 gallons of oil remaining. So if you know your oil tank size (say 500 gallons) you can make a very rough guess at how much oil is in the oil tank-say 125 gallons. I'd round down to 100 to be on the safe side since the tank is probably round or oval.