Silicon is a chemical element with symbol Si and atomic number 14. It is a tetravalent metalloid, more reactive than germanium, the metalloid directly below it in the table. Controversy about silicon's character dates to its discovery; it was first prepared and characterized in pure form in 1823. Silicon is the eighth most common element in the universe by mass, but very rarely occurs as the pure free element in nature. It is most widely distributed in dusts, sands, planetoids, and planets as various forms of silicon dioxide (silica) or silicates.
Silicon (Si) is one of the most important semiconductors today because it has a very low occurance of defects. While it's the building block of most electronic devices, other semiconductors are becoming more important in industry because of their superior properties. Nanometer-scale semiconductor particles can emit light of different colors depending on their size. Semiconductors are also used to fabricate solar cells because they absorb light and generate a current. Silicon-based solar cells are currently the most popular cells used.
Although most free silicon is used in the steel refining, aluminium-casting, and fine chemical industries (often to make fumed silica integrated circuits, the basis of most computers, a great deal of modern technology depends on it. Silicon is the eighth most common element in the universe by mass, but very rarely occurs as the pure free element in nature. It is most widely distributed in dusts, sands, planetoids, and planets as various forms of silicon dioxide (silica) or silicates.
Although some pure elements and many compounds display semiconductor properties, silicon, germanium, and compounds of gallium are the most widely used in electronic devices. Elements near the so-called metalloid staircase, where the metalloids are located on the periodic table, are usually used as semiconductors. The semiconductor materials used in electronic devices are doped under precise conditions to control the concentration and regions of p-and n-type dopants. A single semiconductor crystal can have many p-and n-type regions; the p–n junctions between these regions are responsible for the useful electronic behaviour.
When a doped semiconductor contains mostly free holes it is called p-type, and when it contains mostly free electrons it is known as n-type. The semiconductor materials used in electronic devices are doped under precise conditions to control the concentration and regions of p-and n-type dopants. A single semiconductor crystal can have many p-and n-type regions; the p–n junctions between these regions are responsible for the useful electronic behaviour.
Anything that's computerized or uses radio waves depends on semiconductors. Today, most semiconductor chips and transistors are created with silicon. You may have heard expressions like Silicon Valley and the silicon economy, and that's why -- silicon is the heart of any electronic device. A diode is the simplest possible semiconductor device, and is therefore an excellent beginning point if you want to understand how semiconductors work
Silicon is actually not the most optimal electronic material, but it is used instead of other materials with better electronic properties because it is cheap and extremely abundant. In fact, Si is the eighth most abundant element on earth (albeit, you need to do processing beforehand). Semiconductor materials have properties in that sweet middle spot that's just right. Silicon is an example of such a semiconductor. It is not the best electronic material, but it is good enough.
A hole has a positive electric charge, equal and opposite to the charge on an electron. In a semiconductor material, the flow of holes occurs in a direction opposite to the flow of electrons. Elemental semiconductors include antimony, arsenic, boron, carbon, germanium, selenium, silicon, sulfur, and tellurium. Silicon is the best-known of these, forming the basis of most integrated circuits (IC s). Common semiconductor compounds include gallium arsenide, indium antimonide, and the oxides of most metals. 
Silicon sits next to aluminum and below carbon in the periodic table. Carbon, silicon and germanium (germanium, like silicon, is also a semiconductor) have a unique property in their electron structure -- each has four electrons in its outer orbital. This allows them to form nice crystals. The four electrons form perfect covalent bonds with four neighboring atoms, creating a lattice. Today, most semiconductor chips and transistors are created with silicon. You may have heard expressions like Silicon Valley and the silicon economy, and that's why -- silicon is the heart of any electronic device.