Frank Oz. Frank Oz (born Frank Richard Oznowicz; born May 25, 1944) is an English-born American director, puppeteer, actor, and filmmaker. His career began as a puppeteer, where he performed the Muppet characters of Miss Piggy and Fozzie Bear in The Muppet Show, and Cookie Monster, Bert, and Grover in Sesame Street. He is also known for being the puppeteer and voice of Yoda in the Star Wars films
It was during the first season that Cookie Monster got his name and began using the growly vernacular (e.g., Me eat cookie!) that would become part of his character. His signature song,  C Is For Cookie , was first aired during the 1971–72 season, and became one of the best-known songs from Sesame Street. The book Jim Henson's Designs and Doodles explains Cookie Monster's origin as follows: In 1966, Henson drew three monsters that ate cookies and appeared in a General Foods commercial that featured three crunchy snack foods: Wheels, Crowns and Flutes.
Early Life. Wally Amos, famed entrepreneur and founder of the Famous Amos chocolate chip cookie brand, was born Wallace Amos Jr. on July 1, 1936, in Tallahassee, Florida. Following his parents' separation in 1948, Amos was sent to New York City to live with his Aunt Della, who often baked homemade chocolate chip and pecan cookies. 
In a 2007 appearance on Martha Stewart 's TV program, Cookie Monster explained his new philosophy that Cookies are a sometimes food.. On February 10, 2008, NPR host Elizabeth Blair interviewed Cookie Monster for the All Things Considered segment In Character. The book Jim Henson's Designs and Doodles explains Cookie Monster's origin as follows: In 1966, Henson drew three monsters that ate cookies and appeared in a General Foods commercial that featured three crunchy snack foods: Wheels, Crowns and Flutes.
Since Sesame Street' s format changes in the 2002-2003 season, Cookie Monster has hosted a regular segment called  Letter of the Day . In each episode he is presented with a cookie, upon which is written the letter of the day, in icing (and later, actual foam letters). In a 2004 Sesame Street episode, Cookie Monster revealed in song that before he started eating cookies (and became Cookie Monster), he was called Sid. In an interview with NPR, Cookie Monster explained he eats everything, demonstrating by eating his headset and a plate of broccoli
Edd Byrnes (born July 30, 1933) is an American actor best known for his starring role in the television series 77 Sunset Strip. In 1974, Byrnes hosted the pilots of Wheel of Fortune. As a tribute to his enduring celebrity and his iconic Kookie character, Edd Byrnes has ranked #5 in TV Guide's list of TV's 25 Greatest Teen Idols (23 January 2005 issue).
Judi West was born on December 15, 1942 in the USA. She is an actress, known for The Fortune Cookie (1966), A Man Called Gannon (1968) and Fantabulous Inc. (1967). She was previously married to John Rubinstein. See full bio ». 
Oz is known for his work as a puppeteer, performing with Jim Henson 's Muppets. His characters have included Miss Piggy, Fozzie Bear, Animal, and Sam Eagle on The Muppet Show, and Grover, Cookie Monster and Bert on Sesame Street. His career began as a puppeteer, where he performed the Muppet characters of Miss Piggy and Fozzie Bear in The Muppet Show, and Cookie Monster, Bert, and Grover i
He took the cookie and from then on he was Cookie Monster. Cookie Monster, still unnamed, made his Sesame Street debut in the first episode, interfering with Kermit the Frog 's famous W lecture by eating a model W bit by bit. He turns it into an N, a V, and finally an I, to Kermit's frustration. The book Jim Henson's Designs and Doodles explains Cookie Monster's origin as follows: In 1966, Henson drew three monsters that ate cookies and appeared in a General Foods commercial that featured three crunchy snack foods: Wheels, Crowns and Flutes.