American Goldfinch: 5 in size. The Goldfinch is a small, yellowish bird. In the summer, the male is bright yellow, with a black cap and black wings. The female is olive-yellow, with black wings. In the winter, the male Goldfinch's color fades and he looks very similar to the female. Food: Weed seeds and tree seeds are the favorite food of Goldfinches
I just saw a gorgeous bright yellow/gold bird of medium size in my yard. It is not a finch or chickadee (I don't think) cause it looks larger. Not as big as a robin tho. 
Western Tanager: Medium-sized tanager with brilliant red head, bright yellow body, black back, wings, and tail. Wings have two bars: upper bar is yellow, lower bar is white. Legs and feet are gray. Flame-colored Tanager: Tropical tanager, flame red-orange body, black wings with white wing bars and spots, black-streaked back. Face has pale gray-tinged ear patch bordered with black. Female is olive-green above, olive-yellow below, and has black wings. Bill is gray, legs, feet are black
The male of the species is jet black with a bright yellow beak, though the beak colour is more brown on younger birds. The female bird is similar in size but its plumage is brown in colour. The Blackcap is a small bird in the warbler family, the male having a black cap and a greyish under body with a brownish grey back, grey wings and a grey tail, while the female has a brown cap and a brownish body.
American Goldfinch: Male is a small, noisy finch with a bright yellow body, black cap, wings, and tail, and white rump and undertail coverts. Wings have flashy white patches and bright yellow shoulder bar. Bill is pink and conical. Flame-colored Tanager: Tropical tanager, flame red-orange body, black wings with white wing bars and spots, black-streaked back. Face has pale gray-tinged ear patch bordered with black. Female is olive-green above, olive-yellow below, and has black wings. Bill is gray, legs, feet are black
Yellow Warbler by Tom Tetzner, USFWS. The yellow warbler is 4 1/2 – 5 inches in length, with a sharp, fine bill. Its body is all yellow, with yellow-green wings, yellow wing bars, and yellow tail patches. The male has bright chestnut-red streaks on its breast. Its black eye is outlined by a thin yellow eye ring. 
SUMMARY. American Goldfinch: Male is a small, noisy finch with a bright yellow body, black cap, wings, and tail, and white rump and undertail coverts. Wings have flashy white patches and bright yellow shoulder bar. Bill is pink and conical. Female is duller with olive back and lacks black cap and yellow shoulder bars. Overview. American Goldfinch: Male is a small, noisy finch with a bright yellow body, black cap, wings, and tail, and white rump and undertail coverts. Wings have flashy white patches and bright yellow shoulder bar. Bill is pink and conical. Female is duller with olive back and lacks black cap and yellow shoulder bars.
One bird that is similar to a budgie is a canary, which is bright yellow in colour, as is in the phrase 'canary yellow'. 