Gastric sleeve surgery, or vertical sleeve gastrectomy, is one of the newer types of bariatric surgery. This surgery can also be referred to medically as gastric sleeve resection, sleeve gastrectomy, tube gastrectomy or laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy. 
Sleeve gastrectomy, or gastric sleeve, is a surgical weight-loss procedure in which the stomach is reduced to about 15% of its original size, by surgical removal of a large portion of the stomach, following the major curve. The costs of bariatric surgery depend on the type of procedure performed and method of payment along with location-specific factors including geographical region, surgical practice and hospital in which the surgery is performed.
However, research is emerging that suggests bariatric surgery could be appropriate for those with a BMI of 35 to 40 with no comorbidities or a BMI of 30 to 35 with significant comorbidities. The most recent ASMBS guidelines suggest the position statement on consensus for BMI as indication for bariatric surgery. The costs of bariatric surgery depend on the type of procedure performed and method of payment along with location-specific factors including geographical region, surgical practice and hospital in which the surgery is performed.
View Full Transcript. Your surgeon will perform bariatric surgery if your weight loss efforts through lifestyle changes and medications have been unsuccessful. There are two types of bariatric surgery. Restrictive procedures decrease the size of the stomach so a person feels full quickly. After surgery, the stomach holds about one cup of food. A normal stomach holds 4 to 6 cups. Malabsorptive procedures decrease the absorption of calories in the small intestine.
Gastric bypass and other weight-loss surgeries are done when diet and exercise haven't worked or when you have serious health problems because of your weight. There are many types of weight-loss surgery, known collectively as bariatric surgery. Gastric bypass is one of the most common types of bariatric surgery in the United States. Many surgeons prefer gastric bypass surgery because it generally has fewer complications than do other weight-loss surgeries. Still, all forms of weight-loss surgery, including gastric bypass, are major procedures that can pose serious risks and side effects. Also, you must make permanent healthy changes to your diet and get regular exercise to help ensure the long-term success of bariatric surgery
A. Regular exercise is extremely important for maintaining your weight loss. Your bariatric surgery team will help you with the types of exercise you should be doing, and how soon after surgery you should start doing them. 
Weight loss is achieved by reducing the size of the stomach with a gastric band or through removal of a portion of the stomach (sleeve gastrectomy or biliopancreatic diversion with duodenal switch) or by resecting and re-routing the small intestine to a small stomach pouch (gastric bypass surgery). The costs of bariatric surgery depend on the type of procedure performed and method of payment along with location-specific factors including geographical region, surgical practice and hospital in which the surgery is performed.
Roux-en-Y gastric bypass surgery is the most common weight loss surgery, accounting for about 80% of all weight loss surgeries in the U.S. The procedure has two parts: 
Let us know... Bariatric Mexico is proud now to be one of the only providers that offers not one but TWO Bariatric Surgeons of excellence with your surgeon of choice taking the lead to perform your Gastric Laparoscopic Bariatric surgery. 
Lap Band® vs. Gastric Bypass. The Lap Band® procedure and gastric bypass are the two most commonly performed types of bariatric surgery (weight loss surgery), and both can lead to a significant reduction in body mass index (BMI). 