If you want to scan everything on your hard drive, you choose Custom Scan and select the whole drive. Running this scan on my standard clean test system took 26 minutes, which is about average. Malwarebytes Anti-Rootkit used to be a separate product. It's now simply a part of the antivirus. Note that rootkit scanning is turned off by default, as it makes scans take longer.
Malwarebytes recommends the Threat Scan as the best option. There will be a major update in a few weeks that will fix about 30 bugs and hopefully it will help on the scan times. I have 2.0.1.1004 installed on 2 W7 and 1 W8.1 system and my scan times are very good. I just had to update to MBAM 2.0.1 because my last installation of MBAM got corrupted somehow. Doing my weekly scan has turned into something hilarious. What used to take four hours with the old MBAM is now on its 23rd hour, and it's still only checking filesystem objects.
You can definitely run a full scan once a week and be very safe. The quick scan finds 99.99999999% of all infections and our researchers never have to use a full scan to remove any malware. We've completely removed the full scan out of 2.0 and named it the custom scan for this very reason. We've also renamed the quick scan to be a threat scan so it's more clear
Rootkit scan or not. PUM/PUP scans. Other security programs running at the same time that may potentially be monitoring all file accesses by any other process. Drive integrity-if a drive is failing it can take a long time to ignore and bypass sectors on a disk or simply fail period and hang the scan. I just had to update to MBAM 2.0.1 because my last installation of MBAM got corrupted somehow. Doing my weekly scan has turned into something hilarious. What used to take four hours with the old MBAM is now on its 23rd hour, and it's still only checking filesystem objects.
Posted. I attempted to run a full scan on my C drive using Malwarebytes but gave up after 15 hours. Yes, that's right I said 15 hours. I started the scan around 1:20pm and finally got fed up and turned it off around 6:20am. The speed of an anti-virus or anti-malware scan depends on a variety of factors. To speed up your scans, clean out the temporary files or use ATF Cleaner first, close all open programs, do not use the computer during the scan and then make sure you only do a Quick Scan.
Posted. I have a lot less ram than you do and have never had a Malwarebytes scan take anywhere near that long. A quick scan takes less than ten minutes and it seem like the full scan takess about an hour on my system. The speed of an anti-virus or anti-malware scan depends on a variety of factors. To speed up your scans, clean out the temporary files or use ATF Cleaner first, close all open programs, do not use the computer during the scan and then make sure you only do a Quick Scan.
· just now. Report Abuse. the more files the longer the scan, I have one system with a 250GB hard drive, and 90GB available, it takes between 4 and 6 hours to complete a full scan, I run it over night when I am sleeping My recommendation is to run the scan in Safe Mode, and use rkill to close open procs if necessary. I googled it and it said downloading and using Malwarebytes was the best thing to to. Does anyone... show more I've got 156.4GB for it to scan out of my 223GB possible. I don't know what my ram is. I've got a virus that keeps opening Windows Command Processor and saying it wants access to my system or something. I googled it and it said ...
How long does malwarebytes anti malware take to run? That would depend on how many files you have on your computer and the size of your hard drive. The quick scan can take anywhere from 3 to 6 minutes and the full scan can take anywhere to 1 to 4 hours or longer depending on how much it has to scan. DangerousStorm70 · 6 years ago. Thumbs up.