Homeostatic Imbalances. Homeostatic Imbalances Hypertension is the term used to describe high blood pressure. Blood pressure is a measurement of the force against the walls of your arteries as your heart pumps blood through your body. Blood pressure readings are usually given as two numbers -- for example, 120 over 80 (written..
It is most commonly known as high blood pressure. The body system that is involved is the cardiovascular system. The organ that is involved is the heart. The causes for homeostatic imbalance in hypertension are medication, weight, smoking, heredity, drinking, external stressors, age, disease, and race. 
The list of imbalances in hemostasis that can lead to hypertension is extremely long. Several things can lead to hypertension also known as high blood pressure. Most of these imbalances are attributed to the diet one carries out. For example a high salt intake or NACL raises blood pressure. This is because pressure is increased as your kidneys work to remove water the sodium in salt holds it thus putting pressure on your blood vessels. A high glucose level in your blood is also another cause of hypertension. When one consumes sugar or also glucose the result is the pancreas releasing an enzyme known as insulin when too much insulin is released it has an inflammatory effect on the body causing the linings of the blood vessels to swell up.
Hypertension (high blood pressure) is a medical condition in which the blood pressure is chronically elevated. Hypertension is one of the major risk factors for strokes, heart attacks, heart failure and aneurysms and is a leading cause of chronic renal (kidney) failure. Even moderate elevation of arterial blood pressure leads to a shortened life expectancy.
Hypertension. ﻿ Hypertension Hypertension, or high blood pressure, is when the force of the blood against your artery walls is high enough to possibly cause health problems. Hypertension is a result of homeostatic imbalance; the imbalance can be cause by internal or external factors, in the cardiovascular system... Homeostatic Imbalances Hypertension is the term used to describe high blood pressure. Blood pressure is a measurement of the force against the walls of your arteries as your heart pumps blood through your body.
The homeostatic imbalance that causes hypertension is a possible reaction to medication, or a shock. Also weight is a factor, and inactivity. Other factors are drinking and smoking. Internal and external stressors also affect homeostasis, which in turns causes Hypertension. The organ system it involves is the cardiovascular system. It also affects the eyes, kidneys, brain and the aorta. The homeostatic imbalance that causes Diabetes is when the body does not produce enough or overproduces the hormone insulin and sometimes glucagon. Another cause is when a person’s body possesses nonfunctional receptor sites within target cells that cause the body to become insensitive to these same chemicals
The homeostatic imbalance that reasons hypertension is a possible reception to medication, or a shock. Also weight is a factor, and inactivity. other factors are drinking and smoking. Internal and external stressors similarly postulate homeostasis, which in turns causes Hypertension. The organ system it involves is the cardiovascular system. The homeostatic imbalance that causes Diabetes is when the body does not parent enough or overproduces the hormone insulin and sometimes glucagon. Another cause is when a persons body possesses nonfunctional sense organ sites within target cells that cause the body to become insensitive to these same chemicals.
High blood pressure (hypertension) which is what you have is when the reading is at least 140/90 or higher. One negative feedback system that helps regulate in blood pressure with negative feedback system(homeostatic imbalance) is when the heart beats faster or harder, blood pressure increases. Homeostatic regulation of blood pressure by a negative feedback system the response is fed back into the system, and the system continues to lower blood pressure until there is a return to normal blood pressure (homeostasis).
Hypertension is the term used to describe high blood pressure. Blood pressure is a measurement of the force against the walls of your arteries as your heart pumps blood through your body. Blood pressure readings are usually given as two numbers -- for example, 120 over 80 (written as 120/80 mmHg). Homeostatic regulation of blood pressure by a negative feedback system the response is fed back into the system, and the system continues to lower blood pressure until there is a return to normal blood pressure (homeostasis).