The Illuminati (plural of Latin illuminatus, enlightened) is a name given to several groups, both real and fictitious. Historically, the name usually refers to the Bavarian Illuminati, an Enlightenment-era secret society founded on May 1, 1776. The society's goals were to oppose superstition, obscurantism, religious influence over public life and abuses of state power.
The combination of the All-Seeing Eye floating in a capstone over a 13-step unfinished pyramid is the most popular Illuminati symbols and by far the most recognizable symbol of the Illuminati. The eye represents the Illuminati ruling from their position on the capstone of the pyramid. They are very few at the top while we are many at the bottom. The all-seeing eye on the pyramid was added to the reverse side of the Great Seal of the United States and finally adopted by Congress in 1782.
Hand signs of the Illuminati can be flashed in public by puppet world leaders and celebrities while the unsuspecting masses remain ignorant. Like Illuminati symbols, only Illuminati insiders are aware of the true meanings hidden behind the signs, hand gestures or semaphores. The Roc Sign is made by holding out your palms while touching both your thumbs and index fingers forming a triangle. The pyramid is an important Illuminati symbol showing their few ruling the many on the bottom type power structure.
Top Ten Illuminati Symbols. “The point in the centre of a Circle is equal to the point at the tip of the Triangle, and this Glyph is equivalent to the Eye; the two are synonymous.”. Edit: September, 2014: The signs ‘El Diablo’and the Nazi Salute have been moved to Top 10 Hand Signs of the Illuminati. Links to the Illuminati: In Illuminati conspiracy theories the presence of a pyramid usually represents the top-down command structure of the Illuminati rulers of the universe. The theory has become more mainstream following the rise of the Occupy Wall Street movement who refer to the rulers as the One Percent.
Top Ten Illuminati Symbols – The Illuminati loves taunting the Profane by putting their symbols in plain sight for all to see. Only the Illuminati insiders are privy to the symbols’ true meaning. Links to the Illuminati: In Illuminati conspiracy theories the presence of a pyramid usually represents the top-down command structure of the Illuminati rulers of the universe. The theory has become more mainstream following the rise of the Occupy Wall Street movement who refer to the rulers as the One Percent.
[These are the symbols used by the Reptilian proxy group, the Reptoids (Illuminati, & Freemasons), collectively are known as Satanists or Luciferians. The signs of Evil. The most popular symbol is the All seeing eye, and most popular hand signs are the Horn and the 666. 
The Illuminati have left behind and still leave clues of their influence through a vast number of signs and symbols with special meanings to those in power. Illuminati Symbols Hidden in Plain Sight. For centuries, only the Illuminati insiders of the highest order, were privy to their true meanings. Secret Illuminati symbols appear in a startling number of places, hidden in plain sight, in popular culture, media, and even architectural designs of important buildings and monuments. The All Seeing Eye is commonly associated with the Illuminati and many alleged Illuminati members are documented making hand symbols and looking through their fingers to represent the eye of providence. The  All Seeing Eye  or Eye of Providence has shown up in various cultures through out history.
The Illuminati was founded in 1776, and is believed to have been created in order to gather together a secret society of influential and powerful members that would then infiltrate every facet of society. The All Seeing Eye is commonly associated with the Illuminati and many alleged Illuminati members are documented making hand symbols and looking through their fingers to represent the eye of providence. The  All Seeing Eye  or Eye of Providence has shown up in various cultures through out history.
The pyramid represents the top-down command structure of the Illuminati with the Illuminati plutocrats at the top and the peons at the bottom. Links to the Illuminati: In Illuminati conspiracy theories the presence of a pyramid usually represents the top-down command structure of the Illuminati rulers of the universe. The theory has become more mainstream following the rise of the Occupy Wall Street movement who refer to the rulers as the One Percent.
Links to the Illuminati: To conspiracy theorists, the all-seeing eye represents the Eye of Lucifer. The Eye can see all and oversees its minions which are represented by the individual bricks of the pyramid. The 13 steps of the pyramid represent the 13 Illuminati Bloodlines which collectively rule over the planet. Links to the Illuminati: In Illuminati conspiracy theories the presence of a pyramid usually represents the top-down command structure of the Illuminati rulers of the universe. The theory has become more mainstream following the rise of the Occupy Wall Street movement who refer to the rulers as the One Percent.