Elephant ivory is the most important source, but ivory from mammoth, walrus, hippopotamus, sperm whale, killer whale, narwhal and wart hog are used as well. Elk also have two ivory teeth, which are believed to be the remnants of tusks from their ancestors. The national and international trade in ivory of threatened species such as African and Asian elephants is illegal. The word ivory ultimately derives from the ancient Egyptian ab, âb (abu), âbu elephant Through the-latin ebor. or ebur
Ivory poaching for tusks is the main reason that elephants have been so heavily hunted. Elephant ivory has been used in huge amounts to make billiards balls, piano keys, identification chops and many other items for human enjoyment. There is also a display element to tusks and they can attract the interest of females. Evidence suggests that elephants normally prefer one tusk over the other, similar to being left or right handed in humans. The preferred tusk is known as the master tusk.
Ivory is a hard, white material from the tusks and teeth of animals, that is used in art or manufacturing. It consists of dentine, a tissue that is similar to bone. It has been valued since ancient times for making a range of items, from ivory carvings to false teeth, fans, and dominoes. The national and international trade in ivory of threatened species such as African and Asian elephants is illegal. The word ivory ultimately derives from the ancient Egyptian ab, âb (abu), âbu elephant Through the-latin ebor. or ebur
Uses [edit]. Tusks have a variety of uses depending on the animal. Social displays of dominance, particularly among males, are common, as is their use in defence against attackers. Elephants use their tusks as digging and boring tools. Walruses use their tusks to grip on ice and to haul out on ice.
Tusks are generally curved, though the narwhal 's sole tusk is straight and has a helical structure. In the elephant, the tusks were originally second incisors. Continuous growth is enabled by formative tissues in the apical openings of the roots of the teeth. Social displays of dominance, particularly among males, are common, as is their use in defence against attackers. Elephants use their tusks as digging and boring tools. Walruses use their tusks to grip on ice and to haul out on ice.
Usually in mammals tusks are enlarged canine teeth, but in elephants they are actually elongated incisors and are essentially no different from other teeth. One third of the tusk is actually hidden from view, embedded deep in the elephant’s head. There is also a display element to tusks and they can attract the interest of females. Evidence suggests that elephants normally prefer one tusk over the other, similar to being left or right handed in humans. The preferred tusk is known as the master tusk.
Walrus tusks are found on both the male and the female where they grow continually throughout their life. The tusks are used as a symbol of age, sex, and social status. The babies have no tusks when they are born. The tusks of the males are much longer and wider in proportion to their body than those of the female. The males use their tusks as a symbol of their masculinity turning their heads and thrusting their tusks up in a show to prove their dominance. Tusks are also used as weapons in fighting, to help in walking on land (the toothwalkers) and they have a minor role in feeding. Walrus head showing red eye and no external ear (left). Walrus showing typical rumpled brown body (right).
Elephants use their tusks for a variety of tasks. Principally, they are formidable weapons against potential predators like the tiger (although tigers will only ever attack young or juvenile elephants) or in battle against other elephants. There is also a display element to tusks and they can attract the interest of females. Evidence suggests that elephants normally prefer one tusk over the other, similar to being left or right handed in humans. The preferred tusk is known as the master tusk.
Ivory Tusks – A Blessing and Curse. An elephant’s tusks are both a blessing and curse. Blessing because they give a sense of true majesty that rise them above other animals as well and being of use for various tasks. There is also a display element to tusks and they can attract the interest of females. Evidence suggests that elephants normally prefer one tusk over the other, similar to being left or right handed in humans. The preferred tusk is known as the master tusk.