Returns the number of whole working days between start_date and end_date. Working days exclude weekends and any dates identified in holidays. Use NETWORKDAYS to calculate employee benefits that accrue based on the number of days worked during a specific term. Copy the example data in the following table, and paste it in cell A1 of a new Excel worksheet. For formulas to show results, select them, press F2, and then press Enter. If you need to, you can adjust the column widths to see all the data.
Example. Copy the example data in the following table, and paste it in cell A1 of a new Excel worksheet. For formulas to show results, select them, press F2, and then press Enter. If you need to, you can adjust the column widths to see all the data.
Step 1. Open a new Microsoft Excel 2010 spreadsheet. Click on cell A1 and enter the earliest date and time from where you want to count. Enter the date first, then press Space and enter the time using a 24-hour clock. Press Enter and the date will appear in the cell.
Repeat this process with the ending date and time in cell B1. Related Reading: How to Calculate Overtime & Double Time in Excel. Step 3. Click on the cell where you want your result to appear, then enter =NETWORKDAYS(A1,B1)-1-MOD(A1,1)+MOD(B1,1), without the quotes. Press Enter to complete the function. Click on cell A1 and enter the earliest date and time from where you want to count. Enter the date first, then press Space and enter the time using a 24-hour clock. Press Enter and the date will appear in the cell.
Microsoft Excel Calculate Number of Workdays. Excel: Calculate the number of workdays between two dates. The NETWORKDAYS function returns the number of whole working days between two dates. Working days exclude weekends, and if you supply a list of holidays, it will exclude them, too! In order to use NETWORKDAYS, you must have the Analysis Toolpak installed. 
Example. Copy the example data in the following table, and paste it in cell A1 of a new Excel worksheet. For formulas to show results, select them, press F2, and then press Enter. If you need to, you can adjust the column widths to see all the data.
Workday Function Examples. In the spreadsheets below, the Excel Workday function is used to find a date that is 25 work days after 01-Dec-2015. The first example (in cell A7) only excludes weekends from the calculation, while the second example (in cell A8) excludes weekends and a supplied list of holidays. 
You don't need to count out days on a calendar to find out how many days you have to complete a project. Excel's NETWORKDAYS function can calculate it for you &#8212 without requiring you to work weekends or holidays. To set up a worksheet that will calculate the number of working days excluding weekends and holidays from a project's start date to its due date, follow these steps: 1  Enter the headings for Project, Start Date, End Date, and Work Days as shown. 2  Select B2:C2. 3  Press Shift+ Ctrl + Down Arrow. 
Calculating Number of Working Days. You can use the NETWORKDAYS() function in Excel to calculate the number of working days (excluding weekends) between and including two dates. In Excel 2000/2002/2003, this function requires the Analysis ToolPak to be installed. A blog for publishing examples of Excel formulas. You can use the NETWORKDAYS() function in Excel to calculate the number of working days (excluding weekends) between and including two dates.