At the end of your training program, you usually have three to four months to take your state exam to become certified. Some places will allow you to work without your certification, but if you want more pay and if you want to climb the nursing assistant career ladder, certification is a must. While these courses may not help you with your CNA training, if you plan to become an RN, these courses will be invaluable. Also, be prepared to submit to a background check (criminal) and drug tests as you study for the nurse’s assistant training and work.
Nursing assistant training courses may take anywhere between three weeks to three months to complete, depending on the facility or school which offers the program. To enroll in nurse aide classes you must meet certain admission criteria pertaining to education, health, and background history. State approved CNA training programs teach nurse aide trainees how to become competent care givers. The theoretical section of a nursing assistant program is augmented by the clinical portion, by reinforcing and practicing the knowledge gained in the classroom.
Nursing assistant programs vary in length depending on the school or facility offering the training. CNA courses may take anywhere between three to twelve weeks. Once you complete the training you may schedule the nurse aide competency test right away. Candidates who pass the examination become state certified right away and receive the actual certificate in a couple of weeks, usually within one month. I want to take the CNA exam.
A Certified Nursing Assistant is a member of the health care team. Always working under the direction of a nurse (RN or LPN/LVN) the CNA provides hands on nursing care to patients, residents, clients and customers in a variety of health care settings. 
The amount of time it takes to complete training depends on the course chosen and whether the schedule is full-time or part-time. The shortest programs, ideal for those with some experience, are 4 to 6 weeks. Others last between 6 and 12 months. The longer the program, in general, the greater the exposure to such ‘soft’ skills as patient relations and professional communication. These skills are highly valued by employers. 
Certification as a Certified Nurse’s Aide/Assistant (CNA), however, is an option (and a desirable one) for better job opportunities. In addition, many employers require NAs to be certified. The certification process may be included in some basic NA training programs or offered as separate training. Nurses' aides (NAs) work under the supervision of nurses or physicians to address the most fundamental elements of a patient’s care. They feed, dress, bathe and groom patients, contributing enormously to their sense of normalcy and well-being.
Once you finish a training program, you’ll have to take a competency test with a multiple choice section and a practical section in which you must demonstrate three to five nurse’s aide skills on an actual patient or someone who is acting as one. While these courses may not help you with your CNA training, if you plan to become an RN, these courses will be invaluable. Also, be prepared to submit to a background check (criminal) and drug tests as you study for the nurse’s assistant training and work.
Prerequisites to Entering a Training Program. First, you need a high school diploma or a GED before you can register for a nursing assistant course. If you’re still in high school, try to take some extra science, chemistry, or biology classes. While these courses may not help you with your CNA training, if you plan to become an RN, these courses will be invaluable. Also, be prepared to submit to a background check (criminal) and drug tests as you study for the nurse’s assistant training and work.
You can also receive training through organizations like the Red Cross and through college or online training programs. No matter where you take your courses, most nurse assistant training programs last anywhere from two to six weeks, and some courses can run from six to nine months. While these courses may not help you with your CNA training, if you plan to become an RN, these courses will be invaluable. Also, be prepared to submit to a background check (criminal) and drug tests as you study for the nurse’s assistant training and work.
Pay is typically less in home health care and assisted living centers and greater in nursing homes and hospitals. The pay range is typically anywhere from $9.00 per hour to $13.00 per hour. Q: How long does the Nursing Assistant course take at MSTC? The Nursing Assistant course is a total of 120 hours. 