Definition 4: Dissemination is the targeted distribution of information and intervention materials to a specific public health or clinical practice audience. The intent is to spread knowledge and the associated evidence-based interventions. Usually, the 'communication process' is dissemination is one-way. It may form part of a two-way process but this is not implicit in the term. It may also refer to the transfer of research outputs to meet specified demands or requests for 'information'.
According to the CHSRF, a dissemination strategy is an evolving plan begun in advance of a research program that aims to 1  : extract clear, simple, and active main messages or key implications from research results. 2  identify credible 'carriers' of the message. 3  pinpoint key decision-maker audiences for the messages. Definitions. Dissemination is a term meaning communication, or a flow of information from a source. Dissemination is an active concept, where the information is tailored and targeted for an intended and identified audience. In contrast, communication which is passive, untailored and untargeted is defined as diffusion
The success of the dissemination strategy depends on a two-way information pathway between the target groups and the envisaged programme, in particular in relation to the decision-makers in Law and development. 5. In order to keep track of the implementation of this dissemination strategy, this plan also establishes key milestones. The overall timeline for implementation of mechanisms of dissemination and the crucial milestones for each mechanism are detailed in the table below.
Ideally, the dissemination plan will link with a broader dissemination strategy for the programme in which the project is part. It should be planned in consultation with the project partners and approved by the project management committee. 1 All dissemination should have a purpose, and support or inform project development in some way. 2  The purpose of the activity may be to: 3  Defining the purpose of dissemination is a first step to decide on the audience, message, method and timing of the dissemination.
D7.1: Dissemination Strategy RECODE project 11 members in regard to the issues of concern to the RECODE consortium.  To raise the awareness and understanding of the public with regard to open access to research data, and how it can be used to support policy. D7.1: Dissemination Strategy RECODE project 3 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY RECODE stands for REC ommendations for O pen Access to Research D ata in E urope. The RECODE consortium addresses the challenges facing the provision of open access to research data.
Creation and testing of the tool is described in Development of a Planning Tool to Guide Research Dissemination. (PDF version - 157.95 KB) (Microsoft Word version - 115 KB). Advances in Patient Safety: From Research to Implementation. Rockville, MD: Agency for Healthcare and Research Quality; 2005. Purpose. AHRQ is increasingly interested in research that has real world impact in the practice of health care. This tool will help you, the Patient Safety Researcher, develop a plan for disseminating your research findings and products to potential users in the health care system.
If your dissemination strategy is going to be effective, each member of the team needs to feel a sense of ownership – try to involve the team at. all stages of the strategy’s development and ensure that each member has responsibility for a particular aspect of the strategy’s. implementation. By the time you reach this section of the workbook, and if you have completed each of the exercises, your project’s dissemination strategy willjust about be written. It is important not to underestimate the involvement of the members of your project team in these activities.
INTRODUCTION. The objective of the Dissemination Plan is to identify and organise the activities to be performed in order to promote the commercial exploitation of the project’s results and the widest dissemination of knowledge from the project. websites. are primary tools that may or may not help you reach your dissemination goals with certain target audiences. A thoughtful dissemination plan allows you to move beyond the simple listing of events and products as your dissemination strategy.