See Charmian as a last name. From the Late Greek name Kharmion (a diminutive of kharma ‘delight’). The name was used by Shakespeare in Antony and Cleopatra for one of the attendants of the Egyptian queen; he took it from Sir Thomas North's translation of Plutarch's Parallel Lives.
Charmaine /char-mai-ne/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced shar-MAYNE. It is of English origin, and the meaning of Charmaine is charm. Probably a modern name based on the word charm with-aine as in Lorraine. Below is a charted analysis of the popularity of Charmaine and affiliated names. Charlotte (#10 a year ago) , Caroline (#58) , Carmen (#383) , Lorraine, Laraine, Germaine, Charline, Carol and Charlene are the prominent alternative forms of Charmaine appearing in the Top 1000.
Greek Meaning: The name Charmian is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Charmian is: Joy. Charmain was one of Cleopatra's attendants in Shakespeare's 'Antony and Cleopatra'. Shakespearean Meaning: The name Charmian is a Shakespearean baby name. In Shakespearean the meaning of the name Charmian is: Antony and Cleopatra'. Lady attending on Cleopatra.
The name found some popularity due to The Bachelor's hit song Charmaine in the 1960s. Also possibly a variant of the older form Charmian, the name of one of Cleopatra's attendants in Shakespeare's Anthony and Cleopatra, and influenced by names such as Germaine. May also derive from an old Roman family name, Carminea, or possibly related to Carmen and Caroline. Below is a charted analysis of the popularity of Charmaine and affiliated names. Charlotte (#10 a year ago) , Caroline (#58) , Carmen (#383) , Lorraine, Laraine, Germaine, Charline, Carol and Charlene are the prominent alternative forms of Charmaine appearing in the Top 1000.
You can get information about the owner of the 1356509699 NPI number — K CHARMIAN DRESEL-VELASQUEZ MD in the PDF and Text formats. Detailed Information. NPI Number 1356509699 has the “Individual” type of ownership and has been registered to the following primary business legal name (which is a provider name or healthcare organization name) — K CHARMIAN DRESEL-VELASQUEZ MD. Records indicate that the provider gender is “Female” .
Meanings and history of the name Charmaine: | Edit. Charmaine has multiple meanings and origins. The French version of Charmaine means Variant of Charles Manly. One of Cleopatra's attendants in Shakespeare's Antony and Cleopatra was named Charmian.. The English version of Charmaine means Song. Personal experiences with the name Charmaine: | Edit. 1. My name is Charmaine. I hated it when I was growing up, but now I love it. I'm almost 21 and I've never met anyone else with my name. 2. I've never really liked my name because people often mispronounce it which irritated me.
Carr is also a common surname in Ireland, where it often derives from the nickname, gearr, meaning short (of height). In some cases it is thought to come from the Welsh word Cawr, meaning giant. Kerr is a Scottish variant. 
Buddy (1982) is a novel written by Nigel Hinton. The main characters are Buddy Clark, his mother Carol Clark, his father Terry Clark and Julian and Charmian Rybeero. The story deals with issues such as racism, thieving and child neglect.