It only applies for a liquid ounce in U.S. measurements. A centilitre (cL or cl) a metric unit of volume that is equal to one hundredth of a litre and is equal to a little more than six tenths (0.6102) of acubic inch, or one third (0.338) of a fluid ounce. The SI derived unit for volume is the cubic meter. 1 cubic meter is equal to 33814.0225589 fl oz, or 100000 centilitre. Note that rounding errors may occur, so always check the results. Use this page to learn how to convert between fluid ounces and centiliters.
You won't believe these 10 facts about people. A centiliter is a unit of measurement used to describe volume or capacity. It is a metric system measurement, as opposed to the Imperial system commonly used in the United States and, to a lesser extent, in the United Kingdom. In comparison to Imperial measurements, the centiliter is approximately equivalent to 0.338 ounces or 0.6102 cubic inches. Since the centiliter is a relatively small unit of measurement, it is not often used to describe large volumes. It is more likely to be found, for example, in a cooking recipe than it would be in the description of a car's fuel tank capacity or the packaging on a beverage.
You can view more details on each measurement unit: fl oz or centilitre. The SI derived unit for volume is the cubic meter. 1 cubic meter is equal to 33814.0225589 fl oz, or 100000 centilitre. Note that rounding errors may occur, so always check the results. Use this page to learn how to convert between fluid ounces and centiliters.
›› Definition: Centilitre. A centilitre (cL or cl) a metric unit of volume that is equal to one hundredth of a litre and is equal to a little more than six tenths (0.6102) of acubic inch, or one third (0.338) of a fluid ounce. You can use this form to select from known units: Convert centilitres to. I'm feeling lucky, show me some random units. A centilitre (cL or cl) a metric unit of volume that is equal to one hundredth of a litre and is equal to a little more than six tenths (0.6102) of acubic inch, or one third (0.338) of a fluid ounce.
: a unit for measuring the volume of a liquid or gas that is equal to 1/100 liter or 10 cubic centimeters. Definition of CENTILITER for Kids. : a unit of liquid capacity equal to 1⁄100 liter.
1. centiliter-a metric unit of volume equal to one hundredth of a liter. centilitre, cl. metric capacity unit-a capacity unit defined in metric terms. cc, cubic centimeter, cubic centimetre, milliliter, millilitre, ml, mil-a metric unit of volume equal to one thousandth of a liter. 
›› Definition: Centilitre. A centilitre (cL or cl) a metric unit of volume that is equal to one hundredth of a litre and is equal to a little more than six tenths (0.6102) of acubic inch, or one third (0.338) of a fluid ounce. The SI derived unit for volume is the cubic meter. 1 cubic meter is equal to 33814.0225589 fl oz, or 100000 centilitre. Note that rounding errors may occur, so always check the results. Use this page to learn how to convert between fluid ounces and centiliters.
Centi means hundredth and milli means thousandth, and one hundredth is larger than one thousandth. Except that the question, as stated, has no meaning. A centilitre is a measu … re of volume, with dimensions [L3]. A millimetre is a measure of distance, with dimensions [L]. The two measure different things and basic dimensional analysis teaches that you cannot compare measures with different dimensions such as these without additional information. Yes. A millimeter is 1/1000 (one thousandth) of a meter, and a centileter is 1/100 (one hundredth) of a meter, making the centiliter larger than the millimeter.
1. This is a conversion chart for centiliter (Metric). To switch the unit simply find the one you want on the page and click it. You can also go to the universal conversion page. 2. Enter the value you want to convert (centiliter). Then click the Convert Me button. Your value gets instantly converted to all other units on the page. 3. Now find the unit you want and get the conversion result next to it. It's your answer.