Almonds. Almonds are one the best vitamin E foods. Just an ounce of almonds offers a whopping 7.4 milligrams of vitamin E. You can also get your vitamin E needs in the form of almond milk and almond oils. We would recommend eating raw almonds, if possible
1 Green leafy vegetables and other green, orange, and yellow vegetables, such as broccoli, carrots, and squash. 2  Fruits, including cantaloupe, apricots, and mangos. 3  Dairy products, which are among the major sources of vitamin A for Americans. 4  Fortified breakfast cereals. 1 Beef liver and other organ meats (but these foods are also high in cholesterol, so limit the amount you eat). 2  Some types of fish, such as salmon. 3  Green leafy vegetables and other green, orange, and yellow vegetables, such as broccoli, carrots, and squash.
Where can you get the vitamins you need in the food you eat? Whole food vitamins-which have all the co-factors present-comes from food, Although you can take vitamin supplements, it is also possible-and is natural-to get vitamins from the food you eat. Of course, its not always possible to get good food. The amount of iron that Popeye would get in one can of spinach, would now take him 50 cans. Soil depletion, pesticides, have taken their toll. So, vitamin supplementation is always wise. However, more and more, there are whole food stores where you can get organically grown food. We are listing the vitamins minerals and what foods you can eat to get them naturally
These are foods that contain vitamin A or its precursor called beta-carotene. Animal foods contain vitamin A whereas no plant food provides vitamin A but instead they have beta-carotene which is converted to vitamin A in the liver. The foods listed in this article are good sources of vitamin A or beta-carotene. 
1 Some types of fish, such as salmon. 2  Green leafy vegetables and other green, orange, and yellow vegetables, such as broccoli, carrots, and squash. 3  Fruits, including cantaloupe, apricots, and mangos. 4  Dairy products, which are among the major sources of vitamin A for Americans. 5  Fortified breakfast cereals. 1 Beef liver and other organ meats (but these foods are also high in cholesterol, so limit the amount you eat). 2  Some types of fish, such as salmon. 3  Green leafy vegetables and other green, orange, and yellow vegetables, such as broccoli, carrots, and squash.
The list below will help you out. It covers all the vitamins and minerals you should get, preferably from food. Calcium. Foods that have it: Milk, fortified nondairy alternatives like soy milk, yogurt, hard cheeses, fortified cereals, kale. How much you need: 1  Adults ages 19-50: 1,000 milligrams per day. 2  Women age 51 and older: 1,200 milligrams per day. What it does: Helps your body process iron. Don't get more than this much: 10,000 micrograms per day for adults. Fiber. Foods that have it: Plant foods, including oatmeal, lentils, peas, beans, fruits, and vegetables. 1  1. 2  2. 3  3.
Two forms of vitamin A are available in the human diet: preformed vitamin A (retinol and its esterified form, retinyl ester) and provitamin A carotenoids [ 1-5 ]. Preformed vitamin A is found in foods from animal sources, including dairy products, fish, and meat (especially liver). By far the most important provitamin A carotenoid is beta-carotene; other provitamin A carotenoids are alpha-carotene and beta-cryptoxanthin. 