Cancel. Navy is a great color for both formal and informal weddings alike. Find out what color shoes go best with a Navy bridesmaid dress with help from a fashion professional in this free video clip. 
Much like red itself, pinks with red undertones provide natural contrast for the darkness of navy, and they also add a bit of whimsy and femininity to what can otherwise be a rather stern color. My personal preference is to wear shoes in deep, hot or true pink with navy. Darken the color wheel until you had a shade of navy blue on one side, and you'd see those bright yellows and oranges turn to shades like spice, pumpkin, and mustard. Any and all of those yellow-and orange-based shades work wonderfully
Best Answer: Red, black, gray, nude, orange, and lime are all great colours that go with navy really nicely. Technically, on the colour wheel, orange is the complimentary colour for blue. I have this medium length navy blue dress that I will be wearing to a semi-formal dance. I have no clue what color heels I should get. Im also having trouble figuring out what pieces/color of jewelry I should purchase for the dress.
For formal wear, navy formal dresses go best with neutral shoes. Try champagne colored stilettos, nude pumps, or even mauve colored footwear. To be more on trend for the season, gold accessories showcase a more updated look. But a classic combination of silver and blue also works. Switching the classic shade of black to the more understated color, navy, is nothing new for fashionable women. The rich blue shade is just as elegant, goes with anything, can easily be dressed up or dressed down and offers immense style versatility.
A solid navy suit is extremely versatile. You can wear almost any color or pattern of shirt you would like. Solid white and light blue-in that order-are just the most formal and conservative options. The same goes for ties & handkerchiefs-they just have to match with the suit and shirt. So the best way to answer this question is not what colors you should wear, but what colors you SHOULD NOT wear with a Navy suit. Don't wear these color shirts: 1) Black. 2) Dark / Navy Blue. Everything else is fair game and dependent on the situation.
When black feels boring and white seems too bright, a navy dress is just right. Navy’s appeal is that it goes with nearly everything but is less harsh -- and also less predictable -- than the little black dress. Pick shoes to highlight your dress or add some unexpected oomph -- a myriad of color options await you.
Pairing a navy dress with nude, beige or metallic footwear is always in good taste. Pick a neutral hue to match your skin tone -- or rock silver, pewter or gold strappy sandals, and complete the look with jewelry in the same metallic finish. This cohesive approach keeps the focus on your dress, not your feet. Navy’s appeal is that it goes with nearly everything but is less harsh -- and also less predictable -- than the little black dress. Pick shoes to highlight your dress or add some unexpected oomph -- a myriad of color options await you.
A navy blue suit is your canvas and along with a charcoal suit, your most versatile suit. So the best way to answer this question is not what colors you should wear, but what colors you SHOULD NOT wear with a Navy suit. Don't wear these color shirts: 1) Black. 2) Dark / Navy Blue. Everything else is fair game and dependent on the situation.
Watch More: http://www.youtube.com/ehowweddings. Navy is a great color for both formal and informal weddings alike. Find out what color shoes go best with a Navy bridesmaid dress with help from a fashion professional in this free video clip. Expert: Jennifer Martinson.