4. Snakes. A snake is someone who you think is sincere and really nice, but then turns out to be a backstabber. Someone who acts like your best friend, but who actually is the opposite. We all know somebody who is a doubletalker, a gossip and a generally untrustworthy person.
View full size image. There are more than 3,000 species of snakes in the world and there is at least one type of snake on every continent except Antarctica. While the snake has a bad rap as a pest, snakes can often be quite helpful and even a fun pet. It looks much like an earthworm. The largest snake, the reticulated python, can grow to a whopping 30 feet (9 meters). The largest snake fossil ever discovered is called the Titanoboa. This creature lived 60 million years ago and would have been 50 feet (15 meters) long.
Snakes are elongated, legless, carnivorous reptiles of the suborder Serpentes that can be distinguished from legless lizards by their lack of eyelids and external ears. Like all squamates, snakes are ectothermic, amniote vertebrates covered in overlapping scales. While snakes are limbless reptiles which evolved from (and are grouped within) lizards, there are may other species of lizards which have lost their limbs independently and superficially look similar to snakes. These include the slow worm and glass snake.
The skin of a snake is covered in scales. Contrary to the popular notion of snakes being slimy because of possible confusion of snakes with worms, snakeskin has a smooth, dry texture. Most snakes use specialized belly scales to travel, gripping surfaces. While snakes are limbless reptiles which evolved from (and are grouped within) lizards, there are may other species of lizards which have lost their limbs independently and superficially look similar to snakes. These include the slow worm and glass snake.
Any of numerous meat-eating reptiles having a long narrow body with no legs, often just one lung, and a forked tongue. The jaws of a snake come apart and the body can expand to swallow prey that is much thicker than the snake itself. Some snakes have venom glands and sharp fangs that can give a poisonous bite. Also called: snake in the grass a deceitful or treacherous person. 3. anything resembling a snake in appearance or action. 4. (Economics) (in the European Union) a former system of managing a group of currencies by allowing the exchange rate of each of them only to fluctuate within narrow limits. 5.
Solid Snake (birthname David) is a fictional character and the protagonist of Konami 's Metal Gear series created by Hideo Kojima. The Metal Gear Solid games has the character voiced by Akio Ōtsuka in the Japanese version and by actor and screenwriter David Hayter in the English version. Solid Snake is a former Green Beret and a highly skilled special operations soldier engaged in solo stealth and espionage missions. Snake was often tasked with destroying models of the bipedal nuclear weapon-armed mecha known as Metal Gear.
Size. With so many different species, there are snakes of many different sizes. The world's smallest snake, according to National Geographic, is the thread snake, which grows to only about 3.9 inches (10 centimeters) long. It looks much like an earthworm. The largest snake, the reticulated python, can grow to a whopping 30 feet (9 meters). The largest snake fossil ever discovered is called the Titanoboa. This creature lived 60 million years ago and would have been 50 feet (15 meters) long.
All snakes are strictly carnivorous, eating small animals including lizards, frogs, other snakes, small mammals, birds, eggs, fish, snails or insects. Because snakes cannot bite or tear their food to pieces, they must swallow prey whole. The body size of a snake has a major influence on its eating habits. While snakes are limbless reptiles which evolved from (and are grouped within) lizards, there are may other species of lizards which have lost their limbs independently and superficially look similar to snakes. These include the slow worm and glass snake.