If you have diabetes and are pregnant your A1C levels should be as close to normal as possible. Pregnant women who do not have diabetes typically have A1C levels of less than 5%, and this should be the target range for pregnant women with diabetes. The A1C test measures the percentage of glycated hemoglobin in your blood. Women with diabetes should strive for near normal A1Cs prior to, as well as during, pregnancy. In general the target A1C should be less than 7% before pregnancy and less than 6% while pregnant.
The normal range for hemoglobin is: 1  For men, 13.5 to 17.5 grams per deciliter. 2  For women, 12.0 to 15.5 grams per deciliter. 
Hemoglobin Levels: The blood test will identify the level of hemoglobin, which is the oxygen-carrying power of your red blood cells. The expected level is between 12 to 14 grams. A treatment for anemia will be prescribed, if your level falls below 10 grams. A blood test is a routine test used by your healthcare provider as part of your prenatal care. Although blood tests are used in screening for pregnancy, the following describes how blood tests are used as part of your prenatal care.
First Trimester: Hemoglobin. Hemoglobin is the protein in red blood cells (RBCs) that gives blood its red color. It binds to oxygen in your lungs, transports it throughout the body, and releases it to the cells and tissues. During pregnancy, a woman's hemoglobin must transport enough oxygen to meet both her and her fetus' needs. If a woman has insufficient hemoglobin, she is said to be anemic. Many pregnant women will experience some degree of anemia.
An abnormal amount of normal hemoglobin or an abnormal type of hemoglobin in the blood may mean that a disease is present. Abnormal hemoglobin types may be present without any other symptoms, may cause mild diseases that do not have symptoms, or cause diseases that can be life-threatening. A hemoglobin electrophoresis test is a blood test done to check the different types of hemoglobin in the blood. Hemoglobin is the substance in red blood cells that carries oxygen. The most common types of normal hemoglobin are:
Normal hemoglobin levels are different in women and in men. In non-pregnant women, normal hemoglobin ranges from 120 g/L to 160 g/L. In men, normal hemoglobin levels range from 140 g/L to 180 g/L. Canadian Blood Services tests each donor’s hemoglobin at the clinic and requires a minimum of 125 g/L for donatio
An A1C (Hemoglobin A1C) is a blood test that can predict average blood glucose levels for about 8-12 weeks. Women with diabetes should strive for near normal A1Cs prior to, as well as during, pregnancy. In general the target A1C should be less than 7% before pregnancy and less than 6% while pregnant.
First, it’s important to understand that it’s normal for hemoglobin levels to fall during pregnancy. As the chart below illustrates, normal levels of hemoglobin in non-pregnant women range from 12-16 g/dL. In a pregnant women @28 weeks, that range falls from 10-14 g/dL. This is a normal physiological change during pregnancy, and doesn’t indicate a problem. Hemoglobin levels will return to the non-pregnant range in the weeks after birth. Furthermore, the best birth outcomes are associated with hemoglobin levels at the low-end of the 10-14 g/dL range.
For people without diabetes, the normal range for the hemoglobin A1c test is between 4% and 5.6%. Hemoglobin A1c levels between 5.7% and 6.4% indicate increased risk of diabetes, and levels of 6.5% or higher indicate diabetes.