A painful burning feeling when you urinate is often a sign of a urinary tract infection (sometimes also called a bladder infection). However, painful urination can occur even if you don't have an infection. Certain drugs, like some used in cancer chemotherapy, may inflame the bladder. 
Urinary Tract Infections (UTIs). Urinary tract infections (UTIs) are a common type of infection caused by bacteria (most often E. coli) that travel up the urethra to the bladder. A bladder infection is called cystitis. If bacterial infection spreads to the kidneys and ureters, the condition is called pyelonephritis. A urinary tract infection (UTI) is a condition in which one or more parts of the urinary system (the kidneys, ureters, bladder, and urethra) become infected. UTIs are the most common of all bacterial infections and can occur at any time in the life of an individual.
1 Burning with urination (dysuria). 2  This is the most common symptom of a urinary tract infection. 3  Frequent urge to urinate without being able to pass much urine (frequency). 4  Pain in the flank, which is felt just below the rib cage and above the waist on one or both sides of the back. Some foods (such as asparagus), vitamins, and antibiotics (such as penicillin) can cause urine to have a different odor. A sweet, fruity odor may be caused by uncontrolled diabetes. A urinary tract infection (UTI) can cause a bad odor. Common symptoms of a urinary problem include: 1  Burning with urination (dysuria). 2  This is the most common symptom of a urinary tract infection. 3  Frequent urge to urinate without being able to pass much urine (frequency)
Pain in the urinary tract can arise for various reasons. The location of urinary tract pain is important to distinguish urethral pain, urinary burning, or urination pain (pain or burning during urination) from bladder pain or kidney pain. Causes of Similar Symptoms to Urinary pain. Research the causes of these symptoms that are similar to, or related to, the symptom Urinary pain: 1  Urination pain (123 causes). 2  Bladder pain (16 causes). 3  Kidney pain (14 causes). 4  Urethral pain (4 causes). 5  Urinary symptoms (1228 causes).
A urinary tract infection (UTI) is an infection of any part of the urinary system. 2 Most infections involve the lower urinary tract. The urinary tract is comprised of the bladder, kidneys, ureters and urethra. Urinary tract infections are the second most common type of infection in the body and account for around 8.1 million visits to health care providers each year. 1 The majority of urinary tract infections are caused by the E. Coli bacterium. 2  Common symptoms include a strong, frequent urge to urinate and a painful and burning sensation when urinating. 3  Urinary tract infection is usually diagnosed based on symptoms and testing of a urine sample.
Your urinary tract is the system that makes urine and carries it out of your body. It includes your bladder and kidneys and the tubes that connect them. When germs get into this system, they can cause an infection. Most urinary tract infections are bladder infections. A bladder infection usually is not serious if it is treated right away. If you do not take care of a bladder infection, it can spread to your kidneys. A kidney infection is serious and can cause permanent damage
Symptoms from a lower urinary tract include painful urination and either frequent urination or urge to urinate (or both); while the symptoms of pyelonephritis include fever and flank pain in addition to the symptoms of a lower UTI. Lower urinary tract infection is also referred to as a bladder infection. The most common symptoms are burning with urination and having to urinate frequently (or an urge to urinate) in the absence of vaginal discharge and significant pain.
A urinary tract infection (UTI) can occur in any part of the urinary tract. Bacteria cause the vast majority of UTIs. Fungi or viruses can also cause UTIs. UTIs are the second most common type of infection in humans. Pressure on the urinary tract during sex can move bacteria from the colon into the bladder. Most women have bacteria in their urine after intercourse. However, the body usually can get rid of these pathogens within 24 hours. Bowel bacteria may have properties that allow them to stick to the bladder.