The Yellowstone hotspot, also referred to as the Snake River Plain-Yellowstone hotspot, is a volcanic hotspot responsible for large scale volcanism in Oregon, Nevada, Idaho, and Wyoming, United States. The Island Park Caldera is sometimes referred to as the First Phase Yellowstone Caldera or the Huckleberry Ridge Caldera. The youngest of the hotspot calderas, the Yellowstone Caldera, formed 640,000 years ago and is about 34 miles (55 km) by 45 miles (72 km) wide.
The Yellowstone caldera is located over a ‘hotspot’, where volcanism – and in the case of Yellowstone, hydrothermal activity – is occurring far away from the plate boundaries where such things are normally found. 
Contrary to some media reports, Yellowstone is not 'overdue' for a supereruption. The Yellowstone Caldera is the volcanic caldera and supervolcano located in Yellowstone National Park in the United States, sometimes referred to as the Yellowstone Supervolcano. The caldera and most of the park are located in the northwest corner of Wyoming. The major features of the caldera measure about 34 by 45 miles (55 by 72 km). The next biggest supereruption formed the Yellowstone Caldera (640,000 years ago) and produced the Lava Creek Tuff. The Henry's Fork Caldera (1.2 million years ago) produced the smaller Mesa Falls Tuff but is the only caldera from the Snake River Plain-Yellowstone (SRP-Y) hotspot that is plainly visible today.
The Yellowstone volcano is well withing the boundaries of the North American plate. It formed over a hot spot rather than a plate boundary. 
The volcanic history of the Yellowstone-Snake River Plain volcanic field is based on the systematic time-progressive volcanic origin of this region that is characterized by several large calderas in eastern Snake River Plain with dimensions similar to those of Yellowstone's three giant Pleistocene calderas. Before I conclude this discussion, it is important to comment on the origin of the of the Oligocene, Columbia Plateau basalt field of western Oregon and Washington that has been attributed to the same mantle plume source as the Yellowstone hotspot.
· just now. Report Abuse. Most but not all volcanoes are near plate boundaries. Yellowstone, like Hawaii, is believed to lie on top of an area called a hotspot where light, hot, molten mantle rock rises towards the surface. Skookum · 5 years ago. Thumbs up. 
A hot spot under the American plate is why Yellowstone National Park has geysers and other thermal features. If the hot spot is under the seafloor (as it is in Hawaii) it produces undersea volcanoes. Hawaii is geologically a unique place on Earth because it is caused by a 'hot spot.' Most islands are found at tectonic plate boundaries either from spreading centers (like Iceland) or from subduction zones (like the Aleutian Islands).
Geoid Response. The long-wavelength topographic response of the Yellowstone hotspot can be compared with oceanic hotspots such as the Cape Verde, Galapagos, Azores and Hawaiian islands. These classic oceanic hotspot signatures range from 1 to 2 km above the abyssal plain and their widths range from 700 km to 1,500 km. Before I conclude this discussion, it is important to comment on the origin of the of the Oligocene, Columbia Plateau basalt field of western Oregon and Washington that has been attributed to the same mantle plume source as the Yellowstone hotspot.
It created the eastern Snake River Plain through a succession of caldera forming eruptions. The resulting calderas include the Island Park Caldera, the Henry's Fork Caldera, and the Bruneau-Jarbidge caldera. The hotspot currently lies under the Yellowstone Caldera. The hotspot's most recent supereruption, known as the Lava Creek eruption, took place 640,000 years ago and created the Lava Creek Tuff and the Yellowstone Caldera. The Island Park Caldera is sometimes referred to as the First Phase Yellowstone Caldera or the Huckleberry Ridge Caldera. The youngest of the hotspot calderas, the Yellowstone Caldera, formed 640,000 years ago and is about 34 miles (55 km) by 45 miles (72 km) wide.