The upper atmosphere of Uranus is the coldest in the Solar System, with a minimum temperat … ure of 49 °K. It has a complex cloud structure with water clouds presumably being the deepest and methane clouds at the top. Uranus is the coldest planet of our solar system, with temperatures  as low as minus 224 degrees Celcius. Daytime does not make that  much difference, since Uranus is so f … ar from the sun that it is  hardly more than a big star there. So from a practical point of  view it is basically always night
The seventh planet from the sun, Uranus has the coldest atmosphere of any of the planets in the solar system, even though it is not the most distant. Despite the fact that its equator faces away from the sun, the temperature distribution on Uranus is much like other planets, with a warmer equator and cooler poles. Like Neptune, Uranus, discovered in 1781, is known as an ice giant, in a slightly different category from Saturn and Jupiter. Both planets boast frigid atmospheres made up of ice rather than gas. Uranus is composed predominantly of hydrogen, helium and methane.
Because Uranus is so far from the Sun, it's very cold there (-371 Fahrenheit or -224 Celsius). The planet has a rocky center, but the outer layer is probably mostly made of ice, frozen ammonia, and frozen methane. The atmosphere is mainly hydrogen and helium, like Jupiter and Saturn, and like them very windy. 
How’s the temperature on Uranus? Cold. In fact, the temperature of Uranus makes it the coldest planet in the Solar System. The average temperature of the cloud tops on Uranus is 49 K (?224 °C). Unlike the rest of the planets in the Solar System, Uranus is tilted right over onto its side. Scientists think that Uranus has a massive collision early on in its history, which knocked it over.
How cold is Uranus during the day? Uranus is the coldest planet of our solar system, with temperatures  as low as minus 224 degrees Celcius. Daytime does not make that  much difference, since Uranus is so f … ar from the sun that it is  hardly more than a big star there. So from a practical point of  view it is basically always night.
Uranus is the coldest planet of our solar system, with temperatures  as low as minus 224 degrees Celcius. Daytime does not make that  much difference, since Uranus is so f … ar from the sun that it is  hardly more than a big star there. So from a practical point of  view it is basically always night. The upper atmosphere of Uranus is the coldest in the Solar System, with a minimum temperat … ure of 49 °K. It has a complex cloud structure with water clouds presumably being the deepest and methane clouds at the top.
Report Abuse. Uranus is very cold with an estimated temperature of 73º Kelvin (-200 º Centigrade). Pluto is very very cold, there has been an estimate of 35º Kelvin to 45º Kelvin (-228º Centigrade to -238º Centigrade). It is cold enough to have frozen the gases in any atmosphere it had. Hi Its vey cold!!! Its 19 times further from the sun than the earth is, Surface temperature on Uranus' cloud cover is approximately 55 K (−218 °C or −360 °F). http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Uranus A Comparison of Uranus and the Earth. http://www.windows.ucar.edu/tour/link=/u... http://www.enchantedlearning.com/subject...