Earth Day Flag created by John McConnell. Earth Day is an annual event, celebrated on April 22, on which day events worldwide are held to demonstrate support for environmental protection. It now is observed in 192 countries, and coordinated by the nonprofit Earth Day Network, chaired by the first Earth Day 1970 organizer Denis Hayes, according to whom Earth Day is now the largest secular holiday in the world, celebrated by more than a billion people every year..
Currently it is celebrated in more than 192 countries each year. It was originally celebrated at Spring Equinox around 21 March every day but now the United Nations has designated 22 April as the International Mother Earth Day. Earth Day Network coordinates this annual day across the globe. 1 Today more than 1 billion people participate in earth day activities each year to make it one of the most largest movement on earth. 2  Earth Day 2000 combined ambitious spirit of the first Earth Day with the international grassroots activism of Earth Day 1990.
Apr, 2013 by Kasia in Calendar, Countries, Culture, Holidays, Nature. Earth day (Dzień Ziemi) is the largest, most widely celebrated international environmental event (wydarzenie środowiskowe). Earth Day helps celebrate Earth’s unique place in the universe. Most people celebrate Earth Day on April 22nd each year. In some countries, it is celebrated a month earlier on the vernal equinox (punkt rownonocy równonocy). Wiosennej image-By-snugg on.flickr. Com countries all over the world Celebrate Earth day in different. Ways china created a stamp to Commemorate Earth day and the. planet
People all over the world celebrate our efforts to protect plants and animals and to clean up the world we live in. Most people celebrate Earth Day on April 22nd each year. In some countries, it is celebrated a month earlier on the vernal equinox (punkt rownonocy równonocy). wiosennej Most people celebrate Earth Day on April 22nd each year. In some countries, it is celebrated a month earlier on the vernal equinox (punkt rownonocy równonocy). Wiosennej image-By-snugg on.flickr. Com countries all over the world Celebrate Earth day in different. Ways china created a stamp to Commemorate Earth day and the. planet
In 1990, the first official International Earth Day was celebrated. About 200 million people from 141 nations took part in a celebration of environmental conservation. In many countries, the global event reminded presidents and other national leaders how important protecting Earth is to people. Most people celebrate Earth Day on April 22nd each year. In some countries, it is celebrated a month earlier on the vernal equinox (punkt rownonocy równonocy). Wiosennej image-By-snugg on.flickr. Com countries all over the world Celebrate Earth day in different. Ways china created a stamp to Commemorate Earth day and the. planet
This event has passed. World Environment Day is an annual event that is aimed at being the biggest and most widely celebrated global day for positive environmental action. World Environment Day activities take place all year round and climax on 5 June every year, involving everyone from everywhere. 
World Environment Day (WED) is an annual event that aims to be the biggest and most widely celebrated global day for positive environmental action. WED activities take place all year round but climax on 5 June every year. 
get causes updates. June 5 is World Environment Day, an annual event created in 1972 by the United Nations Environment Program, which aims to be the biggest and most widely celebrated global day for positive environmental action. Every year has a different theme, and this year s is Think.Eat.Save. 
Earth Day 2007 was one of the largest Earth Days to date, with many people participating in the activities in thousands of places including Kiev, Ukraine; Caracas, Venezuela; Tuvalu; Manila, Philippines; Togo; Madrid, Spain; London; and New York. It now is observed in 192 countries, and coordinated by the nonprofit Earth Day Network, chaired by the first Earth Day 1970 organizer Denis Hayes, according to whom Earth Day is now the largest secular holiday in the world, celebrated by more than a billion people every year..