The Yeti is an Asian Bigfoot found in the Himalayas. Inhabiting Nepal, Tibet, Pakistan, and India, the Yeti is probably the closest living relative to Gigantopithecus, a prehistoric ape that lived in Asia three hundred thousand years ago. 
The name yeti is applied to a large humanoid cryptid, roughly the same as Bigfoot and Sasquatch. The name is used for creatures who live in the high, snowy mountains in the Himalayas. Those who believe that the yeti exists suspect it is a kind of large ape that walks upright, having thick brown or black fur. Yeti is the Sherpa-derived term for what is popularly called the Abominable Snowman native to the Himalayas Mountains in Asia. The late explorer Sir Edmund Hillary vacillated on and off as to whether the creature existed as he never saw one on Everest or neighboring mountains or plateaus
The names Yeti and Meh-Teh are commonly used by the people indigenous to the region, and are part of their history and mythology. Up to the 1960s, belief in the yeti was relatively common in Bhutan and in 1966 a Bhutanese stamp was made to honor the creature. However, in the twenty-first century belief in the being has declined. In 1970, British mountaineer Don Whillans claimed to have witnessed a creature when scaling Annapurna.
The word Yeti is derived from Tibetan: གཡའ་དྲེད་ , Wylie: g.ya' dred, ZYPY: Yache, yachê a compound of the Words: tibetan་ , གཡའ: wylie.g' , YA: zypy ya, rocky rocky place (And: tibetan་ , དྲེད: wylie, DRED: zypy) che. chê bear Up to the 1960s, belief in the yeti was relatively common in Bhutan and in 1966 a Bhutanese stamp was made to honor the creature. However, in the twenty-first century belief in the being has declined. In 1970, British mountaineer Don Whillans claimed to have witnessed a creature when scaling Annapurna.
The Yeti is rumored to live in Nepal and Tibet's Himalayan mountains. Some Yeti researchers have concluded that the cryptid is a descendant of Neanderthals. Yeti's may be mistaken for a brown bear that can walk upright. Edmund Hillary searched for evidence of the yeti on Mount Everest. The Yeti is said to inhabit the mountainous Himalayas of Nepal and Tibet, where it has long been part of local legend for the area's natives. In the late 19th century, stories of the Yeti first made their way to the Western world.
Lost Tapes Yeti The people of Nepal believe in the existence of the yeti: a strange, ape-like or bear-like creature that patrols the peaks of the Himalayas. 03:07. Yeti. The people of Nepal believe in the existence of the yeti: a strange, ape-like or bear-like creature that patrols the peaks of the Himalayas. 03:07.
For other uses of Yeti, see Yeti (disambiguation) . The Yeti (/ˈjɛti/) or Abominable Snowman (Nepali: हिममानव himamānav, lit. mountain man) is an ape-like cryptid taller than an average human that is said to inhabit the Himalayan region of Nepal and Tibet. Up to the 1960s, belief in the yeti was relatively common in Bhutan and in 1966 a Bhutanese stamp was made to honor the creature. However, in the twenty-first century belief in the being has declined. In 1970, British mountaineer Don Whillans claimed to have witnessed a creature when scaling Annapurna.
Being an ape-like cryptid, the Yeti is also called the Meh-teh by people of the region. Stories about the Yeti are well known within local lore and history. Though the legends of the Yeti have existed for centuries, Western culture was not aware of the creature until the latter 1800s. The Yeti is said to live in the frigid, Himalayan mountains, being approximately 7-10 feet tall, and are known to have a strong pungent odor.