*lawyers You can do the LPC now in 7 months if you take an accelerated course. For legal work experience-you might not be able to get into a solicitors firm, but might have better luck at the magistrates court if you ask to shadow the court clerk or someone. The most difficult part of this is finding a firm prepared to offer you a job as a trainee solicitor: it is a competitive job market. You do not need the LPC or a Training Contract to work as a paralegal. A paralegal is a legal assistant-someone who helps the solicitors but is not legally qualified. Paralegals will often look after filing and might help produce basic legal documents
Does there come a point where the LPC qualification is no longer fresh? For example, I'm sure I read somewhere that if it has been five years since you completed your law degree, what you have learnt is now well out of date and you need to do a refresher course. (Original post by nulli tertius) It is not your LPC which becomes stale but rather your certificate of enrollment. Your certificate of enrollment is valid for the calendar year of your application plus 4 years afterwards.
LPC. There is a time limit of five years between starting and finishing the LPC. To repeat, you must complete the LPC within five years of beginning it. We also advise you to check that your qualifications are recognised by the Solicitors Regulation Authority or Bar Standards Board. Once you have completed a law degree or the GDL, there is no time limit on the validity of either for starting the LPC. To be clear, under the current rules it would be absolutely fine to take the LPC 10 or even 15 years after graduating from your law degree or GDL.
In 2005, a total of 6,554 people passed the LPC, an overall rate of 84%, representing a 3% rise from the previous year. It is possible to sit all LPC exams three times before failing the course. It is not uncommon for law firms to provide sponsorship to LPC students as part of a job offer. Generally sponsorship is only offered by wealthy commercial practices, although a limited number of legal aid sponsorship packages (funded by the Law Society of England and Wales) do exist.
The Legal Practice Course (LPC) – also known as the Postgraduate Diploma in Legal Practice – is the final vocational stage for becoming a solicitor in England and Wales. The course is designed to provide a bridge between academic study and training in a law firm. It is a one-year, full-time (or two-year, part-time) course, and tuition fees range from £8,000-£14,550 a year. A small proportion of students may have their fees and some living expenses paid for by future employers under a training contract. It is not uncommon for law firms to provide sponsorship to LPC students as part of a job offer. Generally sponsorship is only offered by wealthy commercial practices, although a limited number of legal aid sponsorship packages (funded by the Law Society of England and Wales) do exist.
The Legal Practice Course (LPC) is part of the vocational stage of training and can be studied full or part time with an authorised LPC provider. The aim of the LPC is to prepare students for work-based learning and to provide a general foundation for practice. The LPC comprises two stages: 
In order to apply for licensure you will need to submit a LPC Application for Licensure Endorsement, $200 non-refundable application fee in the form of a money order, cashier’s check, or certified check, a Declaration of Practices and Procedures, and a recent photo with your signature on the back. The National Counselor Examination (NCE) is offered several times throughout the year and is offered in written and computer-based format. The Louisiana LPC Board does not limit how many times you may take the NCE, but NBCC requires applicants to wait 3 months before re-taking the exam.
The degree by itself doesn't really qualify you to do anything other than apply for general graduate schemes. If you want to become a solicitor the LPC is mandatory, and you must also spend two years as a trainee solicitor (Training Contract). The most difficult part of this is finding a firm prepared to offer you a job as a trainee solicitor: it is a competitive job market. You do not need the LPC or a Training Contract to work as a paralegal. A paralegal is a legal assistant-someone who helps the solicitors but is not legally qualified. Paralegals will often look after filing and might help produce basic legal documents
The Legal Practice Course (LPC) is the compulsory vocational stage that you will take after completing your law degree or conversion course. The LPC ensures you have the necessary skills to work in a solicitor's office. You can take it full-time, which will take a year, or do it over two years part-time. 