It was written in 1486 by Heinrich Kramer and Jacob Sprenger, and was first published in Germany in 1487. Its main purpose was to challenge all arguments against the existence of witchcraft and to instruct magistrates on how to identify, interrogate and convict witches. However, the inclusion of the bull certainly gave the impression that the Malleus Maleficarum had been granted approval by Pope Innocent VIII. Some believe that the Letter of Approbation from The Faculty of Theology of the University of Cologne was a falsified document.
This is the best known (i.e., the most infamous) of the witch-hunt manuals. Written in Latin, the Malleus was first submitted to the University of Cologne on May 9th, 1487. The title is translated as The Hammer of Witches. Written by James Sprenger and Henry Kramer (of which little is known), the Malleus remained in use for three hundred years. Although the Malleus is manifestly a document which displays the cruelty, barbarism, and ignorance of the Inquisition, it has also been interpreted as evidence of a wide-spread subterranean pagan tradition which worshiped a pre-Christian horned deity, particularly by Margaret Murray.
The Malleus Maleficarum — The Hammer of Witches: a review of the book by Heinrich Kramer and Jacobus Sprenger as translated by Rev. Montague Summers. Witch-hunt: an investigation of or campaign against dissenters (as political opponents) conducted on the pretext of protecting the public welfare. 
For the song by AFI, see Black Sails in the Sunset. The Malleus Maleficarum (commonly rendered into English as Hammer of [the] Witches; Der Hexenhammer in German) is a treatise on the prosecution of witches, written in 1486 by Heinrich Kramer, a German Catholic clergyman. The book was first published in Speyer, Germany, in 1487. The Malleus Maleficarum often makes reference to the Bible and Aristotelian thought, and it is heavily influenced by the philosophical tenets of Neo-Platonism. It also mentions astrology and astronomy, which had recently been reintroduced to the West by the ancient works of Pythagoras.
Malleus Maleficarum has a very specific conception of what a witch is, one that differs dramatically from earlier times. The word used, Malefica, carries the implicit condemnation that other words also referring to women with supernatural powers, lacked. The Malleus Maleficarum often makes reference to the Bible and Aristotelian thought, and it is heavily influenced by the philosophical tenets of Neo-Platonism. It also mentions astrology and astronomy, which had recently been reintroduced to the West by the ancient works of Pythagoras.
The Malleus Maleficarum,(Latin for The Hammer Against Witches) is a famous treatise on witches, written in 1486 by Heinrich Kramer and Jacob Sprenger, two Inquisitors of the Catholic Church, and was first published in Germany in 1487. The book was written in 1486 by Heinrich Kramer, a German clergyman, but only three years after its publication the Catholic Church condemned Malleus Maleficarum as false. In spite of this, it was influential in encouraging and regulating the witch hunt that spread throughout Europe.
Malleus Maleficarum, or The Hammer of the Witches in English, was an attempt to. rebunk a number of myths about witches and was published in 1487. The Catholic Church had denied the existence of witchcraft at various points during the Middle Ages, relegating witch burning to a folk practice. 
The Malleus Maleficarum, written in 1486 - 1487 in Latin, is also known as The Hammer of Witches, a translation of the title. Its writing is credited to two German Dominican monks, Heinrich Kramer and Jacob Sprenger. The two were also theology professors. Background to the Malleus Maleficarum. During the 9th through 13th centuries, the church had established and enforced penalties for witchcraft. Originally, these were based on the church's assertion that witchcraft was a superstition and thus belief in witchcraft was not in accord with the church's theology.
Cover of the seventh Cologne edition of the Malleus Maleficarum, 1520 (from the University of Sydney Library). The Latin title is  MALLEUS MALEFICARUM, Maleficas, & earum haeresim, hæresim ut phramea potentissima.  (Conterens: English The hammer Of witches which Destroyeth witches and their heresy as with a-two edged. sword Kramer (and possibly Sprenger) submitted the Malleus Maleficarum to the University of Cologne’s Faculty of Theology in 1487, hoping for an endorsement that would lend the text a further air of legitimacy. Instead, the faculty condemned it as being both unethical and illegal.
1 The title of this episode, Malleus Maleficarum (meaning: Witch Hammer) is the title of a book first published in 1486, which basically served as the Inquisitor's how-to manual of identifying and destroying witches during the Inquisition. 