Tyre Speed Rating. The speed rating of a tyre is displayed on the sidewall. Like in the image, you will find it at the end of the tyre's size. It is always represented by a letter-in the following example the tyre speed rating is W. Once you know your tyre speed rating, you can work out what is the maximum speed your tyre is capable of maintaining. For example, the W rating seen in the image, tells us that this tyre can reach speeds of up to 168mph. Speed ratings are based on tests in which engineers run the tyre at 6.2 mph steps, in 10 minute increments, until the required speed has been met.
Speed Rating. The speed rating of a tyre is represented by a letter of the alphabet at the end of the tyre size code and indicates the maximum speed capability of the tyre. Tyres receive a speed rating based on a series of tests which measure the tyres capability to handle a set speed for a prolonged period of time. Although not illegal, it is not advisable to have tyres with a lower speed rating or load index than the manufacturer recommended tyre specification for your vehicle, or to have a combination of different tyre construction types.
Most car and van tyres used in the UK have both a load and speed rating after the tyre size, e.g. 195/65R15 is usually followed by 91V. This means the tyres can carry their rated load upto a maximum non-stop speed of 240 kph. 
If necessary, you can use a tire with a speed rating that is greater than the speed rating recommended for your car (for example, instead of using an H-rated tire on the Audi A3, you could use a V-rated tire (149 mph). Tire speed rating. Speed rating ensures that a vehicle’s tires match its top speed capability. Going back to our Audi, the “H” speed rating is equal to 130 miles per hour, meaning that under optimal conditions**, the tire can perform at speeds up to 130 mph.
Speed ratings. The speed rating of your tyre can be found on the on the outside of the sidewall. It’s shown as a letter after your size in the picture. In this case it’s a V rated tyre this indicates the speed rating. We recommend that you fit the correct speed rated tyre as recommended by the manufacturer of the vehicle. The speed rating of your tyre can be found on the on the outside of the sidewall. It’s shown as a letter after your size in the picture. In this case it’s a V rated tyre this indicates the speed rating
Speed rating is easy to locate because it’s usually the last item in the character sequence in the tire’s size code. For example in this tire code: “P205/60R16 82S,” S is the speed rating. To view the tire size code for your current tires, just look at the sidewall. 
1 We do not recommend downgrading the speed rating of your tires. 2  This may result in poor handling and unpredictable steering. 3  However, if you want better cornering response, there is no problem installing a higher speed rated tire on your vehicle. 4  Never mix and match tires with different speed ratings on your vehicle. A tire receives its speed rating by the U.S. Government through meeting minimum standards for reaching and sustaining a specified speed.
Exotic Sports Cars. While a Z-speed rating still often appears in the tire size designation of these tires, such as 225/50ZR16 91W, the Z in the size signifies a maximum speed capability in excess of 149 mph, 240 km/h; the W in the service description indicates the tire's 168 mph, 270 km/h maximum speed. A service description identifies the tire's load index and speed rating. Service descriptions are required on all speed rated (except for Z-speed rated) tires manufactured since 1991.
The speed rating is described on the tire sidewall. Many tire manufacturers currently include the speed symbol in the tire size description. Example: P225/70 H R15 Speed Symbol. In this example the H indicates that the tire is capable of sustained speeds up to 130 MPH. Tires certified for Z speed ratings (top speeds over 149 MPH) will continue to be identified by including the speed symbol in the size designation since the top speed for a Z rated tire is determined in accordance with the manufacturer's vehicle specifications.