A photolithographic printing process is used to form a chip’s multilayered transistors and interconnects (electrical circuits) on a wafer. Hundreds of identical processors are created in batches on a single silicon wafer. Once all the layers are completed, a computer performs a process called wafer sort test.
A silicon chip is an integrated circuit made primarily of silicon; silicon is one of the most common substances used to develop computer chips. The picture shows an example of a silicon wafer with dozens of individual silicon chips.
It’s most commonly found as a silicate (SiO4, or one silicon atom bound to four oxygen atoms) and silica (SiO2, or one silicon atom bound to two oxygen atoms). Silica, in a rough and highly contaminated form, is the primary component of sand. Feldspar, granite, quartz, and more are all based on silicon-oxygen compounds.
• SILICON CHIP (noun). The noun SILICON CHIP has 1 sense: 1. electronic equipment consisting of a small crystal of a silicon semiconductor fabricated to carry out a number of electronic functions in an integrated circuit. Familiarity information: SILICON CHIP used as a noun is very rare.
Translations for 'silicon chip'. 1  British English: silicon chip A silicon chip is a very small piece of material inside a computer. 2  It has electronic circuits on it and can hold large quantities of information or perform mathematical or logical operations.ˈsɪlɪkən tʃɪp NOUN. 3  Arabic: شَرِيحَةُ السِلِيكُون.
silicon chip-electronic equipment consisting of a small crystal of a silicon semiconductor fabricated to carry out a number of electronic functions in an integrated circuit.
Silicon chip. A silicon chip is an integrated circuit made primarily of silicon; silicon is one of the most common substances used to develop computer chips. The picture shows an example of a silicon wafer with dozens of individual silicon chips.
An integrated circuit or monolithic integrated circuit (also referred to as an IC, a chip, or a microchip) is a set of electronic circuits on one small plate (chip) of semiconductor material, normally silicon. This can be made much smaller than a discrete circuit made from independent electronic components.