You'll need to roll over the entire amount held in the SEP IRA, depositing it into the Roth IRA account. You can have the rollover distribution mailed to you in check form if you want, but it's easier to use an electronic funds transfer to move the money from the SEP to the Roth account.
When you roll the money from a 401k plan to an SEP IRA, you can consolidate your retirement money into one account to make it easier to monitor. In addition, your SEP IRA may offer you investment options that are not available in your 401k plan.
For example, if you perform a rollover from the 401k plan to the SEP IRA, you could not perform another rollover from the 401k plan to any other retirement account for 12 months. In addition, you could not roll over the money from the SEP IRA that you rolled the money into
Function. To roll money from a 401k plan to a SEP IRA, request a distribution from your 401k plan. You can only request a distribution if you've left your job or are at least 59 1/2 years old. Once you get the money, you have to deposit it in your SEP IRA within 60 days.
Almost any type of plan distribution can be rolled into an IRA. This includes rolling a distribution from a former employer's SEP/IRA into another IRA. However, it is important to note that Roth IRAs can only be rolled over into another Roth IRA.
Even you can convert it into the ROTH IRA too. For more details speak with your plan administrator.       Answer   Rollovers   Y … ou may rollover your SEP-IRA into a:   * Traditional IRA,  * Safe harbor 401(k),  * 403(b) plan,  * Governmental 457 plan or  * Plan qualified under Code section 401(a).
The IRS allows you to roll over money from your SEP IRA into a range of retirement accounts, including traditional IRAs, Roth IRAs, 401(k)s, 403(b)s and even other SEP IRAs.
To complete a rollover, you take a distribution from your SEP IRA and within 60 days deposit the money into an eligible retirement account. You're not allowed to roll the money into a SIMPLE IRA or a Roth 401(k) or Roth 403(b).
To roll money from a 401k plan to a SEP IRA, request a distribution from your 401k plan. You can only request a distribution if you've left your job or are at least 59 1/2 years old. Once you get the money, you have to deposit it in your SEP IRA within 60 days.