The other 50% are parental .If two genes occur on the same chromosome, they may not assort independently at anaphase of meiosis. These genesare said to be linked and demonstrate linkage in genetic crosses. Linkage is present when fewer than 50% of thegametes produced by a double heterozygote are recombinant. 5.2 Genetic Mapping Genes with recombination frequencies less than 50% are present in the same chromosome (linked). Two genesthat undergo independent assortment, indicated by a recombination frequency of 50 percent, are either on non-homologous chromosomes or are located far apart in a single chromosome.
(ie, you will calculate a greater distance between two genes if you are doing a three point cross including a gene between the two in question than if you are doing a simply two point cross. II. Straightforward calculation of the percent recombination between two genes is called a two point cross. Thus the linkage map distance between the two genes would be zero LMU (Linkage Map Units). B. If the genes are on separate chromosomes (or are far enough apart that crossing over between them occurs in virtually all meioses), half of the offspring will be recombinant, the other half parental.
In contrast, genes located farther away from one another on the same chromosome were more likely to be separated during recombination. Therefore, Morgan correctly proposed that the strength of linkage between two genes depends upon the distance between the genes on the chromosome. After all, the farther apart two genes were on a chromosome, the more likely it was that these genes would separate during recombination. Therefore, as Sturtevant explained it, the proportion of crossovers could be used as an index of the distance between any two factors (Sturtevant, 1913).
One linkage map unit (LMU) is 1% recombination. Thus, the linkage map distance between two genes is the percentage recombination between those genes. In this case, we have a total of 300 recombinant offspring, out of 2000 total offspring. Map distance is calculated as (# Recombinants)/(Total offspring) X 100. Calculating the map distance, we have a total of 350 recombinants out of 1600 offspring. So the percentage recombination is (350/1600)x100 = 21.875%, so the distance bewteen these two genes is calculated as 21.875 LMU--significantly less than the 23.125 LMU calculated from our three point cross.
A map unit corresponds to a recombinant frequency of 0.01; it is also referred to as a centimorgan (cM), in honor of the founder of the fly room. So the distance between two genes (on the basis of the above) can be 66 units but it does not mean that the recombinant frequency is 66%. It is 50%. The reason here is that the loci are so far away that a crossing over is almost inevitable. 
Recombination can occur between any two genes on a chromosome, the amount of crossing over is a function of how close the genes are to each other on the chromosome. If two genes are far apart, for example at opposite ends of the chromosome, crossover and non-crossover events will occur in equal frequency. For this experiment, a total of 2335 gametes were analyzed, and 303 (151 pr+ vg+ + 154 pr vg) of these were the result of recombination. The estimate of the linkage distance between pr and vg from these experiments is 13.0 cM [(303/2335)*100].
All linkage map distances are calculated as the percentage recombination between two loci. This is reflected in the percentage of recombinant offspring. A. If two genes are completely linked, all of the offspring will be parental (have the same linkage as the parents); there will be no recombinant offspring. Thus the linkage map distance between the two genes would be zero LMU (Linkage Map Units). B. If the genes are on separate chromosomes (or are far enough apart that crossing over between them occurs in virtually all meioses), half of the offspring will be recombinant, the other half parental.
Recombination and Estimating the Distance Between Genes. Physical crossing over during meiosis I is a normal event. The effect of this event is to rearrange heterozygous homologous chromsomes into new combinations. The term used for crossing over is recombination. For this experiment, a total of 2335 gametes were analyzed, and 303 (151 pr+ vg+ + 154 pr vg) of these were the result of recombination. The estimate of the linkage distance between pr and vg from these experiments is 13.0 cM [(303/2335)*100].
• The distance between two points on the genetic map of a chromosome is the average number of crossovers between them. Recombination Mapping with a Two‐Point Testcross. • The Recombination Frequency between vg and b is 18% • This is equal to 18 map units, or 18 centiMorgans (cM) on the genetic map. 