Ronnii said: 'BAD STUFF! I have IBS, Activia yogurt should have been a good thing for me, but I have only had 3 (one daily for 3 days) and this is my 2nd day home sick from work! Horrible cramps, rumbling stomach 24/7, diarrhea (LOTS), every time I eat, it just gets worse.
** *Contains 14% of the DV of protein (7g) than regular lowfat yogurt. ACTIVIA Greek: 12g (24% DV). Protein Regular Lowfat Yogurt: 5g (10%DV) Protein per 5.3oz. ** Activia helps regulate the digestive system when consumed daily for two weeks as part of a balanced diet and healthy lifestyle.
Trader Joes Organic Low Fat Yogurt: This is a great yogurt with a creamy taste and wins for the least amount of sugar for 4 ounces. It has 12g of sugar, 3g of fat, 2g of fiber and 15% DV of calcium (less calcium than Yoplait Kids and Yo Kids).
http://www.activia.us.com/activia-benefits/faqs. Probiotics are safe for children. However, if your daughter is already regular and doesn't need the help-- I would take the advice of Dr. Susan and purchase a more natural yogurt
'I ate Activia yogurt 2 mornings in a row, and have had severe waves of nausea, stomach cramping, and a bad dull ache in my stomach for days. Activia is the only new thing I added to my diet and believe that it made me extremely sick.
If your baby has been having digestive issues, you might have considered giving them Activia yogurt to help regulate things. After all of the advertising that’s been done by Dannon to promote their new line of yogurt, it’s no wonder that this question has come up.
The bacteria in Activia yogurt is not any of the ones that cause BV. Having said that, it is possible-although not likely-to have somehow causd an imbalance. G said: 'I am mid-30s, male, and had been trying to solve my allergy problems for nearly 15 years through a variety of means.
Help face the day feeling good inside. Discover Activia ® - a creamy, delicious probiotic lowfat yogurt that not only tastes good, but helps regulate your digestive system * to help make you feel good inside. Dive into one of our seven yummy flavors today.
March 23, 2013 - 10:07am. My son is three and has been eating Activia every other day since I was not sure about the intake for children. I found that it has kept his bowels regular without straining as in the past.