Borax (sodium tetraborate hexahydrate or sodium borate) is a naturally-occurring mineral composed of sodium, boron, oxygen and water. It has been used as a remedy for over 4000 years. Most commercially-produced borax is mined from deposits produced by the repeated evaporation of seasonal lakes.
Borax is one of those domestic remedies that has been long used for local conditions as a soothing substance and for a healing purpose. In “nursing sore mouth” of mother or child Borax has been used in the families of old, in the form of Borax and honey, as a wash.
Borax is used in the process of making boric acid, but there is a tremendous chemical difference between the two. Borax is a naturally occurring mineral, though of course, that doesn’t make it inert or safe either. Arsenic is a naturally occurring metalloid but it isn’t safe for human use.
Borax, of the mule team variety, is sodium tetraborate or sodium borate (to get all official for a second) and NOT boric acid (hydrogen borate), which is a common misconception on the interwebs apparently.
Borax, also known as sodium borate, sodium tetraborate, or disodium tetraborate, is an important boron compound, a mineral, and a salt of boric acid. Powdered borax is white, consisting of soft colorless crystals that dissolve easily in water. Borax has a wide variety of uses.
The term “borax” is used to refer both to a mineral and to a refined compound with numerous applications. The mineral takes the form of colorless to white soft crystals, which can sometimes be tinged with brown, yellow, or green. When struck against another material, borax leaves a crumbly white streak.
Makes sense not to use any form: borax, sodium borate or boric acid as an eye wash, skin scrub or drink it, but it doesn’t answer the question about if occasional indirect contact (in things like cleaning products) is safe.
Sodium Tetraborate (hereafter referred to as Borax) is a salt of boric acid but it is not chemically the same as boric acid. If you’ve read an article claiming borax is dangerous that goes on about the dangers of boric acid or says they are the same thing, I would not consider that article credible.