If you like software, you could try this computerized catering cost calculator. According to the Bridal Association of America, as of 2009, the average cost for a wedding caterer is $12,790 for 150 guests, which includes food, drinks, cake and service. That cost works out to about $85 per guest. Plan on costs up to as much as $125-$350 or more per person if you hold your reception at an upscale hotel, country club or resort and serve appetizers as well as a sit-down multi-course meal and open bar. Here is a list of questions to ask your caterer before you make a commitment.
You should plan on $30-$70 per guest for hot hors d'oeuvres, salads and a bar serving only wine and beer. Plan on costs up to as much as $125-$350 or more per person if you hold your reception at an upscale hotel, country club or resort and serve appetizers as well as a sit-down multi-course meal and open bar. Here is a list of questions to ask your caterer before you make a commitment.
1 The average wedding caterer cost, including food and food service, drinks and drink service and cake and cake cutting fees is $12,790, according to The Bridal Association of America, which treats these as three separate categories. 2  The average number of guests is 150, so it works out to about $85 per person. 
If you are serving sandwiches, purchase enough meat, cheese, and bread for up to two sandwiches per person. If you are serving a meat entree, entrée figure about 8. oz per person and about an equal amount of vegetable side dishes for each. Guest for the wedding, cake you should count on one piece per. guest Deciding on the Amount of Food to Buy for the Wedding Reception. Determine how many people you need to feed. While some couples plan to feed everyone on their guest list, you can safely plan on not having 100 percent attendance at your event.
To calculate how much money per person you have to spend, take your budget and divide that by your number of guests. For example, a couple feeding 125 guests on a $2500 budget will have $20 per person to spend on the food, utensils, and equipment. This number will help you determine the type of menu to prepare. For a general guide on how much of each item your guests will eat, use our list below. Appetizers – 8 pieces of veggies with dip, 4 oz of cheese, 1 ½ lbs of crackers per 20 guests, 1 pint of dip per 10 guests. Take into consideration how long guests will be waiting before dinner.
If you are serving a meat entree, entrée figure about 8. oz per person and about an equal amount of vegetable side dishes for each. Guest for the wedding, cake you should count on one piece per. Guest remember to keep the top tier for. Yourselves make adjustments based on your. guests Deciding on the Amount of Food to Buy for the Wedding Reception. Determine how many people you need to feed. While some couples plan to feed everyone on their guest list, you can safely plan on not having 100 percent attendance at your event.
1 A reception in a private room in a casual or ethnic restaurant, such as barbecue or Chinese, or a bar might cost as little as $50 to $250 for a room rental fee, plus a per-person cost for food and beverage that can be as little as $15 to $20. 2  Other similarly priced venues include rooms at city, county or state parks. 1 Tip: Couples can save $200 to $2,000 or more by finding a location for both the ceremony and the reception. 2  But, if chairs must be moved from the wedding area to reception area, you might be charged up to $3 per chair for the service.
Q: I'm planning to serve pulled pork and fried chicken for a wedding reception for 200 people. Will 50 pounds of pork butt and 150 pieces of chicken be enough? 
Before you can determine how much food to buy for your wedding, you will first need to decide on your budget, menu, and guest list. To begin, calculate what amount of your budget will be used for the food. Once you know how much you will be spending on the food, you will then be able to plan an appropriate menu around that number. Next using your guest list, plan on feeding about 75 percent of your guest list. You can assume that approximately 25-50 percent of people will not attend your reception. For a general guide on how much of each item your guests will eat, use our list below. Appetizers – 8 pieces of veggies with dip, 4 oz of cheese, 1 ½ lbs of crackers per 20 guests, 1 pint of dip per 10 guests. Take into consideration how long guests will be waiting before dinner.
1 Expect to spend an average of $4,200 for a wedding of 140 ($30 per plate). 2  Of course, if you're having a fancier wedding be prepared to spend much more than that...anywhere up to $100 per plate depending on how decadent your reception is. 3. Wedding Cake-Average expenditure is $3.90 per piece of wedding cake. There are multiple ways to save money on this expense. You could order a half slice for each guest instead of a full slice (since most people only eat half anyways) to cut your cost.