Measure and replace the glass for any ceiling fan. light. Replacement glass for a ceiling fan light is commonly known as a globe. Globes are appearance, not functional pieces, so their value lies in aesthetics -- but without them, the room looks half finished. For real estate, this is a tacky and unprofessional way to show a property. 3. Measure the fixture or cup size for the globe with a tape measure. Start at the center diameter of the cup and measure from the outside edge to the outside edge. This will be the diameter of the replacement globe
Install or Replace a Ceiling Fan. Ceiling fans are a great way to keep your home comfortable year-round. Learn how to replace an existing fan or light fixture with a new ceiling fan. 1 For rooms measuring 76 to 144 square feet, choose a fan with a blade diameter of 36 to 42 inches. 2  If the room size is 144 to 225 square feet, select a fan with a 44-inch blade diameter. 3  For rooms that are 225 to 400 square feet, use a fan with a blade diameter of 50 to 54 inches.
Also you want to measure the height, you can get kind of a lower profile if you are about 7 and 1/2 feet, you can get a lower profile fan, that way it's not hanging down as much from the ceiling. Today we talked about how to measuring for a ceiling fan. Thanks for watching. Good luck with this project. I'm Joshua Clement with Lighty Contractors, and today I'm going to talk to you about how to measure for a ceiling fan. When it comes to measuring for a ceiling fan, you want to make sure you have adequate height for the
See more: http://thd.co/1lF6fBP. Watch how easy it is to replace a ceiling fan in nearly any room in your home. A new fan, or a fan with a light, will help cool your house, add a personal decorative touch and increase your home's resale value. 1  Howto & Style. 
When shopping for ceiling fans, be aware that some ceiling fans have different blade options which will change the size or blade span of the fan. Sometimes, the blades themselves will have a length attributed to them that a consumer may think is the actual blade span when it is actually the length of the blade. Best Answer: The size of a ceiling fan as stated by ceiling fan manufactures is generally considered the overall diameter of the blade sweep which they call blade span. The best way to measure blade span is to measure from the center of the fan to the tip of one of the blades, which will give you the radius. Multiply that x 2 and you have the size or blade span of the fan. Measuring from blade tip to blade tip only works of the fan has an even number of blades. Since most fans nowadays have either 3 or 5 blades, the radius measurement is more often necessary
The ceiling fan you install should be the right size for the room: 1  Rooms that measure about 75 square feet need a fan with a 29- to 36-inch blade diameter. 2  For rooms measuring 76 to 144 square feet, choose a fan with a blade diameter of 36 to 42 inches. 1 For rooms measuring 76 to 144 square feet, choose a fan with a blade diameter of 36 to 42 inches. 2  If the room size is 144 to 225 square feet, select a fan with a 44-inch blade diameter. 3  For rooms that are 225 to 400 square feet, use a fan with a blade diameter of 50 to 54 inches.
Measure the inside diameter of the bulb fixture with a tape measure. Measure from the inside of one side to the inside of the opposite side. This is the measurement for the fixture and what most manufacturers use when they place the measurement on the globe. After you measure for the replacement glass for a ceiling fan light, you might want to purchase a set of globes instead of just one so they match.