There are a number of ways to describe a research design. For example, a study may be either quantitative or qualitative, depending on the type of data that is collecte … d and the degree of mathematical rigor to which it is subjected.
2. Qualitative. Qualitative refers a way of conducting, and conceiving, of research. In qualitative research, the researcher is the instrument or the tool for designing, collecting, and analyzing research.
Full Definition of QUALITATIVE. : of, relating to, or involving quality or kind. — qual·i·ta·tive·ly adverb. See qualitative defined for English-language learners. See qualitative defined for kids.
Qualitative Research is primarily exploratory research. It is used to gain an understanding of underlying reasons, opinions, and motivations. It provides insights into the problem or helps to develop ideas or hypotheses for potential quantitative research.
One type of observation that is sometimes used in qualitative research is participant observation, which occurs when a researcher interacts (or participates) in the very situation that they are observing. Sometimes this is done with the subjects' knowledge, and sometimes it is done covertly.
The political sciences doing research used the qualitative data to draw characterizations of the different polling demographics that were then used to develop strategies on how to get them to vote a certain ways.
1 Relating to, measuring, or measured by the quality of something rather than its quantity: a qualitative change in the undergraduate curriculum Often contrasted with quantitative. More example sentences. 1  Yet this is in many ways a quantitative rather than a qualitative distinction. 2  Such a sense is qualitative rather than quantitative, specific rather than general. 3  One way forward is to use qualitative measures of protection, a proposal that has been made previously.
A qualitative observation merely indicates that the subject posesses a certain quality, for example this water is salty. A quantitative observation takes a measurement of th … e quality, for example this salty water has a concentration of 10% salt.