A typical team status meeting includes the project manager reviewing the work plan and asking team members to report on relevant task progress in the work plan. A typical response from team members is “The task is 90 percent complete,” or some variable percent. Project managers can make the mistake of assuming a status of “90 percent complete” is an effective method to monitor task progress. Using a status of 90 percent, the project manager updates the project plan and communicates to the stakeholders that the particular deliverable is 90 percent complete
In project management, a task is an activity that needs to be accomplished within a defined period of time or by a deadline to work towards work-related goals. A task can be broken down into assignments which should also have a defined start and end date or a deadline for completion. 
Before you start a project, it is important to know the overall objectives of the project, as well as the scope, deliverables, risks, assumptions, project organization chart, etc. The project definition (or charter) is the document that holds this relevant information. This glossary contains common terms used in project management and can help start the standardization process in your organization. Note: This article is based on and an update of Tom Mochal's article, Mini-glossary: Project management terms you should know.
If the % Complete field is set to 100, the Actual Finish field is set to the scheduled finish date. If you type a value in the % Complete field, Project automatically calculates actual duration and remaining duration. To see the total percent complete for the task, review the % Complete field in the timephased portion of the Task Usage view or other task sheet view. Example The Write proposal task is scheduled for a duration of 10 days. The assigned resources have been working on the task for five days. Project calculates that the task is 50 percent complete. In addition, you had estimated a duration of three days for the Conduct client meetings task
It is important to remember that in a project like the one above, Percent Complete would not be a good indicator of overall completeness of the project. That first 20 percent of Percent Complete was completed easily and without much risk. One person working alone writing specs is not the hard part of a software project. That comes at the end when all the developers are working at the same time on different parts. In this case, Percent Work Complete might be a better measure of how much work is left to do. The same is true with Percent Work Complete. A task with 40 hours of work and 24 hours of actual work will have a PWC of 60 percent because 24/40 = .60. It is easy to dismiss these two fields as the same because, many times, their values are the same.
The % Complete fields contain the current status of a task, expressed as the percentage of the task's duration that has been completed. You can enter percent complete, or you can have Project calculate it for you based on actual duration. There are several categories of % Complete fields. To see the total percent complete for the task, review the % Complete field in the timephased portion of the Task Usage view or other task sheet view. Example The Write proposal task is scheduled for a duration of 10 days. The assigned resources have been working on the task for five days. Project calculates that the task is 50 percent complete. In addition, you had estimated a duration of three days for the Conduct client meetings task
Microsoft Project is a project management software program, developed and sold by Microsoft, that is designed to assist a project manager in developing a plan, assigning resources to tasks, tracking progress, managing the budget, and analyzing workloads. 
Tracking Percent Complete Challenges and Road Blocks. If the project team is new to this approach, the project manager may experience some push back or reluctance to provides estimates. A common fear is the team member may face negative consequences for failing to complete the work in the estimated amount of time. A typical response from team members is “The task is 90 percent complete,” or some variable percent. Project managers can make the mistake of assuming a status of “90 percent complete” is an effective method to monitor task progress.
The details of the calculation are: Physical Percent Complete = [50%($3,440)+30%($1204)+65%(228)]/[$4872] Physical Percent Complete = 46% Further analysis regarding calculation of Physical % Complete is in a later section of this paper. • Substitute a resource and assign the task to someone who can complete the job within the remaining baseline duration (2 remaining days). This may change costs. • Change technology, perhaps the painter can use spray equipment as opposed to a brush and complete on the baseline finish day (Day 3).