The average dimensions for single and double car driveways. 1  The width of this driveway changes to create a unique, wavy edge. 2  AMS Landscape Design Studios in Newport Beach, CA. 3  Because of the retaining walls along its edges, this driveway was made extra wide so it wouldn't feel crowded or tight. For example, many homeowners opt for a driveway that begins at a single car width, but widens into a double car width near the garage. The total length of a driveway is completely based on your property's needs. For example, your home may only be twenty feet off the street, or it may be a quarter of a mile away.
Compare circular, curved, and straight driveway layouts. See also: walkway width. Single car driveways can be as narrow as 9 feet, or as wide as 12 feet. A 9 foot driveway is quite tight and may have difficulty accommodating larger vehicles such as delivery or trash trucks. For example, many homeowners opt for a driveway that begins at a single car width, but widens into a double car width near the garage. The total length of a driveway is completely based on your property's needs. For example, your home may only be twenty feet off the street, or it may be a quarter of a mile away.
A single car driveway width should be 10' wide, anything less. than 10 feet will be too narrow to drive or park on comfortably. 12' is often used for added comfort and assuring to get out of your vehicle without stepping on the lawn or landscape. Driveways should allow 20' of length per vehicle. Every 20 feet of driveway will accommodate all cars large or small and full size pick-up trucks & SUV's. This will allow room to walk between vehicles and park far enough from the garage door to allow foot traffic.
10-12 Feet In Width Is Normal. If you are starting from scratch such as with nothing or a stone base we would go with 10 -12 feet wide. If you have a mid-size car to pickup truck a 10 foot wide driveway would be the norm. For campers, trailers or bigger pickup trucks we would go to 12 feet in width. Deciding the width of a driveway depends on the type of vehicles you will park on your property and the design of the driveway. If you own only cars, then a single wide driveway will suffice. But if you own an RV or a tractor trailer cab, a double-wide driveway may suit your needs better.
Basic Driveways. Width 9 – 12 feet. Width for two cars – minimum 18 feet. Driveway is 12 feet wide. I like the look of more narrow driveways so opt for 9 to 10 feet if it makes sense for your vehicles and design. I rarely design driveways to be wide enough to fit two cars at the street entry. The only time this is acceptable is when you have a short driveway leading to a double garage.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. A single car driveway width should be 10' wide, anything less. than 10 feet will be too narrow to drive or park on comfortably. 12' is often used for added comfort and assuring to get out of your vehicle without stepping on the lawn or landscape. A two-car driveway can comfortably fit two cars, side by side. The  standard double car driveway is between 18 and 20 feet wide by 18  to 20 feet long. 6 people found this useful. Edit.
When it comes to parking pads: We figure on 10 feet width per car. And 20 feet in length per car. If you desire for your cars to be parked side by side, a double wide parking pad measuring 20 feet wide is appropriate. However, paying attention to the length of the driveway or parking area is important too. Deciding the width of a driveway depends on the type of vehicles you will park on your property and the design of the driveway. If you own only cars, then a single wide driveway will suffice. But if you own an RV or a tractor trailer cab, a double-wide driveway may suit your needs better.
The standard driveway width for residential homes ranges from 9 feet to 24 feet. The width of your driveway will vary based on whether you want a single car drive or double car drive. Additionally, the width may change to accommodate parking or a turn-around, these added features will change the cost of your driveway. For example, many homeowners opt for a driveway that begins at a single car width, but widens into a double car width near the garage. The total length of a driveway is completely based on your property's needs. For example, your home may only be twenty feet off the street, or it may be a quarter of a mile away.