Apollo has 12 variants that are used in English and other languages. Variants used in English include Apolinar, Apollon, Apollos, Apolo, Apolonio, Appollo, Appolo, Appolonio, and Pollo. The short form Polo is another English variant. Apollonios (Greek) and Apollonius (German) are foreign variants of Apollo.
Apollo. Apollo is one of the most important and complex of the Olympian deities in ancient Greek and Roman religion, Greek and Roman mythology, and Greco–Roman Neopaganism. The ideal of the kouros, Apollo has been variously recognized as a god of light and the sun, truth and prophecy, healing, plague, music, poetry, and more.
Apollo is largely used in the Italian language and its origin is Old Greek. It is derived from the element 'apollymi' meaning to destroy. Apollon (Old Greek), Apollonios (Old Greek), and Apollonius (Latin) are old forms of Apollo.
Mythology: the Greek and Roman god of light, music, and poetry, who drives the sun across the sky in a carriage, and also rules over healing and prophecy, speaking through the famous oracle at Delphi. The name comes from Appollyon, Greek translation of the Hebrew word abaddon, meaning destroyer.
The Greeks later associated Apollo's name with the Greek verb απολλυμι (apollymi) meaning to destroy. In Greek mythology Apollo was the son of Zeus and Leto and the twin of Artemis. He was the god of prophecy, medicine, music, art, law, beauty, and wisdom. Later he also became the god of the sun and light.
Neil Armstrong and other Apollo astronauts reflect on the project with thoughts personal and profound, on risk, fame, and what's next for the moon. Credit: TechMediaNetwork/Association of Space Explorers.
It is known from Apollo, son of Zeus and Leto, and twin brother of Artemis in Greek mythology. He was the god of healing, archery, poetry, beauty, and prophecy, and he was also later known as the god of light and the sun. The name Apollonia (English, German, and Polish) is the female equivalent of Apollo. Apollo's origin is Indoeuropean. It is derived from the element apelo with the meaning 'strength'.