3-5 Business Days 1. Affordable and fast international delivery to more than 180 countries, plus date certain service delivery with a money-back guarantee to select desitnations. 2 Free Priority Mail Express International shipping supplies are available. 
Priority Mail Express Flat Rate is a fast, overnight shipping service provided by the U.S. Postal Service (USPS) that features one low flat rate for the delivery of packages or envelopes. Using Priority Mail Express Flat Rate is very simple. As long as your package is not heavier than 70lbs., you will not need to weigh it. When preparing to ship with Priority Mail Express Flat Rate, you can order the free envelopes or boxes through the USPS website or pick these up at the Post Office.
Express mail is an accelerated mail delivery service for which the customer pays a surcharge and receives faster delivery. Express mail is a service for domestic and international mail and is in most countries governed by a country's own postal administration. Since 1998, the international accelerated delivery services are governed by the EMS Cooperative. Express Mail Service (EMS) is an international express postal service offered by postal-administration members of the Universal Postal Union (UPU). These administrators created the EMS Cooperative in 1998 within the framework of the UPU to promote the harmonization and development of postal services worldwide.
USPS First Class vs Priority vs Express Mail. The difference between USPS First Class, Priority and Express Mail is in the duration they take to deliver the item, and naturally, the related costs. If you do not know, these are the names of three of the most popular services from USPS, the United States Postal Service. However, Express is the costliest of the three options with each parcel costing more than $10. Using Priority and First Class, you can very well send parcels in less than $6. With Express service, you also stand to get an insurance cover of up to $100 should there be loss or damage to your item in transit.
Express mail or express priority mail is the highest type of mail available in USPS. There are times in a year when shipments do get late such as Christmas, New Year, and the whole of December in general. However, Express is the costliest of the three options with each parcel costing more than $10. Using Priority and First Class, you can very well send parcels in less than $6. With Express service, you also stand to get an insurance cover of up to $100 should there be loss or damage to your item in transit.
To simplify the product names, Express Mail will be called Priority Mail Express™. It remains the agency’s fastest product available, offering the same great service as Express Mail just with a new name. Express Mail International® will be renamed Priority Mail Express International™. “Express Mail Hold For Pickup” will be “Priority Mail Express Hold For Pickup” and “Express Mail Open and Distribute” will be “Priority Mail Express Open and Distribute.” At the end of July, the new packaging and labels for these services will be available online at The Postal Store® .
Priority Mail and Priority Mail Express has flat rate options. Here are the prices ranges for each category as at 2015 March. • First Class Mail pricing ranges from $ 0.49 – $ 4.12 at retail. Pricing is based on weight and type of items; that is, whether it is letter, large envelope, or parcel. However, Express is the costliest of the three options with each parcel costing more than $10. Using Priority and First Class, you can very well send parcels in less than $6. With Express service, you also stand to get an insurance cover of up to $100 should there be loss or damage to your item in transit.
Priority Mail Express Flat Rate mailpieces can be delivered to virtually all U.S. addresses such as military locations and PO Boxes. This mail class is a great option for mailing and shipping business and legal documents, manuscripts, clothing, books, boxed jewelry, office supplies and shoes. Using Priority Mail Express Flat Rate is very simple. As long as your package is not heavier than 70lbs., you will not need to weigh it. When preparing to ship with Priority Mail Express Flat Rate, you can order the free envelopes or boxes through the USPS website or pick these up at the Post Office.
If the US Postal Service doesn't deliver your package on time, they will refund the full delivery cost to you. Items under 70 pounds can be sent through Priority Mail Express to any address in the United States. Priority Mail Express comes with up to $200 in insurance and delivery tracking for free. USPS is the only overnight shipping carrier that is allowed to deliver packages to a P.O. Box address. Other carriers, such as UPS and FedEx, are not able to deliver packages to mailboxes in the Post Office. USPS offers free Priority Mail Express Flat Rate envelopes and boxes which bear the Priority Mail Express symbols, which you can order for free through the Stamps.com Store. You also can order free Priority Mail Express stickers, which you can place on your own packaging.
Delivery Time Guarantees. One thing that you should note about USPS Express vs Priority is that Express Mail is the faster option. That’s because it’s guaranteed to be delivered by 3:00 pm by the next day, usually faster than that, around noon. Priority Mail, however, is slower and is usually delivered within two or three days. Cost Difference. One should also note that there are substantial pricing differences between USPS Express vs Priority Mail. Express mail is the costlier option, albeit faster, and starts at $10.40. Priority Mail is the more cost effective option and starts at $3.85.