North American Trees by Michael Kuo Mushrooms and trees are inextricably linked. Most trees cannot survive without mycorrhizal partners from the fungal world--and saprobic fungi play a vital role in forest ecosystems, decomposing tree litter. Thus identifying trees is essential to understanding and identifying mushrooms. 
Many mushroom species are suitable for cultivation on fresh wood. The easiest to cultivate are shiitake and oyster mushroom, as they are less demanding species. Still, it is possible to cultivate most mushrooms that naturally grow on wood – tree stumps, trunks of dying or dead trees, branches, etc.
A majority of the most delicious edible wild mushrooms grow in association with specific types of trees. It can be of great benefit to learn to identify the trees that you find them growing with, as it can help you to locate more in the future and also help with your process for identifying wild mushrooms. The basics. To start with, fungi are not animals or plants, they are their own group of organisms and actually have their own Kingdom altogether! Furthermore, mushrooms are not even organisms in and of themselves, rather they are a reproductive part of an organism (in a way, like a fruit on an apple tree).
Mushroom and Tree Relationships. Nearby trees are arguably the most important things to note regarding wild mushroom identification. Sometimes this will be more obvious, with your mushroom fruiting directly on an easily identifiable tree. However if your specimen is on the ground, investigate what trees are nearby. Wild mushrooms that fruit on the ground and have a symbiotic relationship with nearby trees are referred to as mycorrhizal fungi. In a mycorrhizal relationship, the fungal mycelium joins to the roots of the host tree either intracellularly or extracellularly
Most city mushrooms grow in lawns or flower beds with or without manure or wood chip mulch and on live trees or wood stumps. But other sites are also productive -- empty lots, under trees, and indoors in flower pots. Unkempt lawns, infrequently mowed, with weeds (spared from herbicides) are the most productive. 
Comments. Submit. Mushrooms that grow on birch trees are caused by fungi that prefer the birch tree as a host. The presence of mushrooms on birch is a red flag that your tree is under distress as mushrooms are symptoms of a fungal infection. Fungal infections are dangerous for the health of trees, causing wood decay and possibly death. Oyster mushrooms (Pleurotus ostreatus) grow on birch trees. The mushrooms look like groups of shelves, have smooth uppers with gilled stalks, and measure 2 to 8 inches in width, according to the University of California IPM Online. Mushrooms appear in a variety of colors including white, cream, gray, brown, and lilac.
Although a few mushrooms with stems grow on tree bark, most do not. Bark mushrooms typically grow in the form of conk, also called a bract or shelf. Although some varieties of bark mushrooms are harmless, some cause what is called white rot, and some cause the more serious brown rot. A few mushrooms that grow on bark are edible, but most are not. Bark mushrooms most often grow in cool, rainy coastal areas and on the shady, north side of trees
Honey-Colored Mushrooms. The mushrooms commonly associated with oak trees are the above-ground portion of a fungus known as armillaria root rot (Armillaria mellea). This fungus is highly aggressive, growing black to brown, shoestringlike structures called rhizomorphs in order to seek out the roots of new woody hosts. 