Heavy water is a form of water with a unique atomic structure and properties coveted for the production of nuclear power and weapons. Like ordinary water—H 2 0—each molecule of heavy water contains two hydrogen atoms and one oxygen atom. The difference, though, lies in the hydrogen atoms. In ordinary water, each hydrogen atom has just a single proton in its nucleus.
In this 2 atoms of Hydrogen with 1 atom of Oxygen is present. In Heavy Water, instead of hydrogen deuterium (D) is present. Deuterium is an isotope of hydrogen with atomic mass = 2 So formula for Heavy Water becomes D2O. It is used in nuclear reactors as moderator.
Here's a look at what heavy water is and some heavy water facts. Answer: Heavy water is water that contains heavy hydrogen or deuterium. Deuterium differs from the hydrogen usually found in water, protium, in that each atom of deuterium contains a proton and a neutron. Heavy water may be deuterium oxide, D 2 O or it may be deuterium protium oxide, DHO.
Heavy water is a form of water with a unique atomic structure and properties coveted for the production of nuclear power and weapons. Like ordinary water—H20—each molecule of heavy water contains two hydrogen atoms and one oxygen atom.
Water vs Heavy Water. Water is the lifeline of all living organisms. About 70 per cent of the Earth’s surface is covered with water. Heavy water is also water, but it contains a higher proportion of the hydrogen isotope – deuterium. Two hydrogen atoms and one oxygen atom makes a water molecule.
Heavy water (deuterium oxide (2H 2O) or D 2O) is a form of water that contains a larger than normal amount of the hydrogen isotope deuterium (2H or D, also known as heavy hydrogen), rather than the common hydrogen-1 isotope (1H or H, also called protium) that makes up most of the hydrogen in regular water.
Heavy water, D 2 O, is water in which both hydrogen atoms have been replaced with deuterium, the isotope of hydrogen containing one proton and one neutron.
In heavy water, each hydrogen atom is indeed heavier, with a neutron as well as a proton in its nucleus. This isotope of hydrogen is called deuterium, and heavy water's more scientific name is deuterium oxide, abbreviated as D 2 0.