Gold can also be mixed with other metals to change its color; white gold, which is popular for jewelry, is an alloy of gold and platinum or palladium. Metal from Ore. Ores are rocks or minerals from which a valuable substance-usually metal-can be extracted. This happens when oxygen (usually from the air) reacts with a metal. Metals with a higher reactivity (such as magnesium, aluminum, iron, zinc, and tin) are much more prone to this kind of chemical destruction, or corrosion.
The ore is first crushed and then treated with something which will bind to the particles of the metal compound that you want and make those particles hydrophobic. Hydrophobic literally means water fearing. In concentrating copper ores, for example, pine oil is often used. An ore is any naturally-occurring source of a metal that you can economically extract the metal from. Aluminium, for example, is the most common metal in the Earth's crust, occurring in all sorts of minerals. However, it isn't economically worthwhile to extract it from most of these minerals.
Metals are very useful. Ores are naturally occurring rocks that contain metal or metal compounds in sufficient amounts to make it worthwhile extracting them. For example, iron ore is used to make iron and steel. Copper is easily extracted, but ores rich in copper are becoming more difficult to find. A metal ore is a rock containing a metal, or a metal compound, in a high enough concentration to make it economic to extract the metal. The method used to extract metals from the ore in which they are found depends on their reactivity.
Metals are very useful. Ores are naturally occurring rocks that contain metal or metal compounds in sufficient amounts to make it worthwhile extracting them. The method used to extract a given metal from its ore depends upon the reactivity of the metal and so how stable the ore is. 
Ores are naturally occurring rocks that contain metal or metal compounds in sufficient amounts to make it worthwhile extracting them. For example, iron ore is used to make iron and steel. A metal ore is a rock containing a metal, or a metal compound, in a high enough concentration to make it economic to extract the metal. The method used to extract metals from the ore in which they are found depends on their reactivity.
Minerals are solid elements or compounds found naturally in the Earth's crust. Those minerals that contain sufficient metal to be of practical and economic use are called ores. Metals are usually extracted from ores using a combination of heating and reduction with carbon in the form of charcoal or coke. Not all metals can be extracted from their ores in this manner and may need to be extracted by a process called electrolysis. If the malachite is in a lump form, you will have to crush the ore. Place the piece of malachite into a plastic bag. Place the bag on the floor or another hard surface which will not be harmed by the hammer, and gently pound the malachite with the hammer.
Typically, the process starts with ore being crushed into very small pieces and mixed with water to make a slurry. The slurry is pumped into tanks and mixed with air and oily chemicals that help to separate out particles of copper from the other minerals that may be present. If you're running a copper mine, most of the ore you start with (the material you dig out of the ground) is anything but copper. Typically, copper ores contain only 4 percent copper, so the vast majority is waste. You can use a variety of different processes to separate the copper from the waste.
To be useful, the metals have to be extracted from whatever they are mixed with. A metal ore is a rock containing a metal, or a metal compound, in a high enough concentration to make it economic to extract the metal. The method used to extract metals from the ore in which they are found depends on their reactivity.
The metal ore, a mineral or mixture of minerals from which economically viable amounts of metal can be extracted, i.e. its got to have enough of the metal, or one of its compounds, in it to be worth digging out! Ores are often oxides, carbonates or sulphides. As described above, the carbon removes the oxygen from the metal oxide. Iron ore is used to make iron and steel and iron is produced in a blast furnace by reducing iron oxides with carbon and it is the carbon that removes the oxygen from the iron oxides the carbon is known as the reducing agent.
The non-metal ions lose electrons to the anode (this is called oxidation) and are discharged as non-metal atoms which often combine to form molecules. In this way, elements that are present in ionic compounds can be separated by electrolysis. This method is used for the extraction of some metals from their ore. See for example lead bromide, magnesium chloride, potassium chloride, sodium chloride and zinc chloride. 