A. A. A. Thrush is an infection of the mouth caused by the candida fungus, also known as yeast. Candida infection is not limited to the mouth; it can occur in other parts of the body as well, causing diaper rash in infants or vaginal yeast infections in women. 
Oral thrush. Oral thrush — also called oral candidiasis (kan-dih-DIE-uh-sis) — is a condition in which the fungus Candida albicans accumulates on the lining of your mouth. Candida is a normal organism in your mouth, but sometimes it can overgrow and cause symptoms. 
Thrush (oropharyngeal candidiasis) is a medical condition in which a fungus called Candida overgrows in the mouth and throat. Candida is normally present in the mouth, digestive tract, and skin of most healthy people. The immune system and the body's normal bacteria usually keep Candida in balance. 
Oral thrush is an infection of the mouth caused by a fungal microorganism called Candida albicans. Oral thrush is also known as oral candida and a yeast infection of the mouth. Oral thrush is most common in infants and is generally not a serious condition in healthy adults or infants. However, it can be uncomfortable and lead to difficulties with infant feeding if it does not resolve or is not treated. 
1 Thrush (oropharyngeal candidiasis) is a medical condition in which a fungus called Candida albicans overgrows in the mouth and throat. 2  Thrush may be caused by a variety of factors, including illness, pregnancy, medications, smoking, or dentures. Thrush facts. 1  Thrush (oropharyngeal candidiasis) is a medical condition in which a fungus called Candida albicans overgrows in the mouth and throat. 2  Thrush may be caused by a variety of factors, including illness, pregnancy, medications, smoking, or dentures.
Oral thrush occurs when a yeast infection develops on the inside of your mouth and on your tongue. This condition is also known as oropharyngeal candidiasis. Oral thrush is caused by the fungus Candida albicans. A small amount of this fungus normally lives in your mouth, but is kept in check by your immune system. An infection develops when the fungus overwhelms your body’s ability to control it. Oral thrush occurs most often in infants and toddlers
Oral thrush. Oral thrush is a yeast infection in the mouth caused by the Candida albicans fungus. Symptoms of oral thrush include sore, white patches in the mouth, an unpleasant taste in the mouth, a burning sensation affecting the tongue and problems swallowing. 
Oral candidiasis (also known as oral candidosis, oral thrush, oropharyngeal candidiasis, moniliasis, candidal stomatitis, muguet) is candidiasis that occurs in the mouth. That is, oral candidiasis is a mycosis (yeast/fungal infection) of Candida species on the mucous membranes of the mouth. 
Knowledge center. Oral thrush, also known as oral candidiasis is a yeast fungi infection of the genus Candida that develops on the mucous membranes of the mouth. It is most commonly caused by Candida albicans, but may also be caused by Candida glabrata or Candida tropicalis. 