Neurons receive signals from either the external or internal environment, and transmit them in the form of electrical impulses to other neurons, muscles or glands. There are three types of neurons: sensory neurons, motor neurons, and interneurons. (See figure in text.).
A sensory system is a part of nervous system consisting of sensory receptors that receive stimuli from internal and external environment, neural pathways that conduct this information to brain and parts of brain that processes this information.
The main difference is that motor neurons move signals from the central nervous system to a central organ or point while sensory neurons move signals from the central organ or … point to the central nervous system.
Sensory neurons are nerves that take in information from either the outside world, or from within the body itself. Sensory neurons communicate this information to the brain wh … ich then issues a response. Sensory nerves take in and communicate information about heat, cold, pressure, pain, position and more.
Sense organs. The sense organs are highly specialized structures that receive information from the environment. These organs contain special sense receptors ranging from complex structures, such as eyes and ears, to small localized clusters of receptors, such as taste buds and olfactory epithelium (receptors for smell).
Receptors are parts of the nervous system that sense changes in the internal or external environments. Sensory input can be in many forms, including pressure, taste, sound, light, blood pH, or hormone levels, that are converted to a signal and sent to the brain or spinal cord.
These input channels receive information from other neurons or sensory cells (cells that receive information from the environment). A long branch, the axon, extends from the neuron as its output channel. The neuron sends messages along the axon to other neurons or directly to muscles or glands.
Mechanoreceptors. sensory nerve endings that receive various mechanical stimuli from the external environment or viscera. Some mechanoreceptors, called tactile receptors and concentrated in the outer integuments of animals and man, are sensitive to touch.
Sensory receptors that provide the organism with information about such mechanical changes in the environment as movement, tension, and pressure. In higher animals receptors are actually the only means by which information of the surroundings is gained and by which reactions to environmental changes are started.