Buscopan (hyoscine butylbromide) is an anti-spasmodic, which works by relaxing the muscles in the gut wall. Buscopan comes in tablet form and is swallowed with water. The most common side effects of Buscopan are a dry mouth, a faster heart rate and skin reactions.
Buscopan is known as an anticholinergic medicine. It relieves the pain of stomach and bowel cramps by helping your digestive system to relax. Buscopan blister packs of 20 tablets are available only at a pharmacy. Buscopan blister packs of 100 tablets are available only with a doctor's prescription. Always consult your doctor or pharmacist if the pain does not improve within 48 hours or if pain worsens after treatment. Keep your tablets in the pack until it is time to take them. If you take the tablets out of the pack they may not keep well. Keep your tablets in a cool dry place where the temperature stays below 25°C. Do not store Buscopan or any other medicine in the bathroom or near a sink.
Product description. Please note that you will need to be in to sign for this delivery. Buscopan IBS Relief Tablets belong to a group of medicines called antispasmodics, which are used to relieve painful colicky aching and spasm in the bowel associated with Irritable Bowel Syndrome. Before taking Buscopan IBS Relief: Only take Buscopan IBS Relief if your doctor has diagnosed that you have Irritable Bowel Syndrome. Do not take Buscopan IBS Relief if you: 1  have glaucoma (an eye condition), megacolon (a very enlarged bowel) or myasthenia gravis (a very rare muscle weakness condition). 2  are allergic to hyoscine butylbromide or any of the other ingredients of Buscopan IBS Relief
Thank you for your reply. I think you are half correct-Buscopan is also known as hyoscine butylbromide, but Levsin is not hyoscine, rather hyoscyamine, which is very similar but appears to have more serious side effects. It's ironic that the FDA approves hyoscyamine but not hyoscine butylbromide. Please note that Buscopan only relieves abdominal cramps-it is not effective against any other kind of pain. And it is not a treatment for whatever underlying disease you might have (and you should definitely get that diagnosed and treated). So don't think of this as a cure.
Buscopan. Drug: Contains the active drug Hyoscine butylbromide (an antispasmodic). Use: Buscopan is a smooth muscle (involuntary muscle) anti-spasmodic that is effective in relieving colicky abdominal pain, caused by painful spasms in the muscles of gastro-intestinal (digestive) system or the genito-urinary system. The typical dose of Buscopan is 10mg 3 times a day but your doctor will advise you on the most suitable dosage for your symptoms. The adult dose may be increased if the pain gets worse, up to to 20mg 4 times (max 80mg/day).
Butylscopolamine — also known as scopolamine butylbromide, butylhyoscine, butylscopolaminebromide, and hyoscine butylbromide — is a peripherally acting antimuscarinic, anticholinergic agent. Butylscopolamine is used to treat pain and discomfort caused by abdominal cramps, menstrual cramps, or other spasmodic activity in the digestive system. It is also effective at preventing bladder spasms
buscopan. Buscopan (hyoscine butylbromide) is an anti-spasmodic, which works by relaxing the muscles in the gut wall. Buscopan Plus is also available, containing butylscopolamine and paracetamol, although Buscopan Plus is targeted more at women with painful periods. Buscopan comes in tablet form and is swallowed with water. The most common side effects of Buscopan are a dry mouth, a faster heart rate and skin reactions.
Buscopan is used to treat intestinal spasms, stomach cramps and associated IBS symptoms. It is also used to treat painful periods, and Buscopan Plus is made specifically for painful periods. Buscopan comes in tablet form and is swallowed with water. The most common side effects of Buscopan are a dry mouth, a faster heart rate and skin reactions.