The structure of a PSO: one option. The diagram below illustrates how physicians might align with other entities to create a provider sponsored organization (PSO), which is in essence a specialized integrated delivery system (IDS). Although nonproviders (vendors) have some ownership in this example, the physicians and hospitals are majority owners. A different set of rules. PSOs are just one of the government's many initiatives designed to control Medicare costs by stimulating the movement of beneficiaries into managed systems of care. PSOs are unique, however, as the only emerging significant stand-alone alternative to “traditional” managed care organizations.
The concept of provider sponsored organizations (PSOs) emerged in the 1980s, when insurers were increasingly pressuring provider groups to cut health care costs. A different set of rules. PSOs are just one of the government's many initiatives designed to control Medicare costs by stimulating the movement of beneficiaries into managed systems of care. PSOs are unique, however, as the only emerging significant stand-alone alternative to “traditional” managed care organizations.
The following is an example of a federal statute defining the term: According to 42 USCS § 1395w-25 (d)(1), the term provider-sponsored organization means a public or private entity: (A) that is established or organized, and operated, by a health care provider, or group of affiliated health care providers; A PSO is owned and governed by health care providers such as physicians, hospitals, or allied health professionals and not by an insurance company. PSO may be either profit or not-for-profit entities, or public or private entities. PSO through its network, supplies all medical services required by medicare law.
M+C ORGANIZATION (MEDICARE+CHOICE). A public or private entity organized and licensed by a State as a risk-bearing entity (with the exception of provider sponsored organization receiving waivers) that is certified by CMS as meeting the M+C contract requirements. See 42 C.F.R. 422.2. Health benefits coverage offered under a policy or contract offered by a Medicare+Choice Organization under which a specific set of health benefits are offered at a uniform premium and uniform level of cost-sharing to all Medicare beneficiaries residing in the service area of the M+C plan
Definition: Entities sponsored by local hospitals, physician groups, and other licensed providers which are affiliated through common ownership or control and share financial risk whose purpose is to deliver health care services. 
Provider-Sponsored Organization (PSO) Law & Legal Definition. A provider-sponsored organization (PSO) is a managed care contracting and delivery organization consisting of a group of doctors, hospitals, and other health care providers who accept full risk for beneficiaries' lives. A PSO is owned and governed by health care providers such as physicians, hospitals, or allied health professionals and not by an insurance company. PSO may be either profit or not-for-profit entities, or public or private entities. PSO through its network, supplies all medical services required by medicare law.
Provider-Sponsored Organizations. Entities sponsored by local hospitals, physician groups, and other licensed providers which are affiliated through common ownership or control and share financial risk whose purpose is to deliver health care services. Alternative searches for provider-sponsored organizations 1  : Search for Definitions for provider-sponsored organizations. 2  Search for Synonyms for provider-sponsored organizations. 3  Quotes containing the term provider-sponsored organizations. 4  Search for Phras
physician-hospital organization (PHO), (in the United States) a management service organization in which the partners are physicians and hospitals. The PHO organization contracts for physician and hospital services. Managed care A corporation formed by a hospital and its medical staff to contract with MCOs. See Managed care.
2. A provider-sponsored organization shall not offer health insurance or other benefits for health care services in this State except through a Medicare + Choice plan, unless the provider-sponsored organization is licensed to provide other services in this State. (a) A provider who enters into a contract with an organization to provide health care services, if that provider furnishes those services directly to enrollees. (b) A group practice, if the group practice primarily uses only its employees, partners or shareholders to provide health care services.