With other users when you send them Snaps, including your username and the contents of the Snap you send them. Problems or trouble with Snapchat can happen and you can check your account process for a verification through email, phone, or SMS mobile. Sign up problems rating:
When you’re using Snapchat for the first time, you need to register your account. You can do this in a few easy steps: 1  In the home screen, tap ‘sign up’. 2  Fill in your email address, your new snapchat password and your date of birth. 3  Then tap ‘sign up’. 4  Next, fill in your new Snapchat username (max. 5  15 characters).
The Snapchat sign up page is available to register a new account with the Snapchat sign up form and establish a profile. This Snapchat.com sign up link has additional details tied to it.
5. Change your settings. You can change a number of settings on your account by clicking on the gear icon on the top right of the Snapchat or messages page. 1  Here, you will be given the option to change your email address or phone number and to turn notifications on or off.
Finally, you need to register your phone number. Snapchat will verify your phone number via an authentication code sent via SMS or a phone call. Once the authentication procedure is completed, you can add your contacts.
Download the app. The first step in making a Snapchat account is downloading the app. Go to the App Store (for Apple) or Google Play (for Android) and download Snapchat for free.
Snapchat Online allows you to use snapchat on your computer. snapchat snapchat online snapchat login snapchat online login snapchat sign up snapchat for pc snapchat on pc Snapcodes snaphotmobi snaphot mobi snapchat sign up online Sign In Snapchat Snapchat snapchat web Snap a photo or a video take a screenshot.
On the next screen, you will be prompted to enter your phone number. 1  The app will use your number to search your phone contacts for other Snapchat users. 2  Entering your number will also help other Snapchat users to find you. 3  Snapchat will provide you with a list of all the people who use Snapchat in your contacts.