Salary Assessor®. Salary survey and compensation survey data and analytics for 6,000 positions in more than 1,000 industries and over 8,000 locations. Plan salaries, incentives and total compensation by geographic area, industry, organization size, salary planning date and pay strategy. the data range used for this study was July 1, 2012, to July 1, 2015. The data contained in this report are derived from quarterly results. published in ERI’s Salary Assessor, a professional compensation tool used widely across the public and private sector, including most Fortune 500 organizations.
The Employment Cost Index (ECI) component of the National Compensation Survey (NCS) is a Principal Federal Economic Indicator that measures changes in labor costs. Average hourly costs for employee compensation is presented in the Employer Costs for Employee Compensation (ECEC) series. Wages and salaries averaged $21.82, and benefits averaged $9.56, of which retirement and savings plans averaged $1.24 per hour worked.
JobStar Collection of Salary Surveys Links to over 300 free online salary surveys for a wide range of professions and settings. The focus here is on California and national surveys. 
Skilled, Design, and Technical Support Salary Survey reports compensation data for 150 benchmark jobs, accompanied by up to four verifying survey sources. ERI Salary Surveys is the sponsor of this 2013 participant and digitized traditional wage, salary, and incentive survey available as national or statewide average. ERI's Salary Assessor® software reports wages and salaries for over 6,100 positions in 8,000 U.S. and Canadian metro areas. ERISA assists precise evaluations of market pay and is the only source of its kind which reports data compiled from all available salary surveys.
WageWatch provides valuable compensation and salary surveys online across multiple industries and geographic markets to human resource professionals, hiring managers, associations, employers, and other executives at the best price. Our cost-effective online salary and compensation surveys and reports are designed to help employers with hiring employees, employee retention, employee pay and recognition, employee benefits, budget planning, market pricing jobs and salary range decisions.
Private industry employers spent an average of $31.39 per hour worked for employee compensation in June 2015. Wages and salaries averaged $21.82, and benefits averaged $9.56, of which retirement and savings plans averaged $1.24 per hour worked.
SalaryExpert was launched in 2000 and draws on ERI's expertise in salary and cost of living data to provide the public with excellent tools for evaluating career, relocation and education decisions. For decades, thousands of corporate subscribers, including the majority of the Fortune 500 ® , have relied on ERI analytics to streamline the compensation planning process, develop compensation packages that attract and retain top performers, and provide defensible data that holds up during litigation and audit.
Before squashing the budget for surveys, consider how much you are spending on payroll and what effect the use of salary surveys could have on your bottom line. Most likely, your salary survey budget will be just a fraction of your payroll cost and you will certainly get every dollar back and some. If market data is used correctly the return on your investment could be priceless. The Benefits of Paying for Salary Surveys. 1  Cost Control: Knowing the market will help you develop a compensation philosophy that will help drive your labor budget.
What to look for in a survey. 1  Appropriate Jobs. 2  Salary Surveys collect compensation data for one or more jobs (job titles). 3  The jobs may vary depending on industry and or size of employer. Because of the time sensitive information, surveys are often identified by by the year or quarter in which the data was collected. The purpose of salary surveys provide a means for comparison of salaries at the company. Several salary survey demos are available at: HR-Survey.