Directions: Preheat an oven to 400°F. Place the sausages on a rack in a shallow roasting pan or broiler pan. Roast until the sausages are shiny but not yet browned, about 10 minutes. Turn the sausages over and continue roasting until cooked through, about 5 minutes more. Preheat a broiler. Place the pan under the broiler and broil the sausages, turning once, until browned, 2 to 3 minutes per side.
1 Place the sausage with the vegetables in the pan and bake for about 40 minutes until the sausage is cooked and the vegetables are nice and soft. 2  Remove the sausage and slice them thinly. 3  Place the sausage back in the pan and give everything a good stir. 4  Place a good sized serving onto a sub roll and enjoy! 1 Place the pan in the oven and bake for about 30 minutes, turning once to brown evenly. 2  Remove the sausages form the oven and place on a platter to rest for about five minutes before serving piping hot and juicy.
1 Line a 10x15 jelly roll pan with parchment paper for cooking/baking. 2  Place one package of sausage links in the jelly roll pan flat on top of the parchment paper in a single layer. 3  When the oven comes up to temperature, place the pan with the sausage on the middle shelf of the oven and bake for 15 minutes. 1 When the oven comes up to temperature, place the pan with the sausage on the middle shelf of the oven and bake for 15 minutes. 2  When the time goes off remove the sausage from the oven and rotate them to the other side.
Place the sausage links on the baking sheet. Line them up side by side, leaving space in between each link. Space the links apart as evenly as possible. 3. Cook the sausages in the preheated oven. Place the baking sheet on the middle rack of the oven to ensure even cooking. Bake for 20 to 25 minutes. 1  Note that thicker sausages may need to bake longer. 2  Extremely large or thick links may need to be baked anywhere from 40 to 60 minutes. 3  If cooking them this long, however, you should turn the sausages at least once. 
1 Place them back in the oven for another 10 minutes or until sausage is thoroughly cooked through. 2  Remove finished sausage to paper towels or brown paper and blot excess grease off of the links with paper towels. 3  Repeat process until entire 3-pounds of sausage is cooked. 1 When the oven comes up to temperature, place the pan with the sausage on the middle shelf of the oven and bake for 15 minutes. 2  When the time goes off remove the sausage from the oven and rotate them to the other side.
1 Place one package of sausage links in the jelly roll pan flat on top of the parchment paper in a single layer. 2  When the oven comes up to temperature, place the pan with the sausage on the middle shelf of the oven and bake for 15 minutes. 1 When the oven comes up to temperature, place the pan with the sausage on the middle shelf of the oven and bake for 15 minutes. 2  When the time goes off remove the sausage from the oven and rotate them to the other side.
It depends on how much sausage that you are cooking. To bake 4 servings (4-6 pieces of sausage), just simply place in baking dish, add some water, cover with aluminum foil and bake on 350 degrees for about 20-30 minutes. princess · 8 years ago. Thumbs up. 
Baking sausage is simple. 1  Remove the sausage from the refrigerator 10 – 15 minutes before cooking to remove the chill from the meat. 2  Preheat the oven to 400 degrees Fahrenheit (200 degrees Celsius). 3  Layer the baking pan with aluminum foil or parchment paper. 4  Place the sausages evenly on the cooking sheet. 
Directions Step-By-Step. Preheat oven to 350 degrees. 1. Place sausages into baking pan (13x9). Add water. Sprinkle with spices. 2. Bake uncovered for 20 minutes. Turn sausages over and return to oven for about 40 minutes more or until the sausages are a beautiful color like the ones in my photo. 3. Serve as you desire. I like these with veggies and sauce on Italian or French bread with hot peppers (Chicago Style!). Or serve with your favorite pasta dish like spaghetti.
Steps: 1  Preheat your oven to 400 degrees. 2  Place the vegetables in a baking dish and coat with olive oil, stirring everything well. 3  Place the sausage with the vegetables in the pan and bake for about 40 minutes until the sausage is cooked and the vegetables are nice and soft. 1 Place the pan in the oven and bake for about 30 minutes, turning once to brown evenly. 2  Remove the sausages form the oven and place on a platter to rest for about five minutes before serving piping hot and juicy.