In this article. When you have diarrhea, your bowel movements (stools) are loose and watery. It’s very common and although it feels bad, it's usually not serious. It typically lasts two to three days, and if you need to treat it, there are over-the-counter medicines, which means they don't need a prescription. You may have: 1  An urgent feeling that you need to have a bowel movement. 2  Thin or loose stools. 3  Watery stool. 4  Nausea and vomiting. 5  Bloating in your belly. 6  Cramps.
Causes of Watery Stool. If your dog has a watery stool, this can be attributed to food intolerance or his diet, or a more serious condition such as a tumor in the gastrointestinal tract. A sudden change in the dog's diet may also lead to diarrhea and vomiting. There may be other reasons why your dog has watery stool including: 1  Various internal parasites that lodge the intestinal tract. 2  An infection of the gastrointestinal tract, which may be due to something the dog ingested from the garbage or even meat that is not properly cooked. 3  A thyroid problem
The following medical conditions are some of the possible causes of Watery stool. There are likely to be other possible causes, so ask your doctor about your symptoms. 1  Inflammatory bowel disease. 2  Crohn's disease. 3  Coeliac disease. 4  Cholerheic diarrhoes (see Diarrhea). 5  Bile acid malabsorption. 6  Cholera. Watery stool: Introduction. Watery stool is usually a form of diarrhea. It may also be related to loose stool (also within the spectrum of diarrhea). Many conditions causing watery stool will be listed under diarrhea ....
Subscribe to our Digestive Health e-newsletter to stay up to date on digestive health topics. Diarrhea describes loose, watery stools that occur more frequently than usual. Diarrhea is something everyone experiences. Diarrhea often means more-frequent trips to the toilet and a greater volume of stool. In most cases, diarrhea signs and symptoms usually last a couple of days. 
1 Malabsorption syndromes are another common cause of watery stool or watery diarrhea. 2  In these cases, there is failure of the small intestine to absorb nutrients, which is further compounded by decreased water absorption in the large intestine. 1 Chronic cases of infectious diarrhea may be seen in immunocompromised patients (as seen in HIV diarrhea) or associated with a Clostridium difficile infection (as seen in antibiotic-associated diarrhea). 2 
Bloody diarrhea is a potentially critical condition in which there is blood mixed in with loose, watery stools. The blood can arise from anywhere along your digestive tract, from the mouth to the anus. Bloody diarrhea is often a sign of gastrointestinal bleeding due to injury or disease. 
1 Yellow and green watery stools can be experienced by those, who are on a liquid diet. 2  Likewise, black watery stool can also be an indication of underlying health problems. 3  The most common causes for this condition are peptic ulcers and gastric cancer. In a normal bowel movement, the stool will be firm and soft, with a brownish color. It is said that, normal stool has the consistency of peanut butter and can be passed without any strain. In some cases, changes in color, texture, and consistency of stools, are considered abnormal. Watery stool is one such condition, which can be caused by a number of reasons. Watery Stool and Diarrhea. In normal cases, the water content is around 70% of the stool weight. An increase in water content is considered abnormal
Watery stool (type 7) or mushy stool (type 6) is an indication that the water content in the stool is higher than normal. On average, water should account for approximately 70% of the stool weight, With more fluid stool, the water content to solid matter content is significantly higher than normal. Watery stool is not diarrhea unless it meets with the following criteria 1  : more than 3 bowel movements in a day. 1 Chronic cases of infectious diarrhea may be seen in immunocompromised patients (as seen in HIV diarrhea) or associated with a Clostridium difficile infection (as seen in antibiotic-associated diarrhea). 2  Malabsorption syndromes are another common cause of watery stool or watery diarrhea.