Mass flow is the movement of dissolved ions in water within the soil profile, downward movement due to rainfall and applied irrigation water, or upward movement by water evaporation from the soil surface, with this downward/upward movement occurring in the soil mass through its pores.
Notice that the product contains Sulfur in the Sulfate form, and Iron in the Oxide form. Sulfur acidifies soil by going through a process where it becomes Sulfuric Acid for a while. In the end, it binds with something alkaline to yield a sulfate compound.
Fine-textured soils may test low in sulfate-sulfur; however, applying sulfur may not result in increased crop yields. Also, the organic matter content of the soil and the sulfur content of irrigation water must be known.
Sulfur can be removed from soils in several ways. Uptake by plants is a major pathway for removal of soil sulfur. Leaching is the second major pathway. Sulfate-sulfur is similar to nitrate-nitrogen, in that both are negatively charged and not held tightly by clay particles (which are also negatively charged).
Sulfur Reactions in Soil. The form of sulfur taken up by plants is sulfate-sulfur and must be constantly replenished. Sulfur from all sources must either be in the sulfate form or be converted to the sulfate form before it can be used by plants.
As the soil dries out, the ability of the soil to move water upward to the soil surface limits the evaporation rate. Plant Uptake: Water moves from soil to plant roots and on through plants as a result of potential differences, just as it does elsewhere.
Ammonium nitrogen tends to result in the acidification of the soil because when ammonium is taken up, the plant roots release hydrogen ions into the soil solution. Also, as ammonium is turned into nitrate through nitrification, all of the hydrogen ions are replaced by oxygen.
When plants absorb nitrate from the soil, they quickly move it to the leaves where in the presence of energy created through the photosynthesis process, the nitrate nitrogen is converted to amino acids. Ammonium nitrogen absorbed by the root is converted in the roots to amino acids. This occurs because ammonium is actually toxic to the plant, and in order to prevent the ammonium causing problems, it has to be converted to some non-toxic form immediately. In this case it is converted to very simple
Some soils and rocks contain sulfate minerals. As groundwater moves through these, some of the sulfate is dissolved into the water. Some minerals that contain sulfate are sodium sulfate (Glauber's salt), magnesium sulfate (Epsom salt), and calcium sulfate (gypsum).