All too often, treatment staff are knowledgeable about either mental health or AOD treatment. They lack thorough training and education about dual disorder patients. There is often insufficient staff time available for the level of case management required for dual disorder patients. In order to work effectively together, AOD treatment providers and mental health professionals need to understand and respect the different historical and philosophical underpinnings of both systems. As explained in the third chapter, the systems developed separately.
Clinicians in AOD abuse treatment and mental health treatment usually are not trained in the other discipline. The availability of staff trained in both fields is limited. Agencies frequently lack the resources to recruit and retain staff who have sufficient education and experience. In order to work effectively together, AOD treatment providers and mental health professionals need to understand and respect the different historical and philosophical underpinnings of both systems. As explained in the third chapter, the systems developed separately.
For many patients, alcohol and other drug (AOD) use disorders are chronic, recurring conditions involving multiple cycles of treatment, abstinence, and relapse. To disrupt this cycle, treatment can include continuing care to reduce the risk of relapse. Because many AOD-dependent patients suffer from a range of (sometimes severe) medical problems related to their AOD use, some investigators have assessed the effectiveness of providing continuing care in medical care facilities rather than specialized addiction treatment facilities.
Introduction. A significant part of the challenge for AOD treatment services is that people with comorbid depression or anxiety and alcohol or other drug use problems will frequently be managed within AOD treatment settings, without specialist mental health intervention. Background. Concurrent mental health and alcohol and other drug (AOD) problems continue to pose a complex clinical and management issue for treatment services, despite increasing recognition of the high rates of these co-occurring or ‘comorbid’ conditions.
Epidemiology of comorbidity. Comorbidity is a serious treatment issue for AOD clinicians. Up to one-third of clients with mental health conditions have an alcohol or other drug use problem (Regier et al., 1998; Teesson et al., 2001) and may be referred to AOD services. Background. Concurrent mental health and alcohol and other drug (AOD) problems continue to pose a complex clinical and management issue for treatment services, despite increasing recognition of the high rates of these co-occurring or ‘comorbid’ conditions.
For the treatment of patients with dual disorders, the primary systems involved are AOD and mental health treatment. Programs that focus on dual disorders operate in both the mental health and AOD systems. Staff and administrative initiative is required to collaborate across systems. In order to work effectively together, AOD treatment providers and mental health professionals need to understand and respect the different historical and philosophical underpinnings of both systems. As explained in the third chapter, the systems developed separately.
Counselors who specialize in Alcohol and Other Drug (AOD) treatment are licensed or certified mental health professionals. They counsel clients who are struggling with addictions and guide them down the road to recovery. AOD counselors need to be able to relate well to their clients and establish a good rapport within the first several sessions. In order for treatment to have the greatest chance of success, your clients need to feel that they can trust you.
Historically, when patients in AOD treatment exhibited vivid and acute psychiatric symptoms, the symptoms were either: 1) unrecognized, 2) observed but misdescribed as toxicity or “acting-out behavior,” or 3) accurately identified, prompting the patients to be discharged or referred to a mental health program. They may have problems arising within themselves as a result of their psychiatric and AOD use disorders as well as problems of external origin that derive from the conflicts, limitations, and clashing philosophies of the mental health and addiction treatment systems.
The purpose of diversion is not to take away the discretion or power of the court but to use the power of the court to facilitate treatment. The AOD abuse treatment services to which the juvenile offender is diverted must be sensitive to the court's involvement in the treatment process. To be effective, a juvenile AOD abuse treatment diversion program must provide sufficient assurances to the court and to the community that the youth will participate seriously in treatment. Diversion refers to an alternative to the further penetration of an individual youth into the JJS.
A continuum of services (including AOD abuse treatment services, physical health and mental health care, and other social services) designed to meet the needs of these youth can be brought together in one coordinated plan that responds to the individual youth's multiple needs for treatment and other services. To be effective, a juvenile AOD abuse treatment diversion program must provide sufficient assurances to the court and to the community that the youth will participate seriously in treatment. Diversion refers to an alternative to the further penetration of an individual youth into the JJS.