“Ideal Body Weight” (IBW) is a term used frequently in the eating disorders world. Sadly, there is no industry standard on what it means or how to calculate it. Although weight restoration is the first order of business in anorexia treatment and often in bulimia as well, no one agrees on the method. Recent evidence has made it clearer that weight targets have been set too low for many patients and the undershooting of weight targets plays a role in recovery rates. Here is what I’ve learned that applies to all of us: healthy body weight isn’t a choice.
The socially optimal point of production for a firm in a monopolisticly-competitive industry, or in a monopoly, or in an oligopoly is the point where the average cost curve (A … TC) intersects the demand curve (or average revenue curve). 
It sounds like a reasonable question: “What is your ideal body weight?” But beware: this is a technical term that is often confused for what it sounds like: an aesthetic ideal. Recent evidence has made it clearer that weight targets have been set too low for many patients and the undershooting of weight targets plays a role in recovery rates. Here is what I’ve learned that applies to all of us: healthy body weight isn’t a choice.
Not necessarily. A normal BMI may mean that you are not classified as overweight or obese but does not mean that your body fat percentage is not within the range of overweight or obese. Other factors include if you smoke or drink, if you consume a diet high in fat and sugar, and if you are active or not. BMI is simply one measure of your health as it relates to your body weight. Reliance on BMI alone is not a good measure of your current health status. In short, if you are healthy, your BMI will probably be normal; but a normal BMI doesn’t always mean you are healthy.
A Weight Watchers® answered. A normal body mass index (BMI) does not necessarily mean you're healthy. While the links between BMI and disease risk are clear, it is important to remember that it is only one of several disease risk factors. BMI is simply one measure of your health as it relates to your body weight. Reliance on BMI alone is not a good measure of your current health status. In short, if you are healthy, your BMI will probably be normal; but a normal BMI doesn’t always mean you a
ideal body weight (IBW). Definitions: 1. a weight that is believed to be maximally healthful for a person, based chiefly on height but modified by factors such as gender, age, build, and degree of muscular development. The definition information for ideal body weight is provided by Stedman's. You can search our medical dictionary here. Stedman's, part of Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, provides a comprehensive line of health-science publications for healthcare professionals and medical students.
The body mass index (BMI) or Quetelet index is a value derived from the mass (weight) and height of an individual. The BMI is defined as the body mass divided by the square of the body height, and is universally expressed in units of kg/m 2, resulting from mass in kilograms and height in metres. The BMI is an attempt to quantify the amount of tissue mass (muscle, fat, and bone) in an individual, and then categorize that person as underweight, normal weight, overweight, or obese based on that value.
Answer: Your optimal body weight or ideal weight depends to a large extent on your height and gender, but also on other factors such as your age, your frame and your muscular development. The free weight loss tools available at myOBW offers you an ideal weight calculator as well as BMI (Body Mass Index) and Waist to Hip Ratio calculators. Keep in mind that while these tools can provide you with some idea of how you compare to others; your best indicator is how you feel in your own skin.
• OPTIMUM (noun). The noun OPTIMUM has 1 sense: 1. most favorable condition or greatest degree or amount possible under given circumstances. Familiarity information: OPTIMUM used as a noun is very rare. • OPTIMUM (adjective). The adjective OPTIMUM has 1 sense: 1. most desirable possible under a restriction expressed or implied. Familiarity information: OPTIMUM used as an adjective is very rare. 