Release time costs (vacation leave earned, sick leave used, and holiday pay) are considered part of salary costs. Consequently, separate claims for release time costs are not made. ABC's accounting system records release time as a direct or indirect cost in the same manner that salary costs are recorded. 
For example, if a salaried employee earning $100,000 per year spends all of their 1,800 regular hours directly engaged in. and works an additional 600 hours of unpaid overtime performing general administrative duties, the directly engaged salary or wages are $75,000 (1,800 / 2,400 x $100,000). Under this position, the amount (or a portion) is considered to be salary or wages, both for the purposes of the pool of deductible SR&ED expenditure and the PPA calculation, and not a bonus / remuneration based on profit on Form T661, provided that all necessary payroll procedures have been followed and applied.
A good range to budget for your salary is 5 to 15 percent of your gross revenue. If your profit margin is small at the moment, start low and give yourself room for an increase in the future. Accounting for your employee costs and your own wages is important to keeping your budget accurate. Being realistic and taking all aspects of employee expenses into consideration is part of how to calculate the percentage of salaries in your business budget.
1 Subsection 302(6) of Regulation 183 requires a corporation with an interest in a partnership to include a portion of the partnership's gross revenue and salaries and wages for allocation purposes. 1 For allocation purposes, the computation of salaries and wages paid in the year should reflect the following considerations: 2  Salaries and wages are allocated to the permanent establishment to which the employee is attached even though the employee may sometimes travel to perform duties elsewhere.
Since salaried employees earn a specified annual amount, it is likely that their gross pay for each pay period is the same recurring amount. For example, if a manager's salary is $48,000 per year and salaries are paid semi-monthly, the manager's gross pay will be $2,000 for each of the 24 pay periods. The pay for these employees is generally stated as a gross, hourly rate, such as $13.52 per hour.. Again, the gross amount refers to the pay an employee would receive before withholdings are made for such things as taxes, contributions, and savings plans. Employees receiving wages are often paid weekly or biweekly.
1 Subsection 248(1) of the Income Tax Act (Canada) (. ), 2  as made applicable by clause 1(1)(a), broadly defines gross revenue as any amount received or receivable in the year. 3  Subsections 302(6) and (9) of Regulation 183 further define gross revenue for allocation purposes. 1 For allocation purposes, the computation of salaries and wages paid in the year should reflect the following considerations: 2  Salaries and wages are allocated to the permanent establishment to which the employee is attached even though the employee may sometimes travel to perform duties elsewhere.
Employer Costs for Employee Compensation (ECEC), a product of the National Compensation Survey, measures employer costs for wages, salaries, and employee benefits for nonfarm private and state and local government workers. 
1 An exception to this rule is provided for the allocation of salaries and wages of a joint venture in the oil and gas industry. 2  As an administrative concession, oil and gas corporate co-venturers are allowed to use the T4 method to allocate the salaries and wages of the joint venture to the co venturers. 1 For allocation purposes, the computation of salaries and wages paid in the year should reflect the following considerations: 2  Salaries and wages are allocated to the permanent establishment to which the employee is attached even though the employee may sometimes travel to perform duties elsewhere.
The employee's salary for the tax year was $100,000. The directly engaged salary or wages (or portion) is calculated on the time spent directly engaged in. relative to the total time worked in the year: in this case the allowable salary would be $45,000 (90% x ½ = 45% of $100,000). Under this position, the amount (or a portion) is considered to be salary or wages, both for the purposes of the pool of deductible SR&ED expenditure and the PPA calculation, and not a bonus / remuneration based on profit on Form T661, provided that all necessary payroll procedures have been followed and applied.
Gross salary includes both taxable and nontaxable income. One source throws more light on the Gross pay as follows: “Your gross salary is the TOTAL amount of compensation that you receive from your employer. Depending on the type of job that you have, this can include any bonuses, commissions, profit sharing plans, retirement plans and overtime pay. It is not uncommon for employees to make the majority of their compensation from non-base pay” (http://www.ehow.com/info_8165672_base-gross-salary-same.html). Cost to company (CTC) is the total cost that an employee is incurring in a company. Net Salary is what an employee get to his/her hand after deductions. (This is the take home salary). The relation between the two: 1  CTC = Gross Salary + Other benefits (from the company’s perspective).