Gymnema sylvestre from China or India may differ in their gymnemic acid contents, that which is responsible for the anti-sweetness activity. that said, you do need to be sure your source of this material, especially as an extract, comes from a safe source and is extracted in an approved manner. Gymnema sylvestre can be helpful in controlling blood sugar levels in people with diabetes when used in conjunction with insulin. Gymnema sylvestre can be helpful in controlling blood sugar levels in people with type 1 diabetes.
1 Diabetes. 2  Early research suggests that taking a specific gymnema extract (GS4) by mouth, in combination with insulin or diabetes medications, can enhance blood sugar reduction in people with type 1 or type 2 diabetes. Use of Gymnema sylvestre leaf extract in the control of blood glucose in insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. J Ethnopharm 1990;30(3):281-294. Shanmugasundaram KR, Panneerselvam C, Samudram P, and et al. Enzyme changes and glucose utilisation in diabetic rabbits: the effect of Gymnema sylvestre, R.Br.
The leaves are used to make medicine. Gymnema has a long history of use in India’s Ayurvedic medicine. The Hindi name, gurmar, means destroyer of sugar.. Today, gymnema is used for diabetes, metabolic syndrome, weight loss, and cough. Use of Gymnema sylvestre leaf extract in the control of blood glucose in insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus. J Ethnopharm 1990;30(3):281-294. Shanmugasundaram KR, Panneerselvam C, Samudram P, and et al. Enzyme changes and glucose utilisation in diabetic rabbits: the effect of Gymnema sylvestre, R.Br.
Gymnema sylvestre extract derives from the leaves of a climbing plant native to the forests of central and south India. An effective natural treatment for diabetes, gymnema leaves have been used in traditional medicine since the 6th century B.C. The leaves of the Gymnema sylvestre plant contain gymnemic acids, which have been shown to slow the transport of glucose from the intestines to the bloodstream. This, in turn, helps to:
Gymnema Sylvestre is a perennially growing woody climbing herb found in central and southern India. On the verge of being extinct, this herb grows very sluggishly and is sometimes grown as a therapeutic plant to treat diabetes or excessive blood sugar levels. The herb Gymnema Sylvestre is indigenous to central, southern and western India, Australia and the tropical regions of Africa. It is known to be a vulnerable species.
Research has shown that Gymnema sylvestre extract is an effective therapy for both type 1 and type 2 diabetes. In one clinical trial, 22 people with type 2 diabetes who were taking oral diabetes drugs also took 400 mg of Gymnema sylvestre extract (as GS4) daily. The leaves of the Gymnema sylvestre plant contain gymnemic acids, which have been shown to slow the transport of glucose from the intestines to the bloodstream. This, in turn, helps to:
Gymnema sylvestre is a plant used in India and parts of Asia as a natural treatment for diabetes or “sweet urine .” The herb’s active ingredient, gymnemic acid, is extracted from leaves and roots, and helps to lower and balance blood sugar levels. Gymnema sylvestre can be helpful in controlling blood sugar levels in people with diabetes when used in conjunction with insulin. Gymnema sylvestre can be helpful in controlling blood sugar levels in people with type 1 diabetes.