1 Garnet is a deep-red or burgundy gem similar to the stones she has on both of her palms. 2  In gem-stone mythos Garnets are known as stones that provide protection to their users from evil. 3  Garnet isn't seen talking much. 4  Garnet wears her shades to cover up a third eyeball on her forehead. Appearance. Garnet is the tallest of the Crystal Gems. She has dark skin and curly black hair that is styled into a cube-shaped afro. Her eyes are always covered by futuristic shades and it is revealed she has three eyes. She wears a black and red bodysuit with cube shoulder pads and a pink star on her chest.
Trivia. 1  Garnet is a deep-red or burgundy gem similar to the stones she has on both of her palms. 2  In gem-stone mythos Garnets are known as stones that provide protection to their users from evil. 3  Garnet isn't seen talking much. 4  Garnet wears her shades to cover up a third eyeball on her forehead. Appearance. Garnet is the tallest of the Crystal Gems. She has dark skin and curly black hair that is styled into a cube-shaped afro. Her eyes are always covered by futuristic shades and it is revealed she has three eyes. She wears a black and red bodysuit with cube shoulder pads and a pink star on her chest.
Steven is imprisoned in a starship with two short star-crossed lesbians. Steven Universe belongs to Rebecca Sugar. Xajathembo belongs to Nick Dodge. The ending music belongs to Studio Ghibli/Disney/Joe Hisaishi, (Howl's Moving Castle). 
Amethyst is a main protagonist in Steven Universe. One of the Gems manufactured on Earth as a part of the Gem Homeworld's Kindergarten project and is the last known, Amethyst is one of the last surviving Gems on Earth to join the Crystal Gems.
1 Amethyst must have had an accident between the construction of the Beach House and the time of Steven moving in, as evidenced by the fact that her outfit had longer sleeves and no straps during Steven's song, but when welcoming Steven into the house with Garnet and Pearl, her outfit was as it is in  Gem Glow . One of the Gems manufactured on Earth as a part of the Gem Homeworld's Kindergarten project and is the last known, Amethyst is one of the last surviving Gems on Earth to join the Crystal Gems.
„. Garnet is one of the main four protagonists in Steven Universe. She is the leader of the Crystal Gems. Appearance. Garnet is the tallest of the Crystal Gems. She has dark skin and curly black hair that is styled into a cube-shaped afro. Her eyes are always covered by futuristic shades and it is revealed she has three eyes. She wears a black and red bodysuit with cube shoulder pads and a pink star on her chest.
1 She is also the first Gem to regenerate in Season 2, with Peridot being the second. 2  Amethyst is the only Gem to have to retreat into her gemstone because of a corrupted Gem. 3  Pearl was stabbed by Holo-Pearl, and Garnet was hit by the Gem Destabilizer from Jasper. One of the Gems manufactured on Earth as a part of the Gem Homeworld's Kindergarten project and is the last known, Amethyst is one of the last surviving Gems on Earth to join the Crystal Gems.
1 According to Jeff Liu, storyboard artist on Steven Universe who did some of the animated sequences on this episode, Garnet’s final move was inspired by Tengen Toppa Gurren-Lagann. Steven then Steven bombs! her and he asks Garnet what she did with her day, to which she tells him to tell her what he thought she had done with her day. Steven then proceeds to tell a story about what she did.
Steven, who is half-Gem, goes on adventures with his human friends and helps the Gems protect the world from their own kind. Sugar developed the series while working as an animator on Adventure Time, and it premiered on November 4, 2013 as Cartoon Network's first series to be created by a woman. The pilot episode for Steven Universe was released on Cartoon Network's video platform on May 21, 2013, and again in an edited version on July 20. The pilot was also exhibited at the 2013 San Diego Comic-Con, and Rebecca Sugar hosted a 30-minute panel about Steven Universe at the 2013 New York Comic Con on October 13.