In order to become a CPA in the United States, the candidate must sit for and pass the Uniform Certified Public Accountant Examination (Uniform CPA Exam), which is set by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) and administered by the National Association of State Boards of Accountancy (NASBA). The CPA designation is granted by individual state boards, not the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA). Membership in the AICPA is not obligatory for CPAs, although some CPAs do join.
2. Get a bachelor's degree. Most states, with a few exceptions, require that CPAs have at least a bachelor's degree in accounting or finance. These programs typically take four years to complete, and tuition and coursework will vary depending on the school. 1 Certain companies also require that a CPA have a master's degree. 2  Increase your job prospects by getting a master's in either finance or accounting. 3  These programs typically take one or two years to complete. 4  Some states allow prospective candidates to substitute relevant work experience for a bachelor's degree
3. Get certified in your state. You will need to take the four-part Uniform Certified Public Accountant Examination and meet additional certification requirements for your state in order to work as a public accountant. Some states also require prior accounting experience as a pre-requisite for licensure. 1 Certain companies also require that a CPA have a master's degree. 2  Increase your job prospects by getting a master's in either finance or accounting. 3  These programs typically take one or two years to complete. 4  Some states allow prospective candidates to substitute relevant work experience for a bachelor's degre
Texas additionally prohibits the use of the designations accountant and auditor by a person not certified as a Texas CPA, unless that person is a CPA in another state, is a non-resident of Texas, and otherwise meets the requirements for practice in Texas by out-of-state CPA firms and practitioners. The CPA designation is granted by individual state boards, not the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA). Membership in the AICPA is not obligatory for CPAs, although some CPAs do join.
Be sure to check the CPA Exam requirements for the jurisdiction in which you’ll be taking the CPA exam. Many CPAs hold bachelor’s degrees in accounting; others earn business degrees, and then go on to an MBA with a concentration in accounting program. Why is the CPA Exam Required. Earning an accounting degree, being employed as an accountant (Non-CPA), and becoming a CPA are 3 different activities altogether. A CPA can be an accountant, but an accountant cannot claim they are a CPA without establishing licensure via passing the CPA Exam and applying for licensure.
Before the CPA Exam: Earning Your Degree. The CPA exam is rigorous and demanding, and requires a CPA exam review course to increase your chances of passing. Plus, there are additional requirements you’ll need to meet before you sit for the exam in 2015. Regulations vary by state, but most require 150 semester hours of instruction – which is 30 hours beyond the typical four-year bachelor’s degree. Why is the CPA Exam Required. Earning an accounting degree, being employed as an accountant (Non-CPA), and becoming a CPA are 3 different activities altogether. A CPA can be an accountant, but an accountant cannot claim they are a CPA without establishing licensure via passing the CPA Exam and applying for licensure.
The CPA exam consists of four separate exams, which are taken one at a time. Candidates may take the exams in any order; but once you pass the first exam, you must pass the other three within 18 months. 1  Audit and Attestation (AUD): This is the longest section, at 4.0 hours. Why is the CPA Exam Required. Earning an accounting degree, being employed as an accountant (Non-CPA), and becoming a CPA are 3 different activities altogether. A CPA can be an accountant, but an accountant cannot claim they are a CPA without establishing licensure via passing the CPA Exam and applying for licensure.
Education Requirements. Each state in the U.S. has a state board of accountancy that is responsible for licensing certified public accountants (CPAs) who practice in that state. Each board issues rules that govern what a person must do in order to become a licensed CPA. 
Most states require aspiring CPAs to complete at least 150 semester hours of study to become licensed. Students generally accrue 120 hours via a traditional bachelor's degree program. To earn the required 150 hours, some schools offer the option of a combined 5-year bachelor's and master's degree program in accounting. Step 4: Take the Exams. Once education and work experience requirements are met, accountants may begin taking the certification exams. The American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) has developed four exams that must be successfully complete in order to earn the CPA designation.