Frozen Evaporator Coils. Another major cause of evaporator coil leaks is when the evaporator coil freezes over. When the coil eventually melts, there may be too much condensate for the pan to handle, so a good portion of it ends up in your home. The causes of evaporator coil leaks are 100 percent preventable. By understanding these causes and knowing what can be done about them, you can keep your home and A/C from damage.
1 FROST BUILD-UP on AIR CONDITIONER COILS-CONTENTS: what causes frost & ice build-up on the cooling coil or evaporator coil in an air conditioner or heat pump; knowing the cause of frost-blocked cooling coils can make the repair easier. Why frost or ice forms on a cooling coil in an active or in-use air handler. 1  The air flow is too slow or has completely halted across the cooling coil. 2  The cause of this problem could be as simple as a dirty air filter or it could be crimped, disconnected ductwork or even improperly-sized ductwork.
Causes of evaporator coil leaks that occur in the four-to seven-year time frame of an air conditioner’s service life – a much more common occurrence – most often are due to degradation of the copper tubing inside the coil. While there might be any number of other explanations for these problems, low refrigerant is high on the list, particularly with older air conditioners. The evaporator coil located inside the indoor air handler is a vital component in the air conditioning system. The coil circulates refrigerant vapor at a temperature of about 40 degrees. The refrigerant extracts heat energy from indoor air, which is drawn over the coil surfaces by the force of the blower fan
Here are some suggestions to eliminate formicary corrosion as one of the causes of evaporator coil leaks and low refrigerant in your air conditioning system: 1  Increase household ventilation with fresh outdoor air to dilute concentration of VOCs inside the house. While there might be any number of other explanations for these problems, low refrigerant is high on the list, particularly with older air conditioners. The evaporator coil located inside the indoor air handler is a vital component in the air conditioning system. The coil circulates refrigerant vapor at a temperature of about 40 degrees. The refrigerant extracts heat energy from indoor air, which is drawn over the coil surfaces by the force of the blower fan
When your cooling system has dirty A/C coils, you’re paying more to cool your home and getting less cooling than you’re paying for. An air conditioner doesn’t add coolness to the inside of your house; it removes heat. What’s left behind when you take out the heat energy is a cool, comfortable home. The components that make heat transfer happen are the evaporator and condenser coils. 
Comments are off. An experienced air conditioning technician looks for causes of evaporator coil leaks when tests reveal insufficient refrigerant in the system. Low refrigerant can be the root cause behind a number of A/C malfunctions from the subtle to the acute. While there might be any number of other explanations for these problems, low refrigerant is high on the list, particularly with older air conditioners. The evaporator coil located inside the indoor air handler is a vital component in the air conditioning system. The coil circulates refrigerant vapor at a temperature of about 40 degrees. The refrigerant extracts heat energy from indoor air, which is drawn over the coil surfaces by the force of the blower fan
A big part of what your A/C does is pull humidity from the air. Your A/C unit pulls in hot, humid air, then runs it over the evaporator coil to cool the air down before recirculating it throughout your home. The causes of evaporator coil leaks are 100 percent preventable. By understanding these causes and knowing what can be done about them, you can keep your home and A/C from damage.
The most common causes of evaporator coil leaks are a clogged drain line or a rusted condensation pan. The drain line can get clogged with all sorts of things, like insects, mold or dirt, which then means the water coming off the condensation coil has nowhere to go. The causes of evaporator coil leaks are 100 percent preventable. By understanding these causes and knowing what can be done about them, you can keep your home and A/C from damage.
My AC unit has what’s known as an A-frame style evaporator coil. The coil has a two halves joined together like the letter A and sits on a condensate drip pan. The drip pan forms a moat under the coils to catch the water dripping down as warm humid air from the house is chilled as it moves across the cold coils. If your evaporator coils are clean the condensate should wick down to the condensate pan. Dirt or mold on the coils will interrupt the flow, soaking up water and providing sites for the water to drip off the coils before reaching the pan.