The alkaline phosphatase (ALP) test measures how much alkaline phosphatase you have in your blood. Alkaline phosphatase is an enzyme found throughout your body. But it is mainly in your liver, bone, kidney, and digestive tract. 
Alkaline Phosphatase (Definition). The normal range is 20 to 140 iu/l.[12] high levels can indicate active bone formation occurring as alp is a byproduct of osteoblast activity (such as the case in paget's disease of bone). Levels are also elevated in people with untreated celiac disease and bile blockage. ...Read more. 
Test Overview. An alkaline phosphatase (ALP) test measures the amount of the enzyme ALP in the blood. ALP is made mostly in the liver and in bone with some made in the intestines and kidneys. It also is made by the placenta of a pregnant woman. The liver makes more ALP than the other organs or the bones. Why It Is Done. A test for alkaline phosphatase (ALP) is done to: 1  Check for liver disease or damage to the liver. 2  Symptoms of liver disease can include jaundice, belly pain, nausea, and vomiting. 3  An ALP test may also be used to check the liver when medicines that can damage the liver are taken.
1 High ALP levels can be caused by bone diseases, such as Paget's disease, osteomalacia, rickets, bone tumors, or tumors that have spread from another part of the body to the bone, or by overactive parathyroid glands (hyperparathyroidism). 2  Normal healing of a bone fracture can also raise ALP levels. An alkaline phosphatase (ALP) test measures the amount of the enzyme ALP in the blood.
The normal value for alkaline phosphatase is 53 to 128 U/L for a 20- to 50-year-old man and 42 to 98 U/L for a 20- to 50-year-old woman. Pregnant women typically have higher alkaline phosphatase values due to contributions from the placenta. Normal values are slightly different if you are older than 60 -- 56 to 119 U/L if you're a man or 53 to 141 U/L if you're a woman. Normal values can vary slightly among testing laboratories. Because this test is not specific for liver or bone, other liver-or bone-specific blood tests are usually needed to help determine the source of an increased blood alkaline phosphatase level. Symptoms may also help determine the source. Otherwise, an alkaline phosphatase isoenzyme test can
Alkaline Phosphatase (Definition). The normal range is 20 to 140 iu/l.[12] high levels can indicate active bone formation occurring as alp is a byproduct of osteoblast activity (such as the case in paget's disease of bone). 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Alkaline phosphatase (ALP, ALKP, ALPase, Alk Phos) (EC 3.1.3.1) is a hydrolase enzyme responsible for removing phosphate groups from many types of molecules, including nucleotides, proteins, and alkaloids. The process of removing the phosphate group is called dephosphorylation. 
Diagnosis and monitoring treatment of liver, bone, intestinal, and parathyroid diseases. Alkaline phosphatase (ALP) is present in a number of tissues including liver, bone, intestine, and placenta. Serum ALP is of interest in the diagnosis of 2 main groups of conditions-hepatobiliary disease and bone disease associated with increased osteoblastic activity. 
An alkaline phosphatase level test (ALP test) measures the amount of alkaline phosphatase enzyme in your bloodstream. The test requires a simple blood draw and is often a routine part of other blood tests. Abnormal levels of ALP in your blood most often indicate a problem with your liver and/or bones. However, they may also indicate malnutrition, kidney tumors, or a serious infection. The normal range of ALP varies from person to person and depends on your age, blood type, and sex. Find an internist near you ». When the results of your ALP test are in, your doctor will discuss them with you and tell you what to do next. According to Cigna, the normal levels for an adult are between 25 and 100 units of ALP per liter of blood. The normal value for a child is up to 350 units per liter (Cigna, 2010).
Alkaline phosphatase is an enzyme found in many organs, including the liver, bone, kidney, intestine and placenta. The highest concentration of alkaline phosphatase comes from the liver and bone. A routine blood test detects the total amount of alkaline phosphatase in the blood. Because this test is not specific for liver or bone, other liver-or bone-specific blood tests are usually needed to help determine the source of an increased blood alkaline phosphatase level. Symptoms may also help determine the source. Otherwise, an alkaline phosphatase isoenzyme test can