The red represents the blood spilled to maintain Thailand's independence. The white stands for purity and is the color of Buddhism. And the Blue represents the Thai monarchy. The pattern repeats so that the flag can be flown without ever appearing upside down. The old Siam (former name of Thailand) flag was a solid red with a white elephant in the middle.
The flag of the Kingdom of Thailand (Thai: ธงไตรรงค์, Thong Trairong, meaning  tricolour flag”) shows five horizontal stripes in the colours red, white, blue, white and red, with the central blue stripe being twice as wide as each of the other four. 
Thai Flag Meaning: The red stripes mean Thailand's nation. The white stands for the country's main religion. Blue is Thailand's national color and it represents the Thai monarchy/Royal Family. Hoped This helped Brought to you by: Firescream66 and the post starter. B … lue is Thailand's national color and it represents the Thai monarchy. The blue is also used to honor Thailand's World War I allies, Great Britain, France, United States and Russia, who all had red, white and blue flags.
Thailand flag description: five horizontal bands of red (top), white, blue (double width), white, and red; the red color symbolizes the nation and the blood of life; white represents religion and the purity of Buddhism; blue stands for the monarchy. Thailand Learn about the country of Thailand. 
Thailand National Flag-Information. The flag of the Kingdom of Thailand, popularly known as ธงไตรรงค์ (Thong Trairong) meaning tricolour flag”, features five horizontal stripes in the colours red, white, blue, white and red, with the central blue stripe being twice as wide as each of the other four. Thailand Flag-History, Facts & information for kids. The first flag of Thailand was created in 1855 by King Rama IV (Mongkut) that featured a white elephant on a red field.
The red stripes represent the blood spilt to maintain Thailand's independence. The white stands for purity and is the color of Buddhism which is the country's main religion. B … lue is Thailand's national color and it represents the Thai monarchy. The blue is also used to honor Thailand's World War I allies, Great Britain, France, United States and Russia, who all had red, white and blue flags.
In the middle of the Thailand flag there is a blue stripe which is lined above and below by equal-sized white stripes. Blue is Thailand's national color and it. represents the Thai monarchy. The white color stands for purity and is the color of Buddhism, which is the main religion of Thailand. The Thailand flag has a width-to-length ratio of 2:3. The Thailand flag was officially adopted on September 28, 1917. The flag of Thailand comprises of five horizontal stripes. In the top and bottom of the flag of Thailand there are equal-sized red stripes, which represent the blood of life.
Flag of Thailand. Thailand (Kingdom of Thailand) has a tricolor flag with five stripes instead of just three. The colors of the flag are in this order: red – white – blue – white – red. The blue band at the middle is twice the width of any of the four other stripes. The flag’s Thai name is Thong Trairong simply meaning tricolor flag. 
Thai Flag Meaning: The red stripes represent the blood spilt to maintain Thailand's independence. The white stands for purity and is the color of Buddhism which is the country's main religion. Proportions: 2:3. Thai Flag Description: The flag of Thailand consists of five horizontal stripes. The top and bottom are equal-sized red stripes, the middle stripe is blue which is lined above and below by equal-sized white stripes. The blue stripe is double the size of the other four.