Rehan is also from Arabic ad hebrew origin and the meaning is Scented. It is used in the Qur'an in the Sura Ar-Rahman and Sura Al-Waqiah. Aba« Abårayhae rayhä-N«rÅ«nÄ«, bä Ra rå. Nae nä, a persian mathematician artemisia Rehan. a herb from the artemisia List of Muslim baby names, Muslim baby boy names (male), girl names (female) & Muslim names meanings has been compiled from various resources. Please use this list of Muslim baby names only for reference/idea to name your kid/child.
up vote 1 down vote. There are two words in Arabic that are roughly spelled the same but are not the same. One is Rehan(Arabic: الریحان) and means basil in English. It's written with an H (Arabic: ح) in the middle and can be spelled either with an i or an e, but the e one seems to be more common. The other one is Rayan or Rayyan(Arabic:الریان), which means the source of irrigation. This can also refer to باب الریان, which means one of the Gates of Janna. 1. 
More About Arabic Name: Rehan. Rehan is fron Armenian origin, It meaning is Sweet Basil. Rehan is also from Arabic ad hebrew origin and the meaning is Scented. It is used in the Qur'an in the Sura Ar-Rahman and Sura Al-Waqiah. Aba« Abårayhae rayhä-N«rÅ«nÄ«, bä Ra rå. nae nä a persian mathematician List of Arabic baby names, Arabic baby boy names (male), girl names (female) & Arabic names meanings has been compiled from various resources. Please use this list of Arabic baby names only for reference/idea to name your kid/child.
Rehan is fron Armenian origin, It meaning is Sweet Basil. Rehan is also from Arabic ad hebrew origin and the meaning is Scented. It is used in the Qur'an in the Sura Ar-Rahman and Sura Al-Waqiah. Aba« Abårayhae rayhä-N«rÅ«nÄ«, bä Ra rå. nae nä a persian mathematician List of Muslim baby names, Muslim baby boy names (male), girl names (female) & Muslim names meanings has been compiled from various resources. Please use this list of Muslim baby names only for reference/idea to name your kid/child.
Reyhan is derived from Arabic: رائحة, rih or riha odour, fragrance and originally did not mean basil but myrtle. This is still so in North African Arabic (and Maltese); moreover, the word has been transferred to medieval Spanish as Arrayan. Arrayán rehan In India Tulsi herb (name). myrtle Reyhan is derived from Arabic: رائحة, rih or riha odour, fragrance and originally did not mean basil but myrtle. This is still so in North African Arabic (and Maltese); moreover, the word has been transferred to medieval Spanish as Arrayan. arrayán
Personal experiences with the name Rehan: | Edit. Share what you know! Nicknames for Rehan: | Edit. Share what you know! Meanings and history of the name Rehan: | Edit. As a Muslim name, Rehan is from the Koran, and means scented. Rehan is also a type of herb, also called Holy Basil, that has culinary and medicinal uses.
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Rehan is an Arabic word, meaning fragrant one. It is a common Muslim name for a male in Pakistan, India, and Bangladesh; however, in Turkey (as Reyhan) and Morocco it is a female name. It is used in the Qur'an in the Sura Ar-Rahman (the scented herb in line 12). Al-Beruni's full name is Abu Rehan Mohammad bin Ahmed Al-Beruni. He was born in 973 C.E. at Khawarzim (the old name of Kala-Kalpakskaya in present Uzbekistan). He is remembere … d by the world as a great and outstanding Physician, Physicist, Mathematician, Geographer, Geologist and Astrologer.