Software vendors that use core-based licensing are generally interested in the maximum number of processor cores available to each LPAR running their application. For the dedicated and shared-capped LPARs, the ENTITLED CAPACITY parameter from the lparstat –i provides the maximum number of cores available to the LPAR. When the server is running at less than 100 percent utilization, shared-uncapped LPARS also have access to spare processing cycles from the shared processor pool. This means that for shared-uncapped LPARS, ENTITLED CAPACITY no longer represent
I agree wholeheartedly that if you are running a single Oracle DB on a VMware cluster, then that is not going to be value for money. But the same would apply to running it in an uncapped container, or LPAR on IBM. The key is to use Oracle only where you need to, the amount of cpu wastage we see is phenomenal. As an Oracle licensing specialist I feel I need to point out that there is a big difference in your OLSA, and the order forms that give you your rights to use which are defined at time of purchase license metrics.
This document is for educational purposes only and provides guidelines regarding Oracle's policies in effect as of August 3, 2015. It may not be incorporated into any contract and does not constitute a contract or a commitment to any specific terms. Policies and this document are subject to change without notice. This document may not be reproduced in any manner without the express written permission of Oracle Corporation.
Oracle Trusted Partitions for Oracle Engineered Systems For approved Oracle Engineered Systems, (see table below), Oracle permits the use of Oracle VM Server (OVM) as a means to limit the number of Oracle Processor licenses required, i.e., to license a sub-capacity of total physical cores. It may not be incorporated into any contract and does not constitute a contract or a commitment to any specific terms. Policies and this document are subject to change without notice. This document may not be reproduced in any manner without the express written permission of Oracle Corporation.
If you have an uncapped ELA (ULA in Oracle Terms – Unlimited License Agreement) you can deploy the database software wherever you like the whole discussion about soft or hard partitioning, or the number of cores, is completely irrelevant. As an Oracle licensing specialist I feel I need to point out that there is a big difference in your OLSA, and the order forms that give you your rights to use which are defined at time of purchase license metrics.
Licensing is not an easy topic to address and this difficulty is not specific to Oracle. Additionally, this difficulty increases with the number of different software editors and the related software policy you have to manage as a License Manager, IT manager or CTO. 
[edit] What is a license. A license is the right to use (RTU) the software and not the software itself. If you have a license, you can obtain a copy of the software media through whatever means-download, use the CDs from your last project, etc. Please note that Oracle doesn't use software keys. You can just install the software and use it. It is up to you and your consciences to license the software before using it. Licenses are not tied to the product version. For example, an Enterprise Edition database license is equally valid for Oracle 9i, Oracle 10g, Oracle 11g or latest Oracle 12c. However, you are only entitled to new versions if you have a valid maintenance and support contract in place.
default pool (where all the LPARs sharing processors generally) - 11. processors. Oracle Pool (only assigned for ORACLE running LPARs due to licensing) - 5. processors. I want to know how many processors utilized by the Oracle LPARs running. (Uncapped Mode) in Oracle processor pool. Hope you can understand thi