Muscle weakness can progress to paralysis, loss of the ability to move the muscles. Paralysis symptoms can occur anywhere in the body. They may occur on both sides of the body (bilateral) or one side (unilateral). Paralysis occurring in the lower half of the body, below the midsection, is known as paraplegia. Quadriplegia is paralysis occurring in both the arms and the legs.
Paralysis is the inability of a muscle or group of muscles to move voluntarily. Muscles are controlled by messages sent from the brain that trigger movement. When part of the brain is damaged after a stroke, messaging between the brain and muscles may not work properly. Paralysis is usually on the side of the body opposite the side of the brain damaged by stroke, and may affect any part of the body. You may experience one-sided paralysis, known as hemiplegia, or one-sided weakness, known as hemiparesis
Paralysis. Paralysis or the inability of a muscle to move is one of the most common disabilities resulting from stroke. As many as 9 out of 10 stroke survivors have some degree of paralysis immediately following a stroke. When part of the brain is damaged after a stroke, messaging between the brain and muscles may not work properly. Paralysis is usually on the side of the body opposite the side of the brain damaged by stroke, and may affect any part of the body.
Paralysis is most often caused by damage in the nervous system, especially the spinal cord. Other major causes are stroke, trauma with nerve injury, poliomyelitis, cerebral palsy, peripheral neuropathy, Parkinson's disease, ALS, botulism, spina bifida, multiple sclerosis, and Guillain-Barre barré. syndrome Paralysis can occur in newborns due to a congenital defect known as Spina Bifida. Spina Bifida causes one or more of the vertebrae to fail to form vertebral arches within the infant, which allows the spinal cord to protrude from the rest of the spine.
Paralysis of the muscles of the face, arm, and leg on one side of the body is called hemiplegia (hemi means half) and usually results from damage to the opposite side of the brain. Damage to the nerves of the spinal cord affects different parts of the body, depending on the amount of damage and where it occurred. Aside from poliomyelitis (which can be prevented by vaccination) and brain and spinal cord injuries (which in some cases can be prevented by using appropriate safety measures), it is usually not possible to prevent the conditions that cause paralysis, and most of the time there is no specific treatment.
Paralysis is loss of muscle function for one or more muscles. Paralysis can be accompanied by a loss of feeling (sensory loss) in the affected area if there is sensory damage as well as motor. Paralysis can occur in newborns due to a congenital defect known as Spina Bifida. Spina Bifida causes one or more of the vertebrae to fail to form vertebral arches within the infant, which allows the spinal cord to protrude from the rest of the spine.
1 Hemiplegia is the paralysis of the arm and leg on one side of the body. 2  Paraplegia is the paralysis of both legs and some other areas of the lower body, such as the pelvis. 3  Tetraplegia or quadriplegia is the paralysis of both arms and legs. Pseudo paralysis. Pseudo paralysis is a term that refers to voluntary restriction of movement. It is not due to muscular paralysis and malfunction of the nerves responsible for movement but, rather, a choice to refrain from moving due to pain or incoordination.
By Yolanda Smith, BPharm. Paralysis is a condition involving a loss of muscle function in the body that may be accompanied by sensory loss, also referred to as loss of feeling. The term is derived from the Greek word that means disabling of the nerves. Pseudo paralysis. Pseudo paralysis is a term that refers to voluntary restriction of movement. It is not due to muscular paralysis and malfunction of the nerves responsible for movement but, rather, a choice to refrain from moving due to pain or incoordination.
Paralysis can occur if a part of the brain that controls specific muscles is damaged during a severe head injury. Damage to the left side of the brain can cause paralysis on the right side of the body, and damage to the right side of the brain can cause paralysis on the left side of the body. 
Introduction. Paralysis is loss of the ability to move one or more muscles. It may be associated with loss of feeling and other bodily functions. It is not usually caused by problems with the muscles themselves, but by problems with the nerves or spinal cord the brain uses to control muscles. A person with paralysis will usually have some form of nerve damage.