Lat: through the course of a year; annually. Anything (e.g., interest, wages, rent) which is calculated per annum is calculated on the basis of a year in time; sometimes a per annum rate will be fixed at 1/360th instead of 1/365th per day. Regards, Rick. rick c · 8 years ago. Thumbs up.
The per annum contribution to project was accounted for by the financial analyst in his estimation of the value of the project. Show more usage examples... You may get a bonus per annum that depends on how well your business did that year and what your bottom line was. 2 people found this helpful. There would be a small fee per annum, but that was nothing we could not handle and we were ready to buy.
For example, there is a 30 basis point difference between two bonds if one yields 10.3% and the other yields 10.6%. Case Study On May 9, 2001, WorldCom, Inc., issued $11.9 billion of bonds in what at the time was the largest corporate debt issue in U.S. history. An interest rate of 5% is 50 basis points higher than an interest rate of 4.5%. Sometimes referred to as BPS, BIPS, and pronounced Bips.
Per annum is Latin for each year.. If the interest is non-compounding, the same amount of interest will accrue each year. For example, if a borrower takes out a $100 loan at 5 percent interest per annum and takes five years to repay the loan, the interest due at the end of those five years will be $25. Related Reading: The Allowable Interest Rate on Promissory Notes. Comstock/Comstock/Getty Images. When a small business takes out a loan from a bank to fund its operations or to help finance an expansion, it must be aware of the details of the loan agreement. When a loan agreement states the interest rate per annum, this simply means the annual interest rate on the loan. On a company's balance financial statements, interest payable per annum would refer to the amount of money the company owes each year on a loan
Annum is the Latin word for year. Per annum means: By the year; annually; yearly. This term is mostly used in banking in reference to a sum of money paid or received. For example, $100 at5% interest per annum is $100 (1 + .05) = $105. Answer added by: Rehan Qureshi Chief Financial Officer (CFO) 1 year ago. Per annum means yearly or annually. For example, if a business charges its customers1.5% per month on any unpaid balance, the per annum rate is18%. The per annum rate was the result of1.5% X12 months in a year.
per annum, in which their client believed himself to be indebted to Mr Clennam. Little Dorrit by Dickens, Charles View in context. They scarcely ever taste meat; as, with the twelve pounds per annum, they have to clothe themselves, and support their families. 
1. per annum-by the year; every year (usually with reference to a sum of money paid or received); he earned $100,000 per annum; we issue six volumes per annum. p.a. , per year, annually, each year
Full Definition of PER ANNUM. : in or for each year. 