Source: 6-Gingerol is isolated from the rhizomes or roots of the plant Zingiber officinale (ginger). It is a perennial reed-like plant with annual leafy stems, about a meter (3 to 4 feet) tall. Ginger produces clusters of white and pink flower buds that bloom into yellow flowers. Traditionally, the root is gathered when the stalk withers; it is immediately dried, scalded, or washed and scraped, to kill it and prevent sprouting. 6-Gingerol is isolated from ginger root using ethanol and other organic solvents.
Gingerol, or sometimes [6]-gingerol, is the active constituent of fresh ginger. Chemically, gingerol is a relative of capsaicin and piperine, the compounds which give chilli peppers and black pepper their respective spicyness. [6]-Gingerol administered by intraperitoneal injection has been used to induce a hypothermic state in rats. Gingerol seems to be effective in an animal model of rheumatoid arthritis. Gingerol and its analogues have a favourable toxicity profile, but are cytotoxic towards a range of cancer cell lines including blood cancer and lung cancer
Gingerol from Ginger herb-Zingiber officinale Roscoe, Zingiberaceae, review of research Feb 25 2014. Gingerol is the active constituent of fresh ginger. Gingerol is a relative of capsaicin, the compound from chile peppers. It is normally found as a pungent yellow oil. Cooking ginger turns gingerol into zingerone, which is less pungent and has a spicy-sweet aroma. Health benefit of gingerol The oleoresin from rhizomes of ginger contains gingerol ... Health benefit of gingerol The oleoresin from rhizomes of ginger contains gingerol (1-[4'-hydroxy-3'-methoxyphenyl]-5-hydroxy-3-decanone) and its homologs which are pungent ingredients that have been found to possess many benefits, such as anti-inflammatory, liver protecting and cardiotonic effects.
Ginger (Zingiber officinale Roscoe) is a flowering plant in the family Zingiberaceae whose rhizome, ginger root or simply ginger, is widely used as a spice or a folk medicine. It is a herbaceous perennial which grows annual stems about a meter tall bearing narrow green leaves and yellow flowers. Ginger was exported to Europe via India in the first century AD as a result of the lucrative spice trade and was used extensively by the Romans. India is now the largest producer of ginger.
(http://www.scienceasia.org/). Gingerol is the principal flavor and odor constituent of ginger, structurally similar to vanilloid. It provides the hot sensation like farnesol, gingerone, eudesmol, eucalyptol, shogaol, zingiberene, zingiberol and capsaicin. Various chain length gingerol exist such as 6-gingerol, 8-gingerol and 10-gingerol. During cooking, gingerol is converted to zingerone. Gingerol is used as a flavor and in perfumery to be responsible for spicy aroma.
Cooking ginger transforms gingerol into zingerone, which is less pungent and has a spicy-sweet aroma. When ginger is dried, gingerol undergoes a dehydration reaction forming shogaols, which are about twice as pungent as gingerol. This explains why dried ginger is more pungent than fresh ginger. [6]-Gingerol administered by intraperitoneal injection has been used to induce a hypothermic state in rats. Gingerol seems to be effective in an animal model of rheumatoid arthritis. Gingerol and its analogues have a favourable toxicity profile, but are cytotoxic towards a range of cancer cell lines including blood cancer and lung canc
The substance called [6]-gingerol is the main active compound in ginger root and the one that gives ginger its distinctive flavor.. The researchers tested [6]-gingerol's powers by feeding a half milligram to 20 mice three times a week before and after injecting human colorectal tumor cells into their flanks. 
Noun. 1. gingerol-derived from ginger; source of the hotness of ginger. ginger-perennial plants having thick branching aromatic rhizomes and leafy reedlike stems. chemical irritant-a substance producing irritation. 1  Facebook. 