October 1, 2015 (TORONTO) – Postmedia Network Canada Corp. (“Postmedia” or “the Company”) will host a conference call on Thursday, October 22, 2015 at 3:30 p.m. Eastern Time to discuss its financial results for the quarter and year ended August 31, 2015. The Windsor Star has been the leading source of news and information for for Windsor & Essex County for more than 122 years. Fact is… The Windsor Star is Canada’s highest read metropolitan newspaper in print and on-line.
24 Hrs is a chain of free daily newspapers that launched in 2003. Postmedia publishes English editions in Toronto and Vancouver. 24 Hrs is published 5 days a week (Monday to Friday) in a 460 mm × 282 mm compact format that is smaller than a tabloid. The Windsor Star has been the leading source of news and information for for Windsor & Essex County for more than 122 years. Fact is… The Windsor Star is Canada’s highest read metropolitan newspaper in print and on-line.
Please try again later. An explanation of what Native Advertising is, what the benefits are, and how Postmedia Content Solutions can help advertisers increase engagement, awareness and influence using our Native Network. 1  People & Blogs. 2  Standard YouTube License. 
New Latin, from post- + media. This word doesn't usually appear in our free dictionary, but the definition from our premium Unabridged Dictionary is offered here on a limited basis. Note that some information is displayed differently in the Unabridged
October 13, 2015 (WINDSOR) — Postmedia today announced the launch of its latest reimagined brand, the Windsor Star, unveiling innovative design changes to its rebranded platforms – print, web, smartphone and tablet – as well as changes to its form and function. The Windsor Star has been the leading source of news and information for for Windsor & Essex County for more than 122 years. Fact is… The Windsor Star is Canada’s highest read metropolitan newspaper in print and on-line.
The following excerpt comes from the final chapter of my book Media, New Media, Postmedia, recently published in Italian by Postmediabooks, who kindly gave Rhizome permission to republish it in English. The postmedia condition. In the Fourth chapter of this book (The Boho Dance), I tried to develop an in-depth analysis of those events that, beginning in 1996, promoted New Media Art in the contemporary art arena.
The bulk of the deal involves Quebecor Media Inc. selling to Postmedia the Sun chain of papers in Calgary, Edmonton, Toronto, Ottawa and Winnipeg along with the London Free Press. Postmedia’s purchase surprised some observers given that the company has been besieged by financial woes. In August, 2012, the chain launched a three-year plan to cut $120-million in annual operating costs.
Godfrey secured financial backing from U.S. private-equity firm Golden Tree Asset Management as well as other investors. The group completed a $1.1 billion transaction to acquire the chain from Canwest on July 13, 2010. The company has over 3,200 employees. The company's shares were listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange in 2011. The company's strategy has seen its publications invest greater resources in digital news gathering and distribution, including expanded websites and digital news apps for smartphones and tablets. 
Postmedia Network Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Postmedia Network Canada Corp. (TSX:PNC.A, PNC.B), is the largest publisher by circulation of English-language daily newspapers in Canada, representing some of the country’s oldest and best known media brands. The Windsor Star has been the leading source of news and information for for Windsor & Essex County for more than 122 years. Fact is… The Windsor Star is Canada’s highest read metropolitan newspaper in print and on-line.