Nutrigenomics combines the study of nutrition and genetics to discover the different ways people respond to food based on their genetic make-up. While humans are very similar genetically, we all have slight differences in our genetic blueprints which set us apart from other people.
Nutrigenomics has been associated with the idea of personalized nutrition based on genotype. While there is hope that nutrigenomics will ultimately enable such personalised dietary advice, it is a science still in its infancy and its contribution to public health over the next decade is thought to be major.
Home / Articles / What is Nutrigenomics. Nutrigenomics is the study of the effects of foods and food constituents on gene expression. It is about how our DNA is transcribed into mRNAand then to proteins and provides a basis for understanding the biological activity of foodcomponents.
Nutrigenomics is the study of how foods affect the expression of genetic information in an individual and how individual differences affect the way we metabolize and respond to the nutrients and bioactive compounds in the foods we eat.
Nutrigenomics is a branch of nutritional genomics and is the study of the effects of foods and food constituents on gene expression. This means that nutrigenomics is research focusing on identifying and understanding molecular-level interaction between nutrients and other dietary bioactives with the genome.
Nutrigenomics has been associated with the idea of personalized nutrition based on genotype. While there is hope that nutrigenomics will ultimately enable such personalised dietary advice, it is a science still in its infancy and its contribution to public health over the next decade is thought to be major.
Nutrigenomics: The study of how different foods may interact with specific genes to increase the risk of common chronic diseases such as type 2 diabetes, obesity, heart disease, stroke and certain cancers.
Nutrigenomics is a new scientific discipline that uses modern genomics technology to study the relationship between genes, nutrition and health. It has long been apparent that some people respond differently from others to certain foods.
Nutrigenomics is a multidisciplinary science. Nutritional genomics, or nutrigenomics, is the study of how foods affect our genes and how individual genetic differences can affect the way we respond to nutrients (and other naturally occurring compounds) in the foods we eat.