Cured products contain sodium nitrite and/or sodium nitrate, which are used to cure and preserve meat. The amount of nitrates and nitrites you ingest when eating cured product … s is negligible and does not pose any health risk.   The idea to cure meat began with a need to keep meat from spoiling.
Uncured bacon is sometimes shoulder cut pork but also pork bellies that haven't been preserved with salt or sugar. Ham is pink and the meaty portion of bacon is red because of … added sodium nitrate and sodium nitrite.
The labeling of uncured vs. cured is a matter of whether the manufacturer is using synthetic compounds to cure or natural compounds to cure. But in today’s labeling of products, cured and uncured are the same thing. Sources and resources: http://wiki.answers.com/Q/What_is_uncured_meat.
Confidence votes 326. Cured products contain sodium nitrite and/or sodium nitrate, which are used to cure and preserve meat. The amount of nitrates and nitrites you ingest when eating cured products is negligible and does not pose any health risk. The idea to cure meat began with a need to keep meat from spoiling.
Using synthetic chemicals such as sodium nitrates and nitrites are what is causing the health issues such as gastrointestinal cancer. Natural nitrates occur in salt, celery powder, lactic acid and citric acid and have been used in the “uncured” meats, the name “uncured” is a misrepresentation of the process. Curing, at it’s very root, is the preservation of meat by the use of acid, salt, and sugar to remove water and prevent spoilage.
Uncured bacon is sometimes shoulder cut pork but also pork bellies that haven't been preserved with salt or sugar. Ham is pink and the meaty portion of bacon is red because of added sodium nitrate and sodium nitrite.
The USDA defines uncured to indicate products that have not been preserved by adding sodium nitrite, sodium nitrate or a salt cure. So when you see uncured on the label, the label is informing you that the product does not contain added sodium nitrate or sodium nitrite.