Lis pendens is Latin for suit pending.. This may refer to any pending lawsuit or to a specific situation with a public notice of litigation that has been recorded in the same location where the title of real property has been recorded.
Lis pendens refers to the notice issued to say that a lawsuit pertaining to a title of a real estate property was already filed in court. The term lis pendens is a Latin term which means “a suit pending”.
In US law, a lis pendens is a written notice that a lawsuit has been filed concerning real estate, involving either the title to the property or a claimed ownership interest in it. The notice is usually filed in the county land records office.
A lis pendens can also be filed when one feels they have legal claim to a property. For property buyers, a lis pendens could devalue the property, complicate the transfer of title, or make it impossible to obtain a mortgage on the property. A lis pendens is filed when a property goes under foreclosure.
Lis pendens is filed at the clerk of the court and then it has to be certified that the suit had been filed and listed under the Country Recorder. The lis pendens is essential since it informs the owner of the real estate property that there is another person or entity that is claiming the property.
The term “lis pendens” is Latin for “suit pending.” It is filed against a real property to indicate that the title of property is in question, or that some sort of lawsuit involving the property could occur in the near future.
Filed by a lender, a lis pendens is the formal notice that starts the foreclosure process. Even though this is considered a pending lawsuit, the homeowner still has possession and the right to sell or refinance the property.
A Lis Pendens is a type of written notice indicating that a lawsuit has been filed concerning a particular piece of real estate. Lis Pendens may be filed for lawsuits that involve “real estate claims,” such as a dispute over the title or enforcement of a lien.
A lis pendens is the formal notice that starts the foreclosure process. This may refer to any pending lawsuit or to a specific situation with a public notice of litigation that has been recorded in the same location where the title of real property has been recorded.