The Krebs cycle is the second of three stages of cellular respiration, in which glucose, fatty acids and certain amino acids, the so-called fuel molecules, are oxidized (see Figure). The oxidation of these molecules is primarily used to transform the energy contained in these molecules into ATP. Before the fuel molecules can be inserted in the Krebs Cycle, they must first all be converted into acetyl-CoA. Looking at the path of a nutrient, such as glucose, the oxidation of the molecule takes place in the glycolysis. The product of the glycolysis is pyruvate.
The Citric Acid Cycle, also known as the tricarboxylic acid cycle and the Krebs Cycle, begins after the two molecules of the three carbon sugar produced in glycolysis are converted to a slightly different compound (acetyl CoA). Glucose, a six carbon sugar, is split into two molecules of a three carbon sugar. Glycolysis takes place in the cell's cytoplasm. In the process, two molecules of ATP, two molecules of pyruvic acid and two high energy electron carrying molecules of NADH are produced.
Glycolysis literally means splitting sugars.. Glucose, a six carbon sugar, is split into two molecules of a three carbon sugar. Glycolysis takes place in the cell's cytoplasm. In the process, two molecules of ATP, two molecules of pyruvic acid and two high energy electron carrying molecules of NADH are produced.
The Krebs cycle begins when acetyl-CoA and oxaloacetate interact to form the six-carbon compound citric acid. (The Krebs cycle is also sometimes called the citric acid cycle .) This citric acid molecule then undergoes a series of eight chemical reactions that strip carbons to produce a new oxaloacetate molecule. 
The Krebs Cycle, also known as the Citric Acid Cycle, is an important series of biochemical reactions that are intrinsic to cellular respiration and the generation of energy from oxygen and glucose in aerobic organisms. Electron Transport Chain. The Krebs Cycle takes place within the mitochondria, structures that are contained in each of your body cells. Also within these mitochondria are a series of membranes that are very important in the generation of energy.
Finally, the electrons that are released in the Krebs Cycle and the transported to the respiratory chain were used there to produce ATP out of ADP and P i. Figure: Overview of the Krebs cycle. In addition to the supply of energy from the fuel molecules, the citric acid cycle has other important functions. Thus, some of the citric acid cycle are intermediates for other important reactions like the biosynthesis of glucose, fatty acids and amino acids. Before the fuel molecules can be inserted in the Krebs Cycle, they must first all be converted into acetyl-CoA. Looking at the path of a nutrient, such as glucose, the oxidation of the molecule takes place in the glycolysis. The product of the glycolysis is pyruvate.
Cellular respiration is important because it is energy that is  released from food molecules. Cellular respiration is also  important because oxygen is needed in order to br … eak down and  digest the food. The food gives humans the nutrients needed to stay  healthy. 1 person found this useful. ATP is a major form of energy in organisms. It is important, because organisms require it for life, and as it is made in cellular respiration, it is an important product, beca … use it is necessary for life. 1  The Five Major Parts of the Brain At its most basic, the brain controls the body
Cellular respiration is the process of oxidizing food molecules, like glucose, to carbon dioxide and water. C6H12O6 + 6O2 + 6H2O → 12H2O + 6 CO2. The energy released is trapped in the form of ATP for use by all the energy-consuming activities of the cell. 1  glycolysis, the breakdown of glucose to pyruvic acid. 
Steps of the Krebs Cycle. The Krebs cycle itself actually begins when acetyl-CoA combines with a four-carbon molecule called OAA (oxaloacetate) (see Figure above). This produces citric acid, which has six carbon atoms. This is why the Krebs cycle is also called the citric acid cycle. After citric acid forms, it goes through a series of reactions that release energy. The energy is captured in molecules of NADH, ATP, and FADH 2, another energy-carrying compound.