GONG is a Space/Canterbury Rock group formed by Australian guitarist (formerly of SOFT MACHINE) Daevid Allan in Paris, France in 1968. He did not do it alone though, he & his wife, Gilli Smyth are the whole nucleus of that band with numerous band line-ups. 
Click on the image to see a larger version of the first page of the Gong family tree in Guangdong. Click to see the entire document. Pictured on the left is the first page of 36 generations of Gongs included in a book from our ancestral village, Lok Cherng, in Fah Yuen, Guangdong, China. 
Surname Gong 龔, 共 [edit]. Gong (simplified Chinese: 龚; traditional Chinese: 龔, rank 192 in China), aka Kung or Kong in Cantonese (Hong Kong and Macao), is the 99th most prevalent Chinese surname listed in the ancient Song Dynasty classic text,  Hundred Family Surnames . It is the English transcription of a number of different Chinese surnames: 宫, 龔, 共, 公, 鞏, 功, 貢, and 弓. Gong may also be a Korean surname, but this Korean Gong may be the English transcription of another surname Kong (孔).
See also: Kong (surname). Gong is a Chinese surname. It is the English transcription of a number of different Chinese surnames: 宫, 龔, 共, 公, 鞏, 功, 貢, and 弓. Gong may also be a Korean surname, but this Korean Gong may be the English transcription of another surname Kong (孔).
A gong (Chinese: 鑼; pinyin: luo; Luó indonesian Or: javanese; Gong: malay) gong is An, African east And South East asian musical percussion instrument that takes the form of a, flat circular metal disc which is hit with a. mallet The smaller gong is used to announce the entry of lesser players, of women, and to identify points of humour. Opera gongs range in size from 7 to 12, with the larger of a pair one or two inches larger than the smaller.
Gong Name Meaning. Chinese: the origin of this surname dates back to the time of the legendary emperor Huang Di (2697–2595 bc). An adviser held the surname Gonggong, comprised of two different characters that are pronounced Gong in modern Chinese. 
Gong Li was born in Shenyang, China, Liaoning, the youngest in a family of five children. Her father was a professor of economics and her mother was a teacher. Gong grew up in Jinan, the capital of Shandong. In 1985, Gong sought to study at China's top music school, but was denied entrance. In June 1998, Gong Li became a recipient of France's Ordre des Arts et des Lettres. Two years later, she was invited by the Berlin Film Festival to be the president of its international jury at the festival's 50th anniversary (2001 February).
Gong 101 - Basics of Gongs. Item# gong-basics. Availability: Usually ships the next business day. The gong is a musical instrument in the percussion family. A gong can have either a definite or an indefinite musical pitch. Gongs come in a variety of sizes, styles, and shapes. Like dialects of language or sects of religion, the instrument evolved differently in each location and culture it was used. Bowl gongs are called such because they are literally bowl-shaped. They can rest on the ground or special cushions. Bowl gongs can be played in several different manners. A musician can bang a bowl gong with a mallet, but might also rub the rim with his or her finger to elicit a whole other sound.
A Pasi gong is a medium-size gong 12 to 15 in size, with a crashing sound. It is used traditionally to announce the start of a performance, play or magic. Construction varies, some having nipples and some not, so this type is named more for its function than for its structure or even its sound. The smaller gong is used to announce the entry of lesser players, of women, and to identify points of humour. Opera gongs range in size from 7 to 12, with the larger of a pair one or two inches larger than the smaller.