Turkey eggs usually take 21 to 28 days to hatch depending on what they are incubated in like an incubator or by a hen. It also depends on how fertile it is and how it is cared … for. It usually takes closer to 28 days. 
When you are trying to hatch Tennessee red quail eggs, it will take  approximately 23 days. You should perform lock down on the egg at  20 days. This is a period of time whe … n there should be no  disturbances because hatching is likely to begin. Turkey eggs usually take 21 to 28 days to hatch depending on what they are incubated in like an incubator or by a hen. It also depends on how fertile it is and how it is cared … for. It usually takes closer to 28 days
When at 102 degrees, eggs hatched early and some chicks were deformed. When (hatching quail eggs) , keep the temperature at 100 degrees (or as close as possible), and we believe you will be satisfied with all your hatches. Coturnix eggs takes 16 to 18 days to hatch. all else same as bobwhite. Place the eggs in incubator with the small end pointing down.Turn off auto turner for first 3 days if the incubator has one. Egg trays must turn at least 30 degrees each way, with a total of 60 degrees total movement. 
Hatching Quails. Quail eggs do not need to be incubated as long as other poultry, Japanese Quail need between 16-18 days of incubation. Japanese Quails rarely sit on their eggs, an instinct they have almost lost by intensive breeding. An incubator is required to hatch the eggs. 
Best Answer: Hi, It all depends on which species of quail you have. Chinese painted quail eggs take 16 days, Japanese quail take 18 days. Bob white can take 23 days. All must be incubated at 37.5C. Turned 3 times per day. 3 days before due to hatch, stop turning the eggs. Source(s): Poultry farm manager/quail breeder. 
Back to Top How long does it take button eggs to hatch? If the hen is nesting on the eggs herself, the normal incubation period is 16 days. But if the eggs are in an incubator, it can take 17 to 21 days, and even sometimes as long as 24 days. Back to Top My hen is nesting. 
I am often asked how long it takes quail eggs to hatch. The incubation period for bobwhite quail eggs is 23-24 days. Here is a link to information on incubating bobwhite quail eggs http://www.farmingfriends.com/incubating-bobwhite-quail-eggs/. The incubation period for Coturnix (Japanese) quail eggs is 17 days. Here is a link for information about incubating japanese quail eggs. http://www.farmingfriends.com/incubating-coturnix-japanese-quail/. Usually the hen will keep sitting if she thinks the other eggs are fertile and I have read that the hen can feel movement in the eggs so will keep sitting. Quail eggs take about 17 days to hatch and hen eggs take 21 days.
The incubation time needed for fertile eggs is shorter (14-17 days) compared to Bobwhite quail eggs (23 days). Coturnix may start laying eggs as early as 6 weeks of age compared to 16 weeks for the Bobwhite. HISTORY: Japanese quail have been widely distributed in Europe and Asia. Do not turn quail eggs after the 14th day of incubation. Japanese quail eggs will generally hatch on the 17th day of incubation, but hatch can take place as early as the 14th day and as late as the 19th day. This difference in quail incubation period is not yet scientifically understood. After every hatch, the incubator should be cleaned, disinfected and fumigated