Unrefined carbohydrates are rich in fiber, vitamins and minerals, which are necessary for the production of energy in the human body. Natural food fiber is responsible for maintaining healthy blood sugar levels, and it acts as a barrier to the digestive system by controlling appetite. This is because refined carbs contain a lot of sugar, which makes them easier for the body to absorb. Other than containing beneficial natural nutrients, unrefined carbohydrates are also known to be the best source of sustainable energy.
Quick definitions: 1  Refined-foods lose many nutrients during processing. 2  Enriched-products have had some nutrients added back. 3  Whole grain-products that are rich in fiber and all nutrients found in the original grain. Grains have three different key parts: 1  Bran-outer protective coating, which is rich in fiber and nutrients. 2  Germ-seed that grows into a wheat plant, so it’s especially rich in vitamins and minerals to support new life. 3  Endosperm-contains starch and proteins.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Refined grains, in contrast to whole grains, refers to grain products consisting of grains or grain flours that have been significantly modified from their natural composition. However, for some grains the removal of fiber coupled with fine grinding results in a slightly higher availability of grain energy for use by the body.
FYI, Grains. Gaining popularity in the food industry is the use of the phrase, “whole grain,” especially in certain products such as baked goods, tortillas and cereals. But more than just a catch-phrase, the term actually has some deep-seeded meaning. 
A refined grain, or its product, is made by processing a natural, whole grain so that some or most of the nutrients are lost. Almost all grain products have been refined in some way or another. White rice, cream of wheat, cookies, and bowls of snap-crackle-and-pop each morning are all examples of refined grain products. 
Refers to cereal products from which the bran layers and germ of the cereal have been removed, leaving only the endosperm. For the term refined cereals may also exist other definitions and meanings, the meaning and definition indicated above are indicative not be used for medical and legal or special purposes. 
Foods that have been processed in some way or changed are considered “refined.” Since one or more of their edible components is removed in the processing, these foods are technically no longer considered “natural.”. One reason this is troublesome is because nutrients are lost in the processing. For example, when an orange is processed into orange juice, the membrane and pulp are removed. Vitamins, minerals, and fiber are also removed when you do not eat a whole orange. Orange juice is also higher in calories since one cup of orange juice is equivalent to about four oranges. An additional issue with refining foods is that the food might be altered in such a way that causes health problems. For example, since refined grains are quickly broken down into simple sugars during digestion, they are promptly absorbed into your bloodstream.
Examples of food products that contain refined carbohydrates include packaged cereals, white bread, white rice, pasta, cakes, biscuits, sweets, candy, pastries, pies, white flour, beer, sweet white wine, sherry and many others. This is because refined carbs contain a lot of sugar, which makes them easier for the body to absorb. Other than containing beneficial natural nutrients, unrefined carbohydrates are also known to be the best source of sustainable energy.
Further refining includes mixing, bleaching, and brominating; additionally, thiamin, riboflavin, niacin, and iron are often added back in to nutritionally enrich the product. Because the added nutrients represent a fraction of the nutrients removed, refined grains are considered nutritionally inferior to whole grains. However, for some grains the removal of fiber coupled with fine grinding results in a slightly higher availability of grain energy for use by the body.
A whole grain is a cereal grain that contains the germ, endosperm, and bran, in contrast to refined grains, which retain only the endosperm. Contents. Wheat flour (as opposed to wholegrain wheat flour or whole-wheat flour) as the first ingredient is not a clear indicator of the product's wholegrain content.