1 White blood cells may be a sign of infection or kidney disease. 2  Casts. 3  Some types of kidney disease can cause plugs of material (called casts) to form in tiny tubes in the kidneys. 4  The casts then get flushed out in the urine. 5  Casts can be made of red or white blood cells, waxy or fatty substances, or protein. 1 When you do not drink fluids, your kidneys make urine with a small amount of water in it, which has a high specific gravity. 2  pH. 3  The pH is a measure of how acidic or alkaline (basic) the urine is. 4  A urine pH of 4 is strongly acidic, 7 is neutral (neither acidic nor alkaline), and 9 is strongly alkaline.
A dipstick urine protein and/or a protein to creatinine ratio on a random urine sample may be used as a screen for kidney involvement when someone is taking a medication that may potentially affect kidney function. ^ Back to top. The urine protein test tells the doctor that protein is present in the urine, but it does not indicate which types are present or the cause of the proteinuria.
When the kidneys spill albumin, it can mean serious kidney damage is present. This can lead to chronic kidney disease. An albumin urine test can be done on a sample of urine that is collected: 1  At a random time. 2  This is usually after the first time you urinate in the morning. 3  Over a 24-hour period. 4  Over a specific period of time, such as 4 hours or overnight. An albumin urine test can be done on a sample of urine that is collected: 1  At a random time. 2  Over a 24-hour period. 3
It is ordered widely and routinely to detect any abnormalities that require follow up. Often, substances such as protein or glucose will begin to appear in the urine before people are aware that they may have a problem. It is used to detect urinary tract infections (UTIs) and other disorders of the urinary tract. In those with acute or chronic conditions, such as kidney disease, the urinalysis may be ordered at intervals as a rapid method to help monitor organ function, status, and response to treatment. ^ Back to top. A urinalysis will most likely be performed when a person sees a health care provider complaining of symptoms of a UTI or other urinary system problem such as kidney disease. Some signs and symptoms may include: 1  Abdominal pain. 2  Back pain. 3  Painful or frequent urination. 4  Blood in the urine.
If there is a large amount of protein in the first sample and/or the protein persists in the second sample, then a 24-hour urine protein may be used as a follow-up test. The urine protein test tells the doctor that protein is present in the urine, but it does not indicate which types are present or the cause of the proteinuria.
A urine sample is a painless way for your doctor to evaluate your health and test for abnormalities. One thing your doctor may check for in your urine sample test (urinalysis) is specific gravity. A urine specific gravity test compares the density of urine to the density of water. This quick test can help determine how efficiently your kidneys are diluting your urine. 
1 Strenuous exercise, such as running a marathon, can also cause blood in the urine. 2  White blood cells may be a sign of infection or kidney disease. 3  Casts. 4  Some types of kidney disease can cause plugs of material (called casts) to form in tiny tubes in the kidneys. 1 When you do not drink fluids, your kidneys make urine with a small amount of water in it, which has a high specific gravity. 2  pH. 3  The pH is a measure of how acidic or alkaline (basic) the urine is. 4  A urine pH of 4 is strongly acidic, 7 is neutral (neither acidic nor alkaline), and 9 is strongly alkaline.
OBJECTIVE: To compare the information obtained by point of care (POC) or in-office urine drug testing (index test) to the information found when all drugs and analytes are tested by liquid chromatography tandem mass spectroscopy (LC/MS/MS) reference test in the same urine sample. Protocol for accuracy of point of care (POC) or in-office urine drug testing (immunoassay) in chronic pain patients: a prospective analysis of immunoassay and liquid chromatography tandem mass spectometry (LC/MS/MS). Manchikanti L(1), Malla Y, Wargo BW, Cash KA, Pampati V, Damron KS, McManus CD, Brandon DE.
A urine test checks different components of urine, a waste product made by the kidneys. A regular urine test may be done to help find the cause of symptoms. The test can give information about your health and problems you may have. The kidneys take out waste material, minerals, fluids, and other substances from the blood to be passed in the urine. Urine has hundreds of different body wastes. 1 When you do not drink fluids, your kidneys make urine with a small amount of water in it, which has a high specific gravity. 2  pH. 3  The pH is a measure of how acidic or alkaline (basic) the urine is. 4  A urine pH of 4 is strongly acidic, 7 is neutral (neither acidic nor alkaline), and 9 is strongly alkaline.