Metacarpal neck fractures are the most common type of metacarpal fracture. Such a fracture seen in the 5th (or rarely, the 4 th) metacarpal neck is called a boxer’s fracture.. Figure: A boxer's fracture, i.e., a fracture of the neck of the 5th metacarpal. (http://radiopaedia.org/cases/boxers-fracture-1). Metacarpal head fractures are rare and usually require surgical intervention.
The metacarpals are the main bones in your hands that connects your finger bones and you wrist bones. 3 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  Breakdown of OTC Acid Reflux Medications Acid reflux and heartburn occur when stomach acid flows up into the esophagus. It is the term for the bones that make up your knuckles. Known collectively as the metacarpus, the bones run from the base … of the wrist, where they articulate with the carpals (wrist bones), to the base of each finger, where they articulate with the phalanges (finger bones)
The thumb metacarpal fractures, which is the most common fracture type, are usually caused by an axial blow directed against the partially flexed metacarpal. (It is estimated to occur in 4% of hand fractures. 2. Definition/ Description. A metacarpal fracture is a break in one of the five metacarpal bones of either hand. Metacarpal fractures are categorized as being fractures of the head, neck, shaft, and base (from distal at the metacarpal phalangeal joint to proximal at the wrist).
A punching type injury is the most common cause of a metacarpal fracture. This may either occur with the hand striking another object or the hand falling from a height and, in effect, punching the floor or solid object. 
There are two common fractures of the metacarpals. 1  Boxer’s fracture – A fracture of the 5th metacarpal neck. 2  Bennett’s fracture – A fracture of the 1st metacarpal base, extending into the carpometacarpal joint. 1 Metacarpals – There are five metacarpals, each one related to a digit. 2  Phalanges (Most distal) – The bones of the fingers. 3  Each finger has three phalanges, except for the thumb, which has two.
Trauma to the hand is exceedingly common, not infrequently resulting in metacarpal and phalangeal fractures and dislocations. Most of these injuries can be managed nonoperatively with immobilization or controlled mobilization. Fractures of the metacarpals and phalanges constitute approximately 10% of all fractures. Metacarpal fractures account for 30-40% of all hand fractures. Fractures of the fifth metacarpal neck alone account for 10% of all fractures in the hand. The lifetime incidence of metacarpal fractures is approximately 2.5%.
There are two common fractures of the metacarpals. 1  Boxer’s fracture – A fracture of the 5th metacarpal neck. 2  It is usually caused by a clenched fist striking a hard object. 3  The distal part of the fracture is displaced posteriorly, producing shortening of the affected finger. 1 Metacarpals – There are five metacarpals, each one related to a digit. 2  Phalanges (Most distal) – The bones of the fingers. 3  Each finger has three phalanges, except for the thumb, which has two.
In human anatomy, the metacarpal bones or metacarpus, form the intermediate part of the skeletal hand located between the phalanges of the fingers and the carpal bones of the wrist which forms the connection to the forearm. The metacarpal bones are equivalent to the metatarsal bones in the foot. The base or carpal extremity (basis) is of a cuboidal form, and broader behind than in front: it articulates with the carpal bones, and with the adjoining metacarpal bones; its dorsal and volar surfaces are rough, for the attachment of ligaments.
Ten percent of all fractures that occur are those to the metacarpals and phalanges, the most common injuries being from car accidents, sports injuries, and work-related injuries. The goal in repairing these injuries is to do so while maintaining strength of hand grip and no residual pain upon using the hand. Metacarpals. The metacarpals are long bones within the hand that are connected to the carpals, or wrist bones, and to the phalanges, or finger bones. The metacarpals together are referred to as the metacarpus .. The tops of the metacarpals form the knuckles where they join to the wrist