how to unlock a locked iphone if you forgot your iphone or ipod touch or ipad password or passcode free access navigate into your phone, contacts and photo, it is a kind of glitch or hack. steps: (but see the video!). 1) press emergency. 
After you turn your iPhone back on the Activation Lock should be deleted and now your iPhone is not locked to Apple ID. Other methods to remove Apple ID is by calling the person or third-party company that you purchased the iPhone from and ask them to go to their iCloud account and remove the iPhone from their Apple ID. How to Disable iOS 7 Activation Lock. There is a bug in iOS 7 that will allow anyone to disable Find My iPhone and bypass Activation Lock without a password. This video from YouTube shows you iPhone iCloud bypass with step by step instructions on how to turn off Find My iPhone:
From that point on, your password will be required before anyone can turn off Find My iPhone on your device, erase your device, or reactivate and use your device. Activation Lock is enabled automatically when you use Find My iPhone on a device using iOS 7 or later. To turn on Find My iPhone on your device: 1  Tap Settings. 2  Tap iCloud. 3  Sign in with your Apple ID, if necessary. 4  Turn on Find My iPhone. 
Top 2. If you have synced iPhone with iTunes, iPhone is locked forgot password will not be your anxiety since resetting the password seems to be easier. 1  1. Connect iPhone to computer which has the iTunes you normally sync iPhone with. 2  2. 3  Run iTunes if it doesn't open itself. Note :Ensure you have the latest iTunes on your computer. 1  1. Open iTunes and connect iPhone to computer with a USB cable. 2  2. Disconnect the USB cable from iPhone, but leave the other end of the cable connected to your computer's USB port. 3  3. Turn off your iPhone. 4  4. Keep press the Home button and reconnect the USB cable to iPhone at the same time.
1 1. Open iTunes and connect iPhone to computer with a USB cable. 2  You may get an error message saying iTunes could not connect to your iPhone because it is locked with a passcord. 3  2. Disconnect the USB cable from iPhone, but leave the other end of the cable connected to your computer's USB port. 4  3. Turn off your iPhone. Note :Ensure you have the latest iTunes on your computer. 1  1. Open iTunes and connect iPhone to computer with a USB cable. 2  2. Disconnect the USB cable from iPhone, but leave the other end of the cable connected to your computer's USB port. 3  3. Turn off your iPhone. 4  4. Keep press the Home button and reconnect the USB cable to iPhone at the same time.
Activate your unlock. Once you receive confirmation that your iPhone has been unlocked, you will need to activate it before the unlock takes effect. 1  Insert the SIM card from the new carrier. 2  If you get a signal at this step then you are done. 1 Activate the iPhone. 2  If you get asked to activate your iPhone, you can do this one of two ways: 3  Directly from the iPhone over a Wi-Fi connection. 4  By plugging in your iPhone to a computer and activating through iTunes.