Oatmeal, brown rice, quinoa, potatoes, beans, peas and lentils are examples of complex carbs. Simple carbs are often softer in texture – white bread, white rice and baked goods. Soda, candy and other sweeteners like table sugar and honey are also simple carbs. Remember, fruits and vegetables are simple carbohydrates that contain fiber, protein, vitamins and minerals, so they are more complex in nature. These are nutrient-dense foods that should be eaten daily.
Since complex carbohydrates come from plant-based foods, we know that those foods also contain a plethora of beneficial nutrients in addition to their carbs, including vitamins, minerals and antioxidants. The complex carbs are broken down into simple sugars. Again, sucrose is just table sugar, and it occurs naturally in several fruits, grains and vegetables. Lactose is also a natural sugar, and it can be found in milk and other dairy products. Maltose forms naturally when starches break down from complex carbohydrates into simple sugars.
Many carbohydrates also supply fiber. Fiber is a type of complex carbohydrate found in foods that come from plants—fruits, vegetables, nuts, seeds, beans, and whole grains. Eating food with fiber can prevent stomach or intestinal problems, such as constipation. It might also help lower cholesterol and blood sugar.
Complex carbohydrates, often referred to as starchy foods, include: 1  Legumes, such as beans, peas, lentils and peanuts. 2  Starchy vegetables, such as potatoes, corn, green peas, and parsnips. 3  Whole-grain breads and cereals. 
Carbohydrates or ‘carbs’ are an energy source in food that comes from starch, sugar and cellulose. Carbohydrates provide vitamins, minerals, antioxidants and fiber in the diet. The current recommendations suggest 45 to 65 percent of daily calories come from these types of foods. Remember, fruits and vegetables are simple carbohydrates that contain fiber, protein, vitamins and minerals, so they are more complex in nature. These are nutrient-dense foods that should be eaten daily.
Fruits and vegetables contain vitamins, minerals, high levels of starches and other complex carbs, and may also contain fat and protein. Some fruits and vegetables high in complex carbs include: 1  Potatoes. 2  Beans. 3  Carrots. 4  Okra. 5  Zucchini. 6  Cucumbers. 7  Radishes. 8  Asparagus. 
Carbohydrates provide your body with glucose it needs to function properly. Two types of carbohydrates exist: complex carbohydrates and simple carbohydrates. Complex carbohydrates take time to break down into glucose. Foods rich in complex carbohydrates and fiber are called good carbohydrates. Simple carbohydrates include sugars found in foods such as fruits and milk products and sugars added during food processing. Foods rich in white flour and added sugars are called bad carbohydrates.
Complex carbohydrates are commonly found in whole plant foods and, therefore, are also often high in vitamins and minerals. These whole plant foods are great sources of complex carbohydrates: 1  Green vegetables. 2  Whole grains and foods made from them, such as oatmeal, pasta, and whole-grain breads. 3  Starchy vegetables such as potatoes, sweet potatoes, corn, and pumpkin. 4  Beans, lentils, and peas. 
There are two types of carbohydrates: simple and complex. 1  Simple carbohydrates are found in fruits, vegetables, and milk products, as well as in sweeteners like sugar, honey, and syrup and foods like candy, soft drinks, and frosting or icing. Fiber is a type of complex carbohydrate found in foods that come from plants—fruits, vegetables, nuts, seeds, beans, and whole grains. Eating food with fiber can prevent stomach or intestinal problems, such as constipation. It might also help lower cholesterol and blood sugar.