Mostly, the name was restricted to the four bright stars in the constellation – Alpha, Beta, Gamma and Delta Delphini. MAJOR STARS IN DELPHINUS. α Delphini (Alpha Delphini). Alpha Delphini is the brightest star in the constellation. LOCATION, FACTS & MAP. Delphinus is the 69th constellation in size, occupying an area of 189 square degrees. It lies in the fourth quadrant of the northern hemisphere (NQ4) and can be seen at latitudes between +90° and -70°. The neighboring constellations are Aquarius, Aquila, Equuleus, Pegasus, Sagitta, and Vulpecula.
This is the list of notable stars in the constellation Delphinus, sorted by decreasing brightness. 
The constellation of Delphinus has 5 main stars that are visible; Alpha Delphini(Sualocin), Beta Delphini(Roaney), Gamma Delohini, Delta Delphini, and Epsilon Delphini(Deneb Dulfim). Stars in Delphinus. Delphinus found her and convinced her to wed Poseidon. Full of gratitude Poseidon placed an image of a dolphin in the stars to honor Delphinus. Besides the 5 main stars there are other things that are in the constellation: Star Cluster: NGC 6934. 1  Type: globular.
Constellation Delphinus Astrology. Constellation Delphinus the Dolphin, is a northern constellation sitting above Sagittarius constellation, between Aquila and Pegasus. Delphinius spans 6 degrees of the Zodiac in the Sign of Aquarius, and and contains 3 named fixed stars. 2 thoughts on “ Delphinus Constellation Stars ”. The star names Rotanev and Sualocin are not ancient. Italian astronomer Niccolo Niccolò cacciatore named. Them he spelled his’name S latinized, Form Nicolaus, venator backwards and put the two new star names To palermo star catalogue in the 19th. century
Stars. Delphinus does not have any bright stars; its brightest star is of magnitude 3.6. The main asterism in Delphinus is Job’s Coffin, formed from the four brightest stars: Alpha, Beta, Gamma, and Delta Delphini. Alpha and Beta Delphini are named Sualocin and Rotanev, respectively. However, Delphinus is in a rich Milky Way star field. Alpha Delphini, called Sualocin, is a blue-white hued main sequence star of magnitude 3.8, 241 light-years from Earth. Beta Delphini, called Rotanev, is a close binary star and the brightest in Delphinus, divisible in only large amateur telescopes. To the unaided eye, it appears to be a white star of magnitude 3.6
Its name means “the dolphin” in Latin. The constellation represents the dolphin sent by the sea god Poseidon to find Amphitrite, the nereid he wanted to marry. Delphinus constellation was first catalogued by the Greek astronomer Ptolemy in the 2nd century. LOCATION, FACTS & MAP. Delphinus is the 69th constellation in size, occupying an area of 189 square degrees. It lies in the fourth quadrant of the northern hemisphere (NQ4) and can be seen at latitudes between +90° and -70°. The neighboring constellations are Aquarius, Aquila, Equuleus, Pegasus, Sagitta, and Vulpecula. Delphinus Constellation Map, by IAU and Sky&Telescope magazine. Delphinus has five stars with known planets and contains no Messier objects. The brightest star in the constellation is Rotanev, Beta Delphini
Delphinus. Delphinus or the Dolphin is a small constellation in the northern hemisphere. It was created by the Greek astronomer Ptolemy in the 2nd century. In Greek mythology, Delphinus is identified with the dolphin that helped the god Poseidon win over Amphitrite, a Nereid who had been fleeing from his advances. The dolphin was able to change her mind and, out of gratitude, Poseidon placed its image in the sky.
Delphinus, the dolphin, is a small constellation of the family of the Heavenly Waters lying north, but close to the celestial equator. The four main stars form an asterism known as Job's Coffin. 
The word Delphinus is the Greek word for dolphin, the constellation was named by the second century astronomer Ptolemy. In Greek mythology it is said that the Greek god Poseidon (the Greek god of the sea) wanted to marry Amphitrite a nereid (sea nymph). Delphinus found her and convinced her to wed Poseidon. Full of gratitude Poseidon placed an image of a dolphin in the stars to honor Delphinus. Besides the 5 main stars there are other things that are in the constellation: Star Cluster: NGC 6934. 1  Type: globular.