In cell biology, the nucleus (pl. nuclei; from Latin nucleus or nuculeus, meaning kernel) is a membrane-enclosed organelle found in eukaryotic cells. Eukaryotes usually have a single nucleus, but a few cell types have no nuclei, and a few others have many. The nucleolus is a discrete densely stained structure found in the nucleus. It is not surrounded by a membrane, and is sometimes called a suborganelle. It forms around tandem repeats of rDNA, DNA coding for ribosomal RNA (rRNA). These regions are called nucleolar organizer regions (NOR).
Best Answer: DNA and RNA are located in the nucleus(center) of the cell. DNA is found in the nucleus, and mitochondria and chloroplasts, cytoplasm too, but not very frequently.... RNA is found pretty much everywhere-nucleus, nucleolus, mitochondria, chloroplasts, ribosomes, cytoplasm... hrm_i_am_focking_bored · 9 years ago.
DNA Structure. ­DNA is o­ne of the nucleic acids, information-containing molecules in the cell (ribonucleic acid, or RNA, is the other nucleic acid). DNA is found in the nucleus of every human cell. (See the sidebar at the bottom of the page for more about RNA and different types of cells). The information in DNA: 1  guides the cell (along with RNA) in making new proteins that determine all of our biological traits.
Human Cells. Nucleus. DNA can be found inside the nucleus of every cell, apart from red blood cells. It's tightly wound and spread throughout the 46 chromosomes. One set of 23 chromosomes is inherited from each parent. Inside the chromosomes the DNA exists as genes.
Nucleus-The nucleus is the control center of the cell. It is the largest organelle in the cell and it contains the DNA of the cell. DNA (Deoxyribonucleic Acid) contains all the information for cells to live, perform their functions and reproduce. This layer is called the capsule and is found in bacteria cells. In our body there are many different kinds of cells. We are made up of about 200 different types of cells. Our body also has non-living materials such as hair, finger nails, and the hard part of the bone and teeth.
It carries this information from DNA, which is housed inside the cell nucleus, to the ribosomes. These can be found in the cytoplasm and are the 'factories' which make the proteins. Inside the nucleus RNA transcribes the genetic information by producing a complimentary nucleic acid strand-a copy of a DNA sequence. When it reaches the ribosomes the information is translated to produce a protein.
Deoxyribonucleic acid (/diˌɒksiˌraɪbɵ.njuːˌkleɪ.ɨk ˈaesɪd/ ; ˈæSɪD) dna is a molecule that carries most of the genetic instructions used in the, development functioning and reproduction of all known living organisms and many. viruses 
Each chromosome in the nucleus of a cell contains a very long molecule of DNA. If you stretched out the DNA found in one of your cells, it would be 2-3 meters long. To fit all of this DNA inside a tiny cell nucleus, the DNA is wrapped tightly around proteins. The nucleus is also surrounded by a membrane. To extract DNA from human cells, you will need to break open the cell membranes and nuclear membranes and separate the DNA from the other types of biological molecules in human cells.
1 DNA 1 2 I. Extracting DNA from Your Cells Each cell in your body has a nucleus with multiple chromosomes. Each chromosome contains a DNA molecule. Each cell is surrounded by a cell membrane that regulates what gets into and out of the cell. The nucleus is also surrounded by a membrane. To extract DNA from human cells, you will need to break open the cell membranes and nuclear membranes and separate the DNA from the other types of biological molecules in human cells.
DNA is a double helix formed by base pairs attached to a sugar-phosphate backbone. DNA, or deoxyribonucleic acid, is the hereditary material in humans and almost all other organisms. Nearly every cell in a person’s body has the same DNA. Most DNA is located in the cell nucleus (where it is called nuclear DNA), but a small amount of DNA can also be found in the mitochondria (where it is called mitochondrial DNA or mtDNA). The information in DNA is stored as a code made up of four chemical bases: adenine (A), guanine (G), cytosine (C), and thymine (T). 