Definition of HEMIHYDRATE. : a hydrate (as plaster of paris) containing half a mole of water to one mole of the compound forming the hydrate. — hemi·hy·drat·ed \-ˌdrā-təd\ adjective. ADVERTISEMENT. 
Calcium sulfate (or calcium sulphate) is a common laboratory and industrial chemical. In the form of γ- anhydrite (the nearly anhydrous form), it is used as a desiccant. It is also used as a coagulant in products like tofu. In the natural state, unrefined calcium sulfate is a translucent, crystalline white rock. The anhydrous form occurs naturally as β-anhydrite. Depending on the method of calcination of calcium sulfate dihydrate, specific hemihydrates are sometimes distinguished: alpha-hemihydrate and beta-hemihydrate.
The hemihydrate (CaSO 4 ·~0.5H 2 O or (CaSO 4) 2 ·H 2 O) is better known as plaster of Paris, while the dihydrate (CaSO 4 ·2H 2 O) occurs naturally as gypsum. The anhydrous form occurs naturally as β-anhydrite. Depending on the method of calcination of calcium sulfate dihydrate, specific hemihydrates are sometimes distinguished: alpha-hemihydrate and beta-hemihydrate.
, wherein the removing the water comprises feeding the alpha-hemihydrate gypsum onto a suction belt comprising a vacuum suction unit disposed below the suction belt, wherein the suction belt is effective to remove the water from the alpha-hemihydrate gypsum. 16. The steam and pressure is effective to convert the dihydrate gypsum to alpha-hemihydrate gypsum. The converted slurry containing the alpha-hemihydrate gypsum can be continuously removed from the heating tube 150 and fed into a steam condenser 160.
Levofloxacin hemihydrate is an antibiotic medication used to treat people in the event of bacterial infections. It is part of the larger antibiotic family known as the quinolones, and like its chemical relatives, this medication is considered effective at treating many different types of infection. Levofloxacin hemihydrate is known to interact with several other drugs, including blood thinners. Pregnant women cannot take levofloxacin hemihydrate as it has the potential to damage unborn children.
MHRA: PAR – Co-codamol 30mg/500mg Tablets (codeine phosphate hemihydrate / paracetamol) PL 22871/0001 5 INTRODUCTION The UK granted a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Co-codamol 30mg/500mg Tablets (PL 22871/0001) to koGEN Limited on 17 October 2006. MHRA: PAR – Co-codamol 30mg/500mg Tablets (codeine phosphate hemihydrate / paracetamol) PL 22871/0001 19 7. MARKETING AUTHORISATION HOLDER koGEN Limited Seagoe Industrial Estate Craigavon BT63 5UA UK. 8. MARKETING AUTHORISATION NUMBER PL 22871/0001.
hemihydrate, n a chemical compound in which the number of water molecules is half that of the other portion of the compound. In dentistry, hemihydrates are used in the manufacture of crowns, inlays, bridges, and dental molds. A chemical compound with one molecule of water for every two molecules of the other substance. In dentistry, calcium sulfate hemihydrate is mixed with water to produce a hardened plaster or stone (calcium sulfate dihydrate), which, in turn, is commonly used to produce dental models.
In chemistry, a hydrate is a substance that contains water or its constituent elements. The chemical state of the water varies widely between different classes of hydrates, some of which were so labeled before their chemical structure was understood. For example, ethanol, CH 3 –CH 2 –OH, is the product of the hydration reaction of ethene, CH 2 =CH 2, formed by the addition of H to one C and OH to the other C, and so can be considered as the hydrate of ethene. A molecule of water may be eliminated, for example by the action of sulfuric acid.
Definition. Any hydrate having only half a molecule of water for every molecule of compound. The most common hemihydrate is partially hydrated gypsum, or plaster of Paris. Print | Cite This Source | Link to This Page.