Visit the nearest U.S. embassy or consulate if you have lost your passport and don't just need the number. The sooner you report a lost passport, the better. If you are still in the U.S. or have the means of calling a U.S. number, call 1-877-487-2778 to report the loss. Step 2. Read your passport number off forms you've filled out that you have on your person, such as arrival forms to enter the country you're visiting or a copy of the receipt from your hotel check in.
Passports are imprinted with several security features to ensure each is properly registered to the owner. The passport number printed on the first page is the most basic of these security features. In the United States, the number is linked in a U.S. Department of State database to the name of the individual to whom the passport was issued. If you have your passport, locating the number is simple. Write down the passport number, which is the nine-digit number located in the upper right corner of the page. The number is printed in black below the label Passport No./No. Du Passeport..
The foreign passport document number is required for a foreign passport. Enter the document number exactly as it appears on the foreign passport. The location of the document number may vary depending on the country that issued the passport. The document number must be between six and 12 characters. 
A passport is a travel document, usually issued by a country 's government, that certifies the identity and nationality of its holder for the purpose of international travel. Standard passports contain the holder's name, place and date of birth, photograph, signature, and other identifying information. 1 The U.S. Passport card is an alternative to an ordinary U.S. passport booklet for land and sea travel within North America (Canada, Mexico, the Caribbean, and Bermuda). 2  Like the passport book, the passport card is issued only to U.S. citizens and non-citizen nationals.
A passport is a document certifying identity and nationality; having the document does not of itself grant any rights, such as protection by the consulate of the issuing country, although it may indicate that the holder has such rights. 1 The U.S. Passport card is an alternative to an ordinary U.S. passport booklet for land and sea travel within North America (Canada, Mexico, the Caribbean, and Bermuda). 2  Like the passport book, the passport card is issued only to U.S. citizens and non-citizen nationals.
Confidence votes 1.4K. When applying for a US passport renewal, the online form (DS-82) asks you for your Passport Book Number but does not define what this is, exactly. After finding nothing definitive online, I contacted the National Passport Information Center and asked them. (They have a toll free number. It is 1-877-487-2778. 
Save. Passports issued in the United States expire 10 years after they are issued. Consider what would happen if you lost your passport or it was stolen from you, especially in a foreign country. Your passport number is just one key piece of information for you to h
and Passport Cards to. and nationals. The. Card is a wallet-size card that can be used only for land and sea travel between the United States and Canada, Mexico, the Caribbean and Bermuda. Enter the U.S. Passport or Passport Card number exactly as it appears on the document. The number must be between six and nine alphanumeric characters (letters and numbers). You may not enter any special characters. 
Among other information, the U.S. passport card contains your nine-digit U.S. passport number. Step 2. Read your passport number off forms you've filled out that you have on your person, such as arrival forms to enter the country you're visiting or a copy of the receipt from your hotel check in.