Muscle tissue is a soft tissue that composes muscles in animal bodies, and gives rise to muscles' ability to contract. This is opposed to other components or tissues in muscle such as tendons or perimysium. It is formed during embryonic development through a process known as myogenesis. Thus, muscle tissue can be described as being one of three different types: 1  Skeletal muscle, striated in structure and under voluntary control, is anchored by tendons (or by aponeuroses at a few places) to bone and is used to effect skeletal movement such as locomotion and to maintain posture.
Cardiac muscle occurs only in the heart, and consists of small cells that are striated and under involuntary control. Smooth muscle is found in the walls of hollow organs, and consists of small elongated cells that are not striated and are under involuntary control. Special Characteristics of Muscle Tissue. Excitability, or irritability, is the ability to receive and respond to a stimulus. 
2. Smooth muscle is found in the walls of hollow organs throughout the body. Smooth muscle contractions are involuntary movements triggered by impulses that travel through the autonomic nervous system to the smooth muscle tissue. Each type of muscle tissue in the human body has a unique structure and a specific role. Skeletal muscle moves bones and other structures. Cardiac muscle contracts the heart to pump blood. The smooth muscle tissue that forms organs like the stomach and bladder changes shape to facilitate bodily functions.
1 Cardiac muscle occurs only in the heart, and consists of small cells that are striated and under involuntary control. 2  Smooth muscle is found in the walls of hollow organs, and consists of small elongated cells that are not striated and are under involuntary control. Types of Muscle Tissue. 1  Skeletal muscle is associated with the bony skeleton, and consists of large cells that bear striations and are controlled voluntarily. 2 
Report Abuse. Smooth muscle tissue is a tissue type. This type is usually found in the walls of the hollow viscera. Found in distending and contractile organs such as the bladder and the stomach. This tissue is involuntary. sterlingtears · 8 years ago. Thumbs up. 0. Thumbs down. Best Answer: Smooth muscle tissue is located in the walls of organs, the bladder, abdominal cavity, uterus, gastrointestinal tract, respiratory tract, vasculature, skin, ciliary muscle, and the iris of the eye. Its purpose is to keep organ structure against other forces. It is elastic and easily stretched.
1 Smooth muscle or involuntary muscle is found within the walls of organs and structures such as the esophagus, stomach, intestines, bronchi, uterus, urethra, bladder, blood vessels, and the arrector pili in the skin (in which it controls erection of body hair). Muscle is a soft tissue found in most animals. Muscle cells contain protein filaments of actin and myosin that slide past one another, producing a contraction that changes both the length and the shape of the cell.
Muscle tissue varies with function and location in the body. In mammals the three types are: skeletal or striated muscle; smooth or non-striated muscle; and cardiac muscle, which is sometimes known as semi-striated. Smooth and cardiac muscle contracts involuntarily, without conscious intervention. Thus, muscle tissue can be described as being one of three different types: 1  Skeletal muscle, striated in structure and under voluntary control, is anchored by tendons (or by aponeuroses at a few places) to bone and is used to effect skeletal movement such as locomotion and to maintain posture.
1 Found in walls of hollow organs (except the heart). 2  When longitudinal layer contracts, the organ dilates & contracts. 3  When the circular layer contracts, the organ elongates. 4  Peristalsis-alternating contractions and relaxations of smooth muscles that mix and squeeze substances through the lumen of hollow organs. Types of Muscle Tissue. 1  Skeletal muscle is associated with the bony skeleton, and consists of large cells that bear striations and are controlled voluntarily. 2  Cardiac muscle occurs only in the heart, and consists of small cells that are striated and under involuntary control.
Smooth muscle: Found in the walls of hollow organs. Cardiac muscle: Exists only in your heart. Three types of muscle. You've got around 650 muscles in your body, and they make up roughly half of your bodyweight. These muscles can be divided into three different groups: skeletal, smooth and cardiac. Skeletal muscle generates heat as a by-product of muscle activity. This heat is vital for maintaining your normal body temperature. Smooth Muscle. Smooth muscle is found in the walls of hollow organs like your intestines and stomach. They work automatically without you being aware of them. Smooth muscles are involved in many 'housekeeping' functions of the body. The muscular walls of your intestines contract to push food through your body