Light and other types of electromagnetic radiation are transverse waves. All types of electromagnetic waves travel at the same speed through a vacuum, such as through space. Water waves and S waves (a type of seismic wave) are also transverse waves. Your web browser does not have JavaScript switched on at the moment. For information on how to enable JavaScript please go to the Webwise site. You will not be able to see this content until you have JavaScript switched on.
~ Both transverse and longitudinal waves are spread with vibrations. Transverse waves vibrate in a perpendicular direction, while longitudinal waves vibrate in a parallel direction to the direction of the wave.
Transverse waves. Light and other types of electromagnetic radiation are transverse waves. Water waves and S waves (a type of seismic wave) are also transverse waves. In transverse waves, the vibrations are at right angles to the direction of travel. Your web browser does not have JavaScript switched on at the moment.
Transverse Wave s. A transverse wave is a wave in which the motion of the medium is a right angles to the direction of the wave. A wave on a rope is a transverse wave. Light and other electromagnetic waves are also transverse waves.
Mechanical Waves are waves which propagate through a material medium (solid, liquid, or gas) at a wave speed which depends on the elastic and inertial properties of that medium. There are two basic types of wave motion for mechanical waves: longitudinal waves and transverse waves. The animations below demonstrate both types of wave and illustrate the difference between the motion of the wave and the motion of the particles in the medium through which the wave is travelling.
Purpose of Exhibition. There are two types of waves, transverse and longitudinal waves. By observing the device attached to the Exhibition room ceiling that generates transverse and longitudinal 10-meters-long waves, we can understand the difference in properties between the two types of waves.