Every banana smoothie has just one ingredient in common – the fruit – so there’s plenty of room for variation. That means it’s hard to predict how many calories are in your drink. However, if you know the other ingredients and how big of a serving you’re having, that’s enough information to make an educated estimate. By adding sugar, however, the calorie count of a drink can raise quickly. One tablespoon of granulated sugar has about 45 calories, and some prepared smoothies have almost 8 tablespoons of added sugar.
Consuming a 20 ounce Blueberry Heaven Smoothie King means taking in 325 calories. A typical serving of a Jamba juice peanut Butter Moo’d smoothie which contains peanuts, soy milk, ice, bananas and non-fat yogurt offers as many as 770 calories. McDonald’s also offers different flavors of fruit smoothies. A small 12 oz cup of McDonald’s Wild Berry Smoothie contains around 210
Smoothies can be a healthy breakfast or snack food. Depending on the ingredients, they can also be high in calories. You can make a basic banana smoothie with yogurt, milk and banana, or add other ingredients to increase the nutrient content and vary the flavor. Choose low-fat versions of dairy products to limit the saturated fat and calories in your smoothie.
This portion of smoothie is low in fat, containing no more than 1 gram of fat, although this can vary depending on how your smoothie is made. The ingredients also influence the number of carbohydrates and protein. A 12-ounce serving of smoothie can provide 2 to 44 grams of carbohydrates and 2 to 16 grams of protein. A 12-ounce serving of strawberry banana smoothie contains 188 to 210 calories, putting it into the range of an ideal snack.
A very small banana has just 70 calories, and a very big banana has about 135. By adding sugar, however, the calorie count of a drink can raise quickly. One tablespoon of granulated sugar has about 45 calories, and some prepared smoothies have almost 8 tablespoons of added sugar.
At one national drink chain, a high-protein banana smoothie has about 315 calories in a 20-ounce serving, which is equivalent to 2 1/2 cups. But, you could make a smoothie of the same size at home with one medium banana, 6 ounces of nonfat, plain Greek yogurt, cold water and crushed ice for just 205 calories. By adding sugar, however, the calorie count of a drink can raise quickly. One tablespoon of granulated sugar has about 45 calories, and some prepared smoothies have almost 8 tablespoons of added sugar.
Made with ingredients so classic, these blended-to-order masterpieces practically invented smoothies. All of your favorites are in the mix: real whole fruit, 100% fruit juice, sherbet, and frozen yogurt. And now, you can Make It Light ™ ! *Make-It-Light smoothies contain 33-43% fewer calories, 35-50% fewer sugars, and 33-45% fewer carbohydrates than our regular Classic smoothies of the same name. 
HerleneThomas 1 year. My morning smoothie is 100 calories...1/2 banana 1/2 cup of strawberries 1/2 of spinach and 1/4 cup of almond milk unsweetened. My morning smoothie is 100 calories...1/2 banana 1/2 cup of strawberries 1/2 of spinach and 1/4 cup of almond milk unsweetened. Latest Fitness. When you're trying to lose weight, nutritionists recommend a smoothie stays between 300 and 400 calories, so take a peek at the breakdown below, do a little math, and find out just how many calories are in your go-to smoothie.
Measuring the Mix. Use 4 ounces of plain, low-fat yogurt, a cup of skim milk and a medium banana, and your smoothie will have 259 calories. Swap the skim milk for almond milk, and you'll save 23 calories. But if you use whole milk, the calories in your smoothie increase by 66. Depending on the ingredients, they can also be high in calories. You can make a basic banana smoothie with yogurt, milk and banana, or add other ingredients to increase the nutrient content and vary the flavor. Choose low-fat versions of dairy products to limit the saturated fat and calories in your smoothie.