A jackshaft, also called a countershaft, is a common mechanical design component used to transfer or synchronize rotational force in a machine. A jackshaft is often just a short stub with supporting bearings on the ends and two pulleys, gears, or cranks attached to it. Jackshaft [edit]. The oldest uses of the term jackshaft appear to involve shafts that were intermediate between water wheels or stationary steam engines and the line shafts of 19th century mills. In these early sources from New England mills in 1872 and 1880, the term jack shaft always appears in quotes
Definition of JACKSHAFT. : countershaft; specifically: the intermediate driving shaft in an automobile. ADVERTISEMENT. This word doesn't usually appear in our free dictionary, but the definition from our premium Unabridged Dictionary is offered here on a limited basis.
One of the first uses of the term jackshaft in the context of railroad equipment was in an 1890 patent application by Samuel Mower. In his electric-motor driven railroad truck, the motor was geared to a jackshaft mounted between the side frames. Jackshaft [edit]. The oldest uses of the term jackshaft appear to involve shafts that were intermediate between water wheels or stationary steam engines and the line shafts of 19th century mills. In these early sources from New England mills in 1872 and 1880, the term jack shaft always appears in quot
Origin of JACKSHAFT. 1jack (something smaller) + shaft. This word doesn't usually appear in our free dictionary, but the definition from our premium Unabridged Dictionary is offered here on a limited basis. Note that some information is displayed differently in the Unabridged
A: Operators are mechanisms that control access through gates, barrier arms, commercial and residential garage doors. They may be set up to operate with keys, key pads, telephone entry, radios with intercoms, timers, cards, readers, electronic sensors, payment systems and more. DGO Access is a systems integration business. A: Trolley operators are typically used with standard sectional doors and commonly look like standard residential garage doors with a rail that mounts parallel to the ceiling.