The Jews were, for their era, an unsophisticated people. This is evidenced by their response on seeing the great ziggurat of Babylon, which they thought must have been intended to reach right up to heaven. The Babylonian Exile meant the end of the Judahite monarchy, with a theocracy taking its place. After the conquest of Babylon by Cyrus of Persia, the Old Testament, for the first time, shows genuine affection for non-Jewish people. The Jews also came into contact with the Zoroastrian religion and may have absorbed many of the concepts of modern Judaism during this period.
The Babylonian Captivity had a number of serious effects on Judaism and Jewish culture. For example, the current Hebrew script was adopted during this period, replacing the traditional Israelite script. In Rabbinic literature, Babylon was one of a number of metaphors for the Jewish diaspora. Most frequently the term Babylon meant the diaspora prior to the destruction of the Second Temple. The post-destruction term for the Jewish Diaspora was  Rome , or  Edom .
The Babylonian Exile is the period of Jewish history in which the people of Judea were forced to leave their historic homeland and were relocated to other parts of the Babylonian Empire. Historians place the beginning of the Babylonian Exile between 588 and 586 B.C. Like most ancient Middle Eastern people, the Jews' religious identity had been tied to their homeland. Many scholars believe that the Jewish religion was monolateral before the Babylonian Exile. Simply put, that means that the Jewish people acknowledged the existence of other gods, but believed that they should only worship the god of Israel.
The Temple and the Synagogue. Before the Babylonian exile, Jewish religious life revolved around the Temple in Jerusalem. When the Babylonians expelled the Jews from Judea, they destroyed the Temple completely. Many scholars believe that the Jewish religion was monolateral before the Babylonian Exile. Simply put, that means that the Jewish people acknowledged the existence of other gods, but believed that they should only worship the god of Israel.
The kingdom of Babylon conquered Judah in 587 BCE. The Babylonians destroyed Jerusalem and its temple, and exported the elite members of its population to Babylon. This period is known as the Babylonian captivity. Despite the loss of the temple, Judaism did not die out as a religion. The temple cult and sacrifice were impossible. The Jews consolidated around their sacred writings, and the Torah took the place of the temple as a sacred center. Judah returned from exile in 539 BCE. Israel became a province of Persia under the priests. In 428 CE, Ezra brought the Torah from Babylon to Jerusalem, effectively marking the beginnings of modern Jewish religion.
For the Jews in Babylon, it did both. From texts such as Lamentations, which was probably written in Jerusalem, and Job, written after the exile, as well as many of the Psalms, Hebrew literature takes on a despairing quality. The subject of Job is human suffering itself. The people of the land (am-hares) were allowed to stay. So Jewish history, then, has two poles during the exile: the Jew in Babylon and the Jews who remain in Judah. We know almost nothing of the Jews in Judah after 586.
The Babylonian captivity or Babylonian exile is the period in Jewish history during which a number of Judahites of the ancient Kingdom of Judah were captives in Babylonia. After the Battle of Carchemish in 605 BCE, Nebuchadnezzar besieged Jerusalem, resulting in tribute being paid by King Jehoiakim. In Rabbinic literature, Babylon was one of a number of metaphors for the Jewish diaspora. Most frequently the term Babylon meant the diaspora prior to the destruction of the Second Temple. The post-destruction term for the Jewish Diaspora was  Rome , or  Edom .
Nebuchadnezzar II was successful, in 586 BCE, he destroyed the Jewish temple in city of Jerusalem. Nebuchadnezzar II forced thousands of Jews to move to Babylon, many served as slaves. This is known as the Babylonian Captivity. The Babylonian Captivity Not all the Jews in Babylon worked as slaves. 
The Old Testament shows that the Jews suffered great hardships in Babylon, living as slaves and longing to return to Jerusalem. The first chapter of Genesis was writtten by the Priestly source, apparently during the Exile and loosely based on Babylonian beliefs about creation. After the conquest of Babylon by Cyrus of Persia, the Old Testament, for the first time, shows genuine affection for non-Jewish people. The Jews also came into contact with the Zoroastrian religion and may have absorbed many of the concepts of modern Judaism during this period.
Answer. The Jews were a sophisticated people at the time of the Babylonian exile, having established trading routes well into Asia and Africa. They were master vintners and gardeners which is why it's believed the Babylonians treated them in a unique way from other nations they invaded. After the conquest of Babylon by Cyrus of Persia, the Old Testament, for the first time, shows genuine affection for non-Jewish people. The Jews also came into contact with the Zoroastrian religion and may have absorbed many of the concepts of modern Judaism during this period.