The Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act of 2002 (BCRA) includes several provisions designed to end the use of nonfederal, or soft money (money raised outside the limits and prohibitions of federal campaign finance law) for activity affecting federal elections. 
U.S. Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., was the primary sponsor of the McCain-Feingold Bill, 2002 legislation that changed campaign finance laws in the United States. U.S. Sen. Russell Feingold, D-Wisc., was the co-sponsor of the McCain-Feingold Bill, which was signed into law in 2002 by President George W. Bush. Two key issues were addressed in the McCain-Feingold Bill, which is formally known as the Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act of 2002. The first was “soft money” contributions, money that comes from organizations and groups, rather than political campaigns and parties
Split and merge into it. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. The act called the McCain-Feingold campaign reform act is actually the act known as the Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act, meant to change the financing of political campaigns. 
1 What Does the Legislation of the McCain-Feingold Act Mean for Politics? 2  Politics is big business. 3  During political campaigning, individuals, NGOs, corporations and other organizations stand in line to help out their candidate(s) of choice. The purpose of the act, was for the Government to assimilate the First Nations. The Indian act had a very ethnocentric viewpoint-based off the European colonists. Also the ac … t affirmed the rights of the FN.
The Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act of 2002 (BCRA, McCain–Feingold Act, Pub.L. 107–155, 116 Stat. 81, enacted March 27, 2002, H.R. 2356) is a United States federal law that amended the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971, which regulates the financing of political campaigns. Its chief sponsors were Senators Russ Feingold (D-WI) and John McCain (R-AZ). Although the legislation is known as McCain–Feingold, the Senate version is not the bill that became law. Instead, the companion legislation, H.R. 2356—introduced by Rep. Chris Shays (R-CT), is the version
The McCain-Feingold Bill is a bill that was introduced to the United States Senate in 2002 in an attempt to reform campaign financing in the United States. The bill passed after some modifications and was signed into law by then-President George Bush. Two key issues were addressed in the McCain-Feingold Bill, which is formally known as the Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act of 2002. The first was “soft money” contributions, money that comes from organizations and groups, rather than political campaigns and parties
U.S. Sens. John McCain, left, and Russ Feingold worked together to push through what was among the first significant campaign-finance reform measures in modern political history. U.S. Senate. The McCain-Feingold Act is one of several federal laws that regulates the financing of political campaigns. It is named after its chief sponsors, Republican U.S. Sen. John McCain of Arizona and Democratic U.S. Sen. Russell Feingold of Wisconsin. 
Legislative Background. The Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act (BCRA) is the result of two different proposed bills to amend the Federal Election Campaign Act (1971), which regulates political campaign financing. The first bill was proposed by Senators John McCain and Russ Feingold. The Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act of 2002, nicknamed the McCain-Feingold Act after two of its Senate sponsors, sets limits on campaign financing available, restricts the types of political advertising aired prior to an election, and requires greater fiscal transparency for political donations. Other People Are Reading.