No. You can't have your menstrual period while you're pregnant. Some women do have vaginal bleeding during pregnancy. Some even report intermittent bleeding that seems like a regular period to them. But vaginal bleeding during pregnancy is not the same thing as menstruation. 
Yes, you can get pregnant right after your period. You are actually starting to move into your fertility window. On a typical cycle that occurs every 28 to 30 days, the fertility window is usually between Day 11 and Day 21. As noted above sperm can live 2, 3 and up to 5 days. The question about whether you can get pregnant on your period or not is probably the most common of the three situations noted above. The answer is yes and no. The probability is that you would not get pregnant having sex during
Typically a woman ovulates around 14 days before the start of her period. So if you have an average 28 day cycle, you would most likely ovulate on cycle day 14. A woman’s cycle, though, is not always predictable. Even women who normally have regular cycles can have an off cycle and ovulate earlier or later than normal. If you ovulate very early in your cycle, for example, on cycle day 10, it would be possible to conceive if you had intercourse while on your period. The best time for a woman to get pregnant is around the middle of her cycle, close to ovulation. For the average woman this is around cycle day 12 to 16. However, it is possible to get pregnant during your period and there are several reasons why.
Yes you can get pregnant during your period, but your chances of getting pregnant during your period are slim. The best time for a woman to get pregnant is around the middle of her cycle, close to ovulation. For the average woman this is around cycle day 12 to 16. However, it is possible to get pregnant during your period and there are several reasons why. Sperm can live for up to 5 days Normally sperm can survive inside a woman’s body for around two to three days
You could have sex towards the end of your bleeding and then actually conceive 4 or 5 days later with your early ovulation. The probabilities of getting pregnant while on your period are low, but the possibilities are there. This is not the time to have sex if you are trying to get pregnant. The question about whether you can get pregnant on your period or not is probably the most common of the three situations noted above. The answer is yes and no. The probability is that you would not get pregnant having sex during your period.
Carolyn Kubik. fertility specialist. Yes, it's possible to get pregnant during your period. You'd have to have a very short menstrual cycle, which is the time from the first day of one period to the first day of the next period, or a tendency to have long periods. Conception occurs when an egg and sperm meet in a fallopian tube. 
Ovulation, (when the egg is released from the ovary), usually occurs about 12 to 16 days before your next period. For example, if you have a 28-day cycle, you'll usually ovulate sometime between day 12 and day 16 of your cycle. The first day of your period (when you start bleeding) is counted as the first day of your cycle. During your period, an egg is usually developing in preparation for release mid-cycle. The time that it takes for an egg to mature within the ovary can vary. This means that the day you ovulate can also vary from cycle to cycle (but is usually 14 days before your next period starts). If your cycle is shorter than average, 22 days for example, then you could ovulate just days after your period, if your period lasted seven days or mor
While it is highly unlikely, it is indeed possible to get pregnant while you are on your period. This usually takes place when a woman has a cycle that is very short and where ovulation occurs very close to the start of their period. There is a common misconception that a woman cannot get pregnant while on her period. This is simply untrue. The question can you get pregnant on your period can be answered with one word…yes! It is absolutely possible to get pregnant while menstruating and there have been many documented cases of just such a situation.
Knowing which day you ovulate and when you are most fertile will help you determine which day is best to try to conceive. Typically a woman, whose cycle is the standard 28 days, will ovulate between 12 and 14 days after the last day of her period. If your cycle is longer, you will typically ovulate at a later time. There is a common misconception that a woman cannot get pregnant while on her period. This is simply untrue. The question can you get pregnant on your period can be answered with one word…yes! It is absolutely possible to get pregnant while menstruating and there have been many documented cases of just such a situation.