Softwood. Just like hardwoods softwoods or soft timbers are not necessarily soft or less dense it is just more likely that they are softer than hardwoods. The visual differences in soft timbers compared with hard timbers include things such as usually being lighter in colour and usually softer.
Classifying wood as either a hardwood or softwood comes down to its physical structure and makeup, and so it is overly simple to think of hardwoods as being hard and durable compared to soft and workable softwoods. Uses of Hardwood vs Softwood. In many cases, hardwoods and softwoods are both used for many of the same purposes, with more emphasis placed on the type of hardwood or softwood and how dense it is. Generally, though, softwoods are cheaper and easier to work with than hardwoods. As such, they make up the bulk of all wood used in the world, with about 80% of all timber being a softwood
Softwood is just normal wood from a tree, but it's only wood from certain types of trees. All the pine and fir trees are softwood trees (conifers) and the leafy trees like oak … s and maples (deciduous) are hardwood trees. Examples are Pine, Fir, Spruce, Larch, Cedar and the Giant Redwood. Remember, the terms softwoods and hardwoods are used to describe the leaves, seeds and structure of the trees. It is NOT used to describe the type of wood produced. For example, balsa is light and very soft to use. It is used to make light weight models. It is however a hardwood
Full Definition of SOFTWOOD. 1. : the wood of a coniferous tree (as a fir or pine) whether hard or soft as distinguished from that of an angiospermous tree. 2. : a tree that yields softwood. See softwood defined for English-language learners. See softwood defined for kids. : the wood of a tree (as a pine or spruce) that has needles as distinguished from the wood of a tree (as a maple) with broad leaves.
Definition of SOFTWOOD for Kids. : the wood of a tree (as a pine or spruce) that has needles as distinguished from the wood of a tree (as a maple) with broad leaves.
Softwood is a type of wood that is cheap and only has two types of cells. Softwoods: These are produced by the cone bearing trees (conifers). They are generally evergreen and have easily recognizable needle-like leaves. Examples are Pine, Fir, Spruce, Larch, Cedar and the Giant Redwood. Remember, the terms softwoods and hardwoods are used to describe the leaves, seeds and structure of the trees. It is NOT used to describe the type of wood produced. For example, balsa is light and very soft to use. It is used to make light weight models. It is however a hardwood
Scots Pine, a typical and well-known softwood. Softwood is wood from gymnosperm trees such as conifers. Softwood is the source of about 80% of the world's production of timber, with traditional centres of production being the Baltic region (including Scandinavia and Russia), North America and China.
softwood. n. 1. (Forestry) the open-grained wood of any of numerous coniferous trees, such as pine and cedar, as distinguished from that of a dicotyledonous tree. 2. (Plants) any tree yielding this wood. (ˈsɔftˌwʊd, ˈsɒft-). n. adj. 