Creationists believe dinosaurs are thousands, not millions, of years old. Pro: In order to square the existence of dinosaurs with the Book of Genesis--which posits a world that's only several thousand years old--Creationists insist that dinosaurs were created ex nihilo, by god, along with all the other animals. Creationists believe dinosaurs are mentioned in the Bible. Pro: Whenever the word  dragon  is used in the Old Testament, what's really meant is dinosaur, Creationists say--and they point out that other ancient texts also mention these fearsome, scaly creatures.
The extinct aquatic reptiles, such as the plesiosaurs, and the extinct flying reptiles, such as the pterodactyls, are not classified as dinosaurs, and most evolutionists do not believe that they evolved into birds. The theropod type of dinosaur that is believed to have evolved into flying birds is, to say the least, poorly designed for flight. These dinosaurs have small forelimbs that typically can’t even reach their mouths. It is not clear what theropods, such as the well-known T. rex, did with their tiny front limbs.
With evolution, dinosaurs were here first and died out over 65 million years ago, and they died because of the big meteor that crashed into the earth which is what buried them. Science and history books teach about how dinosaurs existed 65 million years ago because science and physics support evolution's timeline and events, and creationism is purely based on faith, with no substantial proof.
In an effort to make the evolution of dinosaurs into birds seem more plausible, some evolutionists have argued that dinosaurs were also endothermic, 1 but there is no clear evidence for this. 2. One of the lines of evidence for endothermic dinosaurs is based on the microscopic structure of dinosaur bones. The theropod type of dinosaur that is believed to have evolved into flying birds is, to say the least, poorly designed for flight. These dinosaurs have small forelimbs that typically can’t even reach their mouths. It is not clear what theropods, such as the well-known T. rex, did with their tiny front limbs.
The idea of millions of years of evolution is just the evolutionists’ story about the past. No scientist was there to see the dinosaurs live through this supposed dinosaur age. In fact, there is no proof whatsoever that the world and its fossil layers are millions of years old. As dinosaurs were land animals, they must have been made on this day, alongside Adam and Eve, who were also created on Day Six (. ). If God designed and created dinosaurs, they would have been fully functional, designed to do what they were created for, and would have been 100% dinosaur. This fits exactly with the evidence from the fossil record. Evolutionists declare that no man ever lived alongside dinosaurs
According to evolutionists, the dinosaurs “ruled the Earth” for 140 million years, dying out about 65 million years ago. However, scientists do not dig up anything labeled with those ages. They only uncover dead dinosaurs (i.e., their bones), and their bones do not have labels attached telling how old they are. As dinosaurs were land animals, they must have been made on this day, alongside Adam and Eve, who were also created on Day Six (. ). If God designed and created dinosaurs, they would have been fully functional, designed to do what they were created for, and would have been 100% dinosaur. This fits exactly with the evidence from the fossil record. Evolutionists declare that no man ever lived alongside dinosaurs
Report Abusive Post. Report Copyright Violation. Dinosaurs a hoax created and perpetuated by evolutionists? Does anybody believe as I do that the dinosaurs are nothing more than a myth that was constructed by the evolutionist community in order to perpetuate their lie of evolution? 
show more With evolution, dinosaurs were here first and died out over 65 million years ago, and they died because of the big meteor that crashed into the earth which is what buried them. But the Bible says they were created along with the rest of the animlas and it was the great flood that killed them. Science and history books teach about how dinosaurs existed 65 million years ago because science and physics support evolution's timeline and events, and creationism is purely based on faith, with no substantial proof.
Best Answer: here is a link to a good resource on evolution You can read the whole book online http://www.chick.com/catalog/books/0123.... God created this world according to the Bible in six days. He is GOD. Do not limit Him. Science and history books teach about how dinosaurs existed 65 million years ago because science and physics support evolution's timeline and events, and creationism is purely based on faith, with no substantial proof.