Learn how to neutralize the hair after a perm with expert tips in this free hair care video. Expert: Lillian Garcia. Bio: Lillian Garcia is the owner of Salon de Scottsdale in Albuquerque, New Mexico. She has been a hair artist and beauty consultant since 1974. Filmmaker: Juan-Diego Garcia. 
It is going to neutralize some of the red out of her hair and it is going to give her still warmth because she had warmth in it to begin with and our natural seal has a little bit of that yellow tone in there so your base is in knowing your primary color chart is important to get your color and that is for sure. Video Transcript. My name is Elizabeth Muller from Liz's Hair Design in Hollywood, Florida and today we are showing you how to do color on relaxed hair. I have went ahead and opened it up just a little bit like this but notice it is just on the very ends of her hair.
Many shampoos are alkaline in nature which can severely affect the acidic balance of our hair and strip away natural oils that combat bacteria. This can quickly lead to dry, brittle hair, prone to breakage. Curly hair naturally has raised cuticles which causes more difficulty in maintaining a 4.5-5.5 balance. Substances between 0-6.9 are acidic, 7 neutral and 7.1-14 is alkaline. Our hair and sebum naturally has a pH balance between 4.5 and 5.5. This means our hair and sebum (natural oils) are healthiest when acidic.
Here's an easy and efficient way to help neutralize acidosis: drink alkaline water and water with a teaspoon of French Green clay. Water is the origin of all life on Earth, but it is a limited, non-renewable resource. The water we were given when the Earth first formed is all we will ever get. Acidosis is simply the lack of oxygen and available calcium, which the body uses to maintain its alkaline balance. Calcium makes up 1.6% of our body weight, and is literally like human glue that holds the body together. A calcium ion can hold onto seven other molecules while it grabs onto one molecule of water.
1 2 tsp. (10 ml) of castor or almond oil can be added to the leave-in conditioner recipe if your hair is very dry or curly. 2  Lime juice and lemon juice both have a pH of 2, and they are also great pH adjusters to bring alkaline hair products into the healthy pH range. 1 Not all types of vinegar have the same acidity. 2  Apple cider vinegar is less acidic than distilled white vinegar. 3  You can use test strips to judge the acidity of household vinegars. 4 
Water has a pH level of 7, so it is more alkali than your hair. 4. Use a natural acid to bring your hair into an acidic pH range, if your hair is naturally oily. You can pour aloe vera juice in a bottle and mist it over your hair. This will also close the cuticle and remove frizz. 1  You can also use apple cider vinegar. 1 Not all types of vinegar have the same acidity. 2  Apple cider vinegar is less acidic than distilled white vinegar. 3  You can use test strips to judge the acidity of household vinegars. 4  2 tsp. (10 ml) of castor or almond oil can be added to the leave-in conditioner recipe if your hair is very dry or curly.
If you want to learn how to restore your hair’s natural pH level, its really quite a simple process once you understand your hair. The natural oil that our hair secretes is a natural oil called sebum. Sebum maintains the moisture and balance in our hair. The hairs natural pH balance is between 4.5 and 5.5 scale. But what is most important is that we understand how to measure our hair’s level of Alkaline or Acid. Alkaline means that the product has a pH level of 7 or over and it is a non-acidic product. The cuticle opens up when an alkaline substance is applied to it. This is what allows hair colorant to penetrate the cortex. There, it reacts with the hairs pigmentation to produce the color change
1 pH is a parameter that can be applied to anything: there’s the pH of the skin, the pH of the hair, the pH of water, the pH of milk, anything. 2  A lot of hydrogen ions = an acid pH. 3  Few hydrogen ions or none = an alkaline pH. 1 So it determines a certain quantity, referred to as hydrogen ions in the water. 2  pH is a parameter that can be applied to anything: there’s the pH of the skin, the pH of the hair, the pH of water, the pH of milk, anything. 3  A lot of hydrogen ions = an acid pH. 4  Few hydrogen ions or none = an alkaline pH.