Registeel-Route 120, on a hill in another cave.     go to the islands in emerald, u need surf and dive, several  different pokemon such as relicanth and wailord in your party in a  certain order, and a braille translator. Regirock-Route 111, within a cave in the desert. Registeel-Route 120, on a hill in another cave. go to the islands in emerald, u need surf and dive, several different pokemon such as relicanth and wailord in your party in a
Catch the Pokemon Wailord and Relicanth. To catch Wailord, you must use the Surf ability in the water area of Route 129. You can also catch a Wailmer, which is commonly found in multiple areas, and evolve it to a Wailord. Relicanth is found in the sea grass in the underwater area of Routes 124 and 126. The door to Regirock's chamber will open. Fight Regirock using your strongest Pokemon until he is fatigued enough to capture by using a Pokeball. Travel to Route 120 to locate the ancient tomb of Registeel. Read the inscription inside the tomb, then walk to the center of the room and use the Flash ability.
Regice-Route 105, in an island cavern. Regirock-Route 111, within a cave in the desert. Registeel-Route 120, on a hill in another cave. go to the islands in emerald, u need surf and dive, several different pokemon such as relicanth and wailord in your party in a certain order, and a braille translator.
How to Catch the 3 Regis in Pokemon Sapphire or Ruby. Seven Parts: Preparing to Unlock Surfing the Currents Unlocking the Regis Finding Regice Finding Regirock Finding Registeel Obtaining Regigigas (Alpha Sapphire and Omega Ruby). The three Regis are Regirock, Regice, and Registeel. Catch a Relicanth. This is a rare Pokemon that can only be found in Underwater areas. In Ruby and Sapphire, use Dive on Route 124 and 126 to try to encounter a Relicanth, which has a 5% chance of appearing. In Alpha Sapphire and Omega Ruby, you can find additional Underwater areas on Routes 107, 129, and 130.
Found This Helpful. Regirock, Registeel and Regice, also known as the three Regis, are legendary Pokemon that appear in Pokemon Emerald.. The three Regis Pokemon each appear only once in the Pokemon Emerald inside ancient tombs that are closed off to the player at the beginning of the game. The door to Regirock's chamber will open. Fight Regirock using your strongest Pokemon until he is fatigued enough to capture by using a Pokeball. Travel to Route 120 to locate the ancient tomb of Registeel. Read the inscription inside the tomb, then walk to the center of the room and use the Flash ability.
Go up to it and if you are playing Ruby/Sapphire, it will say FIRST COMES RELICANTH. LAST COMES WAILORD.. If you are playing Emerald, it will say FIRST COMES WAILORD. LAST COMES RELICANTH.. Do what the text says and move Wailord and Relicanth to the correct spots in your team. Do this correctly and a small earthquake will happen. -Wailord is found by fishing with Super Rod on Route 129 or you can Level Wailmer to Lv. 40 to evolve. Fly to Pacidflog Town and Surf west towards the fast moving currents. Stay towards the bottom of the screen then go into the current. It will carry you forward and drop you off at an island surrounding by rocks.
dagcool answered: You can obtain Regice Regirock and Registeel on Pokemon Ruby/Saphire or Emerald then transfer them over to the DS. There are many tips on how to go about catching them in the faqs for those games. 6 years ago 2 0. 
To get registeel in emerald, go to the center of the cave and use flash and the second cave to open registeel. To get regirock, go straight to the middle of the of the braille wall click on it and then go left, left, down, down, and then use rock-smash and the second cave to regirock will open. Put Wailord first in your party and Relicanth last. The next door should open up. Now three new caves have appeared all over Hoenn where Registeel, Regirock, and Regice are now. Registeel is on Route 120 in the Ancient, Regirock is on Route 111 in the Desert Ruins, and Regice is on Route 105 in the Island Cave. To get Regice, go to Dewford town then surf like you are going to petlburg until you see the small island. Go on the island
Go through the door to battle Regirock, who will be at Lv. 40 and know Ancientpower, Curse, Superpower, and Rock Throw. Regice Fly to Dewford and Surf north. Stay near the left side and you should notice a large rock surrounded by a ring of rocks. Enter, read the Braille, and follow the instructions. -Wailord is found by fishing with Super Rod on Route 129 or you can Level Wailmer to Lv. 40 to evolve. Fly to Pacidflog Town and Surf west towards the fast moving currents. Stay towards the bottom of the screen then go into the current. It will carry you forward and drop you off at an island surrounding by rocks.