Mitochondria Structure and Functions. Mitochondria are called the 'powerhouse of the cell'. They contain a number of enzymes and proteins that help process carbohydrates and fats obtained from the food we eat to release energy. Read on to know about the structure and functions of the organelle. Although mitochondria are present in every cell, they are found in high concentrations in the muscle cells that require more energy. Though the primary function of mitochondria is to produce energy, they also play an important role in the metabolism and synthesis of certain other substances in the body.
Mitochondria are well-defined cytoplasmic organelles of the cell which take part in a variety of cellular metabolic functions. Survival of the cells requires energy to perform different functions. The mitochondria are important as the fact that these organelles supply all the necessary biological energy of the cell, and they obtain this energy by oxidizing the substrates of the Krebs cycle. Functions of Mitochondria. The most prominent function of mitochondria is to produce energy to the cell in the form of ATP through oxidative respiration process. It also regulates the metabolic activity of the cell.
1. Production of energy. ATP Synthesis. The main function of mitochondria is the production of ATP. According to many textbooks: Energy production within cells is the main function of mitochondria. However, some students are told not to state that mitochondria produce or create energy. Strictly, the energy is released from storage (in chemical bonds) by reactions that occur in mitochondria.
Organization and Function of Mitochondria. Mitochondria are surrounded by a double-membrane system, consisting of inner and outer mitochondrial membranes separated by an intermembrane space (Figure 10.1). The inner membrane forms numerous folds (cristae), which extend into the interior (or matrix) of the organelle.
The main function of mitochondria is the production of energy during the production of adenosine triphosphate (ATP) via the TCA Cycle (which is also as the Krebs Cycle and the Citric Acid Cycle). That process is an important metabolic pathway (see also what is metabolism). According to many textbooks: Energy production within cells is the main function of mitochondria. However, some students are told not to state that mitochondria produce or create energy. Strictly, the energy is released from storage (in chemical bonds) by reactions that occur in
The mitochondrion (plural mitochondria) is a double membrane-bound organelle found in most eukaryotic cells. The word mitochondrion comes from the Greek μίτος, mitos, i.e. thread, and χονδρίον, chondrion, i.e. granule or grain-like. Mitochondria range from 0.5 to 1.0 μm in diameter. 
The function of the mitochondria in a plant cell is to support the  function of the cell and the structure. The mitochondria usually  has a membrane which has folds that are … stretched to provide a  wider surface area for cellular activities. 1 person found this useful. The mitochondria provide energy for the cell. They are known as the powerhouse of the cell because they provide the location for the production of ATP (adenosine tri-phosphate). ATP is produced by aerobic respiration such as glycolysis, the Krebs cycle, and electron transport
Mitochondria are the power plants of the cell. The function of the mitochondria is to provide the chemical energy necessary to carry out the various cellular activities. Defects in the mitochondria structure or in the gene organization in the mitochondria lead to ill health and disease.
An organelle found in large numbers in most cells, in which the biochemical processes of respiration and energy production occur. The main function of the mitochondria is the … production of energy, in the form of adenosine triphosphate (ATP). The cell uses this energy to perform the specific work necessary for cell survival and function. 6 people found this useful. Answered. The mitochondria provide energy for the cell. They are known as the  powerhouse of the cell because they provide the location for the  production of ATP (adenosine tri-phosp … hate). ATP is produced by  aerobic respiration such as glycolysis, the Krebs cycle, and  electron transport.