Inez is an American spelling of the Spanish and Portuguese name Ines/Inés, ines inês the forms of the  Given . Name agnes the name is /pronounced/ , /as/ , iːˈnɛz /aɪˈnɛz/ . or aɪˈnɛθ 1 Inez, the character played by Rachel McAdams (Midnight in Paris). 2  Inez, the character played by Lumi Cavazos (Bottle Rocket). 3  Little Inez Stubbs, the character played by Taylor Parks from Hairspray (2007). 4  Inez Wong, the mother of Amy Wong on the TV series Futurama.
Ynez is an uncommonly occurring given name for women. Ynez is also an uncommon last name for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census). Popular variation forms of Ynez (unlisted) appearing in the Top 1000 are Inez, Una, Ines, Ina, Anais, Annis and Agnes. These girl names reached the apex of their popularity during the years 1900-1909 (usage of 0.5427%) and are now significantly less widespread, with versions such as Annis, Agnes, Ina, Ines and Una becoming somewhat dated. Displayed below is an analysis of the popularity of the girl name Ynez and corresponding names.
You can find out where the majority of the Yanez families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. from the New York Passenger Lists. A short lifespan might also indicate health problems that were once prevalent in your family. The SSDI is a searchable database of more than 70 million names. You can find birthdates, death dates, addresses and more.
Origin of the name Agnes: Derived from the Greek Hagnē, which is from hagnos (chaste, pure, sacred). The name was borne by a thirteen-year-old Roman martyred for her Christian beliefs during the reign of the Roman emperor Diocletian. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. Personal experiences with the name Ynez: | Edit. Share what you know! Nicknames for Ynez: | Edit. Share what you know! Meanings and history of the name Ynez : | Edit. Ynez is an older spelling of the Spanish name Ines, which is a cognate to Agnes. The name of St. Agnes, as Santa Ynez, was used first on a California mission and then on a valley in northern Santa Barbara County in California
Ynez /ynez/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced ee-NEZ. It is of French and Spanish origin, and the meaning of Ynez is chaste. Variant of Agnes (Greek) pure. These girl names reached the apex of their popularity during the years 1900-1909 (usage of 0.5427%) and are now significantly less widespread, with versions such as Annis, Agnes, Ina, Ines and Una becoming somewhat dated. Displayed below is an analysis of the popularity of the girl name Ynez and corresponding names.
Ynez is used predominantly in the Spanish and English languages. It is derived from Old Greek origins. In addition, Ynez is a variation (Spanish) of the name Agnes (Dutch, English, German, and Scandinavian). Ynez is also a variant spelling (English and Spanish) of the name Inez (English, Portuguese, and Spanish). The names Ynes and Ynesita are variations of Ynez. Ynez is not frequently used as a baby girl name. It is not listed in the top 1000
Yanez Name Meaning. Spanish (Yanez): yáñez patronymic from a variant of the personal Name, Juan spanish equivalent Of. John Compare.Ibanez americanized spelling Of Slovenian, janež a derivative of the personal Name, Janez Latin (iohannes See). john A short lifespan might also indicate health problems that were once prevalent in your family. The SSDI is a searchable database of more than 70 million names. You can find birthdates, death dates, addresses and more.
Inez is an American spelling of the Spanish and Portuguese name Ines/Inés, ines inês the forms of the  Given . name agnes 1 Inez, the character played by Rachel McAdams (Midnight in Paris). 2  Inez, the character played by Lumi Cavazos (Bottle Rocket). 3  Little Inez Stubbs, the character played by Taylor Parks from Hairspray (2007). 4  Inez Wong, the mother of Amy Wong on the TV series Futurama.