Tawhid (Arabic: توحيد ‎ tawḥīd, meaning [doctrine of the] oneness [of God ]; also transliterated as Tawheed and Tauheed) is the indivisible oneness concept of monotheism in Islam. Tawhid constitutes the foremost article of the Muslim profession of faith. The first part of the Shahada (the Islamic declaration of faith) is the declaration of belief in the oneness of God. To attribute divinity to a created entity, known as shirk, is an unpardonable sin according to the Qur'an.
This indicates that Tawheed is the essence of the testimony that there is no god except Allah and that Muhammad is the Messenger of Allah, and that this is Islam with which Allah sent His Prophet to the two races of mankind and the jinn, other than which Allaah will not accept any religion from anyone. Allah is Waahid, meaning that He has no rivals or peers in any way. So Tawheed means knowing Allah is One, with none like unto Him. Whoever does not acknowledge Allah in these terms and does not describe Him as being One with no partner or associate does not believe in Tawheed.
An explanation of Tawheed (the oneness of Allaah). The difference between Islaam (Submission to the creator of everything that exists) and all other religions which are formulated upon polytheism. This part of tawheed is known as tawheed-al-Ibadah or the unity of Allaah's worship. It is this aspect of tawheed which it could be said is the most important. It is through this that we learn how to worship our Creator alone. Allaah is not the kind of god who does not respond or hear your calls
Tawheed in Arabic means attributing Oneness to Allah and describing Him as being One and Unique, with no partner or peer in His Essence and Attributes. The Arabs say waahid, ahad and waheed, all meaning one. Allah is Waahid, meaning that He has no rivals or peers in any way. So Tawheed means knowing Allah is One, with none like unto Him. Whoever does not acknowledge Allah in these terms and does not describe Him as being One with no partner or associate does not believe in Tawheed.
Shirk in Tawheed al-Asma wa-Sifaat is to give other than Allah, the qualities (Attributes), which are specific of Allah Alone. Tawheed ar-Ruboobiyyah means to believe that Allah alone is the Rabb (the Creator, Provider, Sustainer, etc.) He has no partner in His Dominion and Actions.
The Unity of Allah's names and Attributes. This category of tawheed is known as Tawheed-al-Asma Wa-Siffaat or the unity of Allah's name and attributes. Allah says in the Qur'aan: Allah there is no god but be. 'What is tawheed?' you ask any Muslim 'Is it the oneness of Allah?' he would reply 'What's that?' You ask again.
It is true that tawheed is simply the oneness of Allaah, yet at the same time it is something which is so vividly explained in our religion, that it is a life long quest for knowledge. The word Tawheed has by the grace of Allah, become a word which is well known amongst the Muslims of today. This part of tawheed is known as tawheed-al-Ibadah or the unity of Allaah's worship. It is this aspect of tawheed which it could be said is the most important. It is through this that we learn how to worship our Creator alone. Allaah is not the kind of god who does not respond or hear your calls
The Unity of Allah's Worship. This part of tawheed is known as tawheed-al-eebadah or the unity of Allah's worship. It is this aspect of tawheed which it could be said is the most important. It is through this that we learn how to worship our Creator alone. Allah is not the kind of god who does not respond or hear your calls. The opposite of tawheed is 'Shirk' which is to associate partners with Allah by giving that which belongs to him, to others.[2]. Traditionally tawheed has been divided into three categories which help us to understand why Allah alone deserves to be singled out for worship.
Tawheed in Arabic means attributing Oneness to Allaah and describing Him as being One and Unique, with no partner or peer in His Essence and Attributes. The Arabs say waahid, ahad and waheed, all meaning one. Allaah is Waahid, meaning that He has no rivals or peers in any way. This word (Tawheed) and its derivatives are used with this meaning in the Qur’aan and Sunnah. For example: Allaah says (interpretation of the meaning): “Say (O Muhammad): He is Allaah, (the) One [Ahad]. 2. Allaah‑us‑Samad [Allaah — the Self‑Sufficient Master, Whom all creatures need, (He neither eats nor drinks)]. 3.