Baltsaa. Answered in digestive system. The gastrointestinal tract is made up of. simple columnar eithelium throughout the alimentary canal, but strtified squamous epithelium lines the alimentary canal from mouth to stomach (also anal canal) where abrasions are most likely to occur. Baltsaa. contains skeletal muscle in mouth,pharynx,and esophagus to assist in voluntary swallowing. smooth muscle throughout the remainder of alimentary canal breaks food down mixes it with secreteions and moves it toward anus.
The pathway of food molecules through the alimentary canal and the process of their digestion The function of the digestive system is to break down large molecules in food, such as protein and starch, into monomers that can easily be absorbed into the body and with a balanced diet it does its job efficiently. The alimentary canal is a long coiled tube that runs through the body from the mouth to the anus. It consists of associated glands, the salivary glands, the liver and the pancreas. This muscular tube is organised into several distinct regions. The overall process of nutrition can be divided into several stages.
The nematode digestive system is generally separated into three parts, the stomodeum, intestine, and proctodeum. The stomodeum consists of the “mouth and lips”, buccal cavity, and the pharynx (esophagus). Each of these regions are used extensively in taxonomy as well as classification of nematodes, and for providing as indication of feeding habit or trophic group.
The nematodes Digestive System is unique because they have different body than other organisms. There are three parts to the digestive system; the stomodeum, intestine, and proctodeum. In the stomodeum you have the mouth, esophagus, and the cavity between the jaws and the cheeks. The intestines is the whole alimentary canal form the mouth downward. This is where the food goes after it is taken in. The last step proctodeum represents the back ectodermal part of an alimentary canal.
Nematodes are the most numerous multicellular animals on earth. A handful of soil will contain thousands of the microscopic worms, many of them parasites of insects, plants or animals. Free-living species are abundant, including nematodes that feed on bacteria, fungi, and other nematodes, yet the vast majority of species encountered are poorly understood biologically. 
The digestive system of an ascarid consists of four parts: Alimentary Canal, Mouth, Pharynx, and Intestine. The alimentary canal compromises a short pharynx or esophagus representing the foregut, a long intestine or mod-gut, and a short rectum or hind gut. The stomodeum consists of the “mouth and lips”, buccal cavity, and the pharynx (esophagus). Each of these regions are used extensively in taxonomy as well as classification of nematodes, and for providing as indication of feeding habit or trophic group.
The digestive system is similar to that of the ascarid in that it does have a complete digestive system and it is parasitic. The hookworm has six lips that surround the mouth opening as well as the buccal cavity that leads from the mouth to the esophagus. The stomodeum consists of the “mouth and lips”, buccal cavity, and the pharynx (esophagus). Each of these regions are used extensively in taxonomy as well as classification of nematodes, and for providing as indication of feeding habit or trophic group.
The main part of the digestive system is the alimentary canal which consists of the mouth, oesophagus, stomach, small intestine and large intestine. 2. There are other organs associated with the alimentary canal to assist with digestion. These include the salivary glands, the pancreas, the liver and the gall bladder. V) Small intestine i) The small intestine is the longest section of the alimentary canal (about 6 metres) and consists of three segments forming a passage from the stomach to the large intestine.
Also, the hookworm takes in food through the intestine which stretches from the esophagus to the proctodeum and is a simple, tube-like structure made of a single layer of cells. Just about all of the digestive functions that occur in a hookworm occur in any other nematodes in which hookworms are just as parasitic. The stomodeum consists of the “mouth and lips”, buccal cavity, and the pharynx (esophagus). Each of these regions are used extensively in taxonomy as well as classification of nematodes, and for providing as indication of feeding habit or trophic group.