Purpose. The system of rating securities was originated by John Moody in 1909. The purpose of Moody's ratings is to provide investors with a simple system of gradation by which future relative creditworthiness of securities may be gauged. 
Fitch Ratings. An international rating agency for financial institutions, insurance companies, and corporate, sovereign, and municipal debt. Fitch Ratings has headquarters in New York and London and is wholly owned by FIMALAC of Paris. Formerly called Fitch Investors Service.
Rating Implications of an ABI/SABMiller Combination. A look at the credit implications of different acquisition structures and levels of leverage for a combined group. Listen: Fitch analysts discuss the report on a recent teleconference. DuPont CDS Widest Since 2011 amid Break-Up Speculation. 5yr CDS on DuPont have widened out 42% to price at the widest levels observed since 2011. After pricing consistently in line with 'A/A-' levels over the course of this year, credit protection for DuPont is now pricing in 'BBB' territory.
Hearst. Fitch Ratings is a global rating agency committed to providing the world's credit markets with independent and prospective credit opinions, research, and data. 
Fitch: 'Simple funds' to facilitate access to Brazil's capital markets. The creation of 'simple funds' by the Brazilian securities regulator (CVM) will provide easier access and potential for higher returns ... Banking Puerto Rico 2015-08-04. 
Definition. A business credit research and ratings firm. Fitch Ratings issues creditworthiness opinions for the bond, Eurobond, and funds markets. Compare to Moody's Investors Service and Standard & Poor's. See Bond Rating. Nearby Terms. 1  fiscal year. 2  fiscal year-end. 3  fiscalist. 4  Fisher criterio... 5  Fisher effect. 6  Fisher equation. 7  Fisher hypothes... 8  fist to five. 9  Fitch Ratings. 10  fitness for use. 11  fitted value. 12  five C's of cre... 13  five C's of mar... 14  five forces. 15  five S's. 16  five W's of com... 17  five year rule.
DEFINITION of 'Fitch Ratings'. An international credit rating agency based out of New York City and London. The company's ratings are used as a guide to investors as to which investments are most likely going to yield a return. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Fitch Ratings Inc. is one of the three nationally recognized statistical rating organizations (NRSRO) designated by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in 1975, together with Moody's and Standard & Poor's, and the three are commonly known as the . Big Three credit rating agencies . Previously, Hearst owned a 40% stake in the company, while FIMALAC was the majority owner with 60% stake. Fitch Ratings and Fitch Solutions are part of the Fitch Group. It is a jointly owned subsidiary of Hearst Corporation and FIMALAC SA.