Morbidity. 1  Number of adults with diagnosed chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease in the past year: 6.8 million. 2  Percent of adults with diagnosed chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease in the past year: 2.9%. 3  Number of adults with diagnosed chronic bronchitis in the past year: 8.7 million. 1 Number of adults with diagnosed chronic bronchitis in the past year: 8.7 million. 2  Percent of adults with diagnosed chronic bronchitis in the past year: 3.7%. 3  Number of adults who have ever been diagnosed with emphysema: 4.1 million. 4  Percent of adults who have ever been diagnosed with emphysema: 1.7%.
1 While the average survival time is 3 years, about twenty percent of people with ALS live five years, 10 percent will survive ten years and five percent will live 20 years or more. 2  Progression is not always a straight line in an individual either. En espanol. 1  ESPAñOL als is not. 2  Contagious although the life expectancy of a person WITH als averages about two to five years from the time of, diagnosis this disease is, variable and many people can live with the disease for five years and. 3  More more than half of all people WITH als live more than three years after.  diagnosis
An upper respiratory infection (URI), also known as the common cold, is one of the most common illnesses, leading to more health care provider visits and absences from school and work than any other illness every year. It is estimated that during a 1-year period, people in the U.S. will suffer 1 billion colds. 
1 Although the life expectancy of a person with ALS averages about two to five years from the time of diagnosis, this disease is variable, and many people can live with the disease for five years and more. En espanol. 1  ESPAñOL als is not. 2  Contagious although the life expectancy of a person WITH als averages about two to five years from the time of, diagnosis this disease is, variable and many people can live with the disease for five years and. 3  More more than half of all people WITH als live more than three years after.  diagnosis
1 Percent of adults with diagnosed chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease in the past year: 2.9%. 2  Number of adults with diagnosed chronic bronchitis in the past year: 8.7 million. 3  Percent of adults with diagnosed chronic bronchitis in the past year: 3.7%. 1 Number of adults with diagnosed chronic bronchitis in the past year: 8.7 million. 2  Percent of adults with diagnosed chronic bronchitis in the past year: 3.7%. 3  Number of adults who have ever been diagnosed with emphysema: 4.1 million. 4  Percent of adults who have ever been diagnosed with emphysema: 1.7%.
Currently in the United States, more than 23 million people 6, 7 have asthma. Approximately 13.6 million adults have been diagnosed with COPD, and an approximately equal number have not yet been diagnosed. 8 The burden of respiratory diseases affects individuals and their families, schools, workplaces, neighborhoods, cities, and states.
The study was based on records from 1979 to 2001 from about 500 hospitals across the United States. The study concluded that, on average, more than 200,000 people in the United States are hospitalized each year for respiratory and heart conditions illnesses associated with seasonal influenza virus infections. The number was lower in some years after that, but there was an overall upward trend. During the 1990s, the average number of people hospitalized was over 200,000 but individual seasons ranged from a low of 157,911 in 1990-91 to a high of 430,960 in 1997-98.
1 ALS is not contagious. 2  Although the life expectancy of a person with ALS averages about two to five years from the time of diagnosis, this disease is variable, and many people can live with the disease for five years and more. En espanol. 1  ESPAñOL als is not. 2  Contagious although the life expectancy of a person WITH als averages about two to five years from the time of, diagnosis this disease is, variable and many people can live with the disease for five years and. 3  More more than half of all people WITH als live more than three years after.  diagnosis
Because of the cost to the health care system, the burden of respiratory diseases also falls on society; it is paid for with higher health insurance rates, lost productivity, and tax dollars. Annual health care expenditures for asthma alone are estimated at $20.7 billion. 9. Back to Top. Approximately 13.6 million adults have been diagnosed with COPD, and an approximately equal number have not yet been diagnosed. 8 The burden of respiratory diseases affects individuals and their families, schools, workplaces, neighborhoods, cities, and states.