AncestryDNA is the genetic genealogy database service of myfamily.com (the owner of Ancestry.com). AncestryDNA offers an autosomal DNA test. The test is currently available in the United States, the United Kingdom, Ireland, Australia, New Zealand and Canada.
The maternal and paternal lineage tests give you specific information about your maternal and/or paternal line. Our AncestrybyDNA™ test, on the other hand, takes into account other contributions to your lineage, such as spouses along the maternal and paternal lines. Visit this page to learn more.
You have to compare your results with others for them to be useful. Both FTDNA and Ancestry sponsor groups or projects where people in the same haplogroup can exchange information and maybe even find an ancient connection. But Y-DNA and mtDNA are intended to check ancient bloodlines, 10,000-50,000 or so years ago. They are not generally useful by themselves for genealogy.
Y-DNA and mtDNA (male lineage and female lineage respectively), are entirely different. Your maternal line may have spent 10,000 years in Central Asia before moving on to what is now Germany, while your male ancestors may have come up through the Balkans to reach the same end point.
DNA Relatives does not use your haplogroup to find matches, and not all people who share a haplogroup are listed as relatives. Most of your relatives will actually fall outside of your haplogroup, because your haplogroup only tells you about direct paternal or maternal ancestors.
If you are male, we can take your sample and determine both maternal and paternal lineage. If you are female, your sample will only have maternal lineage information, since the paternal lineage information is found on the Y-chromosome. In this case, your full brother will need to contribute a DNA sample.
Ancestry DNA Testing is a recreational DNA test that gives you a general regional analysis of your ancestry. This test does not give you specific countries of origin, percentages, or tell you if you are of Native American descent.
If you have taken one of the Y-chromosome and mitochondrial DNA tests, you will still have access to your results until September 30, 2014. You can access them here or on the AncestryDNA homepage. Please click here for more information.