After the first rise, knock it down, cover and refrigerate. Make sure you use a big enough container because the dough will continue to rise. You might have to knock it down more than once. I find that it takes two to three hours sometimes for the dough to come to room temperature and start to rise again. Of course this probably depends on the amount of dough. I took a double batch of dough (over 8 cups flour) that I made Monday out of the fridge in stages yesterday-three hours apart. The first batch netted two loaves of bread and a pizza which we had for lunch.
I know this is a good thing for the dough, but the problem I usually have is that when I want to use the dough, I need it to get to room temperature first, and when I pull it out it usually doesn't do that for at least 2-3 hours. I let them stand 1-2 hours at room temperature before raising the proofing temperature to 28-30°C (if I need to speed it up). Otherwise there is a denser crumb at the bottom.
How do I defrost my frozen Fillo Dough? 1  Thaw and store in refrigerator (in box). 2  When you come home from the store, put Athens® Fillo Dough in the refrigerator instead of the freezer. 3  It can stay there for up to 30 days and be on hand and ready to use whenever you need it. 4  Thaw and use at room temperature. 5  Allow fillo to thaw in box at room 6  ... Car 1 Allow fillo to thaw in box at room temperature at least 2 hours. 2  Do not open until all other ingredients are assembled and you are ready to work. 3  Carefully unroll fillo sheets on a smooth, dry surface. 4  Remove any fillo you don’t need for your recipe, re-roll, wrap in plastic and refreeze up to 9 months.
He says a big old roast should come to room temp in about an hour. I tried it with a 3/4 steak and a really accurate thermocouple. It took just more than an hour for the center to come to room temp. A 1 1/2 steak took just over two hours for the center to come to room temp. A 4 1/2 pound pork shoulder 31/3 thick took, are you ready for this, 10 hours! After two hours it was only 49°F in the center, and after four hours it was only 56°F. 
I made a batch of dough two days ago, which I intended to let rise at room temperature for 18 hours. It went to 24 and then I still wasn't ready to move on so I put the dough in the fridge to stop/slow the rise. I know that a lot of people put dough in the fridge to stop the rise, but what really is the purpose? Would any harm have come if I left the dough to rise at room temp for another 12 hours? BTW, room temperature in my house currently ranges from about 60 to 70 degrees.
I find, with refrigerated dough, it takes about 1-1.5 hours to come to room temperature, and then you have to add the regular rising time (another hour or so). Of course this probably depends on the amount of dough. I took a double batch of dough (over 8 cups flour) that I made Monday out of the fridge in stages yesterday-three hours apart. The first batch netted two loaves of bread and a pizza which we had for lunch.
Another example, but over a longer period, is described at Reply 35 at http://www.pizzamaking.com/forum/index.php/topic,6758.msg60197.html#msg60197. As you can see from the above examples, it does not take a lot of yeast to allow a dough to rise at room temperature. The trick is getting the amount of yeast right. Another possibility, albeit one that is not all that easy to pull off, is to make a same day dough that is fermented at room temperature for a good part of the day. An example of how this can be done is described at Reply 30 at http://www.pizzamaking.com/forum/index.php/topic,6758.msg59762.html#msg59762.
Many Rhodes Recipes call for thawed dough. Rhodes rolls typically take 1 - 2 hours to thaw at room temperature (72 degrees F). Rhodes Bread takes 2 - 3 hours to thaw at room temperature. You can also thaw dough in the refrigerator. Rolls take 8 - 12 hours to thaw in the refrigerator
1 When you come home from the store, put Athens® Fillo Dough in the refrigerator instead of the freezer. 2  It can stay there for up to 30 days and be on hand and ready to use whenever you need it. 3  Thaw and use at room temperature. 4  Allow fillo to thaw in box at room temperature at least 2 hours. 1 Allow fillo to thaw in box at room temperature at least 2 hours. 2  Do not open until all other ingredients are assembled and you are ready to work. 3  Carefully unroll fillo sheets on a smooth, dry surface. 4  Remove any fillo you don’t need for your recipe, re-roll, wrap in plastic and refreeze up to 9 months.