Definition. Autosomal dominant is one of several ways that a trait or disorder can be passed down (inherited) through families. In an autosomal dominant disease, if you inherit the abnormal gene from only one parent, you can get the disease. Often, one of the parents may also have the disease. A single abnormal gene on one of the first 22 nonsex (autosomal) chromosomes from either parent can cause an autosomal disorder. Dominant inheritance means an abnormal gene from one parent can cause disease, even though the matching gene from the other parent is normal. The abnormal gene dominates.
Inheritance properties of Autosomal Dominant Genetic Diseases: Disease inherited from: Usually autosomal dominant diseases are inherited from one parent who has the disease. For a person to have the disease, one of the parents must have had the autosomal dominant disease.
3.2 Autosomal Dominant Inheritance. In autosomal dominant inheritance, only one copy of a disease allele is necessary for an individual to be susceptible to expressing the phenotype. With each pregnancy, there is a one in two (50%) chance the offspring will inherit the disease allele. As with autosomal dominant inheritance, the proportion of affected males should be equal to the proportion of affected females in a given population. Examples of diseases with autosomal recessive inheritance include sickle cell anemia and cystic fibrosis.
Father to daughter inheritance odds: Usually 50% if any parent has an autosomal dominant disease. Inheritance from one diseased parent odds: 50%. For one parent with an autosomal dominant disease, and an unaffected second parent, there is usually a 50% chance of passing the disease onto children. Disease inherited from: Usually autosomal dominant diseases are inherited from one parent who has the disease. For a person to have the disease, one of the parents must have had the
Autosomal dominance is a pattern of inheritance characteristic of some genetic diseases. Autosomal means that the gene in question is located on one of the numbered, or non-sex, chromosomes. Dominant means that a single copy of the disease-associated mutation is enough to cause the disease. This is in contrast to a recessive disorder, where two copies of the mutation are needed to cause the disease. Huntington's disease is a common example of an autosomal dominant genetic disorder
Inheritance Patterns. Inheritance odds for Autosomal Dominant Genetic Diseases: Overall odds of inheritance: Usually autosomal dominant diseases are inherited from one parent who has the disease. For a person to have the disease, one of the parents must have had the autosomal dominant disease. Disease inherited from
Autosomal dominant. One mutated copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient for a person to be affected by an autosomal dominant disorder. Each affected person usually has one affected parent (illustration). Autosomal dominant disorders tend to occur in every generation of an affected family.
Print. In an autosomal dominant disorder, the mutated gene is a dominant gene located on one of the nonsex chromosomes (autosomes). You need only one mutated gene to be affected by this type of disorder. 
Autosomal Dominant. A pattern of inheritance in which a child acquires a disease by receiving a normal gene from one parent and a defective gene from the other parent. PubMed Health Glossary. (Source: NIH-National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke). Related terms: Autosomal dominant inheritance
Print. To have an autosomal recessive disorder, you inherit two mutated genes, one from each parent. These disorders are usually passed on by two carriers. Their health is rarely affected, but they have one mutated gene (recessive gene) and one normal gene (dominant gene) for the condition. 