In the past, Medicaid only paid for long term care services that were provided in an institution, such as nursing facilities and group homes. The waiver program waives the requirement of an admission into an institution in order for Medicaid to pay for the needed Home and Community-Based Services (HCBS). 
Section 1915(c) of the Federal Social Security Act allows a state to operate Home and Community-Based Services (HCBS) waivers within its Medicaid program if certain requirements are met. Please see Section III of the DDD Waiver Manual for descriptions of the covered waiver services. The federal waiver requirements include: 1  The State must submit a request and receive approval from the federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) to operate a waiver.
Waivers. Waiver programs help people who are elderly or have disabilities and need help to live in their home or community instead of an institution such as a nursing home or ICF-MR. Each program offers several core services: 1  service coordination (help with managing care needs and services). The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) have issued regulations that define the settings in which it is permissible for states to pay for Medicaid Home and Community-Based Services (HCBS), otherwise known as waiver services.
Medicaid Waivers help provide services to people who would otherwise be in a nursing home or hospital to receive long-term care in the community. Although there are waivers for many conditions, our focus is towards waivers for people who have intellectual disabilities, developmental disabilities, and autism. Before you Move. If you are receiving Medicaid Waiver services, your waiver services will not transfer other states. You will still be eligible for Medicaid State Plan services after establishing residency, but waiver services do not transfer from state to state.
Which States Have Medicaid Waivers. Forty-four (44) states and the District of Columbia have received waivers to provide home-and community-based services to people with developmental disabilities (DD). Depending on each state's DD definition, these waivers may cover services to people with autism. Before you Move. If you are receiving Medicaid Waiver services, your waiver services will not transfer other states. You will still be eligible for Medicaid State Plan services after establishing residency, but waiver services do not transfer from state to state.
Adaptive Technologies: Devices and appliances that help the person with Developmental Disabilities to function more independently and safely. Back to List or Back to Top. People with Developmental Disabilities who are not covered by Medicaid can receive similar services by applying for a Medicaid waiver. Eligible persons and their families may apply for the following home and community-based services: 
The approval of Federal Medicaid Waiver programs allowed states to provide services to consumers in their homes and in their communities. DDSN consumers may be eligible for home and community-based Waiver services. Prior to 1991, the Federal Medicaid program paid for services to DDSN consumers with intellectual disability and related disabilities, traumatic brain injury and spinal cord injury and related disabilities only if that person lived in an institution.
Medicaid Transformation Waiver. HHSC has received federal approval of a waiver that allows the state to expand Medicaid managed care while preserving hospital funding, provides incentive payments for health care improvements and directs more funding to hospitals that serve large numbers of uninsured patients.
The waiver program provides an alternative to institutional residential services by offering a wide range of daily living, respite, vocational, employment, retirement, social, clinical, therapy and adaptive services and supports in the home and community in a variety of settings. 1  Information for Service Providers-DDA. 