Often served at festive occasions and family gatherings, lasagna is sometimes a simple noodle, cheese and sauce dish. This lasagna recipe is a more sophisticated version that includes a creamy mushroom bechamel and a hearty tomato infused meat sauce.
1 2 Construct the lasagna by layering 4 noodles over the sauce. 2  Top with another 2 cups Bolognese sauce and spread it evenly to the edges of the dish; cover with 1/4 (3 ounces) of the sliced provolone cheese. 3  Spread 1 cup of the bechamel béchamel sauce in a thin layer and top with/1 4 cup of the Grated-Parmigiano reggiano.  cheese
1 Spread 2 cups of the Bolognese sauce in a thin layer over the bottom of a 13-by-9-inch baking dish. 2  2 Construct the lasagna by layering 4 noodles over the sauce. 3  Top with another 2 cups Bolognese sauce and spread it evenly to the edges of the dish; cover with 1/4 (3 ounces) of the sliced provolone cheese.
In a 2 quart saucepan, melt the butter over medium heat. Add the flour and whisk until smooth, about 2 minutes. Always stirring, gradually add the milk and continue to whisk until the sauce is smooth and creamy. Simmer until it is thick enough to coat the back of a spoon. This will take approximately 10 minutes. Remove from heat and stir in nutmeg, 1/2 cup fontina, prosciutto and season with salt and white pepper.
1 Arrange a layer of eggplant in a greased 9x13 inch baking dish. 2  Cover eggplant with all of the meat mixture, and then sprinkle 1/2 cup of Parmesan cheese over the meat. 3  Cover with remaining eggplant, and sprinkle another 1/2 cup of cheese on top. 4  Pour the bechamel sauce over the top, and sprinkle with the nutmeg.
Pour the bechamel over the pasta noodles making sure to pour sauce down in to the corners as well. Sprinkle with remaining 1/2 cup of grated Parmesan cheese. Bake in 350 degree oven for approximately 45 minutes or until the top is a nice golden color. See instructions for this recipe with photos.
Directions. Preheat oven to 425 degrees F. In a 2 quart saucepan, melt the butter over medium heat. Add the flour and whisk until smooth, about 2 minutes. Always stirring, gradually add the milk and continue to whisk until the sauce is smooth and creamy. Simmer until it is thick enough to coat the back of a spoon. This will take approximately 10 minutes. Remove from heat and stir in nutmeg, 1/2 cup fontina, prosciutto and season with salt and white pepper.