A tributary is a small stream or body of water that flows into a larger body of water. Note that a tributary could also be a river, for example, the Missouri and Ohio rivers f … low into the Mississippi river.    a small river or stream. + 96 others found this useful. A tributary does not flow directly into a sea or ocean. Tributaries and t … he Main stem river serve to drain the surrounding drainage basin of its surface water and groundwater by leading the water out into an ocean or sea.
A tributary is a small stream or body of water that flows into a larger body of water. Note that a tributary could also be a river, for example, the Missouri and Ohio rivers f … low into the Mississippi river.    a small river or stream. + 96 others found this useful. 
The Ohio has many large tributary streams; and is itself tributary to the Mississippi. TRIB'UTARY, n. One that pays tribute or a stated sum to a conquering power, for the purpose of securing peace and protection, or as an acknowledgment of submission, or for the purchase of security. 
Familiarity information: TRIBUTARY used as a noun is very rare. • TRIBUTARY (adjective). The adjective TRIBUTARY has 3 senses: 1. of a stream; flowing into a larger stream. 2. paying tribute. 3. tending to bring about; being partly responsible for. Familiarity information: TRIBUTARY used as an adjective is uncommon.
A tributary is a stream or river that flows into and joins a main river. It does not flow directly into the sea. The place where the tributary and the main river meet is called a confluence. The origins of a tributary are called its source. This is the place where the water begins its journey towards the ocean or sea.
Defining Tributaries. A tributary is a river or stream that flows into a larger river or a lake. When you think about it, almost every river flows into another river or a lake, and most of the rest flow into an ocean! These smaller waterways are known as tributaries. You can think of them as paying 'tribute' to the larger river or lake, bringing it the precipitation, sediment, and nutrients that originated farther upstream.
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: tributary (Noun). A river that flows into a larger river or other body of water. tributary (Noun). A nation, state, or other entity that pays tribute. tributary (Adjective). Related to the paying of tribute. Origin: From tributarie, from tributarius, from tributum. Tributary (noun). a ruler or state that pays tribute, or a stated sum, to a conquering power, for the purpose of securing peace and protection, or as an acknowledgment of submission, or for the purchase of security
A tributary or affluent is a stream or river that flows into a main stem river or a lake. A tributary does not flow directly into a sea or ocean. Tributaries and the main stem river serve to drain the surrounding drainage basin of its surface water and groundwater by leading the water out into an ocean or sea. Tributary (noun). a ruler or state that pays tribute, or a stated sum, to a conquering power, for the purpose of securing peace and protection, or as an acknowledgment of submission, or for the purchase of security
Noun. 1. tributary-a branch that flows into the main stream. confluent, affluent, feeder. branch-a stream or river connected to a larger one. distributary-a branch of a river that flows away from the main stream and does not rejoin it. n. pl. trib·u·tar·ies. 1. A stream that flows into a larger stream or other body of water. 2. A ruler or nation that pays tribute. adj. 1. Making additions or yielding supplies; contributory. 2. Paid in tribute.
A tributary or affluent is a stream or river that flows into a larger stream or river main stem (or parent) river or a lake. A tributary does not flow directly into a sea or ocean. Tributaries and the main stem river serve to drain the surrounding drainage basin of its surface water and groundwater, leading the water out into an ocean. A confluence, where two or more bodies of water meet together, usually refers to the joining of tributaries. The opposite to a tributary is a distributary, a river or stream that branches off from and flows away from the main stream. Distributaries are most often found in river deltas