Pancreatitis. If you suffer from instant pain after eating a big meal or if your pain persists more than 6 hours, then you might have pancreatitis. This kind of pain usually starts in the upper abdomen and spreads to the side and the back, accompanied by nausea, racing heartbeat or fever. A really intense stomachache in the lower right side of your abdomen can be a symptom of appendicitis. This pain often gets worse after eating, and it can be accompanied by vomiting and mild fever. Seek medical attention immediately because it can be life threatening.
Recurrent stomach pain only after eating certain foods indicates intolerance or allergy. Pain that occurs a few hours after eating and temporarily improves when you eat can indicate a stomach ulcer. Food poisoning often occurs within hours of eating contaminated food. Stomach pain after eating can be dull, such as a feeling of fullness, or sharp as a stabbing pain. Simple overeating can cause dull abdominal pain, while a sharp pain after eating may indicate food poisoning or gastroenteritis.
Unexpected pains may also develop as a result of exercise, including pain in the stomach and abdomen. Stomach and abdominal pain after exercise can be quite intense and may be accompanied by other symptoms as well. This pain can typically be treated, and in most cases can be prevented as well. The pain may occur during exercise or may not begin until after you've finished exercising. Pain may be located in the stomach itself, within the intestines or even in the sides. The intensity and duration of the pain can vary as well, ranging from a dull ache or burning to strong cramps or sharp pains.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: there are 2 reasons in the way i see it you are either.. eating or drinking too much before you go workout, or your body isnt use to going at the speed and you get a stitch in your stomach. If this is so, then before you start going fast, take it at a slower speed until you body gets used to working itself so hard. :D hope this helps! Source(s): Report Abuse. I used to get cramps while exercising all the time, But now I always stretch my stomach muscles a lot beforehand. My front ab stretch: Lace you fingers, palms facing out. With your hands over your head and your arms straight, keep your balance and bend your back backwards to stretch your abs.
The location of your pain after eating also provides clues to the cause. Stomach and intestinal pain can affect the abdomen anywhere from the chest to the navel. Lower abdominal pain after eating more often indicates gastroenteritis or food poisoning, especially if accompanied by diarrhea, nausea or vomiting. Stomach pain after eating can be dull, such as a feeling of fullness, or sharp as a stabbing pain. Simple overeating can cause dull abdominal pain, while a sharp pain after eating may indicate food poisoning or gastroenteritis.
Find out the facts! The Truth: You should always eat something before exercising so your body has enough fuel to power through your workout. The rationale behind this widely accepted myth is that forgoing food before exercise will force your body to burn more fat during your workout. 
Stomach pain after eating can be triggered by foods that cause discomfort or due to a digestive disorder that makes it hard to break down food properly. A variety of causes can lead to stomach pain after you have eaten. Bothersome elements in the diet or a lack of adequate physical activity can lead to discomfort. This pain is especially prominent after eating, leading to cramps and tenderness on the lower left side of the stomach area. Gallstones-Gallstones occur when bile hardens in the gallbladder. These stones can be as small as grains of sand or as large as a golf ball.
Abdominal Pain. Stomach and abdominal pain associated with exercise can present itself in a number of different ways. The pain may occur during exercise or may not begin until after you've finished exercising. Pain may be located in the stomach itself, within the intestines or even in the sides. The intensity and duration of the pain can vary as well, ranging from a dull ache or burning to strong cramps or sharp pains.
Food Allergies. Many people experience stomach ache after eating because of food allergies. You can be allergic to a wide range of foods, including dairy products, starches, spices and even grains. Try eliminating different foods from your diet to see what you are allergic to and avoid eating it. A really intense stomachache in the lower right side of your abdomen can be a symptom of appendicitis. This pain often gets worse after eating, and it can be accompanied by vomiting and mild fever. Seek medical attention immediately because it can be life threatening.