Trauma Surgeon: Job Description & Career Requirements. Trauma surgeons require significant formal education. Learn about required training, job duties and certifications to see if this is the right career for you. View 10 Popular Schools ».
Essential Information. In the field of surgery, a career in trauma is one of the most intense and demanding. Education requirements for trauma surgeons include obtaining an undergraduate degree, followed by four years of medical school and several years of general surgery training.
Education and training. Formal education and training requirements for physicians are among the most demanding of any occupation-4 years of undergraduate school, 4 years of medical school, and 3 to 8 years of internship and residency, depending on the specialty selected.
Research what it takes to become a trauma surgeon. Learn about education, training and licensure requirements to find out if this is the career for you.
Trauma Surgeon Training Programs, Degrees and Education Requirements. Trauma surgeons generally work in Level I trauma centers, providing leadership to emergency medical teams and ensuring continuity of care for critically injured patients admitted to emergency departments.
Physicians and surgeons have demanding education and training requirements. Almost all physicians complete at least 4 years of undergraduate school, 4 years of medical school, and, depending on their specialty, 3 to 8 years in internship and residency programs.
The educational requirements for trauma surgeons to practice in the United States include completion of a bachelor's degree and medical degree (Doctor of Medicine or Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine), as well as hospital-or clinic-based training through a residency and fellowship program.
Aspiring trauma surgeons must first obtain a bachelor's degree in an area such as pre-medicine, biology or a related scientific discipline. These 4-year degree programs should provide the education base for students who seek to enter medical school.
Education Requirements. Prospective trauma surgeons must start by earning a bachelor degree in one of several fields, including biology, pre-medicine or other related area. These are four year programs intended to provide candidates with the necessary preparation before attending a medical school.