The top of each lung (called the apex) extends into the lowest part of the neck, just above the level of the first rib. The bottom, or base, of each lung extends down to the diaphragm, which is the major breathing-associated muscle that separates the chest from the abdominal cavity. Anatomy of the Respiratory System. The lungs are the body's major organs of breathing (respiration). The lungs are located on each side of the chest within the rib cage. They are separated by the heart and other contents of the mediastinum—the tissues and organs of the middle chest (e.g., large blood vessels, windpipe).
The two lungs and their pleural sacs are situated in the thoracic cavity (figs. 22-1 and 22-2). The pleura is a thin, glistening, slippery serous membrane, inflammation of which is called pleurisy. The pleura lines the thoracic wall and diaphragm, where it is known as the parietal pleura. It is reflected onto the lung, where it is called the visceral pleura.
NASAL PASSAGES. The uppermost portion of the human respiratory system, the nose is a hollow air passage that functions in breathing and in the sense of smell. The nasal cavity moistens and warms incoming air, while small hairs and mucus filter out harmful particles and microorganisms. The flow of air from outside of the body to the lungs begins with the nose, which is divided into the left and right nasal passages. The nasal passages are lined with a membrane composed primarily of one layer of flat, closely packed cells called epithelial cells.
Pleura of the Lungs. The pleura includes two thin layers of tissue that protect and cushion the lungs. The inner layer (visceral pleura) wraps around the lungs and is stuck so tightly to the lungs that it cannot be peeled off. The outer layer (parietal pleura) lines the inside of the chest wall. 
The lungs are a pair of spongy, air-filled organs located on either side of the chest (thorax). The trachea (windpipe) conducts inhaled air into the lungs through its tubular branches, called bronchi. The bronchi then divide into smaller and smaller branches (bronchioles), finally becoming microscopic. 1 Lung cancer: Cancer may affect almost any part of the lung. 2  Most lung cancer is caused by smoking. 3  Tuberculosis: A slowly progressive pneumonia caused by the bacteria Mycobacterium tuberculosis. 4  Chronic cough, fever, weight loss, and night sweats are common symptoms of
The cancer cells are abnormal lung cells. Sometimes, people will have cancer travel from another part of their body or metastasize to their lungs. This is called secondary lung cancer because the lungs are a secondary site compared to the original primary location of the cancer. 
Between the alveoli is a thin layer of cells called the interstitium, which contains blood vessels and cells that help support the alveoli. The lungs are covered by a thin tissue layer called the pleura. The same kind of thin tissue lines the inside of the chest cavity -- also called pleura. 1 Lung cancer: Cancer may affect almost any part of the lung. 2  Most lung cancer is caused by smoking. 3  Tuberculosis: A slowly progressive pneumonia caused by the bacteria Mycobacterium tuberculosis. 4  Chronic cough, fever, weight loss, and night sweats are common symptoms of
Superior vena cava. The lung consists of five lobes. The left lung has a superior and inferior lobe, while the right lung has superior, middle, and inferior lobes. Thin walls of tissue called fissures separate the different lobes. The superior lobes of each lung are the uppermost pieces, also called the upper lobes. Each lobe receives air from its own branch of the bronchial tree, called lobar (or secondary) bronchi. Within the lungs, these bronchi are divided into smaller tubes. The smallest of these tubes is called a bronchiole