The thyroid (THY-royd) gland, a small butterfly-shaped gland in the front of your neck, makes thyroid hormones. Thyroid hormones travel from the thyroid gland through the blood to all parts of the body, where they do their work. Sometimes the thyroid gland makes too much thyroid hormone, which is called hyperthyroidism. Think of your body as a car and your thyroid as the engine. An overactive thyroid makes your body idle too fast. Symptoms of overactive thyroid gland include. 1  Feeling nervous and irritable. 2  Having trouble concentrating.
The thyroid gland, or simply the thyroid /ˈθaɪrɔɪd/ , is one of the largest endocrine glands in the body, and consists of two connected lobes. It is found in the neck, below the laryngeal prominence (Adam's apple). Hyperthyroidism occurs when the gland produces excessive amounts of thyroid hormones, the most common cause being Graves' disease —an autoimmune disorder. In contrast, hypothyroidism is a state of insufficient thyroid hormone production. Worldwide, the most common cause is iodine deficiency.
Having thyroid hormone levels that are too high (overactive thyroid gland). Sometimes the thyroid gland makes too much thyroid hormone, which is called hyperthyroidism. Think of your body as a car and your thyroid as the engine. An overactive thyroid makes your body idle too fast. Symptoms of overactive thyroid gland include. 1  Feeling nervous and irritable. 2  Having trouble concentrating.
The thyroid gland controls how quickly the body uses energy, makes proteins, and controls the body's sensitivity to other hormones. It participates in these processes by producing thyroid hormones, the principal ones being thyroxine (T 4) and triiodothyronine (T 3), which is more active. Hyperthyroidism occurs when the gland produces excessive amounts of thyroid hormones, the most common cause being Graves' disease —an autoimmune disorder. In contrast, hypothyroidism is a state of insufficient thyroid hormone production. Worldwide, the most common cause is iodine deficiency.
Thyroid gland. The thyroid gland covers the windpipe from three sides. Two hormones of the thyroid gland, T3 (thyroxine) and T4 (triiodothyronine), help the body to produce and regulate the hormones adrenaline (also called epinephrine) and dopamine. Hormones are chemical substances that help control certain cells and organs. It needs the assistance of the pituitary gland, which creates thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH). As a result, a nonfunctional pituitary gland will eventually lead to thyroid-gland-related issues. TSH will either trigger the production of thyroxine or triiodothyronine.
The thyroid is a butterfly-shaped gland that sits low on the front of the neck. Your thyroid lies below your Adam’s apple, along the front of the windpipe. The thyroid has two side lobes, connected by a bridge (isthmus) in the middle. 1 Surgery, radiation, and hormone treatments may be used to treat thyroid cancer. 2  Thyroid nodule: A small abnormal mass or lump in the thyroid gland. 3  Thyroid nodules are extremely common. 4  Few are cancerous. 5  They may secrete excess hormones, causing hyperthyroidism, or cause no problems.
The amount of thyroid hormone made by your thyroid gland is adjusted by a gland in the brain called the pituitary. Another part of your brain, the hypothalamus, helps the pituitary. The hypothalamus sends information to the pituitary gland, the pituitary in turn controls the thyroid gland. It does this by releasing more thyroid-stimulating hormone (or TSH), which signals your thyroid to make more thyroid hormone. Your thyroid gland then makes and releases the hormone directly into your bloodstream. Your pituitary gland then senses that there is just the right amount of thyroid hormone in your body.
Background. Thyroid hormone is responsible for the regulating the metabolic rate of every cell in the body Since every cell in the body depends on its metabolism to perform its function, when the thyroid system is malfunctioning it can affect every system of the body. 
Because it affects virtually every organ in our bodies, the thyroid gland can be linked to modest changes in body weight and energy levels. Your thyroid can affect your weight. The thyroid gland is an endocrine gland located in the front of our necks. 
Nerves important for voice quality also pass through the thyroid. The thyroid secretes several hormones, collectively called thyroid hormones. The main hormone is thyroxine, also called T4. Thyroid hormones act throughout the body, influencing metabolism, growth and development, and body temperature. 1 Surgery, radiation, and hormone treatments may be used to treat thyroid cancer. 2  Thyroid nodule: A small abnormal mass or lump in the thyroid gland. 3  Thyroid nodules are extremely common. 4  Few are cancerous. 5  They may secrete excess hormones, causing hyperthyroidism, or cause no problems.