positive results of the Manifest Destiny was that America gained alot of land. They fought a war with Mexico during the 1800's called the Mexican War. It was a land dispute over Texas. The majority had voted to join America, but Mexico still wouldn't let them. The Americans won the war, gaining Texas, and forcing Mexico to sell much of their land. This was a big gain for America.
positive results of the Manifest Destiny was that America gained alot of land. They fought a war with Mexico during the 1800's called the Mexican War. It was a land dispute ov … er Texas. The majority had voted to join America, but Mexico still wouldn't let them. the negative result is more then half of the native population was destroyed. to the point it was genocide. the race of the native american people decreased. Loss a lifes and the stealing of land should without a doubt be a serious set-back for moral-high people.
What was the amount of land added to the U.S. as a result of Manifest Destiny? they received: Texas, California, Nevada, Utah, most of Arizona, some of New Mexico, Colorado and Wyoming. the negative result is more then half of the native population was destroyed. to the point it was genocide. the race of the native american people decreased. Loss a lifes and the stealing of land should without a doubt be a serious set-back for moral-high people.
Manifest Destiny was the belief that the United States needed to expand westward strethcing from Atlantic to Pacific Ocean. The idea of Manifest Destiny changed the United States in the way that it let Americans expand west. Manifest Destiny is the belief that the people of the United States have the right to settle from the Atlantic to the Pacific Ocean. Manifest Destiny changed the United States because it made american’s believe that taking land form the Native Americans was okay, when it is not because they have a right to own land too.
Newspaper editor John O'Sullivan coined the term Manifest Destiny in 1845 to describe the essence of this mindset, which was a rhetorical tone. It was used by Democrats in the 1840s to justify the war with Mexico and it was also used to divide half of Oregon with the United Kingdom. But Manifest Destiny always limped along because of its internal limitations and the issue of slavery, says Merk. It never became a national priority. And that claim is by the right of our manifest destiny to overspread and to possess the whole of the continent which Providence has given us for the development of the great experiment of liberty and federated self-government entrusted to us. We have it in our power to begin the world over again.
The term of ‘Manifest Destiny’ first appeared in a newspaper article on the annexation of Texas in edition from July/August of the United States Magazine and Democratic Review in 1845. 
In the 1840s, America was struck with the idea of manifest destiny: the belief that the country should span from the Atlantic to the Pacific Ocean. 
Other applications of the notion of manifest destiny were soon found. It was used to promote the annexations of Mexican territory acquired in the Mexican-American War, of territory in Oregon gained through negotiations with the British, and the seizure (not carried out) of Cuba from the Spanish during the 1850's. 
Introduction. Manifest Destiny is a term for the attitude prevalent during the 19th century period of American expansion that the United States not only could, but was destined to, stretch from coast to coast. This attitude helped fuel western settlement, Native American removal and war with Mexico. It was, O’Sullivan claimed, ‘our manifest destiny to overspread the continent allotted by Providence for the free development of our yearly multiplying millions.’ The term and the concept were taken up by those desiring to secure Oregon Territory, California, Mexican land in the Southwest, and, in the 1850s, Cuba.