While LAX is the busiest airport in the Greater Los Angeles Area, other airports, including Bob Hope Airport, John Wayne Airport, Long Beach Airport, and LA/Ontario International Airport, also serve the region. It is also notable for being one of few U.S. airports with four parallel runways. It is most often referred to by its IATA airport code LAX, with the letters pronounced individually. LAX is located in southwestern Los Angeles along the Pacific Ocean in the neighborhood of Westchester, 16 miles (26 km) from Downtown Los Angeles.
There are 9 operating airline terminals At LAX Airport, Terminals 1 to 8 and Tom Bradley International Terminal. LAX Airport Terminals Map. Sydney to LA, arrival is at Terminal B which I realise is also the Tom Bradley terminal on the map. And then taking off at Terminal 3 for LA to New York.
The Terminal 2 project follows on the acclaimed renovation of Tom Bradley International Terminal (TBIT), which debuted to the public in 2013 and is the centerpiece of LAX’s multibillion-dollar modernization program. TBIT features 58 premier dining and luxury retail shops, world-class amenities and cutting-edge design. Westfield is steadily transforming the LAX traveler experience through luxury retail, sophisticated and casual dining, and world-class design at Terminals 1, 2, 3, 6 and Tom Bradley International Terminal.
LAX Airport Terminal 5. Airlines that operate from LAX Airport Terminal 5. LAX Airport Terminal 5 Map. There are currently no posts in this category. 
Terminal 5 at LAX Airport serves Delta Airlines only-with gates 50B -59. The Departures Level offers a food court with 4 restaurants, and 5 other food & drink ouotlets, a DFS duty-free shop, 5 other shops; ICE Currency exchange & nursing room. Total completion is scheduled for 2016. Terminal 3 at LAX Airport serves Allegiant, Bizair, Frontier, JetBlue, Spirit, Virgin America & Virgin Australia (departures) - with gates 30 right after security check and gates 31A through 38 surrounding the gate area.
Terminals 4, 5, 6 & 7 are connected by a tunnel reached by escalators at their baggage claim level. Terminals 8 & 1 are on opposite sides of their respective garages; you can either use the LAX bus A running from T8 to T1 (one stop) or walk between the two parking structures to the other side. Total completion is scheduled for 2016. Terminal 3 at LAX Airport serves Allegiant, Bizair, Frontier, JetBlue, Spirit, Virgin America & Virgin Australia (departures) - with gates 30 right after security check and gates 31A through 38 surrounding the gate area.
New passport scanners may have you flying through. Much the way some supermarket shoppers go through self-service checkout lines, foreign travelers arriving at Los Angeles International Airport on Wednesday began passing through automated kiosks that scanned their passports and customs information. The kiosks, which cost $36,000 each, process passport information and items purchased abroad that would have to be declared to customs officials on written forms filled out by passengers. It's very nice, Manteca resident Pam Shelton said Wednesday as she arrived at LAX from Australia.
Al Seib / Los Angeles Times. Passengers at the Tom Bradley International Terminal at LAX use the new automated passport-control kiosks that can read passports and customs declarations to expedite entry. (Al Seib / Los Angeles Times). The kiosks, which cost $36,000 each, process passport information and items purchased abroad that would have to be declared to customs officials on written forms filled out by passengers. It's very nice, Manteca resident Pam Shelton said Wednesday as she arrived at LAX from Australia.
We have book a International flight from San Francisco via Sky West to LAX terminal 1, and connecting flight within 2 hours to International Terminal ,on Korean Airlines to Seoul Korea. Sydney to LA, arrival is at Terminal B which I realise is also the Tom Bradley terminal on the map. And then taking off at Terminal 3 for LA to New York.
Terminal 6 at LAX Airport serves Alaska, Copa Panama; Great Lakes, United (United Premier, First & Business class only) and US Airways-with gates 60-69B. The Departures Level houses 4 food drink outlets, Hudson News & DFS Duty-free and ICE currency exchange. Total completion is scheduled for 2016. Terminal 3 at LAX Airport serves Allegiant, Bizair, Frontier, JetBlue, Spirit, Virgin America & Virgin Australia (departures) - with gates 30 right after security check and gates 31A through 38 surrounding the gate area.