Crayfish do take up oxygen from the water through their exoskeleton by means of gills. There have been experiments performed by Ellis and Morris to observe how the pH effected oxygen consumption and uptake and metabolic activity in the Australian crayfish Cherax destructor. Bethany Grant. Crayfish also called Crawfish or Crawdad, are crustaceans in which most of them live in freshwater and a few live in brackish or salt water. Some live in burrows on land close to a source of water, all crayfish have the ability to borrow (Hyman 1996).
A gill (/ɡɪl/) is a respiratory organ found in many aquatic organisms that extracts dissolved oxygen from water and excretes carbon dioxide. The gills of some species, such as hermit crabs, have adapted to allow respiration on land provided they are kept moist. Gills usually consist of thin filaments of tissue, branches, or slender, tufted processes that have a highly folded surface to increase surface area. A high surface area is crucial to the gas exchange of aquatic organisms, as water contains only a small fraction of the dissolved oxygen that air does.
Earthworm. The earthworms' respiratory system is very different compared to other mammals, but the purpose is the same, get the oxygen and take out the carbon dioxide. Earthworms do not have lungs or gills like other mammals, but instead they breathe by using their moist skin. By diffusing air through their skin, worms are able to breathe like every other mammal. Their moist skin is need, so that diffusion can happen without a problem. In the crayfish, there is a pocket like thing that lets the crayfish store its water so that when it walks on land and still breath because it needs water in order to survive. Frog. There are three main components to a frog's respiratory system. The First is the lungs, for pulmonary respiration.
Crayfish are aquatic crustaceans and have gills. 2 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  From Water Dogs to Salamanders Water dogs are one of the more unusual members of the reptile family because they are actually an aquatic animal. The gills are the equivalent of our lungs. Basically they absorb Oxygen from the water flowing over them and at the … same time they remove Carbondioxide and other nasties they don't need or want from the blood stream.
Crayfish. Bethany Grant. Crayfish also called Crawfish or Crawdad, are crustaceans in which most of them live in freshwater and a few live in brackish or salt water. Some live in burrows on land close to a source of water, all crayfish have the ability to borrow (Hyman 1996). The freshwater crayfish live in lakes and rivers
The Crayfish a very unique way of breathing. The gills of the crayfish are located on the outside of the body between the crayfish body wall and carapace. If you were to detach one of the crayfishes walking legs, you would observe that the crayfish's gill is attached to its walking leg. The crayfish's gills are attached to the walking legs, so as it walks, it can breath. A crayfish has a pocket where water is stored.
The same as the gills in any other aquatic creature. The gills are the equivalent of our lungs. Basically they absorb Oxygen from the water flowing over them and at the … same time they remove Carbondioxide and other nasties they don't need or want from the blood stream. 7 people found this useful. 
Two examples are fish and humans. Fish live in the water and use gills to breath. Humans, on the other hand, live on land and breath air through their lungs. A gill is a part of the body found in many aquatic animals. It is a respiration organ whose function is to remove oxygen from water for use by the animals body and excrete carbon dioxide, which is a waste product. In fish, the gills are thin, leafy structures on each side of its body just behind the head.
The molecules of oxygen and carbon dioxide are exchanges, this process changes oxygen to carbon dioxide. Our respiratory system is responsible to clean out the bacteria or dust we breath in. Every living organism has that system, but in different shape and form, like how some have lungs while others have gills. In the crayfish, there is a pocket like thing that lets the crayfish store its water so that when it walks on land and still breath because it needs water in order to survive. Frog. There are three main components to a frog's respiratory system. The First is the lungs, for pulmonary respiration.
Earthworms, and some amphibians (some amphibians do not have lungs) are a good example (note that their skin is always moist). [Reptiles are not “slimy”, but many amphibians are.]2) gills [FIG. 22.2B, p. 455] :- used by many aquatic organisms, and just a few terrestrial ones. Thus, respiratory organs have developed.- Many different kinds:- skin-gills-trachea-lungs-others (e.g. book lungs)- All share the characteristic that the surface where gas exchange takes place is moist.