DESIGNATION AS PETTY MISDEMEANOR BY SENTENCE IMPOSED. A conviction is deemed to be for a petty misdemeanor as defined by. Rule 23.01 if the sentence imposed is within the limits provided by that. rule for a petty misdemeanor. MINNESOTA STATUTES § 609.02, subd.
In Minnesota, a common misdemeanor is punishable by a jail term up to 90 days in jail and a maximum fine of $1000. However, in some exceptional cases, the jail term could reach up to 1 year but not more than that.
The plaintiff is the State of Idaho, who is represented by a county prosecutor (if you are charged with committing a misdemeanor outside a city), or a city prosecutor (if you are charged with committing a misdemeanor within a city). The person charged with a crime is called the defendant.
Just because a petty misdemeanor does not show up in a criminal record does not mean it may not haunt you if you switch jobs. The reason is that employers conduct background checks, and my understanding is that they can go really deep into a background check.
Pursuant to Rule 23.02 of the Minnesota Rules of Criminal Procedure, when the sentence, as imposed, is within petty misdemeanor limits as set forth in M. S. § 609.02, subd. 4a, the conviction shall be deemed a conviction for a petty misdemeanor only. RULE 23.01. DEFINITION OF PETTY MISDEMEANOR. As used in these rules, petty misdemeanor means a misdemeanor offense punishable only by fine of not more than $300 or such other dollar amount as is established by Minn. Stat. 609.02 subd. 4a or other statute as the maximum fine for a petty misdemeanor.
“Petty theft with a prior” can be charged either as a misdemeanor or felony offense. In other words, it is a “wobbler” offense. Whether it is charged as one or the other depends on the facts of the case and the defendant’s criminal history.
If you are convicted of a “petty theft with a prior,” and it is charged as a felony, you may be sentenced for up to 3 years in state prison. An experienced criminal defense attorney can help you assert any applicable defenses that may lower your charges.