Yes, a person is contagious during the rotavirus incubation period. Infected people are also contagious while experiencing rotavirus symptoms. Once the diarrhea has ended, a person is no longer contagious. 
About RotaTeq. Rotavirus is an extremely common virus that is easy to catch from others, and it can be serious. Rotavirus is a leading cause of severe diarrhea among infants and young children. It’s an extremely common and contagious virus that can be serious. RotaTeq is a vaccine that can help protect babies against common types of rotavirus. Rotavirus is a leading cause of severe diarrhea in infants. IMPORTANT SAFETY INFORMATION. 1  RotaTeq may not fully protect all children who get the vaccine. 
Rotavirus is a contagious virus that can cause gastroenteritis (inflammation of the stomach and intestines). Symptoms include severe watery diarrhea, often with vomiting, fever, and abdominal pain. Infants and young children are most likely to get rotavirus disease. They can become severely dehydrated and need to be hospitalized and can even die.
Introduction to rotavirus: Rotavirus is extremely contagious. Day cares, preschools, and homes with young children are invisible forests of rotavirus. The living, spreading virus remains active on human hands for at least 4 hours, on hard dry surfaces for 10 days, and on wet areas for weeks! 
Transmission of Rotavirus from Person to Person. Rotavirus is considered to be contagious between people. Generally the infectious agent may be transmitted by saliva, air, cough, fecal-oral route, surfaces, blood, needles, blood transfusions, sexual contact, mother to fetus, etc. Rotavirus, although infectious, is not a genetic disease. It is not caused by a defective or abnormal gene. The contagious disease, Rotavirus, can be transmitted: 1  from person to person by saliva, air, coughing, contact, surfaces, fecal-oral route, etc. Contagion and contagiousness refers to how easily the spread of Rotavirus is possible from one person to another. Other words for contagion include infection, infectiousness, transmission or transmissability. Contagiousness has nothing to do with genetics or inheriting diseases from parents.
Contamination of hands or surfaces with the stool of an infected person and then touching the mouth is the main method of spread. Rotavirus infection is contagious (can be spread to other people) from the time before diarrhea develops until up to 10 days after symptoms have disappeared. There is no specific treatment for rotavirus. For people with healthy immune systems, rotavirus infection of the bowel (gastroenteritis) is a self-limited illness, lasting for only a few days. The treatment consists of increased fluid intake (oral rehydration) to prevent dehydration.
Rotavirus is very contagious, spreading easily from children who are already infected to other children and sometimes adults. Large amounts of rotavirus are shed in the stool of infected people and the virus can be easily spread via contaminated hands and objects, such as toys. Can you get rotavirus more than once? A person may develop rotavirus disease more than once because there are many different rotavirus types, but second infections tend to be less severe than the first infections. After a single natural infec-tion, 40% of children are protected against a sub-sequent rotavirus illness.
Rotavirus is a highly contagious virus that infects nearly all children by their fifth birthday. It is often accompanied by fever, vomiting as well as diarrhea. Rotavirus is not the only cause of severe diarrhea, but it is one of the most common and serious. 
Rotavirus vaccine is very effective against rotavirus disease. Studies show the vaccine to be highly effec-tive (85% to 98%) against severe rotavirus disease and effective against rotavirus disease of any severity (74% to 87%) through approximately the first rota-virus season after vaccination. Can you get rotavirus more than once? A person may develop rotavirus disease more than once because there are many different rotavirus types, but second infections tend to be less severe than the first infections. After a single natural infec-tion, 40% of children are protected against a sub-sequent rotavirus illness.
Rotavirus is the most common cause of severe diarrhoea among infants and young children. It is a genus of double-stranded RNA virus in the family Reoviridae. 