This week's featured species: Rosewood lumber is harvested from a handful of trees in the Dalbergia genus, all of which emit a sweet, rose-like scent when cut or sanded. The wood of these trees is prized throughout the world for its remarkable coloration and density. 
Rosewood oil, used in perfume, is extracted from the wood of Aniba rosaeodora, which is not related to the rosewoods used for lumber. In general, world stocks are poor through overexploitation. Some species become canopy trees (up to 30 m high), and large pieces can occasionally be found in the trade. The pre-eminent rosewood appreciated in the Western world is the wood of Dalbergia nigra which is now a CITES-listed endangered species. It is best known as Brazilian Rosewood, but also as Bahia Rosewood.
Rosewood is a luxurious and rare type of wood characterized by its rich brown to purple hue and hardness. While many species of trees are loosely termed rosewood, in actuality only a few are genuine rosewood trees. Rosewood lumber is highly prized and furniture crafted from the timber typically costs a premium. 
Definition of ROSEWOOD for Kids. : a reddish or purplish wood streaked with black that is used especially for making furniture and musical instruments. : any of various tropical trees (especially genus Dalbergia) yielding valuable cabinet woods of a usually dark red or purplish color streaked and variegated with black; also: the wood. See rosewood defined for English-language learners. See rosewood defined for kids.
Full Definition of ROSEWOOD. : any of various tropical trees (especially genus Dalbergia) yielding valuable cabinet woods of a usually dark red or purplish color streaked and variegated with black; also: the wood. See rosewood defined for English-language learners. See rosewood defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT
Rosewood is a characteristically dark, highly grained wood from trees in the genera Tipuana, Pterocarpus, or Dalbergia. Trees from other species may also be sold with this name, since this wood has been traditionally prized for fine woodworking and musical instruments for centuries. 
Rosewood, Pennsylvania is a fictional town in the book and TV series in Pretty Little Liars. It is based off of the real town called Rosemont, PA. Rosewood is located in Pennsylvania, approximately 20 miles outside Philadelphia, is also not far from Rosewood, the two cities Brookhaven and Ravenswood. Right outside of Rosewood is Darkette County where Radley Sanitarium is located
The Rosewood incident was an episode of racial cleansing that took place during January 1–7, 1923, in rural Levy County, Florida. At least six blacks and two whites were killed in a week-long burst of mob violence including shootings, torture and serial arson. Events similar to the Rosewood violence occurred periodically during the early 20th century in the United States, including a rampage 90 miles from Rosewood at Perry, Florida, in December 1922. Florida was said to have the nation's highest number of lynchings in proportion to the size of its black population.
It is the hometown of the Liars in the series. Rosewood may be a small town, but it has its own daily newspaper associated with it: The Rosewood Observer. Rosewood is also home to a local community college, Hollis College. Most of the residents seem to be of middle to upper class income range in wages. It is based off of the real town called Rosemont, PA. Rosewood is located in Pennsylvania, approximately 20 miles outside Philadelphia, is also not far from Rosewood, the two cities Brookhaven and Ravenswood.
Rosewood refers to any of a number of richly hued timbers, often brownish with darker veining but found in many different hues. The pre-eminent rosewood appreciated in the Western world is the wood of Dalbergia nigra which is now a CITES-listed endangered species. It is best known as Brazilian Rosewood, but also as Bahia Rosewood.