Figure 2.2: Neurons transmit information to other neurons. Information passes from the axon of the presynaptic neuron to the dendrites of the postsynaptic neuron. Figure 2.3: The synapse is the site where chemical signals pass between neurons. The neuron has processes called dendrites that receive signals and an axon that transmits signals to another neuron. The cell body, also called the soma, is the metabolic center of the neuron. The nucleus is located in the cell body, and most of the cell’s protein synthesis occurs in the cell body.
Information flows between the blue neurons through electrical synapses. Information flows from yellow neuron A, through blue neuron B, to pink neuron C via chemical synapses. The following animation illustrates the difference between these two kinds of synapses. This signal is then propagated along the axon (and not, say, back to its dendrites) until it reaches its axon terminals. An action potential travels along the axon quickly, moving at rates up to 150 meters (or roughly 500 feet) per second. Conduction ends at the
The presynaptic neuron is the neuron whose axon forms a synapse with the dendrite of another neuron. The presynaptic neuron sends out information. The postsynaptic neuron is the neuron whose dendrite forms a synapse with the axon of the presynaptic neuron. The postsynaptic neuron receives information. Communication between neurons is the foundation for brain function. Understanding how neurotransmission occurs is crucial to understanding how the brain processes and integrates information. Interruption of neural communication causes changes in cognitive processes and behavior.
Neural communication occurs in two ways: communication within a neuron and communication between two neurons. What is the process of communication within a neuron (from the moment the dendrite receives a signal)? 
The purpose of the nervous system is to transfer information from the PNS to the CNS, process the information in the CNS, and send back information to the PNS. This transfer of information from the external environment, through neurons, and back again to the external environment is known as neuronal signaling. A summary of neuronal signaling: Before a neuron receives a signal, it is in a resting state Neurons receive signals in two forms: Chemical changes. This is done via neurotransmitters (see Synaptic Transmission below) or chemical elements in the environment (e.g., olfactory receptors) Physical changes. 
Communication between neurons (with a few exceptions in mammals) is a chemical process. When the neuron is stimulated, the electrical signal (action potential) travels down the axon to the axon terminals. When the electrical signal reaches the end of the axon, it triggers a series of chemical changes in the axon terminal. The neuron has processes called dendrites that receive signals and an axon that transmits signals to another neuron. The cell body, also called the soma, is the metabolic center of the neuron. The nucleus is located in the cell body, and most of the cell’s protein synthesis occurs in the cell body.
Electrical signals carry information within a single neuron. Communication between neurons (with a few exceptions in mammals) is a chemical process. When the neuron is stimulated, the electrical signal (action potential) travels down the axon to the axon terminals. Communication between neurons is the foundation for brain function. Understanding how neurotransmission occurs is crucial to understanding how the brain processes and integrates information. Interruption of neural communication causes changes in cognitive processes and behavior.
Incoming signals from other neurons are (typically) received through its dendrites. The outgoing signal to other neurons flows along its axon. A neuron may have many thousands of dendrites, but it will have only one axon. The fourth distinct part of a neuron lies at the end of the axon, the axon terminals. These are the structures that contain neurotransmitters. This signal is then propagated along the axon (and not, say, back to its dendrites) until it reaches its axon terminals. An action potential travels along the axon quickly, moving at rates up to 150 meters (or roughly 500 feet) per second. Conduction ends at
Communication between neurons. Benoit Zuber. Communication between neurons, or nerve cells, is the cellular basis for thinking, decision making, and control of muscular movements. Neurons are cells with a particular shape: they possess two types of long ramification, called the axon and the dendrites. The axon of one neuron is in contact with the dendrites of other neurons. These contacts are termed synapse