Sepsis is a serious medical condition caused by an overwhelming immune response to infection. Chemicals released into the blood to fight infection trigger widespread inflammation. Inflammation may result in organ damage. Blood clotting during sepsis reduces blood flow to limbs and internal organs, depriving them of nutrients and oxygen. In severe cases, one or more organs fail. In the worst cases, infection leads to a life-threatening drop in blood pressure, called septic shock.
Definition of Sepsis. Sepsis is the body's overwhelming and life-threatening response to infection which can lead to tissue damage, organ failure, and death. Learn more about the symptoms of sepsis, which kills 258,000 Americans each year. 
Sepsis Overview. Sepsis is a condition in which the body is fighting a severe infection that has spread via the bloodstream. If a patient becomes septic, they will likely have low blood pressure leading to poor circulation and lack of perfusion of vital tissues and organs.
Sepsis is a life-threatening illness caused by your body’s response to an infection. Your immune system protects you from many illnesses and infections, but it’s also possible for it to go into overdrive in response to an infection. Sepsis develops when the chemicals the immune system releases into the bloodstream to fight an infection cause inflammation throughout the entire body instead.
Sepsis is a common and potentially life-threatening condition triggered by an infection. In sepsis, the body’s immune system goes into overdrive, setting off a series of reactions including widespread inflammation, swelling and blood clotting. Some people with severe sepsis and most people with septic shock require admission to an intensive care unit (ICU) , where the body’s organs can be supported while the infection is treated. As a result of problems with vital organs, people with severe sepsis are likely to be very ill and the condition can be fatal.
Sepsis is caused by an immune response triggered by an infection. The infection is most commonly by bacteria, but can also be by fungi, viruses, or parasites. Common locations for the primary infection include: lungs, brain, urinary tract, skin, and abdominal organs. Sepsis (/ˈsɛpsɨs/) is a whole-body inflammatory response to an infection. Common signs and symptoms include fever, increased heart rate, increased breathing rate, and confusion
Any type of infection that is anywhere in your body can cause sepsis, including infections of the skin, lungs (such as pneumonia), urinary tract, abdomen (such as appendicitis), or other part of the body. An infection occurs when germs enter a person’s body and multiply, causing illness, and organ and tissue damage. Since sepsis is the result of an infection, symptoms can include infection signs (diarrhea, vomiting, sore throat, etc.), as well as ANY of the symptoms below: S—Shivering, fever, or very cold. E—Extreme pain or general discomfort (worst ever). P—Pale or discolored skin.
By Dr Ananya Mandal, MD. Sepsis or septicaemia is a life-threatening illness that can occur when the whole body reacts to an infection. It leads to a serious overdrive of the body’s immune system and leads to a series of reactions that can lead to widespread inflammation and blood clotting. Septicaemia or sepsis is defined as the presence of numerous bacteria in the blood, which are actively dividing.
Topic Overview. Sepsis is an extreme immune system response to an infection that has spread throughout the blood and tissues. Severe sepsis, also called septic shock, often causes extremely low blood pressure, which limits blood flow to the body and can result in organ failure and death. 