[ 2 syll. ma-xim, max-im ] The baby boy name Maxim is pronounced as Mah-KS-IY M †. Maxim is used chiefly in the English, German, Russian, Czech, and French languages, and its origin is Latin. Maxim has 20 variants that are used in English and other languages. Variants used in English include Macimilian, Maksym, Mancho, Maxemilian, Maxemilion, Maxie, Maximilianus, Maximillano, Maximillian, Maximino, Maximus, and Maxymilian.
The name Maxim is of Russian origin, and it means Greatest . It's a name commonly given to boys. The highest recorded use of the name Maxim was in 2012 with a total of 345 babies. According to the 1992 U.S. Social Security Administration data, the name Maxim is not a popular baby boy's name in New York.
Russian Meaning: The name Maxim is a Russian baby name. In Russian the meaning of the name Maxim is: The greatest. American Meaning: The name Maxim is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Maxim is: The greatest. SoulUrge Number: 1. Expression Number: 6. People with this name have a deep inner desire to use their abilities in leadership, and to have personal independence.
Hello, Guest. Although often connected to the men's magazine title, Maxim is a chic and powerful name for a little boy. It proving moderately popular too, having been in the Top 1000 in the US for 14 years and reaching its highest rank ever in 2014 (#716). 
Look up Maxim in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. Maxim (Cyrillic: максим), sometimes romanized as Maksim, Maksym or Maksum, is a male first name of Roman origin which is relatively common in Slavic-speaking countries, mainly in Belarus, Russia, and Ukraine. From March 16, 2005 to August 16, 2005, 1,087 boys were named Maxim, behind Alexander at 1,390. The name is derived from the Latin family name Maximus, meaning the greatest. Maxim is also a less well-known surname.
Maxim is an uncommon given name for men but a very popular surname for both adults and children (#17719 out of 150436, Top 12%). (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the birth name popularity of Maxim for boys. Maxim's root is Latin, and Maxim means greatest. Maxim is a version of Maximilian (Latin). Maxim is also a variant of Maximus (Latin): Roman family name derived from maximus. Kreatif forms: Malxim, Maximmi, Mixim.
Maxim is a fairly popular baby name for boys. The name's popularity has been growing since the 1990s; before that, it was of infrequent use only. Its usage peaked modestly in 2012 with 0.017% of baby boys being given the name Maxim. Maxim has 20 variants that are used in English and other languages. Variants used in English include Macimilian, Maksym, Mancho, Maxemilian, Maxemilion, Maxie, Maximilianus, Maximillano, Maximillian, Maximino, Maximus, and Maxymilian.
Maxim /max-im/ [2 sylls.] as a name for boys. Maxim's root is Latin, and Maxim means greatest. Maxim is a version of Maximilian (Latin). Maxim is also a variant of Maximus (Latin): Roman family name derived from maximus. Kreatif forms: Malxim, Maximmi, Mixim.
Maxim is a variant of the name Maximilian (English and German) in the Czech and French languages. The name Maxima (English and Spanish) is the female form of Maxim. Maxim has 20 variants that are used in English and other languages. Variants used in English include Macimilian, Maksym, Mancho, Maxemilian, Maxemilion, Maxie, Maximilianus, Maximillano, Maximillian, Maximino, Maximus, and Maxymilian.
According to the register of the General Directorate of Moscow, Maxim was the second most popular male name for children born in Moscow. From March 16, 2005 to August 16, 2005, 1,087 boys were named Maxim, behind Alexander at 1,390. The name is derived from the Latin family name Maximus, meaning the greatest. Maxim is also a less well-known surname.