Cedar mulch is one of the organic mulches that has many advantages to crops besides maintaining a level moisture content in the soil. Cedar mulch is produced from the bark of an evergreen tree called cedar. It is also produced from by-products such as remaining pieces of roofs and shingles. These are ground to a desired size and may be dyed for a uniform color.Most mulching material from this tree is chipped or shredded. It is one of the most expensive mulching materials. Cedar mulch is spread in thick layers to prevent weeds from accessing sunlight. This maintains the health of the plants by eliminating competition for nutrients with weeds.
Recent research has found that the mulch from cedar trees does no harm to plants, as previously thought. Among organic mulches used for gardening, cedar has the worst reputation. Its detractors say it kills plants and inhibits seed germination.
Comments. Submit. Cedar mulch is made of shredded cedar trees, and is spread around the base of plants and trees. Cedar trees are numerous in the U.S.; in some places, they are classified as an invasive pest that consumes large amounts of water and competes with native vegetation. Most mulch is made from the eastern red cedar tree. There are many benefits of using cedar mulch in your garden or landscaping. Cedar mulch prevents wide fluctuations in soil moisture levels so plants enjoy an evenly-moist environment where the roots can spread as needed. Using cedar mulch greatly reduces the amount of water needed for plants to thrive.
Sour Mulches. Cedar mulch, like other hardwood mulches, can develop something called sour or toxic mulch. Sour mulch occurs during the manufacturing and storing processes, when the mulch does not receive enough oxygen and develops pockets of acetic acid. Among organic mulches used for gardening, cedar has the worst reputation. Its detractors say it kills plants and inhibits seed germination.
2. Pull the cedar mulch back 6 inches from the stems of any vegetable plant, as mulch in contact with vegetable plant stems can trap moisture against the plant and leave it vulnerable to rot. 
Cedar mulch is the most expensive wood mulch, and with good reason. It decomposes slowly, smells good and may even have some insect repellent qualities due to the oil it releases. Cedar mulch is attractive and heavy enough that only very heavy winds will move it. Cedar mulch can be spread as a 1- or 2-inch layer over garden soil directly around vegetables. It is more often used, though, as mulch for paths between raised beds.
Most vegetables require a lot of nitrogen to grow, so applying fresh cedar mulch to young plants might slow growth. Cedar mulch doesn't decompose quickly enough to be considered a good soil amendment and it must be raked and removed every fall from vegetable beds in anticipation of spring planting. Additionally, cedar mulch planted too closely to young plants might suffocate them. Cedar mulch can be spread as a 1- or 2-inch layer over garden soil directly around vegetables. It is more often used, though, as mulch for paths between raised beds.
As the cedar eventually decomposes, it adds nutrients to the soil. Cedar mulch from Thuja plicata, hardy in U.S. Department of Agriculture plant hardiness zones 6 through 8, releases a chemical called thujaplicin, which inhibits bacteria and fungus growth that could harm the surrounding plants. Among organic mulches used for gardening, cedar has the worst reputation. Its detractors say it kills plants and inhibits seed germination.
For these plants, use a mulch that releases acid, such as pine straw, pine bark (which is also high in aluminum), true cypress, and some species of eucalyptus. In contrast, hardwood mulches tend to become alkaline and are good for almost any plant that doesn’t require an acidic environment. Mulch adds to the beauty and tidiness of a garden. It also enhances growing conditions by protecting the root zones of plants and moderating soil temperatures. Mulch may make a garden look tidy, but the work it does to improve the growing conditions for plants is what makes it most appealing. Those layers of bark or pine straw also improve soil texture, suppress weeds, and conserve water