Pyloric Sphincter. The pyloric sphincter is a band of smooth muscle at the junction between the pylorus of the stomach and the duodenum of the small intestine. It plays an important role in digestion, where it acts as a valve to controls the flow of partially digested food from the stomach to the small intestine. Anatomy. The pyloric sphincter is a thin, circular band of visceral muscle surrounding the pyloric opening at the inferior end of the stomach. It is found at the border of the stomach’s final segment, the pylorus, and the small intestine’s first segment, the duodenum....
1 The sphincter urethrae, or urethral sphincter, controlling the exit of urine from the body. 2  At the anus, there are two sphincters which control the exit of feces from the body (see internal anal sphincter and external anal sphincter). 3  The inner sphincter is involuntary and the outer is voluntary. 1 The ileocecal sphincter at the junction of the small intestine (ileum) and the large intestine, which functions to limit the reflux of colonic contents back into the ileum. 2  The sphincter of Oddi, or Glisson's sphincter, controlling secretions from the liver, pancreas and gall bladder into the duodenum.
The pyloric sphincter prevents the regurgitation of chyme from the duodenum into the stomach. It also controls the flow of chyme into the intestine, which provides the intestines with a manageable volume of chyme from which to absorb nutrients. Anatomy. The pyloric sphincter is a thin, circular band of visceral muscle surrounding the pyloric opening at the inferior end of the stomach. It is found at the border of the stomach’s final segment, the pylorus, and the small intestine’s first segment, the duodenum....
cardiac sphincter a sphincter between the esophagus and the stomach, opening at the approach of food that can then be swept into the stomach by rhythmic peristaltic waves. sphincter of Oddi a sheath of muscle fibers investing the associated bile and pancreatic passages as they traverse the wall of the duodenum. pyloric sphincter a sphincter at the opening from the stomach into the duodenum; it is usually closed, opening only for a moment when a peristaltic wave passes over it.
sphincter-a ring of muscle that contracts to close an opening. anatomical sphincter, sphincter muscle. muscle, musculus-one of the contractile organs of the body. physiological sphincter-a sphincter that is not recognizable at autopsy because its resting arrangement cannot be distinguished from adjacent tissue. anal sphincter, musculus sphincter ani, sphincter ani-the sphincter muscle of the anus. musculus sphincter urethrae, urethral sphincter-a striated sphincter muscle that constricts the urethra. bladder sphincter, musculus sphincter vesicae-the sphincter muscle of the urinary bladder; made up of a thickened muscular layer of bladder around the urethral opening. musculus sphincter ductus choledochi-the smooth muscle sphincter of the common bile duct.
a circular band of muscle fibers that constricts a passage or closes a natural opening in the body, such as the hepatic sphincter in the muscular coat of the hepatic veins near their union with the superior vena cava, and the external anal sphincter, which closes the anus. sphincter of Oddi a sheath of muscle fibers investing the associated bile and pancreatic passages as they traverse the wall of the duodenum. pyloric sphincter a sphincter at the opening from the stomach into the duodenum; it is usually closed, opening only for a moment when a peristaltic wave passes over it.
that controls the retention and release of urine from the bladder. There are two urethral sphincters: the internal and external urinary sphincters. Part of the muscular bladder wall acts as the internal urethral sphincter and prevents urine from leaving the bladder to enter the urethra. This sphincter cannot be willfully controlled but is under involuntary control by the brain. A layer of muscle called the urogenital diaphragm supplies support for the contents of the pelvis and acts as the external urethral sphincter. It provides a second means of stopping the escape of urine from the body
Full Definition of SPHINCTER. : an annular muscle surrounding and able to contract or close a bodily opening. Medical Definition of SPHINCTER. : an annular muscle surrounding and able to contract or close a bodily opening—see anal sphincter, cardiac sphincter, precapillary sphincter, pyloric sphincter. — sphinc·ter·al \-t(ə-)rəl\ adjective