Measles (Rubeola). A highly contagious viral infection caused by the measles virus. Symptoms appear 8-12 days after exposure and include a rash, cough, fever and muscle pains that can last 4-7 days. PubMed Health Glossary. Chinese medicinal herbs for measles. Measles (rubeola) is an infectious disease caused by multiplication of a single‐strand ribonucleic acid (RNA) virus of the genus Morbillivirus in the upper respiratory tract and conjunctiva. It can lead to serious complications and death
Measles. Measles is a childhood infection caused by a virus. Once quite common, measles can now almost always be prevented with a vaccine. Signs and symptoms of measles include cough, runny nose, inflamed eyes, sore throat, fever and a red, blotchy skin rash. Also called rubeola, measles can be serious and even fatal for small children.
What is Measles? Measles is a highly infectious respiratory disease that can result in severe, sometimes permanent, complications including pneumonia, seizures (jerking and staring), brain damage, and death. It is highly contagious and spreads easily by contact with an infected person through coughing and sneezing. 
Measles, also known as morbilli, rubeola, or red measles, is a highly contagious infection caused by the measles virus. Initial signs and symptoms typically include fever, often greater than 40 °C (104.0 °F), cough, runny nose, and red eyes. Measles affects about 20 million people a year, primarily in the developing areas of Africa and Asia. It causes the most vaccine-preventable deaths of any disease. It resulted in about 96,000 deaths in 2013, down from 545,000 deaths in 1990. In 1980, the disease is estimated to have caused 2.6 million deaths per year.
Measles is a contagious viral respiratory infection mainly affecting children. It causes an itchy rash, but other symptoms of the measles include fever, sore throat, cough, runny nose and red eyes. While there is no medication available to treat measles, the common MMR vaccine is effective at preventing it.
Rubella, also known as German measles or three-day measles, is an infection caused by the rubella virus. This disease is often mild with half of people not realizing that they are sick. A rash may start around two weeks after exposure and last for three days. 
1 Measles symptoms and signs include. 2  dry cough, 3  conjunctivitis, 4  runny nose, 5  high fever. 6  Measles can be complicated by ear infections, pneumonia, or encephalitis. 7  Measles infection of the brain (encephalitis) can cause convulsions, mental retardation, and even death. Measles facts. 1  Measles is a potentially serious disease that is caused by a virus that is easily spread. 2  Measles symptoms and signs include. 3  dry cough, 4  conjunctivitis, 5  runny nose, 6  high fever. 7  Measles can be complicated by ear infections, pneumonia, or encephalitis. 8  Measles infection of the brain (encephalitis) can cause convulsions, mental 9  ... Ther
Measles Symptoms and Signs. Measles, also known as rubeola, is a respiratory disease characterized by a rash all over the body in addition to fever, runny nose, and cough. It is typically a childhood illness that can be complicated by ear infection or pneumonia; associated symptoms for these conditions can include. Measles facts. 1  Measles is a potentially serious disease that is caused by a virus that is easily spread. 2  Measles symptoms and signs include. 3  dry cough, 4  conjunctivitis, 5  runny nose, 6  high fever. 7  Measles can be complicated by ear infections, pneumonia, or encephalitis. 8  Measles infection of the brain (encephalitis) can cause convulsions, mental 9  ... Ther
Measles, also known as rubeola, is one of the most contagious infectious diseases, with at least a 90% secondary infection rate in susceptible domestic contacts. Despite being considered primarily a childhood illness, measles can affect people of all ages. See the image below. Background. Measles, also known as rubeola, is one of the most contagious infectious diseases, with at least a 90% secondary infection rate in susceptible domestic contacts. It can affect people of all ages, despite being considered primarily a childhood illness.