The temple is topped with a concrete dome with a central opening: the oculus. Almost two thousand years after it was built, the Pantheon’s famous dome is still the largest unreinforced concrete dome in the world. Most Famous Domes: The Pantheon in Rome (source: wiki). 10.
Originally it was called Temple of Echo because sounds echoed around the dome. It was the largest dome in the world until the Pantheon was built in Rome. The churches of the Eastern Romans (also called Byzantines) usually had a central dome and sometimes two to four more domes. The most famous of these is the church of the Hagia Sophia in Constantinople (now Istanbul). Its dome is still the largest unreinforced concrete dome in the world. However, it is not a central dome. The temple is a rotunda whose wall supports the dome. Other ancient Roman buildings in Rome which had a dome were the Baths of Agrippa, the Baths of Trajan. A Temple in Baiae (near Naples) had a dome.
Roman Buildings: The Romans invented an incredible building material called concrete. They used it to build the dome of the Pantheon, which even today is still one of the largest single-span domes in the world. The also used concrete to build the Colosseum, the Circus Maximus, and even an underwater port facility at Caesarea (in Israel). One of the greatest feats of Roman engineers were the Roman roads.
The construction of domes was greatly facilitated by the invention of concrete, a process which has been termed the Roman Architectural Revolution. Their enormous dimensions remained unsurpassed until the introduction of structural steel frames in the late 19th century (see List of the world's largest domes).
The Roman Pantheon is the largest (43.4m dia.) unreinforced solid concrete dome in the world. It was built by the emperor Hadrian almost 2,000 years ago. 
Originally it was called Temple of Echo because sounds echoed around the dome. It was the largest dome in the world until the Pantheon was built in Rome. The churches of the Eastern Romans (also called Byzantines) usually had a central dome and sometimes two to four more domes. 
1 The Pantheon in Rome is another famous Roman building, built as a temple. 2  It still has the world’s largest unsupported concrete dome, which measures almost 10 metres across. 3  The Romans built many roads, bridges and aqueducts to expand their empire. 
St. Peter's Basilica, Rome The dome is the world's largest measuring 42m in diameter and reaching 138 meter high (more than 450ft). Its dome is still the largest unreinforced concrete dome in the world. However, it is not a central dome. The temple is a rotunda whose wall supports the dome. Other ancient Roman buildings in Rome which had a dome were the Baths of Agrippa, the Baths of Trajan. A Temple in Baiae (near Naples) had a dome.
This is a list of Roman domes. The Romans were the first builders in the history of architecture to realize the potential of domes for the creation of large and well-defined interior spaces. Domes were introduced in a number of Roman building types such as temples, thermae, palaces, mausolea and later also churches. Their enormous dimensions remained unsurpassed until the introduction of structural steel frames in the late 19th century (see List of the world's largest domes).
This list excludes dome-shaped structures that are not self-supporting such as The O2 (formerly the Millennium Dome) in London which is 365 m (1,198 ft) in diameter and supported by masts. This article tries to list every dome in the world which was the largest dome of its time. The defining criterion is in each case the inner diameter of the largest circular cross-section of the dome. Below is a list of buildings that have held the title of the largest dome on their continent. In the first half of the 1980s a dome with a diameter of 234 metres was built near Istra, Russia.