None Ross is an equal employment opportunity employer committed to the hiring, acceptance and appreciation of every individual.... 13 days ago-email. Show: all jobs-only 'Easy Apply' jobs. DMSI Staffing / ROSS Dress For Less-Moreno Valley, CA 92551. 6 days ago-save job-email-more... 1  View all Ross Dress For Less-Northline jobs in Houston, TX-Houston jobs. 2  Salary Search: Manager Training salaries in Houston, TX. 3  Related forums: Houston, Texas-Manager-Ross Dress For Less-Northline.
Ross Dress for Less assistant store managers earn salary options around $40,000 per year, on average. Store managers may make annual salary rates between $55,000 and $70,000 a year, depending on experience and time spent with the company. Employment benefits eligibility requirements and availability typically vary by location and position. Apply online with Ross Dress for Less to find more information on work benefits, salary options, and specific job responsibilities. In addition to U.S. locations, Ross also manages operations in the United States territory of Guam
Ross Dress For Less-Houston, TX. Job Description: This position is a part time position up to 25 hours per week. The job responsibilities will include customer service, stocking, handling customer registerread more. Ross Dress For Less 26 days ago. Employment benefits eligibility requirements and availability typically vary by location and position. Apply online with Ross Dress for Less to find more information on work benefits, salary options, and specific job responsibilities. In addition to U.S. locations, Ross also manages operations in the United States territory of Guam
If the “desired salary” field requires you to enter a figure, however, you have a couple of options, each has it’s own benefits and drawbacks: 1  Enter $0, $1, or $10 (the minimum number you can)—it will be clear you’re not answering the questions (most employers will know you aren’t offering to work for free). 1 Enter $999,999 (or the highest number you can). 2  Like answering $0, this shows you are purposely avoiding the question. 3  You can enter your desired salary, based on not only your personal needs and wants, but also on your market research of your value and salaries.
Ross Stores average salary is $83,131, median salary is $85,000 with a salary range from $30,108 to $135,000. Ross Stores salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position. Ross Stores salary statistics is not exclusive and is for reference only. They are presented as is and updated regularly
If you enter a high salary number, in the hopes of strengthening your negotiating hand later, you will be less likely to get the interviews, less likely to get a job offer, and you will have nobody to negotiate with. At least a low number gets the conversation started. Job seekers, it is fine to list your salary history — the employer will eventually find that out anyway. But try to avoid entering a desired salary. If you must enter something, I suggest you enter your absolute lowest possible number.
In the most recent ROSS Notice of Funding Available (with applications due February 21, 2011), each ROSS service coordinator grant is a three-year grant that provided funding for the salaries and benefits of up to three service coordinators. The maximum salary per coordinator is $68,000. If supported by a PHA, a non-profit could apply for positions dependent on the number of units served by the PHA: 50 to 1,000 units received 1 service coordinator; 1,001 units to 2,500 units received 2 service coordinators; 2501+ received 3
History of Ross Stores. Ross Stores is headquartered in San Bruno, California operating under the name of Ross Dress for Less. Ross Stores are the third largest off-price stores in the United States. Only TJ Max and Marshalls excels them. Ross Stores operate 953 stores in 27 U.S. states and Guam. Ross job interview follows after you have submitted the required documents as part of the application process. If you are one of the potential candidates, you will be informed for an interview usually after a week or too. If you are schedule for an interview, make sure to show up early and dress professionally.