Glutamate (Glutamic acid) is the most prominent neurotransmitter in the body, and it is the main excitatory neurotransmitter, being present in over 50% of nervous tissue. Glutamate was initially discovered to be a neurotransmitter in insect studies in the early 1960s.
MSG, or Monosodium Glutamate is a salt of the amino acid-Glutamic Acid (glutamate). A salt is the chemical name for a molecule held together by opposite charges. Basically one (mono) sodium atom is stuck to the amino acid glutamate.
At normal concentrations, glutamate is crucial for brain functions such as learning and memory. However, at high concentrations the increased cellular activity caused by glutamate results in over-excitation of nerve cells, which eventually leads to cell death.
Glutamate does not pass easily the blood brain barrier but it is instead transported by a high-affinity transport system. It can also be converted into glutamine. Glutamine can cross the blood brain barrier, and then be converted into glutamate by the action of phosphate-activated Glutaminase.
Glutamate does not only mediate a lot of information, but also information which regulates brain development and information which determines cellular survival, differentiation and elimination as well as formation and elimination of nerve contacts (synapses).
GLUTAMATE AS NEUROTRANSMITTER. Glutamic acid (abbreviated as Glu or E) is one of the 20-22 proteinogenic amino acids, and its codons are GAA and GAG. It is a non-essential amino acid with a side chain carboxylic acid functional group. The carboxylate anions and salts of glutamic acid are known as glutamates.
Glutamate is an amino acid, found in protein-containing foods. It is one of the most abundant and important components of proteins. Glutamate occurs naturally in cheese, milk, meat, fish, and many vegetables. Glutamate is also produced by the human body and is vital for metabolism and brain function.
In mammals, glutamate is mainly present in the central nervous system, brain, and spinal cord, where it plays the role of a neuronal messenger, or neurotransmitter. In fact, almost all brain cells use glutamate to exchange messages.
By Stephanie Liou 26 Jun, 2011 Glutamate Toxicity. Glutamate is a powerful excitatory neurotransmitter that is released by nerve cells in the brain. It is responsible for sending signals between nerve cells, and under normal conditions it plays an important role in learning and memory.