Ashwagandha is also used as an “adaptogen” to help the body cope with daily stress, and as a general tonic. Some people also use ashwagandha for improving thinking ability, decreasing pain and swelling (inflammation), and preventing the effects of aging. Ashwagandha is applied to the skin for treating wounds, backache, and one-sided paralysis (hemiplegia). The name Ashwagandha is from the Sanskrit language and is a combination of the word ashva, meaning horse, and gandha, meaning smell.
Ashwagandha (Withania somnifera) is one of the most powerful medicinal plants, and has been used for more than 3,000 years by one of the most oldest medicinal systems in the world: ayurvedic medicine. Its history means that the effects of the plant are very well known. Ashwagandha is a major plant in ayurvedic medicine (Indinan medicine) and responds to the needs of modern life in combating stress, diseases and in restoring strength and vigour.
The root has a strong aroma that is described as “horse-like.”. In Ayurvedic, Indian, and Unani medicine, ashwagandha is described as “Indian ginseng.” Ashwagandha is also used in traditional African medicine for a variety of ailments. Don’t confuse ashwagandha with Physalis alkekengi. Ashwagandha is applied to the skin for treating wounds, backache, and one-sided paralysis (hemiplegia). The name Ashwagandha is from the Sanskrit language and is a combination of the word ashva, meaning horse, and gandha, meaning smell.
Dosage. Typically, the root of the ashwagandha plant is taken in capsule or tea form. The tea is made by simmering 3/4 to 1 tsp. of the ground root in boiling water for 15 to 20 minutes, according to the University of Michigan. The tea can be taken up to three times a day. A Withania somnifera plant growing in a garden. Photo Credit dar_st/iStock/Getty Images. Ashwagandha root is often referred to as Indian ginseng even though the plant is a member of the pepper family. This is because it contains many attributes and compounds that make it similar to panax ginseng.
Ashwagandha -- known as Withania somnifera or Indian winter cherry -- is a traditional “rasayana,” or tonic herb, in the ancient Ayurvedic system of medicine. Considered the “Indian ginseng,” ashwagandha is an adaptogen -- an herb that helps the body cope with various forms of stress. 
by: Jenna Saunders. Ashwagandha, one of the most powerful herbs in Ayurvedic healing, has been used since ancient times for a wide variety of conditions, and is most well-known for its restorative benefits. In Ayurveda, there are specific herbs with adaptogenic benefits, Ashwagandha is one of them. Adaptogens are substances (a combination of amino acids, vitamins, and herbs) that modulate your response to stress or a changing environment.
Ashwagandha is a plant. The root and berry are used to make medicine. Ashwagandha has a lot of uses. But so far, there isn’t enough information to judge whether it is effective for any of them. Ashwagandha is applied to the skin for treating wounds, backache, and one-sided paralysis (hemiplegia). The name Ashwagandha is from the Sanskrit language and is a combination of the word ashva, meaning horse, and gandha, meaning smell.
Buy Ashwagandha supplement extract from root 50 0 mg each pill-Highest quality Withania somnifera, is an herb that is extensively used in Ayurveda, the traditional health care system in India. This herb is used as a general tonic and adaptogen, helping the body adapt to stress. Anti-anxiety herb The roots of ashwagandha are used extensively in Ayurveda, the classical Indian system of medicine. In rodent studies the herb has been shown to reduce anxiety and have a positive effect on mood. Other nutraceuticals used for anxiety relief are 5-HTP, GABA, and theanine.
Withania somnifera, known commonly as ashwagandha, Indian ginseng, poison gooseberry, or winter cherry, is a plant in the Solanaceae or nightshade family. Several other species in the genus Withania are morphologically similar. It is used as a herb in Ayurvedic medicine. 