Hackathons typically start with one or more presentations about the event, as well as about the specific subject, if any. Then participants suggest ideas and form teams, based on individual interests and skills. Mobile app hackathons like Over the Air, held at Bletchley Park, England, can see a large amount of corporate sponsorship and interest. Music Hack Day, a hackathon for music-related software and hardware applications, is a popular event, having been held over 30 times around the world since 2009.
Have fun! Remember that you’re at the Hackathon to have fun. Yes, it’s a competition but it’s also a place to experiment, meet interesting people, learn something new and build something from scratch. Don’t stress yourself out too much if you don’t accomplish what you set out to do, or if you don’t win. At $99, it’s not cheap but it’s the best. If you do Hackathons regularly, or you need to make a video of a new app that you’ve built and post to Hacker News, this software is worth it. If you don’t want to spend $99 for Screenflow, you can use the built-in Quicktime player to make a screen recording.
Real life problems are hard! Think of the hackathon as a pit-stop on a long journey to solve problems or as a training session to prepare participants for solving problems. Since you’re not going to solve a problem, don’t put unrealistic (and unhealthy) pressure on your participants. A successful hackathon might be just hacking, just training, or both hacking and training. If you have a significant number of newcomers, having training workshops is a great way to give them something to do that they will be more comfortable with than diving into hacking.
I define “hackathon” very broadly: 1  Hacking is creative problem solving. ( 2 It does not have to be about technology.). 3  A hackathon is any event of any duration where people come together to solve problems. 4  Most hackathons I’ve run also have a parallel track for workshops. A successful hackathon might be just hacking, just training, or both hacking and training. If you have a significant number of newcomers, having training workshops is a great way to give them something to do that they will be more comfortable with than diving into hacking.
Fun – hackathons are intense but they are also fun and developers enjoy them. When planning your hackathon ensure that you have a couple of nice surprises perhaps as part of the judging and prize-giving segment of your hackathon to ensure everyone that has a good time. We hope you have found this information useful. 2. Venue location – To guarantee a good turnout at your hackathon you need to pick a venue that is easy to get to. Don’t fall at the first hurdle by picking a venue that attendees need to use GPS to find. It should also be possible for attendees to take short breaks outside of the venue.
Hackathons are very much a social event. So don’t waste any opportunity to talk to somebody. Try to find out what they’re planning to do this weekend, what technology they’re using, and if they’ve been to a hackathon before. Eventually, you’ll all be shuffled into an auditorium for the opening talks. The organizers will come up and tell you a bit about the event and what’s planned for the weekend. Hacking’s over and it’s demo time. At smaller hackathons (with fewer than 200 people) everybody will demo their hacks in an auditorium in front of everybody else. It doesn’t matter if your hack doesn’t work properly or if you think your hack is dumb, it’s a chance to share what you learned ove
The hackathon organizer must make sure that everyone has something to do. One way to do this is to have a list of project leaders ahead of time: people you know are coming with particular projects that you can guide other participants to. And you can work to make sure your hacking projects are ready to accept newcomers. A successful hackathon might be just hacking, just training, or both hacking and training. If you have a significant number of newcomers, having training workshops is a great way to give them something to do that they will be more comfortable with than diving into hacking.
Survival Guide to Your First Hackathon. Last weekend, I attended my first ever hackathon and with minimal expectation, had a blast out of it and learned loads. My team did not win, nor did most of us slept at the event, but everyone got a lot out of it. The Hackathon, DevelopHer, was organized by LinkedIn, claimed to be the first women-only hackathon. Regardless of the motivation, I recommend going into the hackathon with an idea or two. I joined a group where a new teammate came up and suggested her idea which everyone turned out to love and decided to hack away on it.
Hackathons typically last between a day and a week. Some hackathons are intended simply for educational or social purposes, although in many cases the goal is to create usable software. Mobile app hackathons like Over the Air, held at Bletchley Park, England, can see a large amount of corporate sponsorship and interest. Music Hack Day, a hackathon for music-related software and hardware applications, is a popular event, having been held over 30 times around the world since 2009.