Phaseolus vulgaris, the common bean (also known as the string bean, field bean, flageolet bean, French bean, garden bean, green bean, haricot bean, pop bean, or snap bean), is a herbaceous annual plant grown worldwide for its edible dry seed (known as just  beans ) or unripe fruit (green beans). These include the kidney bean, the navy bean, the pinto bean, and the wax bean. The other major types of commercially grown bean are the runner bean (Phaseolus coccineus) and the broad bean (Vicia faba). Beans are grown in every continent except Antarctica.
There are different classifications of kidney beans, such as: 1  Red kidney bean (also known as: common kidney bean, Rajma in India, Surkh(Red) Lobia in Pakistan). 2  Light speckled kidney bean (and long shape light speckled kidney bean). 1 Red kidney bean (also known as: common kidney bean, Rajma in India, Surkh(Red) Lobia in Pakistan). 2  Light speckled kidney bean (and long shape light speckled kidney bean). 3  Red
Dry beans are the same species as green beans (snap beans) commonly grown in gardens. If you've seen green beans growing, you have a good idea what dry beans look like, with the difference being that dry bean varieties have higher seed yields. Some dry bean varieties are viney like garden bean varieties, while others are more of an erect, bushy plant, like soybeans. Dry beans do not grow as vigorously as soybeans, usually reaching only about 18 to 24 inches in height. Pods, each containing 2 to 4 seeds, are borne upon the length of the stem. 
Description. Just as its name suggests, the kidney bean is shaped like a kidney. Since these dark red beans hold their shape really well during cooking and readily absorb surrounding flavors, they are a favorite bean to use in simmered dishes. Kidney beans that are white in color are known as cannellini beans. 
Planting. Red kidney beans are classified as dry beans. They grow on an erect, bushy plant that typically reaches 18 to 24 inches in height. In most areas, you can plant kidney beans from seed after the last frost date for your area, usually in the middle of May. Red kidney beans grow best in 15-inch rows at a depth of 1 to 2 inches.
In Beetles. Dark brown or red larvae that look like kidney beans but are cone  shaped might be the larvae of the pine borer beetle or the cone  beetle. This type of larvae is common and … might belong to a variety  of beetle species depending on your area and location. Answered. In Human Anatomy and Physiology
The kidney bean is a variety of the common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris). It is named for its visual resemblance in shape and color to a kidney. Red kidney beans can be confused with other beans that are red, such as adzuki beans. 1 Red kidney bean (also known as: common kidney bean, Rajma in India, Surkh(Red) Lobia in Pakistan). 2  Light speckled kidney bean (and long shape light speckled kidney bean). 3  Red
To cook, place the soaked kidney beans in a pan and cover with a fresh change of cold water, then bring to the boil. The beans must boil for ten minutes to destroy the toxin. After this, simmer until cooked (approximately 45 to 60 minutes), when they should have an even, creamy texture throughout. 
Kidney beans are large, dry beans known for their kidney shape and usually a dark, red appearance though they do come in other colors. They are a staple of southern cuisine and make a great supplement to meat for vegetarians due to their high levels of protein, calcium and magnesium. The large leaves of kidney bean plants are targets for lots of different pests including slugs, leafhoppers, beetles and aphids. Organic sprays and hand picking are the best way to deal with bugs like these. Use fencing and netting if squirrels, deer or rabbits become a nuisance. Keep a tidy, healthy garden.