The amount of pension you get for these contributions will be at least as much as you would have got under the old State Pension, provided you have at least ten qualifying years. These can be from before or after 6 April 2016 and they don’t have to be ten years in a row. The full new State Pension from 6 April 2016 will be at least £148.40 per week. The amount will be set in autumn 2015. Depending on your National Insurance record, you could receive a higher or lower amount. You can get an estimate of how much State Pension you may get on the GOV.UK website.
The State Pension top-up can be inherited by a surviving husband, wife or civil partner. You can find out how much you would need to pay to increase your pension by between £1 and £25 a week at www.gov.uk/state-pension-topup. The full new State Pension from 6 April 2016 will be at least £148.40 per week. The amount will be set in autumn 2015. Depending on your National Insurance record, you could receive a higher or lower amount. You can get an estimate of how much State Pension you may get on the GOV.UK website.
Inheriting or increasing State Pension from a spouse or civil partner. You may be able to inherit an extra payment on top of your new State Pension if you’re widowed. You won’t be able to inherit anything if you remarry or form a new civil partnership before you reach State Pension age.
Inheriting Additional State Pension. You’ll inherit part of your deceased partner’s Additional State Pension if your marriage or civil partnership with them began before 6 April 2016 and one of the following applies: You may be able to inherit an extra payment on top of your new State Pension if you’re widowed. You won’t be able to inherit anything if you remarry or form a new civil partnership before you reach State Pension age.
The maximum amount of State Second Pension (S2P) that widows, widowers or surviving civil partners can inherit is 50% regardless of when they were bereaved. Please note that there is a maximum amount of Additional State Pension you can receive. Therefore, if you have some of your own Additional State Pension and inherit some of your partner's, you cannot be paid more than the weekly maximum amount (currently £167.81/week 2013-14). 
Inheriting extra State Pension or a lump sum. You may inherit part of or all of your partner’s extra State Pension or lump sum if: 1  they died while they were deferring their State Pension (before claiming) or they had started claiming it after deferring. 2  they reached State Pension age before 6 April 2016. You may be able to inherit an extra payment on top of your new State Pension if you’re widowed. You won’t be able to inherit anything if you remarry or form a new civil partnership before you reach State Pension age.
You’ve reached State Pension age. The amount you can inherit depends on your spouse or civil partner’s date of birth. You can inherit up to 50% of their State Second Pension. The maximum amount of Additional State Pension you can get is £164.36 per week from April 2015 to April 2016. This is based on your own and your partner’s National Insurance contributions. You’re under State Pension age. You may inherit Additional State Pension if you get Widowed Parent’s Allowance. However, if your Widowed Parent’s Allowance ends, the Additional State Pension ends too. It may be paid again when you reach State Pension age if:
If you die, your spouse or civil partner may be able to inherit some of this additional state pension. To see how much additional State Pension can be inherited, go to www.gov.uk/additional-state-pension/further-information. 1 They can also inherit some additional State Pension from their deceased spouse or civil partner as under the present system. 2  When both partners reach State Pension age after the New State Pension starts in April 2016, a surviving spouse or civil partner will be able to inherit 50% of any protected payment that exists.