Melodic Intonation Therapy (MIT) is a therapeutic process used by music therapists and speech-language pathologists to help patients with communication disorders caused by damage to the left hemisphere of the brain. The majority of research in Melodic Intonation Therapy has been conducted with aphasia patients. Aphasia is a deficit in language abilities resulting from damage to the brain. There are different types of aphasia depending on the location of the damage.
Aetna considers combinational use of transcranial magnetic stimulation/transcranial brain stimulation and melodic intonation therapy for the treatment of aphasia experimental and investigational because the effectiveness of this approach has not been established. Aetna considers melodic intonation therapy experimental and investigational for dysarthria, verbal apraxia, other types of aphasia, and for all other indications because its effectiveness for these indications
Top 10 facts about the world. Melodic intonation therapy, or MIT, is a type of speech therapy for communication disorders like aphasia, using a certain kind of singing to help with verbal expression through normal speech. Aphasia is a disorder in which the individual has difficulty understanding or producing language for communication. Melodic intonation therapy is not appropriate for certain types of aphasia patients, such as those with damage to both brain hemispheres.
Melodic intonation therapy (MIT) is a type of speech-language therapy that has been used to treat non-fluent aphasia. During MIT sessions a person with non-fluent aphasia is encouraged to hum, and then to sing words or phrases they find hard to recall, while tapping out a rhythm (NHS, 2011). Aetna considers melodic intonation therapy experimental and investigational for dysarthria, verbal apraxia, other types of aphasia, and for all other indications because its effectiveness for these indications has not been established.
MIT Therapy. -Melodic Intonation Therapy. Melodic Intonation Therapy is a type of aphasia treatment program that uses musical intonation, continuous voicing, and rhythmic tapping to teach verbal expressions to clients with severe non-fluent aphasia with good auditory comprehension.
This issue should be explored in future experimental studies. Melodic intonation therapy [MIT; (1, 2)] is a treatment program used by speech-language pathologists for the rehabilitation of patients with speech production disorders. At the first levels of the MIT program, musical components are used to facilitate verbal expression. Goal of the Original MIT. Melodic intonation therapy was developed to improve propositional language (1, 2), or the generative and controlled language production that people use in everyday life to express their ideas (9).
Melodic intonation therapy may be effective for treating some types of aphasia, which are communication disorders. A speech therapist may use a modified version of MIT with a child. MIT encourages the right hemisphere to compensate for impaired speech abilities based in the left hemisphere. Aphasia is a disorder in which the individual has difficulty understanding or producing language for communication. Melodic intonation therapy is not appropriate for certain types of aphasia patients, such as those with damage to both brain hemispheres.
Description. Melodic intonation therapy was originally developed as a treatment method for speech improvements in adults with aphasia. The initial method has had several modifications, mostly adaptations for use by children with apraxia. The primary structure of this therapy remains relatively consistent however