1 An orange ribbon or orange-and-white ribbon is an awareness ribbon for Self Injury Awareness Day (SIAD) (March 1). 2  SIAD promotes awareness and support of those people who self-harm. 3  They were formerly colored red, blue and black. 4  It is also worn to show support for 16 day of activism against gender based violence. On this day, some people choose to be more open about their own self-harm, and awareness organisations make special efforts to raise awareness about self-harm. Some people wear an orange awareness ribbon or wristband to encourage awareness of
The orange ribbon is a symbol adopted for a very wide variety of uses in different places. It is currently being used in the #savecedric campaign to promote the continued unification of the westside region of a business in Northern Indiana. On this day, some people choose to be more open about their own self-harm, and awareness organisations make special efforts to raise awareness about self-harm. Some people wear an orange awareness ribbon or wristband to encourage awareness of
The meaning behind an awareness ribbon depends on its colors and pattern. Since many advocacy groups have adopted ribbons as symbols of support or awareness, ribbons, particularly those of a single color, some colors may refer to more than one cause. Some causes may be represented by more than one ribbon. 1 lung-cancer awareness. 2  It was originally clear, referencing air and being too-often unnoticed, but evolved to primarily pearl or white for practical reasons, because a clear ribbon isn't easily visible.
Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Yes, orange is the official color for self injury awareness it is posted on several websites. Sometimes they say orange and white is for recovery, all orange is for currently self injuring, and white with a little orange is for supporters for self injury awareness. I hope that helps answer your question. Currently: Red or Black-Red because of the obvious blood. and black because usually before someone self-harms they think of bad thoughts, which to me is a black thought. EDIT: Well, yeah the official colors are orange. Self-Injury Awareness Day is March 1st. Some people where orange ribbons that day.
Here is a handy list we maintain regularly of Cause Awareness Colors and the corresponding causes, cancer or meanings. Click on a ribbon to see all the causes represented by that color and all the items offered for each cause. 
Awareness Color Definition Guide. We have compiled a giant list of the most common awareness colors and their corresponding causes, including breast cancer awareness colors, AIDS awareness colors and more! Find out which color represents your cause, including Alzheimer’s, heart disease, cancer, AIDS, asthma and almost any cause you can possibly think of! Some causes have more than one awareness color associated with them, and are marked with an asterisk. The alternate color is listed below the chart. Some causes, like breast cancer awareness and breast cancer survivor have the same colors.
Many efforts are being made by local supporters to raise awareness of this cause. It was more recently used worldwide to promote awareness of self-harm on March 1, 2012. March 1 is designated as Self-injury Awareness Day (SIAD) around the world. On this day, some people choose to be more open about their own self-harm, and awareness organisations make special efforts to raise awareness about self-harm. Some people wear an orange awareness ribbon or wristband to encourage awareness of
Because many awareness ribbon colors may have multiple associated meanings Disabled World is listing only the awareness ribbons regarding health and disabilities.. The use of colored ribbons is designed to draw awareness to health and other issues. For example Canada has granted official mark status for pink (breast cancer) awareness ribbons to the Canadian Breast Cancer Foundation. NOTE: Because many awareness ribbon colors may have multiple associated meanings Disabled World is listing only