1 Wear shoes to avoid getting another splinter. 2  Make sure to wash the affected area, so that the dirt on your foot doesn't get into the wound. 3  Don't let any bacteria get in it or it may become infected. 4  Don't use your fingers to get the splinter out, otherwise the splinter will go deeper into your skin. Part 2 of 2: Baking soda removal. 1. See How to Remove a Splinter for a description of other methods you may want to try first. The baking soda method described here is best for tiny, invisible splinters, or deeply-embedded ones. The baking soda paste will cause the skin to swell and push the splinter out.
You don't want the skin (or the splinter, if it's wood) to get soggy. 3. Inspect the splinter with a magnifying glass. The size of the splinter and how it's angled in your skin will help you know what's the best way to take it out. Part 2 of 2: Baking soda removal. 1. See How to Remove a Splinter for a description of other methods you may want to try first. The baking soda method described here is best for tiny, invisible splinters, or deeply-embedded ones. The baking soda paste will cause the skin to swell and push the splinter out.
Removing a stubborn splinter from your finger or foot is never fun, especially if it involves digging into your skin with a needle or tweezers. But if you use common household or food items around the house, you can actually remove splinters from your skin very easily and quite painlessly. 
Spread the baking soda paste onto a bandage, then apply the bandage to the affected area. 4. After 24 hours, remove the bandage. The splinter may be sticking out of the skin. If it's visible, pick it off with tweezers, and rinse the skin gently. If the splinter is sticking out but not visible, this may wash it away without further complications. 1  Repeat the method with new paste and another bandage every 24 hours until the splinter is gone. Part 2 of 2: Baking soda removal. 1. See How to Remove a Splinter for a description of other methods you may want to try first. The baking soda method described here is best for tiny, invisible splinters, or deeply-embedded ones. The baking soda paste will cause the skin to swell and push the splinter out.
1 Make a paste out of baking soda and water. 2  Apply the thick paste to the splinter. 3  You can also spread some of this paste on a bandage, and then place it over the affected area. 4  Remove bandage after about 24 hours. 5  You may see the splinter sticking out of your skin. 6  Pick off the splinter with tweezers. Salve. This is a painless way to remove a splinter, but it will take a day to accomplish it. 1  Purchase an over-the-counter ointment called Ichthammol (black drawing salve) from a pharmacy. 2  It is a greasy material with an unpleasant odor. 3  Place a small amount of the ointment on your splinter and cover it with a band-aid.
1 Apply the thick paste to the splinter. 2  You can also spread some of this paste on a bandage, and then place it over the affected area. 3  Remove bandage after about 24 hours. 4  You may see the splinter sticking out of your skin. 5  Pick off the splinter with tweezers. Salve. This is a painless way to remove a splinter, but it will take a day to accomplish it. 1  Purchase an over-the-counter ointment called Ichthammol (black drawing salve) from a pharmacy. 2  It is a greasy material with an unpleasant odor. 3  Place a small amount of the ointment on your splinter and cover it with a band-aid.
10. Disinfect the area. Wash the area where the splinter was after you’ve taken it out of your skin. This can clean any lingering bacteria and germs in the wound. Afterwards, apply an anti-bacterial ointment. 1  You can use a mild soap and water or an anti-bacterial wash to disinfect the affected area. 2  Pat the area dry with a towel. 1 Pull out the splinter at the same angle that it entered your skin. 2  If you have to dig deeply with your tweezers to get at the splinter, you may want to see your doctor to remove it. 3  If the tip of the splinter breaks off, you may need to either see a doctor or try regrasping it with your tweezers.
Once you’ve exposed the splinter’s tip, grasp it with your tweezers. Gently pull out the splinter. 1  Pull out the splinter at the same angle that it entered your skin. 2  If you have to dig deeply with your tweezers to get at the splinter, you may want to see your doctor to remove it. 1 Pull out the splinter at the same angle that it entered your skin. 2  If you have to dig deeply with your tweezers to get at the splinter, you may want to see your doctor to remove it. 3  If the tip of the splinter breaks off, you may need to either see a doctor or try regrasping it with your tweezers.