Ortho-Bionomy is a gentle, non-invasive, osteopathically-based form of body therapy which is highly effective in working with chronic stress, injuries and pains or problems associated with postural and structural imbalances.
In fact the word “orthopedic” is derived from the Greek words “ortho,” meaning straight, and “pais,” meaning children or pediatric. Modern orthopedic physicians treat everyone, no matter their age.
An orthopedic surgeon, or orthopaedic surgeon, is a surgeon who has been educated and trained in the diagnosis and preoperative, operative, and postoperative treatment of diseases and injuries of the musculoskeletal system.
ortho-. 1. Combining forms meaning straight, normal, in proper order. 2. chemistry Italicized prefix denoting that a compound has two substitutions on adjacent carbon atoms in a benzene ring. For terms beginning ortho-or o-, see the specific name.
In a nutshell, the study and research of the musculoskeletal system (bones, joints, nerves, etc.) is known as orthopedics. Orthopedics was first developed to treat children who had crippling or debilitating diseases.
The term Ortho-Bionomy comes from ortho meaning correct or straight, bio meaning life, and nomy meaning the laws of or study of. Dr. Pauls defined the term then as the correct application of the laws of life.. He stated [Ortho-Bionomy] is really about understanding your whole life cycle.
Orthopedic services. Orthopedics, or orthopedic services, is the medical specialty that involves the treatment of the musculoskeletal system, which is made up of your body’s bones, joints, ligaments, tendons, and muscles. Any number of medical problems can affect the
Orthopedics, or orthopedic services, is the medical specialty that involves the treatment of the musculoskeletal system, which is made up of your body’s bones, joints, ligaments, tendons, and muscles.
ortho-. combining form. 1. straight or upright: orthotropous. 2. perpendicular or at right angles: orthoclastic. 3. correct or right: orthodontics; orthodox; orthography; orthoptics.
ortho-. 1. a combining form meaning “straight,” “upright,” “right,” “correct”: orthodontics; orthopedic. 2. a. a combining form used in the name of the most hydrated acid in a given series: orthoboric acid.