Company Overview. Joseph Ribkoff, Inc. designs, sews, produces, and exports dresses for women. The company offers sportswear, and day and evening wear, as well as dresses for various occasions. 
Joseph Ribkoff. Joseph Ribkoff offers timeless designs of Dresses and Separates. Season after season, women flock to Joseph Ribkoff designs because the looks are always in style and the fit is consistent. Joseph Ribkoff clothing will make you feel sexy and classy all at the same time. Joseph Ribkoff is a line that can appeal to women of any age and style because of the vast degree of design. Joseph Ribkoff has not only sponsored Miss America, but numerous other spokeswomen all over the world!
Worn here with the Sympli Go-To Tank ($92) and the Joseph Ribkoff soft knit cardigan ($150). Lisa is wearing the Sympli Shrug ($143) over the Sympli Tank Tunic ($92) and the Sympli Pure Pant ($118). In the above picture, a beaming Lisa’s look is almost perfect. We wanted to share with you a glimpse into what is coming up in 2015. The maxi dress will be strong and pinks and corals will be aplenty. Here, Primal is modelling a beautiful Joseph Ribkoff number, the perfect piece for all of those (lucky) ladies spending their holidays in warmer climates.
Every customer who buys Joseph Ribkoff can attest to the longevity of his clothing both in quality and timeless style. Most of his designs are made from specially sourced fabrics that are handpicked because of their quality. Joseph Ribkoff is a line that can appeal to women of any age and style because of the vast degree of design. Joseph Ribkoff has not only sponsored Miss America, but numerous other spokeswomen all over the world!
A Joseph Ribkoff faux fur jacket. Ultra-soft, the plush gray coat has a ruffled front closure and cuffs. Two hooks close the jacket. It is 100% polyester. It is marked size US 12. The bust measures 40 inch (measures across the front armpit to armpit and then doubled). The length measures 22.5 inch down the center of the back. The shoulders measure 18.5 inch. It is in excellent condition with the original tag
Mr. Joseph Ribkoff is the Founder of Joseph Ribkoff Inc., and serves as its President and Chairman of the Board. --. --. Mr. Joseph Ribkoff is the Founder of Joseph Ribkoff Inc., and serves as its President and Chairman of the Board. 2375 de l’Aviation. Dorval, Quebec H9P 2X6. Canada. Founder, Chairman and President
Become a fan of our Joseph Ribkoff page. Stay in touch and in style with the latest from Joseph Ribkoff. 