Endospores are dormant, non-reproductive and enzymatically inert forms of bacterial vegetative cells [1] . Endospore-producing bacteria are more conventionally termed “sporulating bacteria”. Sporulating bacteria are derived from the [1] Firmicute phylum and mainly consist of [2] Gram positive bacteria [7] . These endospore-forming bacteria belong to the [3] Bacillus and Clostridium genus [2] . An endospore is a reduced form of a bacterium. It is comprised of a core containing only the bare essentials necessary for the initiation of bacterial growth.
Spores are resistant to heat, UV radiation and chemicals because they are comprised of a tough proteinaceous covering called keratin. A mature endospore contains a complete set of the genetic material (DNA) from the vegetative cell, ribosomes and specialized enzymes. When vegetative cells are subjected to environmental stresses such as nutrient deprivation they eventually die. However, some bacteria such as the Bacillus spp. and the Clostridium spp can circumvent the problems associated with environmental stress by forming. endospores. .
Endospores are generally considered the most resistant living structures known. Endospores are able to resist desiccation (which just means drying), extreme heat and cold, radiation, chemical reactions, acids, and the effects of long periods of time, as illustrated by the endospores found in the bee belly. These bacteria form endospores that are extremely resistant to environmental extremes, chemical degradation, and the effects of time. When conditions improve, the endospores can germinate and rapidly return to normal growth.
An endospore is a dormant, tough, and non-reproductive structure produced by certain bacteria from the Firmicute phylum. The name endospore is suggestive of a spore or seed-like form (endo means within), but it is not a true spore (i.e., not an offspring). It is a stripped-down, dormant form to which the bacterium can reduce itself. When the environment becomes more favorable, the endospore can reactivate itself to the vegetative state. Most types of bacteria cannot change to the endospore form. Examples of bacteria that can form endospores include Bacillus and Clostridium.
. Water is used to decolorize. the cells; as the endospores are resistant to staining, the endospores are equally resistant to de-staining and will retain the primary dye while the vegetative cells will lose the stain. The addition of a counterstain or secondary stain (safranin) is used to stain the decolorized vegetative cells. When vegetative cells are subjected to environmental stresses such as nutrient deprivation they eventually die. However, some bacteria such as the Bacillus spp. and the Clostridium spp can circumvent the problems associated with environmental stress by forming. endospores. .
An endospore is an extremely resistant dormant cell structure produced by some bacterial species. If you break down the term endospore, 'endo-' means 'inside' and '-spore' refers to the 'dormant structure,' so the endospore is a structured formed inside the cell. These bacteria form endospores that are extremely resistant to environmental extremes, chemical degradation, and the effects of time. When conditions improve, the endospores can germinate and rapidly return to normal growth.
When favored nutrients are exhausted, some bacteria may become motile to seek out nutrients, or they may produce enzymes to exploit alternative resources. One example of an extreme survival strategy employed by certain low G+C Gram-positive bacteria is the formation of endospores. The resilience of an endospore can be explained in part by its unique cellular structure. The outer proteinaceous coat surrounding the spore provides much of the chemical and enzymatic resistance. Beneath the coat resides a very thick layer of specialized peptidoglycan called the cortex.
C. Function of Endospores. An endospore is not a reproductive structure but rather a resistant, dormant survival form of the organism. Endospores are quite resistant to high temperatures (including boiling), most disinfectants, low energy radiation, drying, etc. 1. Endospores are dormant alternate life forms produced by a few genera of bacteria. 2. The genus Bacillus (an obligate aerobe often living in the soil) and the genus Clostridium (an obligate anaerobe living in the gastrointestinal tract of animals) produce endospores. 3.