Welcome to the SportsDirect.com Fishing department! Here you'll find a fantastic selection of fishing equipment and essentials for all different types of fishing. Whether you're into carp fishing, coarse fishing, sea fishing or fly fishing we can offer a wide range of fishing rods, reels and nets to suit your needs. We don't just stock equipment either; our collection of fishing clothing and footwear has offerings from some of the biggest names in Angling!
Donate that used ski jacket or that winter coat from ten years ago. Donate furniture and appliances you don’t need anymore. Clear out your garage of old ski equipment, fishing poles, hiking gear. There are so many people who can’t afford such things new.
They receive the money for your item(s) and you receive the tax benefit and the satisfaction of supporting a worthy cause. Go Green-Recycle rather than throw away. Donate your unwanted sports gear in good working condition and we'll get the item(s) back in use, not in landfills.
Whether or not you decide to sell your items and donate the cash, or you still think your items may be of use to a charity in need, proceed to Step 3 to find the right charity to accept your generous support. Step 3: Start locally to find the right charity.
It is still in great shape, but you know that you will be using your new gear exclusively. Instead of letting it collect dust, donate the old stuff to a local charity or a recycled sporting goods organization.
Sports Gift would like to thank you for your donation of sports equipment to help children living in poverty play sports. Below is a list of the sports equipment items Sports Gift accepts in each sports category. The items can be gently used or new. Please only send us items on this list. If you would like to inventory the items you donate for a receipt, print and complete the Collection Report and include a copy in your shipment.
Step 1: Determine whether or not the items you wish to donate are useful. Most charities can only make use of items that are new, unused, or nearly new. If you don't have any use for your old, tattered couch, rusty washing machine, or other used item, chances are neither will a charity.