The plant hardiness zones map outlines the different zones in Canada where various types of trees, shrubs and flowers will most likely survive. It is based on the average climatic conditions of each area. 
Haliburton is headquartered in Ontario, California, located approximately 40 miles east of Los Angeles. Centrally located to all of California's growing regions and within a one day drive of the growing regions of Arizona, Baja Mexico, Nevada and New Mexico, we have access to freshly harvested vegetables all year round. 
Canada's Plant Hardiness Zones. Canada's plant hardiness map provides insights about what can grow where. It combines information about a variety of climatic conditions across the entire country to produce a single map. The original map was developed in the 1960's for trees and shrub
Other zones are progressively milder, to 9, which is the mildest. A given zone on this map corresponds only approximately to a zone of the same number in the United States Department of Agriculture Plant Hardiness Zone Map, which has been in use in Canada for a number of years. This present map, however, presents more detail for Canada.
In Canada, Agriculture Canada has mapped out the average coldest temperature in each area and uses this to create what it calls “plant hardiness zones.” Though useful as a guideline for gardeners, it does not tell the full story. There are many factors that affect hardiness of plants. One of the most important is local conditions. In wintertime, consistent snow cover is key to plant survival as it acts as an insulator to plants. Some plants will be more likely to survive in a consistently snow-covered zone 4 garden than in a bare zone 6 garden. Haliburton County is generally considered to be zone 4. There may also be areas of 'micro climates': an area where the conditions of the zone may be moderated or made more severe by other factor
This map is reproduced from Agriculture Canada and shows the areas of winter hardiness for ornamental plants in Ontario and Western Quebec. Plant Hardiness Zones in Canada. The most important element in plant survival is minimum temperature during the winter. A given zone on this map corresponds only approximately to a zone of the same number in the United States Department of Agriculture Plant Hardiness Zone Map, which has been in use in Canada for a number of years. This present map, however, presents more detail for Canada.
Haliburton County Master Gardener Association. The group of Haliburton County Master Gardeners (HCMG) was founded in April 2002. As our name suggests, we serve Haliburton County and specialize in gardening in zone 4. Our group is comprised of twelve Master Gardeners and Master Gardeners in Training. To be a Master Gardener one must meet certain educational requirements set down by the overall organization-Master Gardeners of Ontario. Our primary role is to advise gardeners and support gardening in Haliburton County
USDA Plant Hardiness Zone Map. The 2012 USDA Plant Hardiness Zone Map is the standard by which gardeners and growers can determine which plants are most likely to thrive at a location. The map is based on the average annual minimum winter temperature, divided into 10-degree F zones. Users may also simply type in a ZIP Code and find the hardiness zone for that area. No posters of the USDA Plant Hardiness Zone Map have been printed. But state, regional, and national images of the map can be downloaded and printed in a variety of sizes and resolutions.