100 Best foods from Poland. Here comes a list of modern and traditional Polish foods, supplemented with authentic Polish recipes. I honestly believe that this is the best traditional Polish food list available online. 
Piotrus/Wikimedia Commons/CC BY 2.0. Polish traditional food, a cuisine that was suppressed during Communist times, is now making a comeback. Polish traditional foods consists of traditional Slavic fare, but also has influences from Italy and France that date back to the medieval Polish court. This stew, called bigos is a combination of cabbage, mushrooms, and various meats—traditionally pork, bacon, and delicious Polish sausage, but today bigos may also contain venison or duck. Pierogi have long been a traditional Polish food staple.
One of the things Poland is famous for is Polish food. From meats and soups to their pastry deserts, their culture is known for their amazing recipes. In the early ages Poland was not known for its food due to the climate. The Polish winters were harsh and their summers are not too fair. Because of this climate the Poles were very limited on the plants they could grow and the animals they could raise. One of the first things the Poles learned to do was make bread.
3 FOODS OF THE POLES. The cereal grains, grown on Poland's rich agricultural land, are among the country's most important dietary staples. These include wheat, rye, buckwheat, and barley. They find their way into dark bread, noodles, dumplings, and other everyday foods. Cucumbers are also eaten in a salad with sour cream, another staple of the Polish diet. Vegetables are usually eaten boiled. Meat is an important part of the Polish diet. Pork is the most popular meat, and the most commonly eaten meat dish is a fried, breaded pork cutlet served with thick sauce. Beef, ham, and sausage are also eaten regularly. The meat stew called bigos is often called the national dish of Poland. Other famous Polish dishes are golabki (cabbage leaves stuffed with ground meat and rice) and golonka (fresh ham served with horse-radish)
Oftentimes the slice of meat is rolled up and stuffed with one of many kinds of stuffing. Nowadays, this Polish food is well-known in cuisines of nations of the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth (18th century): Poland, Lithuania, Belarus and Ukraine. Placki ziemniaczane is a Polish name for a quite well-known, simple and good food made from grated potatoes fried in a fat. Egg, onion and spices (pepper, salt, sometimes marjoram) are added to the potato mass before frying.
Polish Food – Poland. DINOLINGO Poland is known for its hearty food, which keeps people warm and full during the long Polish winters. One of Poland’s most famous foods is pierogi, which are large dumplings filled most often with potatoes, cheese, and onions, but they can also have meat or fruit inside. Soup is very popular in Poland, especially barszcz or borscht, made out of beets, or żurek, a sour soup with potatoes and vegetables. Potatoes and dark, thick bread are staples of Polish meals as well. But Polish food is not all meat and potatoes: the desserts are very popular and can be found all over the country.
Probably one of the most famous Polish foods is their meats. From early one The Poles loved eating all kinds of meats. Poultry, beef, pork, and also game meat such as wild birds were very popular in early Poland. In the early ages Poland was not known for its food due to the climate. The Polish winters were harsh and their summers are not too fair. Because of this climate the Poles were very limited on the plants they could grow and the animals they could raise. One of the first things the Poles learned to do was make bread.
Polish Food. P oland is a haven for food buffs. Polish cuisine ranges from the simple to the exotic, with a dish to suit the most eclectic and eccentric of taste buds. In Poland, you have staple foods, seasonal foods as well as territorial foods. Polish food is usually very wholesome and people consume large portions. The cuisine had definite leanings towards meat, although Poles do consume diary products and vegetables and especially root vegetables.
A food that is very popular also in Poland due to the cold weather and brutal winters is soup. Many of the soups are known on a national level to Poles and are not very popular outside of Poland. The more popular soups outside of Poland are the kielbasa soup and their chicken noodle soup. In the early ages Poland was not known for its food due to the climate. The Polish winters were harsh and their summers are not too fair. Because of this climate the Poles were very limited on the plants they could grow and the animals they could raise. One of the first things the Poles learned to do was make bread.