1 Lactobezoar is a specific type of food bezoar comprising inspissated milk. 2  It is most commonly seen in premature infants receiving formula foods. 3  Pharmacobezoars (or medication bezoars) are mostly tablets or semiliquid masses of drugs, normally found following overdose of sustained-release medications. At the time, the bezoar stone was deemed to be able to cure the effects of any poison, but Pare paré believed this was. Impossible it happened that a cook At'king s court was caught stealing fine silver cutlery and was sentenced to death by. hanging
1 Phytobezoars are the most common type of bezoar. 2  Trichobezoars are composed of hair or hair-like fibers, such as carpet or clothing fibers. 3  In severe cases, known as Rapunzel's syndrome, the compacted fibers can fill the stomach with a tail extending into the small intestine. 1 In severe cases, known as Rapunzel's syndrome, the compacted fibers can fill the stomach with a tail extending into the small intestine. 2  Rapunzel's syndrome is most common in adolescent girls. 3  Pharmacobezoars are composed of medications that don't properly dissolve in your digestive tract.
I've heard that eating certain foods can cause bezoars. A bezoar (BE-zor) is a solid mass of indigestible material that accumulates in your digestive tract, sometimes causing a blockage. Bezoars usually form in the stomach, sometimes in the small intestine or, rarely, the large intestine. They can occur in children and adults. 1 In severe cases, known as Rapunzel's syndrome, the compacted fibers can fill the stomach with a tail extending into the small intestine. 2  Rapunzel's syndrome is most common in adolescent girls. 3  Pharmacobezoars are composed of medications that don't properly dissolve in your digestive tract.
A bezoar /ˈbiːzɔər/ is a mass found trapped in the gastrointestinal system (Gastrolith, usually in the stomach), though it can occur in other locations. A pseudobezoar is an indigestible object introduced intentionally into the digestive system. At the time, the bezoar stone was deemed to be able to cure the effects of any poison, but Pare paré believed this was. Impossible it happened that a cook At'king s court was caught stealing fine silver cutlery and was sentenced to death by. hanging
Gastroenterology A mass of foreign material in the stomach–food, mucus, vegetable fiber, hair, or other indigestible material, facilitated by partial or complete gastrectomy, as acid hydrolysis of gastric content is ↓; undigested bezoars cause discomfort or pain, halitosis, 
1 Trichobezoar is a bezoar formed from hair – an extreme form of hairball. 2  Humans who frequently consume hair sometimes require these to be removed. 3  The Rapunzel syndrome, a very rare and extreme case, may require surgery. At the time, the bezoar stone was deemed to be able to cure the effects of any poison, but Pare paré believed this was. Impossible it happened that a cook At'king s court was caught stealing fine silver cutlery and was sentenced to death by. hanging
A bezoar is a stone taken from the stomach of a goat and it will save you from most poisons.. —Snape lecturing in Harry Potter's first year Potion class. There is a small stock of bezoars in the Potions Classroom store cupboard, as well as at least two in the Hospital Wing. Severus Snape asks Harry Potter where to find a bezoar in Harry's first Potions class.
Bezoar: A clump or wad of swallowed food or hair. Bezoars can block the digestive system, especially the exit of the stomach. A bezoar composed of hair is called a trichobezoar. A bezoar composed of vegetable materials is called a phytobezoar. A bezoar composed of hair and food is called a trichophytobezoar.
A bezoar is a tightly packed collection of partially digested or undigested material that is unable to exit the stomach. It often occurs in patients with abnormal gastric emptying, especially those that have diabetic gastroparesis, as well as after gastric surgery. 