comments. Understanding the Roth IRA phase out process is essential if you plan on contributing to one. Roth IRAs are a potentially great investment--if you qualify to contribute to them. Here are the basics of the Roth IRA phase out and how it works. Understanding the Roth IRA phase out process is essential if you plan on contributing to one. Roth IRAs are a potentially great investment--if you qualify to contribute to them
But because of the Roth IRA phase-out rules (that we'll discuss below), splitting your allowable IRA contribution into a traditional IRA and a Roth IRA may be your only option if you want to make a full contribution for that year. 
The amount you can put into a Roth IRA as a regular contribution is reduced or eliminated if your income goes above certain levels. Most people can contribute the same amount to a Roth IRA as they would otherwise be allowed to contribute to a traditional IRA. But the amount you can contribute to a Roth IRA is phased out at certain levels of income. Special rules. There are two special rules for figuring the permitted contribution to a Roth IRA: 1  If the limit doesn’t work out to an even $10 increment, it’s rounded up to the next higher $10 increment. 2  For example, if the math says your limit should be $1371.50, this rule sets your limit at $1,380.
If you are married and file your taxes jointly, you can contribute fully if you make less than $166,000 per year. If you are married and make between $166,000 and $176,000 per year, you will be in the phase out range can be able to make a partial contribution to your Roth IRA. Many investors do not understand how the Roth IRA phase out works or what it means to them. Here are the basics of the ranges in a Roth IRA phaseout.
Roth IRA phase out. Like the Traditional IRA, the IRS has phase out rules for Roth IRA contributions. Tax filers will be able to contribute the maximum amount to their IRA if they don’t exceed certain income limits. 1  Single, Head of Household, or Married Filing Separately can contribute the maximum if their MAGI is $116,000 or less. 
Dollar Limits for Contributions to an Individual Retirement Account. You can contribute to a traditional IRA or Roth IRA or both. Your total contributions to either traditional or Roth IRAs for the year cannot exceed the lesser of your earned income for the year or the annual maximum amount. 
People who make less than $105,000 as individuals or less than $166,000 as couples can contribute a maximum of $5000 per year to their Roth IRAs if they are under age 50 and a maximum of $6000 if they are 50 or older. People that fall into the phase out category can contribute a partial amount to the Roth IRA. Understanding the Roth IRA phase out process is essential if you plan on contributing to one. Roth IRAs are a potentially great investment--if you qualify to contribute to them.
The Roth IRA phase out is the income range in which the government phases out people's ability to contribute to a Roth IRA. They do not want the wealthy to be able to take advantage of this tax shelter because that could further widen the gap between the upper and lower classes. Phase Out Ranges. Understanding the Roth IRA phase out process is essential if you plan on contributing to one. Roth IRAs are a potentially great investment--if you qualify to contribute to them.
The Roth IRA phase out is an income range that people can contribute a partial amount to their Roth IRA. The maximum contribution to a Roth IRA is $5000 per year. If you are over 50, you can contribute $6000. In order to make this will contribution, you have to be below a certain income level. If you are barely above that income level, you may fit into the phase out range and be able to make a partial contribution. Many investors do not understand how the Roth IRA phase out works or what it means to them. Here are the basics of the ranges in a Roth IRA phaseout.