A prefix is placed at the beginning of a word to change its meaning. For example, the suffix re-means either again or back as in return, repeat or refurbish. In the sentence 'For example, the suffix re-means either again or back as in return, repeat or refurbish you shall correct re-as being a prefix and not suffix as mentioned in your explanation. 1  Login or register to post comments.
A prefix is a letter or a group of letters attached to the beginning of a word that partly indicates its meaning. For example, the word prefix itself begins with a prefix-- pre- , which generally means before.. Understanding the meanings of the common prefixes can help us deduce the meanings of new words that we encounter. But be careful: some prefixes (such as in-) have more than one meaning (in this case, not and into). Common Prefixes With Definitions and Examples. The prefix uni-means one, as in unicorn (literally one horn), unison (one sound), and uniform (one shape). (PraxisPhotography/Getty Images).
An antibody is a protein that is produced in B cells and used by the immune system of humans and other vertebrate animals to identify a specific foreign object like a bacterium or a virus. Monoclonal antibodies are those that were produced in identical cells, often artificially, and so share the same target object. This means that antibodies with the same source and target substems are only distinguished by their prefix. Even antibodies targeting exactly the same structure are differently prefixed, such as the adalimumab and golimumab, both of which are TNF inhibitors but differ in their chemical structure.
3. Vaccines-In some cases anti-idiotypic antibodies actually stimulate B cells to make antibody and thus they can be used as a vaccine. This approach is being tried to immunize against highly dangerous pathogens that cannot be safely used as a vaccine. 
1. Combining form meaning against, opposing, or, in relation to symptoms and diseases, curative. 2. Prefix denoting an antibody (immunoglobulin) specific for the thing indicated; for example, antitoxin (antibody specific for a toxin). [G. anti, against, opposite, instead of]. word element [Gr.], counteracting; effective against. 1. Combining form meaning against, opposing, or, in relation to symptoms and diseases, curative. 2. Combining form meaning an antibody (immunoglobulin) specific for the thing indicated (e.g., antitoxin, as in 
An antibody (Ab), also known as an immunoglobulin (Ig), is a large, Y-shape protein produced by plasma cells that is used by the immune system to identify and neutralize pathogens such as bacteria and viruses. The antibody recognizes a unique molecule of the harmful agent, called an antigen, via the variable region. The membrane-bound form of an antibody may be called a surface immunoglobulin (sIg) or a membrane immunoglobulin (mIg). It is part of the B cell receptor (BCR), which allows a B cell to detect when a specific antigen is present in the body and triggers B cell activation.
Though strictly speaking, an antibody is not the same as an immunoglobulin; B cells can produce two types of immunoglobulins-surface immunoglobulins, which are B cell receptors; and secreted immunoglobulins, which are antibodies. So antibodies are one of two classes of immunoglobulins. The membrane-bound form of an antibody may be called a surface immunoglobulin (sIg) or a membrane immunoglobulin (mIg). It is part of the B cell receptor (BCR), which allows a B cell to detect when a specific antigen is present in the body and triggers B cell activation.
anti-. 1. Combining form meaning against, opposing, or, in relation to symptoms and diseases, curative. 2. Combining form meaning an antibody (immunoglobulin) specific for the thing indicated (e.g., antitoxin, as in antibody specific for a toxin). [G. anti, against, opposite, instead of]. Do not confuse this prefix with ante