Image: ABC. The View producers have axed Nicolle Wallace as one of the show’s regular co-hosts but offered to bring back her head on a platter every so often and let it talk, as one of its stable of rotating guest contributors. File that under With Friends Like These.
Nicolle Wallace. Nicolle Wallace will not be returning to The View in any capacity after turning down an offer to appear as an occasional contributor on the show, Variety reports. Our friend Nicolle Wallace is going to leave the show at the conclusion of the season, executive Bill Wolff told staff in a note.
After just one season at the Hot Topics table, Nicolle Wallace will not be returning to “ The View ” next season as a daily co-host, Variety has learned. The network has, however, offered the conservative personality a contract to appear as a contributor on the show from time to time.
After reports that she would be exiting The View at the end of this season, co-host Nicolle Wallace confirmed that she's leaving on Thursday's show, the last live episode of The View 's current season. I never thought I would get this job in a million years.
In addition to Wallace, Rosie Perez will also not be returning after this season. However, it was recently announced that next season, comedian Michelle Collins will join Whoopi Goldberg and Raven-Symone on the View panel.
The political analyst joined the show last year. Having worked with her for most of the last year, you know the warmth, smarts, and professionalism she has brought to the job every day, executive producer Bill Wolff wrote in a note shared with show's staff today.
ABC/Lorenzo Bevilaqua. Another face is leaving The View. Nicolle Wallace is departing the all-female talk show after one season. She opened up about her decision on Thursday's episode, telling her co-hosts and the audience that she has thoroughly enjoyed her time on the show and the women she got to work with.
Our friend Nicole Wallace is going to leave the show at the conclusion of the season, executive Bill Wolff wrote in a staff memo acquired by news outlets.