Paden is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 5 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Pa-den. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 4190 in baby name popularity for boys with 24 occurrences. It ranked 15920 in popular baby names for girls with 6 occurrences. View the Paden Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Paden has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Paden to other names. The names Ayashe, Paidin are all forms of Pa
Paden's root is Old English, and the name Paden means fighter's estate. Paden is an alternate form of Peyton (Old English): place name. Shown below is a comparison of the usage of the boy name Paden and related names. Prominent variation forms of Paden (#unlisted) are Payton (#644 a year ago) and Peyton (#210) .
Paden is a rare first name for men but a very popular surname for both adults and children (#7554 out of 150436, Top 5%). (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is a comparison of the usage of the boy name Paden and related names. Prominent variation forms of Paden (#unlisted) are Payton (#644 a year ago) and Peyton (#210) .
Paden /pa-den/ as a boys' name. Paden's root is Old English, and the name Paden means fighter's estate. Paden is an alternate form of Peyton (Old English): place name. Compare last name Peden. Shown below is a comparison of the usage of the boy name Paden and related names. Prominent variation forms of Paden (#unlisted) are Payton (#644 a year ago) and Peyton (#210) .
[ 2 syll. pa-den, pad-en ] The baby boy name Paden is pronounced P EY DAHN †. Paden's language of origin is Middle English. Paden is a variant transcription of Patton (English). Paden is a seldom used baby name for boys. It is not listed within the top 1000 names. Baby names that sound like Paden include Payden, Paydon, Padden, Paddin, Paddon, Paiten, Patan, Paten (English), Paton (English), Pattan, Patun, Patwen, Payten, Paytun, Peaton, Peighton, Peyten, Peytun, Paitun, and Patackin. 
Paden. Their name is very unusual, but extremely unique. Paden's are usually very shy, but sweet. They are naturally good natured, and are very kind. They are drawn to kindness, and they don't judge. They have beautiful eyes, with a sparkling smile to match. 
The name Paden is a Scottish baby name. In Scottish the meaning of the name Paden is: royal. SoulUrge Number: 6. Expression Number: 22. People with this name have a deep inner desire for a stable, loving family or community, and a need to work with others and to be appreciated. People with this name tend to be a powerful force to all whose lives they touch. They are capable, charismatic leaders who often undertake large endeavors with great success.
Comments and insights on the name Paden: | Edit. Share what you know! Personal experiences with the name Paden: | Edit. This is an old family surname of mine, and I've always LOVED it for either a boy or girl (preferably a girl, I think). Meanings and history of the name Paden: | Edit. Share what you know! Famous real-life people named Paden: | Edit. Share what you know! Paden in song, story & screen: | Edit. Paden is the name of Kevin Kline's character in the movie Silverado.
Meaning of Paden. Scottish name. In Scottish, the name Paden means-royal.The name Paden originated as an Scottish name. The name Paden is most often used as a boy name or male name. Scottish Name Meaning-royal. Origin-Scotland. Global Star Registery-Name a star after someone special!