If you're having symptoms from gallstones, it's because as your gallbladder tries to squeeze, some of the gallstone is blocking the outflow of bile that is stored in your gallbladder, Martin says. You're squeezing against a closed door, and that's why it hurts. If you eat fatty foods, that makes it squeeze more.. Changing your diet won't get rid of gallstones that are already there, but eating a healthy, balanced variety of nutrients and limiting the amount of saturated fats and cholesterol-heavy foods you eat may help ease your symptoms. Try to avoid or limit these high-fat foods in your diet: 1  Fried foods.
Gallbladder Friendly Foods. If you are concerned about your gallbladder, enrich your diet with fruits and vegetables. Eating a primarily plant-based diet will help feed your body the vitamins and nutrients it craves. Consuming more fruits and vegetables will also help you to cut out other junk food you normally eat. There is no one single fruit or vegetable that you should eat more of to maintain gallbladder health. Eat a wide variety of color and be sure to get your recommended servings: 2 cups of fruit and 2 ½ cups of vegetables, for the best gallbladder health.
Yet in a small percentage of people, gallstones can trigger a variety of symptoms, such as abdominal pain, bloating, nausea, and vomiting. When gallstone symptoms are frequent, recurrent, and especially uncomfortable, the typical treatment is surgery to remove the gallbladder. Experts discuss foods that are good for your gallbladder, as well as what not to eat when you have gallbladder problems. By Stephanie Watson. WebMD Feature. Reviewed by Venkat Mohan, MD.
Healthy Foods for the Gallbladder. Whether or not you are at risk for gallstones, it's always a good idea to keep your body at a healthy weight and eat a diet that is low in fat and cholesterol, moderate in calories, and high in fiber. Changing your diet won't get rid of gallstones that are already there, but eating a healthy, balanced variety of nutrients and limiting the amount of saturated fats and cholesterol-heavy foods you eat may help ease your symptoms. Try to avoid or limit these high-fat foods in your diet: 1  Fried foods.
Flax oil and omega 3 fats can be consumed with meals to help break down foods without adding to the cholesterol content of the food. Consuming lean foods can help you remove the risk of developing gallstones. Consume dairy products that are low fat such as skim milk to avoid the extra oils in the cream. Substitute whole grains for breads, cereals and pastas. 
Bile aids in the digestive process. Although a small organ, problems with your gallbladder can be painful. While there are no specific foods that will keep your gallbladder healthy and functioning, a healthy lifestyle and a diet rich in fruits and vegetables is recommended for gallbladder health. There is no one single fruit or vegetable that you should eat more of to maintain gallbladder health. Eat a wide variety of color and be sure to get your recommended servings: 2 cups of fruit and 2 ½ cups of vegetables, for the best gallbladder health.
Fish and other healthy foods are good choices after gall bladder surgery. Your gallbladder, a small sac located underneath your liver, stores and releases bile to help you digest fats. If you have a tendency toward developing gallstones, hard aggregations of cholesterol or calcium that can block the opening of the gallbladder, you might require surgery to remove the gallbladder. Certain foods may be preferable and some may be better to avoid after gallbladder surgery. If you are like most people, your body probably manufactures far more cholesterol than you consume in your diet. Since you no longer have a gallbladder and don't have to be concerned about gallstone formation, you may not need to curb your cholesterol intake for the purpose of preventing gallstones.
What to Eat Recovering patients should eat low-fat, high fiber foods, including whole grains, fruits, vegetables and lean meats What to Avoid After gallbladder surgery, patients should avoid high-saturated fat, greasy or hard-to-digest foods such as cream-based soups, dairy or fast foods. Fruits and vegetables offer a lot of variety in color and flavor, so you can eat different types each day Examples of good fruits and vegetables to eat after gall bladder surgery include watermelon, apples, bananas, peaches, cucumbers, tomatoes, green beans, carrots and broccoli.