Researchers suggest that patients scheduled for a PET scan should avoid having coffee for sometime before the scan, as even a normal amount of caffeine in the beverage can cause distortions and present a false image. Reference: Saint Louis University, News release, June 2005.
A PET scan is the one thing. A PET scan is the one thing I haven't had, and, like some of the others, my onco saw no reason for one. If you are really concerned, talk to your onco about who should have one and exactly why he hasn't ordered one for you.
no Caffeine before PET SCAN. I read in MEN'S HEALTH that don't drink caffeine 24 hours before a PET SCAN becaused caffeinated beverages before a PET scan may obscure the view of vital organs. I was told not to eat or drink like after Midnight and to have a low carb diet the night before (I think for the tracer to work better).
Drinking coffee before having a PET scan will interfere with the results as caffeine can affect the myocardial uptake, or the amount of tracer used. With intake of caffeine more fluorodeoxyglucose clusters around the heart, making it difficult to take a look into the lesions of the heart.
In one continuous full-body scan (usually about 30 minutes), PET captures images of miniscule changes in the body's metabolism caused by the growth of abnormal cells, while CT images simultaneously allow physicians to pinpoint the exact location, size and shape of the diseased tissue or tumor.
In this process a tracer like fluorodeoxyglucose is injected in the body that can be traced with the help of the tomography machine. Drinking coffee before having a PET scan will interfere with the results as caffeine can affect the myocardial uptake, or the amount of tracer used. With intake of caffeine more fluorodeoxyglucose clusters around the heart, making it difficult to take a look into the lesions of the heart.
Researchers suggest that patients scheduled for a PET scan should avoid having coffee for sometime before the scan, as even a normal amount of caffeine in the beverage can cause distortions and present a false image.