Although tachycardia can be caused by an emotional response to stress, your tachycardia should be evaluated medically. Tachycardia can be related to serious medical conditions. For many people a fast heart beat is a waking nightmare. A constant reminder that something isn’t right. I think of a fast heart beat (tachycardia) in less intense terms. I consider it a sign of stress and not death. Tachycardia (100 heart beats per minute or more) simply isn’t the killer you think it is. This is an important topic to address because it’s a symptom that has likely affected you. 
Atrial or Supraventricular Tachycardia (SVT). Atrial or Supraventricular tachycardia (SVT) is a fast heart rate that starts in the upper chambers of the heart. Some forms are called paroxysmal atrial tachycardia (PAT) or paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia (PSVT). Ventricular tachycardia is a fast heart rate that starts in the heart's lower chambers (ventricles). It can be a life-threatening heart rhythm and requires rapid diagnosis and treatment.
In some cases, tachycardia may cause no symptoms or complications. However, tachycardia can seriously disrupt normal heart function, increase the risk of stroke, or cause sudden cardiac arrest or death. Treatments may help control a rapid heartbeat or manage diseases contributing to tachycardia. Tachycardia is a faster than normal heart rate at rest. A healthy adult heart normally beats 60 to 100 times a minute when a person is at rest. If you have tachycardia (tak-ih-KAHR-dee-uh), the heart rate in the upper chambers or lower chambers of the heart, or both, is increased.
An irregular heartbeat is an arrhythmia (also called dysrhythmia). Heart rates can also be irregular. A normal heart rate is 50 to 100 beats per minute. Arrhythmias and abnormal heart rates don't necessarily occur together. Arrhythmias can occur with a normal heart rate, or with heart rates that are slow (called bradyarrhythmias -- less than 50 beats per minute). Arrhythmias can also occur with rapid heart rates (called tachyarrhythmias -- faster than 100 beats per minute). 
A rapid or fast heartbeat is when your heart is beating faster than normal. A normal heart rate is 60 to 100 beats per minute. Tachycardia is considered a heart rate of greater than 100 beats per minute. If you are exercising, or performing any kind of activity, your heart will normally beat faster. This allows your heart to pump blood through out your body, to provide oxygen to the tissues.
Tachycardia is a general term used to describe a rapid heartbeat. In some instances, tachycardia is the body’s normal reaction to situations that cause increased levels of adrenaline and generally poses little or no health risk. However, other types of tachycardia can be more serious. 
Atrial fibrillation (AF) is caused by an irregular, rapid quivering of the atria, the upper chambers of the heart. AF can result in ineffective pumping of blood, pooling of blood in the atria, and the formation of blood clots. Sinus tachycardia is a rapid, regular heartbeat that is over 100 beats per minute in adults. Sinus tachycardia may be normal in many cases and occurs as a response to many common conditions, such as exercise, stress, caffeine, illness, pain, or medication side effects. 
How fast is a dangerous heart beat. http://www.chacha.com/question/how-fast-is-a-dangerous-heart-beat. An arrhythmia is a change in the rhythm of your heartbeat. When the heart beats too fast, it's called tachycardia. Health related question in topics Heart Beat .We found some answers as below for this question How fast is a dangerous heart beat,you can compare them. A: An arrhythmia is a change in the rhythm of your heartbeat.
When your heartbeat speeds up for no apparent reason, however, that may be a sign of an abnormally rapid heartbeat — a condition called tachycardia (tachy means fast; cardia refers to the heart). Tachycardia can cause the heart to beat faster than 100 beats per minute, in some cases racing up to 400 beats per minute. Most Dangerous Rapid Heart Rhythms. Sudden rapid heartbeats originating in the ventricles are the most dangerous arrhythmias. Rate If the heart rate is rapid, or greater than 100 beats a minute, it is considered a tachycardia. Alternatively, a slow heart rate, below 60 beats a minute, is known as a bradycardia.