Safety Information: The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) permits Methyl Benzoate, Ethyl Benzoate, Propyl Benzoate, Isopropyl Benzoate and Isobutyl Benzoate to be used as flavoring agents for direct addition to food. Butyl Benzoate is permitted for use as an indirect food additive as a component of adhesives. Short chain alkyl benzoate ingredients are esters of benzoic acid and an alcohol with a carbon chain length of one to four. These ingredients include Methyl Benzoate, Ethyl Benzoate, Propyl Benzoate, Butyl Benzoate, Isopropyl Benzoate and Isobutyl Benzoate.
This is the mechanisms of for nitration of methyl benzoate: Result and observation Melting point for 1st= 75˚C - 78˚C 2nd= 76˚C - 78˚C From the literature boling point which is melting point for methyl m-nitrobenzoate whic is 78-80˚C, we can conclude that the product that we get is methyl m-nitrobenzoate. The actual yield methyl – 3- nitrobenzoate crude product is 2.6996 g while the theoretical yield is 3.9852 g .The percentage yield that we get is 67.74%.The melting point is 75˚C - 78˚C and 76˚C - 78˚C, the value is closed to the literature value which is 78˚C.
The European Union lists salts and esters of benzoic acid (including Methyl Benzoate, Ethyl Benzoate, Propyl Benzoate, Butyl Benzoate, Isopropyl Benzoate and Isobutyl Benzoate) as preservatives that may be safety used in cosmetics at concentrations up to 0.5% (See Annex IV). Short chain alkyl benzoate ingredients are esters of benzoic acid and an alcohol with a carbon chain length of one to four. These ingredients include Methyl Benzoate, Ethyl Benzoate, Propyl Benzoate, Butyl Benzoate, Isopropyl Benzoate and Isobutyl Benzoate.
- Make sure to return the top to the bottles. - Do not return unused chemicals and reagents to the original bottles. CHEM 322L Experiment 7: Nitration of Methyl Benzoate 3 Experiment Add 1.0 mL of concentrated sulfuric acid to a large reaction tube and place the tube in an ice water bath. Add 0.4 mL of methyl benzoate. Carefully add 0.5 mL of concentrated sulfuric acid and 0.5 mL of concentrated nitric acid to a small vial, which has been cooled in ice. Add this acidic mixture dropwise to the large reaction tube. Stir after each drop.
The methyl benzoate and PhMgBr react within seconds, causing the Et 2 O to reflux. Drip the remaining solution in at a rapid rate with continued cooling. Note the color transitions of the reaction as methyl benzoate is added. Heat the reaction for an additional 5-10 minutes from a warm water bath. Work Up Quenching the Reaction: Into a large beaker, add ca 15 g (ca. 30 mL) of crushed ice and 25 mL of 10% H 2 SO 4. Detach the reaction flask from the condenser. 
What is the color of methyl red at pH 6? it is red in pH under 4.4, yellow in pH over 6.2, and orange in between. Methyl orange is a halochromic substance. When it binds to existing hydrogen and hydroxide ions in solution, these bonds cause changes in the flow of electrons, which in turn … affects the amount of light absorbed. This is perceptible to the naked eye as a color change in the solution. 7 people found this useful.
Methyl benzoate is an organic compound. It is an ester with the chemical formula C 6 H 5 CO 2 CH 3. It is a colorless liquid that is poorly soluble in water, but miscible with organic solvents. Methyl benzoate has a pleasant smell, strongly reminiscent of the fruit of the feijoa tree, and it is used in perfumery. It also finds use as a solvent and as a pesticide used to attract insects such as orchid bees. Methyl benzoate can be isolated from the freshwater fern Salvinia molesta. It is one of many compounds that is attractive to males of various species of orchid bees, which apparently gather the chemical to synthesize pheromones; it is commonly used as bait to attract and collect these bees for study.
Notes: A. The methyl benzoate is soluble in the sulfuric acid at this step and should produce a clear colorless solution. A yellow solution may indicate an unclean flask or an impurity introduced inadvertently. B. For convenience, two or more students can share a larger batch of 50:50 conc. C. The nitration of methyl benzoate runs smoothly at nearly the rate that the HNO 3 is added. It is essential to keep the temperature within the specified limits, otherwise the yield falls; at 50°C the yield drops to about 70%, while at 70°C the yield drops to about 50%.