Tangerine. by Edward Bloor. The Book. Paul Fisher's family is moving from Texas to Florida for a number of reasons. The most important one seems to be so that Paul's older brother Erik can impress the football scouts at some major universities. Indeed, most of what his parents do seems to be part of what Paul calls The Great Erik Fisher Football Dream..
We're going to go out on a limb here and blame dad. (And partly mom.) For some reason, Mr. Fisher identifies with Erik. Any insult to Erik, like when the newscasters make fun on his slide at the football game, is an insult to him. But here's something to think about. Mr. Fisher is as big a coward as Erik. He won't take responsibility for Erik's actions, just like Erik won't take responsibility. Erik makes his sidekicks do all the dirty work; Mr. Fisher makes Erik win all the glory.
Make Way for Numero Uno. Now that he's in high school, and a champion placekicker on his football team, Erik's parents lavish their attention on him all the more. Erik has learned that he can win praise, followers, and ultimately, power, just by trotting out onto the football field occasionally to kick a ball. Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde. We think the freakiest thing about Erik is how well he can play the part of an earnest, wholesome, upstanding young man. Whenever adults are around, he puts on a show. Like Paul says about one encounter, Erik was as phony as he needed to be (1.3.39).
Paul Fisher is the main character from the book Tangerine by Edward Bloor, a story about how a young boy moves to Tangerine, Florida for his father's job. He moves to this hou … se with his mother, father, and his attention craving brother Erik, but little does Paul know is that this town has many secrets. Paul Fisher doesn't really like football because his brother, Erik, plays it. Erik is rude and cruel to Paul and his friends, and Paul does not look up to him at all. The Eri … k Fisher Football Dream, as stated in the book, makes up most of Erik's and Erik's parents' lives. Paul doesn't want anything to do with it
Paul runs back to his house, where he newly remembers that Erik, in the belief that Paul exposed him and his friend Vincent Castor for spray painting a wall in their old neighborhood, held Paul's eyelids open while Vincent sprayed paint into Paul's eyes, and confronts his parents for concealment of the story. After a quarrel with Paul, Joey returns to Lake Windsor. Throughout the story, houses in Paul's neighborhood are fumigated for termites and palmetto bugs, and many of the houses are robbed by Erik and his friend Arthur. A man named Luis is introduced as the brother of Theresa and Tino.
We find out that he damaged his eyes at age 5—they say by a solar eclipse—but Paul doesn’t remember that. We also learn about Paul’s bully brother, Erik and the Erik Fisher Football Dream, which is his father’s obsession to get Erik into a top football college. Part 2 focuses on Paul’s move to Tangerine Middle School and his success as a soccer player there. Because the story is told from Paul’s point of view, we see Paul’s memories from the past slowly return. We also see his thought process as he watches the “Erik Fisher Football Dream” go on, even when he knows his brother is downright evil. SYMBOLISM There are many important symbols in the novel.
Because of the structure of the novel, we see what Paul knows and the disconnect between this and what he shares. Communication is especially a problem in Paul’s family: between his parents, between Erik and his parents, between Paul and his parents, and between Paul and Erik. Because the story is told from Paul’s point of view, we see Paul’s memories from the past slowly return. We also see his thought process as he watches the “Erik Fisher Football Dream” go on, even when he knows his brother is downright evil. SYMBOLISM There are many important symbols in the novel.
Novel Summary [edit]. At the beginning of the story, the brothers Erik Fisher and Paul Fisher move houses, with their parents, from Houston, Texas to Lake Windsor Downs in rural Tangerine, Florida. Erik, the older son, looks forward to a football scholarship at the university of his choice. After a quarrel with Paul, Joey returns to Lake Windsor. Throughout the story, houses in Paul's neighborhood are fumigated for termites and palmetto bugs, and many of the houses are robbed by Erik and his friend Arthur. A man named Luis is introduced as the brother of Theresa and Tino.
A couple of days after Erik and Arthur, made fun of Joey, karma was just around the corner. Erik became the laughing stock of the city when, Lake Windsors's football team was up against Cypress Bay. Antoine Thomas was hold the ball for Erik. Erik was getting ready to kick when all of a sudden, Antoine moved the ball away. Erik kicked the air, and he landed on the ground. 