Pants are usually covered (at least in public) with another article of clothing called 'trousers'. Trousers cover the body from below the torso to above the feet, and Americans call trousers pants. What Americans refer to as 'shorts' or 'underwear' is actually a pair of pants to the British.
An excert from here : Slacks implies pants of certain materials which are not part of a suit (jeans are not slacks, and you would not refer to the pair of trousers that came with a suit as slacks.) It is also more common to use slacks to refer to pants worn by women, while men would wear trousers. Think of a man's suit, the type of cloth; now imagine just the trousers, and that there is no matching jacket: those would be slacks. Delving further into the question of pants/slacks/trousers/jeans, all of these are pants of some kind, at least in US vernacular.
Trousers are worn on the hips or waist and may be held up by their own fastenings, a belt or suspenders (braces). Leggings are form-fitting trousers, of a clingy material, often knitted cotton and spandex (elastane). Various people in the fashion industry use the words trouser or pant instead of trousers or pants. This is nonstandard usage. The words trousers and pants are pluralia tantum, nouns that generally only appear in plural form—much like the words scissors and tongs.
Trousers (pants in North America and Australia) are an item of clothing worn from the waist to the ankles, covering both legs separately (rather than with cloth extending across both legs as in robes, skirts, and dresses). In the UK the word pants generally means underwear and not trousers. Various people in the fashion industry use the words trouser or pant instead of trousers or pants. This is nonstandard usage. The words trousers and pants are pluralia tantum, nouns that generally only appear in plural form—much like the words scissors and tongs.
In most of the Western world, trousers have been worn since ancient times and throughout the Medieval period, becoming the most common form of lower-body clothing for adult males in the modern world, although shorts are also widely worn, and kilts and other garments may be worn in various regions and cultures. Various people in the fashion industry use the words trouser or pant instead of trousers or pants. This is nonstandard usage. The words trousers and pants are pluralia tantum, nouns that generally only appear in plural form—much like the words scissors and tongs.
Trousers is generally a term for pants that have a matching jacket, though the term pants is used as well. Slacks, as I said above, are dressy without being formal, and do not have a matching jacket. Jeans, on the other hand, are jeans. Denim riveted if truly authentic, exterior back pockets ... Think of a man's suit, the type of cloth; now imagine just the trousers, and that there is no matching jacket: those would be slacks. Delving further into the question of pants/slacks/trousers/jeans, all of these are pants of some kind, at least in US vernacular.
pants. In British English, pants are a piece of clothing worn by men, women, or children under their other clothes. Pants have two holes to put your legs through and elastic round the waist or hips to keep them up. Men's pants are sometimes referred to as underpants.
trousers. Trousers are a piece of clothing that covers your body from the waist downwards, and covers each leg separately. Trousers is a plural noun. You use a plural form of a verb with it. trousers. 1  fob-A small pocket close to the waistband of trousers. 2  galluses-Another name for suspenders for trousers. 3  plus fours-Got their name (c. 1920) from the fact that such trousers were made four inches longer than standard knickerbockers or shorts, which came to just above the knee.
Top 10 unbelievable historical concurrencies. Trousers is the British word for what Americans commonly refer to as pants.. These are garments worn on the lower body with fabric that circles around each leg. Stretchy waist, side-zip trousers are a comfortable alternative to pants that zip up in the front and then button on top of that. They are way less constricting, and if your top is long enough, you can get away with unzipping somewhat after a meal. Every winter, I put on about 5 pounds.