there are 340 calories in 1 serving of krispy kreme honey bun calorie breakdown 57 % fat 38 % carbs 5 % protein all trademarks copyright and other forms of intellectual property are property of their respective owners blog faq terms privacy find buddies food list brand list report abuse contact other sites platform professional 2015 fatsecret all rights reserved
Krispy Kreme's Honey Bun is another one of the packaged goodies I picked up from the Krispy Kreme Blogger Summit. It's somewhat like a cinnamon roll but more bread-like because it doesn't have as many swirls. Baked goods are always better warm but what was surprising was that microwaving gave Krispy Kreme's Honey Bun a taste and texture very reminiscent of a Krispy Kreme Original Glazed with a hint of cinnamon. It had that same lightness and melt-in-your-mouth texture. Very nice!
Since it works (and is even recommended) for their donuts, I decided that 8 seconds in the microwave was in order. Baked goods are always better warm but what was surprising was that microwaving gave Krispy Kreme's Honey Bun a taste and texture very reminiscent of a Krispy Kreme Original Glazed with a hint of cinnamon. It had that same lightness and melt-in-your-mouth texture. Very nice!
percent daily values are based on a 2000 calorie diet your daily values may be higher or lower depending on your calorie needs information for this food was submitted to the fatsecret food database by a mobile user on 28 may 11 all trademarks copyright and other forms of intellectual property are property of their respective owners blog faq terms privacy find buddies food list brand list report abuse contact other sites platform professional 2015 fatsecret all rights reserved
(-) Information is currently not available for this nutrient. * Percent Daily Values are based on a 2,000 calorie diet. Your daily values may be higher or lower depending on your calorie needs:**. ** Percent Daily Values listed below are intended for adults and children over 4 years of age. We’re committed to providing low prices every day, on everything. So if you find a current lower price from an online retailer on an identical, in-stock product, tell us and we’ll match it. See more details at Online Price Match.
Tempt your taste buds with our sweet take on the classic treat. Our proprietay sweet dough makes it like no other. Try it covered in our original glazed or simply white iced. 