Now that these families have given birth to U.S. citizens, the families are eligible for benefits such as WIC and food stamps. Benefits such as these are for low income families. Illegal aliens often work in low paying jobs so they now qualify for benefits. Illegal immigrants enter the country by overstaying their visa. 
More than 43 percent of all food stamps are given to illegals, said a typical claim, this one from a Facebook post promoting 10 Illegal Alien Facts.. When PolitiFact researched the numbers, though, we found the claim ridiculously false and rated it Pants on Fire. The Pew Hispanic Center put the number at 11.2 million in 2010. On top of that, most social welfare programs bar illegal immigrants from receiving benefits and require proof of immigration status. That includes food stamps, as well as cash welfare assistance, Medicaid, and even the new health care law.
About 46.4 million people receive food stamps, so 43 percent of that number would be just under 20 million. That significantly exceeds estimates for how many illegal immigrants are in the country. The Pew Hispanic Center put the number at 11.2 million in 2010. On top of that, most social welfare programs bar illegal immigrants from receiving benefits and require proof of immigration status. That includes food stamps, as well as cash welfare assistance, Medicaid, and even the new health care law.
A reader asked us to check out this Facebook post with 10 claims about illegal aliens. A reader recently sent us a Facebook post with 10 Illegal Alien Facts.. One of them was that more than 43 percent of all food stamps are given to illegals.. We decided to take a look -- and quickly found the claim was preposterous.
In March 2012, the most recent month for which figures are available, a total of 46.4 million people received food stamps, so 43 percent of that number would be slightly less than 20 million. For obvious reasons, the numbers of illegal immigrants is much trickier to track. A reader recently sent us a Facebook post with 10 Illegal Alien Facts.. One of them was that more than 43 percent of all food stamps are given to illegals.. We decided to take a look -- and quickly found the claim was preposterous.
So it’s mathematically impossible for more than 43 percent of all food stamps to be given to illegals -- there simply aren’t enough undocumented immigrants in the country to make the math work. Nor does the math work if you choose a month before the number of food stamp recipients rose due to the recession. A reader recently sent us a Facebook post with 10 Illegal Alien Facts.. One of them was that more than 43 percent of all food stamps are given to illegals.. We decided to take a look -- and quickly found the claim was preposterous.
The estimates show that 51.8 percent of households with children headed by legal immigrants used at least one major welfare program in 2009. For households with children headed by an illegal immigrant, 71 percent are estimated to use at least one program. The 2010 CPS shows that the average payment received for immigrant households with children using a cash program is almost identical — $6,253 a year for immigrant households and $6,297 for natives. To find an average payment for food stamps and Medicaid, the 2009 CPS must be used.
Based on socio-demographic characteristics, we estimate that 51.8 percent of households with children headed by a legal immigrant used at least one welfare program in 2009, compared to 71 percent for illegal immigrant households. Illegal immigrants generally receive benefits on behalf of their U.S.-born children. The 2010 CPS shows that the average payment received for immigrant households with children using a cash program is almost identical — $6,253 a year for immigrant households and $6,297 for natives. To find an average payment for food stamps and Medicaid, the 2009 CPS must be used.
1 We estimate that 52 percent of households with children headed by legal immigrants used at least one welfare program in 2009, compared to 71 percent for illegal immigrant households with children. 2  Illegal immigrants generally receive benefits on behalf of their U.S.-born children. The 2010 CPS shows that the average payment received for immigrant households with children using a cash program is almost identical — $6,253 a year for immigrant households and $6,297 for natives. To find an average payment for food stamps and Medicaid, the 2009 CPS must be used.
It's true that some children of illegal immigrants qualify for benefits if they were born in the United States and are citizens. (Critics derisively call them anchor babies.) But there aren't nearly enough of those types of children -- an estimated 4 million -- to account for 43 percent of food stamp recipients. The Pew Hispanic Center put the number at 11.2 million in 2010. On top of that, most social welfare programs bar illegal immigrants from receiving benefits and require proof of immigration status. That includes food stamps, as well as cash welfare assistance, Medicaid, and even the new health care law.