Booneville Forum. Join the discussion! This forum covers Booneville, KY local community news, events for your calendar, and updates from colleges, churches, sports, and classifieds. Post your comments on these topics to this board. Give us your feedback on government issues or coverage from TV stations and Radio networks in your area.
Booneville, the seat of Owsley County, is located on the South Fork of Kentucky River at KY 11 and KY 30. The site was once known as Boones Station, Daniel Boone having once camped in the area, and Moores Station, for a family of late eighteenth century settlers. 
Booneville, KY-Peer Comparisons by Rank and Percentile. The table below compares Booneville to the other 524 incorporated cities, towns and CDPs in Kentucky by rank and percentile using July 1, 2015 data. The location Ranked # 1 has the highest value. A location that ranks higher than 75% of its peers would be in the 75th percentile of the peer group.
Booneville Town Facts. Booneville, Kentucky. You can view Booneville venues that host many Booneville KY events every year. You can find a ton of properties for sale if you search the Booneville page on Zillow. Interest rates for Booneville are at historic lows as well. Booneville Kentucky has a latitude of 37.4818 and a longitude of -83.6653
Booneville-area historical tornado activity is below Kentucky state average. It is 35% smaller than the overall U.S. average. Could a Northern Kentucky subforum be added? (41 replies). Latest news from Booneville, KY collected exclusively by city-data.com from local newspapers, TV, and radio stations. Ancestries: United States (60.3%), English (13.2%), Dutch (7.4%), German (5.9%), Irish (1.5%).
According to our research of Kentucky and other state lists there were 6 registered sex offenders living in Booneville, Kentucky as of October 06, 2015. The ratio of number of residents in Booneville to the number of sex offenders is 13 to 1. Could a Northern Kentucky subforum be added? (41 replies). Latest news from Booneville, KY collected exclusively by city-data.com from local newspapers, TV, and radio stations. Ancestries: United States (60.3%), English (13.2%), Dutch (7.4%), German (5.9%), Irish (1.5%).
Booneville is a 6th-class city in Owsley County, Kentucky, in the United States. The population was 81 at the 2010 census. It is the county seat of Owsley County. It is located at the junction of Kentucky Route 11 and Kentucky Route 30 on the South Fork of the Kentucky River. The town was originally named Moore's Station after its chief landowner. It was renamed Boone's Station and then Booneville in honor of the American frontiersman, Daniel Boone
The City of Booneville had a population of 82 as of July 1, 2015. Booneville ranks in the lower quartile for Population Density and Diversity Index when compared to the other cities, towns and Census Designated Places (CDPs) in Kentucky. See peer rankings below. The primary coordinate point for Booneville is located at latitude 37.4735 and longitude -83.6828 in Owsley County. The table below compares Booneville to the other 524 incorporated cities, towns and CDPs in Kentucky by rank and percentile using July 1, 2015 data. The location Ranked # 1 has the highest value. A location that ranks higher than 75% of its peers would be in the 75th percentile of the peer group.
Local news for Booneville, KY continually updated from thousands of sources on the web. 