1 Spasms may affect many different types of muscles in the body, leading to many different symptoms and presentations. 2  Spasms of skeletal muscles are most common and are often due to dehydration and electrolyte abnormalities. 3  The spasm occurs abruptly, is painful, and is usually short-lived. 1 If muscle spasms are especially painful, if they do not resolve or if they recur, medical care should be accessed to look for possible underlying causes. 2  Smooth muscles that are within the walls of hollow organs can go into spasm, causing significant pain. 3  Often this pain is colicky, meaning that it comes and goes
1 Smooth muscles that are within the walls of hollow organs can go into spasm, causing significant pain. 2  Often this pain is colicky, meaning that it comes and goes. 3  Examples include the pain associated with menstrual cramps, diarrhea, gallbladder pain, and passing a kidney stone. 1 If muscle spasms are especially painful, if they do not resolve or if they recur, medical care should be accessed to look for possible underlying causes. 2  Smooth muscles that are within the walls of hollow organs can go into spasm, causing significant pain. 3  Often this pain is colicky, meaning that it comes and goes
In discussing back muscle spasms, it's important to remember that sometimes spasms of the muscle in the back is just a spasm of the muscle. When I say that, what I mean is muscles have their own intrinsic protective mechanisms. Causes of Back Muscle Spasms Video. A muscle spasm is the body's method of protecting injured structures, or as a means to protect itself from injury. Muscle spasms in the back can be caused by a muscle strain, a sprained muscle, or an underlying condition. 1  Tweet. 2  Print.
Causes of muscle spasm. The first step to getting to the bottom of what your back is telling you and to feeling better is to determine the cause of your back muscle spasm. Muscles spasms occur: 1  As a result of the muscles trying to protect themselves from a muscle strain or sprain or. 2  In response to an underlying condition. Muscle spasms in your back can be so painful that they may have you headed for the emergency room. If you experience a back muscle spasm, make sure to stop and listen to your body. Either your back is telling you not to do that activity ever again, or it's warning you that there's a more serious underlying issue.
191 Followers. A. There are a variety of causes of muscle spasms, and each cause depends on certain predisposing factors and anatomic areas of involvement. Spasms may occur when a muscle is overused and tired, particularly if it is overstretched or if it has been held in the same position for a prolonged period of time. Overuse as a cause of skeletal muscle spasm is often seen in athletes who are doing strenuous exercise in a hot environment. This is also an occupational issue with construction workers. Usually, the spasms will occur in the large muscles that are being asked to do the work. Writer's cramps are similarly caused by prolonged use of the small muscles in the hand. It is commonly thought that dehydration and depletion of electrolytes will lead to muscle spasm and cramping
A back spasm is a sudden and involuntary contraction, or uncontrollable tightening, of a muscle in response to strain, overuse, weakness, or muscle pain related to injury or a disorder. Back spasms often occur near the spinal cord or near the nerve roots that lead in and out of the spinal cord. 
Muscle spasm facts. 1  Spasms may affect many different types of muscles in the body, leading to many different symptoms and presentations. 2  Spasms of skeletal muscles are most common and are often due to dehydration and electrolyte abnormalities. 3  The spasm occurs abruptly, is painful, and is usually short-lived. 1 If muscle spasms are especially painful, if they do not resolve or if they recur, medical care should be accessed to look for possible underlying causes. 2  Smooth muscles that are within the walls of hollow organs can go into spasm, causing significant pain. 3  Often this pain is colicky, meaning that it comes and goes
Muscle spasms and cramps. Cramps are caused by muscle spasms, involuntary contractions of one or more muscles. In addition to the foot and calf muscles, other muscles prone to spasms include the front and back of the thigh, the hands, arms, abdomen and muscles along the ribcage. Almost everyone experiences muscle cramps, which come without warning.