Fin rot can be tricky to spot on your betta, especially if they have dark fins, if it is a mild case, or if the fish is a crown tail. There are, however, tell-tale signs your fish's fins are being eaten by this pesky bacteria. First, assess your tank. 1 If the fin rot is a bit more advanced-mild-moderate-up this dose to no more than 1.5 tsp salt/gallon of water. 2  Pre-mix it in the water like above. 3  Add the salt/water mixture back into the QT tank gently so it wont knock around your fish.
Report Abuse. your betta shouldnt have damaged fins unless you keep it with other fish that nip. if your betta lives by its self, it probably has fin rot. put aquarium salt and buy a fin rot medication. Some One · 5 years ago. Thumbs up. Make sure his tank has a heater and it is set between 80 and 82 degrees at all times. If he does not have a heater, then the chances of the fins healing are very low. Your breeding tank also needs a heater and a sponge filter. Source(s): Betta breeder over 30 years.
1 So, if you have 1/2 gallon of water, .5tsp; 1 gallon of water, use 1 tsp of salt; 2 gallons, 2 tsp of salt; and so on. 2  This is why you use a smaller container, its easier! 3  If the fin rot is a bit more advanced-mild-moderate-up this dose to no more than 1.5 tsp salt/gallon of water. 4  Pre-mix it in the water like above. 1 If the fin rot is a bit more advanced-mild-moderate-up this dose to no more than 1.5 tsp salt/gallon of water. 2  Pre-mix it in the water like above. 3  Add the salt/water mixture back into the QT tank gently so it wont knock around your fish.
A House in Order. While a betta under ideal conditions can regrow fins without complication, many bettas do not live in ideal conditions. Bettas live longer, healthier lives in real aquariums, as opposed to bowls. Mostly, the combination of heated and filtered water helps bettas thrive. How to Help Betta Fin Regrowth. The betta has an organ in his gills capable of processing air. Ryan McVay/Stockbyte/Getty Images. Bettas' famous long fins are vulnerable to damage. Under ideal conditions, a betta can regrow damaged fins without much in the way of special care.
your betta shouldnt have damaged fins unless you keep it with other fish that nip. if your betta lives by its self, it probably has fin rot. put aquarium salt and buy a fin rot medication. Make sure his tank has a heater and it is set between 80 and 82 degrees at all times. If he does not have a heater, then the chances of the fins healing are very low. Your breeding tank also needs a heater and a sponge filter. Source(s): Betta breeder over 30 years.
1 This parasite can be prevented by adding aquarium salt and water conditioner to your tank on a regular basis. 2  You need to add 1 teaspoon of aquarium salt for 2 1/2 gallons of water. 3  You also need a drop of water conditioner per gallon, though always read the instructions that come with your water conditioner. 7. Watch for your betta to rub or scratch. If your betta is trying to rub against the side of the tank, that could be a sign of a problem. Similarly, if your betta is trying to scratch on plants or objects in the tank, he might also be sick.
When to Do Nothing. If you do not see signs of fin rot, you can leave a betta with a torn fin to heal on his own. If your betta lives in heated filtered water, the fish will likely heal quickly. Some sources indicate that feeding foods with B vitamins like Daphnia may improve fin regeneration. How to Help Betta Fin Regrowth. The betta has an organ in his gills capable of processing air. Ryan McVay/Stockbyte/Getty Images. Bettas' famous long fins are vulnerable to damage. Under ideal conditions, a betta can regrow damaged fins without much in the way of special care.
1. Quarantine the infected Betta fish. If your Betta lives with other fish in a tank, use a clean Betta fish net to remove him from the tank and place him a smaller tank with the necessary filtration system. This will then allow you to treat the water and the tank for any diseases, without harming your fish. 1 This can stress out your fish and could expose him to harmful bacteria. 2  To do a partial water change, remove 10-15% of the water and replace it with fresh, dechlorinated tap water. 3  You can use a siphon to suck up any gunk in the gravel and decorations. 4  Clean 25-33% of the gravel and decorations with the siphon.
These medications can kill off the fungus and prevent your Betta from developing more fungus that can cause fin and tail rot. You should also clean the tank completely and do a complete water change. Treat the new water with ampicillin or tetracycline, as well as a fungus eliminator. 1 This can stress out your fish and could expose him to harmful bacteria. 2  To do a partial water change, remove 10-15% of the water and replace it with fresh, dechlorinated tap water. 3  You can use a siphon to suck up any gunk in the gravel and decorations. 4  Clean 25-33% of the gravel and decorations with the siphon.
How It Came to This. Bettas can injure their fins any number of ways. Transporting them to new aquariums can cause injuries; other fish may nip at bettas' fins, causing damage; poor water conditions, like cold or unclean water, can encourage aggressive cases of fin rot, whereby bettas' fins disintegrate. How to Help Betta Fin Regrowth. The betta has an organ in his gills capable of processing air. Ryan McVay/Stockbyte/Getty Images. Bettas' famous long fins are vulnerable to damage. Under ideal conditions, a betta can regrow damaged fins without much in the way of special care.