A coven or covan /kʌvən/ usually refers to a gathering of witches. In fantasy stories and popular culture, a coven is a gathering of witches to work spells in tandem. Such imagery can be traced back to Renaissance prints depicting witches and to the three weird sisters in Shakespeare 's Macbeth.
Coven. A coven or covan is a gathering of witches. The word derives from a word found in 1300 in the Old French covenant meaning an agreement from the Latin convenire meaning to agree, and so from that to a late medieval Scots word meaning a gathering of any kind, according to the Oxford English Dictionary.
A coven is a unique entity. It is not a club. A club may include members who drop in whenever they don't have something better to do, joined merely to find friends without having a sincere interest in the club's focus, or because it is in to belong to that particular club. That will not work in a coven. It is not a substitute for family. A family consists of many people who may or may not like each other, and may or may not have chosen to be part of the family. There may be stress and personality conflicts which take up a large portion of the members' energy.
In Wicca and other similar forms of modern Neopagan witchcraft, a coven is a gathering or community of witches, a group of believers who gather together for ceremonies of worship, such as Drawing Down the Moon or celebrating the Sabbats. Other words may also be used, such as clan, grove, sept, touta, cove. 
A coven is a group that consists of at least three vampires. Covens are not very common as most vampires prefer to travel alone or in pairs, but a few exist stably over long periods of time, even rising to prominence in the vampire world. 
A coven must consist entirely of people who click with each other, respect each other and work well together. It is important to maintain family relationships even when your relatives are non-pagans and may not understand what your beliefs are. That will not work in a coven. It is not a substitute for family. A family consists of many people who may or may not like each other, and may or may not have chosen to be part of the family. There may be stress and personality conflicts which take up a large portion of the members' energy.
In Wicca and other similar forms of modern neopagan witchcraft, such as Stregheria and Feri, a coven is a gathering or community of witches, much like a congregation in Christian parlance. In fantasy stories and popular culture, a coven is a gathering of witches to work spells in tandem. Such imagery can be traced back to Renaissance prints depicting witches and to the three weird sisters in Shakespeare 's Macbeth.
Covens are described as gathering of witches who come together to practice the Collective Magic and discuss topics on witchcraft. A normal coven usually consists of six or more members including the High Priestess or Priest, who is the leader/head of the coven. Covens are usually formed to perform and possess great magic as witches are stronger in number. Their magic is pooled together in a Collective Power which binds them as one
Coven is the subtitle for the third season, or miniseries, of American Horror Story. A third story was announced on November 15, 2012 It was announced at the 2013 PaleyFest panel that the story title would be  Coven . Jessica Lange was the first actor announced to be remaining in the troupe. 
Gender. . A Coven is a name used to describe a gathering of witches. A coven is generally a group of twelve or more witches who occasionally meet to practice magic, celebrate sacred holidays, and discuss topics on witchcraft. As shown on several occasions, covens seem to always have both a leader and followers.