1 The meaning of Riku is land . 2  The most common Kanji used in the name Riku is 陸. 3  The name meaning can vary if alternative Kanji (Japanese characters) is chosen by the parents. 4  Riku is a Japanese boy name. Riku-Meaning of Riku. 1  The meaning of Riku is land . 2  The most common Kanji used in the name Riku is 陸. 3  The name meaning can vary if alternative Kanji (Japanese characters) is chosen by the parents.
Comments and insights on the name Riku: | Edit. This is a name of a fictional character from the video game Kingdom Hearts. I really like this name and wanted to d out more about it, if it wasn't just made up! This was the #5 most popular name given to Japanese baby boys in 2012.
What does Kairi mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Kairi is of Japanese origin. The meaning of Kairi is sea, ocean village. It is also of French origin, where its meaning is melody, song. Kairi is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 5 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Kai-ri. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 887 in baby name popularity for girls with 304 occurrences.
Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Riku and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Riku and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. If you consider naming your baby Riku we recommend you take note of the special meaning and history of the name as your baby’s name will play a big role in its life and your baby will hear it spoken every day.
The different meanings of the name Riku are: The meaning of the name “Riku” is different in several languages, countries and cultures and has more than one possibly same or different meanings available. .adslot_1 { width: 336px; height: 280px; } @media (max-width:350px) { .adslot_1 { width: 300px; height: 250px; } }. If you consider naming your baby Riku we recommend you take note of the special meaning and history of the name as your baby’s name will play a big role in its life and your baby will hear it spoken every day.
The meaning of Riku has more than one different etymologies. It has same or different meanings in other countries and languages. The different meanings of the name Riku are: 1  Japanese meaning: Shore. If you consider naming your baby Riku we recommend you take note of the special meaning and history of the name as your baby’s name will play a big role in its life and your baby will hear it spoken every day.
Meaning of Riku. Japanese name. In Japanese, the name Riku means-land.The name Riku originated as an Japanese name. The name Riku is a unisex name and can be used for a boy or girl name (male or female). Japanese Name Meaning-land
Hello, Guest. The Japanese Rikku is familiar in the west as the name of one of the lead characters of the Final Fantasy  video game series. Voted hottest character, the fictional Rikku is a thief with a good sense of humor