Homeostasis or homoeostasis (homeo- + -stasis) is the property of a system in which variables are regulated so that internal conditions remain stable and relatively constant. Examples of homeostasis include the regulation of temperature and the balance between acidity and alkalinity (pH). It is a process that maintains the stability of the human body's internal environment in response to changes in external conditions. 
1 To explain the role of feedback mechanisms in homeostasis. 2  To distinguish negative feedback from positive feedback. 3  To identify and example of two organ systems working together to maintain homeostasis. 4  To summarize the role of the endocrine system in homeostasis. 1 To identify the process by which body systems are kept within certain limits. 2  To explain the role of feedback mechanisms in homeostasis. 3  To distinguish negative feedback from positive feedback. 4
Confidence votes 167. There are two types of feedback systems (how the body maintains homeostasis) and they are Positive: causes the variable to change in the body to increase the inital change...example giving birth. Negative: causes the varibale to change in the opposite direction of the initial changes...example body temperature. There are few examples of positive feedback, the most common of which is the release of oxytocin during childbirth. When the body has a lot of oxytocin in the blood during childbirth, instead of lowering the levels, it raises them, causing the uterus to contract and cervix to dilate more. 6 people found this useful.
When the glucose of homeostasis fails a disease called diabetes is formed, these include type 1 diabetes and type 2 diabetes. Insulin dependent or type 1 diabetes is a type of disease where the body produces the needed amount of insulin required, making the body suffer severe insulin deficiency. 
Human body include mechanisms that help regulate the body, this includes organs, glands, tissues and cells. The adjusting of these enables the body to constantly be in a steady state. The main mechanisms of homeostasis are body temperature, body fluid composition, blood sugar, gas concentrations, and blood pressure. Blood Pressure Pressure by which the blood is pumped around the body is controlled by a homeostatic mechanism.
The control of blood sugar (glucose) by insulin is another good example of a negative feedback mechanism. When blood sugar rises, receptors in the body sense a change. In turn, the control center (pancreas) secretes insulin into the blood effectively lowering blood sugar levels. A positive feedback mechanism is the exact opposite of a negative feedback mechanism. With negative feedback, the output reduces the original effect of the stimulus. In a positive feedback system, the output enhances the original stimulus. A good example of a positive feedback system is child birth.
There are two types of feedback, negative and positive feedback. Negative feedback is most common in biological systems, for example: doing excercise creates metabolic heat which raises the core temperature of the body, then due to cooling mechanisms such as flushed skin or sweatingbegin and the temperature decreases. Positive feedback kicks in when rapid change is needed. An example of this is when the hormone oxytocin in childbirth is produced to stimulate and enhance labour contractions. (Homeostasis– Part 1: anatomy and physiology, ©2012). Below picture shows the stages in a negative feedback system.
Regulation of body temperature, blood pressure, pH, and glucose concentration are four examples of how the body maintains homeostasis. The hypothalamus is involved to a degree in each of these regulations. Questions. 2. Use regulation of body temperature to illustrate maintenance of homeostasis by a feedback mechanism. 3. Use regulation of normal blood pressure to illustrate how the nervous system and the endocrine systems are both involved in maintaining homeostasis.
Control systems that keep such conditions constant are examples of homeostasis; this is the maintenance of constant internal conditions in an organism. Negative feedback is an important type of control that is found in homeostasis. A negative feedback control system responds when conditions change from the ideal or set point and returns conditions to this set point. There is a continuous cycle of events in negative feedback. 