The term ‘genotype’ is usually used to refer to specific alleles. Alleles are alternative forms of the same gene that occupy the same location on a chromosome. At any given locus, there are 2 alleles (1 on each chromosome in the pair) – you get 1 allele from your mother and 1 from your father.
The genome in which a genotype is found can affect the expression of that genotype, and the environment can affect the phenotype. Not all pairs of alleles will have the same phenotype: dominance when AA = Aa in phenotype, A is dominant, a is recessive. An allele can be dominant over one allele but recessive to another allele. Model of dominance from enzyme activity: no copies produce no phenotype, one copy produces x amount of product and two copies produces 2x then the alleles are additive and there is no dominance (intermediate inheritance).
A dominant allele produces a dominant phenotype in individuals who have one copy of the allele, which can come from just one parent. For a recessive allele to produce a recessive phenotype, the individual must have two copies, one from each parent. An individual with one dominant and one recessive allele for a gene will have the dominant phenotype. They are generally considered “carriers” of the recessive allele: the recessive allele is there, but the recessive phenotype is not.
Definitions: phenotype is the constellation of observable traits; genotype is the genetic endowment of the individual. Phenotype = genotype + development (in a given environment). To consider these in the context of evolutionary biology, we want to know how these two are related.
A gene is a stretch of DNA or RNA that determines a certain trait. Genes mutate and can take two or more alternative forms; an allele is one of these forms of a gene. For example, the gene for eye color has several variations (alleles) such as an allele for blue eye color or an allele for brown eyes.
If the alleles are the same (TT or tt), the genotype is homozygous. If the alleles are different (Tt) the genotype is heterozygous. It is actually rare that 1 gene determines 1 characteristic as in the case of PTC tasting (a monogenic trait).