Usps priority mail from florida to california shouldn`t take more than 2 or 3 days.... 0. 0. Usps priority mail from Florida to California shouldn`t take more than 2 or 3 days. With the priority mail service, they should have given you a tracking number for it. I heared in some cases it didn`t work though. You should be announced when the mail leaves Florida. Andra Darkman.
Below is a list of approximate delivery times for First Class mail that is sent from Florida (FL). 
How long does it take regular mail to get from California to Florida? For a regular mail to get from California to Florida, it will  usually take four days. There are instances where it might take 5  to 7 days. It depends on what part of Florida you are going from and what part you are going to in California if you go from Miami to San Diego it is 1 Day and 18 hours! + 1 other found this useful. Jacob Romero. Edit
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: It should take two or three days. If you dropped the letter in the mailbox after the last pickup time listed on the sticker on the mailbox, add an extra day. Source(s): http://pe.usps.com/text/dmm100/choosing.... John L · 7 years ago.
Report Abuse. Had an item shipped from City of Industry CA on 10/16 [was accepted into the USPS system] to Tampa FL and they promised delivery as 10/19. In their infinite wisdom, they routed thru OPA LOCKA, FL just outside Miami on 10/19 so in no way would it get to Tampa on 10/19. There is no such thing as UPS Priority. If you mean USPS Priority, it is average of 1-2 days. UPS next day takes one day, UPS 2-day takes two days, UPS 3-day takes three days... UPS group would probably take about a week.
January 6, 2012 By Certified Mail Envelopes. Plan on 3 to 5 business days unless you send it Priority Mail 2 or 3 day service. USPS Certified Mail provides the mailer a receipt or ‘proof of mailing’ and evidence of delivery when the letter is delivered. It does not guarantee an exact delivery time because someone must sign for each letter. 
How long does it take to send mail from California to the bottom of Florida using Priority Mail UPS? If it left Oct. 20th, when will it be at the bottom of florida. There is no such thing as UPS Priority. If you mean USPS Priority, it is average of 1-2 days. UPS next day takes one day, UPS 2-day takes two days, UPS 3-day takes three days... UPS group would probably take about a week.
Delivery time depends on type of service used, Priority Mail is usually 2-3 day and Parcel Post could take about 7 days. No delivery day guarantees from the Post Office unless … you use Express Mail. Express mail typically overnight any where on the east coast, to the east coast. Priority can be 2-3 business days, parcel post … can range from a day, to a week depending on how much mail the USPS is handling at that time. First class mail from FL to me (I live in Lackawanna county PA) is usually a day or two unless its around Christmas