An anal fissure or rectal fissure is a break or tear in the skin of the anal canal. Anal fissures may be noticed by bright red anal bleeding on toilet paper, sometimes in the toilet. If acute they may cause pain after defecation but with chronic fissures pain intensity is often less. Anal fissures usually extend from the anal opening and are usually located posteriorly in the midline, probably because of the relatively unsupported nature and poor perfusion of the anal wall in that location. Fissure depth may be superficial or sometimes down to the underlying sphincter muscle.
1. porta hepatis. 2. the transverse cerebral fissure between the diencephalon and the cerebral hemispheres; called also fissure of Bichat. zygal fissure any of the fissures on the cerebral cortex that consist of two branches connected by a stem. A fissure is usually deeper than a sulcus, but in the terminology of anatomy fissure and sulcus are often used interchangeably. Also called fissura. fissured, adj. Dermatology A groove, cleft, or sulcus, which may or may not be normal.
LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. noun. The definition of a fissure is an opening in the Earth, or a disagreement or split on an issue. 1  A long and narrow crack in the earth that forms an opening is an example of a fissure. 2  When two members of a group have a disagreement and split on an issue, this is an example of a fissure
2. the transverse cerebral fissure between the diencephalon and the cerebral hemispheres; called also fissure of Bichat. zygal fissure any of the fissures on the cerebral cortex that consist of two branches connected by a stem. interpalpebral fissure See palpebral aperture. optic fissure An invagination of the inferior portion of the optic stalk of the embryo. The hyaloid vessels pass through that fissure to supply the developing crystalline lens.
hippocampal fissure one extending from the splenium of the corpus callosum almost to the tip of the temporal lobe; called also hippocampal sulcus. longitudinal fissure the deep fissure between the two cerebral hemispheres. interpalpebral fissure See palpebral aperture. optic fissure An invagination of the inferior portion of the optic stalk of the embryo. The hyaloid vessels pass through that fissure to supply the developing crystalline lens.
Full Definition of FISSURE. 1. : a narrow opening or crack of considerable length and depth usually occurring from some breaking or parting. 2. a: a natural cleft between body parts or in the substance of an organ b: a break or slit in tissue usually at the junction of skin and mucous membrane
superior orbital fissure An elongated opening lying between the roof and the lateral walls of the orbit, that is, between the two wings of the sphenoid bone. Syn. sphenoidal fissure. See abducens nerve; oculomotor nerve; ophthalmic nerve; trochlear nerve; superior ophthalmic vein; Table O4. interpalpebral fissure See palpebral aperture. optic fissure An invagination of the inferior portion of the optic stalk of the embryo. The hyaloid vessels pass through that fissure to supply the developing crystalline lens.
superior orbital fissure An elongated opening lying between the roof and the lateral walls of the orbit, that is, between the two wings of the sphenoid bone. Syn. sphenoidal fissure. See abducens nerve; oculomotor nerve; ophthalmic nerve; trochlear nerve; superior ophthalmic vein; Table O4. A fissure is usually deeper than a sulcus, but in the terminology of anatomy fissure and sulcus are often used interchangeably. Also called fissura. fissured, adj. Dermatology A groove, cleft, or sulcus, which may or may not be normal.
Brain fissures are convolutions in the structure of the brain that form valleys between folds. The valleys are called fissures or sulci (plural of sulcus), and lie between the raised folds called gyri (singular gyrus). 