My question, some people tie a red string around their left wrist to ward off the evil eye, right? Can it be any red string? Can I just take some red thread and tie it on my wrist or do I have to say some kind of prayer. Is it important what wrist it is on and does it 'cure' you AND protet you of the 'evil eye'? I lived in an Amerindian village in the Peace Corps and it was blue and not red and worn on the left wrist or around the neck. There were also decendents of escaped African slaves in the area, and they wore a black string with beads if they had the money for one, if not any type of string would do around the waist.
Let us explore deeper what jigida as a bead means. To help us do this is an article first published in 2009 on Artspeaks drawing from a cultural view on mgbaji or jijida – that is beads worn around the waist by females for beautification and protection of the feminine context.
Anyhow this is what I found... The son's thread -- a strip of thin string worn for life, and slung diagonally across his chest and back, from shoulder to waist -- showed that he was also a Brahmin, Hinduism's highest caste. . Yea, it's an Indian Hindu thing. 0. Mar 16, '04 by taoist. found this online, and it makes a little bit of sense. My Indian friend (who is of the Brahmin caste) had previously made mention of how he was supposed to wear a string around his waist, so it rang a bell for me.
0 Hi folks, While doing a clinical in the ED this past weekend, we had an infant come in who, when stripped down to his birthday suit, was found to be wearing a thin belt of leather/string tied around his waist. I assume that this has some cultural or religous significance, but I can't find any sort of reference to this practice. 0. Mar 16, '04 by taoist. found this online, and it makes a little bit of sense. My Indian friend (who is of the Brahmin caste) had previously made mention of how he was supposed to wear a string around his waist, so it rang a bell for me.
The sacred thread however, is different from the one work around the waist. This waist thread is typically of a darker hue. While the sacred thread has religious hue-this waist thread has no religious specification... Yes, the string is of large significant in our culture. Actually, when the umbilical cord is cut, a small part of the cord is put in a silver enclosure and tied with a thread around the waist. It is believed that the mother's umbilical cord gives protection to the baby.
A belly chain or waist chain are the popular English terms for the Kamarband/Udiyanam, which is a type of body jewelry worn around the waist. Some belly chains attach to a navel piercing; these are also called pierced belly chains. They are often made of silver or gold. Sometimes a thread is used around the waist instead of a chain. A belly chain is a common adornment for belly dancers. History [edit]. Use of waist chains can be traced back to 4000 years or more originating in India, as is the case with most jewelry, which are now becoming popular worldwide due to globalisation and the diffusion of Indian culture through diaspora and exposure to Indian media.
I am from India and a Hindu. Yes, the string is of large significant in our culture. Actually, when the umbilical cord is cut, a small part of the cord is put in a silver enclosure and tied with a thread around the waist. It is believed that the mother's umbilical cord gives protection to the baby.
Many children of Asian (India, Pakistan etc) descent have a thin string around there body. Whether it be aroung the wrist, ankle, neck or waist. Sometimes a metal or wooden icon is attached. This is of cultural significance and should never be removed. Yes, the string is of large significant in our culture. Actually, when the umbilical cord is cut, a small part of the cord is put in a silver enclosure and tied with a thread around the waist. It is believed that the mother's umbilical cord gives protection to the baby.
I've started dating an Indian man. He wears a string around his waist under his clothes. I was trying to figure out the meaning of this so I don't have to ask him and look like a dork. Add your answer. 
Best Answer: not all people in india wear the sacred thread or janeu (pronounced juh-nay-oo). this sacred thread is worn by hindu males. an upanayanam ceremony, or the thread-ceremony is a hindu ritual, traditionally performed on hindu boys to mark the point when they began their formal education. 