The inverse stretch reflex or the Golgi tendon reflex completes the stretch reflex by a force-controlling feedback. The Golgi tendon organs monitor force in the tendons. Golgi tendon organs are in series with the muscle fibres-not parallel as the muscle spindles.
1 Athlete – This is YOU. 2  As long as you are pursuing health and fitness here at CrossFit Reflex we will refer to you as an athlete. 3  Beast – An athlete with exceptionally good work capacity or work ethic. 4  Beast Mode – The state of performing like a “beast”.
All these 'reflex' reactions occur when muscles contract in response to an obvious external stimulus. The reality is, outside forces are stimulating our muscles every time we move, run, jump, walk, throw, catch, get out of bed, or hold our head up, and our reflexes govern our reactions to those forces.
CrossFit Dictionary. There is a lot of vernacular used only in CrossFit, and we have made a list of abbreviations and terms that are often used. Knowing the language of CrossFit should help reduce confusion and allow you to focus on your performance.
Reflexes are ultimately responsible for the action of our muscles and, so, govern the way we move. Reflexes are, by definition, actions that occur before the brain is aware of what is happening. Reaction to a stimulus is processed in the spinal cord, bypassing brain control. Naturally, if movement results, the brain will become aware of such movement and can regulate it somewhat, but the brain cannot control it.
The Stretch (Myotatic) Reflex. One of the best-known reflexes is the knee-jerk reflex. You sit with your leg dangling towards the floor and your leg is tapped just below the kneecap. Hopefully, your foot will shoot out and then relax back to its starting point. The sensors are the muscle spindles located in the quadriceps or thigh muscle.
Reflexes usually have five (and always four) separate parts: The stretch reflex or myotatic reflex (sometimes myotactic reflex) is probably our body's most unrecognised and unappreciated defence mechanism. Forget about the immune system.