The Shire horse is a breed of draught horse (BrE) or draft horse (AmE). The breed comes in many colours, including black, bay and grey. They are a tall breed, with mares standing 16 hands (64 inches, 163 cm) and over and stallions standing 17 hands (68 inches, 173 cm) and over. The breed has an enormous capacity for weight pulling, and Shires have held the world records for both largest overall horse and tallest horse at various times. Throughout its history, the breed has been popular for pulling brewery wagons delivering ale to customers. Smaller Shires, under 17 hands (68 inches, 173 cm), are generally preferred for working horses, while taller horses, especially those over 18.2 hands (74 inches, 188 cm), are used for show and promotional purposes. The breed is known for its easy-going temperament.
It is hard to pin a ribbon on the five tallest breeds. The most noted tall breed is the Shire, with Samson (a Shire gelding) being the largest horse to ever live. Close behind are the over cold blood, or draft/draught horses such as the Irish Draught, the Percheron, or the Belgian. Some warmbloods can reach good size at high 16 hands or low 17 hands. What is the largest or biggest horse breed? The Shire breed is generally thought of as the tallest horse breed, with the largest horse being a Shire gelding called Samson who was 21.2 hh (hands high: 1 hand = 4 inches) … and weighed 1524 kg (3360 lb).
Best Answer: Draft horses. Draft horse breeds include Belgians, Shires, Clydesdales, and Percherons. Belgians are generally the biggest (as a rule) -- big ones are over seven feet in height, and weigh over 3,000 lbs! But there is considerable variation, and Shires and Percherons hold the records. The tallest horse ever recorded was a Shire gelding named Samson. He was 21.2 1/2hh (7'2) and weighed 3360 pound
The biggest horses in the world are draft breeds. These horses were bred to pull or carry large loads. Included in the draft breeds are the Shire, Percheron and Clydesdale. Before the use of trucks and tractors, draft horses pulled ploughs, wagons, street cars, barges and other farm implements and conveyances. Over the years, many draft horses have held the record for the tallest horse in the world. The current Guinness World-Record holder as of 2007 is Jenson’s Diplomat Tina, a mare, who at the age of three was measured at 20 HH.
The Perchon is a big stocky breed of horse that used to be used in war,for pulling carts and heavy weights. the first biggest horse is a shire and then the second largest is a … Clydesdale. if you want to get technical then you could talk about cross breeds like TB/Clydesdale, but that's two different breeds. Belgians are generally the biggest (as a rule) -- big ones are over seven feet in heigh … t, and weigh over 3,000 lbs! But there is considerable variation, and Shires and Percherons hold the records. The tallest horse ever recorded was a Shire gelding named Samson.
Largest Horse Breeds. Samson, a Shire, was said to have weighed 3,300 pounds and stood 7 feet 2 inches tall in the 1850s. Today, Shires are considered the largest of all draft-horse breeds. Other gentle giants include Percherons, Clydesdales, Belgian drafts, Nivernaise and Suffolk punch horses. Tallest Living Horse. According to the Guinness World Records 2013 edition, Big Jake is the tallest living horse. This Belgian gelding weighs 2,600 pounds and stands just shy of 6 feet 11 inches tall; that’s 20 hands, two and three-quarter inches in horse terms.
The most noted tall breed is the Shire, with Samson (a Shire gelding) being the largest horse to ever live. Close behind … are the over cold blood, or draft/draught horses such as the Irish Draught, the Percheron, or the Belgian. Some warmbloods can reach good size at high 16 hands or low 17 hands. Belgians are generally the biggest (as a rule) -- big ones are over seven feet in heigh … t, and weigh over 3,000 lbs! But there is considerable variation, and Shires and Percherons hold the records. The tallest horse ever recorded was a Shire gelding named Samson.
The Belgian horse breed, also known as Brabant, is one of the largest breeds of horses in the world today. It is a draft horse breed and has its origins in Germany. The Brabants are so large that they can measure up to 17 hands high (or hh, which is the unit of measuring a horse’s height from toe to the hoof). 
Draft horse breeds include Belgians, Shires, Clydesdales, and Percherons. Belgians are generally the biggest (as a rule) -- big ones are over seven feet in heigh … t, and weigh over 3,000 lbs! But there is considerable variation, and Shires and Percherons hold the records. The tallest horse ever recorded was a Shire gelding named Samson. He was 21.2 1/2hh (7'2) and weighed 3360 pound