Respiratory Disease caused by Adenovirus. Respiratory symptoms caused by adenoviruses are most commonly seen amongst children under the age of two. The incubation period before the onset of these symptoms is generally 5-8 days. Patients most often complain of symptoms including pharyngitis (sore throat), fever, cough, croup, and bronchioliti
The conjunctiva can also act as a portal of entry. The virus is most communicable during the first few days of disease but viral shedding can occur for several months. Incubation period for respiratory tract infections is 2-14 days. Incubation period for gastrointestinal disease is 3-10 days. 
Once a child is exposed to the virus, there is an incubation period of 2 to 14 days before he has symptoms. The incubation period for gastroenteritis can range from 3 to 10 days. 
Transmission is person-to-person via respiratory secretions, ocular discharge, hands, fecal-oral, urine, contaminated fomites, and swimming pools. Adenoviral conjunctivitis is highly contagious, with an incubation period of 7 to 10 days and a duration of 4 to 6 weeks. The virus is shed during the initial 2 weeks of symptoms. Infectious particles can survive on fomites for 2 months. AHC, like EKC, is highly contagious, causing epidemics, and produces severe conjunctivitis. Clinical characteristics helpful in distinguishing AHC from EKC are the shorter incubation period of 1 to 2 days, the shorter duration of 1 week, and the high prevalence of subconjunctival hemorrhages.
The incubation period for pink eye will vary, depending on whether it is caused by bacteria or a virus and the specific type. For a viral infection, generally 12 hours to three days later, signs and/or symptoms of pink eye will appear. For pink eye caused by a bacterial infection, symptoms generally start one to three days after transmission. For a viral infection, the incubation period is generally 12 hours to three days. Pink eye is the layman's term for conjunctivitis.
Apart from respiratory involvement, illnesses and presentations of adenovirus include gastroenteritis, conjunctivitis, cystitis, and rash illness. Symptoms of respiratory illness caused by adenovirus infection range from the common cold syndrome to pneumonia, croup, and bronchitis. 
Adenoviruses are a group of viruses that typically cause respiratory illnesses, such as a common cold, conjunctivitis (an infection in the eye that is sometimes called pink eye), croup, bronchiolitis, or pneumonia. In children, adenoviruses usually cause infections in the respiratory tract and intestinal tract. 
The incubation period is 8-10 days. Diarrhea is the most common symptoms in humans, with the virus found in stools for 7-14 days. About 50% of human patients have respiratory symptoms before the gastrointestinal symptoms start. In humans, mild fever, vomited and abdominal pain accompany the period of diarrhea, which can last for 10 days or so. During the first 4-5 days, no virus cells are shed.
Incubation period. For an airway infection it takes around 2 to 14 days for the symptoms to appear after exposure to the virus. This is called the incubation period. For intestinal infections the incubation period is 3 to10 days. Adenoviruses are a family of viruses. These may cause infections in humans as well as animals. The most common infections caused by adenoviruses are respiratory tract infections. Adenovirus often infects the airways and the intestinal tract.
Incubation Period. The symptoms of adenovirus can sometimes take up to two weeks to manifest, though symptoms can be seen in as little as two days. It is important to remember that the virus can live outside of the body for a considerable amount of time. Contagiousness Of The Adenovirus. Adenovirus is a very highly contagious virus that is spread easily through areas of dense population such as schools, day care facilities, public transit, and office buildings. However, there are precautions one can take to help avoid the risk of coming into contact with the virus.