Treatment and prevention tips for sacroiliac dysfunction and sacroiliac joint pain. The Sacroiliac joint (or SI joint) connects the sacrum and the iliac crest to support the spine and hips. This joint is small and strong, and held together by tough fibrous ligaments. Sacroiliac dysfunction may be the result of injury or inflammation. The pain is similar to sciatica and other back pain issues. It is sometimes difficult to pinpoint the cause of the lower back pain. Treatments for sacroiliac joint pain may also serve as diagnostic tools.
Sacroiliitis is a condition characterized by inflammation in one or both of the SI joints. The sacroiliac joints are located at the base of the spine where it connects to the pelvis. These joints can become inflamed, which then leads to a condition called Sacroiliitis. 
Sacroiliac joint dysfunction is caused by abnormal movement of the sacroiliac joints, which can cause pain in the lower back and legs, or inflammation of the joints (sacroiliitis). 1  Tweet. 2  Print. Sacroiliac joint dysfunction refers to pain in these joints when they move either too much or too little. Hypermobility, or too much movement in the sacroiliac joints, is a result of loose ligaments supporting the joints. Hypermobility has many causes, including pregnancy or injury to ligaments.
Sacroiliac joint dysfunction is caused by abnormal movement of the sacroiliac joints, which can result in pain in the lower back and legs, or inflammation of the joints known as sacroiliitis. For decades, the sacroiliac joint was suspected to be a common cause of low back and/or leg pain, although difficulty in proving it with standard diagnostic tests left many in the medical profession skeptical.
Sacroiliac dysfunction is often described as pain that is focused in the lower portion of the back and hip. It may radiate out to the buttocks and lower back. In some cases it may travel down the legs or around to the front, in the groin area. Some males may feel pain in the testicles as well. Sacroiliac dysfunction may be the result of injury or inflammation. The pain is similar to sciatica and other back pain issues. It is sometimes difficult to pinpoint the cause of the lower back pain. Treatments for sacroiliac joint pain may also serve as diagnostic tools.
Sacroiliac joint dysfunction is improper movement of the joints at the bottom of the spine that connect the sacrum to the pelvis. It can result in pain in the low back and legs, or inflammation of the joints known as sacroiliitis. Sacroiliac joint dysfunction refers to pain in these joints when they move either too much or too little. Hypermobility, or too much movement in the sacroiliac joints, is a result of loose ligaments supporting the joints. Hypermobility has many causes, including pregnancy or injury to ligaments.
Sacroiliac joint pain and dysfunction can be confused with other conditions that arises from the spine and the hip. Not only can these conditions be overlapped, but they can be associated causing low back pain. Diagnostic injection is the only method to diagnose this condition. 
The sacroiliac (SI) joints are formed by the connection of the sacrum and the right and left iliac bones. The sacrum is the triangular-shaped bone in the lower portion of the spine, below the lumbar spine. This is the most common cause of SI joint dysfunction. Degenerative arthritis occurs commonly in the SI joints, just like other weight-bearing joints of the body. Another common cause of SI joint dysfunction is pregnancy. During pregnancy, hormones are released in the woman's body that allows ligaments to relax.
Anatomy and physiology of the sacroiliac joints [edit]. The sacroiliac joint is a true diarthrodial joint that joins the sacrum to the pelvis. The sacrum (tailbone) connects on the right and left sides to the ilia (pelvic bones) to form the sacroiliac joints. The pelvic girdle is made up of two innominate bones (the iliac bones) and the sacrum. For the most severe and chronic forms of sacroiliac dysfunction, treatment should proceed with the support of a sacroiliac belt, injection therapy, and finally, surgery. The anti-inflammatory effect of injection therapy is not permanent, and the injections do not offer an opportunity to stabilize an incompetent joint.
Anatomical Source of Sacroiliac Joint Pain. The sacroiliac joint lies next to the bottom of the spine, below the lumbar spine and above the tailbone (coccyx) . It connects the sacrum (the triangular bone at the bottom of the spine) with the pelvis (iliac crest). 1  See Sacroiliac Joint Anatomy. For decades, the sacroiliac joint was suspected to be a common cause of low back and/or leg pain, although difficulty in proving it with standard diagnostic tests left many in the medical profession skeptical.