- Good credit stays for 10 years and then it is aged off but can stay longer. - Bankruptcies that, from the date of adjudication, (means decision) antedate (means predate) the report by more than 10 years. - Collection accounts and charge offs remain for 7 years from first serious delinquency or charge off date. 
How long a bankruptcy stays on your credit report depends on the type of bankruptcy you filed. Chapter 13 bankruptcies may be removed from your credit report after 7 years, whereas Chapter 7 and Chapter 11 bankruptcies can remain on your report for 10 years. While tax liens themselves can stay on your credit report for as long as your state laws allow, if you pay the tax lien off, then the tax lien should be removed after 7 years. The tax lien should show up as “paid” during this time period.
While the average length of time is 7 years, how long your bad mark will stay on your specific credit report depends on a variety of factors such as the type of mark it is. While tax liens themselves can stay on your credit report for as long as your state laws allow, if you pay the tax lien off, then the tax lien should be removed after 7 years. The tax lien should show up as “paid” during this time period.
How long negative information appears on your credit report depends on the type of information: 1  Late paid accounts. 2  In general, negative information will stay on your credit report for seven years from the date of last activity. Not all of your credit information will stay on your credit report forever, which can be good news if you are worried about how long negative information, such as late payments, bankruptcies and judgments, will impact your credit history and credit score. How long information remains on your credit report varies.
1 Tax liens. 2  Paid tax liens will typically stay on your credit report for seven years from the date released (paid), while unpaid tax liens can remain on your credit report for 15 years. 3  Bankruptcies. 4  In general, the public record of a bankruptcy can stay on your credit report for 10 years. Not all of your credit information will stay on your credit report forever, which can be good news if you are worried about how long negative information, such as late payments, bankruptcies and judgments, will impact your credit history and credit score. How long information remains on your credit report varies.
It does depend on the type of negative information but here is a breakdown of how long different types of negative information will remain on your credit report: 1  Late Payments: 7 years. 2  Bankruptcy: 7 years for completed Chapter 13 bankruptcy and 10 years for Chapter 7 bankruptcy. 3  Foreclosures: 7 years. 
Certain state laws may also impact how long information stays on your credit report. For current New York residents, for example, paid collections will remain on your credit report for only five years, while unpaid collections will remain for the full seven years. Not all of your credit information will stay on your credit report forever, which can be good news if you are worried about how long negative information, such as late payments, bankruptcies and judgments, will impact your credit history and credit score. How long information remains on your credit report varies.
Accounts paid as agreed will generally stay on your credit report for up to 10 years from the date of last activity. If you’ve paid off your mortgage, for example, that positive information can stay on your credit report for up to a decade from the account’s date of last activity. Not all of your credit information will stay on your credit report forever, which can be good news if you are worried about how long negative information, such as late payments, bankruptcies and judgments, will impact your credit history and credit score. How long information remains on your credit report varies.
Judgments – Most judgments, including small claims, civil and child support, will remain on your credit report for 7 years from the filing date. Late payments – If you are late with a payment, the 30-180 day delinquency can stay on your credit report for 7 years. Closed accounts – If the account has delinquencies, those marks will stay on your credit report for 7 years from the date they were reported. Positive closed accounts (with no delinquencies or late payments) can remain on your credit report for longer than 7 years.