Brassica Family. The brassica family of vegetables, which includes broccoli, cabbage, kale, cauliflower and brussels sprouts, is one of your most powerful weapons in warding off many common diseases such as cancer, heart disease, diabetes and hypertension. All fruits and vegetables are valuable sources of nutrients that fight disease. And it is the brassica family that contains the highest level of disease-fighting substances per serving. Phytochemicals In Food. In addition to being loaded with vitamins and minerals, the brassicas contain high levels of phytochemicals, or non-nutritive substances in plants, that possess protective health benefits.
AGFACTS AGFACTS AGFACTS INTRODUCTION Forage brassicas are members of the brassica family, which includes radish, turnip, swedes, broccoli, brussel sprouts, cauliflower and cabbage. Canola is an oilseed brassica which is not really suitable for grazing by livestock. 
Brassica (/ˈbraesɨkə/) ˈbræsɨkə is a genus of plants in the mustard (Family). Brassicaceae the members of the genus are informally known as cruciferous, vegetables, cabbages or mustard. plant Brassica plants have been the subject of much scientific interest for their agricultural importance. Six particular species (B. carinata, B. juncea, B. oleracea, B. napus, B. nigra and B. rapa) evolved by the combining of chromosomes from three earlier species, as described by the Triangle of U theory.
Brassica (/ˈbraesɨkə/) ˈbræsɨkə is a genus of plants in the mustard (Family). brassicaceae Brassica plants have been the subject of much scientific interest for their agricultural importance. Six particular species (B. carinata, B. juncea, B. oleracea, B. napus, B. nigra and B. rapa) evolved by the combining of chromosomes from three earlier species, as described by the Triangle of U theory.
Brassica Food Plots. Let's take a look at our experience with brassica food plot plantings. To begin I guess we should describe what brassicas are. This strange but fancy name is a genus of plant in the mustard family and includes food plot seeds that we call turnips, kale and rape. Usually they are planted as a fall annual, but they can be planted in the spring or early summer. We've done both.
Brassica (/ˈbraesɨkə/) ˈbræsɨkə is a genus of plants in the mustard (Family). Brassicaceae the members of the genus are informally known as cruciferous, vegetables, cabbages or mustard. Plant crops from this genus are sometimes called cole —crops derived from The latin, caulis denoting the stem or stalk of a. plant Brassica plants have been the subject of much scientific interest for their agricultural importance. Six particular species (B. carinata, B. juncea, B. oleracea, B. napus, B. nigra and B. rapa) evolved by the combining of chromosomes from three earlier species, as described by the Triangle of U theory.
Deer Management: Use Brassica s to attract deer to your food plot in hunting season Food plots are used extensively by deer management groups as well as hunters. There are two types of food plots. What determines the type is function. 
There are many different cultivars of brassicas. Heck, the broccoli you eat with your soup is one of them. When it comes to deer food there are only about two or three that really stand out. First, are Purple Top turnips, commonly called forage turnips in many circles. 
UW Extension Forage Agronomist. FC 15.4.1. Forage Brassicas, such as rape, kale, turnips, and swedes, are high yielding, high quality, fast growing crops. The above ground parts (stems and leaves) of rape and kale and all parts (stems, leaves, and roots) of turnips and swedes are utilized by livestock. 
Members of brassica commonly used for food include cabbage, cauliflower, broccoli, Brussels sprouts, and some seeds as in the production of canola oil. Brassica plants have been the subject of much scientific interest for their agricultural importance. Six particular species (B. carinata, B. juncea, B. oleracea, B. napus, B. nigra and B. rapa) evolved by the combining of chromosomes from three earlier species, as described by the Triangle of U theory.