Dolomite Rock. - Rock composed mostly of the mineral Dolomite, but also contains impurities such as Calcite, Quartz, and Feldspar. Pearl Spar. - Grouping of white to pinkish curved Dolomite crystals with a pearly luster. There are many localities that produced fine Dolomite specimens. Most locations are in regions which contain an abundance of this mineral throughout the region. The most prominent European occurrence is Eugui, Navarra, Spain, where clear, transparent crystals, unlike any others were found.
The second most abundant element is silicon, which accounts for another 27 percent by mass. The next six most abundant elements, in order of abundance, are aluminum, iron, calcium, magnesium, sodium, and potassium, which collectively comprise about 26 percent, leaving only about 2 percent for all other elements. Because minerals are naturally occurring substances, the abundance of minerals tends to reflect the abundance of elements as they are found in Earth's crust. Although about 4,000 minerals have been named, there are forty minerals that are commonly found and these are referred to as the rock-forming minerals.
Dolomite /ˈdɒləmaɪt/ is an anhydrous carbonate mineral composed of calcium magnesium carbonate, ideally CaMg(CO 3) 2. The word dolomite is also used to describe the sedimentary carbonate rock, which is composed predominantly of the mineral dolomite (also known as dolostone).
This can be noted by the fact that Dolomite generally forms more elongated crystals than the Calcite Group. In addition, Dolomite never occurs in scalenohedral crystakss, whereas minerals of the Calcite Group do. Dolomite is both a mineral and a rock. The mineral is the pure form, and Dolomite rock is composed mostly of Dolomite but also with impurities such as Calcite, Quartz, and Feldspar. There are many localities that produced fine Dolomite specimens. Most locations are in regions which contain an abundance of this mineral throughout the region. The most prominent European occurrence is Eugui, Navarra, Spain, where clear, transparent crystals, unlike any others were found.
• High-Calcium Limestone: • Magnesian Limestone: Lastly, some dolomites contain an excess of magnesium (Mg) and are called magnesian dolomite or high-magnesium dolomite. The excess magnesium is probably in the form of magnesium carbonate minerals, of which magnesite (MgCO3) is a possible candidate. Limestone, however, is very rarely pure calcite, pure dolomite, or a pure mixture of the two. It typically contains a variety of accessory rock materials of which quartz, chert, clay and pyrite are among the noteworthy.
In calcite, carbonate is chemically combined with calcium to form calcium carbonate (formula CaCO3). In dolomite, carbonate is chemically combined with calcium and the element magnesium (symbol Mg) to form calcium-magnesium carbonate (formula CaMg(CO3)2). In dolomite there is one magnesium atom for every calcium atom. Limestone, however, is very rarely pure calcite, pure dolomite, or a pure mixture of the two. It typically contains a variety of accessory rock materials of which quartz, chert, clay and pyrite are among the noteworthy.
Dolomite is very similar to the mineral calcite. Calcite is composed of calcium carbonate (CaCO 3) while dolomite is a calcium magnesium carbonate (CaMg(CO 3) 2). These two minerals are one of the most common pairs to present a mineral identification challenge in the field or classroom. Dolomite is a word that is used by geologists in two different ways: 1) as the name of the mineral dolomite; and, 2) as the name of a rock known as dolomite, dolostone or dolomite rock. This page is about the mineral dolomite.
Commodity: Limestone, a sedimentary rock that is dominantly composed of the calcium-bearing carbonate minerals calcite and dolomite. Calcite is chemically calcium carbonate (formula CaCO3). Dolomite is chemically calcium-magnesium carbonate (formula CaMg(CO3)2). Limestone, however, is very rarely pure calcite, pure dolomite, or a pure mixture of the two. It typically contains a variety of accessory rock materials of which quartz, chert, clay and pyrite are among the noteworthy.
Dolomite differs from Lime sand and Limestone in that it contains magnesium as well as calcium. It is used to supply both of these elements and is a very effective neutralizing agent. It is a carbonate limestone type product that should contain between 8-12% Magnesium as Mg and 18-22% Calcium as Ca. 
Dolomite, also known as dolostone and dolomite rock, is a sedimentary rock composed primarily of the mineral dolomite, CaMg(CO 3) 2. Dolomite is found in sedimentary basins worldwide. It is thought to form by the postdepositional alteration of lime mud and limestone by magnesium-rich groundwater. Dolomite is a word that is used by geologists in two different ways: 1) as the name of the mineral dolomite; and, 2) as the name of a rock known as dolomite, dolostone or dolomite rock. This page is about