1 Plague is an infectious disease caused by the bacteria known as Yersinia pestis. 2  Plague has a high fatality rate and has been described for centuries. 3  In the Middle Ages, plague was known as the Black Death and caused the death of 60% of the population of Europe. 1 In the Middle Ages, plague was known as the Black Death and caused the death of 60% of the population of Europe. 2  Transmission occurs via fleas that feed on infected animals, typically wild rodents. 3  There are three forms of plague in humans: bubonic plague, septicemic plague, and pneumonic plague.
Bubonic plague is one of three types of bacterial infection caused by Yersinia pestis. Three to seven days after exposure to the bacteria flu like symptoms develop. This includes fever, headaches, and vomiting. Swollen and painful lymph nodes occur in the area closest to where the bacteria entered the skin. In the bubonic form of plague, the bacteria enter through the skin through a flea bite and travels via the lymphatics to a lymph node, causing it to swell. Diagnosis is by finding the bacterium in the blood, sputum, or fluid from lymph nodes.
The plague is a serious bacterial infection that can be deadly. Sometimes referred to as the black plague, the disease is caused by bacteria called Yersinia pestis. This bacteria is found on animals throughout the world and is usually transmitted to humans through fleas.
We now know that plague is caused by a bacterium called Yersinia pestis that often infects small rodents (like rats, mice, and squirrels) and is usually transmitted to humans through the bite of an infected flea. 
Like other forms of the plague, bubonic plague is caused by the Yersinia pestis bacteria. In the bubonic form of the plague, the bacteria are introduced into the body through the skin, via a bite from a flea which carries the disease from an infected rodent. Headaches are common in people with bubonic plague. Bubonic plague manifests in the form of swollen lymph nodes. Bubonic Plague causes large bruises to appear. Exposure to infected rodents like the prairie dog can cause transmission of the
Plague (Black Death) facts. 1  Plague is an infectious disease caused by the bacteria known as Yersinia pestis. 2  Plague has a high fatality rate and has been described for centuries. 3  In the Middle Ages, plague was known as the Black Death and caused the death of 60% of the population of Europe. 4  Transmission occurs via fleas that feed on infected ... 1 In the Middle Ages, plague was known as the Black Death and caused the death of 60% of the population of Europe. 2  Transmission occurs via fleas that feed on infected animals, typically wild rodents. 3  There are three forms of plague in humans: bubonic plague, septicemic plague, and pneumonic plague.
The three types of plague are the result of the route of infection: bubonic plague, septicemic plague, and pneumonic plague. Bubonic plague is mainly spread by infected fleas from small animals. It may also result from exposure to the body fluids from a dead plague infected animal. In the bubonic form of plague, the bacteria enter through the skin through a flea bite and travels via the lymphatics to a lymph node, causing it to swell. Diagnosis is by finding the bacterium in the blood, sputum, or fluid from lymph nodes.
Bubonic plague is the most common form of plague, an illness that occurs in humans, rodents, and ectoparasites (fleas and lice). The condition is caused by Yersinia pestis bacteria and characterized by large, infected lymph nodes called buboes. When an animal or person is infected with Yersinia pestis, the bacteria affect the lymph system, causing the characteristic symptoms. If bubonic plague is left untreated, plague bacteria can quickly multiply in the bloodstream, causing septicemic plague.