What is thyroid stimulating hormone? Thyroid stimulating hormone is produced and released into the bloodstream by the pituitary gland. It controls production of the thyroid hormones, thyroxine and triiodothyronine, by the thyroid gland by binding to receptors located on cells in the thyroid gland. Thyroid stimulating hormone is produced by the pituitary gland. Its role is to regulate the production of hormones by the thyroid gland. Alternative names for thyroid stimulating hormone TSH; thyrotropin, thyrotrophin.
The Production of T3 and T4 are regulated by thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH), released by the pituitary gland. TSH Production is increased when T3 and T4 levels are too low. The thyroid hormones are released throughout the body to direct the body's metabolism. 
The primary function of your thyroid gland is to secrete thyroid hormones, which are responsible for controlling your body’s metabolism. The 2 main thyroid hormones are T3 (triiodothyronine) and T4 (thyroxine). The amount of thyroid hormones secreted is controlled by another hormone, called thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH), which is released from the pituitary gland in your head. 
Thyroid-stimulating hormone, also known as thyrotropin, is secreted from cells in the anterior pituitary called thyrotrophs, finds its receptors on epithelial cells in the thyroid gland, and stimulates that gland to synthesize and release thyroid hormones. 
The hypothalamus and the pituitary gland help control the thyroid gland. The hypothalamus produces thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH), which stimulates the pituitary gland to release thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH). A low level of T3 tells the hypothalamus to release more TRH, and it tells the pituitary to release more TSH. 
The pituitary gland and the thyroid gland work together. The pituitary gland (located near the base of the brain) makes, stores, and releases thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH). When TSH is secreted by the pituitary gland, it causes the thyroid gland to release more T3 and T4. The thyroid gland makes and releases two thyroid hormones: thyroxine (T4) and triiodothyronine (T3). Thyroid hormones affect every cell and all the organs of the body. Too much thyroid hormone speeds things up and too little thyroid hormone slows things down.
The major form of thyroid hormone in the blood is thyroxine (T 4), which has a longer half-life than T 3. In humans, the ratio of T 4 to T 3 released into the blood is roughly 20 to 1. T 4 is converted to the active T 3 (three to four times more potent than T 4) within cells by deiodinases (5'-iodinase). Thyroid hormones (T 4 and T 3) are produced by the follicular cells of the thyroid gland and are regulated by TSH made by the thyrotropes of the anterior pituitary gland. The effects of T 4 in vivo are mediated via T 3 (T 4 is converted to T 3 in target tissues). T 3 is 3- to 5- fold more active than T 4