1 If the brake fluid leak is caused by a worn master cylinder, then the component will need to be replaced. 2  According to YourMechanic.com, replacing the brake master cylinder through a dealer can cost $215.62 to $681.84, depending on the make and model of the vehicle.
If the leak is from the metal brake lines the repair is now much more involved. You need to have the same size metal tubing and a pipe bender to make the bends in the lines. Replace the entire line once a leak is found, not just the leaky section to avoid another leak in a connection in the near future.
The average cost of master cylinder repair is usually between $200 and $300, but it can be more, again, depending on the scope of the fix. If individual wheel cylinders need to be replaced, the cost will go up. The repair price for an entire brake job—rotors, calipers, drums, pads, cylinders—can run you $750 or more.
1 If you choose to get a professional service to check the brake fluid leak, you will need to pay for labor, the cost of which depends on your location and the auto repair center from where you obtain a mechanic.
If it is a disc with caliper and it is leaking from the caliper piston itself, your looking at a new caliper which may run around 40 bucks. You may just have a line leak and in the rear it should be pretty easy to remove and replace with a new section.
1 According to YourMechanic.com, replacing the brake master cylinder through a dealer can cost $215.62 to $681.84, depending on the make and model of the vehicle. 2  At YourMechanic, the replacement job can cost $191 to $474.
When there is a leak in the system, it can result to reduced or even loss of brake pressure, which is a dangerous problem for any vehicle. The cost of fixing a brake fluid leak generally depends on the auto repair shop where the fix is done and the extent of the problem.
unfortunately it will cost about a hundred per side, underneath your car. As for the brake line, flexible line connected to your calipers, those are a little cheaper. They rust out b/c you need to flush your brake fluid every 2-3 years. Brake fluid absorbs moisture.