Webkinz Signature Plush. Webkinz Signature Pets from Ganz are limited edition, collectors pets. These ultra soft plush feature realistic detailing and a special gold-color embroidered logo and tag. 
The Regular Signature Pets are released at a rate of one per month. They are both more detailed, realistic, and more expensive than the Webkinz and Lil Kinz pets. They also have limited availability. The Signature line will be ended by Ganz in December of 2013. [1]. 1  April 2009 - Regular Signature Panda. First there were Webkinz pets, then there were Lil Kinz pets. In April 2009 Ganz expanded the Webkinz line with the addition of Signature pets. Just like the other types of Webkinz, these plushies come with a code that can be used to adopt them in Webkinz World.
Answers. Best Answer: the signature pet of the month just means that that is the signature pet that is being released this month. You do not get any extra activities, or a loot bag like if you adopted the Pet of the Month, which for January is the Schnauzer. 
Answers. Best Answer: Signature Webkinz cost more money and the reason is because you get a bigger plush pet, a signature exclusive item (not the regular exclusive item) and you get a better pet item, most of the time the pet item is interactive and estore quality. Source(s): Best Answer · 6 years ago. 
Here is a list of what is currently available. 1  Webkinz. 2  Sale! $5.00 Webkinz! 3  Sale! $6.99 Webkinz! 4  Sale! $9.99 Webkinz! 5  Retired Webkinz. 6  Lil' Kinz. 7  Mazin Hamsters. 8  Signature Pets. Happy 10th Birthday-Webkinz Sale!: The sale starts April 15th and will run through April 30th. All regular priced Webkinz and accessories will be 25% off!
Regular Signature Pets. First there were Webkinz pets, then there were Lil Kinz pets. In April 2009 Ganz expanded the Webkinz line with the addition of Signature pets. Just like the other types of Webkinz, these plushies come with a code that can be used to adopt them in Webkinz World.
Online Signature Pets sold at Ganz eStore are Online only pets. They come with all of the bonuses and prizes of a plush toy – just without the plush! Item is a virtual, online item for use on a Webkinz.com account only. No Physical Item is included. 
Webkinz (Signature Pets). This list represents the Webkinz Signature Pets we have currently available for sale! Signature Pets are larger than regular sized webkinz. They come brand new with secret code sealed inside tag. 