MPIO is an acronym for MultiPath Input Output. This is a framework that gives administrators the ability to configure load balancing and failover processes for connections to storage devices. This is where MPIO plays a key function, because without it servers would see multiple instances of the same disk. Multipathing solutions use redundant physical path components like adapters, cables, and network switches, to create logical paths between the server and the storage device.
To install MPIO on your server running Windows Server 2008 R2, perform the following steps. To add MPIO on a server running Windows Server 2008 R2. Open Server Manager. To open Server Manager, click Start, point to Administrative Tools, and then click Server Manager. In the Server Manager tree, click Features. To open the MPIO control panel by using the Windows Server 2008 R2 Control Panel. On the Windows Server 2008 R2 desktop, click Start, click Control Panel, and then in the Views list, click Large Icons. Click MPIO.
About MPIO. Microsoft Multipath I/O (MPIO) is a Microsoft-provided framework that allows storage providers to develop multipath solutions that contain the hardware-specific information needed to optimize connectivity with their storage arrays. These modules are called device-specific modules (DSMs). Class drivers (like port and miniport drivers) are not a part of the MPIO driver package per se; however, the PnP disk class driver, disk.sys, is used as part of the multipathing solution because the class driver controls the disk add/removal process, and I/O requests pass through this driver to the MPIO bus driver.
New MPIO features in Windows Server 2008 include a Device Specific Module (DSM) designed to work with storage arrays, and are included with most of the Dell Storage products. The Microsoft DSM provides the following load balancing policies. Most storage arrays offer this in the form of multiple controllers, but the servers still need a way to spread the I/O load and handle internal failover from one path to the next. This is where MPIO plays a key function, because without it servers would see multiple instances of the same disk.
Multipath I/O (MPIO) is a Microsoft framework designed to mitigate the effects of a host bus adapter (HBA) failure by providing an alternate data path between storage devices and a Windows operating system. MPIO enables up to 32 alternate paths to add redundancy and load balancing for Windows storage environments. Pathing is a networking approach used to address the specific needs of storage networks by changing the way that communication paths are managed and organized. While the DSMs must be written for specific hardware and cannot be generic, Microsoft designed MPIO to be as HBA-agnostic as possible. As such, it depends on the rest of the hardware and software to work correctly in order to do its job. MPIO requires at least two HBAs connected to the storage device.
MPIO is a term used in the computer industry and it refers to multipath I/O. It is specifically designed to handle data storage and fetching from various storage devices using multiple paths. This computer storage feature comes as part of Windows Server 2008 and is aimed at improving overall computer performance. With the MPIO feature, the data transfer from the computer’s CPU to other mass storage devices will go through more than one physical path. One great advantage of having a MPIO is that alternative paths are provided in cases wherein a particular path fails. In cases that involve data transfer between a server and a storage subsystem, one would not have to worry if there are other available storage resources just in case the existing path being used fails
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. In computer storage, multipath I/O is a fault-tolerance and performance-enhancement technique that defines more than one physical path between the CPU in a computer system and its mass-storage devices through the buses, controllers, switches, and bridge devices connecting them. 
The MPIO driver is implemented in the kernel mode of the operating system. It works in combination with the PnP Manager, the disk class driver, the port driver, the miniport driver, and a device-specific module (DSM) to provide full multipath functionality. Class drivers (like port and miniport drivers) are not a part of the MPIO driver package per se; however, the PnP disk class driver, disk.sys, is used as part of the multipathing solution because the class driver controls the disk add/removal process, and I/O requests pass through this driver to the MPIO bus driver.