Body aches or pains, Fatigue, Joint aches and Joint pain. WebMD Symptom Checker helps you find the most common medical conditions indicated by the symptoms body aches or pains, fatigue, joint aches and joint pain including Viral syndrome, Exercise or physical activity, and Lyme disease. There are 88 conditions associated with body aches or pains, fatigue, joint aches and joint pain. The links below will provide you with more detailed information on these medical conditions from the WebMD Symptom Checker and help provide a better understanding of causes and treatment of these related conditions.
Symptoms of generalized aches and pains depend on the underlying cause. Symptoms may include muscle aches, muscle tenderness, and muscle cramps. Those with generalized aches and pains may also experience joint pains, joint stiffness, neck pain, and back pain. Usually, the discomfort is most prominent in the muscles and joints. Aches and pains are common during viral infections, such as colds. Generalized aches and pains are one of the most common symptoms of influenza.
Body aches or pains, Fatigue, Headache and Muscle weakness. WebMD Symptom Checker helps you find the most common medical conditions indicated by the symptoms body aches or pains, fatigue, headache and muscle weakness including Lack of exercise, Hypocalcemia, and Viral syndrome. There are 128 conditions associated with body aches or pains, fatigue, headache and muscle weakness. The links below will provide you with more detailed information on these medical conditions from the WebMD Symptom Checker and help provide a better understanding of causes and treatment of these related conditions.
Not all muscle aches are related to stress, tension, and physical activity. Some medical explanations for myalgia include: 1  fibromyalgia. 2  infections, such as the flu. 3  lupus. 4  use of certain medications or drugs, such as statins, ACE inhibitors, or cocaine. 5  dermatomyositis (marked by inflammation and a rash). 6  polymyositis (marked by inflammation and tenderness). Often, people who experience muscle aches can easily pinpoint the cause. This is because most instances of myalgia result from too much stress, tension, or physical activity. Some common causes include: 1  muscle tension in one or more areas of the body.
A person with generalized aches and pains has discomfort in multiple areas of the body. Usually, the discomfort is most prominent in the muscles and joints. Aches and pains are common during viral infections, such as colds. Generalized aches and pains are one of the most common symptoms of influenza. Additional common causes for aches and pains include exercise, stress, depression, and drug side effects
Skeletal muscle aches and pains are most often caused by injury or trauma resulting in muscle strain or tear. A muscle strain occurs when a few muscle fibers are damaged, whereas a muscle tear is a large number of muscle fibers that are ripped apart or torn. A torn tendon can also lead to muscle pain. Skeletal muscle aches and pains can also be caused by cramping of the muscles due to excessive or abnormal nerve impulses that make the muscles contract inappropriately. Muscle cramps often occur when the muscle has been overused or during the night
The most common causes of muscle pain are tension, stress, overuse and minor injuries. This type of pain is usually localized, affecting just one or more muscles or parts of your body. Systemic muscle pain, which you feel throughout your body, is different. 
You may feel muscle aches and pains in a specific area of the body, such as your neck or back, or you may feel aches and pains all over, such as when you have the flu (influenza). Temporary skeletal muscle aches are often caused by minor muscle strain due to an awkward movement or overuse. 
Muscle aches and pains are common and can involve more than one muscle. Muscle pain also can involve ligaments, tendons, and fascia, the soft tissues that connect muscles, bones, and organs. See also: 1  Muscle cramps. 2  Joint pain. 