On top of reasonable prices, Lenscrafters also offers coupons on a range of different products and services to help save you some money. Lenscrafters coupons can be found through the link I just provided. If you are just having the very basic exam, the Lenscrafters eye exam cost is approximately $60 USD. This is a fairly standard price for an eye exam, although if they have a coupon for eye exams the price paid will then drop. If you wish to have more than a basic eye exam (for example a contact lens exam), the cost will also rise. Please note that the actual price at each different Lenscrafters center will vary. Therefore, it may be a good idea to visit a few centers to check prices and service before deciding on the one for you.
Eye Exam Costings. You obviously got to this page to find out Lenscrafters eye exam cost. The Lenscrafters eye exam cost for a basic exam sits at around $60 mark. This price is slightly pricier than at other chains, but also cheaper than some others. Also, this cost does not take into account things such as coupons. Lenscrafters Eye Exam Cost. When you need an eye exam, lets face it, there are so many different options of eye care chains in America, each with their own advantages and disadvantages. You have Lenscrafters, Pearle Vision, America’s Best, and many, many more.
Best Answer: My eye exam at LensCrafters about 3 weeks ago was $75. I have progressive lenses, and I chose the featherweight plus package. Total cost of lenses $315. Cost will vary depending on what you choose in your package. 
The basic eye exam at lenscrafters would cost you $59. However, if you need to get a comprehensive eye exam, you should pay more $35 for your eye exam. But You may find the price of the eye exam different in different places. Some optomologists at Lenscrafters would charge you about $75 for the exam. And some people will pay $150 for the exam. So you'd better go to the lenscrafters near you in your local place to get more information about the eye exam so that you can know the exact cost of the eye exam you will take.
In order to facilitate an easy access to go for regular eye exam, Lenscrafters have offered free eye exam coupons and best eye exam deals. LensCrafters. With the help of best eye exam deals you can get the service for eye exam at a discounted price which is very affordable and also will save your money. The Lenscrafters eye exam cost is worth enough for you to get eye exam regularly. This eye exam coupon is the best chance for you to maintain healthy eyes. 
Eye Exam Costings. You obviously got to this page to find out Lenscrafters eye exam cost. The Lenscrafters eye exam cost for a basic exam sits at around $60 mark. This price is slightly pricier than at other chains, but also cheaper than some others. Also, this cost does not take into account things such as coupons. Lenscrafters Eye Exam Cost. When you need an eye exam, lets face it, there are so many different options of eye care chains in America, each with their own advantages and disadvantages.
You obviously got to this page to find out Lenscrafters eye exam cost. The Lenscrafters eye exam cost for a basic exam sits at around $60 mark. This price is slightly pricier than at other chains, but also cheaper than some others. Also, this cost does not take into account things such as coupons. Some optomologists at Lenscrafters would charge you about $75 for the exam. And some people will pay $150 for the exam. So you'd better go to the lenscrafters near you in your local place to get more information about the eye exam so that you can know the exact cost of the eye exam you will take.