And it’s true, Tempranillo pairs very well with the local cuisine but it works well with all kinds of cuisine. 1  Lasagna, Pizza and dishes with tomato-based sauces. 2  Grits, Polenta and dishes with corn as a major ingredient. 3  Mexican food such as tacos, nachos, burritos and chile rellenos. Tempranillo is technically a medium-bodied wine with red fruit characteristics. If you’ve never tried Tempranillo before you’ll find it tastes similar to Sangiovese and Cabernet Sauvignon. A Note About Body Tempranillo does taste full-bodied on good vintages with the addition of new-oak aging.
Wine 101: Rioja & Tempranillo. Tempranillo, the top red grape from Spain, is best known as the main component in red Rioja—which is often called the Bordeaux of Spain. In Rioja, Tempranillo contributes earthy cherry flavors and firm structure.
Tempranillo. (tem-prah-NEE-yoh): A red wine with cranberry, red berries, smoke & vanilla. Here are a few pairing ideas for best food with Tempranillo 1  : Wine with Meat Paella. 2  Wine with Vegetable Paella. 3  Wine with Seafood Paella. 4  Wine with Chicken Enchiladas. 5  Wine with Grilled Eggplant. 6  Wine with Jamon, Queso y Chorizo. 7  Wine with Pulpo a Feira (Octopus). 8  Wine with Ham Croquettes. 9  Wine with Scalloped Potatoes. Food and Wine Pairing. If you'd like find what wine goes with what food, you can use the Hello Vino tool on this page, or view our large list of food and wine pairing suggestions. Search for a Food & Wine Pairing: For example, search wine with turkey or gouda wine pairing.
Tempranillo Food Pairing. Tempranillo pairs with all kinds of food because it’s savory. The regional Spanish cuisine includes roasted vegetables and cured meats like the lusty Jamon Jamón iberico De. Bellota and’it s, True tempranillo pairs very well with the local cuisine but it works well with all kinds of. cuisine Tempranillo is technically a medium-bodied wine with red fruit characteristics. If you’ve never tried Tempranillo before you’ll find it tastes similar to Sangiovese and Cabernet Sauvignon. A Note About Body Tempranillo does taste full-bodied on good vintages with the addition of new-oak aging.
Fabio Ingrosso/Flickr. Definition: The Tempranillo grape is the dominant grape varietal in Spain's Rioja wines. It produces a medium to full-bodied red wine with lower acidity and full fruit flavor characteristics. These wines are grown primarily in the Rioja and Ribera del Duero regions of Spain. Food Pairings-Tempranillo wines are perhaps one of the most food friendly wines around. They offer versatility and value-without forsaking flavor and lift. Consider pairing them with their hometown favorites-tapas, pork, grilled or roasted entrees.
A Guide to Tempranillo Wine. October 31, 2012 Blog » Wine Tips & Tricks » A Guide to Tempranillo Wine. Articles, Beginner, Tempranillo, Wine Types. The Spanish have been drinking heavily for the last 2000 years. Tempranillo is a wildly diverse food-pairing wine that is easy to find and has a great flavor for the value. Tempranillo is technically a medium-bodied wine with red fruit characteristics. If you’ve never tried Tempranillo before you’ll find it tastes similar to Sangiovese and Cabernet Sauvignon. A Note About Body Tempranillo does taste full-bodied on good vintages with the addition of new-oak aging.
Given its low acidity and fruitiness, Tempranillo wines pair well with a many types of cheese but are most often paired with Spanish cheeses for the simple reason of Terroir. We recommend pairing Rioja wine with Mahon, Artisan Raw Milk Manchego, and Zamorano. 
While Tempranillo gives deep color and full body with aromas and flavors of strawberries, fresh tobacco, and leather, the grape also tends to be lower in acidity and alcohol. For this reason, Tempranillo is often blended with other red grapes such as Garnacha and even Cabernet Sauvignon. Tempranillo is usually highly oaked, making it excellent with grilled vegetables and meats. Serve Tempranillo with grilled peppers, onions, tomatoes, chicken, or beef. A classic Spanish pairing is patatas con chorizo (potatoes with chorizo sausage and sometimes peppers)