The names of some famous persons by the name Sina (or its variants) are: Sina Schielke, born on 19 May, a famous athlete. Sina Schielke's background: A German sprinter famous for her looks as well as her sprinting ability. As a baby girl name, Sina is currently not a popular baby name in the USA. The following chart shows the popularity of the name Sina in the USA, over the past 100 years. USA baby name statistics. You'll need the Adobe Flash Player and a browser with JavaScript enabled to see all baby name popularity charts
Latin Meaning: The name Sina is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Sina is: Blessed. American Meaning: The name Sina is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Sina is: Blessed. SoulUrge Number: 1. Expression Number: 7. People with this name have a deep inner desire to use their abilities in leadership, and to have personal independence.
[ syll. si-na, sin-a ] The baby girl name Sina is also used as a boy name. Sina's language of origin is Germanic. It is predominantly used in German and Scandinavian. The name developed as a short form of other names ending in '-sina'. See Sina for more information. Sina is a form of the English Seanna. Sina is also a form of the English and Irish Sheena. Forms of Sina include the name Seena, the name Sinai, the name Sinaia, the name Sinan, the name Sinay, the German Sinja, and the German Sinje. Sina is not often used as a baby girl name. It is not in the top 1000 names
Surname Meanings & Origins. Learn about the origin of your surname, the history and meaning of your surname, if your surname is common and where it is common, and the how and why of name changes and variant spellings. 
Sina /sina/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is of Irish origin, and the name Sina means treasure; God is gracious. Sina is a variant transcription of Seema (Hebrew, Aramaic). Sina is also a variation of Sheena (Irish): form of Jane (Hebrew) God's grace. Sina is also used as a variation of Sinead (Irish, Hebrew).
Sina may refer to: 1  Chin (China) , or Sina (Chinese: 支那, 震旦), old Chinese form of the Sanskrit name Cina (चीन). 2  Shina (word) , or Sina (Japanese: 支那), old Japanese word for China. 3  Sinae, Latin name for China. 4  Sina Corp (新浪), Chinese company and website. 5  Sina, Albania, or Sine, sinë village In Diber, Dibër.  county albania 
More About Iranian Name: Sina. Sina` comes from a Hebrew word meaning: `explorer of knowledge`, the Arabic form of the word is `Bagher`. It is a popular name in Iran, largely due to Avicenna. It's very popular name in Iran, Tajikistan. Sina means: explorer of knowledge. List of Iranian baby names, Iranian baby boy names (male), girl names (female) & Iranian names meanings has been compiled from various resources. Please use this list of Iranian baby names only for reference/idea to name your kid/child.
Sina is a somewhat popular first name for women (#4018 out of 4276, Top 94%) and an even more popular last name for all people (#64186 out of 150436, Top 43%). (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the baby name popularity of Sina for girls. Sina is a variant transcription of Seema (Hebrew, Aramaic). Sina is also a variation of Sheena (Irish): form of Jane (Hebrew) God's grace. Sina is also used as a variation of Sinead (Irish, Hebrew).
Sina is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 4 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Si-na. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 10465 in baby name popularity for boys with 7 occurrences. It ranked 12832 in popular baby names for girls with 8 occurrences. View the Sina Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Sina has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Sina to other names.