PowerPoint. Add the shape or text box that you want to change the formatting defaults for. Select the shape or text box. Change the shape or text box fill, color, style, or weight of a shape or text box border, text color, font color, and any other changes that you want. Do one of the following: Excel. Add the shape or text box that you want to change the formatting defaults for. Select the shape or text box. Change the shape or text box fill, color, style, or weight of a shape or text box border, font color, and any other changes that you want. Do one of the following:
Excel. Click the shape that you want to change. To select multiple shapes, press and hold CTRL while you click the shapes. For more information about selecting shapes, see Select a shape or other object. Under Drawing Tools, on the Format tab, in the Insert Shapes group, click Edit Shape. If you do not see the Drawing Tools or Format tabs, make sure that you selected a shape. Point to Change Shape, and then click the shape that you want.
Word. Click the shape that you want to change. Under Drawing Tools, on the Format tab, in the Insert Shapes group, click Edit Text. If you do not see the Drawing Tools or Format tabs, make sure that you selected a shape. To change multiple shapes, press and hold SHIFT while you click the shapes that you want to change. For more information about selecting shapes, see Select a shape or other object. Under Drawing Tools, on the Format tab, in the Insert Shapes group, click Edit Shape. If you do not see the Drawing Tools or Format tabs, make sure that you selected a shape. Point to Change Shape, and then click the shape that you want.
1 You can add a shape to PowerPoint by clicking the Insert tab and choosing the Shapes button in the Illustrations section. 2  Insert the shape you want from the drop-down pane. 3  You can change the formatting of the text you have added by selecting the shape and the text you have added. 1 Insert the shape you want from the drop-down pane. 2  You can change the formatting of the text you have added by selecting the shape and the text you have added. 3  Make changes to the formatting box near the text you have entered. 4  You can change the font, font color, size, alignment and other elements.
Select another shape and add some text to it. Step # 5 - Change text wrap in shape. Go to the format tab under the drawing tools and select the action box button which is right next to the WordArt styles. Uncheck the option which says wrap text in shape and click on the close button. To add text shape in an existing slide, select a shape from top right corner of the main menu. With the help of the drag option of your mouse, place it wherever you want on the slide. Step # 7 - Edit text options. Type some text in the shape box. Click on its boundary and go to the home tab.
Outlook. Add the shape or text box that you want to change the formatting defaults for. Select the shape or text box. Change the shape or text box fill, color, style, or weight of a shape or text box border, text color, and any other changes that you want. Excel. Add the shape or text box that you want to change the formatting defaults for. Select the shape or text box. Change the shape or text box fill, color, style, or weight of a shape or text box border, font color, and any other changes that you want. Do one of the following:
PowerPoint. Click the shape that you want to change. To select multiple shapes, press and hold CTRL while you click the shapes. For more information about selecting shapes, see Select a shape or other object. Under Drawing Tools, on the Format tab, in the Insert Shapes group, click Edit Shape. If you do not see the Drawing Tools or Format tabs, make sure that you selected a shape. Point to Change Shape, and then click the shape that you want.
Outlook. Click the shape that you want to change. To select multiple shapes, press and hold CTRL while you click the shapes. For more information about selecting shapes, see Select a shape or other object. Under Drawing Tools, on the Format tab, in the Insert Shapes group, click Edit Shape. If you do not see the Drawing Tools or Format tabs, make sure that you selected a shape. Point to Change Shape, and then click the shape that you want.