Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is a recessive X-linked form of muscular dystrophy, affecting around 1 in 3,600 boys, which results in muscle degeneration and premature death. The disorder is caused by a mutation in the gene dystrophin, located on the human X chromosome, which codes for the protein dystrophin. 
The symptoms of muscular dystrophy are the result of a deterioration of the body's muscles. This deterioration is due to the death of the muscle cells and muscle tissues and leads to ongoing muscle wasting and muscle weakness. Muscular dystrophy progresses and gets worse over time eventually. Duchenne MD is the most common form of MD and primarily affects boys. It is caused by the absence of dystrophin, a protein involved in maintaining the integrity of muscle. Onset is between 3 and 5 years and the disorder progresses rapidly.
The muscular dystrophies (MD) are a group a group of genetic diseases characterized by progressive weakness and degeneration of the skeletal or voluntary muscles which control movement. Duchenne MD is the most common form of MD and primarily affects boys. It is caused by the absence of dystrophin, a protein involved in maintaining the integrity of muscle. Onset is between 3 and 5 years and the disorder progresses rapidly.
Muscular dystrophy. muscular dystrophy. A group of diseases characterised by progressive degeneration and/or loss of muscle fibres without nervous system involvement. All or nearly all of them have a hereditary origin but details of the type of genetic defect and of the prognosis for the disease vary from type to type.
Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) — The most severe form of muscular dystrophy, DMD usually affects young boys and causes progressive muscle weakness, usually beginning in the legs. Dystrophin — A protein that helps muscle tissue repair itself. 1 Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD): DMD affects young boys, causing progressive muscle weakness, usually beginning in the legs. 2  It is the most severe form of muscular dystrophy. 3  DMD occurs in about 1 in 3,500 male births, and affects approximately 8,000 boys and young men in the United States
The muscles of the heart and some other involuntary muscles are also affected in some forms of muscular dystrophy, and a few forms involve other organs as well. The major forms of muscular dystrophy include: 1  Duchenne muscular dystrophy. 2  Becker muscular dystrophy. 3  limb-girdle muscular dystrophy. 4  facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy. 5  congenital muscular dystrophy. 6  oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy. 7  distal muscular dystrophy. 8  Emery-Dreifuss muscular dystrophy and
The most common form is Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD), which results from genetic mutations within the dystrophin gene itself. Replacing the mutated gene with a normal or “wild-type” copy would therefore correct the problem and restore muscle structure and function. 
For example, Duchenne muscular dystrophy and Becker muscular dystrophy are caused by mutations in the dystrophin gene, whereas limb-girdle muscular dystrophies are caused by mutations in other genes. Duchenne MD is the most common form of MD and primarily affects boys. It is caused by the absence of dystrophin, a protein involved in maintaining the integrity of muscle. Onset is between 3 and 5 years and the disorder progresses rapidly.
Definition. Muscular dystrophy is a group of diseases that cause progressive weakness and loss of muscle mass. In muscular dystrophy, abnormal genes (mutations) interfere with the production of proteins needed to form healthy muscle. There are many different kinds of muscular dystrophy. Symptoms of the most common variety begin in childhood, primarily in boys.