Posted: 04/14/2015 4:59 pm EDT Updated: 04/15/2015 2:59 pm EDT. Nope, it isn't magic, and the pilot isn't wildly flapping her arms up and down. Thankfully, the physics that keeps an airplane aloft is a bit more down to earth. In simple terms, planes are held aloft by lift, the force generated when air flows over and under an airplane wing simultaneously. Air travels faster over the curved top of the wing than below it.
An airplane can have 0 MPH ground speed while in the air only IF the wind is going faster then the stall speed of the gi … ven aircraft. An airplane could theoretically even go backwards if the wind speed was faster then the stall speed of a
It is the combined forces of lift, thrust and weight that keeps an airplane in the air. Lift happens to be the largest force in this equation, and is dependent on the speed of the wing (or how fast an airplane is going), vertical velocity of air and air density.
Thrust and lift are two other forces that help your plane make a long flight. Thrust is the forward movement of the plane. The initial thrust comes from the muscles of the pilot as the paper airplane is launched. After this, paper airplanes are really gliders, converting altitude to forward motion.
Yes, to a degree, speed is part of the equation. Speed = thrust, and combine that with lift and weight (though weight has to be smaller than lift and thrust combined!), then y … ou are able to get and keep an airplane in the air.
Sound is made up of molecules of air that move. They push together and gather together to form sound waves. Sound waves travel at the speed of about 750 mph at sea level. When a plane travels the speed of sound the air waves gather together and compress the air in front of the plane to keep it from moving forward.
A stall does not stop an airplane while in the air. Stalls typically occur around 40 to 60 MPH (depending on aircraft) and will cause the plane to nose forward and gain speed again (if proper weight and balance has been maintained). In extended climbs in my Mooney, I have seen ground speeds under 10 MPH in the climb.