Growing Temperatures. The optimum temperature for growing a successful cabbage crop is 60 to 65 degrees Fahrenheit. Cabbage will grow at temperatures as low as 45 degrees and can tolerate high temperatures up to 80 degrees, but if it gets any warmer, cabbage will bolt. When a plant bolts, it produces a flower stalk and then and goes to seed.
Use A Soil Thermometer. For cool season vegetables and for warm season vegetables, one of the best tools you can own is soil thermometer, because soil temperature is the best indicator of when to plant each type of vegetable, no matter what climate zone you live in.
Cool-season vegetables grow best when temperatures range between 40 degrees F and 75 degrees F. In most areas, they can be planted two to four weeks before the last spring frost. These crops often are those that develop edible roots, stems, leaves, or buds, such as potatoes, broccoli, and spinach. Purchase a soil thermometer to help you know when to plant cool-season vegetables. At a soil temperature of 40 degrees F, plant arugula, fava beans, kale, lettuces, parsnips, peas, radicchio, radishes, and spinach. At a soil temperature of 50 degrees F, plant Chinese cabbage, leeks, onions, Swiss chard, and turnips.
At a soil temperature of 60 degrees F, plant beets, broccoli, Brussels sprouts, cabbage, carrots, and cauliflower. Other cool-season vegetables include asparagus, celery, collards, garlic, kohlrabi, potatoes, rhubarb, and rutabagas. Purchase a soil thermometer to help you know when to plant cool-season vegetables. At a soil temperature of 40 degrees F, plant arugula, fava beans, kale, lettuces, parsnips, peas, radicchio, radishes, and spinach. At a soil temperature of 50 degrees F, plant Chinese cabbage, leeks, onions, Swiss chard, and turnips.
Vegetables are designated warm-season or cool-season, depending on the weather they need for best growth. Warm-season vegetables, such as peppers and tomatoes, are summer crops; they require both warm soil and high temperatures to grow and produce fruit. They are killed by frost. Plant them after the last frost in spring.
1 Insert the thermometer 4 inches (10 cm) for warm season vegetables such as tomatoes, eggplants, peppers, cucumbers, squash, corn and melons. 2  Take the temperature at the same time each day for several days in a row and average them out. For cool season vegetables and for warm season vegetables, one of the best tools you can own is soil thermometer, because soil temperature is the best indicator of when to plant each type of vegetable, no matter what climate zone you live in.
Each vegetable crop grows best in its own range of temperatures. The optimal temperature range for peppers and eggplants, for example, is 70° to 85°F; pollination will not occur if the night temperature falls below 55°F, and blossoms may fall if the temperature rises above 85°F. 
Wait until the soil warms to above 70 degrees to plant warm-season vegetables such as tomatoes, eggplants, peppers, cucumbers, squash, corn and melons. It can take several weeks for tomatoes, eggplant and peppers to germinate in the garden. 
Crops: beans, celery, corn, cucumbers, New Zealand spinach, and summer squash. Temperatures: Tender vegetables grow with daytime temperatures above 55°F, and are intolerant of frost. When to plant: 1  Based on soil temperature, refer to Table 2. 2  Soil is adequately dry to work. 3  These crops may be planted (from seed) around the date of the average last spring frost. Temperatures: Very tender vegetables are not only intolerant of frost, but also cool spring winds. They need daytime temperatures above 60°F, and prefer temperatures of 70°F to 95°F. A week of daytime temperatures below 55°F may stunt the crop.
Vegetables are categorized into either cool or warm season crops. Cool season crops, such as spinach, leaf lettuce, peas, onions and root crops, can germinate at minimum temperatures of 35-40 degrees. The optimum germination rate is 80 degrees, yet they do not prefer to grow in 80 degree temperatures. 