Netdom is in Win2K’s Support\Tools folder. To reset a machine account password, enter. After you enter the command, you’ll see the following. You need to run this Netdom command on the machine for which you want to change the password.
netdom resetpwd /s:server /ud:domain\User /pd:*. / 1 s:server is the name of the domain controller to use for setting the machine account password. 2  This is the server where the KDC is running. / 3 ud:domain\User is the user account that makes the connection with the domain you specified in the /s parameter.
This step-by-step article describes how to use Netdom.exe to reset machine account passwords of a domain controller in Windows Server 2008 R2, in Windows Server 2008, or in Windows Server 2003.
1 /s:server is the name of the domain controller to use for setting the machine account password. 2  This is the server where the KDC is running. / 3 ud:domain\User is the user account that makes the connection with the domain you specified in the /s parameter. 4  This must be in domain\User format.
1 Install the Windows Server 2003 Support Tools on the domain controller whose password you want to reset. 2  These tools are located in the Support\Tools folder on the Windows Server 2003 CD-ROM. 3  To install these tools, right-click the Suptools.msi file in the Support\Tools folder, and then click Install.
A: To reset a computer account's Active Directory (AD) password from the command line, you can use Windows PowerShell or Netdom.exe. To reset the computer password on your local machine using PowerShell, you must use the Reset-ComputerMachinePassword cmdlet.
The following procedure describes how to use the netdom command to reset a machine account password. This procedure is most commonly used on domain controllers, but also applies to any Windows machine account.
A description of this command is: / 1 s:server is the name of the domain controller to use for setting the machine account password. 2  This is the server where the KDC is running. / 3 ud:domain\User is the user account that makes the connection with the domain you specified in the /s parameter.
You cannot change the machine account password by using the Active Directory Users and Computers snap-in, but you can reset the password by using the Netdom.exe tool. The Netdom.exe tool is included in the Windows Support Tools for Windows Server 2003.
1 Install the Windows Server 2003 Support Tools on the domain controller whose password you want to reset. 2  These tools are located in the Support\Tools folder on the Windows Server 2003 CD-ROM. 3  To install these tools, right-click the Suptools.msi file in the Support\Tools folder, and then click Install.