In addition, covered establishments will also be required to post a statement on menus and menu boards about the availability of such additional written nutrition information. To be covered, an establishment must be a restaurant or similar retail food establishment, as defined in the final rule. In addition, such establishment must: (1) be part of a chain of 20 or more locations, (2) doing business under the same name, (3) offering for sale substantially the same menu items. As required by statute, FDA’s final rule for nutrition labeling in chain restaurants and similar retail food establishments will provide consumers with clear and consistent nutrition information in a direct and accessible manner for the foods they eat and buy for their families.
First, the establishment must be a restaurant or similar retail food establishment, as defined in the rule. Next, the establishment must: (1) be part of a chain of 20 or more locations, (2) doing business under the same name, and (3) offering for sale substantially the same menu items. The rule allows the use of the following to be used on menus and menu boards targeted to children:  1 1,200 to 1,400 calories a day is used for general nutrition advice for children ages 4 to 8 years, but calorie needs vary..
1 ERS research shows that away-from-home meals and snacks tend to contain more calories and to be of lower nutritional quality than food prepared at home. 2  Recent legislation will require chain restaurants across the United States to list calorie information on their menus and menu boards. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 will require chain restaurants to post the number of calories in each standard menu item. Some restaurants already voluntarily provide calorie counts or other nutritional information, and some States and local governments have made such labeling mandatory.
All ingredients in the food must be declared in the statement of ingredients for the food using one of the following: 1. The common name of the ingredient 2. A name that describes the true nature of the ingredient 3. 
Sometimes, vegetarian or vegan dishes are offered on the menus. Yet even if they are not, it is possible to order menu items without certain ingredients; you just need to ask. For instance, otherwise vegan tacos and pizzas can be ordered without cheese at some restaurant chains that serve these foods. Nevertheless, the vegetarian and vegan should be wary about hidden ingredients (such as gelatin in guacamole or a Danish), or objectionable preparation methods (such as frying hash browns in the same oil used to fry meat/seafood products). It is always best to ask at a particular restaurant.
Menu Labeling Requirements At-A-Glance. In a nutshell. Americans eat and drink about one-third of their calories away from home. Making calorie information available on chain restaurant menus will help consumers make informed choices for themselves and their families. As required by statute, FDA’s final rule for nutrition labeling in chain restaurants and similar retail food establishments will provide consumers with clear and consistent nutrition information in a direct and accessible manner for the foods they eat and buy for their families.
1 Recent legislation will require chain restaurants across the United States to list calorie information on their menus and menu boards. 2  Calorie disclosure may prompt consumers to substitute menu items that lower their caloric intakes and may encourage restaurants to offer lower calorie options. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 will require chain restaurants to post the number of calories in each standard menu item. Some restaurants already voluntarily provide calorie counts or other nutritional information, and some States and local governments have made such labeling mandatory.
Changes to food labelling have now been in place since December 2014. They help provide allergen ingredients information in a clearer and more consistent way. For example, any of the 14 allergens that are on the regulatory list are to be emphasised on the label of a pre-packaged food if they are used as ingredients. Good news for consumers. It’s good news for consumers, as these changes mean that allergen ingredients information is provided in a clearer and more consistent way – making it easier to make safer food choices when buying food or eating out.
Now EU wants allergy alerts on all menus: Restaurants will be forced to list 14 substances including milk and mustard when rules are introduced later this year. 1  Prue Leith described the changes as a ‘bureaucratic nightmare'. 2  New rules easy for McDonald's and KFC but difficult for smaller eateries who change menu daily. However, while this might be a simple task for the big brand chains who have a limited range of standard items, like McDonald’s and KFC, it will be an enormous burden for independents who change their dishes based on the fresh ingredients that are available.