Pygmy goats are precocial and polyestrous breeders; bearing one to four young every nine to 12 months after a five-month gestation period. Does are usually bred for the first time at about twelve to 18 months, although they may conceive as early as two months if care is not taken to separate them early from male kids. The pygmy goat is quite hardy, an asset in a wide variety of settings, and can adapt to virtually all climates. Castrated males are called wethers and can be shown in pet classes. There are also pedigree classes at shows for entire goats.
GOAT'S RUE Overview Information. Goat's rue is a plant. The parts that grow above the ground are used to make medicine. Be careful not to confuse goat's rue (Galega officinalis) with rue (Ruta graveolens). Goat's rue is used along with conventional treatment for diabetes and as a diuretic. In combination with other herbs, goat's rue is used to stimulate the adrenal gland and pancreas; to protect the liver; for digestion problems; and to start the flow of breast milk. Goat's rue is a plant. The parts that grow above the ground are used to make medicine. Be careful not to confuse goat's rue (Galega officinalis) with rue (Ruta graveolens)
A pygmy goat is a breed of miniature domestic goat. Pygmy goats tend to be kept as pets primarily, though also work well as milk producers and working animals. The pygmy goat is quite hardy, an asset in a wide variety of settings, and can adapt to virtually all climates. Castrated males are called wethers and can be shown in pet classes. There are also pedigree classes at shows for entire goats.
The goat is a member of the family Bovidae and is closely related to the sheep as both are in the goat-antelope subfamily Caprinae. There are over 300 distinct breeds of goat. Goats are one of the oldest domesticated species, and have been used for their milk, meat, hair, and skins over much of the world. Milk production varies with the breed, age, quality, and diet of the doe; dairy goats generally produce between 680 and 1,810 kg (1,500 and 4,000 lb) of milk per 305-day lactation. On average, a good quality dairy doe will give at least 3 kg (6 lb) of milk per day while she is in milk.
Castrated males are wethers. Goat meat from younger animals is called kid or cabrito (Spanish), and from older animals is simply known as goat or sometimes called chevon (French), or in some areas  mutton  (which more often refers to adult sheep meat). Milk production varies with the breed, age, quality, and diet of the doe; dairy goats generally produce between 680 and 1,810 kg (1,500 and 4,000 lb) of milk per 305-day lactation. On average, a good quality dairy doe will give at least 3 kg (6 lb) of milk per day while she is in milk.
There are 4 kinds of goat farming. One is raising goats for the sole purpose of harvesting milk. Goat's milk can be used as buttermilk, candy, cheese, cream cheese, ghee (clarified butterfat,) kefir (fermented alcoholic goat's milk,) substitute for cow's milk, and yogurt. The second type of goat farming is when you raise the aforementioned animals for meat. You can either sell the meat as fresh produce or to be used in sausages, salted meat, and smoked meat cuts.
Originally titled The Miniatu... Learn about the benefits of goat milk and the value dairy goats provide to the homestead. Whether your property is one acre or several hundred, sloping or flat, crowded with brush or completely forested, you can still raise dairy goats for milk. I have a friend whose brother refused to drink goat milk because he knew he wouldn't like it, says 20-year goat veteran Gail Damerow, editor of Rural Heritage magazine and author of Your Goats and Raising Milk Goats Successfully. Gail's friend bought a carton of cow's milk from the store for her visiting brother.
Uses for goats: there's a heap! There are so many things that you can use your goat for today; the possibilities are endless! Generally, there are three types of goats: meat goats, angora goats and dairy goats. The meat goats are Boer goats, which is their breed, but often dairy goat wethers (boys that are unable to produce offspring) are killed and eaten. Angora and Cashmere goats are goats that are bred for their wool, just like sheep. Milk and meat production, by products may include leather, soaps, and wool materials. Some goats produce fibre which is called mohair or cashmere. Goats are also used for cl … earing weeds from land and in some countries they are still used for carrying gear (like a pack horse) or for pulling small carts.