Determining NOL Amount. If your business expenses are more than your business income, you may have a net operating loss (NOL) for the year. However, simply having a negative amount on the taxable income line on your income tax return is not a guarantee that you actually have a net operating loss. If you have a net operating loss from your sole proprietorship, you'll normally be able to deduct the loss from your total income from other business ventures or from any salary, wages, or other earnings.
Sign in to your return. Start Tax Return Sign In. Income Taxes for Self-Employed Business Owners and Independent Contractors 1 2 Next If you are not an employee and work on your own, you will pay taxes a little differently than employees do. 
If the business loss exceeds your total income for the year, any unused portion of the loss can be used to offset income and reduce taxes in another year. The remainder of this discussion is intended to give you a basic understanding of how NOLs work for sole proprietors. If you have a net operating loss from your sole proprietorship, you'll normally be able to deduct the loss from your total income from other business ventures or from any salary, wages, or other earnings.
Handle your business losses properly. When you opened your business, you hoped to be reporting a profit when tax time rolled around. But if you end up with a loss instead, you can take some of the sting out of the situation by reporting and deducting that loss on your income taxes. Business losses are deductible for tax purposes, but you do need to report them properly to avoid problems with the Internal Revenue Service.
But self-employed people must report their earnings and pay their taxes directly to IRS.You’re self-employed if you operate a trade, business or profession, either by yourself or as a partner. You report your earnings for Social Security when you file your federal income tax return. If you’re self-employed, you pay the combined employee and employer amount, which is a 12.4 percent Social Security tax on up to $118,500 of your net earnings and a 2.9 percent Medicare tax on your entire net earnings.
1 For sole proprietors, your net business income is the amount on which you must pay self-employment taxes. 2  If your business is a partnership, LLC, or corporation, you must follow somewhat different rules. 3  Net operating losses. 4  Owning a business is full of surprises. This amount is your net profit for tax purposes. There are two important issues to consider when computing your net profit: 1  Self-employment taxes. 2 
Penalties. In the event the Internal Revenue Service determines your business is only a hobby, you will have to amend your tax returns for the years in question. You will have to pay any tax underpayment as a result of the reclassification of activity, plus the disallowed losses against other income. While many hobbies generate income, the key tax difference between a hobby and a business is that you may use a business loss to offset other taxable income, but you may only write off hobby expenses up to the amount of income you receive.
There are many taxes that you can deduct when operating a business. For example, if your state taxes the gross income of your business, you can deduct that tax on your federal return. As an employer, you can also deduct your share of your workers' employment taxes. You can potentially reduce your taxable income significantly by taking all the deductions you’re entitled to as business expenses. Knowing which expenses are deductible is important. If you are a shareholder or partner in the 25% tax bracket, for example, every dollar of deductions saves 25 cents of taxes.
If you have a profit, it is also subject to SE tax at 15.3%. For LLC you must pay minimum franchise fee every month even if you have a loss or you did not start any business activity. So you must file your tax returns. Source(s): http://taxipay.blogspot.com/2008/04/tax-... Jss · 6 years ago
When computing your earnings subject to the tax, you've got to net your profits and losses from all your business activities that would be subject to the tax. For example, you have $60,000 of self-employment income as a partner and a $35,000 loss from your auto repair shop you run as a sole proprietorship. Your net earnings subject to the tax are $25,000. If you have a net loss, you're not liable for the tax. You get no W-2 and nothing is withheld from your pay for FICA or medicare taxes. (If you're an employee, 7.65% is withheld from your pay and your employer matches that amount.) In order to collect a similar amount for social security and medicare, a sole proprietor has to pay 15.3% of his self-employment income.