A combinational circuit consists of input variables, output variables, logic gates and interconnections. The interconnected logic gates accept signals from the inputs and generate signals at the output. For each binary combination of the input variables, there is one possible binary value on each output. Thus, a combinational circuit can be specified by a truth table that lists the output values for each combination of the input variables.
Answers. Best Answer: Combinational Circuit Logic circuits for digital systems may be combinational or sequential. A combinational circuit consists of logic gates whose outputs at any time are determined by combining the values of the applied inputs using logic operations. For each binary combination of the input variables, there is one possible binary value on each output. Thus, a combinational circuit can be specified by a truth table that lists the output values for each combination of the input variables.
Combinational circuit is a circuit in which we combine the different gates in the circuit, for example encoder, decoder, multiplexer and demultiplexer. Some of the characteristics of combinational circuits are following −. Half Adder. Half adder is a combinational logic circuit with two inputs and two outputs. The half adder circuit is designed to add two single bit binary number A and B. It is the basic building block for addition of two single bit numbers. This circuit has two outputs carry and sum.
In digital circuit theory, sequential logic is a type of logic circuit whose output depends not only on the present value of its input signals but on the sequence of past inputs, the input history. This is in contrast to combinational logic, whose output is a function of only the present input. 
Combinational Logic. In combinational logic, the output is a function of the present inputs only. The output is independent of the previous outputs; therefore it is sometimes, called time independent logic. Combinational logic is used to perform Boolean operation on binary input signals and binary data. 
The result is that combinational logic circuits have no feedback, and any changes to the signals being applied to their inputs will immediately have an effect at the output. In other words, in a Combinational Logic Circuit, the output is dependant at all times on the combination of its inputs. An example of a combinational circuit is a decoder, which converts the binary code data present at its input into a number of different output lines, one at a time producing an equivalent decimal code at its output.
Multiplexer is a special type of combinational circuit. There are n-data inputs, one output and m select inputs with 2m = n. It is a digital circuit which selects one of the n data inputs and routes it to the output. The selection of one of the n inputs is done by the selected inputs. Half Adder. Half adder is a combinational logic circuit with two inputs and two outputs. The half adder circuit is designed to add two single bit binary number A and B. It is the basic building block for addition of two single bit numbers. This circuit has two outputs carry and sum.
Not to be confused with combinatory logic, a topic in mathematical logic. In digital circuit theory, combinational logic (sometimes also referred to as time-independent logic) is a type of digital logic which is implemented by Boolean circuits, where the output is a pure function of the present input only. In other words, sequential logic has memory while combinational logic does not. Combinational logic is used in computer circuits to perform Boolean algebra on input signals and on stored data. Practical computer circuits normally contain a mixture of combinational and sequential logic.