5 Microorganism-Produced Enzymes in the Food Industry Izabel Soares, Zacarias Tavora, Távora Rodrigo Patera barcelos And Suzymeire Baroni Federal university of The Bahia / Reconcavo center For Health Sciences brazil. 1 Renin, an animal-produced enzyme, is the protease which caused the hydrolysis of milk protein. Proteases, enzymes that catalyze the cleavage of peptide bonds in proteins, are Class 3 enzymes, hydrolases, and sub-class 3.4, peptide-hydrolases.
Enzymes at Work. There are all sorts of enzymes at work inside of bacteria and human cells, and many of them are incredibly interesting! Cells use enzymes internally to grow, reproduce and create energy, and they often excrete enzymes outside their cell walls as well. For example, E. coli bacteria excrete enzymes to help break down food molecules so they can pass through the cell wall into the cell
What are Enzymes... An enzyme is a protein that acts as a catalyst. The enzyme is responsible for accelerating the rate of a reaction in which various substrates are converted to products through the formation of an enzyme-substrate complex. Do enzymes break down any molecule or just specific ones and how specific do they get: (Above). The specificity of an enzyme for it's substrate is generally a function of the enzyme's active site or binding site. The structure of the protein determines the range of substrates or keys that can fit into the lock.
Industrial fermentation is the intentional use of fermentation by microorganisms such as bacteria and fungi to make products useful to humans. Fermented products have applications as food as well as in general industry. Some commodity chemicals, such as acetic acid, citric acid, and ethanol are made by fermentation. In the process of sewage treatment, sewage is digested by enzymes secreted by bacteria. Solid organic matters are broken down into harmless, soluble substances and carbon dioxide. Liquids that result are disinfected to remove pathogens before being discharged into rivers or the sea or can be used as liquid fertilizers.
5. How do bacteria break down any molecule or just specific and how specific do they get: Bacteria have the capability of producing many different types of enzymes. They are living organisms that respond to their environment. Do enzymes break down any molecule or just specific ones and how specific do they get: (Above). The specificity of an enzyme for it's substrate is generally a function of the enzyme's active site or binding site. The structure of the protein determines the range of substrates or keys that can fit into the lock.
The quantities of enzymes produced vary depending on the bacterial species and the culture conditions (e.g., nutrients, temperature, and pH) and growth rate. Hydrolytic enzymes such as. proteases, amylases, and cellulases, etc. are produced in the range of milligrams per liter to grams per liter. 10. Do enzymes break down any molecule or just specific ones and how specific do they get: (Above). The specificity of an enzyme for it's substrate is generally a function of the enzyme's active site or binding site. The structure of the protein determines the range of substrates or keys that can fit into the lock.
Activity optimal for pH's of various enzymes vary; however, the optimal pH's for the biological catalysts produced by most commercial strains of microorganisms lies between pH 4.0 and 7.5. Figure 1, indicates a difference in activity levels that various enzymes exhibit at varying pH levels. Another major affect of enzyme activity and stability is temperature. Since enzymes are biochemical catalysts, made up at least partially of protein, they are sensitive in varying degrees to heat.
Bacterial enzymes. Many of the enzymes used industrially are produced by culturing bacteria. These investigations explore bacterial digestive enzymes and show how their activity can be measured. 
They can change the type of enzymes that they produce if the food source changes. They can protect themselves from changes in environmental conditions by forming colonies, biofilms, or spores. Importantly, bacteria live in communities made up of different species. Do enzymes break down any molecule or just specific ones and how specific do they get: (Above). The specificity of an enzyme for it's substrate is generally a function of the enzyme's active site or binding site. The structure of the protein determines the range of substrates or keys that can fit into the lock.