A master craftsman or master tradesman (sometimes called only master or grandmaster, German: Meister) was a member of a guild. In the European guild system, only masters and journeymen were allowed to be members of the guild. 
The working class (sometimes called proletariat, a French term) consists of all people who must work (another word for work is labor) for someone else in order to make money with which to survive. First of all, a class is a group of human beings who share common interests, because they experience common conditions.
A June 2013 report by the Michigan Department of Technology, Management and Budget, however, generated the following list of trades (divided into industrial, construction, and service skilled trades), along with their Standard Occupational Classification System code: 
The term middle class is often used by the mainstream media, erroneously, to refer to most Americans who are in fact working class. The middle class actually refers to a section of the population which owns small businesses, as opposed to high-level managers and owners of corporations. First of all, a class is a group of human beings who share common interests, because they experience common conditions.
Tradesman. A tradesman or tradesperson is a skilled manual worker in a particular trade or craft. Economically and socially, a tradesman's/tradesperson's status is considered between a laborer and a professional, with a high degree of both practical and theoretical knowledge of his or her trade. 
Determine your eligibility — Skilled trades. As of January 2015, we have a new system for people to apply to this program. It is called Express Entry. The Federal Skilled Trades Program is for people who want to become permanent residents based on being qualified in a skilled trade. In Canada, provinces and territories issue certificates of qualification in the skilled trades. To get a certificate, the provincial or territorial trades authority must assess your training, trade experience and skills to decide if you are eligible to write an exam to be certified.
As an eligible apprentice mechanic, you must first calculate the tradesperson's tools deduction, if any, that you qualify for. You may be able to get a rebate of the GST/HST you paid. For more information, see GST/HST Rebate. Employed tradespersons (including apprentice mechanics). You may be able to deduct the cost of eligible tools you bought in 2014 to earn employment income as a tradesperson and as an eligible apprentice mechanic. This cost includes any GST, and provincial sales tax (PST), or HST you paid
The golden rule is that you should always check your tradesperson holds the right licence for the job. Licensing protects you in the following ways: 1  you deal with a legitimate business. 2  the tradesperson has the right qualifications for the job. The research shows that 80% of home owners think licensing is important, but only one in ten go to the Fair Trading’s website to check if a tradesperson is licensed or not. Read more about Fair Trading’s licensing research findings. Do a free home building licence check.
Choosing a builder or tradesperson. Only a builder or trader who is properly trained and has the relevant experience to do the work may be licensed with NSW Fair Trading. The research shows that 80% of home owners think licensing is important, but only one in ten go to the Fair Trading’s website to check if a tradesperson is licensed or not. Read more about Fair Trading’s licensing research findings. Do a free home building licence check.