Comments: 0. The ' plica syndrome ' is a group of symptoms that are commonly associated with the presence of an abnormally thickened plica. A plica is a fold of the soft inner lining of the knee joint (this lining is called the ' synovium ', so a plica is also often called a ' synovial plica ').
Introduction Plica syndrome is an interesting problem that occurs when an otherwise normal structure in the knee becomes a source of knee pain due to injury or overuse. The diagnosis can sometimes be difficult, but if this is the source of your knee pain, it can be easily treated.
Normally a plica does not cause problems, but it can become inflamed and thickened from injury or overuse. This is called plica syndrome.. Plica syndrome can interfere with normal joint function and cause pain when the thickened plica rubs over other structures in the knee. 
Plica syndrome is often characterized by anterior knee pain, which is most commonly found along the superomedial aspect of the knee. The “plica” is due to remnant embryological tissue that compartmentalizes the knee during fetal development. Usually plica syndrome is characterized by pain near the anteromedial (in front and toward the midline) side of patella (kneecap). Usually the pain is associated with bending of the knee and is irritated after and during exercise.
Most often plica syndrome is precipitated by a history of blunt trauma to the front of the knee or prolonged strenuous exercise. The plica is an embryologic remnant that is present throughout life, but is believed that a traumatic event or repetitive microtrauma is responsible for inciting inflammation and symptoms. Usually plica syndrome is characterized by pain near the anteromedial (in front and toward the midline) side of patella (kneecap). Usually the pain is associated with bending of the knee and is irritated after and during exercise.
Plica syndrome is an irritation of the membrane in the knee joint that keeps the joint lubricated. When this tissue on the inside of the kneecap becomes irritated, it results in knee pain and tenderness to touch. Often the result of overuse, plica syndrome may also result from a direct-hit injury. With plica syndrome, you may experience pain and tenderness to touch in the front of the knee, and on the inside of the kneecap. You may also feel a catching or snapping sensation when bending your knee. Symptoms to watch for include: 1  T
A plica is a fold of synovial membrane most commonly in the anteromedial aspect of the knee. Plica are present in about 50% of the population and are thought to be the remnants of embryonic connective tissue that failed to fully resorb during your foetal development. Luckily, most plicae are asymptomatic. While your knee potentially has four plica it is the medial plica that is most likely to be symptomatic (Dupont 1997). It runs parallel to your medial patella just below your medial retinaculum and inserts into your fat pad.
Plica syndrome is an interesting problem that occurs when an otherwise normal structure in the knee becomes a source of knee pain due to injury or overuse. The diagnosis can sometimes be difficult, but if this is the source of your knee pain, it can be easily treated. The primary symptom caused by plica syndrome is pain. There may also be a snapping sensation along the inside of the knee as the knee is bent. This is due to the rubbing of the thickened plica over the round edge of the thighbone where it enters the joint.
Plica syndrome (also known as synovial plica syndrome) is a condition which occurs when a plica (an extension of the protective synovial capsule of the knee) becomes irritated, enlarged, or inflamed. The most common location of plica tissue is along the medial (inside) side of the knee. The plica can tether the patella to the femur, be located between the femur and patella, or be located along the femoral condyle.
Background. Plica syndrome of the knee is a constellation of signs and symptoms that occur secondary to injury or overuse. Plica is a Latin word meaning fold.. This term is simply a descriptive one; there is no empiric evidence that true folding of the synovial lining ever occurs. The mediopatellar plica (referred to by some as the Aoki ledge or Iino band) is the most frequently cited cause of plica syndrome. It lies on the medial wall of the joint, originating suprapatellar, and courses obliquely down to insert on the infrapatellar (ie, Hoffa) fat pad.