Skewness is asymmetry in a statistical distribution, in which the curve appears distorted or skewed either to the left or to the right. Skewness can be quantified to define the extent to which a distribution differs from a normal distribution. 
Solution: 1  Step 1: Two nonparallel lines in space that do not intersect are called Skew lines. 2  Step 2: Among the pairs, the lines and are nonparallel and lie in different planes, and do not intersect each other.. 3  Step 3: So, and are skew lines among the given pairs. 
verb. To skew is to twist something so it is not straight or to distort something so it is biased or unfair. verb. verb. 1  To turn or place at an angle: skew the cutting edge of a plane. 2  To give a bias to; distort: The use of a limited sample skewed the findings of the study.
In probability theory and statistics, skewness is a measure of the asymmetry of the probability distribution of a real-valued random variable about its mean. The skewness value can be positive or negative, or even undefined. The qualitative interpretation of the skew is complicated. 
LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. verb. To skew is to twist something so it is not straight or to distort something so it is biased or unfair. An example of skew is when you fix a contest so it is biased in favor of your friends. verb. verb. 1  To turn or place at an angle: skew the cutting edge of a plane. 2  To give a bias to; distort: The use of a limited sample skewed the findings of the study.
3 [mass noun] Statistics The state of not being symmetrical. Example sentences. 1  We see in the subsequent section that this fairly small skew from equal frequencies nonetheless yields a substantive potential for ‘nonstandard’ dynamical behavior. 
skew. v. skewed, skew·ing, skews. v. tr. 1. To turn or place at an angle: skew the cutting edge of a plane. 2. To give a bias to; distort: The use of a limited sample skewed the findings of the study. v. intr. 1. To take an oblique course or direction. 2
, transitive. , intransitive. verb. verb. 1  To turn or place at an angle: skew the cutting edge of a plane. 2  To give a bias to; distort: The use of a limited sample skewed the findings of the study.
DEFINITION of 'Skewness'. Describe asymmetry from the normal distribution in a set of statistical data. Skewness can come in the form of negative skewness or positive skewness, depending on whether data points are skewed to the left (negative skew) or to the right (positive skew) of the data average. Next Up. 