The electromagnetic spectrum is the range of all possible frequencies of electromagnetic radiation. The electromagnetic spectrum of an object has a different meaning, and is instead the characteristic distribution of electromagnetic radiation emitted or absorbed by that particular object. The electromagnetic spectrum extends from below the low frequencies used for modern radio communication to gamma radiation at the short-wavelength (high-frequency) end, thereby covering wavelengths from thousands of kilometers down to a fraction of the size of an atom.
The energy in light travels because of local fluctuating changes in electrical and magnetic fields-hence electromagnetic radiation. ELECTROMAGNETIC RADIATION. This page is a basic introduction to the electromagnetic spectrum sufficient for chemistry students interested in UV-visible absorption spectroscopy. Light has a constant speed through a given substance. For example, it always travels at a speed of approximately 3 x 108 metres per second in a vacuum. This is actually the speed that all electromagnetic radiation travels-not just visible light.
Radio waves, gamma-rays, visible light, and all the other parts of the electromagnetic spectrum are electromagnetic radiation. Electromagnetic radiation can be described in terms of a stream of mass-less particles, called photons, each traveling in a wave-like pattern at the speed of light. Radio waves are also emitted by stars and gases in space. Microwave: Microwave radiation will cook your popcorn in just a few minutes, but is also used by astronomers to learn about the structure of nearby galaxies. Infrared: Night vision goggles pick up the infrared light emitted by our skin and objects with heat.
Infrared radiation comprises the region of the electromagnetic spectrum where the wavelength of light is measured region from one millimeter (in wavelength) down to 400 nm. Infrared waves are discernible to humans as thermal radiation (heat). Included on the electromagnetic spectrum are radio waves and microwaves; infrared, visible, and ultraviolet light; x rays, and gamma rays. Though each occupies a definite place on the spectrum, the divisions between them are not firm: as befits the nature of a spectrum, one simply blurs into another.
ELECTROMAGNETIC RADIATION This page is a basic introduction to the electromagnetic spectrum sufficient for chemistry students interested in UV-visible absorption spectroscopy. Light has a constant speed through a given substance. For example, it always travels at a speed of approximately 3 x 108 metres per second in a vacuum. This is actually the speed that all electromagnetic radiation travels-not just visible light.
The electromagnetic (EM) spectrum is the range of all types of EM radiation. Radiation is energy that travels and spreads out as it goes  the visible light that comes from a lamp in your house and the radio waves that come from a radio station are two types of electromagnetic radiation. Radio waves are also emitted by stars and gases in space. Microwave: Microwave radiation will cook your popcorn in just a few minutes, but is also used by astronomers to learn about the structure of nearby galaxies. Infrared: Night vision goggles pick up the infrared light emitted by our skin and objects with heat.
The other types of EM radiation that make up the electromagnetic spectrum are microwaves, infrared light, ultraviolet light, X-rays and gamma-rays. You know more about the electromagnetic spectrum than you may think. The image below shows where you might encounter each portion of the EM spectrum in your day-to-day life. Radio waves are also emitted by stars and gases in space. Microwave: Microwave radiation will cook your popcorn in just a few minutes, but is also used by astronomers to learn about the structure of nearby galaxies. Infrared: Night vision goggles pick up the infrared light emitted by our skin and objects with heat.
At most wavelengths, however, the information carried by electromagnetic radiation is not directly detected by human senses. Natural sources produce EM radiation across the spectrum, and technology can also manipulate a broad range of wavelengths. The electromagnetic spectrum extends from below the low frequencies used for modern radio communication to gamma radiation at the short-wavelength (high-frequency) end, thereby covering wavelengths from thousands of kilometers down to a fraction of the size of an atom.
Electromagnetic Spectrum. The electromagnetic spectrum covers a wide range of wavelengths and photon energies. Light used to see an object must have a wavelength about the same size as or smaller than the object. The ALS generates light in the far ultraviolet and soft x-ray regions, which span the wavelengths suited to studying molecules and atoms. Look at the picture of the electromagnetic spectrum.
The Star-Spectroscope of the Lick Observatory in 1898. Astronomical spectroscopy is the study of astronomy using the techniques of spectroscopy to measure the spectrum of electromagnetic radiation, including visible light, which radiates from stars and other hot celestial objects. 