Description of Alcaligenes faecalis. Alcaligenes faecalis: The type species of gram negative bacteria in the genus ALCALIGENES, found in soil. It is non-pathogenic, non-pigmented, and used for the production of amino acids. Source: MeSH 2007
Learn more about this article. Alcaligenes is a genus of Gram-negative, aerobic, rod-shaped bacteria. The species are motile with one or more peritrichous flagella and rarely nonmotile. It is a genus of nonfermenting bacteria (in the family Alcaligenaceae). Usually referred to as aerobic oxidase-positive, Gram-negative, peritrichous rods or cocci, but the identity and status of the genus are unclear. Several species are associated with infections in humans and other animals, although this genus is well represented in natural aquatic and soil habitats.
(bacterium). Curved, straight or bean-shaped: bacilli come in many variants and are widely spread. Alcaligenes faecalis is a Gram-negative, rod-shaped bacterium with flagella, and belong to the family of Alcaligenaceae. Particularly in immunosuppressed people, the opportunistic pathogen may trigger local infections, including peritonitis, meningitis, otitis media, appendicitis, and bloodstream infection. 
Alcaligenes faecalis occur in water and soil. The microbe has peritrichous flagellar arrangement which allows for motility (2). It is a gram-negative, rod-shaped organism observed at 0.5-1.0 μm x 0.5-2.6 μm in diameter. As Alcaligenes faecalis is a gram-negative bacterium, it possesses an outer membrane (composed of lipopolysaccharides, phospholipids, and proteins), a thin peptidoglycan layer, and a periplasm. These three layers form the gram-negative cell envelope.
(December 2009). Alcaligenes faecalis is a Gram-negative, rod-shaped, motile, non-nitrate-reducing, oxidase-positive, catalase-positive, alpha-hemolytic, and citrate-positive (variable) obligate aerobe commonly found in the environment. A. faecalis has been used for the production of nonstandard amino acids. A. faecalis is normally found in soil, water, and environments in association with humans. It is also commonly found in pet birds such as monk parakeets. Its presence is considered normal.
Alcaligenes faecalis. A bacillus which is a motile, non-nitrate reducing, oxidase positive, catalase positive, and citrate positive gram-negative obligate aerobe that colonises humid areas in hospitals and may transiently colonise the skin.