INTRODUCTION. Anastomotic channels, known as collateral vessels, can develop in the heart as an adaptation to ischemia [ 1,2 ]. They serve as conduits that bridge severe stenoses or connect a territory supplied by one epicardial coronary artery with that of another [ 3 ]. 
blood vessel. any of the vessels conveying the blood; an artery, arteriole, vein, venule or capillary. collateral vessel. 1. a vessel that parallels another vessel, a nerve, or other structure. 2. a vessel important in establishing and maintaining collateral circulation. great v's the large vessels entering the heart, including the aorta, the pulmonary arteries and veins, and the venae cavae. lacteal vessel those that take up chyle from the intestinal wall during digestion. 
It is considered to be protective. Collateral or anastomotic blood vessels also exist even when blood supply is adequate to an area, and these blood vessels are often taken advantage of in surgery. Some notable areas where this occurs include the abdomen, rectum, knee, shoulder, and head. 
These blockages often cause insufficient blood flow to a patient’s heart muscle. Collateral vessels benefit some myocardial ischemia patients when their extra vessels open up and supply blood to the heart, partially replacing the lack of circulation in the blocked arteries. The collateral vessels can be microscopic or they may grow larger. In some individuals, enlarged collateral blood vessels begin to transport blood. Some cases of active collateral circulation are beneficial, while in other instances, this kind of added blood circulation can cause serious medical complications.
Collateral Vessel Closure. Collateral vessels are abnormal blood vessels that connect the aorta with the pulmonary arteries. The aorta is a blood vessel that carries blood from the heart to arteries throughout the body. Pulmonary arteries are the vessels that transfer blood from the heart back to the lungs for oxygen. Everyone has collateral vessels, but they're normally small and not in use. They become enlarged in some people with congenital heart disease (heart disease that's present since birth).
Collateral circulation is a network of tiny blood vessels, and, under normal conditions, not open. When the coronary arteries narrow to the point that blood flow to the heart muscle is limited (coronary artery disease), collateral vessels may enlarge and become active. 
This is often a result of anastamoses, branches formed between adjacent blood vessels. Collateral circulation can be established in the venous system (between veins) or in the arterial system (between arteries). It may arise from pathological conditions such as congestion or ischaemia. An example of the usefulness of collateral circulation is a systemic thrombo-embolism in cats. This is when a thrombus lodges above the external iliac artery (common iliac artery), blocking the external and internal iliac arteries and effectively shutting off all blood supply to the hind leg
Collateral vessels are extra blood vessels that connect portions of the same artery or link two different arteries. These alternate blood circulation routes develop in most people and are usually closed to the flow of blood. The collateral vessels can be microscopic or they may grow larger. In some individuals, enlarged collateral blood vessels begin to transport blood. Some cases of active collateral circulation are beneficial, while in other instances, this kind of added blood circulation can cause serious medical complications.
348,632 Helpful Votes. 386 Followers. A. Collateral blood vessels are small capillary-like branches of an artery that form over time in response to narrowed coronary arteries. The collaterals bypass the area of narrowing and help to restore blood flow