 Both parents must be present to sign the application before a Consular Officer.  If only one parent can accompany the child, a signed, notarized Form DS-3053, Statement of Consent and a copy of their official photo ID is required. 
Either parent can sign for the child passport book as their legal guardian due to the child being under age, and considered a minor. In the signature section of the passport book, the mother or father will print the child's name and sign their own name next to it. In parenthesis, the parent will indicate who signed, by writing (mother) or (father) in order to show correct authorities who signed the passport book.
1 On the signature line of the child’s passport, print the child’s name. 2  Sign your name in the space next to the child’s name. 3  After your name, write “mother” or “father” in parenthesis. If your child is too young, then either you or the other parent must do so instead. Here’s how: 1  On the signature line of the child’s passport, print the child’s name. 2  Sign your name in the space next to the child’s name.
My child is too young to sign his/her own passport. In the space provided for the signature, the mother or father must print the child's name and sign their own name. Then, in parenthesis by the parent's name, write the word (mother) or (father) so we know who signed for the child. Please select which type of passport service you need:
Children who are 11 years of age or over are required to sign their passport only if their signature appears on page 2 of the passport. Otherwise, the signature block should be left blank on page 3. Parents must never sign a child's passport. Children under 11 years of age do not sign the passport-the signature line on page 3 must be left blank. Children who are 11 years of age or over must sign their passport only if their signature appears on page 2 of the passport. There is no need to wait. A passport issued to a child has the same format and validity as a passport issued to an adult. It has an expiry date of five years from the date of issue, and this will not be subject to any change when your child turns 16. Parents must never sign a child's passport.
Every U.S. citizen is required to have a passport to travel abroad. Minor children and infants are no exception. Among other things, a U.S. passport must bear the signature of the person who holds it. If a child does not yet have the ability to sign her own name, a parent may sign the passport on the child's behalf. (Stockbyte/Stockbyte/Getty Images).
Sign it using your typical signature, the same way you would sign a check or a credit card receipt. Wait for the ink to dry before closing your passport, to prevent smears. Step 3. Print the name of a child on his passport's signature line if he is too young to sign his own name. Next to your child's name, sign your own name, then print your name in parentheses. Your passport is the most important thing you can carry when traveling internationally. This official documentation allows you to travel because of how accurately it identifies you, bearing both your photo and signature. For your passport to be valid, you have to sign it in a specific fashion. This is especially important in the case of passports for minors, so follow the proper protocols to ensure that you and your loved ones can travel hassle-free