Your Baby's Developmental Milestones. Find out when your baby might walk, talk, crawl, grasp objects, and hit other fantastic firsts from birth to 6 months and 7 to 12 months. Plus, learn when other babies reached their milestones, and discover new Wow!-worthy development facts. 
Now, what we're really saying is that 50% of all babies have fully mastered all the skills needed to crawl by about 7 months. What this also means is that any baby taking longer than 7 months to crawl, is still learning other basic skills or becoming physically stronger. Obviously there are 2 answers to this question. Firstly, about 50% of all infants can crawl at 7 months; 75% can do so at 10 months and 90% of all infants have mastered it at 11 months. Click here to read more about crawling development
My daughter started crawling around 6 1/2-7 months. I agree w/ everyone else that all babies are different, and yes Becky, babies will crawl when they are ready, but I think the average is around 6-8 months. Report Abuse. My daughter started crawling around 6 1/2-7 months. I agree w/ everyone else that all babies are different, and yes Becky, babies will crawl when they are ready, but I think the average is around 6-8 months. I can't remember for sure, but I think they usually sit up on their own before starting to crawl.
Most babies learn to crawl between the ages of 7 and 10 months. Your baby may opt for another method of locomotion around this time, though – like bottom shuffling (scooting around on her bottom, using a hand behind and a foot in front to propel herself), slithering on her stomach, or rolling across the room. Baby on the move: Crawling Signs that your baby's ready to crawl, and the different forms it can take. Baby on the move: Crawling.
The average age for babies to start crawling is between 7-10 months. Some crawl later than this and some don’t bother crawling at all – this is nothing to worry about, lots of babies skip crawling and of course go on to meet or even beat other developmental milestones. 1 By 12 months old most babies will have mastered the art of crawling; this is when they can move one arm and the opposite leg at the same time. 2  It is then that he will be speeding around the floor. 3  If you haven’t done so already, I strongly recommend that you look at childproofing your home.
Your baby will likely start crawling soon after he's able to sit well without support (probably by the time he's 8 months old). After this point, he can hold his head up to look around, and his arm, leg, and back muscles are strong enough to keep him from falling on the floor when he gets up on his hands and knees. Baby on the move: Crawling Signs that your baby's ready to crawl, and the different forms it can take. Baby on the move: Crawling.
Most babies start crawling when they become 7 months old. However, some babies don’t begin crawling until they reach the age of 10 months. Besides crawling, babies tend to adopt new methods of movement which include rolling, scooting and slithering. The style adopted by the baby for movement is not important. Encourage tummy time. To encourage your baby to start crawling, you should try to help him in strengthening the muscles of his legs and arms. You can do this by laying him on his tummy as soon as he reaches the age of three months.
Most babies master crawling when they are aged between 7 and 10 months old. Some start earlier than that, and others start later. Some babies skip the crawling stage altogether, and move straight onto pulling themselves up using the furniture. 
On average, if a baby is going to crawl, sometime between 7-10 months is when this skill will be perfected. Some babies start going through the motions, such as getting up on hands and knees and rocking back and forth as early as 4-5 months. Some babies don't show any interest in crawling until closer to 12 months. Report Abuse. The average age to learn to crawl is 8 months old. Of course that means some babies crawl earlier -- rarely by 6 months old, and some never crawl at all or only just shortly before learning to walk.