Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The five-pointed star, or pentagram is one of the most potent, powerful, and persistent symbols in human history. It has been important to almost every ancient culture, from the Mayans of Latin America, to India, China, Greece, and Egypt. While they are believed to have some spiritual significance, the meaning of the star-shape to early humans is a mystery. In the civilizations that followed, it held various meanings, usually astronomical and religious. Pentagrams served to mark directions in Sumerian texts, and represented the five visible planets
The number of points can be significant from a numerological point of view. Here are a few of the more common star symbols, along with some background on their meanings. 5 Points-The Pentacle, Pentagram A common symbol amongst Pagans and Wiccans alike, though more often seen with a circle enclosing the star.
Pentagram (5 pointed star with one point up, usually depicted within a circle) - If you are speaking of what a lot of folks refer to as a wiccan star then we have a whole different meaning. I will do by borrowing from The Cauldron: a Pagan Forum-The pentagram has long been associated with mystery and magic. Here are a few of the more common star symbols, along with some background on their meanings. 5 Points-The Pentacle, Pentagram A common symbol amongst Pagans and Wiccans alike, though more often seen with a circle enclosing the star.
Also, the five pointed star can represent the the Human Being as a whole. The top point of the star that points up represents the soul or the head of the being or the Spritual Realm. The other points are the limbs of the Human being. ..Also, in paganism,wicca and a few other spiritual-identities/nature-based spiritualities, the Five Pointed Star represents the The Five Sacred Things/Elements. Fire, Water, Earth, Air, and Spirit. Each of the Symbols on the five-pointed emblem represent a heroine of the Eastern Star. The symbol on the blue star-point is the sword and veil (it represents Adah). The symbo … l on the Yellow star-point is the Sheaf. (It represents Ruth).
The top point of the star that points up represents the soul or the head of the being or the Spritual Realm. The other points are the limbs of the Human being. ..Also, in paganism,wicca and a few other spiritual-identities/nature-based spiritualities, the Five Pointed Star represents the The Five Sacred Things/Elements. Here are a few of the more common star symbols, along with some background on their meanings. 5 Points-The Pentacle, Pentagram A common symbol amongst Pagans and Wiccans alike, though more often seen with a circle enclosing the star.
The signification of stars is the knowledges of good and truth. That stars have this signification in the Word is because they are small luminaries which shine at night, when they give forth into our atmosphere gleams of light, just as knowledges give forth gleams of good and truth. 
Pentagram (5 pointed star with one point up, usually depicted within a circle) - If you are speaking of what a lot of folks refer to as a wiccan star then we have a whole different meaning. I will do by borrowing from The Cauldron: a Pagan Forum-The pentagram has long been associated with mystery and magic. Each of the Symbols on the five-pointed emblem represent a heroine of the Eastern Star. The symbol on the blue star-point is the sword and veil (it represents Adah). The symbo … l on the Yellow star-point is the Sheaf. (It represents Ruth).
Points on a Star There are many symbols seen in the various Pagan religions, and stars are some of the most popular. But it can be confusing when there are different styles and types to choose from. Here are a few of the more common star symbols, along with some background on their meanings. 5 Points-The Pentacle, Pentagram A common symbol amongst Pagans and Wiccans alike, though more often seen with a circle enclosing the star.
The Pentagram is a symbol of a star encased in a circle. Always with 5 points (one pointing upward), each has its own meaning. The upward point of the star is representative of the spirit. The other four points all represent an element; earth, air, fire, and water. All these things contibutite to life and are a part of each of us. The ratio of the distance between two points of a pentagram to its total width is in the golden proportion, as is the ratio of the height above the horizontal bar to that below, as is the ratio of a central part of a line to the outer part.