Weather lowdown. The weather continues to cool down in Rome, Italy in November, when winter is just around the corner. During this month, the average temperature begins at 14°C-15°C at the start and cools down to around 10°C by the end.
Average Temperatures for Italy in November. Average temperatures for November at cities and vacation spots all over Italy are listed below in degrees Celsius and Fahrenheit. 2. The regions of central Italy include Lazio and Tuscany (Toscana) along the west coast, Umbria in the interior and Marche on the east coast. The highest weather station of this group sits at 1875 metres (6150 feet) on Monte Terminillo.
Temperatures in November vary depending on where you are in Italy, but as a general rule of thumb these are the ranges: 1  Northern Italy: 35-50°F (2-10°C). 2  Central Italy: 45-60°F (7-16°C). 3  Southern Italy: 55-65°F (13-18°C). Weather in November in Italy. If it wasn’t already raining and cold by the end of October in Italy, expect both of those things in abundance in November. In some areas you’ll still get lucky with relatively warm days, but most of the country is headed straight for winter weather.
Central Italy. The regions of central Italy include Lazio and Tuscany (Toscana) along the west coast, Umbria in the interior and Marche on the east coast. The highest weather station of this group sits at 1875 metres (6150 feet) on Monte Terminillo. 2. The regions of central Italy include Lazio and Tuscany (Toscana) along the west coast, Umbria in the interior and Marche on the east coast. The highest weather station of this group sits at 1875 metres (6150 feet) on Monte Terminillo.
November marks the end of the autumn season for Florence, Italy, when the temperatures drop, the precipitation increases and the daily hours of sunshine decrease. At this time of year, the average temperature for the city starts off at 13.5°C created by highs of 18°C during the daytime and lows of 9°C on an evening. 
Sunny skies, mild humidity and temperatures in the mid-to low 70s F -- this ideal weather doesn't happen in Spain and Italy's steamy Mediterranean summers. Fall is one of the best times weather-wise to visit most locations in Spain and Italy. In November, central and southern Italy experience weather more akin to a mild September in many countries with temperatures ranging from the low 50s to high 60s and occasional showers. It’s the ideal time to visit Rome; hotel prices drop, tourist clear out and precipitation remains sparse and infrequent
Northern Italy. In the north of the country, temperatures decrease steeply in November. In Milan, Turin, Venice and other parts of Northern Italy, the average temperature ranges from 1 to 11 degrees Celsius (33 to 52 degrees Fahrenheit). November days can be rainy and the nights tend to get bitterly cold. Central Italy. In the centre of the country, including cities like Rome, Ancona and Perugia, temperatures also lower significantly, usually staying between 8 and 17 degrees Celsius (46 and 62 Fahrenheit).
Check the Weather in Italy in November before you book your next holiday. This gives the best indication of the weather in November and includes figures for temperature, sunshine and rainfall. The Italy november weather guide shown below is for Rome. 1  17°C max day temperature. 