Invasive species in the Everglades are exotic plants and animals that have aggressively adapted to conditions in wilderness areas in southern Florida. 
The American crocodile lives in the coastal mangroves and Florida Bay. Everglades National Park has 27 different kinds of snakes alone. Mammals: The Everglades' most endangered animal, a mammal, is the Florida panther, of which about 80 now survive. Other well-know Everglades mammals are water-dwellers--the West Indian manatee, which is also endangered, and the bottlenose dolphin. When an ecosystem is out of balance and native plants and animals are struggling, species from other parts of the world can take advantage of the changed conditions to establish themselves. Some introduce species become a small part of the landscape, while others thrive at the expense of native plants and wildlife.
One of the key reasons for the establishment of Everglades National Park was to preserve some of the region's rare and beautiful plants in their natural surroundings. This variety of plants is a blend of tropical and temperate zone species, each adapting to a special niche in the watery world of the Everglades. These plants do not harm the tree; they only use the tree bark as an anchoring place. Cypress was logged and sold commercially as lumber in the 1940s. Today the trees in Everglades National Park and Big Cypress National Preserve are protected.
Threats to the Everglades. Invasive Species. When an ecosystem is out of balance and native plants and animals are struggling, species from other parts of the world can take advantage of the changed conditions to establish themselves. Some introduce species become a small part of the landscape, while others thrive at the expense of native plants and wildlife.
During high water and after fire, you may see them along roads that are next to their habitats. They may be up to two feet long (60 cm). Several exotic species of lizards have been able to adapt to the Everglades environment. These exotics often compete for food, shelter, and territory with native lizards. Reptiles and amphibians are animals whose body temperature changes with their surroundings (cold-blooded). Everglades National Park, with its semi-tropical climate, is an ideal home for these creatures.
The Everglades is a swampy area located in southern Florida. The Indians called this the “River of Grass” because it is a body of water fifty miles wide and six inches deep that runs from Lake Okeechobee to the Gulf of Mexico through prairies of sawgrass. There has been a severe change in water flow to the Everglades. Because of these changes there is habitat and animal loss due to the lack of food and water. To protect this ecosystem, part of the Everglades was turned into a national park in 1947.
The Everglades are a natural region of tropical wetlands in the southern portion of the U.S. state of Florida, comprising the southern half of a large watershed. The system begins near Orlando with the Kissimmee River, which discharges into the vast but shallow Lake Okeechobee. 
Wetlands: Species--Plants. Plants play a very important role in the wetlands ecosystem: they are primary producers. They trap and store sunlight in the form of chemical energy. This energy is then used by the animals that eat the plants, and the microorganisms that break down dead plant material. Wetlands plants have evolved many specialized adaptations in order to survive in these low-oxygen ecosystems. For example, while the root systems of terrestrial, or dry land, plants extend deep into the soil to obtain water, the root systems of wetlands plants are often quite shallow.
Many wetlands animals have also developed complex adaptations that enable and sometimes even require them to live in wetlands. For example, amphibians and some insects lay their eggs in water. These eggs hatch and the emerging larva have gills through which they breathe oxygen from the water. 
The Everglades is internationally known for its extraordinary wildlife--from Florida panthers, to crocodiles, manatees, and a huge host of birds such as roseate spoonbills, egrets, and wood storks. Plants: The diversity of Everglades' habitats means there's also a great diversity of plants. When an ecosystem is out of balance and native plants and animals are struggling, species from other parts of the world can take advantage of the changed conditions to establish themselves. Some introduce species become a small part of the landscape, while others thrive at the expense of native plants and wildlife.