In electronics, a diode is a two-terminal electronic component that conducts primarily in one direction (asymmetric conductance); it has low (ideally zero) resistance to the flow of current in one direction, and high (ideally infinite) resistance in the other. A semiconductor diode, the most common type today, is a crystalline piece of semiconductor material with a p–n junction connected to two electrical terminals. A vacuum tube diode has two electrodes, a plate (anode) and a heated cathode. Semiconductor diodes were the first semiconductor electronic devices.
The most common function of a diode is to allow an electric current to flow in one direction (called the forward biased condition) but to block it in the opposite direction (the reverse biased condition). Thus, the diode can be thought of as an electronic version of a check valve. 
The most common function of a diode is to allow an electric current to pass in one direction (called the diode's forward direction), while blocking current in the opposite direction (the reverse direction). Thus, the diode can be viewed as an electronic version of a check valve. A semiconductor diode, the most common type today, is a crystalline piece of semiconductor material with a p–n junction connected to two electrical terminals. A vacuum tube diode has two electrodes, a plate (anode) and a heated cathode. Semiconductor diodes were the first semiconductor electronic devices.
In simple language, a diode is like one-way valve which allows electric current to flow in one direction but generally does not allow it to flow in the opposite direction. The direction of the electric current in the diode may be reversed. However, even if it is, the flow will still be one directional. 
Diodes. A diode is a discrete component that allows current to flow in one direction only. It is a polarised component with two leads, called the cathode and the anode. The cathode is normally marked with a silver or coloured band or the symbol ' - '
Diode is a two terminal device (di-means two). Simply put, it acts as a one-way valve for electrons. Conventional current can flow from the anode to the cathode, but not in the other direction. If an intrinsic semiconductor is doped with a pentavalent or trivalent impurities you get a diode. Selenium diodes work much like any other diode. They allow current to flow in a forward direction and block current from flowing in the opposite direction. They have a h … igher forward bias voltage then silicon and as such generate much more heat then a comparable silicon diode.
Part of the Electronics glossary: A diode is a specialized electronic component with two electrodes called the anode and the cathode. Most diodes are made with semiconductor materials such as silicon, germanium, or selenium. 
But the direction of current flow absolutely does matter. As for diodes, ideally, a diode allows current to flow through it in only one direction, from anode to cathode. Specifically, above a certain threshold voltage, it only requires a very small increase in voltage to increase the current to astronomical levels: (CC image from openwetware.org). 