Phentermine (Adipex-P, Suprenza) is an amphetamine-like prescription medication used to suppress appetite. It can help weight loss by decreasing your hunger or making you feel full longer. Phentermine is also available in a combination medication for weight loss (Qsymia). Phentermine is a Schedule IV drug, a classification given to drugs that have a potential for abuse, although the actual potential appears to be low. Although phentermine is one of the most commonly prescribed weight-loss medications, it has some potentially serious drawbacks.
Adipex-P (phentermine) is an appetite suppressant used in combination with diet and exercise for the short-term treatment of obesity. A generic version is available. Our Adipex-P Side Effects Drug Center provides a comprehensive view of available drug information on the potential side effects when taking this medication. This is not a complete list of side effects and others may occur. Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects.
The active ingredient in the Adipex diet pill is phentermine, which is similar in structure to an amphetamine. The Adipex diet pill works by affecting parts of the central nervous system, which effectively suppress hunger, and therefore, cravings. The Adipex diet pill is known to increase levels of energy within patients, which is ideally expended through exercise and being generally active. Adipex diet pills are manufactured by Gate Pharmaceuticals-now part of Teva Pharmaceuticals, the world leader in generic drugs-who have been marketing the diet pill since 1990. The dosage of Adipex is 37.5mg and it is available in tablet or capsule form.
Uses. Phentermine is used with a doctor-approved exercise, behavior change, and reduced-calorie diet program to help you lose weight. It is used by certain overweight people, such as those who are obese or have weight-related medical problems. Remember that your doctor has prescribed this medication because he or she has judged that the benefit to you is greater than the risk of side effects. Many people using this medication do not have serious side effects. This medication may raise your blood pressure.
Here is a collection of user reviews for the medication Adipex-P sorted by most helpful. See User Reviews. Report Problems to the Food and Drug Administration. You are encouraged to report negative side effects of prescription drugs to the FDA. Visit the FDA MedWatch website or call 1-800-FDA-1088. Our Adipex-P Side Effects Drug Center provides a comprehensive view of available drug information on the potential side effects when taking this medication. This is not a complete list of side effects and others may occur. Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects.
Answer: Adipex is one brand name for a product containing the generic drug phentermine, which has been around for quite a few years. This is a product available by prescription. 
Phentermine weight loss pills are recommended as a short-term use, no more than 12 weeks. Thus, obese people want to know how many pounds they can lose during this period and what they should do for this. The goal of obesity treatment by means of Phentermine is to achieve and to maintain a normal body weight. It is clear that patients with I or II degree of obesity are easier to achieve a healthy body weight than patients with III or IV degree of obesity, even if they lose the same number of pounds.
Adipex-P® is the leading brand name of the generic drug Phentermine Hydrochloride, commonly referred to as Adipex. Adipex diet pills are manufactured by Gate Pharmaceuticals-now part of Teva Pharmaceuticals, the world leader in generic drugs-who have been marketing the diet pill since 1990. The dosage of Adipex is 37.5mg and it is available in tablet or capsule form.
When Not To Use. Do not use this medicine if you have had an allergic reaction to phentermine or similar medicines (such as adrenaline, amphetamine, dopamine, dobutamine, ephedrine, or lisdexamfetamine). Do not use this medicine if you are pregnant or breastfeeding. 
How to use Adipex-P. Take this medication by mouth as directed by your doctor, usually once a day, 1 hour before breakfast or 1 to 2 hours after breakfast. If needed, your doctor may adjust your dose to take a small dose up to 3 times a day. Remember that your doctor has prescribed this medication because he or she has judged that the benefit to you is greater than the risk of side effects. Many people using this medication do not have serious side effects. This medication may raise your blood pressure.