For example, determining gain or loss on a sale or disposal of an asset, you will need to substantiate the cost, so records and receipts related to that asset must be kept as long as asset is still in service and then add 3 years. 
1 Typically, the IRS can come after your business for failing to report income for up to 6 years after your filing if the amount is greater than 25% of your business’s gross income. 2  If you filed for a deduction for a bad debt or worthless security, the IRS suggests you keep your supporting tax records for 7 years. 1 If you filed for a deduction for a bad debt or worthless security, the IRS suggests you keep your supporting tax records for 7 years. 2  Under these circumstances, you may generally wish to retain your supportive records for at least 7 years. 3  Employment Tax Records.
Often swamped with paperwork, many entrepreneurs wonder how long you should keep business records. The answer depends a great deal upon whom you ask and what the record pertains to in your business. The IRS sets some basic record retention standards for tax records. 1 If you filed for a deduction for a bad debt or worthless security, the IRS suggests you keep your supporting tax records for 7 years. 2  Under these circumstances, you may generally wish to retain your supportive records for at least 7 years. 3  Employment Tax Records.
1 Excluding employment tax records, files relating to current employees should be retained while they are working for you and at least 7 years after a current or former employee has left or been terminated. 2  For any job applicants who were not eventually hired, keep these files for at least 3 years. 1 If you filed for a deduction for a bad debt or worthless security, the IRS suggests you keep your supporting tax records for 7 years. 2  Under these circumstances, you may generally wish to retain your supportive records for at least 7 years. 3  Employment Tax Records.
These documents have information that is to be recorded in accounting records. These documents should be kept because they reinforce the entries in an organization's books and the information and tax returns. Important documents have to be apparently marked and kept in a secure place. 
Records of Nontaxable Income-You may need to show that income which was NOT reported on your tax return came from nontaxable sources. Keep records for at least three years from the date the return was due or filed, or two years from the date the tax was paid, whichever is later. Click here for examples of nontaxable income. You must keep all employment (payroll) tax records for at least 4 years after the date the tax becomes due or is paid, whichever is later. Click here for a detailed payroll record retention schedule.
1 Health insurance records like explanations-of-benefits, receipts and invoices should be kept while treatments are in progress or until they are paid to your satisfaction. 2  If you deduct medical expenses on your tax return, keep the documentation with your tax records. 1 Shred old policies if you replace them or after you sell the item. 2 
4. Seven Year Rule for Record Retention(general rule). The rules on how long to keep financial records varies depending on what you are saving. For up to date tax filings, 7 years is a safe rule of thumb. Some people might say that is too long, but it is easier to follow this rule than to have to keep track how long you should keep different info. We suggest you keep tax returns for the life of your company. Scan them and save them both on and off site.
How long to keep records. You must normally keep records for at least 6 years from the end of the last company financial year they relate to. You may need to keep records longer if: 1  they show a transaction that covers more than one of the company’s accounting periods. 2  the company has bought something that it expects to last more than 6 years, like equipment or machinery. 3  you sent your Company Tax Return late
There is no time frame for the IRS to access tax and tax records must be kept indefinitely if you do NOT file a tax return, OR you file a fraudulent tax return. You must keep records for 7 years if you file a claim for a loss from worthless securities or bad debt deduction. You must keep all employment (payroll) tax records for at least 4 years after the date the tax becomes due or is paid, whichever is later. Click here for a detailed payroll record retention schedule.