In Depth: Deep muscles. The abdominal muscles provide postural support, protect internal organs, and perform other important functions. The lower abdominal muscles help protect the pelvic cavity. The rectus abdominis is the large muscle in the middle portion of the abdomen. It facilitates the tilt of the pelvis and the curvature of the lower spine. Next to it on both sides of the body is the internal oblique. The deep muscles of the abdominal and pelvic region protect internal organs and perform the many complex movements of the spine, thighs, and hips. Read More.
The four muscles that are involved in the compression of the  abdominal wall are the internal oblique, external oblique,  transversus abdominus, and the rectus abdominus. 
In Depth: Muscles. The rectus abdominis is the large muscle in the mid-section of the abdomen. It enables the tilt of the pelvis and the curvature of the lower spine. Next to it on both sides of the body is the internal oblique
The deepest of the flat muscles, with transversely running fibres. Like the other flat muscles, it contributes aponeurotic fibres to the linea alba. Deep to this muscle is a well formed layer of fascia, called the transversalis fascia. © 2015 TeachMeAnatomy.com [CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0]. Fig 1.1 – Lateral view of the abdominal wall. The largest and most superficial flat muscle in the abdominal wall. Its fibres run inferomedially. As the fibres approach the mid-line, they form an aponeurosis (a broad flat tendon). In the mid-line, the aponeuroses of all the flat muscles become entwined, forming
The transverse abdominal muscle (TVA), also known as the transverse abdominis, transversalis muscle and transversus abdominis muscle, is a muscle layer of the anterior and lateral (front and side) abdominal wall which is deep to (layered below) the internal oblique muscle. The transverse abdominal arises as fleshy fibers, from the lateral third of the inguinal ligament, from the anterior three-fourths of the inner lip of the iliac crest, from the inner surfaces of the cartilages of the lower six ribs, interdigitating with the diaphragm, and from the lumbodorsal fascia.
Muscles of the Abdomen, Lower Back and Pelvis. The muscles of the abdomen, lower back, and pelvis are separated from those of the chest by the muscular wall of the diaphragm, the critical breathing muscle. Lying exposed between the protective bones of the superiorly located ribs and the inferiorly located pelvic girdle, the muscles of this region play a critical role in protecting the delicate vital organs within the abdominal cavity.
Full Muscles of the Abdomen, Lower Back and Pelvis Description. Extending across the anterior surface of the body from the superior border of the pelvis to the inferior border of the ribcage are the muscles of the abdominal wall, including the transverse and rectus abdominis and the internal and external obliques. Lying exposed between the protective bones of the superiorly located ribs and the inferiorly located pelvic girdle, the muscles of this region play a critical role in protecting the delicate vital organs within the abdominal cavity.
The transverse abdominal, so called for the direction of its fibers, is the innermost of the flat muscles of the abdomen, being placed immediately beneath the internal oblique muscle. The transverse abdominal arises as fleshy fibers, from the lateral third of the inguinal ligament, from the anterior three-fourths of the inner lip of the iliac crest, from the inner surfaces of the cartilages of the lower six ribs, interdigitating with the diaphragm, and from the lumbodorsal fascia.
Deep muscles. The deep muscles of the abdominal and pelvic region protect internal organs and perform the many complex movements of the spine, thighs, and hips. Read More.
Transversus abdominis is the deepest of the abdominal muscles and wraps around the abdomen between the lower ribs and top of the pelvis, functioning like a corset. This picture shows the anatomy of this muscle with the outer two abdominal layers (internal and external oblique) removed. Lie on your back, or side, or sit with the spine in a neutral posture. Firmly palpate your abdomen 1-2 inches inside of your hip bones. Try the following cues to connect to (contract) your pelvic floor: 1  Females-Think of your vagina as a clock, pubis is 12, tailbone is 6, left lateral wall is 3, right lateral wall is 9.