None in the family has this name. Family name or Last name or Surname: Again, all three mean the same and it is the name common to all memebers of a family (in India it is usually the caste or clan or race). Middle name: It is an additional name placed before the surname and after the first name. Your last name or your surname or your family name is the name that all members of your family share. Let's say your name is Kumar Patel, and your father's name is Arun Patel and your Mom is Anjani Patel. PATEL is your last name. Your middle name is just as it sounds. Some people have a name in the middle.
Best Answer: Last name is father's family name. John David Smith: Smith is Father's name. Father was, say Charles Smith. In business relationships, he would be called Mr. Smith. His wife would call him Charles. First name is given name, what your Mother or sister may call you (NOT a nickname, tho). Report Abuse. Last name is your family name. First name is the one that you answer to. Nagaraj would be your FIRST name and Chellappan would be your LAST. A middle name is just a second first name. It is optional
A middle name is defined as the name between your first name and your family name. First name can also be referred to as Christian name. Your first name is the name or names that come before your family name if you do not have a middle name. The first name is your actual name. 
Your first name and your given name are the same. This would be what your friends and parents call you.In your case, I think your first name is Kumar. Your last name or your surname or your family name is the name that all members of your family share. Let's say your name is Kumar Patel, and your father's name is Arun Patel and your Mom is Anjani Patel. PATEL is your last name. Your middle name is just as it sounds. Some people have a name in the middle.
Names play a vital role in our lives. A name is composed of a first name, an optional middle name and a last name. First name is the name that is generally given by the parents. This name could mean anything or sometimes be meaningless. On the other hand, last name usually refers to the surname. The surname is placed at the last in the full name and therefore, it is also known as the last name. 
• Surname is the family name or the last name of a person, whereas first name is the unique name given to a person at birth, also referred to as his Christian name. • First name is the distinguishing feature of a person in his family, though his friends may lovingly refer to him with his surnames. Surname. A surname is the fixed name or last name or family name that is common in the names of all family members, and is shared by all. This is very old, and no one in the family really knows about the origin of this name.
The first name is the name that your parents have given you, last name and surname are basically the same and is your family name Like Malhotra, Gupta etc. In some parts of South India the name of the village you belong to is a part of the name also. majorcavalry · 7 years ago. first name is your name.last name and surname are same.like in sim sharma.sim is the name and sharma is the surname or last name.middle name is for those who have 3 words like sim kumari sharma.so kumari is the middle name.
For example, John is the son of Mr. Peter Smith. John is the name that is given to him, therefore ‘John’ is his first name. His father has ‘Peter’ as his first name. ‘Peter’ precedes ‘Smith’ and therefore, Smith represents the family name. As John, is the son of Mr. Smith, he shares his family name with his father and therefore his full name would be John Smith. The most important different between a surname and a first name is that a first name could be anything, whereas one shares his or her surname with other family members. Everyone has a first name and a surname. Both play a vital role in the identity of a person. Some people may get confuse between these both terms.
Basically Last name is the surname which is either taken from the surname of your father or home etc. There is no confusion in the first name. The middle name can be seen from example-Ram Prasad Srivastava. Here First Name is Ram, Middle name is Prasad and Last name is Srivastava. Author: Manila N 27 Aug 2014 Member Level: Gold Points: 2 Voting Score: 0First is the one which is given to you when you born. Last name/surname is either your family name or your father name. For example in Tamilnadu we do use father name as last name but in Andhrapradesh they use their family name as last name.For example consider the name Shiva Kumar Naidu, here Shiva is the first name people may prefer to call him with this.