Civil service employees, often called civil servants or public employees, work in a variety of fields such as teaching, sanitation, health care, management, and administration for the federal, state, or local government. Unlike workers in private employment, civil service employees may be prohibited from certain acts that would compromise their position as servants of the government and the general public.
Pendleton Act. (1883) Civil Service Reform; one of the major issues of the Gilded Age. 1883 Pendleton Civil Service Act introduces merit system. The Pendleton Civil Service Act, passed by Congress in 1882, created the Civil Service Commission to oversee competitive examinations for government positions. 
As the new president Aurthur pushed through the Pendleton Civil Service Reform Act. On January 16, 1883 Congress passed the Civil Service Act, which is sometimes referred to as the Pendleton Act after U.S. Senator George Hunt Pendleton. , Senator George H. Pendleton was one of the primary sponsors of the Act. To enforce the merit system and the judicial system, the law also created the United States Civil Service Commission. This board would be in charge of determining the rules and regulations of the act.
The law was only applied to federal government jobs and not to the state and local jobs that were the basis for political machines. At first the Pendleton Act only covered a very minimum quantity of jobs, only about 10% of the US government's civilian employees had civil service jobs. To enforce the merit system and the judicial system, the law also created the United States Civil Service Commission. This board would be in charge of determining the rules and regulations of the act.
CIVIL SERVICE ACT. Early advocates of a civil service believed that it was necessary to reform the spoils system, a process by which an individual who supported the election of a candidate was rewarded with a position in the government. The popular feeling against political patronage was running so strong that both Democrats and Republicans joined forces to enact the first Civil Service Act, known as the Pendleton Act (22 Stat. 403), in 1883.
The Act abolished the U.S. Civil Service Commission and distributed its functions primarily among three new agencies: the Office of Personnel Management (OPM), the Merit Systems Protection Board (MSPB), and the Federal Labor Relations Authority (FLRA). The Civil Service Reform Act was the first time that an American president has included civil service reform among his major legislative priorities. The act is intended to better execute the laws governing federal personnel management of the people and who operate within those laws.
(b) Civil Service means the positions in the public service of the Province to which appointments may be made by the Commission and such other positions as may be designated as positions in the Civil Service by the Governor in Council; 22 Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, where the qualifications of applicants for any position in the Civil Service are equal, preference shall be given to those who reside in Canada. R.S., c. 70, s. 22; 1995-96, c. 8, s. 18.
The Pendleton Civil Service Reform Act (ch. 27, 22 Stat. 403) of United States is a federal law established in 1883 that decided that government jobs should be awarded on the basis of merit instead of political affiliation. To enforce the merit system and the judicial system, the law also created the United States Civil Service Commission. This board would be in charge of determining the rules and regulations of the act.
By Robert McNamara. Definition: The Pendleton Act was a law passed by Congress, and signed by President Chester A. Arthur in January 1883, which reformed the federal government’s civil service system. A persistent problem, going back to the earliest days of the United States, had been the dispensing of federal jobs. The new law, essentially as drafted by Eaton, passed the Congress and was signed by President Chester Alan Arthur on January 16, 1883. Arthur appointed Eaton as the first chairman of the three-man Civil Service Commission, and he served in that post until he resigned in 1886.