A word is a word, but a word expressed upon the sincerity of the eyes will allow the words spoken to reach the minds of those they are spoken to. This is why eye contact is important. Eye contact is a non-verbal ability to communicate, and it often equals to our ability to verbally express a thought. 
In some cultures and religious groups eye contact between men and women is seen as flirtatious or threatening. Men of these communities who do not make eye contact with women are not usually rude or evasive, but respectful. Different cultures also vary in the amount that it is acceptable to watch other people. Some experts call these high-look and low-look cultures. British culture is a low-look culture. 
Nevertheless, they are so much more than that, which is why eye contact is such an important part of everyone's body language. Without saying a word our eyes, and the way we use them, can speak volumes. Without being able to know our thoughts, others perceive our hearing and understanding by watching our eyes. When communicating with others the process of eye contact is as important as the words we speak. 1  Why the eyes matter in communicating. 2  What the eyes say. 3  How eyes can lead to misunderstanding. 4  Conclusion. 5  Links.
Eye contact can be tied to so many life skills that it’s important for our youth to practice and learn about eye contact as a communication skill. Consider for a moment using eye contact to show empathy, concern for others, to manage feelings or to help with communication. According to Conversation Aid, there are a few points that can summarize the importance of eye contact: 1  Eye contact opens and closes communication. 2  Increased eye contact is associated with credibility and dominance. 3  Lack of contact and blinking are interpreted as submissive.
Practising good eye contact is a skill for effective and vital communication and is mostly under-rated and under-utilized. Keeping eye contact with the person you are talking to indicates interest and saying to the person “You are important and I am listening”. It is one of the “unseen” tools used in any event communication. 1 Either way, the eyes say it all. 2  Avoiding eye contact could also mean that you do not want the person you are speaking with to know too much. 3  It could be that you may not like the person. 4  You do not want the person to know you like them or you do not feel comfortable with that person.
So by avoiding your phone or other distractions in order to maintain eye contact, you send a message of appreciation and respect towards others, and in turn, they like and respect you more. Think about eye contact as the pipeline that nonverbal communication flows through. To Have a Deeper Look…. One of the things that ma kes eye contact so hard for some people is the fact that maintaining it can feel very revealing … it feels like someone is staring directly into your mind, and you are – into theirs.
Eyes and the body language. Eye contact is a form of body language which is important during communication. How we present ourselves and communicate with others aside from talking is by our body language. 1 Either way, the eyes say it all. 2  Avoiding eye contact could also mean that you do not want the person you are speaking with to know too much. 3  It could be that you may not like the person. 4  You do not want the person to know you like them or you do not feel comfortable with that person.
Eye contact occurs when two people look at each other's eyes at the same time.. In human beings, eye contact is a form of nonverbal communication and is thought to have a large influence on social behavior. Coined in the early to mid-1960s, the term came from the West to often define the act as a meaningful and important sign of confidence, respect, and social communication. Eye contact and facial expressions provide important social and emotional information. People, perhaps without consciously doing so, search other's eyes and faces for positive or negative mood signs. In some contexts, the meeting of eyes arouses strong emotions.
Homepage-Eye contact-Importance of Eye Contact. In this post I want to discuss the importance of eye contact in our non verbal communication. To Have a Deeper Look…. One of the things that ma kes eye contact so hard for some people is the fact that maintaining it can feel very revealing … it feels like someone is staring directly into your mind, and you are – into theirs.
Some points to remember while communicating and why eye contact is important are: 1  Surprise! 2  Your eyes are a way of building a connection with the other person. 3  Avoiding eye contact could also mean that you do not want the person you are speaking with to know too much. 4  A big part of eye contact is building trust. 1 Either way, the eyes say it all. 2  Avoiding eye contact could also mean that you do not want the person you are speaking with to know too much. 3  It could be that you may not like the person. 4  You do not want the person to know you like them or you do not feel comfortable with that person.