According to a Cisco survey, $9050 represents the average cost to prepare for CCIE certification as of April 2006, which gets spent mostly on practice equipment and study material. No formal prerequisites currently exist for the CCIE written exam, but Cisco recommends at least 3–5 years networking experience. Fewer than 3% of Cisco-certified individuals attain CCIE certification and, on average, spend thousands of dollars and 18 months studying before passing. Many candidates build training labs at home using old equipment, then sell it to other candidates after passing.
Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA) Routing and Switching is a certification program for entry-level network engineers that helps maximize your investment in foundational networking knowledge and increase the value of your employer's network. 
Previously this was simply known as the CCNA. Initial Requirements: You must pass the Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA) exam ($295) or pass both the Interconnecting Cisco Networking Devices Part 1 exam ($150) and the Interconnecting Cisco Networking Devices Part 2 exam ($150). Training is available but not required. 
The cost of the CCNA certification may actually differ according to the study materials you will use for the exam or even getting the training. Finally, CCNA is considered as one of the most excellent certification from Cisco. The cost of CCNA certification is $250. On the other hand, the overseas candidates can change the amount according to their country’s currency to determine the exact money that they will be spending to register for the exam.
The written exam will set you back $315 and the lab exam will cost you $1,400 (all values in US dollars). Unless you work for Cisco or have some type of certification discount with Vue or Cisco, then this is the bare minimum that you'll be able to get away with paying if you want a CCIE. Of course, these costs are per attempt, so each time you fail a lab or written exam, the cost rises. If you have to shell out $10,000 for a home lab, but are able to sell it back for $9,500 a few months later, then your net cost is only $500. For those who are interested in going this route, search eBay for CCIE lab or hit up some of the CCIE study lists/forums and look for bargains.
By Ed Tittel September 17, 2015 11:00 AM. Certainly the unparalleled networking certification today is the Cisco Certified Internetwork Expert (CCIE), which comes in a wide range of specialties. 
CCNA or Cisco Certified Networking Associate is a very helpful certificate for IT professionals to secure a high-paying employment in the networking field. The cost of CCNA certification is $250. On the other hand, the overseas candidates can change the amount according to their country’s currency to determine the exact money that they will be spending to register for the exam.
So if you want to start your Cisco certification journey so you can get certs on other Cisco technology areas, or to get deeper certs like CCNP and CCIE, then you need to get your CCNA. Cisco provides two paths to get your CCNA certification: a 2-exam path, and a 1-exam path, as shown in the figure. Cisco names each exam, and gives each exam a number as well. Each time Cisco makes a revision to the certification, Cisco re-numbers the exams. The next wrinkle to add here is that Cisco includes another certification that at first glance appears to be Cisco's entry-level cert: th e Cisco Certified Entry Network Technician (CCENT) . You get a CCENT cert for passing the ICND1 exam.
1 CCIE Lab and CCDE Practical exams are $1,600 USD per attempt at permanent Lab Locations. 2  Information on Mobile CCIE labs can be found here. 3  Travel and lodging expenses are the responsibility of the candidate and are not included in the exam price. 1 Information on Mobile CCIE labs can be found here. 2  Travel and lodging expenses are the responsibility of the candidate and are not included in the exam price. 3  Expert and Architect level Lab and Practical exam information links: CCIE Lab Exams, CCDE Practical Exams and CCAr.
CCNA or Cisco Certified Networking Associate is a very helpful certificate for IT professionals to secure a high-paying employment in the networking field. CCNA is a well-reputed and accepted certification from Cisco Systems. Usually, these professionals use Cisco compatible equipment in the maintenance and installation of the infrastructure they are working for on their companies. In order to acquire this certification, the candidate should able to pass the exam. The Cost of CCNA Certification. The cost of CCNA certification is $250.