Details. BBB Customer Review Rating plus BBB Rating is not a guarantee of a business' reliability or performance, and BBB recommends that consumers consider a business' BBB Rating and Customer Review Rating in addition to all other available information about the business. 
Cymax Stores, Inc. is a company that operates a number of websites selling furniture. CymaxStores.com is a division of Cymax Stores, Inc. that was founded in 2005. Noticed a charge of $546 on my Amex from Cymax-I have tried calling and there is no means to talk to anybody. I have never contacted the online or otherwise. Amex was aware they do this and they have cancelled to charge.
ResellerRatings Elite is not a guarantee or a warranty that you will receive excellent service, but companies that qualify for ResellerRatings Elite have the highest customer satisfaction ratings of any companies listed on our site. We always try to ensure stability of seals, and make sure massive input of negative or positive customer reviews from deals, fulfillment issues, etc, does not create a series of highs and lows.
If you would like to see more Rip-off Reports on this company/individual, search here: In order to assure the best results in your search: 1  Keep the name short & simple, and try different variations of the name. 2  Do not include .com, S, Inc., Corp, or LLC at the end of the Company name. 3  Use only the first/main part of a name to get best results. Hiding negative complaints is only a Band-Aid. Consumers want to see how businesses take care of business. All businesses will get complaints. How those businesses take care of those complaints is what separates good businesses from bad businesses.
Details. BBB Customer Review Rating plus BBB Rating is not a guarantee of a business' reliability or performance, and BBB recommends that consumers consider a business' BBB Rating and Customer Review Rating in addition to all other available information about the business. A BBB Accredited Business since. BBB has determined that Furniture.Com, Inc. meets BBB accreditation standards, which include a commitment to make a good faith effort to resolve any consumer complaints. BBB Accredited Businesses pay a fee for accreditation review/monitoring and for support of BBB services to the public.
I then called my bank and filed a claim. Buyers-this is a scam business. They will take your money and make up a web of lies about your order in order to scam you into thinking there is a problem with shipping or other things. Do your research: Google Cymax Stores. In order to assure the best results in your search: 1  Keep the name short & simple, and try different variations of the name. 2  Do not include .com, S, Inc., Corp, or LLC at the end of the Company name. 3  Use only the first/main part of a name to get best results.
This report was posted on Ripoff Report on 04/29/2008 07:23 AM and is a permanent record located here: http://www.ripoffreport.com/r/Cymax-Stores/nationwide/CYMAX-STORES-ARE-A-SCAM-DO-NOT-ORDER-FROM-THEM-Vancouver-Nationwide-Canada-329448. The posting time indicated is Arizona local time. Hiding negative complaints is only a Band-Aid. Consumers want to see how businesses take care of business. All businesses will get complaints. How those businesses take care of those complaints is what separates good businesses from bad businesses.