pig porphyria. an erythropoietic porphyria, similar to bovine congenital erythropoietic porphoryia, but inherited as a dominant trait. Discoloration of the teeth, bones and tissues occurs, but not of the urine, except in severely affected cases. Photosensitization is not a feature. The enzymatic defect is unknown. inherited as an autosomal dominant trait; affected cats have discolored teeth, urine and tissues, severe anemia and photosensitivity associated with a deficiency of uroporphyrinogen III cosynthetase. inherited porphyria. the disease is inherited in cattle and swine and is similar to erythropoietic porphyria of humans.
When someone is heterozygous for a trait, the difference between dominant and recessive traits becomes more important, because the dominant trait is the one which will manifest. In a simple example of the way in which dominant traits work, someone could have two parents who are heterozygous for brown and blue eyes. There is a 25% chance that the child will inherit the bb allele, making him or her blue-eyed.
A dominant trait is a genetic trait which will manifest when only one copy of the gene is present, overriding another inherited gene coding for a different version of the trait. By contrast, a recessive trait will only appear if an organism inherits a copy of the gene from both parents. In a simple example of the way in which dominant traits work, someone could have two parents who are heterozygous for brown and blue eyes. There is a 25% chance that the child will inherit the bb allele, making him or her blue-eyed.
Some types of porphyria are inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means one copy of the gene in each cell is mutated. This single mutation is sufficient to reduce the activity of an enzyme needed for heme production, which increases the risk of developing signs and symptoms of porphyria. In males (who have only one X chromosome), a mutation in the only copy of the gene in each cell causes the disorder. Males may experience more severe symptoms of the disorder than females. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons.
An autosomal dominant trait is one which manifests in the heterozygous state, i.e. in a person possessing both an abnormal or mutant allele and the normal allele. It is often possible to trace a dominantly inherited trait or disorder through many generations of a family (Fig. 7.2). New mutations In autosomal dominant disorders an affected person will usually have an affected parent. However, this is not always the case and it is not unusual for a trait to appear in an individual when there is no family history of the disorder.
tah Agriculture in the Classroom 1 utah.agclassroom.org Rock, Paper, Scissors—Dominant and Recessive Traits from Parent to Offspring Science/Heredity Background When an offspring is formed, its traits are determined by a combination of genes from each parent. Each parent contributes one-half of the genes for each trait. In the simplest cases, genes are either dominant or recessive. When a dominant gene combines with a recessive gene, the dominant gene’s charac-teristics are expressed in the offspring. 
Any child born to a person affected with a dominant trait or disorder has a 1 in 2 (50%) chance of inheriting it and being similarly affected. Genes come in pairs, with one copy inherited from each parent.Many genes come in a number of variant forms, known as alleles. A dominant allele prevails over a normal allele. New mutations In autosomal dominant disorders an affected person will usually have an affected parent. However, this is not always the case and it is not unusual for a trait to appear in an individual when there is no family history of the disorder.
The first allele is dominant and the second allele is recessive. For genes on an autosome (any chromosome other than a sex chromosome), the alleles and their associated traits are autosomal dominant or autosomal recessive. Dominance is a key concept in Mendelian inheritance and classical genetics. If AA and aa individuals (homozygotes) show different forms of some trait (phenotypes), and Aa individuals (heterozygotes) show the same phenotype as AA individuals, then allele A is said to dominate or be dominant to or show dominance to allele a, and a is said to be recessive to A.
People can also be heterozygous, with two different alleles for a particular gene. When someone is homozygous for a trait, that trait will manifest whether it is dominant or recessive, because there is no other genetic material to compete with it. In a simple example of the way in which dominant traits work, someone could have two parents who are heterozygous for brown and blue eyes. There is a 25% chance that the child will inherit the bb allele, making him or her blue-eyed.