The purpose of midrash was to resolve problems in the interpretation of difficult passages of the text of the Hebrew Bible, using Rabbinic principles of hermeneutics and philology to align them with the religious and ethical values of religious teachers. Gesenius ascribes the etymology of midrash to the Qal of the common Hebrew verb darash (דָּרַשׁ) to seek, study, inquire. The word midrash occurs twice in the Hebrew Bible: 2 Chronicles 13:22 in the midrash of the prophet Iddo , and 24:27 in the midrash of the Book of the King
The type of midrash most commonly referred to (as in, “There is a midrash which says…”) is from the collections of midrash aggadah, most of which were compiled between about 200 and 1000 C.E. (Many midrashim circulated orally before then). Midrash aggadah may begin its exploration with any word or verse in the Bible. 
Midrash is a form of rabbinic literature. There are two types of midrash: midrash aggada and midrash halakha. Midrash aggada can best be described as a form of storytelling that explores ethics and values in biblical texts. (Aggada literally means story or telling in Hebrew.) It can take any biblical word or verse and interpret it to answer a question or explain something in the text.
• MIDRASH (noun). The noun MIDRASH has 1 sense: 1. (Judaism) an ancient commentary on part of the Hebrew scriptures that is based on Jewish methods of interpretation and attached to the biblical text. Familiarity information: MIDRASH used as a noun is very rare. Dictionary entry details
Midrash (מדרש; plural midrashim) is a Hebrew word referring to the exposition, or exegesis, of a biblical text. The term can also refer to a specific compilation of midrashic teachings. Collections of midrashim (the plural form of midrash) often contain two or more rabbinical opinions on the same subject, sometimes diametrically opposed to one another. For example, a passage in the Jerusalem Talmud preserves a midrashic debate over the question of what is the most important verse in the Torah :
There are two basic categories of Midrashim. A collection of Midrashim on a single topic or book is also called a Midrash. Midrash Halakhah In Hebrew, halakhah refers to the law given in the Torah and the Mishnah. It includes the religious, ceremonial, and civil regulations. 