Announcing the new feature by using photos of Beyonce with various celebrities, Snapchat provided its own nifty explainer of what the cute symbols mean about users' social patterns. Here's a look at what some of the most common emoji mean for your Snapchat life. 
104 thoughts on “ The New Emojis for Snapchat Best Friends with April 6th, 2015 Update ”. Pingback: March 25th, 2015 Snapchat Update Does Not Include Best Friends | Wojdylo Social Media. Pingback: How to Find Snapchat Best Friends with January 2015 Update | Wojdylo Social Media. If you want to add me on Snapchat the username is jessewojdylo and here is the QR Code: Here is what the update on April 6th, 2015 stated in the iTunes App Store: I have also noticed that it is taking much longer for the Snapchat score to load for some of my friends.
😎 Face With Sunglasses — One of your best friends is one of their best friends. You send a lot of snaps to someone they also send a lot of snaps to. 😬 Grimacing Face — Your #1 best friend is their #1 best friend. You send the most snaps to the same person that they do. Awkward. 😏 Smirking Face — You are one of their best friends …but they are not a best friend of your
For those wanting to know what the new Snapchat emoji symbols mean, there is several different things that they repersent and these emojis have replaced the ‘Best Friends’ feature with Friend Emojis smilies. This new feature was updated to Snapchat today and you don’t need to update Snapchat to see these emoji symbols. Recommended: How to zoom in videos on Snapchat. Below are examples of what the Snapchat emojis mean: The fire symbol emoji on snapchat means that you’ve snapped back and forth for consecutive days.
So this has been our rundown on the Snapchat icons and what they mean. We hope this makes your Snapchat experience a bit less of a headache. If you have any questions, you can head over to the Snapchat support page, but you’ll probably have better luck by posting a comment to the article. Now, we’re going to let you know what the Snapchat icons mean. We’ve gone through the library of Snapchat icons and have researched their meanings, so we can tell you what each and every one of these Snapchat icons means. Each generation wants new new symbols, new people, new names.
Snapchat briefly discarded “Best Friends” in late January 2015. On April 6th, 2015 they replaced the old best friends with the new and improved Snapchat Emoji Best Friends. Snapchat users have been scrambling to figure out what the different icons and emojis mean. The new set of emojis include a gold heart, a grimace face or gritting teeth, a smiley face, a sunglasses emoji, a smirking face and a firey flame.
Here is your guide to what the Snapchat emoji mean. Instead of using a best friends list the Snapchat update replaces this list with new Snapchat emoji that show you who you talk with most in the app. There are six new Snapchat emoji that you’ll need to know the meaning of. Snapchat used photos of Beyonce beyoncé to illustrate what the emoji. 1  Means Gold – Heart You and the person you Are snapping with are best.  friends On Twitter the reactions to the Snapchat update and new Snapchat emoji are mixed. Some users don’t understand why the app needs the new emoji and others are just confused about what the Snapchat Emoji mean.
Snapchat is a popular social media tool that allows users to send pictures and videos to each other for a specified amount of time (1-10 seconds). While many were concerned that the app was primarily for sexting, the app is used to send funny pictures and videos between friends. 
Instead of the Snapchat Best Friends list you’ll see Snapchat emoji to identify those you Snapchat with the most and this new Snapchat update makes it a little easier to keep track of your friends with emoji. Here are the essential details you need to know about the Snapchat update on iPhone, iPad and Android. On Twitter the reactions to the Snapchat update and new Snapchat emoji are mixed. Some users don’t understand why the app needs the new emoji and others are just confused about what the Snapchat Emoji mean.
As I continue to get more information on all the icons and emojis on Snapchat I will be sure to pass it along. At this point it looks as if everyone is still scrambling to figure out what all of these new emojis mean. On the April 6th, 2015 Snapchat update the smirk face emoji beside a user means you’re their best friend but they’re not yours or you’re one of the people they send snaps to most, but they’re not one of the people you send snaps to most. Oh boy! This is sure to get fun with boyfriends and girlfriends.