Gardnerella infection in men. Bacterial vaginosis gardnerella is a sexually transmitted infection. This infection is often mistaken as a yeast infection in women. When one has this infection there can be a foul fishy smell and a yellowish or milky discharge from the vagina. Gardnerella infection may occur in women when there is an upset to the balance of the natural bacteria in the vagina. The use of broad spectrum antibiotics for another type of infection can also cause an upset in the natural balance of
Gardnerella Vaginalis is an infection of the female genital tract by bacteria of the Gardnerella vaginalis strain, often in combination with various anaerobic bacteria. Also called bacterial vaginosis. Gardnerella vaginalis is the most common cause of bacterial vaginitis in the sexually active mature patient. The patient complains of a malodorous, nonirritating discharge, and examinations reveal homogenous, gray-white secretions.
Gardnerella Definition. Gardnerella is a disease caused by bacterial infection of the female genital tract. It is also known by the name Gardnerella Vaginalis. The condition was first described in 1955 by Gardner and Dukes. It is the most common type of Bacterial Vaginitis in an adult, sexually active woman. 
Gardnerella vaginalis infection produces a grayish or yellowish discharge with a fishy vaginal odor, which intensity may increase after washing the area with alkaline soaps. Although gardnerella vaginalis is not an STD, it generally occurs in sexually active women, and does not affect men. Causes. Bacterial vaginosis occurs when the balance between the good bacteria that protects the vagina, and the harmful bacteria gets disrupted.
Gardnerella vaginalis is the specific type of bacteria strain that causes a vaginal infection on the female genital tract, called bacterial vaginosis or simply, BV. The bacteria is usually harmless, however when they start to multiply, they may cause some serious health symptoms. Although gardnerella vaginalis is not an STD, it generally occurs in sexually active women, and does not affect men. Causes. Bacterial vaginosis occurs when the balance between the good bacteria that protects the vagina, and the harmful bacteria gets disrupted.
[Gardnerella vaginalis infection--another sexually transmitted disease]. [Article in German]. Hartmann AA, Elsner P. The Gardnerella vaginalis infection of the urogenital tract, an STD, is of clinical importance in females and of epidemiological importance in males. Females suffer from vulvovaginitis amine colpitis, with a bad-smelling grey vaginal discharge with a pH of 5.0-5.5, which contains clue cells. 
Gardnerella is a genus of Gram-variable-staining facultative anaerobic bacteria of which G. vaginalis is the only species. The organisms are small (1-1.5 µm diameter) non-spore forming, non-motile coccobacilli. Once classified as Haemophilus vaginalis and afterwards as Corynebacterium vaginalis, Gardnerella vaginalis grows as small, circular, convex, gray colonies on chocolate agar; it also grows on HBT agar.
Gardnerella vaginalis is the predominant cause of bacterial vaginosis, whose symptoms may be asymptomatic, but can include vaginal discharge, vaginal irritation, and a fish like odor. In the amine whiff test 10% KOH is added to the discharge, a positive result is indicated if a fishy smell is produced. Once classified as Haemophilus vaginalis and afterwards as Corynebacterium vaginalis, Gardnerella vaginalis grows as small, circular, convex, gray colonies on chocolate agar; it also grows on HBT agar.
Causes and symptoms. Bacteria that dominate the vaginal flora in a BV infection include Gardnerella vaginalis or Mobiluncus, although other bacteria, such as Escherichia coli from the rectum have also been shown to cause the disease. Bacterial infection of the vagina. While bacterial vaginosis is classically caused by Gardnerella vaginalis (a gram-variable facultatively anaerobic rod), it is usually polymicrobial.