Making the world better, one answer at a time. The air flow in a cyclone spins in the same direction as the Earth. This is anti-clockwise to the Northern Hemisphere, and clockwise to the Southern Hemisphere. When the air is expelled, it flows from the air sacs back through the lungs on its way out of the body. So the flow of air is still tidal, as in humans, but the air does not stop and turn around in the lungs.
Anticyclone refers to a system rotating on the reverse direction so: anti-clockwise direction in the southern hemsiphere and clockwise in the northern hemisphere. Consisting with the term, is simply the flowing of the air. Air flow is usually described as a man controlled concept, not as much as a weather term (it can however), like the … flow of the air in the vehicle's AC, or inside the air duct of the building for example. 1 person found this useful.
Air sinks. c. Air flows laterally. d. Air does not move in a cyclone. The air at the center of a cyclone rises. A cyclone is a storm system characterized by a low pressure center and numerous thunderstorms that produce strong winds and flooding rain. A cyclone feeds on heat released when moist air rises, resulting in condensation of water vapor contained in the moist air.en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anticyclone. Question.
In a cyclone the central air pressure is lower than that of the surrounding environment, and the flow of circulation is clockwise in the Southern Hemisphere and counterclockwise in the Northern Hemisphere. Cyclones are also characterized by low-level convergence and ascending air within the system. In the science of meteorology, however, the term has a different meaning. For meteorologists, a cyclone and its counterpart, an anticyclone is a large-scale system of air circulation in the atmosphere in the zones between the equator and either of the poles.
An anticyclone (that is, opposite to a cyclone) is a weather phenomenon defined by the United States National Weather Service 's glossary as a large-scale circulation of winds around a central region of high atmospheric pressure, clockwise in the Northern Hemisphere, counterclockwise in the Southern Hemisphere. 
An anticyclone system has characteristics opposite to that of a cyclone. That is, an anticyclone's central air pressure is higher than that of its surroundings, and the airflow is counterclockwise in the Southern Hemisphere and clockwise in the Northern Hemisphere. Anticyclones are usually characterized by low-level divergence and subsiding air. Semipermanent Systems. In the science of meteorology, however, the term has a different meaning. For meteorologists, a cyclone and its counterpart, an anticyclone is a large-scale system of air circulation in the atmosphere in the zones between the equator and either of the poles.