rapid innate response by an effector (muscle or gland) to a stimulus detected by neural receptors and signalled by afferent nerves to neurons in the central nervous system whose efferent nerves activate the effector. reflex arc this neural pathway, including one or more synaptic connections. When the knee is tapped, the nerve that receives this stimulus sends an impulse to the spinal cord, where it is relayed to a motor nerve. This causes the quadriceps muscle at the front of the thigh to contract and jerk the leg up. This reflex, or simple reflex arc, involves only two nerves and one synapse.
1 reflex. noun re·flex \ˈrē-ˌfleks\. Tweet. : an action or movement of the body that happens automatically as a reaction to something. : something that you do without thinking as a reaction to something. reflexes: the natural ability to react quickly. Definition of REFLEX for Kids. 1. : an action or movement that is made automatically without thinking as a reaction to a stimulus. 2
A reflex action, differently known as a reflex, is an involuntary and nearly instantaneous movement in response to a stimulus. Scientific use of the term reflex refers to a behavior that is mediated via the reflex arc; this does not apply to casual uses of the term reflex.
adjective. noun. The definition of reflex is something done automatically without thinking about it, or something reflected back. Hiccuping is an example of something that would be described as a reflex action. Reflex is defined as something that you do or think automatically, or a reflection. When something is flying at your head and you instinctively close your eyes without thinking about it, this is an example of a reflex.
: an action or movement of the body that happens automatically as a reaction to something. : something that you do without thinking as a reaction to something. Definition of REFLEX for Kids. 1. : an action or movement that is made automatically without thinking as a reaction to a stimulus. 2
re·flex. adj. 1. Physiology Being an involuntary action or response, such as a sneeze, blink, or hiccup. 2. Produced as an automatic response or reaction: reflex opposition to change. Noun. 1. reflex-an automatic instinctive unlearned reaction to a stimulus. inborn reflex, innate reflex, instinctive reflex, physiological reaction, reflex action, reflex response, unconditioned reflex. accommodation reflex-reflex changes in the eyes that enable an object to be focused on the retina.
a reflected action or movement; the sum total of any particular automatic response mediated by the nervous system. A reflex is built into the nervous system and does not need the intervention of conscious thought to take effect. When the knee is tapped, the nerve that receives this stimulus sends an impulse to the spinal cord, where it is relayed to a motor nerve. This causes the quadriceps muscle at the front of the thigh to contract and jerk the leg up. This reflex, or simple reflex arc, involves only two nerves and one synapse.
A reflex arc is a neural pathway that controls a reflex action. In higher animals, most sensory neurons do not pass directly into the brain, but synapse in the spinal cord. When a reflex arc consists of only two neurons in an animal (one sensory neuron, and one motor neuron), it is defined as monosynaptic. Monosynaptic refers to the presence of a single chemical synapse.
A conditioned reflex is one acquired as the result of experience. When an action is done repeatedly the nervous system becomes familiar with the situation and learns to react automatically, and a new reflex is built into the system. When the knee is tapped, the nerve that receives this stimulus sends an impulse to the spinal cord, where it is relayed to a motor nerve. This causes the quadriceps muscle at the front of the thigh to contract and jerk the leg up. This reflex, or simple reflex arc, involves only two nerves and one synapse.