In an assault, the defendant's conduct generally does not include physical contact or physical injury caused to the victim. In accordance with Illinois assault and battery laws, the state may elevate a charge of battery to aggravated battery, a more serious crime, under circumstances described by law. For example, any conduct causing severe bodily injury, disfigurement, or a permanent disability likely qualifies as an aggravated battery. Assault is a Class C misdemeanor under Illinois assault and battery law, which can result in jail time for up to 30 days, a fine in an amount up to $1,500, or both. Alternatively, the court may sentence the defendant to perform between 30 and 120 hours of community service.
Illinois Assault – Laws & Penalties. In the overwhelming majority of cases, assault is considered a Class C misdemeanor. This means that you could spend up to 30 days in jail for a conviction and be ordered to pay up to $1,500 in fines. You may be facing this charge if there is evidence that you engaged in conduct which placed someone in fear of harm. Illinois assault laws are simple on paper, but nothing is straightforward when it is you who are facing serious criminal charges. You may not believe you truly injured someone without justification, or put them in fear of harm, but that is what you are accused of
Aggravated assault is often a Class A misdemeanor, meaning the maximum penalty is up to a year in the county jail and a fine of up to $2,500.00. In certain cases, Aggravated Assault may be a Class 4 Felony, with a penalty of up to 3 years in an Illinois state prison. Anyone who is facing assault charges is wise to seek an attorney at once.
In Illinois, Simple Assault is a Class C misdemeanor, with up to 30 days in jail and a fine of up to $500.00 for those who are convicted. Aggravated Assault is a more serious crime in Illinois. A person commits Assault in Illinois when they do any of the following while committing Assault: In certain cases, Aggravated Assault may be a Class 4 Felony, with a penalty of up to 3 years in an Illinois state prison. Anyone who is facing assault charges is wise to seek an attorney at once.
Assault is often associated with charges of battery. Battery is the actual injury or physical contact, whereas an assault charge can result from the mere threat of harm. For more details, see our Illinois battery offense page. —. Please contact us for a free case evaluation for any assault, aggravated assault, battery, or other criminal charge in Illinois. Assault Penalties in Illinois. A charge of assault is a Class C Misdemeanor Offense, which carries penalties of up to 30 days in jail and/or a $1500 fine. In addition, according to Illinois assault laws, you will also be sentenced to 30-120 hours of community service if you are convicted of the offense. A charge of aggravated assault can be a Class A Misdemeanor, or a Class 4 Felony, depending on the situation
Stat. § 5/12-3.). This article discusses aggravated assault and battery laws in Illinois. For more information on assault involving a firearm, knife, or other deadly weapon, see Assault & Battery With a Deadly Weapon in Illinois. For a discussion of misdemeanor assault and battery, see Assault and Battery Laws in Illinois. 
This article discusses assault with a deadly weapon in Illinois. For a discussion of misdemeanor assault and battery, see Assault and Battery Laws in Illinois. For more information on aggravated assault and battery, see Illinois Aggravated Assault & Battery Laws. 