1 The most basic package of ADP payroll will be around $10 per employee, per month, while an advanced payroll plan could cost upwards of $23 per employee, per month. 2  According to toptenreviews.com, they claim that it can cost $159 per month for a business that has five employees. 1 ADP is able to pay employees by check, direct deposit, or card. 2  If the employee is paid by card, they will do the check printing for you. 3  ADP can pay hourly, salary, and contract employees. 4  Employees are able to view their paystubs, paid time off and more through the online ADP portal.
1 A company with around 25-35 employees that uses ADP or Paychex to handle all of its payroll services (basic as well as advanced) might pay anywhere from around $250 to $1,500 a month. 2  It may be possible to have an accountant perform payroll services. 1 A small business with around ten employees might pay an accountant approximately $250 per month to perform payroll. 2  Subscription online payroll services via companies such as VersaCheck and Intuit that work with computer software cost around $75-$250 per year.
1 According to toptenreviews.com, they claim that it can cost $159 per month for a business that has five employees. 2  On PCWorld.com, he calculated that it would cost about $61 per month for 15 employees for a subscription that uses tax forms. 3  On the other hand, it would cost $106 per month with time tracking. 1 ADP is able to pay employees by check, direct deposit, or card. 2  If the employee is paid by card, they will do the check printing for you. 3  ADP can pay hourly, salary, and contract employees. 4  Employees are able to view their paystubs, paid time off and more through the online ADP portal.
The average ADP salary ranges from approximately $30,000 per year for Customer Service Representative to $70,000 per year for District Manager. Salary information comes from 28 data points collected directly from employees, users, and jobs on Indeed. 
Payroll Services Sample Costs. 1  According to Entrepreneur.com, basic payroll processing services cost between $0.80 and $2.00 per check in addition to a base account fee, while advanced services such as direct deposit and tax filing could cost between $4 and $9 per payroll period. 1 A small business with around ten employees might pay an accountant approximately $250 per month to perform payroll. 2  Subscription online payroll services via companies such as VersaCheck and Intuit that work with computer software cost around $75-$250 per year.
1 If the employee is paid by card, they will do the check printing for you. 2  ADP can pay hourly, salary, and contract employees. 3  Employees are able to view their paystubs, paid time off and more through the online ADP portal. 4  Aside from payroll processing, the company offers tax services, including W-2 and 1099 processing. 1 ADP is able to pay employees by check, direct deposit, or card. 2  If the employee is paid by card, they will do the check printing for you. 3  ADP can pay hourly, salary, and contract employees. 4  Employees are able to view their paystubs, paid time off and more through the online ADP portal.
In the end we were paying up to $1400/mo for our services. We changed over to ADP, and they were MUCH less expensive, around $250/month-but terrible customer service, training, sales & much less options that Paychex. No matter who you choose, this is payroll & taxes and you HAVE to keep double check it.
To better compare its pricing with that of ADP’s RUN, I calculated the estimated cost for Intuit Online Payroll for 15 employees. It added up to about $61 per month for the subscription that includes the tax forms, or about $106 per month with employee time-tracking. Intuit Online Payroll starts as a 30-day free trial period, which begins when you run the first pay period.
1 A basic payroll service averages $0.80-$2.00 per check, plus a base account fee which varies depending on the frequency of payroll periods, while options such as tax filing and direct deposit can add $4-$9 per payroll period, according to Entrepreneur.com. We changed over to ADP, and they were MUCH less expensive, around $250/month-but terrible customer service, training, sales & much less options that Paychex. No matter who you choose, this is payroll & taxes and you HAVE to keep double check it.