There has not as yet been any clarification as to whether the FAA’s position will be applied retroactively. Owner trusts are commonly used by non-U.S. citizens to register aircraft with the FAA. Basically, a non-U.S. company enters into a trust agreement with a financial institution that is a U.S. citizen. The trustee (referred to as an “owner trustee”) then acquires and registers the aircraft in its name as owner trustee.
The beneficiary owns the beneficial interest in the trust and the trustee owns the aircraft on behalf of the beneficiary. The trustee is the titled and registered owner of the aircraft, but the beneficiary has the right to dissolve the trust at any time for any reason. An aircraft trust is basically a relationship where a trustee owns an aircraft on behalf of an entity or individual. The trust is established as an extension of the true owner, also called the trustor or trust beneficiary. The trustee acts for the beneficiary and the aircraft is titled and registered in the name of the trustee. This relationship is often called an owner trust because the benefit of the trust and all assets go to the true owner of the trust
The trustee acts for the beneficiary and the aircraft is titled and registered in the name of the trustee. This relationship is often called an owner trust because the benefit of the trust and all assets go to the true owner of the trust. It is important to note that this structure has been approved by the FAA and, because of the documents which are filed, the FAA is well aware of the identity of the beneficiary. The beneficiary owns the beneficial interest in the trust and the trustee owns the aircraft on behalf of the beneficiary. The trustee is the titled and registered owner of the aircraft, but the beneficiary has the right to dissolve the trust at any time for any reason.
In the case of an Owner Trust the aircraft is typically held solely for one beneficiary which is the settlor. The reason that a Trust is required by the FAA is that in this way they can ultimately control the aircraft through their US Citizens who are the registered trustees of US registered aircraft. In fact the US Trustee has all the rights and powers of an owner and can sell or mortgage the aircraft subject always to the terms of the Trust agreement between the Settlor and Trustee. It is a requirement of the Federal Aviation Regulations that the power of the trustee cannot be fettered by the beneficiary.
The importance and legitimacy of the owner trust structure to the US aircraft finance and manufacturing market is well recognized. The use of Non-Citizen Trusts is a longstanding, legitimate option for registration of aircraft with the FAA. 
You can register an aircraft to a single applicant as trustee, or to several applicants as co-trustees. The trustee(s) must submit: 1  An affidavit showing that each beneficiary under the trust is either a U.S. Citizen or a resident alien. 2  This includes each person whose security interest in the aircraft is incorporated in the trust.
TVPX's 1031 Exchange practice is focused on the Corporate Aviation, Commercial Real Estate, and the Oil & Gas Industry. TVPX ARS Inc. offers FAA aircraft registration and owner trust services that comply with the complex citizenship rules for US registered aircraft. TVPX ARS Inc. is prepared to respond quickly and accurately with documents that meet all of the current FAA rules and requirements. 
What is an aircraft trust? An aircraft trust is basically a relationship where a trustee owns an aircraft on behalf of an entity or individual. The trust is established as an extension of the true owner, also called the trustor or trust beneficiary. The beneficiary owns the beneficial interest in the trust and the trustee owns the aircraft on behalf of the beneficiary. The trustee is the titled and registered owner of the aircraft, but the beneficiary has the right to dissolve the trust at any time for any reason.