Layers of the atmosphere. The atmosphere is comprised of layers based on temperature. These layers are the troposphere, stratosphere, mesosphere and thermosphere. A further region at about 500 km above the Earth's surface is called the exosphere. These layers are the troposphere, the stratosphere, the mesosphere and the thermosphere. A further region, beginning about 500 km above the earth's surface, is called the exosphere. The red line on the figure below shows how temperature varies with height (the temperature scale is given along the bottom of the diagram).
There are multiple layers of the Earth. The Earth layers are: the crust, the mantle, the outer core, and the inner core. Some of the layers are considered to parts of the lithosphere and others are part of the asthenosphere. Each layer has its own properties, make-up, and characteristics
We all are livivng in Biosphere but Human live on the lithosphere. The layer of the Earth called the crust. It is the top most layer of the Earth, which is made up of 4 layers. The inner core, outer core, mantel and, finally the crust. Humans live in the biosphere, anywhere on Earth that there is life. Life is found in various ecosystems. Of course, the organisms in these ecosystems interact with the atmosphere, the hydrosphere and the lithosphere. Every part of the planet that supports life of some type is in the biosphere.
(Answer #1). The earth is divided to three layers, the core, the mantle and the crust. humans live on the crust of the earth. trophyhunter1 | College Teacher | (Level 3) Senior Educator. Posted on. (Answer #2). Humans live in the biosphere, anywhere on Earth that there is life. Life is found in various ecosystems. Of course, the organisms in these ecosystems interact with the atmosphere, the hydrosphere and the lithosphere. Every part of the planet that supports life of some type is in the biosphere.
Space. The atmosphere has 4 layers: the troposphere that we live in near the surface of the earth; the stratosphere that houses the ozone layer; the mesosphere, a colder and lower density layer with about 0.1% of the atmosphere; and the thermosphere, the top layer, where the air is hot but very thin. The troposphere is the lowest layer of the atmosphere. This is the layer where we live and where weather happens. Temperature in this layer generally decreases with height. The boundary between the stratosphere and the troposphere is called the tropopause.
From the Earth s surface through the bottom layer of atmosphere, called the troposphere, temperature decreases with altitude. Weather occurs in this layer. It s also the layer we live in. The next layer up is called the stratosphere. 
Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answer by Oberthscoolboy. Confidence votes 198. Humans live on the layer of the Earth called the crust. It is the top most layer of the Earth, which is made up of 4 layers. The inner core, outer core, mantel and, finally the crust. 
The Troposphere. This is the lowest part of the atmosphere-the part we live in. It contains most of our weather-clouds, rain, snow. In this part of the atmosphere the temperature gets colder as the distance above the earth increases, by about 6.5°C per kilometre. These layers are the troposphere, the stratosphere, the mesosphere and the thermosphere. A further region, beginning about 500 km above the earth's surface, is called the exosphere. The red line on the figure below shows how temperature varies with height (the temperature scale is given along the bottom of the diagram).
Best Answer: Answer:- Troposphere The atmosphere is divided into five layers. It is thickest near the surface and thins out with height until it eventually merges with space. 1) The troposphere is the first layer above the surface and contains half of the Earth's atmosphere. Weather occurs in this layer. 2) Many jet aircrafts fly in the stratosphere because it is very stable. Also, the ozone layer absorbs harmful rays from the Sun.