Cooking thermometers take the guesswork out of cooking, as they measure the internal temperatures of your cooked meat, poultry, seafood, baked goods, and/or casseroles, to assure that a safe temperature has been reached, harmful bacteria have been destroyed, and your food is cooked perfectly. It measures the internal temperature of your cooked meat, poultry, seafood, breads, baked goods, and/or casseroles to assure that a safe temperature has been reached and that harmful bacteria (like certain strains of Salmonella and E. Coli O 157:H7) has been destroyed.
Call the USDA Meat & Poultry Hotline If you have a question about meat, poultry, or egg products, call the USDA Meat and Poultry Hotline toll free at 1-888-MPHotline (1-888-674-6854) .The Hotline is open year-round Monday through Friday from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. ET (English or Spanish). • Cook —Cook to the right temperature. • Chill —Refrigerate food promptly.Cook all food to these minimum internal temperatures as measured with a food thermometer before removing food from the heat source. For reasons of personal preference, consumers may choose to cook food to higher temperatures.
Safe Minimum Internal Temperature Chart. Safe steps in food handling, cooking, and storage are essential in preventing foodborne illness. You can't see, smell, or taste harmful bacteria that may cause illness. In every step of food preparation, follow the four guidelines to keep food safe: 1  Clean —Wash hands and surfaces often. 2  Separate —Separate raw meat from other foods. 3  Cook —Cook to the right temperature
The interior of a raw hamburger usually does contain bacteria, and is safest if cooked well done.. Because E. coli is killed at 155 degrees Fahrenheit, the USDA sets the minimum safe temperature for ground beef at 160 degrees Fahrenheit. We can only second this. In other words, with whole cuts of meat it is the external temp, not the internal temp, that must exceed 160 degrees Fahrenheit. Normal cooking methods — sauteing, grilling, roasting, braising, etc. — raise surface temperatures far above
1 Cooking Whole Cuts of Pork: USDA has lowered the recommended safe cooking temperature for whole cuts of pork from 160 ºF to 145 ºF with the addition of a three-minute rest time. Here’s what you need to know: 1 
Pork chops are just plain juicier and more tender at the new safe temp of 145°F (they will probably rise to about 150°F during the 3 minute rest). At that temp pork will be very pale pink. You can make chops even better with about 30 to 60 minutes in a 5% brine. That's 1 cup of table salt to 1 gallon of water. 
Cook pork, roasts, and chops to 145 ºF as measured with a food thermometer, then allow the meat to rest for three minutes before carving or consuming. Cross posted from the FoodSafety.gov blog: On May 24, USDA made some important changes in their recommended cooking temperatures for meats. Here’s what you need to know: 1  Cooking Whole Cuts of Pork: USDA has lowered the recommended safe cooking temperature for whole cuts of pork from 160 ºF to 145 ºF with the addition of a three-minute rest time.
Note: The following table shows Food Network Kitchen's preferred internal temperatures for meat and poultry based on taste and texture. Out of a concern for safety, the USDA recommends higher temperatures for whole cuts of beef and lamb than we do. In other words, with whole cuts of meat it is the external temp, not the internal temp, that must exceed 160 degrees Fahrenheit. Normal cooking methods — sauteing, grilling, roasting, braising, etc. — raise surface temperatures far above
Internal Temperature Cooking Chart Beef-Pork-Poultry-Fish and Seafood-Baked Goods copyright 2004 by Linda Stradley-United States Copyright TX 5-900-517- All rights reserved. This web site may not be reproduced in whole or in part without permission and appropriate credit given. It measures the internal temperature of your cooked meat, poultry, seafood, breads, baked goods, and/or casseroles to assure that a safe temperature has been reached and that harmful bacteria (like certain strains of Salmonella and E. Coli O 157:H7) has been destroyed.
1 Ground Meats: This change does not apply to ground meats, including beef, veal, lamb, and pork, which should be cooked to 160 ºF and do not require a rest time. 2  Poultry: The safe cooking temperature for all poultry products, including ground chicken and turkey, stays the same at 165 ºF. Here’s what you need to know: 1  Cooking Whole Cuts of Pork: USDA has lowered the recommended safe cooking temperature for whole cuts of pork from 160 ºF to 145 ºF with the addition of a three-minute