Many are turning to network forensic tools. Wikipedia defines network forensics as follows: Network forensics is a sub-branch of digital forensics relating to the monitoring and analysis of computer network traffic for the purposes of information gathering, legal evidence, or intrusion detection. Of course network forensics is nothing new. Think about how you could add network forensics information into security and legal investigations as well. Network forensics are likely a good fit. There is also reason to believe that this is a market that is about to explode.
Network forensics, or your 'network time machine,' helps you pinpoint the source of intermittent performance issues and conduct investigations to identify the source of data leaks, HR violations, or security breaches. With WildPackets Network Forensics solutions, data is always available for reconstruction and easy analysis of intermittent issues, cyber attacks, and network security or data breaches. All pertinent network traffic is collected in a single location, rather than scattered across the network
Further information might be found on the discussion page. Network forensics is the process of capturing information that moves over a network and trying to make sense of it in some kind of forensics capacity. A network forensics appliance is a device that automates this process. 
LiveAction. Network forensics is the capture, recording, and analysis of network events in order to discover the source of security attacks or other problem incidents. 1 O'Reilly Network provides an article by Simson Garfinkel, Network Forensics: Tapping the Internet.. 2  Information Security Magazine provides a survey of products in its article, Analyze This!. 3  SearchSecurity.com provides links to articles on Infrastructure and Network Security..
Analysis of Wireless Network Traffic. What is network forensics. “Network forensics is a sub-branch of digital forensics relating to the monitoring and analysis of computer network traffic for the purposes of information gathering, legal evidence, or intrusion detection.”1. Data is changing constantly. 
Network forensics, or IT Forensics, is a form of computer forensics that involves extracting forensic evidence from computer networks, particularly for use as criminal evidence. 
Wireless forensics is a sub-discipline of network forensics. The main goal of wireless forensics is to provide the methodology and tools required to collect and analyze (wireless) network traffic that can be presented as valid digital evidence in a court of law. Network forensics can be performed as a standalone investigation or alongside a computer forensics analysis (where it is often used to reveal links between digital devices or reconstruct how a crime was committed).
Network forensics is a sub-branch of digital forensics relating to the monitoring and analysis of computer network traffic for the purposes of information gathering, legal evidence, or intrusion detection. Unlike other areas of digital forensics, network investigations deal with volatile and dynamic information. Network traffic is transmitted and then lost, so network forensics is often a pro-active investigation. Network forensics generally has two uses. Network forensics can be performed as a standalone investigation or alongside a computer forensics analysis (where it is often used to reveal links between digital devices or reconstruct how a crime was committed).
Learn about collecting forensic network evidence and why it is important for investigating and prosecuting network breaches and data theft. Network forensics is the monitoring and analysis of network data activity, commonly used for information gathering, legal evidence and intrusion detection. 