Scott Thompson named Dollar Thrifty CEO. Share. 1. -- -- -- --. --. --. --. --. --. Dollar Thrifty Automotive Group, parent of the Dollar Rent A Car and Thrifty Car Rental brands, named Scott Thompson as president and CEO. Thompson, at left, succeeds Gary Paxton, who will retire from the company Dec. 31; Paxton will provide consulting services to the company through Oct. 31, 2009, Dollar Thrifty said.
In 1987, the company completed an initial public offering of common stock and was acquired two years later, in 1989, along with Dollar Rent A Car, by Chrysler Corporation. In late 1997, Chrysler divested Thrifty and Dollar in an initial public offering as part of the Dollar Thrifty Automotive Group, Inc.
Hertz Holdings, through its subsidiary The Hertz Corporation (“Hertz”) operates its car rental business through the Hertz, Dollar and Thrifty brands from approximately 10,460 corporate, licensee and franchisee locations in North America, Europe, Latin America, Asia, Australia, Africa, the Middle East and New Zealand.
Hertz Holdings, through its subsidiary The Hertz Corporation (“Hertz”) operates its car rental business through the Hertz, Dollar and Thrifty brands from approximately 10,460 corporate, licensee and franchisee locations in North America, Europe, Latin America, Asia, Australia, Africa, the Middle East and New Zealand.
Find a vehicle. Thrifty Car Rental is pleased to announce the appointment John Hoffman to the role of Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Thrifty in Australia and New Zealand effective 18 October 2013.
Jay Betz, executive vice president of fleet and technology for Thrifty Rent-A-Car System, was appointed President of the companyÉs companyés newly formed, Franchiser Thrifty Car. sales
John joins Thrifty Australia and New Zealand from Dollar Thrifty Automotive Group in the US, where he was Southeast Area Director and successfully managed a workforce of over 500 employees, a fleet of 12,000 vehicles, and generated revenue of US$160 million per annum.
Thrifty Car Rental is one of the largest car rental companies in the world and is a wholly owned subsidiary of Dollar Thrifty Automotive Group, Inc.