Perception can be defined as our recognition and interpretation of sensory information. Perception also includes how we respond to the information. We can think of perception as a process where we take in sensory information from our environment and use that information in order to interact with our environment. Perception allows us to take the sensory information in and make it into something meaningful. For example, let's look at our perception of words. Yolanda has taught college information technology and literacy, and has a master's in counseling psychology and business administration. Perception is the process of recognizing and interpreting sensory stimuli. Learn the definition of perception, how it is related to the five senses, how it differs from reality, and more
disturbed sensory perception a nursing diagnosis accepted by the North American Nursing Diagnosis Association, defined as a change in the amount of patterning of incoming stimuli, accompanied by a diminished, exaggerated, distorted, or impaired response to such stimuli. In psychology, perception also applies to evaluations of one's own and others' internal states and beliefs as well as sensory stimuli and a person's perceptions are not necessarily identical to the stimulus object or event being perceived.
Visual Perception Theory. by Saul McLeod published 2007. In order to receive information from the environment we are equipped with sense organs e.g. eye, ear, nose. Each sense organ is part of a sensory system which receives sensory inputs and transmits sensory information to the brain. Our perceptions of the world are hypotheses based on past experiences and stored information. Sensory receptors receive information from the environment, which is then combined with previously stored information about the world which we have built up as a result of experience.
Perception. As mentioned in the introduction, perception refers to interpretation of what we take in through our senses. The way we perceive our environment is what makes us different from other animals and different from each other. 
Gestalt psychology. noun. : the study of perception and behavior from the standpoint of an individual's response to gestalten with stress on the uniformity of psychological and physiological events and rejection of analysis into discrete events of stimulus, percept, and response. : the study of perception and behavior from the standpoint of an individual's response to configurational wholes with stress on the uniformity of psychological and physiological events and rejection of analysis into discrete events of stimulus, percept, and response. ADVERTISEMENT.
Perception (from the Latin perceptio, percipio) is the organization, identification, and interpretation of sensory information in order to represent and understand the environment. All perception involves signals in the nervous system, which in turn result from physical or chemical stimulation of the sense organs. Perception is not the passive receipt of these signals, but is shaped by learning, memory, expectation, and attention. Perception can be split into two processes Firstly processing sensory input which transforms these low-level information to higher-level information (e.g., extracts shapes for object recognition).
Definition of GESTALT PSYCHOLOGY. : the study of perception and behavior from the standpoint of an individual's response to configurational wholes with stress on the uniformity of psychological and physiological events and rejection of analysis into discrete events of stimulus, percept, and response. ADVERTISEMENT.
Perceptual psychology is a subfield of cognitive psychology that is concerned specifically with the pre-conscious innate aspects of the human cognitive system: perception. Perceptual psychology is a branch of cognitive psychology dealing with mental processes that we use in everyday living. Any time you problem-solve, make a decision or make a memory you are using an example of perceptual psychology.
Medical Definition of GESTALT PSYCHOLOGY. : the study of perception and behavior from the standpoint of an individual's response to gestalten with stress on the uniformity of psychological and physiological events and rejection of analysis into discrete events of stimulus, percept, and response. — Gestalt psychologist noun. : the study of perception and behavior from the standpoint of an individual's response to configurational wholes with stress on the uniformity of psychological and physiological events and rejection of analysis into discrete events of stimulus, percept, and response. ADVERTISEMENT.