scurvy. a condition due to deficiency of ascorbic acid (vitamin C). Symptoms of infantile scurvy include poor appetite, digestive disturbances, failure to gain weight, increasing irritability, and bruises scattered over the skin. Severe deficiency may cause changes in bone structure. Causes and symptoms. A lack of vitamin C in the diet is the primary cause of scurvy. This can occur in people on very restricted diets, who are under extreme physiological stress (for example, during an infection or after an injury), and in chronic alcoholics.
Scurvy is also referred to as Vitamin C deficiency, Barlow’s disease, and deficiency of ascorbic acid. Scurvy is a disease that results from a lack of Vitamin C. Vitamin C is essential for us to have healthy bones and teeth. It also plays an important role in the healing process. Scurvy is divided into two forms: adult and infantile
Scurvy is a disease resulting from a deficiency of vitamin C. Scurvy often presents initially with fatigue, followed by formation of spots on the skin, spongy gums, and bleeding from the mucous membranes. Scurvy can be prevented by a diet that includes certain citrus fruits such as oranges or lemons. Other sources rich in vitamin C are fruits such as blackcurrants, guava, kiwifruit, papaya, tomatoes, bell peppers, and strawberries.
Scurvy is a disease that affects the blood vessels, skin, and the body’s healing process, resulting in anemia, hemorrhaging of the skin, and gum disease (gingivitis). 
Scurvy is caused by a lack of vitamin C in your diet. If your body doesn't have enough vitamin C, it can't produce new collagen (a protein found in many different types of body tissue, including the skin and bones). Without a new supply of collagen, the body's tissue will begin to break down and deteriorate. Lack of vitamin C. Although scurvy is rare in the UK, research has shown that a significant number of people may have a lack of vitamin C. However, it's possible to get a good supply of vitamin C by eating plenty of fruit and vegetables.
While today scurvy is known to be caused by a nutritional deficiency, until the isolation of vitamin C and direct evidence of its link to scurvy in 1932, numerous theories and treatments were proposed, often on little or no experimental data. Scurvy can be prevented by a diet that includes certain citrus fruits such as oranges or lemons. Other sources rich in vitamin C are fruits such as blackcurrants, guava, kiwifruit, papaya, tomatoes, bell peppers, and strawberries.
Knowledge center. Scurvy is a disease caused by a diet that lacks vitamin C (ascorbic acid) . Patients develop anemia, debility, exhaustion, edema (swelling) in some parts of the body, and sometimes ulceration of the gums and loss of teeth. The name scurvy comes from the Latin scorbutus. Scurvy can be prevented by consuming enough vitamin C, either in the diet or as a supplement. Foods that contain vitamin C include: Oranges, lemons, kiwi fruit and strawberries are all excellent natural sources of vitamin C.
The primary cause of scurvy is insufficient intake of vitamin C (ascorbic acid). This may be due to ignorance, famine, anorexia, restrictive diets (due to allergies, food fads, etc.), or difficulty orally ingesting foods. Scurvy can be prevented by consuming enough vitamin C, either in the diet or as a supplement. Foods that contain vitamin C include: Oranges, lemons, kiwi fruit and strawberries are all excellent natural sources of vitamin C.