Lesson Summary. In summary, myosin is a motor protein most notably involved in muscle contraction. Actin is a spherical protein that forms filaments, which are involved in muscle contraction and other important cellular processes. Tropomyosin is a long strand that loops around the actin chains in the thin filament. Troponin is a protein that helps hold tropomyosin in place on the actin filament. For a muscle contraction to occur, troponin and tropomyosin must be moved to reveal the myosin-binding sites. Calcium triggers movement of these proteins. When calcium binds to troponin, the shape of the troponin molecule changes. 
The head of a myosin which is globular attaches to actin filaments on proper sites. The myosin bundle tails structured the central stalk. Heads of myosin contain ATPase that converts ATP to ADP. Muscle contraction where actin and myosin functions, are best explained under the sliding filament theory. Actin and myosin are protein filaments that functions in the presence of calcium ions.actin and myosin are the striations in skeletal muscles. Light striations are called actin filaments. They are also referred as I band. Myosin filaments, on the other hand is the thicker one; thicker than actin myofilaments.
2. As actin and myosin filaments slide past each other during muscle contraction, actin filaments shorten, while myosin filaments do not. myosin filaments shorten, while actin filaments do not. either actin or myosin filaments shorten, but not both at the same time. both actin and myosin filaments shorten. 
Contracting a Muscle. During contraction, the thin filaments slide past the thick filaments, shortening the sarcomere. The thick and thin filaments do the actual work of a muscle, and the way they do this is pretty cool. Thick filaments are made of a protein called myosin. At the molecular level, a thick filament is a shaft of myosin molecules arranged in a cylinder. Thin filaments are made of another protein called actin
Calcium is required by two proteins, troponin and tropomyosin, that regulate muscle contraction by blocking the binding of myosin to filamentous actin. In a resting sarcomere, tropomyosin blocks the binding of myosin to actin. First, the action of the reaching myosin S1 head uses the energy released after the ATP molecule is broken into ADP and phosphate. Myosin binds actin in this extended conformation. Second, the release of the phosphate empowers the contraction of the myosin S1 region (Figure 4).
Actin participates in many important cellular processes, including muscle contraction, cell motility, cell division and cytokinesis, vesicle and organelle movement, cell signaling, and the establishment and maintenance of cell junctions and cell shape. In muscle, actin is the major component of thin filaments, which, together with the motor protein myosin (which forms thick filaments), are arranged into actomyosin myofibrils. These fibrils comprise the mechanism of muscle contraction
Actin vs Myosin. Actin and myosin are both found in the muscles. Both function for contraction of muscles. Actin and myosin are protein filaments that functions in the presence of calcium ions.actin and myosin are the striations in skeletal muscles. Light striations are called actin filaments. They are also referred as I band. Myosin filaments, on the other hand is the thicker one; thicker than actin myofilaments.
An actin protein's mass is roughly 42- kDa and it is the monomeric subunit of two types of filaments in cells: microfilaments, one of the three major components of the cytoskeleton, and thin filaments, part of the contractile apparatus in muscle cells. In muscle, actin is the major component of thin filaments, which, together with the motor protein myosin (which forms thick filaments), are arranged into actomyosin myofibrils. These fibrils comprise the mechanism of muscle contraction