As soon as the water reaches a rapid boil, remove pan from heat and cover egg pan tightly with a lid. Set timer for 17 minutes for large eggs or 20 minutes for jumbo eggs. After 17 or 20 minutes (depending on size of your eggs), remove lid and drain off water from the eggs.
Hard boiled eggs last about 7 days, but can spoil quickly if not handled properly. Hard boiled eggs are fresh whole eggs that have been boiled for 10 minutes. Chicken eggs are the most common choice for this process. Because of their relatively low-cost, high protein, versatility and portability hard boiled eggs are a popular protein choice.
Hard-boiled eggs, peeled or unpeeled, are still safe to eat up to one week after they were cooked. Keep them stored in the refrigerator, and you should consider writing the boiling date on each egg to know if they're still good! Kitchen Fact Source: Playing It Safe With Eggs from the Food and Drug Administration.
Answer: Fresh eggs are more difficult to peel after they are boiled. Eggs kept in the refrigerator for a week to ten days before boiling will peel more easily. Hard-boiled eggs are usually good for up to one week after they have been hard boiled, as long as the shell is not cracked.
Raw eggs keep a lot longer. Interestingly, hard-boiled eggs do not keep nearly as long as raw eggs, which can last three to five weeks in the refrigerator. There is a good reason for this. When a hen lays an egg, it puts a naturally protective coating on the outside of the shell.
Seven days. That's it. Once you've boiled eggs, they have just one week until you should think twice about eating one. (That's assuming they've been stored in the fridge shortly after being boiled.) And if that hard boiled egg was peeled before being refrigerated, that knocks two more days off of its shelf life.
Header image: CHOW. Hard-boiled eggs last about a week if they are kept in their shells, and should be refrigerated within two hours of cooking, says the USDA Food Safety and Inspection Service.