In a Frequency Polygon, a line graph is drawn by joining all the midpoints of the top of the bars of a histogram. 
Frequency Polygon [edit]. This is a histogram with an overlaid frequency polygon. Midpoints of the interval of corresponding rectangle in a histogram are joined together by straight lines. It gives a polygon i.e. a figure with many angles. 
To create a frequency polygon, start just as for histograms, by choosing a class interval. Then draw an X-axis representing the values of the scores in your data. Mark the middle of each class interval with a tick mark, and label it with the middle value represented by the class. You should include one class interval below the lowest value in your data and one above the highest value. The graph will then touch the X-axis on both sides. A frequency polygon for 642 psychology test scores shown in Figure 1 was constructed from the frequency table shown in Table 1. Table 1. Frequency Distribution of Psychology Test Score
A frequency polygon is a graphical display of a frequency table. The intervals are shown on the X-axis and the number of scores in each interval is represented by the height of a point located above the middle of the interval. The points are connected so that together with the X-axis they form a polygon. A frequency table and a relative frequency polygon for response times in a study on weapons and aggression are shown below. The times are in hundredths of a second. Frequency polygons are useful for comparing distributions
Frequency Polygon. A distribution of values of a discrete variate represented graphically by plotting points, , ..., , and drawing a set of straight line segments connecting adjacent points. It is usually preferable to use a histogram for grouped distributions. 
Frequency Polygons. A frequency polygon is another way to show the information in a frequency table. It looks a little bit like a line graph. To make a frequency polygon, you just need to plot a few points and then join the points by straight lines. 
Or, we can say that a frequency polygon is a closed figure, which is obtained by joining the middle points of the top of rectangles of histograms. The extreme values are joined with the x-axis at the half distance of class interval from the variable of the class interval. A graph which is used for understanding the shapes of distributions is known as a frequency polygon. A frequency polygon works as a histogram.
Graphical display of the frequency table can also be achieved through a frequency polygon. To create a. the intervals are labeled on the X-axis and the Y axis represents the height of a point in the middle of the interval. The points are then joined are connected to the X-axis and thus a polygon is formed. So, frequency polygon is a graph that is obtained by connecting the middle points of the intervals. We can create a frequency polygon from a histogram also. If the middle top points of the bars of the histogram are joined, a frequency polygon is formed. Frequency polygon and histogram fulfills the same purpose
A cumulative frequency polygon for the same test scores is shown in Figure 2. The graph is the same as before except that the Y value for each point is the number of students in the corresponding class interval plus all numbers in lower intervals. You should include one class interval below the lowest value in your data and one above the highest value. The graph will then touch the X-axis on both sides. A frequency polygon for 642 psychology test scores shown in Figure 1 was constructed from the frequency table shown in Table 1. Table 1. Frequency Distribution of Psychology Test Score