The Business License Application is a simplified application used to apply for many state licenses, registrations, and permits, and some city licenses. You may use it to: The Unified Business Identifier Number (UBI) can be used to identify your business account with many different agencies.
Your license fee will remain at $9 per year. If you have any endorsements, such as a motorcycle or CDL, you’ll pay an additional year for them too. See also: WA driver license renewal period is changing from 5 to 6 years. This list shows you a general idea of what you’d pay.
Considerations. The state may charge a general licensing fee for businesses not exempt from state business licensing requirements. For example, as of September 2010, the state of Alaska charges $50 for a general business license lasting one or two years. The state of Nevada charges $200 for a business license.
1 Driver's License Fraud If you apply for a new driver's license/ ID number within 150 days of the original expiration date, the fee is $20 for a 5 year license/ ID or $32 for a 8 year license/ ID. 2  Otherwise the fee is $5.
For example, the city of Chicago require day care licenses be renewed every two years. Renewal fees also vary by institution but may equal the amount of the initial license. A penalty usually applies if the renewal is late. For example, Georgia general contractors pay a late renewal fee of $200, as of September 2010.
Driver licensing fees. License renewal periods have changed to 6 years for most drivers. Some drivers are being randomly selected to receive a less-than-six-year driver license in order to make the transition as smooth as possible.
The fee is $18.00 for a four-year license or $34.00 for an eight-year license. Drivers who are 75 years old or older must renew their licenses yearly, but they are not charged renewal fees. State law now requires a DWI records check on all drivers moving to New Mexico from out-of-state.
Business license fees depend the federal, state or local licensing board’s regulations. For example, as of September 2010, a federal ocean transportation intermediary license costs $825. But, on a state level, fees vary by state.