1 The two atrioventricular (AV) valves, the mitral valve (bicuspid valve), and the tricuspid valve, which are between the upper atria and the lower ventricles. 2  The two semilunar (SL) valves, the aortic valve and the pulmonary valve, which are in the arteries leaving the heart. The mitral valve and the aortic valve are in the left heart; the tricuspid valve and the pulmonary valve are in the right heart. There are also the coronary sinus and the inferior vena cava valves.
I think there's only 1 pulmonary valve, which is located between the right ventricle and the pulmonary artery. Pulmonary valve and aortic valve, which lies between the left ventricle and the aorta, are two semilunar valves. Source(s): welcometotherealworld · 5 years ago. · just now. Report Abuse. There are two types of valves: cuspid valves between chambers which are anchored by chordae tendonae in the ventricles and semilunar valves found in the vessels leaving the heart. The left atrium and left ventricle are separated by the bicuspid/mitral valve. The right atrium and right ventricle are separated by the tricuspid valve. Semilunar valves are found in the pulmonary artery and aorta leaving the left right and left ventricles, respectively
aortic valve. see aortic valve. atrioventricular v's. the valves between the right atrium and right ventricle (tricuspid valve) and the left atrium and left ventricle (mitral valve). bicuspid valve. mitral valve. cardiac v's. valves that control flow of blood through and from the heart. mitral valve the cardiac valve between the left atrium and left ventricle, usually having two cusps (anterior and posterior). Called also bicuspid valve. Valves of the heart. The right heart pumps the venous blood into the lungs.
Semilunar valves are located at the begining of pulmonary artery and aorta. They close in diastole due to the back pressure of the blood in the corresponding arteries,once the … systolic ejection force from the ventricle stops. AV valves separate the atria and ventricles. 
They are shaped like a half moon, hence the name semilunar (semi- , -lunar). The semilunar valves are located between the aorta and the left ventricle and between the pulmonary artery and the right ventricle. 1  Aortic Valve. 2  Pulmonary Valve. 
aortic valve a semilunar valve that separates the left ventricle and the aorta; it opens with end diastole, causing the second heart sound. atrioventricular v's the cardiac valves between the right atrium and right ventricle (tricuspid valve) and the left atrium and left ventricle (mitral valve). mitral valve the cardiac valve between the left atrium and left ventricle, usually having two cusps (anterior and posterior). Called also bicuspid valve. Valves of the heart. The right heart pumps the venous blood into the lungs.
The semilunar valves (SV) are two valve structures that sit between the right ventricle and the pulmonary artery and between the left ventricle and the aorta. The flaps of the valves open and close to allow the unidirectional flow of blood out of the heart, while preventing backflow of blood. One of the semilunar valves sits between the left ventricle of the heart and the aorta. Over time, regurgitation of the aortic valve can cause fatigue and difficulty breathing.
The valve between the left ventricle and aorta is called the aortic valve and the valve between the pulmonary artery and right ventricle is called the pulmonary valve. The heart has two types of valves: the atrioventricular (AV) and semilunar. One of the semilunar valves sits between the left ventricle of the heart and the aorta. Over time, regurgitation of the aortic valve can cause fatigue and difficulty breathing.
A heart valve normally allows blood to flow in only one direction through the heart. The four valves commonly represented in a mammalian heart determine the pathway of blood flow through the heart. A heart valve opens or closes incumbent on differential blood pressure on each side. The four main valves in the heart are: 1  The two atrioventricular (AV) valves, the mitral valve (bicuspid valve), and the tricuspid valve, which are between the upper atria and the lower ventricles. The mitral valve and the aortic valve are in the left heart; the tricuspid valve and the pulmonary valve are in the right heart. There are also the coronary sinus and the inferior vena cava valves.