Urostomy: A Guide Urostomy surgery is needed when the bladder isn’t working the way it should. There are 4 major bladder problems that may be treated with a urostomy: bladder cancer, damage to the nerves that control the bladder (called neurogenic bladder disease), birth defects, and chronic inflammation of the bladder.
If you have hair on your skin around your stoma, removing it may help the pouch stick. 1  Use a trimming scissors, electric shaver, or have laser treatment to remove the hair. 2  Do not use a straight edge or safety razor. 3  Be careful to protect your stoma if you remove hair around it. Skin care tips: 1  Wash your skin with warm water and dry it well before you attach the pouch. 2  Avoid skin-cleaning products that contain alcohol. 3  These can make your skin too dry. 4  Do not use products that contain oil on your skin around your stoma. 5  These can make it hard to attach the pouch to your skin.
People with a stoma often worry that their skin. may become irritated from the stool, urine, or. pouching system. It is important to treat the. skin gently, protect it from stool, urine, and. chemicals, and use products correctly to. decrease the chance for skin problems. You can use a. mirror to check your skin under the stoma. Look for any places where stool or urine may have leaked under the skin barrier and onto your skin. When you apply your next pouching system these areas may need some extra reinforcement with skin barrier strips, rings or paste.
1 Keep the skin where you apply the pouch wrinkle-free. 2  If the skin around the pouch is wrinkled, the seal may break when your skin stretches. 3  If hair grows close to your stoma, you may trim off the hair with scissors, an electric razor, or a safety razor. Applying Your Pouch. 1  You may stand or sit to apply your pouch. 2  Keep the skin where you apply the pouch wrinkle-free. 3  If the skin around the pouch is wrinkled, the seal may break when your skin stretches. 4
1 For those that prefer to use soap to clean around the stoma, it’s best to use a very mild soap. 2  Avoid using soaps and cleansers with oils, perfumes or deodorants since these can sometimes cause skin problems or prevent your skin barrier from sticking. 1 Unless recommended, do not apply powders or creams to the skin around your stoma because they can keep your skin barrier from sticking. 2  Sometimes you may see a small amount of blood on your cloth. 3  The stoma tissue contains small blood vessels and may bleed a small amount when cleaned.
1 Rinse the soap off the skin around your stoma very well because the residue may keep your skin barrier from sticking and may also cause skin irritation. 2  If you are using a skin paste, it may be easier to remove the paste before you wet the area. 3  Some people may use adhesive remover. 1 Unless recommended, do not apply powders or creams to the skin around your stoma because they can keep your skin barrier from sticking. 2  Sometimes you may see a small amount of blood on your cloth. 3  The stoma tissue contains small blood vessels and may bleed a small amount when cleaned.
1 To clean the skin around your stoma, all you really need to use is warm water and a washcloth (or good quality paper towels). 2  The use of gauze or gloves is not usually necessary. 3  For those that prefer to use soap to clean around the stoma, it’s best to use a very mild soap. 1 Unless recommended, do not apply powders or creams to the skin around your stoma because they can keep your skin barrier from sticking. 2  Sometimes you may see a small amount of blood on your cloth. 3  The stoma tissue contains small blood vessels and may bleed a small amount when cleaned.
1 Make sure the skin around the stoma is wrinkle-free. 2  Center the opening on the stoma, then press firmly to your abdomen (Fig. 4). 3  Look in the mirror to check if you are placing the pouch, or wafer, in the right position. 4  For a 2-piece system, snap the pouch onto the wafer. 5  Make sure it snaps into place securely. 1 You may stand or sit to apply your pouch. 2  Keep the skin where you apply the pouch wrinkle-free. 3  If the skin around the pouch is wrinkled, the seal may break when your skin stretches. 4  If hair grows close to your stoma, you may trim off the hair with scissors, an electric razor, or a safety razor.
1 Make sure the skin around the stoma is wrinkle-free. 2  Center the opening on the stoma, then press firmly to your abdomen (Fig. 4). 3  Look in the mirror to check if you are placing the pouch, or wafer, in the right position. 4  For a 2-piece system, snap the pouch onto the wafer. 5  Make sure it snaps into place securely. Applying Your Pouch. 1  You may stand or sit to apply your pouch. 2  Keep the skin where you apply the pouch wrinkle-free. 3  If the skin around the pouch is wrinkled, the seal may break when your skin stretches. 4  If hair grows close to your stoma, you may trim off the hair with scissors, an electric razor, or a safety razor.