The average cost for general liability insurance varies depending on the type of business and risks involved. The average cost for professional liability insurance, or errors and ommissions insurance, for small consulting businesses is around a few thousand dollars a year. Other People Are Reading. The riskier and larger the operation, the more the business will pay. According to Trusted Choice Independent Insurance Agents, a sole proprietor can expect to pay around $500 annually for general liability insurance, while a small consulting business will most likely pay over $3,000 annually.
1 Premiums for liability insurance vary widely depending on the size of the business (in square footage and/or payroll), the risks involved and the exact type of coverage. 2  A commercial liability policy for a home-based child care business runs $ 350-$700 or more a year, according to the National Network for Child Care. 1 A commercial liability policy for a home-based child care business runs $ 350-$700 or more a year, according to the National Network for Child Care. 2  Professional liability coverage for a photographer runs $1,000-$1,500 annually, according to the Professional Photographers of America.
The sample we analyzed included 15,000 businesses with 10 or fewer employees. Here's the big-picture overview: the average annual cost for small business General Liability Insurance, regardless of policy limits, was just $575.16 (less than $50 per month), with a median price of $425. Most small businesses owners (almost 60 percent) paid between $400 and $600. As you can see, about 90 percent of insureon customers pay less than $1,000 per year (that's less than $85 per month) for General Liability Insurance. One of the factors that had the biggest impacts on the cost of General Liability Insurance was the industry of the business buying coverage.
Small Business Majority and Families USA conducted economic research that found more than 3.2 million small businesses (70% of businesses with fewer than 25 workers) were eligible for tax credits to help with the cost of health insurance coverage for their workers for the 2011 tax year. If an employer pays 80% of the premium, then the amount that counts is limited to the same portion—80% of the average cost of health insurance in the state. The average premium for the small group market is determined by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS).
Average Insurance Costs. The average cost of insurance for a small business depends on the size of the business and the nature of operations. The riskier and larger the operation, the more the business will pay. According to Trusted Choice Independent Insurance Agents, a sole proprietor can expect to pay around $500 annually for general liability insurance, while a small consulting business will most likely pay over $3,000 annually.
Liability insurance coverage is important to protect a business and its owners from unexpected occurrences and accidents that can hurt a business financially. The typical annual cost of liability insurance for a small business is anywhere from $500 to several thousand dollars. Nevertheless, liability insurance is a good investment to protect your business. 
Costs for general liability insurance depend on the location of the business, yearly revenue and the past claims history of the sole proprietor. It could be as low as $500 to as high as $15,000 a year for a sole proprietor, as of July 2011. Related Reading: Sole Proprietorship & Health Insurance. 
Average business insurance costs for E & O coverage for small firms is typically in the range of $1,000 to $3,000 annually per million dollars of coverage. There are many ways to package policies, get discounts, and reduce your business insurance costs. 1 A sole proprietor might pay $500 per year for general liability insurance, but a small consulting firm is likely to pay over $3,000 per year. 2  A sole proprietor who hems garments out of a home office has limited liability concerns, but a landscaper may pay upwards of $15,000 annually due to increased risk.
Irrespective of industry, business size, or policy bought, the average cost of a small business insurance policy in 2014 was $725.33. The median cost was $500. Of course, those numbers only offer a very broad overview. For businesses that buy three policies, the average yearly cost is $2,424.53 (the median cost is $1,930). The most popular three-policy combinations are…. 1  50%: General Liability + Errors & Omissions + Workers' Compensation. 2  30%: BOP
The average cost of insurance for a small business depends on the size of the business and the nature of operations. The riskier and larger the operation, the more the business will pay. According to Trusted Choice Independent Insurance Agents, a sole proprietor can expect to pay around $500 annually for general liability insurance, while a small consulting business will most likely pay over $3,000 annually.