A filament that makes up the body of most fungi and water molds is  called hypha, the plural form being hyphae. They are embedded in  the material where fungi and molds grow … . 2 people found this useful. 1 If there is an overgrowth of Candida, it can result in conditions such as yeast infections or thrush. 2  W…. 3  The Five Major Parts of the Brain At its most basic, the brain controls the body.
The Body of a Fungus Fungi exist mainly in the form of slender filaments, barelyvisible to the naked eye, which are called hyphae (singular, hypha). These hyphae are typically made up of long chainsof cells joined end-to-end divided by cross-walls called septa (singular, septum). 
The  bodies of most fungi are constructed of threadlike filaments called  Hyphae.  A  mass of hyphae is called a mycelium, the feeding structure of the  fungus. . 1 person found this useful. Hyphae, the individual filaments, grouped together form the mycellium of the fungi. 1 person found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  The Five Major Parts of the Brain At its most basic, the brain controls the body. 2  Electrical impulses are sent along the nervous system to and from the brain that regulate all movement
It is a hidden kingdom. The part of the fungus that we see is only the fruit of the organism. The living body of the fungus is a mycelium made out of a web of tiny filaments called hyphae. The mycelium is usually hidden in the soil, in wood, or another food source. A mycelium may fill a single ant, or cover many acres. The branching hyphae can add over a half mile (1 km) of total length to the mycelium each day. 
A filament that makes up the body of most fungi and water molds is  called hypha, the plural form being hyphae. They are embedded in  the material where fungi and molds grow … . 2 people found this useful. Hyphae, the individual filaments, grouped together form the mycellium of the fungi. 1 person found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  The Five Major Parts of the Brain At its most basic, the brain controls the body. 2  Electrical impulses are sent along the nervous system to and from the brain that regulate all movement
Fungi: More on Morphology. Like plants and animals, fungi are eukaryotic multicellular organisms. Unlike these other groups, however, fungi are composed of filaments called hyphae; their cells are long and thread-like and connected end-to-end, as you can see in the picture below. Another feature of fungi is the presence of chitin in their cell walls. This is a long carbohydrate polymer that also occurs in the exoskeletons of insects, spiders, and other arthropods. The chitin adds rigidity and structural support to the thin cells of the fungus, and makes fresh mushrooms crisp.
Conidia on conidiophores. A hypha (plural hyphae, from Greek ὑφή, huphḗ, “web”) is a long, branching filamentous structure of a fungus, oomycete, or actinobacterium. In most fungi, hyphae are the main mode of vegetative growth, and are collectively called a mycelium. Yeasts are unicellular fungi that do not grow as hyphae. In most fungi, hyphae are divided into cells by internal cross-walls called septa (singular septum). Septa are usually perforated by pores large enough for ribosomes, mitochondria and sometimes nuclei to flow between cells.
The Body of a Fungus Fungi exist mainly in the form of slender filaments, barelyvisible to the naked eye, which are called hyphae (singular, hypha). These hyphae are typically made up of long chainsof cells joined end-to-end divided by cross-walls called septa (singular, septum). 4. Fungi have cell walls made of chitin. The cellwalls of fungi are built of polysaccharides (chains ofsugars) and chitin, the same tough material a crabshell is made of. The cell walls of plants are made ofcellulose, also a strong building material. 5. Fungi have nuclear mitosis. Mitosis in fungi isdifferent from that in plants or most other eukaryotesin one key respect: the nuclear envelope does notbreak down and re-form. Instead, mitosis takes place within the nucleus