My name is Yesenia and I live in Upstate New York My name means Flower and its beautiful, and Yes at times we can be a pain.. so do not mess around with Yesenia Girls.... 
Yesenia /yese-nia/ [4 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced yeh-SEE-nee-ah. It is of Spanish origin. A form of Jesenia, a Hispanic name, and phonetic variant of Llesenia, a name made popular by the title character of a 1970s Spanish soap opera. Also possibly of Russian origin, from the male name Yesenin. (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the birth name popularity of Yesenia for girls. Yesenia entered the list in 1970-1979 and reached its highest rank of #156 in the U.S. in 1990, but is not found in the list currently. (Top 1000 Birth Names Records, 2014)
Meaning of Yesenia. Spanish name. In Spanish, the name Yesenia means-The Gypsy title character of a Spanish soap opera from the 1970s.. Other origins for the name Yesenia include-Spanish, African.The name Yesenia is most often used as a girl name or female name. Spanish Name Meaning-The Gypsy title character of a Spanish soap opera from the 1970s. Origin-Spanish.
Yesenia is the Spanish vernacular name for a type of palm tree native to the Amazon rainforests of South America; from the genus Oenocarpus. Various species of the Yesenia tree are found in places such as Brazil, Bolivia, Columbia and Peru (among other countries). 
Yesenia is a form of the name Iscah. Yesenia is a variant spelling of Jessenia. In the Old Testament, Iscah or Yiskah, is the name of Abraham's niece. In the Old Testament, Iscah or Yiskah, is the name of Abraham's niece. The name is the basis for the English name Jessica. The BDB Theological Dictionary considers the etymology dubious. NOBS Study Bible Name List derives the meaning from a verb that does not appear in the scriptures, the verb sakkah (&#1505&#1499&#1492) which means to look at and translates the name to mean watchful.
Yesenia Name Meaning. The meaning of Yesenia is “Flora”. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. If you consider naming your baby Yesenia we recommend you take note of the special meaning and history of the name as your baby’s name will play a big role in its life and your baby will hear it spoken every day.
Yesenia. Female with large breasts, brown hair, and an amazing personality, usually the cause of car accidents, neck cricks and walking into walls. Yesenia may in fact be the end of the world, that is how big her potential is. 
[ 3 syll. ye-se-nia, yes-en-ia ] The baby girl name Yesenia is pronounced as Yeh-S EH NYaa or Yeh-S EH N-iy-ah- †. Yesenia is of Arabic origin and it is used mainly in English. Yesenia is a variant transcription of Jessenia (Arabic and English). Yessenia (spelling variant in English) is a form of the name. Yesenia is an all-time favorite. Currently it is still somewhat popular as a baby girl name, but not as much as it was in the past. The name's popularity grew from the 1970s up to the 1980s; before that, it was of only infrequent use. Its usage peaked modestly in 1987 with 0.107% of baby girls being named Yesenia
Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Yesenia and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The history and meaning of the name Yesenia is fascinating, learn more about it. If you consider naming your baby Yesenia we recommend you take note of the special meaning and history of the name as your baby’s name will play a big role in its life and your baby will hear it spoken every day.