Statins for Hyperlipidemia (High Cholesterol) Examples of statin drugs How It Works Statins block (inhibit) an enzyme the body needs to produce cholesterol. As a result, LDL cholesterol levels in the blood go down, thereby lowering total blood cholesterol levels.
Below is a list of common medications used to treat or reduce the symptoms of Mixed Hyperlipidemia. Follow the links to read common uses, side effects, dosage details and read user reviews for the drugs listed below.
Pharmacologic treatment of hyperlipidemia in conjunction with therapeutic lifestyle changes can be used for both primary and secondary prevention of cardiovascular disease. Statins have the most convincing data for primary prevention, especially for higher risk patients. Therefore, risk stratification is essential.
Various medications can lower blood cholesterol levels. Statins are recommended for most patients because they are the only cholesterol-lowering drug class that has been directly associated with reduced risk for heart attack and stroke.
Treatment of hyperlipidemia improves outcomes for patients with known coronary heart disease (CHD) or the risk equivalent, and for high-risk patients (i.e., those with a 10-year CHD risk of greater than 20 percent) without known CHD or the risk equivalent.
This class of drugs works in the liver to prevent the formation of cholesterol, thus lowering the amount of cholesterol circulating in the blood. Statins are most effective at lowering LDL (bad) cholesterol, but also have modest effects on lowering triglycerides (blood fats) and raising HDL (good) cholesterol.
Cholesterol is a fat (also called a lipid) that your body needs to work properly. Too much bad cholesterol can increase your chance of getting heart disease, stroke, and other problems. The medical term for high blood cholesterol is lipid disorder, hyperlipidemia, or hypercholesterolemia.
Approximately one half of the patients taking lipid-lowering drugs discontinue their medication after one year, and 75 percent stop after two years. 4 With the advent of new drugs (e.g., “statins”) and modifications of older agents (e.g., niacin), adverse effects are no longer a major obstacle to compliance.
Your total cholesterol level is in the Desirable range, but your level of bad LDL cholesterol is High. This may mean that your level of high-density lipoprotein (HDL), or good cholesterol, is too low. It is best to have a high level of good HDL and a low level of bad LDL.