The ROI for hiring an employee is all about establishing a benchmark for performance. The Human Resources Department will translate it as their guidelines about the quality of workforce to provide. Hence, if the HR group reduces its hiring costs for the current year, this would mean that the company’s operation has the potential to increase its net income by the amount of the cost reduction initiated by the Human Resources department. The use of this concept in calculating ROI is called Cost Reduction.
Next, calculate the cost of your employee’s time per hour. In the calculator, we use the following assumptions to determine the cost of each hour of a team member’s time: an average salary of $100k, 49 working weeks in a year (52 weeks per year with 3 weeks of vacation), 5 days per week, and 8 hours per day. We first explored the idea of valuing industry conferences in a recent article on event ROI. Today we have distilled those principles into a free, downloadable excel template that allows you to calculate the ROI on the time and money you spend attending events.
1 Your average salary input. 2  For your information, the national average wage for 2010 in the US was $41,673/year. 3  Employer costs for employee benefits according to statistics from the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (2014). 4  Average number of working days in a year minus 20 days holiday (including public holidays). 1 Employer costs for employee benefits according to statistics from the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (2014). 2  Average number of working days in a year minus 20 days holiday (including public holidays). 3  Source: Employee Engagement: The Key To Realizing Competitive Advantage.
We will use the same formula in calculating ROI for hiring employees, but the costs included are those that are directly and indirectly incurred in the process of recruiting and selecting the new members of the workforce. Hence, if the HR group reduces its hiring costs for the current year, this would mean that the company’s operation has the potential to increase its net income by the amount of the cost reduction initiated by the Human Resources department. The use of this concept in calculating ROI is called Cost Reduction.
Here is an example to help clarify how to calculate the ROI of hiring the top-third: 1  For Sample Company assume we’ll be hiring 100 people over the next 12 months at an average compensation of $100,000. 2  This is a total of $10 million in additional compensation. The $2.40 shown for Sample Company means that a typical new hire who earns $100,000 per year would generate $240,000 in additional profit for the company. This multiplier is used to for determining the ROI for different salary levels and for different levels of performance.
Step 2. Measure how long it takes the average employee to make the widgets before the training. If the average number of widgets produced per employee is 60 per 40-hour, five-day work week, the employee averages 12 per day, or 1.5 widgets per hour. Step 4. Provide the process improvement training to the employees, at a cost of $1,000 per employee, for this example. If the training is successful, you should expect to see a greater number of widgets produced per employee, per hour.
1 Your average salary input. 2  For your information, the national average wage for 2010 in the US was $41,673/year. 3  Employer costs for employee benefits according to statistics from the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (2014). 4  Conservative productivity gain. 1 Employer costs for employee benefits according to statistics from the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (2014). 2  Average number of working days in a year minus 20 days holiday (including public holidays). 3  Source: Employee Engagement: The Key To Realizing Competitive Advantage.
To compute the ROI for hiring employees, we will use our net income and asset investment values using the traditional ROI formula: ROI = $ 197,500 (Net Income) / $ 150,000 (Asset Investment or the Salary of New Hires) x 100. ROI = 131.67%. Hence, if the HR group reduces its hiring costs for the current year, this would mean that the company’s operation has the potential to increase its net income by the amount of the cost reduction initiated by the Human Resources department. The use of this concept in calculating ROI is called Cost Reduction.
Step 8. Calculate the ROI for that employee's training, using the standard formula. Use the net benefit -- increased profit -- and training costs noted above. In this example, ROI (percentage) = (($4,000 - 1,000)/1,000) x 100, or (3,000/1,000) x 100, or 3 x 100, for a percentage return on investment of 300. Step 4. Provide the process improvement training to the employees, at a cost of $1,000 per employee, for this example. If the training is successful, you should expect to see a greater number of widgets produced per employee, per hour.
ROI Studies. Based on a feasiblity study, Carhartt measured the ROI of its Halogen investment, and calculated the cost savings for all involved. The ROI on the Halogen solution has been 120% for Carhartt, with a measurable annual cost savings across HR, IS, and manager