Bilirubin is responsible for the yellow color seen in jaundice sufferers and bruises, and is created when hemoglobin (the pigment that makes blood red) is broken down. Recently this pigment has also been found in plants, specifically in the orange fuzz on seeds of the white Bird of Paradise tree. Astaxanthin provides the red colors of cooked salmon, red bream, trout, lobster, and shellfish. In a live animal, astaxanthin is combined with a protein and is blackish in color. When boiled, the protein breaks down to unmask the true “lobster red” of astaxanthin.
Apples, pine bark, cinnamon, grape seed, cocoa, grape skin, and the grapes used to make most red wines all contain proanthcyanidin. The yellow colors of flavonoid pigments can be found as chalcones (found in flowers and the organs of plants), aurones (found in flowers and some bark, wood, or leaves) and flavonols. Astaxanthin provides the red colors of cooked salmon, red bream, trout, lobster, and shellfish. In a live animal, astaxanthin is combined with a protein and is blackish in color. When boiled, the protein breaks down to unmask the true “lobster red” of astaxanthin.
Plant Breeding as a Hobby. In order to breed plants successfully it is important to understand the principles of plant reproduction. The purpose of this circular is to explain these principles and to describe some of the simple techniques that you can use to produce new varieties or strains of plants.
Clematis bloom in a range of color, but the true blue-flowering varieties, such as 'Crystal Fountain', 'Ice Blue', or 'Arabella' are among the most charming. Grow these vines on a trellis or in a small tree or large shrub. Delphinium. Delphiniums offer some of the truest-blue flowers in the garden. In many areas, the plants are a bit fussy (delphiniums prefer regions with cool summers) -- though many gardeners find these regal flowers well worth the extra effort.
Plant Growth & Light Color. Question: I need help with an experiment I'm doing. I read some place that plants need more red artificial light because it is the color of heat. It also said that artificial blue light was a cool color. I suspect it's not the color 'temperatures' you'll find to be central, but the frequencies of light that come in contact with the plants. You can do literature searches on such topics as color, temperature, and plants. But conducting an experiment gives you direct experience and first hand observations.
Pigments are responsible for many of the beautiful colors we see in the plant world. Dyes have often been made from both animal sources and plant extracts. Some of the pigments found in animals have also recently been found in plants. Astaxanthin provides the red colors of cooked salmon, red bream, trout, lobster, and shellfish. In a live animal, astaxanthin is combined with a protein and is blackish in color. When boiled, the protein breaks down to unmask the true “lobster red” of astaxanthin.
Universe Today has a number of articles on this topic including the art of extraterrestrial photography and Hubble photos of Uranus and Neptune. If you are interested in the colors of planets, you may also want to check out the color of plants on other worlds and the planets’ true colors. Astronomy Cast has episodes on all of the planets, so start with Mercury and listen to all of them. Venus appears to be a yellowish color, which is caused by sulfuric acid in the thick atmosphere of the planet. The actually surface of the planet, when not seen through the yellow atmosphere, is an iron-grey color, similar to the surface of Mercury and the Moon.
John Ott worked a great deal with plants and how light and color affects them. I suggest you read some of his work. You can find references to John Ott on the web. I suspect it's not the color 'temperatures' you'll find to be central, but the frequencies of light that come in contact with the plants. You can do literature searches on such topics as color, temperature, and plants. But conducting an experiment gives you direct experience and first hand observations.