Many studies show that the vitamins, minerals, amino acids, chlorophyll and other substances in chlorella, a single-celled fresh water green algae, helps to detoxify the body. But it has been proven that it is the tough fibrous material in the outer shell that actually binds with toxins and carries them out of the body. Chlorella contains over 12% chlorophyll, the largest amount in any plant gram for gram. Chlorophyll is the substance that makes plants green and photosynthesis possible – the process by which plants use the energy from the sun to convert carbon dioxide and water to glucose.
Chlorella is a genus of single-cell green algae belonging to the phylum Chlorophyta. It is spherical in shape, about 2 to 10 μm in diameter, and is without flagella. Chlorella contains the green photosynthetic pigments chlorophyll-a and-b in its chloroplast. Through photosynthesis, it multiplies rapidly, requiring only carbon dioxide, water, sunlight, and a small amount of minerals to reproduce. It is a potential food source because it is high in protein and other essential nutrients; when dried, it is about 45% protein, 20% fat, 20% carbohydrate, 5% fibre, and 10% minerals and vitamins. Mass-production methods are now being used to cultivate it in large artificial circular ponds.
Chlorella is a good source of protein, fats, carbohydrates, fiber, chlorophyll, vitamins, and minerals. The cell wall of chlorella must be broken down before people can digest it. Chlorella seems to be safe for most people when used as a food supplement. The most common side effects include diarrhea, nausea, gas (flatulence), green discoloration of the stools, and stomach cramping, especially in the first week it is used.
1 Chlorella, a single-celled, micro-algae, is one of the most powerful detoxification tools to eliminate accumulated toxins, including mercury, in your body. One other thing to be aware of when using chlorella is that this green algae does contain large concentrations of iron. Iron levels in women should not be a problem due to the loss of iron related to the menstrual cycle, but for men, or postmenopausal women, excessive iron can become a problem.
home vitamins, herbs, dietary supplements a-z list chlorella. Chlorella is a good source of protein, fats, carbohydrates, fiber, chlorophyll, vitamins, and minerals. The cell wall of chlorella must be broken down before people can digest it. Chlorella seems to be safe for most people when used as a food supplement. The most common side effects include diarrhea, nausea, gas (flatulence), green discoloration of the stools, and stomach cramping, especially in the first week it is used.
Chlorella is a type of algae that grows in fresh water. The whole plant is used to make nutritional supplements and medicine. Most of the chlorella that is available in the U.S. is grown in Japan or Taiwan. It is processed and made into tablets and liquid extracts. Chlorella contains large amounts of vitamin K. Vitamin K is used by the body to help blood clot. Warfarin (Coumadin) is used to slow blood clotting. By helping the blood clot, chlorella might decrease the effectiveness of warfarin (Coumadin).
Chlorella is single-cell green algae that grows wild in fresh water, and it has long attracted attention as a health food. Chlorella has been on Earth since the birth of the planet owing to its astonishing vitality. The existence of Chlorella was recognized around the time when the first microscope was invented. 
Chlorella is POSSIBLY SAFE when taken by mouth, short-term (up to 2 months). The most common side effects include diarrhea, nausea, gas (flatulence), green discoloration of the stools, and stomach cramping, especially in the first week of use. Chlorella contains large amounts of vitamin K. Vitamin K is used by the body to help blood clot. Warfarin (Coumadin) is used to slow blood clotting. By helping the blood clot, chlorella might decrease the effectiveness of warfarin (Coumadin).
Story at-a-glance 1  +. Chlorella, a single-celled, micro-algae, is one of the most powerful detoxification tools to eliminate accumulated toxins, including mercury, in your body. One other thing to be aware of when using chlorella is that this green algae does contain large concentrations of iron. Iron levels in women should not be a problem due to the loss of iron related to the menstrual cycle, but for men, or postmenopausal women, excessive iron can become a problem.
In this article. Chlorella is a type of freshwater seaweed (green algae). It contains protein, iron, vitamins B and C, and other antioxidants. It may contain substances that fight bacteria, fungi, tumors, and viruses. Some evidence suggests chlorella may: 1  Help people with certain tumors better tolerate chemotherapy and radiation. 2  Raise white blood cell count in people with HIV or cancer, which helps your body fight infections. 3  Protect against cell damage from radiation and toxic metals, such as lead.