Muscle meat such as the heart, while technically a body organ, is not considered an organ meat. Organs such as the liver and kidneys filter toxins in the body. This is why organ meats should be used in limited quantities up to 10% of the total diet. The heart is not used to filter toxins. The heart carries the greatest volume of blood through the body, which makes the heart the most nutrient-rich muscle in the body and is why Primal utilizes this as a source of muscle meat in our formulas.
Here is a top and bottom view of a Beef Heart: I do NOT remove the fat from the meats I feed because dogs need both protein AND fat in their diets. If my dogs need to lose weight I feed less FOOD, not less fat. Muscle Meat-basically this is any meat without bones. Boneless Chicken breasts, ground beef, turkey breast, beef or bison steaks, beef/pork heart (it really is a muscle and not an organ), pork butt, lamb, deer meat, fish fillets etc. Any meat without bones in it. Our mainstay muscle meat is heart-beef and pork. 
If you look up the word “meat,” you’ll usually find it defined as muscle tissue from a meat animal. Meat animals are many, of course, but to most North Americans, are typically cattle, or pigs, or sheep, or chickens, or turkeys, or ducks, or geese, or (less commonly) rabbits and goats. Back to muscle tissue meat. Most animal muscle consists of about 75 percent water, 19 percent protein, 2.5 percent intramuscular fat, 1.2 percent carbohydrates and about 2.3 percent other substances like amino acids and minerals.
Ground beef is a muscle meat. But chicken backs are not. There may be some meat on the backs, but I would count them more as RMBs than meat. Muscle meat is anything that was once a muscle. So any meat from any animal is muscle meat ... beef, pork, chicken, turkey, fish, venison, etc. All the stuff that humans would consider to be meat is muscle meat. Yes, I consider ground beef a muscle meat. I believe mm is pretty much anything that isn't a secreting organ or bone or tendon or cartiledge (exactly what a muscle is..). Chicken backs are very bony, so I call them RMB instead of muscle meat when I'm charting.
muscle fibers, or cells. Meat is mostly the muscle tissue of an animal. Most animal muscle is roughly 75% water, 20% protein, and 5% fat, carbohydrates, and assorted proteins. Muscles are made of bundles of cells called fibers. Each cell is crammed with filaments made of two proteins: actin and myosin. The breakdown of glycogen produces enough energy to contract the muscles, and also produces lactic acid. With no blood flow to carry the lactic acid away, the acid builds up in the muscle tissue. If the acid content is too high, the meat loses its water-binding ability and becomes pale and watery.
Its acceptability as a food source varies in different parts of the world. Beef muscle meat can be cut into roasts, short ribs or steak (filet mignon, sirloin steak, rump steak, rib steak, rib eye steak, hanger steak, etc.). Some cuts are processed (corned beef or beef jerky), and trimmings, usually mixed with meat from older, leaner cattle, are ground, minced or used in sausages
Butcherly speaking, the word “meat” extends beyond muscle tissue to include offal (also called variety or organ meat). The name comes from the old days, and refers to the bits that “fall off” the carcass when the animal is slaughtered. Back to muscle tissue meat. Most animal muscle consists of about 75 percent water, 19 percent protein, 2.5 percent intramuscular fat, 1.2 percent carbohydrates and about 2.3 percent other substances like amino acids and minerals.