• In eukaryotes, multiple replication sites are present in a single DNA molecule whereas, in prokaryotes, a single replication site is present in the circular DNA molecule. • In prokaryotes, DNA replication involves three polymerase enzymes; namely, DNA polymerase I, DNA polymerase II, and DNA polymerase III. Prokaryotic DNA and eukaryotic DNA vary widely; so do their replication processes. Prokaryotic DNA Replication. Unlike in eukaryotes, there is a single circular DNA exists in prokaryotes. The replication in the prokaryotic chromosome begins at the origin of replication.
Eukaryotic DNA Replication. Unlike in prokaryotes, eukaryotes have a large amount DNA. Therefore, the replication of DNA in eukaryotes are quite complex and involve many biological processes. Since the DNA amount is large, there are few origins of replication points, which form the bubbles. Prokaryotic DNA and eukaryotic DNA vary widely; so do their replication processes. Prokaryotic DNA Replication. Unlike in eukaryotes, there is a single circular DNA exists in prokaryotes. The replication in the prokaryotic chromosome begins at the origin of replication.
The termination of DNA replication occurs at specific termination sites in both prokaryotes and eukaryotes. In prokaryotes, a single termination site is present midway between the circular chromosome. The two replication forks meet at this site, thus, halting the replication process. The replication occurs in the cytoplasm of the cell. In case of eukaryotes, the organisms that contain a membrane-bound nucleus, the DNA is sequestered inside the nucleus. Hence, the nucleus is the site for DNA replication in
by admin. Prokaryotic vs Eukaryotic DNA. All the organisms are classified as either Prokaryotic or Eukaryotic. The Organisms that lack nucleus or membrane bounded organelles are called prokaryote while eukaryotes have ‘true’ nuclei that contain DNA and membrane bound organelles. 
• Many replication bubbles present in eukaryotes, whereas no or few replication bubbles present in prokaryotes. • In prokaryotes, RNA acts as the primer whereas, in eukaryotes, either RNA or DNA acts as the primer. • DNA replication in eukaryotes takes place during the cell cycle, unlike in prokaryotes. Read more: Prokaryotic DNA and eukaryotic DNA vary widely; so do their replication processes. Prokaryotic DNA Replication. Unlike in eukaryotes, there is a single circular DNA exists in prokaryotes. The replication in the prokaryotic chromosome begins at the origin of replication.
Differences between Prokaryotic and Eukaryotic DNA Replication. Differences between prokaryotic and eukaryotic DNA replication are largely related to contrasts in size and complexity of the DNA and cells of these organisms. The average eukaryotic cell has 25 times more DNA than a prokaryotic cell. In prokaryotic cells, there is only one point of origin, replication occurs in two opposing directions at the same time, and takes place in the cell cytoplasm.
The prokaryotic DNA is present as a DNA-protein complex called nucleoid. The replication occurs in the cytoplasm of the cell. In case of eukaryotes, the organisms that contain a membrane-bound nucleus, the DNA is sequestered inside the nucleus. Hence, the nucleus is the site for DNA replication in eukaryotes.
While there are many similarities, the replication of prokaryotes and eukaryotes involve differences. These differences in DNA replication reflect the contrast between prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells. The average eukaryotic cell has 25 times more DNA than a prokaryotic cell. In prokaryotic cells, there is only one point of origin, replication occurs in two opposing directions at the same time, and takes place in the cell cytoplasm.
Stage of Cell Division. In prokaryotes, DNA replication is the first step of cell division, which is primarily through binary fission or budding. In eukaryotes, cell division is a comparatively complex process, and DNA replication occurs during the synthesis (S) phase of the cell cycle. The replication occurs in the cytoplasm of the cell. In case of eukaryotes, the organisms that contain a membrane-bound nucleus, the DNA is sequestered inside the nucleus. Hence, the nucleus is the site for DNA replication in eukaryotes.