That's a pretty peculiar question because a pickaxe is not really something we use in gardening. What we use in gardening is a tool called a mattock. Instead of a pickaxe which would actually have an axe on this end we have something that has a pick with a hoe combination. Now this is a pretty aggressive tool and maybe what you're really asking for is how to de-compact your soil. 
A mattock /ˈmaetək/ ˈmætək is a versatile hand, tool used for digging and, chopping similar to the. pickaxe The handle of a mattock fits into the oval eye in the head, and is fixed by striking the head end of the handle against a solid surface, such as a tree stump, a rock or firm ground.
The vertical axe blade of a cutter mattock should be used to cut through roots and the adze to remove earth. To break up or dislodge objects such as rocks in the ground where you are working then the pick section on a pick mattock should be used. There is a mattock for all types of ground, however it is important that you select the correct type of mattock and use the correct part of the head for the type of ground you are working on. The adze should never be used on hard ground, rocks or for chopping roots.
1 The head of a pick mattock combines a pick and an adze. 2  It is one of the best tools for grubbing in hard soils and rocky terrain. 3  The adze may be sharpened, but the pick rarely is; it is generally squared rather than beveled. 4  The head of a cutter mattock combines an axe with an adze. The handle of a mattock fits into the oval eye in the head, and is fixed by striking the head end of the handle against a solid surface, such as a tree stump, a rock or firm ground.
A mattock /ˈmaetək/ ˈmætək is a versatile hand, tool used for digging and, chopping similar to the. Pickaxe it has a long, handle and a stout, head which combines an axe blade and an (adze cutter) mattock or a pick and an (adze pick). mattock The handle of a mattock fits into the oval eye in the head, and is fixed by striking the head end of the handle against a solid surface, such as a tree stump, a rock or firm ground.
The pick mattock is a pick and adze combination tool. An adze is actually used mostly in forming and carving wood but has evolved with the pick to become the ideal digging, landscaping, and gardening tool. The pickaxe is commonly spelled as “pickax”, or “pick axe”, and is a different tool in and of itself. The term “pick” may be associated with mattock or axe or left as an entirely separate tool.
Noun. 1. mattock-a kind of pick that is used for digging; has a flat blade set at right angles to the handle. pickax, pickaxe, pick-a heavy iron tool with a wooden handle and a curved head that is pointed on both ends; they used picks and sledges to break the rocks. Translations. [ˈmaetək] ˈmætək → n azadon. azadón m
The cutter mattock is a combination between an axe and an adze. This tool is ideal when attempting to cut through roots because of the axe blade and the pry features of the adze. The head of the cutter mattock has an axe on one side and an adze on the other. The pickaxe is commonly spelled as “pickax”, or “pick axe”, and is a different tool in and of itself. The term “pick” may be associated with mattock or axe or left as an entirely separate tool.
A cutter mattock features a vertical axe blade on one side of the head and a horizontal adze blade on the other. The vertical axe blade can be used for cutting through roots in the ground, whist the adze is used to dig or hoe the earth. The pick mattock head features a pick on one side and a horizontal adze blade on the other.
A mattock has a shaft, typically made of wood, which is about 3–4 ft (0.9–1.2 m) long. The head comprises two ends, opposite each other, and separated by a central eye; a mattock head typically weighs 3–7 lb (1.4–3.2 kg). The handle of a mattock fits into the oval eye in the head, and is fixed by striking the head end of the handle against a solid surface, such as a tree stump, a rock or firm ground.