On May 18, 1980, large clouds of ash from the eruption of Mount St. Helens brought more than 500 million tons of ash to parts of Washington, Idaho and Montana. The longest distance recorded of the ash fallout was nearly 2,000 miles away from the volcano in the state of Oklahoma! The ash itself caused many problems in the hardest hit regions downwind from Mount St. Helens and around the Northwest.
1 Mount St. Helens was reduced by over 1,300 feet in height. 2  Volcanic ash fell as far as 930 miles away (see ash fall map). 3  The debris avalanche and mudflows buried the Toutle valley to a depth of almost 50 meters. 4  The eruption lasted for 9 hours. Mount St. Helens erupted at 8:32 a.m. PST on May 18, 1980, reminding Pacific Northwest residents and people around the world of the powerful and uncontrollable forces of nature. Physical effects of the eruption were experienced in dozens of U.S. states, with ash falling as far away as Oklahoma.
(Left) The advancing ash cloud from Mount St. Helens, as seen from the ground in eastern Washington.During the 9 hours of vigorous eruptive activity, about 540 million tons of ash fell over an area of more than 22,000 square miles. Destructive mudflows and debris flows began within minutes of the onset of the May 18 eruption, as the hot pyroclastic materials in the debris avalanche, lateral blast, and ash falls melted snow and glacial ice on the upper slopes of Mount St. Helens.
5. Clouds of ash from Mount St. Helens are shown over the airport in Ephrata, Wash., a day after the blast. Ephrata is about 100 miles northeast of the volcano as the crow flies. Clouds of ash reached as far away as western Montana. 
Mount St. Helens erupted on May 18, 1980. The volcano, located in southwestern Washington, used to be a beautiful symmetrical cone about 9,600 feet (3,000 meters) above sea level. The eruption, which removed the upper 1,300 feet (396 meters) of the summit, left a horseshoe-shaped crater and a barren wasteland. 
On May 18, 1980 at 8:32 a.m., the earth rumbles underneath Mount St. Helens, a peak in Skamania County in southwestern Washington. Moments later an explosion blasts away a side of the mountain in a major volcanic eruption. The volcano causes the deaths of 57 people. Steam and Ash. The first visual signs of Mount St. Helens’ volcanic activity in 123 years occurred on March 27, 1980, when a steam explosion and crater opening occurred at the mountain’s peak. For the next few weeks steam and ash periodically vented out of the growing crater.
Another area of thick ash deposition, however, occurred near Ritzville in eastern Washington, about 195 miles from Mount St. Helens, where nearly 2 inches of ash blanketed the ground, more than twice as much as at Yakima, which is only about half as far from the volcano. Destructive mudflows and debris flows began within minutes of the onset of the May 18 eruption, as the hot pyroclastic materials in the debris avalanche, lateral blast, and ash falls melted snow and glacial ice on the upper slopes of Mount St. Helens.
This volcano is well known for its ash explosions and pyroclastic flows. Mount St. Helens is most notorious for its catastrophic eruption on May 18, 1980, at 8:32 a.m. PDT, the deadliest and most economically destructive volcanic event in the history of the United States. Mount St. Helens is 34 miles (55 km) west of Mount Adams, in the western part of the Cascade Range. These sister and brother volcanic mountains are approximately 50 miles (80 km) from Mount Rainier, the highest of Cascade volcanoes.
On May 18, 1980 a major volcanic eruption occurred at Mount St. Helens, a volcano located in the state of Washington, United States. The eruption (a VEI 5 event) was the only significant one to occur in the contiguous 48 U.S. states since the 1915 eruption of Lassen Peak in California. Everyone in the quiet zone could see the huge ash cloud that was sent skyward from St. Helens' northern foot. The near-supersonic lateral blast, loaded with volcanic debris, caused devastation as far as 19 miles (31 km) from the volcano.