It is associated with several accessory digestive organs, such as the pancreas, liver and gall bladder (Figure 11.1 (B)). The walls of the GIT have a fairly common substructure (Figure 11.2 (A) and (B)) and its interior is called the lumen.
The mucous membrane-and smooth muscle-lined tube of the digestive system through which food passes, in which digestion takes place, and from which wastes are eliminated; it extends from the mouth to the anus and includes the pharynx, esophagus, stomach, and small and large intestines. aka-digestive tract, gut tube.
The digestive tract is the tube that extends from the mouth to the anus, and it consists of the (1) mouth, (2) pharynx, (3) esophagus, (4) stomach, (5) small intestine, and (6) large intestine. The accessory organs include the (1) teeth, (2) tongue, (3) salivary glands, (4) liver, (5) gallbladder, and (6) pancreas.
Accessory Organs. The salivary glands, liver, gallbladder, and pancreas are not part of the digestive tract, but they have a role in digestive activities and are considered accessory organs.
I nnervated: autonomic nervous system. Longitudinal and circular muscle layer orient at right angles to each other. Longitudinal. 1  contracts longitudinal muscles it shortens and dilates. 2  contract circular muscles the lumen constricts and the organ lengthens.
Accessory organs The accessory organs include the – (1) teeth, – (2) tongue, – (3) salivary glands, – (4) liver, – (5) gallbladder, and – (6) pancreas. Figure 26.1Illustration showing the design and structures of the digestive system.
6 ORGANS OF THE DIGESTIVE SYSTEMMOUTH The mouth (oral cavity, or buccal cavity) is the area posterior the lips, anterior to the pharynx, medial to the cheeks, inferior to the palate, and superior to the tongue. MOUTH – The anterior region of the mouth is the vestibule.
1 Digestive System The process of chemically and physically breaking down foods into simpler forms that can be absorbed is called digestion. Digestive System • The digestive system can be divided into two major parts: – (1) the alimentary canal (gastrointestinal, or digestive tract) and – (2) the accessory organs.
The organs of the digestive system are divided into two main groups, the gastrointestinal (GI) tract (alimentary canal) and the accessory organs. List the organs of the gastrointestinal tract. The organs of the GI tract include the mouth, esophagus, stomach, small intestine, and large intestine.
It is lined with a serous membrane, the peritoneum, and contains the following organs: stomach with the lower portion of the esophagus, small and large intestines (except sigmoid colon and rectum), liver, gallbladder, spleen, pancreas, adrenal glands, kidneys, and ureters.