The population had reduced to 4,229 at the 2011 Census. Hunstanton is an east coast town but faces west and is one of the few places on the east coast in England where the sun can be seen to set over the sea. The river begins in the grounds of Old Hunstanton Park which surrounds the old moated hall, the ancestral home of the Le Strange family. Old Hunstanton village is of prehistoric origin and is situated near to the head of Peddars Way. In 1970, evidence of Neolithic settlement was found.
Located in Old Hunstanton near the sand dunes is the Hunstanton RNLI station where volunteers regularly launch their craft from Old Hunstanton beach to keep visitors safe from harm. Hunstanton and Heacham are among the list of popular West Norfolk holiday spots which attract families and couples alike. There is a wide choice of high quality accommodation on the West Norfolk coast to suit all needs.
Display specific location Select to locate on the map. The above topographic map of Hunstanton and the surrounding area has been derived from satellite mapping. The topographic data has been illuminated by a light source corresponding to the position of the sun at mid afternoon in summer. Of course some of these will be at long distances from Hunstanton and those far flung spots are provided on the ‘nearest’ tables. If you are traveling to other cities or towns near Hunstanton you will also find weather forecasts for those locations below.
detailed map of Hunstanton and near places. Welcome to the Hunstanton google satellite map! This place is situated in Norfolk County, East Anglia, England, United Kingdom, its geographical coordinates are 52° 57' 0 North, 0° 30' 0 East and its original name (with diacritics) is Hunstanton. See Hunstanton photos and images from satellite below, explore the aerial photographs of Hunstanton in United Kingdom. Hunstanton hotels map is available on the target page linked above.
The coastal cliffs include the type section of the Hunstanton Formation of lower reddish limestone which was laid down during the Lower Cretaceous. This is topped by a white chalk layer from the Upper Cretaceous epoch. The river begins in the grounds of Old Hunstanton Park which surrounds the old moated hall, the ancestral home of the Le Strange family. Old Hunstanton village is of prehistoric origin and is situated near to the head of Peddars Way. In 1970, evidence of Neolithic settlement was found.
Darren, United Kingdom. location, cleanliness, friendly, top quality. Lynn, United Kingdom. The Burleigh is a friendly, family run guesthouse in Hunstanton with a fantastic location in North Norfolk, very close to the town centre, theatre, sea front, promenade and gardens. We are ideally located for Peddars Way, the RSPB reserves at Titchwell, Snettisham and Holme as well as numerous other local attractions. The Marine Hotel is located in the seaside town of Hunstanton. It offers coastal views, a bar/restaurant and free parking.
IDENTIFICATION OF A QUESTION Theory The original settlement of Hunstanton is now called old Hunstanton. At one time old Hunstanton was called Hunstanton and the new development of main town was called new Hunstanton over time this changed to old Hunstanton and Hunstanton. A light house and the ruins of St. Edmund's Chapel, built in 1272 are now in old Hunstanton. Other.......... This question helps me find out about where people have heard most about Hunstanton from and also where people most here about Hunstanton from. 5. How do you rate the following characteristics of Hunstanton Quality of beach/sea.... Access for disabled people.....
Hunstanton is a place with a very small population in the state/region of Norfolk, England which is located in the continent/region of Europe. Cities, towns and places near Hunstanton include Heacham, Snettisham, Dersingham and Terrington Saint Clement. 
Tornado Alley is located in the central U.S. as that is where warm, moist air from the Gulf of Mexico meets with cool air from Canada and dry … air from the Rocky Mountains. Answer: Location, … location, location.. In other words, the area the property is located in is so important, everything else you could say about it hardly matters. This humorous retort has given rise to many variations. 34 people found this useful.