Best Answer: RNA is made of RNA nucleotides. Each nucleotide has a sugar (ribose), a phosphate, and a nitrogen base (adenine, uracil, cytosine, or guanine). The overall shape of a nucleotide is kind of like an L. Source(s): http://www.austincc.edu/muzos/RNA%201%20...
1. Building blocks of RNA. The basic components of RNA are the same than for DNA (see the DNA page) with two major differences. The pyrimidyne base uracil replace thymine and ribose replace deoxyribose (see the sugars, purines and pyrimidines pages). Adenine and Uracil for a base pair formed by two hydrogen bonds. 2. 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The building blocks of DNA and RNA are nucleotides. In DNA the nucleotides include cytosine, guanine, adenine and thymine. In RNA the nucleotides include cytosine, guanine, adenine and uracil. Source(s): Biology Major
Nucleotides Nucleotides are the monomers, building blocks, of nucleic acids (DNA and RNA). Each nucleotide includes three components: a phosphate, a sugar, and a nitrogenous b … ase. The phosphate is bonded to the sugar through phosphodiester bonds and makes up the backbone of the molecule. There are four available nitrogenous bases in a DNA's nucleotides: adenine, thymine, guanine, and cytosine. RNA nucleotides feature the same bases with the exception of uracil, which replaces thymine.
The building block of DNA is called the nucleotide, which is composed of a nitrogenous base (adenine, guanine, cytosine, or thymine), a five-carbon sugar (deoxyribose in DNA), … and one to three phosphate groups. + 16 others found this useful. Kenneth Huynh. There are four available nitrogenous bases in a DNA's nucleotides: adenine, thymine, guanine, and cytosine. RNA nucleotides feature the same bases with the exception of uracil, which replaces thymine.
The building block of DNA is called the nucleotide, which is composed of a nitrogenous base (adenine, guanine, cytosine, or thymine), a five-carbon sugar (deoxyribose in DNA), … and one to three phosphate groups. The phosphate is the same in DNA and RNA, but the sugar can be a ribose (for RNA) or a deoxyribose (for DNA). The latter is a ribose without  de-  one oxygen  -oxy- . There are four available nitrogenous bases in a DNA's nucleotides: adenine, thymine, guanine, and cytosine.
Confidence votes 206. Nucleotides Nucleotides are the monomers, building blocks, of nucleic acids (DNA and RNA). Each nucleotide includes three components: a phosphate, a sugar, and a nitrogenous base. The phosphate is bonded to the sugar through phosphodiester bonds and makes up the backbone of the molecule. The phosphate is the same in DNA and RNA, but the sugar can be a ribose (for RNA) or a deoxyribose (for DNA). The latter is a ribose without  de-  one oxygen  -oxy- . There are four available nitrogenous bases in a DNA's nucleotides: adenine, thymine, guanine, and cytosine.