March 20, 2012 | 1:44 pm. Sixteen years ago today, Erik and Lyle Menendez were convicted of murdering their parents. Their crimes were bloody, and the trials that followed -- with their often gruesome details -- created a national sensation. 
By the time of their trial, there was no question that Lyle and Erik Menendez had killed their parents. The question was why: specifically, whether greed alone had driven them to shoot their parents in cold blood. 
March 20, 1996 | By Vincent J. Schodolski, Tribune Staff Writer. LOS ANGELES — A jury Wednesday found Lyle and Erik Menendez guilty of first-degree murder in the 1989 shotgun killings of their parents, a verdict that could bring death sentences for the two brothers. 
LOS ANGELES, March 20— Erik and Lyle Menendez were convicted today of murdering their wealthy parents by shotgun blasts as they watched television in their Beverly Hills mansion in 1989. These special circumstances in the murders of Jose E. Menendez, 45, and his wife, Kitty, 47, mean the brothers may be subject to the death penalty under California law. The brothers have been in jail for six years.
Pamela Bozanich, the chief prosecutor, wanted the Menendez brothers to be found guilty and to get the death penalty. Leslie Abramson was representing Erik and Jill Lansing was Lyle's lawyer. As flamboyant a lawyer as Abramson was, Lansing and her team were equally quiet and sharply focused. On March 8, Lyle Menendez was arrested near the family home, followed by the arrest of Erik who returned from a tennis match in Israel and turned himself in to police. The brothers were remanded without bail. They each hired their own lawyers. Leslie Abramson was Erik's lawyer and Gerald Chaleff was Lyle's
By Charles Montaldo. In 1989, brothers Lyle and Erik Menendez used a 12-guage shotgun to murder their parents, Jose and Kitty Menendez. The trial received national attention because it had all the elements of a Hollywood movie-wealth, incest, parricide, infidelity and murder. On March 8, Lyle Menendez was arrested near the family home, followed by the arrest of Erik who returned from a tennis match in Israel and turned himself in to police. The brothers were remanded without bail. They each hired their own lawyers. Leslie Abramson was Erik's lawyer and Gerald Chaleff was Lyle's
Background [edit]. The Menendez brothers' father, Jose, was born in Havana, Cuba, and moved to the United States when he was 16 years old, following the upheaval of the Cuban Revolution. While attending Southern Illinois University, he met Mary Louise Kitty. Andersen. On July 2, 1996, Judge Weisberg sentenced Lyle and Erik Menendez to life in prison without the possibility of parole. Judge Weisberg sentenced the brothers to consecutive sentences for the murders and the charge of conspiracy to commit murder.
Erik Menendez and brother Lyle were found guilty of murdering their parents, Jose and Kitty Menendez. The therapist did share the Menendez's brutal crimes with his girlfriend, and she later told the authorities. The brothers were eventually arrested in 1990 for the murder of their parents. Some of the therapist's tapes were allowed to be used as evidence in Erik and Lyle's criminal trials.