The thick lava cannot travel far down the slope of the volcano before it cools. Composite volcanoes are usually found at destructive plate margins. Examples of composite volcanoes include Mount Fuji (Japan), Mount St Helens (USA) and Mount Pinatubo (Philippines). Shield Volcanoes. Shield volcanoes are low with gently sloping sides and are formed from layers of lava. Composite Volcanoes. Composite volcanoes, sometimes known as strato volcanoes, are steep sided cones formed from layers of ash and [lava] flows. The eruptions from these volcanoes may be a pyroclastic flow rather than a flow of lava. A pyroclastic flow is a superheated mixture of hot steam, ash, rock and dust.
Occuring in chains, composite volcanoes are most notably found in the Ring of Fire, located i … n the Pacific rim. Other instances of composite volcanoes include Mount Rainier (Washington State), Mount Vesuvius (Italy), Mount St. Helens (Washington State), Mount Hood (Oregon), and Mount Shasta (California). Composite volcanoes are usually found at subduction zones, but can occasionally be found in spreading zones such as the East African Rift.
Composite volcanoes. Characteristics of a composite volcano. 1  Composite volcanoes are made up of alternating layers of lava and ash (other volcanoes just consist of lava). 2  They are usually found at destructive [destructive boundaries: The boundary of two plates which are moving towards each other. 1 They are usually found at destructive [destructive boundaries: The boundary of two plates which are moving towards each other. ] 2  or compressional boundaries. 3  The eruptions from these volcanoes may be a pyroclastic flow rather than a lava flow.
Composite Volcano. A composite volcano forms in subduction zones when a crustal plate is forced into the mantle and begins to melt. Andesite, dacite and rhyolite lavas are the primary types of lava that form these volcanoes. Eruptions on the volcanoes often alternate between tephra and lava flows. Subduction zone volcanoes. Geologists often use the term stratovolcanoes to describe the mountains that form in subduction zones. The volcanoes form on the continental side of a subduction zone.
Scientists recognize four main types of volcanoes: stratovolcanoes, shield volcanoes, cinder cones, and ashflow calderas. Stratovolcanoes. Stratovolcanoes, or composite volcanoes, get their name from the different layers, or strata, of ash and lava that form them. Most stratovolcanoes are irregularly shaped mountains formed by material ejected from both a central vent and other vents on the sides of the mountain. 
Composite volcanoes (also called stratovolcanoes) are much more explosive than shield volcanoes, the other important type of volcano. The large and generally cone-shaped volcanoes form along plate boundaries called subduction zones where one of the Earth's plates moves below another. 
1 Composite volcanoes are made up of alternating layers of lava and ash (other volcanoes just consist of lava). 2  They are usually found at destructive [destructive boundaries: The boundary of two plates which are moving towards each other. 1 They are usually found at destructive [destructive boundaries: The boundary of two plates which are moving towards each other. ] 2  or compressional boundaries. 3  The eruptions from these volcanoes may be a pyroclastic flow rather than a lava flow.
Famous composite volcanoes include Mount St Helens, Mount Rainier, Krakatoa, Mount Tambora, Mount Fuji, Mount Unzen, Mount Pinatubo, Mount Etna, Mount Vesuvius, Santorini, Mou … nt Kilimanjaro, Mount Pelee, Soufriere Soufrière, hills, and in recent, Years. eyjafjallajoekull eyjafjallajökull Composite volcanoes are usually found at subduction zones, but can occasionally be found in spreading zones such as the East African Rift.
Composite volcanoes most often are found near subduction zones.  They can be found at either oceanic-oceanic convergent plate  boundaries, oceanic-continental plate boundari … es, or  continental-continental plate boundaries. They are especially  prevalent in the Pacific Ring of Fire. Composite volcanoes are usually found at subduction zones, but can occasionally be found in spreading zones such as the East African Rift.
A stratovolcano, also known as a composite volcano, is a conical volcano built up by many layers (strata) of hardened lava, tephra, pumice, and volcanic ash. 