Sewage treatment may also be referred to as wastewater treatment, although the latter is a broader term which can also be applied to purely industrial wastewater. 
Bacteria are categorized by the way that they obtain oxygen. In wastewater treatment, there are three types of bacteria used to treat the waste that comes into the treatment plant: aerobic, anaerobic and facultative. Aerobic bacteria are used in most new treatment plants in an aerated environment. This means that there is dissolved oxygen available for the respiration of the bacteria. They use the free oxygen in the water to degrade the pollutants in the incoming wastewater into energy they can use for growth and reproductio
Sewage Treatment and Bacteria. Bacteria may be aerobic, anaerobic or facultative. Aerobic bacteria require oxygen for life support whereas anaerobes can sustain life without oxygen. Facultative bacteria have the capability of living either in the presence or in the absent of oxygen.
NATURAL TREATMENT PROCESS. Biological Products. The role of bacteria in the sewage treatment process. One area of sewage treatment that is not well understood is the bacterial decomposition process. Bacteria may be aerobic, anaerobic or facultative. Aerobic bacteria require oxygen for life support whereas anaerobes can sustain life without oxygen. Facultative bacteria have the capability of living either in the presence or in the absent of oxygen. In the typical sewage treatment plant, oxygen is added to improve the functioning of aerobic bacteria and to assist them in maintaining superiority over the anaerobes.
Microorganisms. Microorganisms are present in sewage water treatment vats well throughout the entire process. [2] Microorganisms encompassing: bacteria, protozoa, and viruses, in the treatment vats, exist and grow in the sewage water and are transferred throughout the vats with the movement of sewage water. [3] Some microorganisms are used during the secondary treatment to remove pollutants. 
The fate of three groups of microorganisms — bacteria, protozoa, and viruses — in wastewater is an important consideration in onsite sewage treatment and disposal systems (hereafter referred to as septic systems). 
Bacteria in activated sludge from a wastewater treatment plant. It is a remarkable fact that we fully depend on microbes to treat or sewage water. In every wastewater treatment plant, from the simplest to the most modern ones, the essential activity is biological and is mainly carried out by bacteria.
XIII-Water-C-Sewage Treatment-1 SEWAGE TREATMENT Sewage is a mixture of domestic and industrial wastes. It is more than 99% water, but the remainder contains some ions, suspended solids and harmful bacteria that must be removed before the water is released into the sea. 
Description. A description of the sewage treatment process. Bacteria is added to the sewage, and oxygen is forced through the mixture. The bacteria consume all the food and nutrients in the sewage. The mixture is then left in still tanks where the bacteria settle to form sludge. The remaining water is almost pure and can be returned to a river.