Teutonic Meaning: The name Allison is a Teutonic baby name. In Teutonic the meaning of the name Allison is: Of holy fame. American Meaning: The name Allison is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Allison is: Of holy fame.
Alison or Allison is a given name, usually a feminine name in English-speaking countries. It was originally a medieval French nickname for Alis, old form of Alice derived with the suffix-on or-son sometimes used in the former French nicknames such as Jeanson (little Jean) or Pierson (little Pierre). Allison also has separate roots as a family name, which is of disputed meaning. When the surname Allison is used as a given name, it is traditionally feminine. In countries including Brazil, Portugal and Indonesia, Alison and variant forms are also used as masculine given names.
Allison is a very prominent first name for females (#228 out of 4276, Top 5%) and also a very prominent last name for both adults and children (#590 out of 150436, Top 1%). (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the baby name popularity of Allison for girls. Below is a charted analysis of the usage of the girl name Allison and affiliated names. Alice (#97 last year) , Allie (#257) , Alison (#289) , Allyson (#329) , Alyson (#595) , Alissa (#855) , Alisha (#895) , Alisa (#936) , Alisson (#938) , Allisson and Allyssa are the popular related forms of Allison (#38 last year) .
Allison is also a spelling variant of the English, French, and Scottish Alison. Allison is very popular as a baby girl name. The name grew in popularity from the 1940s up to the 1990s; prior to that, it was of only infrequent use. At the modest height of its usage in 1995, 0.423% of baby girls were named Allison. It was #34 in rank the
[ 3 syll. al-li-son, all-is-on ] The baby girl name Allison is also used as a boy name, though it is more commonly a girl name. It is pronounced AE L-ih-SahN †. Allison's origin is Germanic, and its use, English, French, and Scottish. Allison is a form of Alice. Allison is very popular as a baby girl name. The name grew in popularity from the 1940s up to the 1990s; prior to that, it was of only infrequent use. At the modest height of its usage in 1995, 0.423% of baby girls were named Allison.
The name Allison is of German origin, and it means Son of the Noble One . It's a name commonly given to both boys and girls. Allison Janney is an actress with the most prominent portion of her career being from 1984 to present. 
Allison /al-li-son/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name (also used less widely as boys' name Allison) is of Old German derivation, and Allison means noble, exalted. Allison is an alternate spelling of Alice (Old German). Below is a charted analysis of the usage of the girl name Allison and affiliated names. Alice (#97 last year) , Allie (#257) , Alison (#289) , Allyson (#329) , Alyson (#595) , Alissa (#855) , Alisha (#895) , Alisa (#936) , Alisson (#938) , Allisson and Allyssa are the popular related forms of Allison (#38 last year) .
The word Allison means of noble sort or noble. It can also mean Honest and True. These definitions hardly seem to captivate the true person behind the name normally. Allison, in most cases, is always kind, and beautiful. She's a bit stubborn at times, but these little things are the things that make you enjoy her company, and companionship all the more.
Allison is a variant spelling of Alison. The name Alison was originally a dimunitive of the Norman French name Alis, a form of the Old German origin name Alice. In French, it is common to add the suffix son meaning little to create a nickname. Allison has the diminutives (nicknames) Alley, Alli, Allie, Ally. Then just follow the diagram below. Just for fun, see the name Allison in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Allison in Nautical Flags page.
The name Alison was originally a dimunitive of the Norman French name Alis, a form of the Old German origin name Alice. In French, it is common to add the suffix son meaning little to create a nickname. Alice was considered a distinct name when it was revived in the 19th century. It is a form of Adelaide. Alison is a form of the name Alice. The name Alice is a form of an Old French spelling of a greatly contracted version of the German name Adalheidis (possibly Adalheidis to Adelaide to Adeliz to Alice or Adalheidis to Adelais to Aalis to Alice).