Much like any other type of vehicle maintenance service, the easiest and quickest way we have found to lower your average Midas transmission flush cost is to check the service center website before taking your vehicle in for service. We know that cash is tight in today’s economy, so we have compiled a list of the most pertinent information out there – the Midas transmission flush cost.
1 For example, CostHelper readers report paying $90-$378 for a transmission flush at a oil-and-lube or auto repair shop, at an average cost of $160; or $77-$295 at dealerships, at an average cost of $205; and a CostHelper reader in Nevada reported being charged $766 for a transmission fluid change on a Lamborghini Diablo. 1 Some experts recommend draining and refilling three times, so the fluid is completely changed. 2  Flushing a transmission with a pressurized machine can cost $125-$300 or more, and may include pushing a special cleaning compound through the system.
1 The average cost for a transmission fluid filter and fluid service is $89 to $159 for most cars and light trucks. 2  At Ray’s Garage in Creston, Ohio, the cost of a transmission flush is $139.99, while a transmission flush and filter change costs $219.99. 3  A transmission flush is recommended every 30,000 to 70,000 miles. 1 Midas Hawaii in Honolulu, Hawaii, offers transmission flush services for $144.99, which includes a test drive in addition to transmission fluid change.
1 Flushing a transmission with a pressurized machine can cost $125-$300 or more, and may include pushing a special cleaning compound through the system. 2  The power flush process typically replaces all of the transmission fluid, and can require 12-22 or more quarts. 1 Some experts recommend draining and refilling three times, so the fluid is completely changed. 2 
Tagged: 1 Thread(s). Quoted: 0 Post(s). Explain this: MIDAS oil and tranny fluid change cost. OK, first off, I had already bought my Mobil 1 oil, Mobil 1 filter and Mopar ATF+4 transmission fluid. I was going to do it myself but I have no access to anything up here in college at my apartment. So, why did it cost me $77 MIDAS is a rip off IMO. My oil change was $26 and my trans fuild change was $44, then tax. If a basic oil change(non-syn 5 qts of oil, filter) costs $19.99 why was mine more, plus I brought my own oil and filter? Then I have no idea about the trans change price.
More often than not, you can find specials and coupons for your Midas transmission flush just by taking a few minutes to check online first. No risk, great potential for reward! For store hours and to find a Midas Auto Service Center near you click on the logo below. We know that cash is tight in today’s economy, so we have compiled a list of the most pertinent information out there – the Midas transmission flush cost.
1 The average cost for a transmission fluid flush is $150 to $250 for most cars and up to $375 for lifetime fluids. 2  The average cost for a transmission fluid filter and fluid service is $89 to $159 for most cars and light trucks. 1 Midas Hawaii in Honolulu, Hawaii, offers transmission flush services for $144.99, which includes a test drive in addition to transmission fluid change.
1 AutoMD.com provides general how-to instructions and estimates the project as moderately difficult. 2  The main cost is the quarts of new transmission oil. 3  CostHelper readers report paying $40-$175 for do-it-yourself supplies, with an average of $90. 1 Some experts recommend draining and refilling three times, so the fluid is completely changed. 2  Flushing a transmission with a pressurized machine can cost $125-$300 or more, and may include pushing a special cleaning compound through the system.
Perhaps you’ve reached the manufacturer recommended mileage interval for a routine maintenance Midas transmission flush. Or maybe you checked your transmission fluid dipstick and came to the conclusion that your transmission fluid is deteriorating. We know that cash is tight in today’s economy, so we have compiled a list of the most pertinent information out there – the Midas transmission flush cost.