After the northern spotted owl was listed as a threatened species in 1990, it became a symbol for Endangered Species Act protections that harm local economies. Conservation groups won court-ordered logging cutbacks to protect owl habitat, and many Northwest towns relying on the timber industry have yet to fully recover. Feds to consider endangered species listing for spotted owl. A northern spotted owl named Obsidian by U.S. Forest Service employees, sits in a tree in the Deschutes National Forest near Camp Sherman, Ore., in 2003.
The northern spotted owl and Mexican spotted owl subspecies are listed as threatened in the United States under the Endangered Species Act (ESA), which is administered by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS). The California spotted owl is not considered to be threatened nor endangered by the USFWS. The spotted owl is similar in appearance to the barred owl but has cross-shaped markings on the underparts, whereas the barred owl is alternately barred on the breast and streaked on the belly. Barred owls are larger and grayer than spotted owls.
There are a few owls, like the spotted and oriental bay owls, that are endangered of extinction. Many owls have very few predators, but they all have one predator that kills t … hem all...us. Many hunters shoot them them down illegaly. 
The northern spotted owl was listed under the Endangered Species Act in 1990 and was the center of controversy in forest management in the early 1990s. The spotted owl was at the center of attention as Clinton signed the Northwest Forest Plan in 1994, which intended to provide wood products and protect the owl. Northern spotted owls are a medium sized brown owl characterized by a dark brown face with small white spots, and a round face that lacks ear tuffs. They have concentrated circles of dark brown around each dark brown eye.
The spotted owl (Strix occidentalis) is a species of true owl. It is a resident species of old-growth forests in western North America, where it nests in tree holes, old bird of prey nests, or rock crevices. The spotted owl is similar in appearance to the barred owl but has cross-shaped markings on the underparts, whereas the barred owl is alternately barred on the breast and streaked on the belly. Barred owls are larger and grayer than spotted owls.
There are a few owls, like the spotted and oriental bay owls, that are endangered of extinction. Many owls have very few predators, but they all have one predator that kills t … hem all...us. Many hunters shoot them them down illegaly. Other times, they fly low on the streets at night time and get hit by cars. The spotted owl is a habitat specialist and only lives in old-growth forests. Because of logging practices, the amount of old-growth forests has declined, and with it, the spotted owl
June 26, 1990: Spotted owl is listed as threatened under the Endangered Species Act. 1991: A federal judge issues an injunction that shuts down federal timber sales on most westside forests in Oregon and Washington. 
The northern spotted owl (Strix occidentalis caurina; Cahto: bisbintc) is one of three spotted owl subspecies. A western North American bird in the family Strigidae, genus Strix, it is a medium-sized dark brown owl sixteen to nineteen inches in length and one to one and one sixth pounds. The northern spotted owl primarily inhabits old growth forests in the northern part of its range (Canada to southern Oregon) and landscapes with a mix of old and younger forest types in the southern part of its range (Klamath region and California).
The northern spotted owl population is in drastic decline in Canada and the U.S., despite significant efforts to save it. In the past, experts estimate there were 500 spotted owl pairs living in southwestern B.C. Today, only about a dozen remain in the province, largely due to loss of habitat. These two threats have reduced the spotted owl population by about forty percent in the past four decades. Spotted owl chicks. Creative commons photo courtesy of USFWS Headquarters/Flickr. The barred owl is native to North America, so it isn't an invasive species per se.