1 Get inspired. 2  Use your surroundings to find your passion. 3  If you're on a beach in Florida, you may find that your new passion is shell collecting; if you're touring the Louvre in Paris, you may find that your new passion is fine art. 4  Don’t rely on your surroundings to do the work for you. 5. Think about what you love to do. Take a look at your life and see if you're already doing something that you love -- but just not doing it very often. Figuring out what you really love to do and channeling it in a productive way that turns it into a passion can help you explore your heart's desires.
You see passion is not something you find like an apartment, a new restaurant or a great pair of shoes. Discovering your passion is an evolutionary and unique process. It's even possible to approach a mundane job with even more enthusiasm. It's important that you don't underestimate the work you do, despite how passionless it can feel at times. Avoid confusing passion for a career with your purpose in life. So relax.
Even better, I am engaging my other passions too. So if you’re struggling to find your passion, even after trying what feels like doing everything, I encourage you to do this: sit down, open your journal, pour a cup of tea, and try to remember your passions. For the past three years, I’ve been in the throes of a quarter life crisis. Just a few months into my first cubicle-bound job, I had the life-altering realization that most everyone comes to eventually: I’m going to work a job every day for the next 40+ of my life.
1 Use your surroundings to find your passion. 2  If you're on a beach in Florida, you may find that your new passion is shell collecting; if you're touring the Louvre in Paris, you may find that your new passion is fine art. 3  Don’t rely on your surroundings to do the work for you. 5. Think about what you love to do. Take a look at your life and see if you're already doing something that you love -- but just not doing it very often. Figuring out what you really love to do and channeling it in a productive way that turns it into a passion can help you explore your heart's desires.
If you really want to find your passion, then you'll have to test yourself and step out of your comfort zone to find the thing that really appeals to you. Here are some things to try: 1  Try an extreme activity, such as bungee jumping, sky diving, or zip-lining. 5. Think about what you love to do. Take a look at your life and see if you're already doing something that you love -- but just not doing it very often. Figuring out what you really love to do and channeling it in a productive way that turns it into a passion can help you explore your heart's desires.
“Don’t worry about what the world needs. Ask what makes you come alive and do that, because what the world needs is people who have come alive.” ~Howard Thurman. For the past three years, I’ve been in the throes of a quarter life crisis. Just a few months into my first cubicle-bound job, I had the life-altering realization that most everyone comes to eventually: I’m going to work a job every day for the next 40+ of my life.
In order to find your passion, you have to know yourself. If you don't know yourself, three bad things will happen to you: you will not be with the right person (if that is a desire); you will not be in the right line of work; and you will not be happy. All my life I have asked the question, What do want to do. What is your true passion.. I am now 60 with a host of successes in computer systems most of your will never see. Perhaps, one you use every day, is using your ATM card to buy gas or groceries. I was part of that 3 person team in 1984.
- Passionless, Alabama. The career advice I have always heard is, Do something you love and you will be successful.. My problem is that I am 26 years old and I have a job that is okay but I don't love it. Everyone tells me to find something I am passionate about but there must be something wrong with me because I have no clue what that is. It's even possible to approach a mundane job with even more enthusiasm. It's important that you don't underestimate the work you do, despite how passionless it can feel at times. Avoid confusing passion for a career with your purpose in life. So relax.
As Featured In…. Just Answer the 7 Questions below to reveal exactly how to discover your passions and create a life that you love!You'll receive a detailed analysis of your answers that will show you where you stand in living your passions AND receive instructions for how to take The Passion Test! 1. 