Canceling the New World Mine. A United Nations committee has now designated Yellowstone National Park as a world heritage site in danger largely because a Canadian conglomerate wants to build a huge gold, silver and copper mine less than three miles from the park's borders. 
Breathtaking views of Hadrian's Wall. Joining the Great Barrier Reef and Yellowstone National Park as a designated UNESCO World Heritage Site, Hadrian’s Wall is one of England’s greatest landmarks. 
Yellowstone National Park, northwest-central United States, designated a UNESCO World Heritage site in 1978. Encyclopaedia Encyclopædia, Britannica. Inc Yellowstone National, park-northwest Central United, states designated A Unesco World heritage site in. 1978 
Since 1997. Mt Haynes and the Madison River. Yellowstone National Park is located in the northwest corner of Wyoming, and includes small areas of Montana and Idaho as well. In addition to its superb Rocky Mountain scenery, the park is one of the world’s principal wildlife preserves. It’s also the site of America’s greatest concentration of geysers and hot springs, which form a visible and spectacular link with the primeval forces of the Earth’s creation.
The park contains half of the world's geothermal features including over 300 geysers, the world's largest concentration. In addition to its geographical sites, Yellowstone is significant for its natural history; nearly 150 species of fossil plants have been discovered within the park. The following sites have been added to the United States' tentative list of inclusion on the World Heritage List. The tentative list for sites within the United States was last updated in 2008.
The first sites in the United States added to the list were Mesa Verde National Park and Yellowstone National Park, both at the Second Session of the World Heritage Committee, held in Washington, D.C. from September 5–8, 1978. The following sites have been added to the United States' tentative list of inclusion on the World Heritage List. The tentative list for sites within the United States was last updated in 2008.
It was the known as the first national park in the world. It was created on March 1, 1872 when United States President Ulysses S. Grant signed a law to create it. The name was taken from the Yellowstone River, which flows through the park. Yellowstone was made a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 1978. Yellowstone National Park is famous for its geysers and hot springs. The park contains about half the world's geysers. People have lived in the Yellowstone area for about 11,000 years. Some native Americans still lived there when the first people came from Europe came through in 1807/1808. John Colter, a trapper, came within the Lewis and Clark Expedition and visited a large area which was unknown to the western world at that time.
Yellowstone National Park [1] is a United States National Park and a UNESCO World Heritage Site. It was the world's first national park, set aside in 1872 to preserve the vast number of geysers, hot springs, and other thermal areas, as well as to protect the incredible wildlife and rugged beauty of the area. 1 Upper Geyser Basin. 2  Yellowstone, as a whole, possesses close to sixty percent of the world's geysers, and the Upper Geyser Basin is home to the largest numbers of this fragile feature found in the park, including the iconic Old Faithful geyser.
In 1995, the World Heritage Committee, with the agreement of the United States, placed Yellowstone National Park on its List of World Heritage in Danger in response to specific threats identified to the outstanding universal value of the park. All member nations of the World Heritage Convention voluntarily nominate their own sites embracing outstanding natural or cultural values. Member nations retain complete sovereignty over each site and over the operation of locations added to the World Heritage List.
Yellowstone National Park » Yellowstone World Heritage Report 2014 » Document List. Yellowstone was designated a World Heritage Site by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) in 1978. All member nations of the World Heritage Convention voluntarily nominate their own sites embracing outstanding natural or cultural values. Member nations retain complete sovereignty over each site and over the operation of locations added to the World Heritage List.