1. General: Written declaration documenting a fact or evidencing the result of a certification exercise. 2. Internet commerce: Electronic document or message that establishes the credentials of a party and authenticates a transaction. See also Digital Certificate. 3. Law: Official document attesting conformity with a legal requirement or the performance of an act, such as a certificate of compliance or a certificate of incorporation. 4. Securities: Document attesting to the holder's ownership of a security, such as a share c
Certificate. A physical document that declares a fact and that may be used to prove said fact. One of the most common types of certificates is a stock certificate, which gives the person or company listed a portion of ownership in a publicly-traded company. 
1.3 A document attesting ownership of an item or the fulfilment of legal requirements: a share certificate. More example sentences. 1  A share certificate documenting payment and ownership such as we know today was not issued but was instead entered in the company's share register.
Full Definition of CERTIFICATE. 1. : a document containing a certified statement especially as to the truth of something; specifically: a document certifying that one has fulfilled the requirements of and may practice in a field. 2. : something serving the same end as a certificate. 3. Definition of CERTIFICATE for Kids. 1. : a written or printed statement that is proof of some fact. 2. : a paper showing that a person has met certain requirements. 3. : a paper showing ownership.
In cryptography, a certificate authority or certification authority (CA) is an entity that issues digital certificates. A digital certificate certifies the ownership of a public key by the named subject of the certificate. 
vs. CRYPTOCARD BlackShield. A digital certificate is an electronic passport that allows a person, computer or organization to exchange information securely over the Internet using the public key infrastructure (PKI). A digital certificate may also be referred to as a public key certificate. 
A certificate authority (CA) is a trusted entity that issues electronic documents that verify a digital entity’s identity on the Internet. Certificates typically include the owner's public key, the expiration date of the certificate, the owner's name and other information about the public key owner. Operating systems (OSes) and browsers maintain lists of trusted CA root certificates to verify certificates that a CA has issued and signed.
In cryptography, a public key certificate (also known as a digital certificate or identity certificate) is an electronic document used to prove ownership of a public key. 
An attachment to an electronic message used for security purposes. The most common use of a digital certificate is to verify that a user sending a message is who he or she claims to be, and to provide the receiver with the means to encode a reply. An individual wishing to send an encrypted message applies for a digital certificate from a Certificate Authority (CA) .