PANDAS: Introduction. PANDAS: A rare disorder characterized by the association of a tic disorder or OCD (obsessive-compulsive disorder) with a streptococcal infection and neuropsychiatric symptoms. The symptoms can start suddenly and recovery is slow with frequent relapses. 
PANDAS is in part caused by an autoimmune response to a strep infection. Streptococcus is known to be associated with a number of immune-related disorders, including rheumatic fever, scarlet fever, and acute glomerulonephritis (a kidney disorder). PANDAS symptoms are similar to those of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD), attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), and motor or verbal tics. Symptoms tend to appear suddenly, and the recovery period is variable. Often the symptoms may worsen during streptococcal infections and improve in between
Overview. PANDAS is an acronym for Pediatric Autoimmune Neuropsychiatric Disorders Associated with Streptococcal Infections.. It describes the abrupt onset or worsening of symptoms in children who have obsessive-compulsive disorder or a tic disorder (i.e. 
PANDAS has not been validated as a disease entity; it is not listed as a diagnosis by the International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems (ICD) or the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM). The PANDAS hypothesis is controversial; whether it is a distinct entity differing from other cases of Tourette syndrome (TS)/OCD is debated.
Pediatric Autoimmune Neuropsychiatric Disorder Associated with Streptococcus (PANDAS) is the sudden, rapid-onset of obsessive compulsive behavior, as well as possible movement and behavioral symptoms, following a Streptococcus pyogenes (“Strep”) infection. 
PANDAS is hypothesized to be an autoimmune disorder that results in a variable combination of tics, obsessions, compulsions, and other symptoms that may be severe enough to qualify for diagnoses such as chronic tic disorder, OCD, and Tourette syndrome (TS or TD). The PANDAS hypothesis is controversial; whether it is a distinct entity differing from other cases of Tourette syndrome (TS)/OCD is debated.
A child may be diagnosed with PANDAS when: 1  Obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD) and/or tic disorders suddenly appear following a strep infection (such as strep throat or scarlet fever); or. 2  The symptoms of OCD or tic symptoms suddenly become worse following a strep infection. PANDAS is considered a pediatric disorder and typically first appears in childhood from age 3 to puberty. Reactions to strep infections are rare after age 12, but the investigators recognize that PANDAS could occur (rarely) among adolescents.
For the uninitiated, PANDAS is an acronym for pediatric autoimmune neuropsychiatric disorders associated with streptococcal infections. These disorders involve the sudden onset of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) or tics in children following a strep infection such as strep throat or scarlet fever. 
In addition to an OCD or tic disorder diagnosis, children may have other symptoms associated with exacerbations such as emotional lability, enuresis, anxiety, and deterioration in handwriting. In the PANDAS model, this abrupt onset is thought to be preceded by a strep throat infection. The PANDAS hypothesis is controversial; whether it is a distinct entity differing from other cases of Tourette syndrome (TS)/OCD is debated.