Yawning doesn't mean you're bored -- it means you're recharging your brain. 
Some reasons for dog yawning. When the beagle next door came under the fence to visit, he approached Cannon with a yawn -- likely saying I'm a beagle. . . I mean you no harm.. Or maybe it was anxiety being in Cannon's yard. 
Here are some reasonable explanations I’ve heard for yawning (though none has been proven): 1  The lungs are full of tiny little air sacs. 2  Yawning is associated with stretching of the muscles and joints and an increased heart rate. 3  Yawning could provide nonverbal communication to others that it is time to relax. 
Body language of yawning. Body language of yawning: It never seems to fail that you are in a meeting and the guy next to you yawns but does it covertly and the next thing that you know you too are yawning.
Answers. Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Yawning is a normal response to fatigue and drowsiness, but excessive yawning can be caused by a vasovagal reaction. This reaction is caused by the action of a nerve, called the vagus nerve, on the blood vessels. It may indicate a heart problem. Source(s): http://www.nlm.nih.gov/medlineplus/ency/... 
Body language of yawning and ancient cultures. Some ancient cultures believe that when men or women yawn the soul is trying to escape and the action of covering the mouth helps keep the soul from exiting the body. Body language of yawning: It never seems to fail that you are in a meeting and the guy next to you yawns but does it covertly and the next thing that you know you too are yawning.
Excessive yawning is defined as experiencing 1 to 4 yawns per minute over an extended period of time. Most doctors believe that yawning is triggered by a low level of oxygen in the blood. 
Yawning excessively is when the act of yawning occurs repeatedly or in close succession. When you yawn, your mouth opens and you take in a deep, long breath. Sometimes this is accompanied by a sigh. Yawning is a normal response by the body to drowsiness or fatigue. Yawning may also be triggered by observing someone else yawning. Yawning excessively may mean taking in this deep breath more often, generally more than a few times per minute. This can occur when you are tired, weary or drowsy. Some medications, such as those used to treat depression, anxiety or allergies, can cause excessive yawning. 
Yawning redirects here. For the fish species, see Yawning (fish) . A yawn is a reflex consisting of the simultaneous inhalation of air and the stretching of the eardrums, followed by an exhalation of breath. Yawning (oscitation) most often occurs in adults immediately before and after sleep, during tedious activities and as a result of its contagious quality.
Body language of yawning and being tired or hot. There are plenty of theories why men or women yawn and one of them is that their need to be an increase blood to the brain or to keep the temperature of the brain down (University of Albany 2007). Body language of yawning: It never seems to fail that you are in a meeting and the guy next to you yawns but does it covertly and the next thing that you know you too are yawning.