With few exceptions, to be exempt an employee must (a) be paid at least $23,600 per year ($455 per week), and (b) be paid on a salary basis, and also (c) perform exempt job duties. These requirements are outlined in the FLSA Regulations (promulgated by the U.S. Department of Labor). 
For non-exempt salaried employees, the employer must pay overtime if the employee works more than 40 hours. They may have to pay additional amounts if it is specified in the agreement that the salary is meant to be compensation for up to 45 hours. The employee's gross wages for the week, including overtime, would be $550 (the $500 salary plus $50 in overtime pay). Wisconsin law allows this method of overtime compensation for salaried, non-exempt employees, but federal law may not.
All employees, regardless of whether they are exempt or non-exempt, salaried or hourly, are required to take 8 hours unpaid every payroll period (i.e. they are paid 72 hours rather than 80). The only exceptions are if they use 8 hours of personal or vacation time, or report 80 hours of billable time. Salaried vs. non-salaried is not the same as exempt vs. non-exempt. If you are an exempt employee, according to FLSA, you are not to be docked if you worked any portion of the work day (including 1 minute). Many companies do not dock exempt employees at all. I’ve worked for such a company in the past.
However, if in addition to the salary, the exempt employee receives additional pay such as a commission or bonus, such additional pay can be docked, consistent with a written wage deduction authorization agreement-see DOL opinion letters FLSA2006-24 and FLSA2006-24NA. An employee who fits this exemption may be paid either a salary of at least $455 per week, or on an hourly basis with no premium for overtime work, i.e., straight-time pay for all hours worked, as long as the hourly rate is at least $27.63 per hour. Return to Businesses & Employers. Return to TWC Home.
To be exempt, the employee must meet certain requirements regarding job duties and -- excluding outside sales employees and teachers -- must be paid on a salary basis. Exempt employees must receive a salary of at least $455 per week. An exempt computer employee must receive a salary of $455 per week or at least $27.63 per hour. 
Salary Amount. Under the FLSA, salaried exempt employees must receive a minimum salary of $455 per week, as of the date of publication. Salaried nonexempt employees must receive no less than the federal minimum hourly wage of $7.25. The state may have a different minimum wage requirement. Overtime. If a salaried exempt employee works more than 40 hours per week, you do not have to pay him overtime. You may, however, give him additional compensation such as a bonus or extra time off. You must pay salaried nonexempt employees overtime at 1.5 times their regular pay rate if they work more than 40 hours for the week
Example: A non-exempt employee is paid a salary of $500 per week, and works 50 hours in a given week. Since the agreement is just that the employee will be paid a $500 salary, that sum would cover any number of hours worked. The regular rate for this week is the salary ($500) divided by the 50 hours worked, or $10.00. The employee's gross wages for the week, including overtime, would be $550 (the $500 salary plus $50 in overtime pay). Wisconsin law allows this method of overtime compensation for salaried, non-exempt employees, but federal law may not.
Salaried nonexempt employees receive a salary rate for a fixed number of hours. However, when they exceed the fixed number of hours and work more than 40 hours in a week, they receive overtime compensation. The basis of the calculation of their overtime compensation is the equivalent hourly rate the employee earns. For a 37 1/2-hour workweek, the $59,000-a-year employee earns the equivalent of $30.25 per hour. The overtime rate for salaried nonexempt employees is the same as hourly, nonexempt employees: 1 1/2 times the hourly rate.