An energy audit is an inspection, survey and analysis of energy flows for energy conservation in a building, process or system to reduce the amount of energy input into the system without negatively affecting the output(s). While the overall concept is similar to a home or residential energy audit, industrial energy audits require a different skillset. Weatherproofing and insulating a house are the main focus of residential energy audits.
You’d be surprised at how many people are unable to answer that question! Home energy audits are detailed home examinations that determine: 1  Where and how energy is being lost in a home. 2  Which systems in the home are operating inefficiently. and Pay Less in Energy Bills. A home energy audit or rating will show you where and how your home is losing energy, and provide you with cost-effective solutions to the problems.
A general energy audit is also known as an energy assessment, standard energy audit or detailed energy audit. It expands on the home energy survey by collecting more detailed information regarding the home’s energy usage, as well as a more thorough financial analysis of its energy costs. and Pay Less in Energy Bills. A home energy audit or rating will show you where and how your home is losing energy, and provide you with cost-effective solutions to the problems.
Some local energy programs offer you a rebate towards the cost of your energy audit, sometimes offering as much as $250 of the total cost. These programs are great because they use only professionally trained energy auditors that offer an in-depth energy assessment and meet certain certification criteria. Free Energy Audits. Free energy audits are commonly offered by a local utility company, or through a local energy program funded by the government. These are usually ‘walk through’ energy audits that offer standard, general recommendations for energy improvement, typically aimed at lowering energy bills.
The purpose of an energy audit (sometimes called an “energy assessment” or “energy study”) is to determine where, when, why and how energy is used in a facil-ity, and to identify opportunities to improve efficiency. 
Home Energy Audits. A home energy checkup helps owners determine where their house is losing energy and money-and how such problems can be corrected to make the home more energy efficient. A professional technician -- often called an energy auditor -- can give your home a checkup. Items shown here include checking for leaks, examining insulation, inspecting the furnace and ductwork, performing a blower door test and using an infrared camera. Learn more about a professional home energy audit. A home energy audit, also known as a home energy assessment, is the first step to assess how much energy your home consumes and to evaluate what measures you can take to make your home more energy efficient. An assessment will show you problems that may, when corrected, save you significant amounts of money over time
A home energy audit is often used to identify cost effective ways to improve the comfort and efficiency of buildings. In addition, homes may qualify for energy efficiency grants from central government. While the overall concept is similar to a home or residential energy audit, industrial energy audits require a different skillset. Weatherproofing and insulating a house are the main focus of residential energy audits.
An energy audit is a process of identifying all energy uses in the home or business to determine the amounts of energy used and the costs. The findings of the energy audit can be used to determine ways to reduce energy use through conservation and energy efficiency improvements. DIY Home Energy Audits: There are several online, do-it-yourself home energy audit tools that you can use to gain an understanding of your energy use patterns and costs. Based on these audits, you can change your inputs to see potential savings.
Home energy audits are detailed examinations of a home to determine: 1  Where and how energy is being lost. 2  Those systems in the home that are operating inefficiently. 3  The types of cost-effective measures that can be put in place to make the home more comfortable, affordable and energy efficient. 