Examples of common lipids include butter, vegetable oil, cholesterol and other steroids, waxes, phospholipids, and fat-soluble vitamins. The common characteristic of all of these compounds is that they are essentially insoluble in water yet soluble in one or more organic solvents. Lipids are used by organisms for energy storage, as a signalling molecule (e.g., steroid hormones), and as a structural component of cell membranes. Although there is no single common structure for lipids, the most commonly occurring class of lipids are triglycerides, which are fats and oils. Lipids are class of naturally-occurring organic compounds that you may know by their common names: fats and oils. Here's a look at the function, structure, and physical properties of lipids.
3.2.7 Compare the use of carbohydrates and lipids in energy storage. Carbohydrates and lipids can both be used as energy storage however carbohydrates are usually used for short term storage whereas lipids are used for long term storage. Carbohydrates are soluble in water unlike lipids. 
A lipid that is used for energy storage would be any type of oil. So like peanut oil, canola oil, olive oil, etc. CArbohydrates and lipids are the major energy reserves for our body. CArbohydrate is stores as glycogen in liver and muscles whereas lipids are stored in the form of saturated … fats like cholesterol.
The most common type of fatty acid that is use for energy storage is in form of neutral fats. Neutral fats are the simplest type of lipids and are formed by three ester linkages of hydrocarbons to a glycerol otherwise known as triacylglycerols. These fats made up common foods such as butter and olive oil. Lipids are small water-insoluble biomolecules generally containing fatty acids, sterols, or isoprenoid compounds. There are a variety of lipids and each participates in different metabolism processes uniquely. Lipids are used as energy storage via fatty acids.
Lipids are important energy storage compounds because they provide heat and provide a source of long term energy. Because the are not soluble in water, they therefore do not w … ash away in the various bodily fluids. As they are not soluble in water they will not change the water potential of a cell they are present in. CArbohydrates and lipids are the major energy reserves for our body. CArbohydrate is stores as glycogen in liver and muscles whereas lipids are stored in the form of saturated … fats like cholesterol.
Best Answer: Not wax, wax is not a lipid. Steriods are proteins, also no lipids. With that, you have three lipids left. Phospholipids are used for membrane structure (phospholipid bilayer). Cholesterol is used to maintain the permeability and fluidity of the bilayer. So now you have triglycerides, the main component of vegetable oils and animal fat. Source(s): Wikipedia/ bio notes. 
Lipids are important energy storage compounds because they provide heat and provide a source of long term energy. Because the are not soluble in water, they therefore do not w … ash away in the various bodily fluids. As they are not soluble in water they will not change the water potential of a cell they are present in. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Triglycerides are a common lipid for energy storage. Triglycerides help in the process of moving blood glucose and adipose fat from the liver.
Because they function as an energy store, these lipids comprise the bulk of storage fat in animal tissues. The hydrolysis of the ester bonds of triglycerides and the release of glycerol and fatty acids from adipose tissue are the initial steps in metabolizing fat. The main biological functions of lipids include storing energy, signaling, and acting as structural components of cell membranes. Lipids have applications in the cosmetic and food industries as well as in nanotechnology.
This is the last class of macromolecules. Unlike the previous groups, however, lipids are a chemically diverse group of molecules that all share a common property: they are (relatively) insoluble in water due to their hydrophobicity (and thus soluble in other lipids). Triglycerides are efficient energy storing molecules as more energy can be stored in a pound of fat than in a pound of glycogen. 2. Steroids: This second class of lipids has almost nothing in common with triglycerides other than the fact that they are hydrophobic.