For purposes of the Age Discrimination in Employment Act (ADEA), employers are required to keep payroll records for the same length of time required under the FLSA -- three years from the termination date. However, other employee benefit information must be retained for only one year. When an employment relationship ends, employers have an obligation to store employee personnel files in a secure location. The length of time employee records must be kept varies, according to federal and some state laws concerning employer record keeping.
IRS payroll tax-related records-keep these records for at least four years following the period covered by the records. Common Law Requirements. There are no common law requirements as such for how long employers should keep certain kinds of records. The duty to keep the records for a specified period of time. This brief article will focus on the third set of requirements, i.e., how long employers should maintain records under various laws.
Outside of the period, and the taxpayer doesn't have to provide it. I suspect your asking about your own payroll records from an employer. They are required to timely (by 1/31 following the year end) to have provided you with your W-2. Once they timely give them to you, it is YOUR obligation to keep them. It is none of your business how long they keep their records on this or other things. And it will be your problem and expense if you claim they didn't comply with making them available to you.
Since employees may come and go, you may wonder how long you should hang on to the employee records. The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) weighs in on records pertaining to employee taxes, such as payroll, but the other records depend on what types of records you have for employees. Small business expert Rieva Lesonsky suggests you keep employment records for a minimum of two years and for up to seven years. She says that most states have a two-year statute of limitations on lawsuit filings by former employees, so you want to make sure you have documents at hand if this occurs.
Employee Contracts. If you have employment contracts with your employees, then you should maintain these contracts for at least 10 years. According to Financial Web, you should “err on the side of caution” and maintain employee records for a longer period than you think you may need, in case a legal issue arises. Small business expert Rieva Lesonsky suggests you keep employment records for a minimum of two years and for up to seven years. She says that most states have a two-year statute of limitations on lawsuit filings by former employees, so you want to make sure you have documents at hand if this occurs.
Recordkeeping Requirements. EEOC Regulations require that employers keep all personnel or employment records for one year. If an employee is involuntarily terminated, his/her personnel records must be retained for one year from the date of termination. Under ADEA recordkeeping requirements, employers must also keep all payroll records for three year
Oregon law requires employers to keep personnel records for 60 days, and to keep payroll records for 2 years (3 years under federal law), but that does NOT mean it is a good idea to purge those documents as soon as you can lawfully do so. 
Age-discrimination documentation (ADEA) - keep payroll records for at least three years, and any other documents relating to personnel actions for at least one year, or during the pendency of a claim or lawsuit. OSHA records-keep OSHA-related records for at least five years. The duty to keep the records for a specified period of time. This brief article will focus on the third set of requirements, i.e., how long employers should maintain records under various laws.
Content remains current as of July 2013. Employers should know how long to keep or destroy employee files and documents. Each state and federal agency has a different set of requirements, often covering the same documents so it's challenging for you to know what to keep and for how long. 
In the case of employment records, the IRS guidelines say to keep the records for a minimum of four years after you pay the tax or the tax is due, whichever of the two dates is later. Small business expert Rieva Lesonsky suggests you keep employment records for a minimum of two years and for up to seven years. She says that most states have a two-year statute of limitations on lawsuit filings by former employees, so you want to make sure you have documents at hand if this occurs.