DNA fingerprinting. or. any of several similar techniques for analyzing and comparing DNA from separate sources, used especially in law enforcement to identify suspects from hair, blood, semen, or other biological materials found at the scene of a violent crime. Methods. A common procedure for DNA fingerprinting is restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP). In this method, DNA is extracted from a sample and cut into segments using special restriction enzymes. RFLP focuses on segments that contain sequences of repeated DNA bases, which vary widely from person to person.
Definition of DNA FINGERPRINTING. : a technique used especially for identification (as for forensic purposes) by extracting and identifying the base-pair pattern in an individual's DNA —called also DNA typing. — DNA fingerprint noun. See DNA fingerprinting defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT
DNA fingerprinting. n. A method used to identify multilocus DNA banding patterns that are specific to an individual by exposing a sample of the person's DNA to molecular probes and various analytical techniques such as Southern blot analysis. DNA fingerprinting is often used to provide evidence in criminal law cases. DNA fingerprinting depends on the detection of distinctive DNA sequences in human cellular material (skin, hair, blood, semen).
A technique used especially for identification (as for forensic purposes) by extracting and identifying the base-pair pattern of an individual's DNA -- called also DNA typing, genetic fingerprinting. Definition from: Merriam-Webster's Medical Dictionary by Merriam-Webster Inc. A DNA sample taken from a crime scene is compared with a DNA sample from a suspect. If the two DNA profiles are a match, then the evidence came from that suspect. Conversely, if the two DNA profiles do not match, then the evidence cannot have come from the suspect.
: a technique used especially for identification (as for forensic purposes) by extracting and identifying the base-pair pattern of an individual's DNA—called also DNA typing, genetic fingerprinting. : a technique used especially for identification (as for forensic purposes) by extracting and identifying the base-pair pattern in an individual's DNA —called also DNA typing. — DNA fingerprint noun. See DNA fingerprinting defined for kids.
DNA fingerprinting. the use of a DNA probe for the identification of an individual, as for the matching of genes from a forensic sample with those of a criminal suspect. [1985–90]. The use of a sample of DNA to determine the identity of a person within a certain probability. DNA fingerprinting is done by analyzing repeating patterns of base pairs in DNA sequences that are known to vary greatly among individuals.
Southern hybridization with a radiolabeled repetitive DNA provides an autoradiographic pattern unique to the individual. Synonym(s): DNA profiling, DNA typing. DNA fingerprinting depends on the detection of distinctive DNA sequences in human cellular material (skin, hair, blood, semen).
DNA fingerprinting is a laboratory technique used to establish a link between biological evidence and a suspect in a criminal investigation. A DNA sample taken from a crime scene is compared with a DNA sample from a suspect. If the two DNA profiles are a match, then the evidence came from that suspect. Conversely, if the two DNA profiles do not match, then the evidence cannot have come from the suspect. DNA fingerprinting is also used to establish paternity
DNA profiling (also called DNA fingerprinting, DNA testing, or DNA typing) is a forensic technique used to identify individuals by characteristics of their DNA. 
DNA fingerprint-biometric identification obtained by examining a person's unique sequence of DNA base pairs; often used for evidence in criminal law cases. genetic fingerprint. 