Carlo /car-lo/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name. Carlo's root is Old German, and the meaning of Carlo is free man. Carlo is an Italian form of Carlos (Spanish, Old German): version of Charles. Carleo is a popular last name. Kreatif forms: Cailo, Courlo. Below is a graphed analysis of the popularity of the boy name Carlo and affiliated names. Prominent alternative forms of Carlo rated in the Top 1000 are Charles (#51 in 2014) , Carlos (#117) , Charlie (#225) , Carl (#613) , Chad (#703) , Chaz, Chip, Chuck, Chas, Karl, Carrol, Cary, Charley and Carroll.
In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 117 in baby name popularity for boys with 3402 occurrences. Less than 5 girls were given the name. View the Carlos Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Carlos has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Carlos to other names. Many Spanish given names honor the Virgin Mary. Girls are frequently given the name Maria or Maria followed by a suffix name and boys are sometimes given the name Maria as a middle name. Girls with Marian composite names may use the suffix portion of their name as their main informal name.
Given names are simple such as Juan or composite such as Juan Pablo. Composite names are considered single unit first names and not first and second names. Parents give names that just appeal to them, honor relatives or saints, or are of traditional Spanish origin. Many Spanish given names honor the Virgin Mary. Girls are frequently given the name Maria or Maria followed by a suffix name and boys are sometimes given the name Maria as a middle name. Girls with Marian composite names may use the suffix portion of their name as their main informal name.
The name Carlos is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Carlos is: Strong. American Meaning: The name Carlos is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Carlos is: Strong. Spanish Meaning: The name Carlos is a Spanish baby name. In Spanish the meaning of the name Carlos is: Manly.
The meaning of name Juan-Carlos, origin of name Juan-Carlos, baby name Juan-Carlos. Discover for free which first names would suit you or your baby ! 
Personal experiences with the name Carlos: | Edit. I have known a few boys named Juan Carlos. Two of my best friends in high school were named Carlos. It's a flexible name that accommodates different personalities. My name is Cecil, and my boyfriend, Carlos the Scientist, is currently stuck in a desert in another dimension.
Look up Charles in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. Charles is a masculine given name from the French form Charles of a Germanic name Karl. The original Anglo-Saxon was Ċearl or Ċeorl, as the name of king Cearl of Mercia, that disappeared after the Norman conquest of England. The corresponding Old Norse form is Karl, the German form is also Karl. 
Carlos /car-los/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced KAR-lohs. It is of Spanish and Old German origin, and the meaning of Carlos is free man. Variant of Charles. See also Carl. Film directors Carlos Saura, and Carl Ponti. Carlos is a very popular first name for men (#81 out of 1220, Top 7%) and also a very popular surname for all people (#2718 out of 150436, Top 2%). (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the baby name popularity of Carlos for boys