Most likely this is due to the NFL freezing bonus money in 2012 and 2013 when the CBA would have likely called for a reduction in bonus money due to a flat salary cap. For the most part the only leeway in compensation comes in round 3 where players seem to have much more power to negotiate better back end salaries which is why, in the past, a players selected with say the 10th pick in the round may earn less total compensation than a player selected with the 11th pick.
Bradford Hits the Jackpot. Before 2011, NFL teams didn't have a cap that restricted the contracts for first-round picks. The largest, and last uncapped rookie contract was given to University of Oklahoma quarterback Sam Bradford in 2010, who the St. Louis Rams made the first overall pick. Locked in for Four Years. The NFL has a rookie salary cap that limits the amount a team can give a player during his first season and over the course of the first four years with the team -- the length of a rookie contract -- and all first-round contracts come with a team option for a fifth year.
The following are the scale salary amounts for the first round picks in each draft. A player's actual salary in any year may be as little as 80% or as much as 120% of the scale amount. The third and fourth seasons of rookie scale contracts are at the team's option. The percentage in the column for the fourth year is the required raise over the third year salary for a team to exercise the option.
The minimum pay scale for a player in the seventh round is set at $2,270,496 over four years. Of course, the player has to stay with the team to earn that money, as the first-year salary is set at $50,496. While the 2014 NFL draft has been one of the most intriguing in years, it is extremely similar to the last few years in one respect—the pay for prospects in the first round.
2014-2015 NBA Draft Class. First round picks can sign for as much as 120% and as little as 80% of the rookie scale. 80.5%. 50.0%
Years ago, NFL rookies had a wide-open pay scale to work with, making the first-overall pick more coveted than it is now. Under the new rules in the NFL draft, players at the top of the board earn contracts for four years, estimated at just over $24 million, per Over the Cap estimates. While the 2014 NFL draft has been one of the most intriguing in years, it is extremely similar to the last few years in one respect—the pay for prospects in the first round.
As a result of the institution of the draft, Tim Mara, owner of the Giants, reduced Ken Strong 's salary offer to $3,200 from $6,000 a year for 1936 because Mara felt the draft would alter the salary structure of the NFL. The commissioner has the ability to forfeit picks the team is allotted in a draft. For example, in the 2007 NFL season, the New England Patriots were penalized for videotaping the Jets' defensive signals outside of a designated area. As a result, the Patriots forfeited their first-round pick in the 2008 NFL Draft.
Players selected between picks 11 and 32 would receive a salary that is the average of the third to 25th highest-paid players in the NFL at their respective positions. « Prev. The most glaring change that the new rookie wage scale has brought about is the drastic cut in salaries to top draft picks. The cap restrictions have forced teams to tighten their wallets significantly over the last two seasons.
$993,400. 80.5%. 50.0%. First round picks can sign for as much as 120% and as little as 80% of the rookie scale.