Monsoons are seasonal winds that bring moist air from oceans and seas over land. The winds are in the reverse direction of flow from the non-monsoon season, and can generate copious precipitation as well as changes in the surface currents in the sea. The winds are in the reverse direction of flow from the non-monsoon season, and can generate c … 
The most famous monsoon is the Indian monsoon. The intense rainfall in these regions can cause massive flooding and destruction of crops. In dry climates, monsoons are an important replenishment for life as water is brought back into drought-stricken zones of the world. The primary mechanism behind a monsoon is a shift in global wind patterns. During most of the year, winds blow from land to ocean making the air dry. Winds originating from land are called continental. During certain months of the year, the winds begin to blow from the ocean to the land making the air moist.
The term was first used in English in British India (now India, Bangladesh and Pakistan) and neighbouring countries to refer to the big seasonal winds blowing from the Bay of Bengal and Arabian Sea in the southwest bringing heavy rainfall to the area. The south-west monsoon winds are called 'Nairutya Maarut' in India. The English monsoon came from Portuguese moncao, monção ultimately From arabic (mawsim موسم) season/and Or hindi, mausam perhaps partly via early Modern dutch . monsun
Answer: Monsoons, or rainy seasons, are a shift in wind direction which causes excessive rainfall in many parts of the world including Asia, North America, South America, and Africa. The primary mechanism behind a monsoon is a shift in global wind patterns. During most of the year, winds blow from land to ocean making the air dry. Winds originating from land are called continental. During certain months of the year, the winds begin to blow from the ocean to the land making the air moist.
Monsoons occur due to difference in temperatures in the sea and that of the land. The air on the land is heated by the sun light. The heat in the air present on the waters of seas and oceans will be absorbed by the water and hence the air on the sea will be cool comparatively. This monsoon will originate from the rotation of the earth with respect to the Sun. The winds of the monsoon are annual and the duration of the monsoons, the rain intensity and the time at which it attacks cannot be predicted.
Monsoons are seasonal winds that bring moist air from oceans and seas over land. The winds are in the reverse direction of flow from the non-monsoon season, and can generate c … opious precipitation as well as changes in the surface currents in the sea. While farming depends upon monsoons for rainfall, disastrous flooding can often occur during monsoons
1 Many of the crops grown in India depend on the monsoon for water. 2  When the monsoon is less than normal, farmers grow fewer crops. 3  While they earn less, this also means there is less food for everyone. 4  When there is less food than what we need, food becomes costly. 5  Prices of rice, wheat and other food items go up. Farmers depend on rain for their crops. Most the agriculture in India depends on rainfall to water crops. 1 
The impact of monsoon on the local weather is different from place to place. In some places there is just a likelihood of having a little more or less rain. In other places, quasi semi-deserts are turned into vivid green grasslands where all sorts of plants and crops can flourish. The English monsoon came from Portuguese moncao, monção ultimately From arabic (mawsim موسم) season/and Or hindi, mausam perhaps partly via early Modern dutch . monsun
Monsoon season is a welcome relief to drought conditions in many areas of the world. Monsoons can also bring about widespread famine and enough rain to kill hundreds of people in floods. While the Asia and India monsoons are famous, there are even monsoon season in the United States. The primary mechanism behind a monsoon is a shift in global wind patterns. During most of the year, winds blow from land to ocean making the air dry. Winds originating from land are called continental. During certain months of the year, the winds begin to blow from the ocean to the land making the air moist.
Monsoon is a yearly phenomenon in the weather. This monsoon will originate from the rotation of the earth with respect to the Sun. The winds of the monsoon are annual and the duration of the monsoons, the rain intensity and the time at which it attacks cannot be predicted. Hence, the prediction of the storm is also not possible