Whether you roast it whole, blend into a classic soup or drink as juice like the Olympians do-beetroot is low in fat, full of vitamins and minerals and packed with powerful antioxidants-a health-food titan. Other studies have looked at the effect of beetroot juice on blood pressure. A reduction in blood pressure is beneficial for the avoidance of heart disease and stroke. Studies state that nitrate rich foods like beetroot may help in heart attack survival.
Beetroot Juice, with its crimson red hue has been used since ancient times as a traditional tonic for health.**. Modern research, through chemistry and nutritional analysis, has found great relevance in many of the ancient claims.**. Beetroot juice is a nutritional goldmine of potassium, phosphorus, calcium, iodine, iron, copper and vitamins, in addition to trace minerals.**. Recent research suggests that beetroot juice may increase levels of nitric oxide.**. 
Nutritional Value of Beets. Beet roots are high in folic acid and manganese. The green leafs are high in vitamin A (127% RDA), Vitamin C (50% RDA), vitamin K (500% RDA) as well as calcium, iron, magnesium, potassium, copper and magnesium, sulfur, silica and choline (see the chart below for details). Reverses Chronic Diseases. The raw oxalic acid in beet juice is known to be a good solvent of inorganic (= bad) calcium deposits in the body. World no 1 raw food teacher David Wolfe suspects that inorganic calcium deposits are the main cause of most chronic diseases.
Ingredients: Certified organic beetroot juice (reconstituted from organic beetroot concentrate and organic beet root powder), citric acid (to retard spoilage). Directions: Shake well before use. Contains 100% juice with citric acid. 
Beetroot juice is a nutritional goldmine of potassium, phosphorus, calcium, iodine, iron, copper and vitamins, in addition to trace minerals. Recent research suggests that beetroot juice may increase level of nitric oxide. Tastes good, but the Product Info says: Beetroot juice is a nutritional GOLDMINE of potassium, phosphorus, calcium, iodine, iron, copper and vitamins, in addition to trace minerals. But then the Supplemental FACTS says it only gives: Iron 1.5% of Daily value and of.
BEET Overview Information. Beet is a plant. The root is used in natural medicines. Beets are used along with medications in the treatment of liver diseases and fatty liver. They are also used to help lower levels of triglycerides (a type of fat) in the blood, lower blood pressure, and to improve athletic performance.
Best Uses. Comments about Dynamic Health Beetroot Juice - 32 Ounces Liquid : Tastes good, but the Product Info says: Beetroot juice is a nutritional GOLDMINE of potassium, phosphorus, calcium, iodine, iron, copper and vitamins, in addition to trace minerals. But then the Supplemental FACTS says it only gives: Iron 1.5% of Daily value and of.
Organic Beetroot Juice 16 oz Liquid. Beets are a natural source of naturally-occurring vitamins, minerals and more. Beetroot juice naturally contains nitric oxide precursors and has been the subject of recent research for cardiovascular and brain health as well as stamina support. 1  No Sugar Added.
In addition, the oxalic acid in the beet becomes harmful when cooked, but is (in moderation) beneficial when raw(according to juice and nutrition experts Dr Walker, David Wolfe and Gabriel Cousins). Juice the whole beets: roots plus greens. The greens contain most of the healthy minerals and vitamins. Reverses Chronic Diseases. The raw oxalic acid in beet juice is known to be a good solvent of inorganic (= bad) calcium deposits in the body. World no 1 raw food teacher David Wolfe suspects that inorganic calcium deposits are the main cause of most chronic diseases.
Beetroots provide vitamin C. Food expert and cookbook author Dave Lieberman calls beetroot a super-food because they are dense with dietary fiber, antioxidant compounds and a wide variety of vitamins and minerals. Beetroot is the edible root of the plant species Beta vulgaris. 