Maybe you can remove BIOS password just by moving battery from motherboard. However, the same way is not available for removing hard disk password because of these reasons: 1  H ard disk password is stored in the hard disk firmware and moves with the hard disk. 2  If you add a new (unlocked) hard disk to a locked machine, it may lead to new hard disk to be locked. 1
Our laptop security chips are here. Our hard disk unlocking service is here. If your computer won t boot without a password or you need a password to enter the computer set-up or change the settings, then you have a BIOS password set. BIOS is an acronym for basic input/output system.
When it is required, if you know your BIOS password it can be removed by following the steps below. Removing a BIOS password: 1  Power on the system. 2  As soon as the first logo screen appears, immediately press the F2 key, or the DEL key if you have a desktop, to enter the BIOS. 3  Use the arrow keys to navigate to Security or BIOS Security Features.
Whereas an operating system password controls whether you can log in after you’ve booted the computer and a BIOS password controls whether you can boot the computer at all, a hard disk password controls access to the hard disk itself. When you boot your computer, you’ll need to enter the hard disk password. If you don’t know the hard disk password, your hard disk will be “locked” and won’t function. Unlike BIOS and operating system passwords, a hard disk password protects your data even if someone opens up your computer and removes the hard disk. The hard disk password is stored in the disk drive’s firmware itself. 
Resetting the CMOS will not remove any password that is stored on your hard drive. Hope this helps! Score. 0. Related resources. 1  Reset/remove BIOS password of Acer AO722-0473 - Forum. 2  I want to reset or remove my bios password from VPCEB14EN sony vaio laptop. I have never seen a laptop with a password or clr cmos jumper. bignastyid said: Hey, If by set a password to the hard disk drive you mean set a password to Windows, or some other OS or program then resetting the CMOS will not help as the password is stored on the hard drive. The only type of password that can be removed by clearing the CMOS is usually the BIOS password
March 21, 2014 5:53:37 AM. If it is your laptop, contact Toshiba for a back door or hardware solution. http://www.tomshardware.com/forum/64241-35-locked-lapto... I set an HDD password for my Toshiba Satellite L850-A848 laptop. Now I can't get to the BIOS settings. 
If you still remember hard disk password, or you remember bios password is the same as hard drive password, follows the below to remove it. 1  Start your Acer laptop and hold on pressing F2. 2  Few seconds later, you will enter BIOS Setup Utility. 1 H ard disk password is stored in the hard disk firmware and moves with the hard disk. 2  If you add a new (unlocked) hard disk to a locked machine, it may lead to new hard disk to be locked.
Some laptops provide a utility to lock a hard disk with a password. These passwords are not the same as BIOS passwords. Moving a locked hard disk to another machine will not unlock it, since the hard disk password is stored in the hard disk firmware and moves with the hard disk. Also, adding a new (unlocked) hard disk to a locked machine may cause the new hard disk to become locked. Our hard disk unlocking service is here. If your computer won t boot without a password or you need a password to enter the computer set-up or change the settings, then you have a BIOS password set. BIOS is an acronym for basic input/output system.
July 27, 2013 10:35:19 PM. Hey, If by set a password to the hard disk drive you mean set a password to Windows, or some other OS or program then resetting the CMOS will not help as the password is stored on the hard drive. The only type of password that can be removed by clearing the CMOS is usually the BIOS password. I have never seen a laptop with a password or clr cmos jumper. bignastyid said: Hey, If by set a password to the hard disk drive you mean set a password to Windows, or some other OS or program then resetting the CMOS will not help as the password is stored on the hard drive.