Gulf States-a region of the United States comprising states bordering the Gulf of Mexico; Alabama and Florida and Louisiana and Mississippi and Texas. Confederacy, Confederate States, Confederate States of America, Dixie, Dixieland, South-the southern states that seceded from the United States in 1861. Plano-a city in northeastern Texas (suburb of Dallas). San Angelo-a town in west central Texas; formerly a notorious frontier town. San Antonio-a city of south central Texas; site of the Alamo; site of several military bases and a popular haven for vacationers.
Corpus Christi-a city in southern Texas on an arm of the Gulf of Mexico. Dallas-a large commercial and industrial city in northeastern Texas located in the heart of the northern Texas oil fields. Del Rio-a town in southwest Texas on the Rio Grande to the west of San Antonio. Plano-a city in northeastern Texas (suburb of Dallas). San Angelo-a town in west central Texas; formerly a notorious frontier town. San Antonio-a city of south central Texas; site of the Alamo; site of several military bases and a popular haven for vacationers.
Texas was an independent republic. By the joint resolution of congress of March 1, 1845, congress gave consent that the republic of Texas might be erected into a new state, to be called the state of Texas, with a republican form of government to be adopted by the people. 
Houston-the largest city in Texas; located in southeastern Texas near the Gulf of Mexico; site of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. Laredo-a city in southern Texas on the Rio Grande. Lubbock-a city in northwest Texas to the south of Amarillo. Plano-a city in northeastern Texas (suburb of Dallas). San Angelo-a town in west central Texas; formerly a notorious frontier town. San Antonio-a city of south central Texas; site of the Alamo; site of several military bases and a popular haven for vacationers.
Texas has an area of 268,820 square miles, and a growing population of 26.1 million residents. Houston is the largest city in Texas and the fourth-largest in the United States, while San Antonio is the second largest in the state and seventh largest in the United States. Dallas–Fort Worth and Greater Houston are the fourth and fifth largest United States metropolitan areas, respectively. Texas is the second most populous and the second-largest of the 50 states in the United States of America, and the largest state in the 48 contiguous
Definition of Texas in English: A state in the southern US, on the border with Mexico, with a coastline on the Gulf of Mexico; population 24,326,974 (est. 2008); capital, Austin. The area formed part of Mexico until 1836, when it declared independence and became a republic. It became the 28th state of the US in 1845.
Origin of TEXAS. Texas, state of United States; from the naming of cabins on Mississippi steamboats after states, the officers' cabins being the largest. : a structure on the awning deck of a steamer that contains the officers' cabins and has the pilothouse in front or on top. ADVERTISEMENT.
The State of Texas, however, has not formally adopted a specific definition of a border county.. Therefore, the applied definition of a border county is interpreted differently within the various government agencies and organizations in order to address a certain issue. The Office of the Secretary of State defines a colonia as a residential area along the Texas-Mexico border that may lack some of the most basic living necessities, such as potable water and sewer systems, electricity, paved roads, and safe and sanitary housing.
Texas was an independent republic. By the joint resolution of congress of March 1, 1845, congress gave consent that the republic of Texas might be erected into a new state, to be called the state of Texas, with a republican form of government to be adopted by the people. 
Definition of TEXAS. : a structure on the awning deck of a steamer that contains the officers' cabins and has the pilothouse in front or on top. ADVERTISEMENT.