1 This will make your icons a smaller size than the default Medium Icons option. 2  Alternately, you can select any icon on your desktop, press the Control key (CTRL), and use your mouse's scrolling wheel to resize your icons. 2. Select the Appearance tab in the Display Properties dialog, then click the Advanced button. 3. In the Advanced Appearance dialog, select Icon from the Item drop-down menu. Select new size in the Size field to the right of the
Best Answer: You can make your desktop icons smaller even without changing your screen resolution. To do it, simply right click anywhere on your desktop (not on any icon, of course) then click properties. Click on the Appearance Tab then click Advanced. Now you will see that there is a drop-down option that says Item. Now, select Icon to change its size. You can also try other Items to change its appearaance.
Method 2 of 3: Windows XP. 1. Right-click any empty space on the desktop. A contextual menu will appear. Select Properties. 2. Select the Appearance tab in the Display Properties dialog, then click the Advanced button. 3. In the Advanced Appearance dialog, select Icon from the Item drop-down menu. Select new size in the Size field to the right of the drop-down menu.
Save. The bigger the icons and text are on your computer screen, the better you can see and read them. The smaller the icons and text are, the more that will fit on your screen without everything looking crowded. Making your computer screen smaller or larger is just a matter of adjusting the screen resolution. Select the Screen Resolution drop-down menu and adjust the slider bar up or down to control the resolution for your display. Click Apply.. Windows will show you a preview of the new settings. Click Revert if you would like to adjust the settings to something else.
How to Change the Size of the Taskbar Icons. If you want to change the size of the icons in your taskbar, there's a different setting for that, which will also change the size of text, apps, and other items across Windows 10. 1. Right-click on an empty space on the desktop. 2. 
How to Make Your Windows XP Screen Smaller. The screen resolution defines the dimensions of objects on the monitor. If the width of the screen in Windows XP is too large, icons, text and images might be too hard to see, making it difficult to complete your work. You can alter the screen resolution to make the screen width smaller, thereby increasing the size of objects
Adjust the screen resolution. Right click anywhere on the desktop that is not an icon and then click properties at the bottom. From there navigate to the settings tab at the top right. Then simply adjust your screen resolution to a larger setting.
To alter the size of your Windows desktop taskbar, make sure that the taskbar is not locked. To see whether or not it is locked, right click any empty space on the taskbar, and check there is no tick next to 'Lock the taskbar'. If there isn't, good. If there is, click 'Lock the taskbar' once to unlock it. 
Instructions. Right-click on a blank area of your desktop. Select Screen Resolution.. Select the Screen Resolution drop-down menu and adjust the slider bar up or down to control the resolution for your display. Click Apply.. Windows will show you a preview of the new settings. Click Revert if you would like to adjust the settings to something else.
Click or Scroll to Resize Icons. Place your cursor in an area on the desktop not occupied by an icon. Right click on the mouse. Choose “View.” In the View submenu, choose “Large icons,” “Medium icons” or “Small icons.”. You can also use the scroll wheel on your mouse to resize the icons. 