Chanel /cha-nel/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced sha-NELL. It is of Old French origin, and the meaning of Chanel is pipe. From a French occupational name and surname for pipe fitters and manufacturers. Contemporary usage may be due to the influence of the legendary fashion designer Gabrielle 'Coco' Chanel (1883-1971), and a number of famous perfumes. Also the name of a 14th-century French missionary saint
PRONOUNCED: shə-NEL [key]. Meaning & History. From a French surname which meant pipe. It has been used as an American given name since 1970s, influenced by the Chanel brand name (a line of women's clothing and perfume), which was named for French fashion designer Coco Chanel (1883-1971). Related Names. See All Relations.
Chanel is the transferred use of a French surname most famously borne by iconic French fashion designer Coco Chanel (1883-1971). It is probably in her honor that Chanel is used as a female given name (mush like Armani or Gianni). Chanel-Girl Baby Name-Historic Figures. Gabrielle Coco Chanel (19 Aug 1883 - 10 Jan 1971) - Coco Chanel (born Gabrielle in Saumus, France) is one of the most influential fashion designers that ever lived.
The name Chanel is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Chanel is: Canal; channel. The popular perfume Chanel. American Meaning: The name Chanel is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Chanel is: Canal; channel.
French Meaning: The name Chanel is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Chanel is: Canal; channel. The popular perfume Chanel. American Meaning: The name Chanel is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Chanel is: Canal; channel. The popular perfume Chanel
African Meaning: The name Chane is an African baby name. In African the meaning of the name Chane is: Plant. French Meaning: The name Chane is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Chane is: Oak-hearted.
Chanel is a very prominent first name for females (#1432 out of 4276, Top 33%) and a slightly less prominent last name for both adults and children (#112967 out of 150436, Top 75%). (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the baby name popularity of Chanel for girls. From a French occupational name and surname for pipe fitters and manufacturers. Contemporary usage may be due to the influence of the legendary fashion designer Gabrielle 'Coco' Chanel (1883-1971), and a number of famous perfumes.
The name Chanel comes from the French origin. In French The meaning of the name Chanel is: Canal; channel. The popular perfume Chanel.
The French got the word “chanel” from the Latin “canalis” meaning “water pipe” in reference to a water channel or canal. As a female forename Chanel has been used mostly by Americans with a tip of the hat to Coco Chanel since the 1970s. But it is also used occasionally in England, the Netherlands, Canada and Australia. Chanel-Girl Baby Name-Historic Figures. Gabrielle Coco Chanel (19 Aug 1883 - 10 Jan 1971) - Coco Chanel (born Gabrielle in Saumus, France) is one of the most influential fashion designers that ever lived.
What does Chanel mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Chanel is of French origin. The meaning of Chanel is channel, pipe. It is also of English origin, where its meaning is modern invented name. 