•Nerve cells (neurons)carry the message fromthe stimulated receptorsto the correct effectors.• A sensory neuron carriesthe message from the receptorto the central nervous system (the spinal cord and brain). • A motor neuron carries themessage from the centralnervous system to the effector.• This is a reflex arc. 
Nerves. There are three main types of neurons in the nervous system: 1  Sensory Neurons: Conduct nerve impulses from receptors to the CNS (afferent pathway). 2  Relay Neurons: Conduct nerve impulses within the CNS (also called interneurons or connector neurons). The nervous system contains a specialised network of cells called neurons and coordinates the actions of complex organisms via the transmission of electrochemical signals. The nervous system can be divided into two main parts:
Reflex arc. Reflex reactions in humans are controlled by the reflex arc. When the safety of an organism demands a very quick response, the signals may be passed directly from a sensory neuron, via a relay neurone, to a motor neurone for instant, unthinking action. This is a reflex action
1-7. REFLEX ARC An impulse follows a conduction pathway from its origin in the dendrites or neuron cell body in one part of the body to the impulse's end somewhere else in the body. One pathway is called a reflex arc and is a functional unit of the nervous system. The basic parts of a reflex arc are a receptor, a sensory neuron, a center, a motor neuron, and an effector. a. Function of Components of a Reflex Arc. Functions are: (1) Receptor. The receptor activates a nerve impulse in a sensory neuron in response to a change in the body's internal or external environment. (2) Sensory neuron. This neuron conducts the impulse from the receptor to its axonal end in the central nervous system.
A neural pathway, neural tract, or neural face, connects one part of the nervous system with another via a bundle of axons, the long fibers of neurons. A neural pathway that serves to connect relatively distant areas of the brain or nervous system is usually a bundle of neurons, known collectively as white matter.
Doctors often trigger this reflex to test the function of your nervous system. If the reaction is exaggerated or absent, it may indicate a damage to the central nervous system. Autonomic reflexes. Most reflexes go completely unnoticed because they don't involve a visible and sudden movement. A reflex action often involves a very simple nervous pathway called a reflex arc. A reflex arc starts off with receptors being excited. They then send signals along a sensory neuron to your spinal cord, where the signals are passed on to a motor neuron.
1 Sensory neuron(s) then transmit information from the sensory receptor(s) to the Central Nervous System (i.e. the brain and spinal cord, sometimes referred to in the abbreviated form: C.N.S.). 2  This is happens because peripheral nerves connect to the spinal cord via the network of nerves within the nervous system. 1 (Stimuli is the plural form, referring to more than one stimulus.). 2  In this context, a stimulus is something that human sensory receptors are able to detect. 3  E.g. sounds, physical contact, tastes, visual sensation, etc..
When a physician strikes your patellar tendon, the tendon fibers are stretched and activate the golgi tendon organ (receptor). (This mimics what would happen to the tendon if one were to fall over backwards.) An action potential results, and is carried toward the spinal cord. Within the gray matter the sensory neuron synapses with an interneuron. The interneuron in turn synapses with one or more motor neurons, and an action potential is in turn initiated in the motor neuron(s).