The Advanced Practice Psychiatric Nurse. Advanced practice psychiatric nurses provide primary mental health care to patients seeking mental health services in a wide range of settings. This includes the assessment, diagnosis, and management of mental health problems and psychiatric disorders. The program allows for a primary focus on either children or adults. Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioners (PMHNPs) provide a full range of primary mental health care services including biopsychosocial assessment and diagnosis of patients with mental illness. Treatment modalities include both medication and psychotherapeutic management.
Master's degree programs for psychiatric nurse practitioners generally take one-and-a-half to three years to complete, depending on the school. Students develop psychotherapy skills and learn therapeutic approaches, such as cognitive behavioral therapy, group therapy, and other therapeutic modalities. Most psychiatric nurse practitioner graduate degree programs require applicants to have one to two years of clinical psychiatric nursing experience as an RN before considering them for enrollment.
A psychiatric nurse practitioner and a social worker are different in many ways, especially if the social worker is a direct-service social worker as opposed to a clinical one. Among the differences are education, professional designation, income, and the authorization to prescribe medication and order medical tests. The primary similarity between a psychiatric nurse practitioner and a clinical social worker is that both treat patients with mental illness. For direct-service social workers, this degree may be all that is necessary, but a clinical social worker must have a master's in social work. Psychiatric nurse practitioners also must have a master's degree, and some obtain doctorates.
For information about the field, see Psychiatric and mental health nursing. In the United States, a Psychiatric-mental health nurse practitioner (PMHNP) is an advanced practice registered nurse trained to provide a wide range of mental health services to patients and families in a variety of settings. 
So if you don't want to be a nurse than don't be a nurse practitioner become a psychiatric social worker who does clinical work. You won't be able to prescribe medications as a social worker, but you can't be a nurse practitioner with out being a nurse. So, I'd like to become a Psychiatric Nurse Practitioner. My goal is to work in a Private Practice, rather than in a hospital setting. I'm a senior in high school, and I'm entering college to major in Psychology. I know that I have to have my BSN to go to Master's School, but there are...
A psychiatric nurse practitioner is a position where you will be working with patients, in a similar manner to the work a traditional psychiatrist would do. Psychiatric nurse practitioner job characteristics. Some psychiatric nurse practitioner characteristics include: 1  Face to face interaction. 2  Work in a structured organization and with other professionals and specialists. 3  Work one on one with patients, to determine the course of care for each one
Psychiatric nurse practitioners, or mental health nurse practitioners, are advanced practice nurses who serve as primary care mental health providers. They diagnose and treat patients with mental illnesses and can also serve as educators or counselors for medical patients and their families. Most psychiatric nurse practitioner graduate degree programs require applicants to have one to two years of clinical psychiatric nursing experience as an RN before considering them for enrollment.
Education and Licensing. Psychiatric nurse practitioners and social workers begin their education with a bachelor's degree. For direct-service social workers, this degree may be all that is necessary, but a clinical social worker must have a master's in social work. Psychiatric nurse practitioners also must have a master's degree, and some obtain doctorates.
All of the above, psychiatrists, psychologists, social workers, mental health nurse practitioners, and marriage and family therapists, are generically referred to as psychotherapists or counselors. Because of his or her medical training, a psychiatrist will ordinarily charge more for treatment services. A licensed psychiatric social worker, or LCSW, has a degree in social work and is also trained and licensed to treat psychological problems. A licensed marriage and family counselor is another type of individual who is trained to provide therapy.