Even with retainers, there is some settling of the teeth; however the longer you wear your retainer, the better your chances that your teeth will stay in good alignment. Initially, retainers are worn full time. After a period of time, to be determined by the doctor, night time wear is usually acceptable. Quite honestly it depends on your dentist and your teeth. When I got my retainers my dentist told me to wear them 24/7 for six months. After that I'll wear them only at night. … The best way to find out how long you'll have to wear them is to ask your dentist. 4 people found this useful
Then, my orthodontist is saying to wear my temporary retainer 24 hours a day 7 days a week for 6 months! I know my friends who have permanent retainers in both the top and bottom teeth and only have to wear their temporary retainer at night. To be honest, I just don’t want to wear it at school. 
After braces are removed, most patients will need to wear a retainer all the time for the first six months, then only during sleep for many years. The time required for braces varies from person to person, depending on the severity of the problem; the amount of room available; the distance the teeth must travel; the health of the teeth, gums, and supporting bone; and how closely the patient follows instructions.
After 12 months of continuous retainer wear, we often recommend that you to continue to wear your retainers at night 3-5 times a week for life. The reason we recommend this cycle of wear is due to the slow shifting of teeth forward and inward as we get older. Hence the reason for 12 months daily wear of your retainers. You still may be wondering why you need to continue to wear retainers after 12 months. There is more to the story and more tooth biology, so hang in there as we explain it further.
Essix and Hawley appliances are the most frequently used removable retainers. 1  On average, the initial stage of a patient's retention process involved wearing their retainers for 16 hours per day (the range was from 2 to 24 hours), 7 days a week. 1
For how long do I need to wear retainers? It takes time for the bone and all the tissues around your teeth to reorganise and therefore it is necessary to use retainers until your bite stabilises. In the first month after the braces are removed, the risk of relapse is very high. If you have a fixed retainer, you should spend more time to brush the back of your teeth. You have to brush all around the wire so that calculus will not form. You will be instructed on how to use dental floss with a floss-threader. Do remember not to use your front teeth to for biting hard foods or objects.
Typically, you can estimate how long you need to wear a retainer based on however long your teeth were in braces, according to National Dental Centre Singapore. This does not mean you have to wear them all day; you can typically wear the retainer only at night three to six months after your braces come off. Digital Vision./Digital Vision/Getty Images. Depends On Your Condition. How long you need to wear a retainer varies by case, according to Kids Health. Some people may need a retainer for a year to three years to keep teeth from shifting or to close a gap. You may even need a retainer for the rest of your life if you have certain conditions, like teeth grinding
Do I have to Wear Them All the Time? Your orthodontist will prescribe the retention plan that is best for you. Some retainers are used full-time for the first 6 months; after that, the retainers are worn only at night, for a few years. Other retainers are worn full-time for about a week, and solely at night thereafter. Fixed retainers are normally kept in place for 5 years. If you have a fixed retainer, you should spend more time to brush the back of your teeth. You have to brush all around the wire so that calculus will not form. You will be instructed on how to use dental floss with a floss-threader. Do remember not to use your front teeth to for biting hard foods or objects.
You have to discuss with your dentist about the retainers and if you feel that the teeth move then for the time being till you see your orthodontist keep wearing them. Most of the time the retainers have to be worn for then 6 months. For initial 6 months they are worn day and night and after that they are worn for either alternate days or only at night. Some times they have to be worn for the life time and in that case the fixed retainers are given. 