The eruption of Mt. Pinatubo in 1991 stands as the second largest eruption in the 20th Century (Mt. Novarupta, Alaska 1912 claims largest eruption fame). Ash deposits 5 cm (2 in) thick or more covered a land area of about 4,000 square kilometers (1,544 squares miles) burning crops and other plant life around Pinatubo. The effects of the eruption were not limited to the area around Pinatubo. The eruption of Mt. Pinatubo affected weather around the globe. Huge quantities of particles from Pinatubo's tall ash cloud injected into the global wind system in the stratosphere. These particles affected the weather in two ways.
When Mount Pinatubo erupted in the Philippines June 15, 1991, an estimated 20 million tons of sulfur dioxide and ash particles blasted more than 12 miles (20 km) high into the atmosphere. The eruption caused widespread destruction and loss of human life. 
Introduction. The Mount Pinatubo eruption on June 15, 1991 eruption the second largest of the twentieth century and the largest near a densely populated area during the century. The 1912 eruption by Novarupta Volcano was the largest but occurred in a remote area of Alaska where very few people lived. 1991 Mt. Pinatubo eruption. The mountain awakes after 500 years Pinatubo had not erupted for 500 years prior to its climactic eruption in 1991. Scientists had thought the dormant volcano was extinct and would never erupt again. Instead it was a sleeping giant with magma quietly collecting 20 miles beneath the volcano
A huge cloud of volcanic ash and gas rises above Mount Pinatubo, Philippines, on June 12, 1991. Three days later, the volcano exploded in the second-largest volcanic eruption on Earth in this century. The second-largest volcanic eruption of this century, and by far the largest eruption to affect a densely populated area, occurred at Mount Pinatubo in the Philippines on June 15, 1991. The eruption produced high-speed avalanches of hot ash and gas, giant mudflows, and a cloud of volcanic ash hundreds of miles across
stratovolcano. The Mt Pinatubo eruption of 1991 was the second largest eruption of the 20th century. Mount Pinatubo Volcano had been dormant for 400 years. Before 1991 Pinatubo was an inconspicuous volcano which was known to be active in the past 1000 years and was the site of a failed geothermal development. The largest eruption at Mt Pinatubo volcano occurred 35,000 years ago, and produced pyroclastic flow deposits up to 100 m thick on all sides of the volcano. The Sacobia eruption period 17,000 years ago produced two debris flow deposits which are visible on the north bank of the Sacobia River.
Mount Pinatubo (Filipino: Bundok Pinatubo) is an active stratovolcano in the Cabusilan Mountains on the island of Luzon, near the tripoint of the Philippine provinces of Zambales, Tarlac, and Pampanga. Before the volcanic activities of 1991, its eruptive history was unknown to most people. 
The June 15, 1991, explosive eruption of Mount Pinatubo, Philippines, was the second largest volcanic eruption of this century and by far the largest eruption to affect a densely populated area. The second-largest volcanic eruption of this century, and by far the largest eruption to affect a densely populated area, occurred at Mount Pinatubo in the Philippines on June 15, 1991. The eruption produced high-speed avalanches of hot ash and gas, giant mudflows, and a cloud of volcanic ash hundreds of miles across
Mount Pinatubo is an active stratovolcano located on the island of Luzon in the Philippines, at the intersection of the borders of the provinces of Zambales, Tarlac, and Pampanga. Ancestral Pinatubo was a stratovolcano made of andesite and dacite. Before 1991, the mountain was inconspicuous and heavily eroded. 