The appropriate operating temperature of your processor depends on its manufacturer, top clock speed, where the sensor is located, and what programs it is currently running. However, this document should give you a general idea of what temperatures are acceptable under certain conditions. The majority of today's desktop processors should not exceed temperatures of 35°C and most run between 21°-32°C. Below is a chart listing many types of processors and their average temperatures. Keep in mind, this is only to give our users a general idea of what their processor should be running at.
1 In addition to showing the temperature and load of the processor, it also shows the CPU's TjMax or safe maximum operating temperature and how far from this maximum temp your processor is running at. 
You can check the specifications of your particular CPU at www.cpu-world.com which details the maximum operating temperature for many processors. In general you should consider 60 degrees Celcius the absolute maximum for long periods, but aim for 45-50 degrees to be safe. We're not talking about room temperature. Most CPU run over 100 degrees fahrenheit. The link that Jim Martin gave for http://www.cpu-world.com/ gives all the information on CPU temperatures.
First of all, you need a CPU temperature monitoring program in order to measure what your current CPU temperature is. There are many good processor monitoring applications out there and it is most likely that there is one on the CD which came with your motherboard. 
The full-load temperature on correctly functioning processors will be less than the CPU's maximum operating temperature. The Intel Core i7-4765T and i7-920 CPUs both have maximum operating temperatures of 66 and 68 degrees Celsius, respectively (150 and 154 Fahrenheit). Both CPUs would run between 46 and 48 degrees Celsius (115 and 118 Fahrenheit) under a moderate workload. Unless you're running the Core i7 CPU under a constant full workload, the average temperature would be somewhere between the idle and moderate workload range.
The average temperature of an Intel Core i7 processor depends on the processor model, how hard the CPU is working and the computer case ambient temperature. The Core i7 branding name refers to the higher-end models within multiple Intel processor generations. Both CPUs would run between 46 and 48 degrees Celsius (115 and 118 Fahrenheit) under a moderate workload. Unless you're running the Core i7 CPU under a constant full workload, the average temperature would be somewhere between the idle and moderate workload range.
So if your CPU's maximum temperature is 100C, and you're running at 60C, the sensor will report -40 as its value. There are two ways a program can report an inaccurate temperature. First, if the program isn't set with the right maximum temperature for your CPU, all the scores will be offset that that error. So, 100C is the maximum operating temperature of Intel Core i7. However, due to the great power management, we have never seen instability due to temperature. We can run full stress testing at 100C and have no errors.
Join us as we reveal Intel and AMD CPU temps during idle, normal and maximum load. All temperatures listed on this page are for CPUs running at default speeds with stock coolers. To give you a better understanding of Intel and AMD CPU operating temps, we have included their temperatures at different usage levels: 1  Idle Temperature-Computer idling at Windows desktop (no open windows or programs). Room Temperature. Ambient room temperatures can affect CPU temps by 5 to 10°C. As a rough gauge, 1°C rise in room temperature = 1 to 1.5°C rise in CPU temps. That's why experienced hardware reviewers and overclockers will factor in their ambient room temperature when taking temperature readings.
You can approximate the average temperature a given CPU should run at based on the maximum operating temperature. CPUs fluctuate between 20 to 30 degrees Celsius (36 to 54 Fahrenheit) in normal use between idle and full-load. Both CPUs would run between 46 and 48 degrees Celsius (115 and 118 Fahrenheit) under a moderate workload. Unless you're running the Core i7 CPU under a constant full workload, the average temperature would be somewhere between the idle and moderate workload range.
Best Answer: It depends on your processor and GPU. Every processor has its own temperature ranges and operating limits (you were NOT specific as to which CPU and which GPU you have). 50 C is typical for a normal Pentium or E, Q type Intel duo or quad core.