The king cobra is distributed across the Indian subcontinent, Southeast Asia, and the southern areas of East Asia (where it is not common), in Bangladesh, Bhutan, Burma, Cambodia, China, India, Indonesia, Laos, Nepal, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, and Vietnam. They can be distinguished from other cobras by size and hood. King cobras are generally larger than other cobras, and the stripe on the neck is a chevron instead of a double or single eye shape that may be seen in most of the other Asian cobras. Moreover, the hood of the king cobra is narrower and longer.
King cobras can be found throughout Southeast Asia, from India to Southern China to Malaysia, Indonesia and the Philippines.     The King Cobra is widespread throughou … t Southeast Asia and parts of  India, and is found mostly in forested areas.    It is found in the Southeast Asian rainforest. The average King Cobra lives 20 years. The King Cobra is an efficient killer and usually doesn't have too many enemies.
King cobras can be found throughout Southeast Asia, from India to Southern China to Malaysia, Indonesia and the Philippines. The King Cobra is widespread throughout Southeast Asia and parts of India, and is found mostly in forested areas. It is found in the Southeast Asian rainforest. Because of destruction of rainforests it also can be seen in South Asia, East Asia and southern China. King cobras live mainly in the rain forests and plains of India, southern China, and Southeast Asia. They live in trees, on land, and in the water. They are the only snakes th … at build nests for their eggs, which they guard ferociously until the hatchlings leave.
Where do King Cobras Live. 22 Feb, 2010 animals 0. The king cobra is one of the most interesting snake species in the entire world. Not only is it the longest venomous snake (growing up to 5.7 meters in length), but it is known as a snake eater which means that it mainly feeds on other snakes. It is well known as one of the most dangerous snakes in the Asian region where the king cobras live. They populate south and south-east Asia (countries including Indonesia, Philippines, Thailand, Vietnam, Burma).
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: King cobras live mainly in the rain forests and plains of India, southern China, and Southeast Asia, and their coloring can vary greatly from region to region. They are comfortable in the trees, on land, and in water, feeding mainly on other snakes, venomous and nonvenomous. In southern India, people kill a dozen or more king cobras each year when the snakes stray into tea estates and villages. The king s natural realm stretches from India eastward to Vietnam, southern China, and the Philippines, and southeast through Malaysia and Indonesia.
The king cobra (Ophiophagus hannah) is an elapid found predominantly in forests from India through Southeast Asia. This species is the world's longest venomous snake, with a length up to 18.5 to 18.8 ft (5.6 to 5.7 m). They can be distinguished from other cobras by size and hood. King cobras are generally larger than other cobras, and the stripe on the neck is a chevron instead of a double or single eye shape that may be seen in most of the other Asian cobras. Moreover, the hood of the king cobra is narrower and longer.
Fortunately, king cobras are shy and will avoid humans whenever possible, but they are fiercely aggressive when cornered. King cobras live mainly in the rain forests and plains of India, southern China, and Southeast Asia, and their coloring can vary greatly from region to region. They are comfortable in the trees, on land, and in water, feeding mainly on other snakes, venomous and nonvenomous. 
Best Answer: King cobras live mainly in the rain forests and plains of India, southern China, and Southeast Asia, and their coloring can vary greatly from region to region. In southern India, people kill a dozen or more king cobras each year when the snakes stray into tea estates and villages. The king s natural realm stretches from India eastward to Vietnam, southern China, and the Philippines, and southeast through Malaysia and Indonesia.
Cobras live in hot tropical areas in Africa, Australia, and Southern Asia and their relatives, the Coral Snake, can be found in the United States. They can be found underground, in trees, and under rocks. The King Cobra is not only an excellent climber but a super swimmer as well. They live in forests near streams. 