A healthy cat can tolerate a lot of wintry cold if it gets enough food and has shelter (a cave, a hollow somewhere, under the porch, etc.). When I was a child, we took our cat on vacation to Upper Michigan and the cat ran away when we stopped to visit a friend of dad's up there. 
We have a kitten who came to us during the summer months. We live in the mountains of North Carolina, and we’re wondering about the cold weather. Our cat is strictly an outside cat, but we thought we would put him in the basement on nights that were very cold. Cats can get too hot or too cold outdoors. My 3 kitty boys have pet doors that allow them to go out when they wish or to come in when they wish. At night they come in to stay which they choose to do by themselves anyway. We have owned 3 different outdoor cats in Nebraska, where below 0 weather is common in the winter. We solved this problem by installing a cat door in the bottom of our garage door, and buying heated cat beds to put inside the regular cat bed in the garage, someplace up off the floor
Answers. Actually, cats are usually comfortable in the same temps as we humans are. When my DH turns the heat down to 59, all 5 animals and I are freezing. Unless you have a small apartment or house that retains heat well, 60 is kind of chilly. I'd go a few degrees higher. And, provide your kitty with a nice warm bed or kitty tent, put by a heater vent, where your baby can go if it does get cold. The only exception to above is if any of your cats are very old/young or have a chronic disease and then I'd check with your vet 1st as they may need higher temperatures than normal. You can also get heated beds that use very little energy or beds that reflect back body heat etc.
Drop the thermometer and take a deep breath. It's OK -- your dog or cat's temperature is normally between 100 and 102 degrees Fahrenheit, but minor fluctuations are normal. Dogs lean toward the upper end of the spectrum, cats roost at the bottom end. When the mercury drops below freezing, most dogs and cats can only endure 10 or 15 minutes outdoors -- fewer still if it's windy. Cold temperatures can cause frostbite and hypothermia.
Best Answer. They seem to tolerate the cold weather very well. We also have a feral that we take care of. He has a Dogloo dog house on our porch (facing the house so the wind can not blow into it) that we pack with a thick crate liner and fleece throws. We also put a heated disc inside his house when he comes out to eat. 
Hyperthermia in Cats. In spite of their reputation as desert animals, cats do not tolerate heat any better than people. Cats only pant or sweat through their foot pads in order to get rid of excess heat. As the body temperature rises, the cat will suffer heat exhaustion and eventually heat stroke. 
A cat’s temperature tolerance can vary from pet to pet, based on their coat, body fat stores, activity level, age, and health. However, despite this, no pet should be left outside for long periods of time in below freezing weather. Winter time can be especially dangerous for felines as a warm vehicle engine may seem like an appealing heat source for outdoor and feral cats. This can result in injury or even death. It is a common belief that cats and dogs are more resistant than people to cold weather because of their fur coats, however this assumption is untrue. Just like people, your feline friend is susceptible to frostbite and hypothermia and should therefore be kept inside during cold weather.
Burrr. If it's too cold for you outside, it's probably too cold for your pets. Dogs and cats usually fair better than their masters outdoors, but freezing weather can still lead to frostbite and hypothermia in minutes. Even outdoor pets should spend the night indoors when it's dangerously cold. When the mercury drops below freezing, most dogs and cats can only endure 10 or 15 minutes outdoors -- fewer still if it's windy. Cold temperatures can cause frostbite and hypothermia.