I need one for $19,250.00. Do i have to get 20 of them in increments of $1,000 each (and 1 for $250) or can I just get 1 money order for the whole amount? I am a Wells Fargo customer who will bring cash. The teller is required to fill out some paperwork, inclusing a Possible Suspicious Activity Report; don't be alarmed--this is a standard procedure. The cost may vary from state to state, and can even be waived depending on your acoount relationship(s), but it is usually around $8.
Fees may vary based on the type of account you have as some accounts offer fee waivers for some services. For a comprehensive list of services and fee waivers that are available with your account, please consult the Consumer Account Fee and Information Schedule or the Business Account Fee and Information Schedule. This fee is charged for each purchase made with your debit card in a foreign currency that a network converts into a U.S. dollar amount. 3% of transaction amount. Debit Card Over-The-Counter Cash Disbursement. Withdraw cash with your debit card at a Non-Wells Fargo bank location.
It doesn`t cost anything to open a debit/ checking account at wells fargo.... 0. 0. It doesn`t cost anything to open a debit/ checking account at Wells Fargo; you do, however, have to deposit fifty dollars into the account when you first open it. THIS IS A MUST. You still get to keep the fifty dollars, though. You can also move the money over form a savings account to do this. 
Economical. Send money at competitive exchange rates for low transfer fees with the Wells Fargo ExpressSend Service. Convenient. You can send money online, through the Wells Fargo Phone Bank SM, or at a Wells Fargo store location. Your beneficiary can easily access the money, either by cash pick-up or by having the funds deposited into an account at the receiving institution. Dependable. 
check book image by Rob Hill from Fotolia.com. Wells Fargo makes money orders up to $1,000 available for purchase by their customers. A money order can be cashed like a check but doesn't show any account numbers or financial information about you other than your name, the name of the bank and your address information. You pay for the money order when you purchase it. Only Wells Fargo customers can purchase Wells Fargo money orders. Instructions. Write full name of the recipient business or person in the Pay to the Order Of line. Write the address of the recipient in the address line. If you do not know the address, it's okay to leave this blank. Write your name, address and account number, if applicable, on the memo line. Sign the money order.
Annual rental fee for your Wells Fargo Safe Deposit Box. Varies by size. Safe Deposit Late Fee — 60 days. If your annual fee is over 60 days delinquent, you will be charged a fee. This fee is charged for each purchase made with your debit card in a foreign currency that a network converts into a U.S. dollar amount. 3% of transaction amount. Debit Card Over-The-Counter Cash Disbursement. Withdraw cash with your debit card at a Non-Wells Fargo bank location.
If you have questions or prefer us to mail you a copy of the Fee and Information Schedule, please contact your Banker or call us at one of the numbers listed below. 1  Consumer accounts, please call us at 1-800-TO-WELLS (1-800-869-3557). 2  Business accounts, please call us at 1-800-CALL-WELLS (1-800-225-5935). This fee is charged for each purchase made with your debit card in a foreign currency that a network converts into a U.S. dollar amount. 3% of transaction amount. Debit Card Over-The-Counter Cash Disbursement. Withdraw cash with your debit card at a Non-Wells Fargo bank location.
Since many financial institutions do not list an amount for money order fees, the best way to determine how much your local bank charges is to find a nearby branch. Most banks charge $5, $10, or 10 percent of the total amount on the money order. The local (Los Angeles) Wells Fargo, Chase, and U.S. Bank charge a flat rate of $5 and only offer domestic money orders. Related: MyBankTracker tests how long it takes for a personal check, cashier’s check and money order to clear. – Most banks charge $5, $10, or 10 percent of the total amount on the money order. Money orders are a solid form of payment that is accepted just about anywhere. Don’t get them confused with a cashier’s check, which is only obtainable from your bank.
– The general fee for money orders can range from 50 cents to $10 and up, depending on where you get one. – Western Union fees: could range anywhere from 50 cents to $1.50 and more. – Most banks charge $5, $10, or 10 percent of the total amount on the money order. The local (Los Angeles) Wells Fargo, Chase, and U.S. Bank charge a flat rate of $5 and only offer domestic money orders. Related: MyBankTracker tests how long it takes for a personal check, cashier’s check and money order to clear. – Most banks charge $5, $10, or 10 percent of the total amount on the money order. Money orders are a solid form of payment that is accepted just about anywhere. Don’t get them confused with a cashier’s check, which is only obtainable from your bank.