Boarding a flight, especially for those flying for the first time, can present numerous questions. Airport security is increasingly tighter, and it is important to arrive at the airport with the correct identification in order to fly --- although a passport is not typically required for a domestic U.S. flight.
It sounds crazy, but next year, millions of Americans might have to start using passports to fly -- on domestic flights. A decade ago, the U.S. government issued stricter standards for state-issued IDs, including drivers licenses. But four states have refused to comply: Louisiana, Minnesota, New Hampshire and New York.
Sometimes this requirement can be fulfilled at the airport upon arrival in the country. Other countries require a visa to be obtained prior to arrival in their country. For countries that require a pre-travel visa, the visa must in your passport when you check-in for your flight. Individually issued visas are typically permanently attached to your passport. If you are flying with a group, you may have a group visa.
Passport. Officials will always accept a valid U.S. passport book or passport card for domestic travel. You can also use your passport book for international travel, but a U.S. passport card can only be used as identification if you're returning to the United States from Canada, the Caribbean, Bermuda and Mexico.
The passport card that is available for sea and land travel in North America, Mexico and the Caribbean is not valid for flying. You need to present your passport when you check in for your flight and at security checkpoints, and some airlines require a passport check before you board the plane.
The deadline for upgrading is coming up in 2016. If those four states don't upgrade their ID systems by the deadline, the TSA will demand that residents of those four states use passports rather than drivers licenses to board flights next year.
In most airports, a driver’s license is an acceptable form of identification. But if you’re flying out of an Oklahoma airport, you’ll need a passport, even if you’re not leaving the country.
Children under the age of 16 do not need to show ID on domestic routes. The adult they are travelling with can vouch for the infant's/child's identification, providing the relevant photo ID is shown (by the adult). On International routes a passport will be required.