Its source is in the Guinea Highlands in southeastern Guinea. It runs in a crescent through Mali, Niger, on the border with Benin and then through Nigeria, discharging through a massive delta, known as the Niger Delta or the Oil Rivers, into the Gulf of Guinea in the Atlantic Ocean. The Niger is called Jeliba or Joliba great river in Manding; Orimiri or Orimili great water in Igbo; Egerew n-Igerewen river of rivers in Tuareg; Isa Ber big river in Songhay; Kwara in Hausa; and Oya in Yoruba.
It flows from its source in the Guinea Highlands in south-eastern Guinea and runs in a crescent through Mali, Niger, on the border with Benin and then through Nigeria, d … ischarging through a massive delta, known as the Niger Delta of the Oil Rivers, into the Gulf of Guinea. 10 people found this useful. 
Mali is a country that is situated in the west of Africa. The Niger  River runs through Mali and is the third longest river in Africa. Timbuktu was a major city in Mali made prosperous by the tenth Masa of the Mali Empire. Mansa Musa. It was the centre for great learning during the 15th and 16th Centuries.
The Niger River (/ˈnaɪdʒər/ NY-jər; French : (le) fleuve Niger, [(lə) floev flœv]) niʒɛʁ is the principal river of Western, africa extending 4,180 4180 (2,600 2600). Mi its drainage basin 2,117,700 2117700 km (817,600 817600 sq) mi in. area The Niger is called Jeliba or Joliba great river in Manding; Orimiri or Orimili great water in Igbo; Egerew n-Igerewen river of rivers in Tuareg; Isa Ber big river in Songhay; Kwara in Hausa; and Oya in Yoruba.
In the lower part of the country 2% of the land is covered with forests and woodlands. The third longest river in Africa, the Niger River, runs in a crescent from the Guinea Highlands through Mali, and makes up part of the Benin-Niger border. It is Niger's lowest point at 656 ft (200 m). In northern Niger, the Air Mountains punctuate the Sahara desert with a series of nine massifs. 
What major river passes throug mali? already exists. already exists as an alternate of this question. exists and is an alternate of. How would you compare The Rule of Thoughts and The Eye of Minds? What river flows from mali to Senegal? What major river was important to the people of mali why? What major river runs through Mali? How many rivers ... Timbuktu was a major city in Mali made prosperous by the tenth Masa of the Mali Empire. Mansa Musa. It was the centre for great learning during the 15th and 16th Centuries.
River Irtysh is the major tributary of the Ob River of western Siberia. It emerges from the Altay Mountains and passes through Siberia, China as well as Kazakhstan. The gigantic river is 4,248 kilometers in length with an enormous basin area covering 1,643,000 square kilometers. The longest river of Asia and the third longest in the world, the Yangtze River flows through China. It originates from the Geladaindong Peak in Qinghai and covers a distance of 6,300 kilometers before meeting its fate at Shanghai where it joins the East China Sea.
Congo River. One of the world's major rivers, the Congo is nearly 3,000 miles long, making it the second-largest river in Africa. With depths measured at more than 750 feet, the Congo is the deepest river in the world. Volta River. Formed by the confluence of the Black, White and Red Voltas, the Volta River is a relatively shallow watercourse that flows through Burkina Faso and Ghana before reaching its mouth at the Gulf of Guinea on Africa's Atlantic coast.
It is the largest river in western Africa. Facts About the Niger River Length 2,590 miles Source(s) Guinea Mouth Gulf of Guinea, Atlantic Ocean Countries Flows Through Benin, Guinea, Mali, Niger, and Nigeria Cities Flows By/Through Bamako, Tombouctou, Mali; Niamey, Niger. The 25 Longest Rivers in the World  The River as a Lifeline  The River as a Boundary  Geography links. The river begins in Guinea and runs east through Benin, Guinea, Mali, Niger, and Nigeria. The source is an almost 90-degree turn south, to the Gulf of Guinea. One of the main sources of income from the river is oil