Georgia plumbing license requirements are set by, and licenses issued by, the state. In Georgia, the plumber must be licensed even if working for a licensed plumbing contractor. For an overview of how U.S. Plumbing License Requirements work, refer back to the Plumbing License Requirements homepage. There is no charge for the initial license, but renewals cost $35.00. 3. Submit a completed application at least 60 days prior to the exam. 4. Provide three (3) references from licensed plumbers, including a Master Plumber, attesting to the applicant’s good character and plumbing qualifications.
We recommended that you set your margins to 0.5 for best results. CLICK HERE TO DOWNLOAD STATE APPLICATIONS AND INFORMATION! Georgia law requires anyone who does plumbing either as a contractor or as an employee of a contractor to have a current Georgia State License as a Master Plumber or Journeyman Plumber. 
Applying to get your License. It will cost you $25 to file an application for a plumbing license. The master license costs $125 and the journeyman license costs $60. A plumbing license is good for one year.
Plumbing is a skilled trade. In order to work independently as a licensed plumber, you will need to apply for a license and meet the eligibility criteria. Florida allows plumbers to be either registered locally or licensed by the state. You will only be able to apply to take the exams, if you pass all of the following eligibility standards: 1  You must be 18 or older. 2  You must have at least 4 years of experience as a plumber. 3  You must pass a criminal background check. 4  You must be able to prove your financial stability. 5  You must have both property damage insurance and public ...
If you have at least 4 years of experience as a plumber, proof of financial stability, insurance and a bond, then you may have the necessary requirements to become a licensed plumber in Florida. The licensing process can take up to 4 years and requires renewal every 2 years. You will only be able to apply to take the exams, if you pass all of the following eligibility standards: 1  You must be 18 or older. 2  You must have at least 4 years of experience as a plumber. 3  You must pass a criminal background check. 4  You must be able to prove your financial stability. 5  You must have both property damage insurance and public ...
2. Plumber License: In Florida, the Journeyman Plumber and the Master Plumber must also be licensed. This is a different license than that obtained by the contractor. A Florida plumbing license is issued by the locality in which the plumber wants to work.
1 You must have at least 4 years of experience as a plumber. 2  This may be proven with wage stubs, tax returns and certifications by other master plumbers. 3  Up to 3 years of that experience may be provided with proof of a qualifying degree. You will only be able to apply to take the exams, if you pass all of the following eligibility standards: 1  You must be 18 or older. 2  You must have at least 4 years of experience as a plumber. 3  You must pass a criminal background check. 4  You must be able to prove your financial stability. 5  You must have both property damage insurance and public ...
As of 2010, the fee is $57.25. Obtain insurance for general liability and property damage. As of 2010, Florida requires applicants for a plumber's license to get coverage for $100,000 for bodily injury and $25,000 for property damage. You must also obtain workers' compensation insurance or get an exemption from the Division of Workers' Compensation within 30 days after obtaining your license. 
2. Submit your application 60 days before you take the plumbing exam. You will not be able to take the exam if you have not submitted an application. 3. Obtain a copy of the Georgia State License application. Fill out an application for the plumbing exam by downloading the form on www.goamp.com. You can also call them at (913) 541-0400 to get an application form. 1  Apply 3 months ahead of your preferred exam date. 2  For example, for the December 2012 window, you will need to apply to take the exam by September 21, 2012.
Requirements to Obtaining your License. 1  A Plumbing Contractors license is required in Florida for any job that involves the trade. 2  Applicants must document four years of experience. 3  The minimum general liability insurance that is required for licensure is $100,000 for bodily injury and $25,000 for property damage. 1 A Plumbing Contractors license is required in Florida for any job that involves the trade. 2  Anyone seeking to become a plumbing contractor in Florida is required to sit for two exams, business and finance and the trade. 3