Legumes consist of seeds that are covered by a pod or shell. This classification of foods, which includes beans, lentils, peanuts and peas, is high in both soluble and insoluble fiber. Black beans, kidney beans and navy beans are especially high in soluble fiber. Each contains at least 2 grams per 1/2-cup serving. Certain varieties have more soluble fiber than insoluble, such as apricots, grapefruit, mangoes and oranges. A small orange has 1.8 grams of soluble and 1.1 grams of
Soluble fiber is not found in foods like bran and raw leafy green vegetables. Soluble fiber is important for the management of blood cholesterol and keeping cancer away. This page gives a detailed list of foods with soluble and insoluble fiber content.
Breakfast foods high in soluble fiber are a great start to your day. Look for whole-grain hot cereals like oatmeal. You can also select a ready-to-eat whole-grain cereal made from bran, or toast a slice of whole-grain bread and top it with 2 tablespoon of crunchy almond or peanut butter. Plan ahead so you have plenty of snack foods that are high in soluble fiber and low in fat and sugar. You can munch on a handful of figs, dates, blackberries or blueberries, or peel a banana and enjoy it as a mid-day snack. Keep snack-size bags of sliced carrots, zucchini and cauliflower close at hand.
Oat, bran and barley are highest in soluble fiber. Oatmeal provides a total of 4 grams of dietary fiber per serving. Of the 4 grams of dietary fiber, 2 grams are soluble fiber. Bran provides 6 grams of dietary fiber per one-quarter cup. One serving of bran cereal provides up to 3 grams of soluble fiber. Barley, bulgur, whole wheat spaghetti and wheat germ contain 4 grams of dietary fiber including 1 gram of soluble fiber. 
Brussels sprouts have one of the highest amounts of soluble fiber. A 1/2-cup serving contains 2 grams. Turnips, sweet potatoes and asparagus all have 1.7 grams or more. Brussels sprouts and turnips belong to the cruciferous family of vegetables, which contain substances called glucosinolates. Certain varieties have more soluble fiber than insoluble, such as apricots, grapefruit, mangoes and oranges. A small orange has 1.8 grams of soluble and 1.1 grams of in
Most plant-based foods, such as oatmeal and beans, contain both soluble and insoluble fiber. However, the amount of each type varies in different plant foods. To receive the greatest health benefit, eat a wide variety of high-fiber foods. 
Yes, it is. Soluble fiber foods are the IBS good foods! Soluble fiber is the single greatest IBS diet aid for preventing Irritable Bowel Syndrome symptoms in the first place, as well as relieving them once they occur. Here's the kicker. Soluble fiber is NOT typically found in foods most people think of as fiber, such as bran or raw leafy green vegetables.
You can find soluble fiber in onions, chicory root, bananas, Jerusalem artichoke, oats and oatmeal, apples and strawberries, psyllium (Metamucil) and certain vegetables. These foods help the healthy bacteria that live in the lower gut reproduce, as they stifle the production of bad, disease-causing bacteria. Whole grain foods, dark leafy vegetables, fruit, nuts and seeds all contain insoluble fiber. Soluble fiber, on the other hand, creates a gel-like texture in your gut when mixed with liquid in your digestive tract.
Soluble Fiber Foods ~ the IBS Good Foods of the IBS Diet. As a general rule, the grain and cereal foods at the top of this list make the safest, easiest, and most versatile soluble fiber foundations for your meals and snacks These are your IBS safe foods, and your IBS good foods. [1]. Soluble fiber is the single greatest IBS diet aid for preventing Irritable Bowel Syndrome symptoms in the first place, as well as relieving them once they occur. Here's the kicker. Soluble fiber is NOT typically found in foods most people think of as fiber, such as bran or raw leafy green vegetables.
Foods appearing fiberous need not be high in fiber like lettuce. The whole grains, cereals, fruits, vegetables and nuts, in general, are good sources of soluble fibers. Given below is a list of foods with soluble and insoluble fiber content and their total fiber content. The following list suggests that psyllium husk, oat bran, parsnips, peas, potatoes, lentils, kidneybeans, etc. are rich soluble fiber sources. Soluble fiber is important for the management of blood cholesterol and keeping cancer away. This page gives a detailed list of foods with soluble and insoluble