Types of viral infections. Probably the most common viral infections are. Respiratory infections: Infections of the nose, throat, upper airways, and lungs. The most common respiratory infections are upper respiratory infections, which include sore throat, sinusitis, and the common cold. Viruses usually infect one particular type of cell. For example, common cold viruses infect only cells of the upper respiratory tract. Additionally, most viruses infect only a few species of plants or animals. Some infect only people. Many viruses commonly infect infants and children (see Viral Infections in Infants and Children)
Tuberculosis: Tuberculosis (TB) is a bacterial infection of the lungs that is caused by the microorganism Mycobacterium tuberculosis. Symptoms may include cough, shortness of breath, pleurisy (inflamed membranes around the lungs), fever, weight loss, night sweats, chills, and loss of appetite. Bacteria cause different diseases depending on the specific type of bacteria and where they are in the body. Examples of bacterial infections include cellulitis, cholera, Fournier's gangrene, methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA), trachoma, and
examples of infections. Cellulitis: Cellulitis is a bacterial infection of the deep layers of the skin. The bacteria that cause the infection may enter the skin through a cut, scrape, scratch, or other wound. The infected area may become red, hot, swollen, irritated, and painful. Other symptoms may include fever, chills, and muscle aches. Bacteria cause different diseases depending on the specific type of bacteria and where they are in the body. Examples of bacterial infections include cellulitis, cholera, Fournier's gangrene, methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA), trachoma, and tuberculosis.
Virus latency (or viral latency) is the ability of a pathogenic virus to lie dormant (latent) within a cell, denoted as the lysogenic part of the viral life cycle. A latent viral infection is a type of persistent viral infection which is distinguished from a chronic viral infection. Latency is the phase in certain viruses' life cycles in which, after initial infection, proliferation of virus particles ceases. However, the viral genome is not fully eradicated.
Viral skin infections can range from mild to severe and often produce a rash. Examples of viral skin infections include: 1  Molluscum contagiosum causes small, flesh-colored bumps most often in children ages 1 to 10 years old; however, people of any age can acquire the virus. 2  The bumps usually disappear without treatment, usually in 6 to 12 months. These viruses are most commonly spread by inhaling droplets containing virus particles. Examples include: 1  Rhinovirus is the virus that most often causes the common cold, but there are more than 200 different viruses that can cause colds.
Other viral respiratory infections include influenza and pneumonia. In small children, viruses also commonly cause croup (which is inflammation of the upper and lower airways, called laryngotracheobronchitis) or lower airways (bronchiolitis—see Bronchiolitis). Viruses usually infect one particular type of cell. For example, common cold viruses infect only cells of the upper respiratory tract. Additionally, most viruses infect only a few species of plants or animals. Some infect only people. Many viruses commonly infect infants and children (see Viral Infections in Infants and Children
Acute viral infections. An acute viral infection is characterized by rapid onset of disease, a relatively brief period of symptoms, and resolution within days. It is usually accompanied by early production of infectious virions and elimination of infection by the host immune system. An example of a classic acute infection is uncomplicated influenza. Virus particles are inhaled in droplets produced by sneezing or coughing, and begin replicating in ciliated columnar epithelial cells of the respiratory tract.
Viral diseases are extremely widespread infections caused by viruses, a type of microorganism. There are many types of viruses that cause a wide variety of viral diseases. The most common type of viral disease is the common cold, which is caused by a viral infection of the upper respiratory tract (nose and throat). Other common viral diseases include: Chickenpox. Flu (influenza). Herpes. Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV/AIDS). Human papillomavirus (HPV). Infectious mononucleosis.
Respiratory viral infections affect the lungs, nose, and throat. These viruses are most commonly spread by inhaling droplets containing virus particles. Examples include: 1  Rhinovirus is the virus that most often causes the common cold, but there are more than 200 different viruses that can cause colds. 2  Cold symptoms like coughing, sneezing, mild headache, and sore throat typically last for up to 2 weeks