At home in 1952. Mario Lanza was a monster. In a 1999 review of Roland L. Bessette's Mario Lanza: Tenor in Exile, an unrelentingly critical portrait of the tenor, Lee Milazzo wrote in the American Record Guide that, Mario Lanza lived a life of excess. 
Mario Lanza. by Derek McGovern. The American tenor Mario Lanza possessed, in the opinion of Richard Tucker, “the voice of the [twentieth] century.” To successive generations of opera stars, from Carreras to Calleja, he was the singer who inspired their careers. And yet Lanza performed only two operatic roles in his short life. Mario Lanza was born Alfred Cocozza in South Philadelphia in 1921. Besotted with opera from a very early age, he was sixteen when his own vocal endowment became apparent, and he was soon appearing in local operatic productions. In 1940 he began studying repertoire with soprano Irene Williams.
According to Green, Lanza possessed the voice of the next Caruso. [Lanza] had an unusual, very unusual quality...a tenor with a baritone color in the middle and lower registers, and a great feeling for the making of music. A great musicality. I found it fascinating, musically, to work with [him]. Had [Lanza] been already a leading tenor, if not the leading tenor at the Met[ropolitan Opera House], and come to Hollywood in between seasons to make a picture, he would have had [the security of having] the Met as his home, Green remarked.
Damon Lanza, son of the great tenor Mario Lanza, was his father's greatest ambassador. Renowned as Ireland’s finest tenor, Mr. Kearns is best known as the founding member of the Irish Tenors and continues to tour with them yearly. 
Lanza was born with one of the dozen or so great tenor voices of the century, with a natural voice placement, an unmistakable and very pleasing timbre, and a nearly infallible musical instinct.. I had heard all sorts of stories about Mario [Lanza]. Had [Lanza] been already a leading tenor, if not the leading tenor at the Met[ropolitan Opera House], and come to Hollywood in between seasons to make a picture, he would have had [the security of having] the Met as his home, Green remarked.
About Mario Lanza. The American lirico spinto tenor Mario Lanza (1921-1959) possessed, in the opinion of Placido Plácido, domingo one of the truly great natural tenor voices of the past—century a voice of, beauty, passion and.. power 
I think of all the tenor voices Mario lanza's voice had more power more feeling and his diction was perfect. My grandfather heard both Caruso and Lanza in person it took many years and one day he told me that not even Caruso had the power that Lanza did. What I've heard, Mario Cocozza (Lanza) had the most God gifted tenor voice, Hollywood screwed him up and killed him at a young age (38) for opera type singers.
American tenor. Described by Arturo Toscanini as the greatest voice of the 20th century, Mario Lanza was born Alfredo Arnoldo Cocozza on 31 January 1921 in Philadelphia. His parents were Italian 'emigres.