Parasitic infections can be caused by three types of organisms: protozoa, helminths, and ectoparasites. Protozoa are single-celled organisms that can live and multiply inside of humans. Some infections caused by protozoa include giardiasis. Not every parasitic infection has a treatment, and some infections can recur. Trichomoniasis can be treated with antibiotics. Giardiasis and cryptosporidiosis can also be treated with medications. Toxoplamosis is usually not treated with a medication unless it is severe and prolonged.
Parasitic infection can range from fleas, to bed bugs, to scabies, and worms. Parasites generally live on a host causing the host a number of symptoms such as itching, allergic reactions, and discomfort. Treatment for parasites include creams and ointments used to eliminate them and treat the symptoms.
A parasite is an organism that lives on or in a host organism and gets its food from or at the expense of its host. There are three main classes of parasites that can cause disease in humans: protozoa, helminths, and ectoparasites. 
Overview. Parasites are microorganisms that live off of other organisms, or hosts, to survive. Some parasites don’t affect the host. Others grow, reproduce, or give off toxins that make the host sick resulting in a parasitic infection. Parasitic infections are a large problem in tropical and subtropical regions. Not every parasitic infection has a treatment, and some infections can recur. Trichomoniasis can be treated with antibiotics. Giardiasis and cryptosporidiosis can also be treated with medications. Toxoplamosis is usually not treated with a medication unless it is severe and prolonged.
Drugs that eliminate parasites are available for most infections. A parasite is an organism that lives on or inside another organism (the host) and harms the host. Parasitic infections are common in rural or developing areas of Africa, Asia, and Latin America and are less common in developed areas. A person who visits such an area can unknowingly acquire a parasitic infection, and a doctor may not readily diagnose the infection when the person returns home.
Top 10 facts about the world. Parasitic infection is contamination of one organism with another living organism that then begins to feed off or reside in the initial organism. The Giardia parasite can be ingested by drinking untreated water. Diarrhea and vomiting may result from a parasitic infection. Parasites often infect a person's gastrointestinal tract. Stool samples that are collected at home are usually placed into plastic containers.