Conductivity (or specific conductance) of an electrolyte solution is a measure of its ability to conduct electricity. The SI unit of conductivity is siemens per meter (S/m). An alternating voltage is used in order to avoid electrolysis. The resistance is measured by a conductivity meter. Typical frequencies used are in the range 1–3 kHz. The dependence on the frequency is usually small, but may become appreciable at very high frequencies, an effect known as the Debye–Falkenhagen effect.
High quality deionized water has a conductivity of about 5.5 μS/m, typical drinking water in the range of 5-50 mS/m, while sea water about 5 S/m (i.e., sea water's conductivity is one million times higher than that of deionized water). An alternating voltage is used in order to avoid electrolysis. The resistance is measured by a conductivity meter. Typical frequencies used are in the range 1–3 kHz. The dependence on the frequency is usually small, but may become appreciable at very high frequencies, an effect known as the Debye–Falkenhagen effect.
Temperature changes will have a greater effect on the conductivity of deionized water (or any nearly pure water), due to the molar equivalent conductivity of H+ and OH-in the absence of other ions 3. Instead of increasing conductivity by 2-3% per degree Celsius, it may increase by approximately 5% per degree Celsius 3. While freshwater sources have a low conductivity and seawater has a high conductivity, there is no set standard for the conductivity of water. Instead, some organizations and regions have set limits on total dissolved solids for bodies of water 14,37.
Pure water has a resistance of 18.2 Mohm*cm 5. Resistivity decreases as the ionic concentration in water increases. A fun way to remember that resistivity and conductivity are reciprocals (1/measurement) is in the unit name – mho and ohm are the same letters, in reverse. While freshwater sources have a low conductivity and seawater has a high conductivity, there is no set standard for the conductivity of water. Instead, some organizations and regions have set limits on total dissolved solids for bodies of water 14,37.
Silver has the highest conductivity of any metals: 63 x 10 6 S/m. Water conductivity. Pure water is not a good conductor of electricity. Ordinary distilled water in equilibrium with carbon dioxide of the air has a conductivity of about 10 x 10 -6 W -1 *m -1 (20 dS/m). Because the electrical current is transported by the ions in solution, the conductivity increases as the concentration of ions increases. Thus conductivity increases as water dissolved ionic species. Ultra pure water 5.5 · 10 -6 S/m. Drinking water 0.005 – 0.05 S/m. 
When water temperature increases, so will conductivity 3. For every 1°C increase, conductivity values can increase 2-4% 3. Temperature affects conductivity by increasing ionic mobility as well as the solubility of many salts and minerals 30. While freshwater sources have a low conductivity and seawater has a high conductivity, there is no set standard for the conductivity of water. Instead, some organizations and regions have set limits on total dissolved solids for bodies of water 14,37.
The conductivity is one of the properties of materials that varies most widely, from 10 7 (W-m) typical of metals to 10 -20 (W-m) for good electrical insulators. Semiconductors have conductivities in the range 10 -6 to 10 4 (W-m). 
Conductivity of Water Water Type Conductivity (umhos/cm) Distilled water 0.5 - 3.0 Melted snow 2 - 42 Potable water in U.S. 30 - 1500 Freshwater streams 100-2000 The table above shows some ranges of conductivity values you might encounter in the field. The TDS objectives range from 150 to 1400 mg/l depending on the water body. Los Angeles (Region 4): There are no objectives for conductivity. However, there are objectives for total dissolved solids. The TDS objectives range from 225 to 20
Units of Measurement. Electrical Conductivity is the ability of a solution to transfer (conduct) electric current. It is the reciprocal of electrical resistivity (ohms). Therefore conductivity is used to measure the concentration of dissolved solids which have been ionized in a polar solution such as water. 
Hydraulic conductivity, symbolically represented as, is a property of vascular plants, soils and rocks, that describes the ease with which a fluid (usually water) can move through pore spaces or fractures. It depends on the intrinsic permeability of the material, the degree of saturation, and on the density and viscosity of the fluid. Saturated hydraulic conductivity, Ksat, describes water movement through saturated media.