Monument to the dance and music of cumbia in El Banco. Cumbia is a Colombian musical style and folk dance that is considered to be representative of Colombia, along with Vallenato. Cumbia originated from the Caribbean coast of Colombia. Musical instruments Edit. Traditional instruments used in cumbia: 1  Drums: Cumbia drums were of African origin and were brought along with slaves to the Americas by the Spanish conquerors. 2  Africans used wood, ropes made out of Sisal (Agave sisalana), and dried animal skins to make their drums.
Cumbia originated in Colombia's Caribbean coastal region from the musical and cultural fusion of Native Colombians, slaves brought from Africa, and the Spanish during colonial times in the old country of Pocabuy, which is located in Colombia's Momposina Depression and in the ancient palenques of the Congo nation. Cumbia is very popular in the Andean region and the Southern Cone, and is for example more popular than the salsa in many parts of these regions.
These musical instruments are only part of the great variety that one encounters, playing different types of Colombian music. To hear the music or song in which a specific instrument is used, click on the corresponding image. Close all the windows showing instruments and stop the music before clicking on the graphic. Caribbean (Atlantic) music pulsates with vibrant rhythms, such as cumbia, porro and mapale. Mapalé the cumbia is mainly accompanied by an instrument called. Guacharaca the music from The pacific, coast such as the currulao with its strong use of, drums is touched By spanish. influence
Brazilian cumbia is a term loosely used to describe Brazilian music that is influenced by cumbia. In the 21st Century, with the growth of the Internet as well as a Latin American touring circuit, the popularity of cumbia has increased greatly in Brazil leading to many new fusions and variations. Cumbia is very popular in the Andean region and the Southern Cone, and is for example more popular than the salsa in many parts of these regions.
Features. Traditional cumbia music instruments include drums, flutes and other wind instruments, guitars, ouds, and percussion instruments, like the maracas. Cumbia music has continued to develop over time, adding new instruments such as caja drums, trumpets, synthesizers, clarinets, saxophones and trombones. Cumbia music is influenced by African, Spanish and Native American culture and music. Cumbia music gets its name from the cumbe dance it was named after. The cumbe dance is originally from Guinea. In Colombia, the cumbe dance became know as a celebration dance for the marriages between Africans and the native people of Columbia
Read More. The term Cumbia refers to both a style of Colombian folk-dance music, which originated on the country's northern Atlantic coast, and its dominant rhythm, which was assimilated into a great deal of Latin-American music in the Northern Hemisphere. 
Cumbia [ˈkumbja] is a dance-oriented music genre popular throughout Latin America. Cumbia is very popular in the Andean region and the Southern Cone, and is for example more popular than the salsa in many parts of these regions.
Cumbia music has evolved to be a jewel of Colombian culture. Cumbia music is a traditional Colombian dance and folk music that is popular in many Latin and South American countries. Cumbia music is influenced by African, Spanish and Native American culture and music. Cumbia music gets its name from the cumbe dance it was named after. The cumbe dance is originally from Guinea. In Colombia, the cumbe dance became know as a celebration dance for the marriages between Africans and the native people of Columbia