So, they will be less willing to recruit maids. The supply will slow down.. Currently, employers pay agencies as much as $2,000 to hire a Filipino or Indonesian domestic worker. A Filipino maid earns around $500 a month. ameltan@sph.com.sg. Tighter regulations may soon make hiring foreign maids from Indonesia and the Philippines a more costly affair. The Philippine government is looking to introduce a quota on foreign maids in Singapore, which could see the supply of maids here dropping by as much as 20 per cent.
The Cost. Part-time maids are available for between $10 and $20 an hour, and can be hired independently or through a company. Full-time, live-in maids can be hired for as little as $450 per month, although expats often pay them $650 or more, depending on their level of experience. Employers must also pay a monthly levy (currently $265) to the Singaporean government, plus a security bond of $5,000
Employer is responsible for the repatriation of the maid once the usual contract of 2 years expires unless it is renewed. You are required to post a security deposit (bond) of $5,000 for every maid with the Work Permit Department, MOM. If you fail to repatriate the maid after cancellation of her work permit, you risk losing the $5,000 security deposit (bond). You can employ a maid from Ministry of Manpower (MOM) approved source of countries as a Foreign Domestic Worker (FDW). The countries are: Malaysia, Philippines, Indonesia, Thailand, Myanmar, Sri Lanka, India and Bangladesh.
3.Cost of Hiring Maid-Performance Bond. This is only relevant if you are hiring a Filipino maid, you need to furnish a bond of $7000 to the Philippines Embassy in Singapore. You can purchase an insurance plan from insurer. This may cost you about $71.69. Cost of Hiring Maid-Employers'orientation program. If you are hiring maid for the first time, you may need to attend the orientation program unless you have valid reason. This can cost you $20 or $30.
1.Cost of Hiring Maid-Maid Agency Fee or service fee. This can range from $0 to $2000. It is important for you to check with your maid agency or domestic helper agency what the agent fee or service fee covers. Cost of Hiring Maid-Employers'orientation program. If you are hiring maid for the first time, you may need to attend the orientation program unless you have valid reason. This can cost you $20 or $30.
Maid Salary-their monthly salary basically ranges from S$420 to S$500 depending on their working experience and capabilities. Maid Levy-Employers are required to pay a Foreign Domestic Worker (FDW) monthly levy of $265 (normal) or $170 (concessionary). 
It is important to know that foreign maids need to be on a proper work permit, awarded by the Ministry of Manpower. The majority of maids working in Singapore are from the Philippines and Indonesia. You are also only allowed to hire females, between the ages of 23 to 50, as maids in Singapore. The work permit that is usually awarded to a foreign maid is valid for two years. It is important to note that Singapore imposes a monthly levy of $265 on the employer, on top of the monthly salary to the maid.
In Singapore, in order to hire a foreign maid, you will need to be above the age of 21 and not be an undischarged bankrupt. The application process for a foreign maid can take from days to weeks, depending on whether the maid you have selected has the relevant documentations, such as her passport, ready. The work permit that is usually awarded to a foreign maid is valid for two years. It is important to note that Singapore imposes a monthly levy of $265 on the employer, on top of the monthly salary to the maid.
Employers' guidelines can be found in www.mom.gov.sg. The salary ranges from $310-$360 per month for a new FDW with little or no experience. If the FDW has several years of experience in her own country or in other countries, her salary will be $20 to $100 more. Know the Cost in hiring a Maid. Part-Time Maid. In Singapore, you may hire a maid full-time or part-time. A part-time maid usually do not stay in and she usually works once or twice a week for several hours a day. She has to be a citizen or permanent resident. There are a few agencies that provides this service.
In total, each month, to employ a maid, her salary and live-in costs is about S$1500... meaning, a maid's take home pay is much more than Spore low income citizens. No other job, except FDW, employer covers her daily living expenses. 