Origin of the name Angel: Derived from the vocabulary word angel (divine messenger, a messenger of God) which has its root in the Greek angelos (messenger). Var: Angela, Angele, Angella, Anngele. Pet: Angie. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman.
Report Abuse. I like the name Angelica (or other spelling: Angelika), which means 'angel-like'. Some girls' names: * Angelina * Angeline * Evangeline Some boys' names: *Caelum * Vangelis Good site source for additional names is here: http://www.yeahbaby.com/meaning-of-names... Elle · 8 years ago. Thumbs up.
Meaning & History. From the medieval Latin masculine name Angelus which was derived from the name of the heavenly creature (itself derived from the Greek word αγγελος (angelos) meaning messenger). 
Baby Names associated with Angel for Girls. Adoption of these girl names was at its peak in the year 2002 (usage of 0.1447%) and is almost as widespread today (usage 0.1284%, 11.2% less). Angela (#191) and Delaney (#268) are two of the more chic birth names in this compilation. 
Greek Meaning: The name Angel is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Angel is: Messenger or angel. A popular masculine name in Sicily after the 13th-century saint, Angel. Angel Clare is the hero of Thomas Hardy's novel 'Tess of the D'Urbervilles'.
If you are searching for a spiritual or unique baby name, you will love our list of angelic baby names for boys and girls, as well as famous angels in movies, names that mean angel and names of specific angels. The following baby names are not only unique and lovely, but all have angelic meanings. 1  Aingeal: Irish girl name meaning angel. 2  Erela: Hebrew girl name meaning angel. 3  Erelah
The meaning of the name Angel. The name Angel is a Spanish name and is used more often for a boy than a girl. In fact, the name Angel was ranked number 42 on the Social Security Administrations’ list of most popular baby names for boys. You will love our list of heavenly baby names for girls and boys. Not only have we rounded up beautiful names of angels, but also baby names that mean “angel” and some of our favorite angels from movies. You will love these angelic baby names because not only are they unique, but they are meaningful as well.
Angel /an-gel/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name (also used less generally as girls' name Angel) is pronounced AHN-hail, AIN-jel. It is of Greek origin, and the meaning of Angel is  messenger; messenger of God . Derived from the Church Latin name Angelus, from Greek angelos. Biblical: name for the spirit creatures sent by God to men as His messengers. The original Greek form Angelo is more popular now, as Angel is usually a girl's name.
Latin Meaning: The name Angel is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Angel is: Messenger. Biblical name for spirit messengers God sends men. In Greek the meaning of the name Angel is: Messenger or angel. A popular masculine name in Sicily after the 13th-century saint, Angel. Angel Clare is the hero of Thomas Hardy's novel 'Tess of the D'Urbervilles'.
Angel Names, Messenger Names Names that mean angel or messenger. Names of Angels, Archangels, fallen angels, guardian angels, seraphim, cherubim, Thrones, Principalities, Virtues, Powers, Dominions, etc. 