Walmart in Canada often sell many of the same products that one would find in the United States. They do not have many different products as the needs are basically the same. …. Answers Publisher. 
The original big-box Walmart store is now called a Discount Store, and the company has been closing these stores or converting them to Supercenters for at least the last 5 years. In 2010, the company had 810 Discount Store; the number has shrunk to 508 in 2014. The average size is 105,000 square feet. The stores are open for 11 or 12 hours a day with additional hours for business members. The gas station/convenience store is the sixth format, and a company executive has said that Walmart has no plans to roll-out the format further.
Tweet. With the launch last week of a gas station/convenience store, Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (NYSE: WMT) now offers customers six different store formats to choose from, ranging from the Supercenters of up to 260,000 square feet to the 15,000 square-foot Walmart Express stores. The stores are open for 11 or 12 hours a day with additional hours for business members. The gas station/convenience store is the sixth format, and a company executive has said that Walmart has no plans to roll-out the format further.
Walmart has stores in 50 states and Puerto Rico offering low prices on the broadest assortment of products through a variety of formats including the Supercenter, Discount Store and Neighborhood Market. Our distribution operation is one of the largest in the world. Walmart logistics has a fleet of 6,500 tractors, 55,000 trailers and more than 7,000 drivers. 1  A regional distribution center can have up to 12 miles of conveyor belts, which can move hundreds of thousands of cases through the facility each day.
When all 78 ingredients banned by Whole Foods are taken into account, roughly 54 percent of food items sold at a Walmart would be prohibited at Whole Foods. Walmart posts on its website the ingredients of 19,900 food products it carries in its grocery sections. To create my data set, I matched the ingredients of each product against Whole Foods’ “Unacceptable Ingredients for Food” list. Walmart does not ban any of the ingredients on Whole Foods’ restricted list. In fact, approximately 14 percent of food items sold at Walmart could not be stocked on the shelves of Whole Foods simply because they contain high fructose corn syrup.
Walmart opened Supermercado de Walmart locations to appeal to Hispanic communities in the United States. These stores are similar to Walmart Neighborhood Markets. The first one, a 39,000 square feet (3,600 m2) store in the Spring Branch area of Houston, opened on Wednesday April 29, 2009. The store was a conversion of an existing Walmart Market. Walmart Neighborhood Market is a chain of grocery stores launched by Walmart in 1998.
Of the soft drinks sold at Walmart, approximately 97 percent contain ingredients that Whole Foods considers “unacceptable.” High fructose corn syrup and the preservative sodium benzoate, both on Whole Foods’ banned list, are in the majority of Walmart’s soft drinks. Walmart does not ban any of the ingredients on Whole Foods’ restricted list. In fact, approximately 14 percent of food items sold at Walmart could not be stocked on the shelves of Whole Foods simply because they contain high fructose corn syrup.
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. , like many large retail and grocery chains, offers store brands, commonly referred to as house brands or generic brands, which are low-priced alternatives to name brand products. Walmart has several store brands for consumer purchase. Parent's Choice is Walmart's store brand for baby products, including food, diapers, formula, and accessories. Like other Walmart store brands, its design and packaging was relaunched in 2010. Parent's Choice is manufactured by Wyeth (a pharmaceutical company)