Rockhound. Mauna Loa is not located on a plate boundary. Mauna Loa is caused by a stationary hot spot in the Earth's mantle. Mauna Loa, is not on a plate boundary, it is on a hotspot.
Hualalai's last eruption was in 1801. Only two of Hawaii's volcanoes are active today-Mauna Loa and Kiluaea. Mauna Loa erupted in 1984 and Kilauea is considered to be one of the most active volcanoes on Earth today. It has erupted 30 times in the last 40 years. Hawaii is geologically a unique place on Earth because it is caused by a 'hot spot.' Most islands are found at tectonic plate boundaries either from spreading centers (like Iceland) or from subduction zones (like the Aleutian Islands).
Mauna Loa is located on a hot spot in the Pacific Ocean. It is not near a plate boundary, in fact it is 3,200 km from the nearest plate boundary, and is situated in the middle of the Pacific tectonic plate. This is actually a rarity, as 90% of volcanoes are along a tectonic plate boundary. A hot spot occurs where long, stationary vertical pools of magma rise up and towards the plate. Movement of the tectonic plates above the hot spot created Mauna Loa, along with the other Hawaiian volcanoes.
Home Is Mauna Loa at a divergent plate boundary. Mauna Loa Volcano in Hawaii not located at a divergent, or spreading, plate boundary. Mauna Loa is the Earth's largest volcano, and it is an intra-plate volcano situated on the Pacific Plate. As th... Read More ».
The Mauna Loa Volcano is the largest volcano on the planet as it rises over 4 kilometers above the sea level but the 4 kilometers that you see on top is not even half the size of the volcano. 
Source 8. Mauna Loa is a shield volcano located along the Hawaiian Emperor Chain in the Pacific Ocean. It is the largest volcano on planet Earth; about 74,000 cubic kilometers in all. Moku`aweoweo, Mauna Loa's 3x5 kilometer caldera, rises about 3,850 meters above sea level. Sources 5 & 6. It is thought that a hot spot in the mantle has been feeding the chain of islands made as the Pacific plate shifts in a northwest direction. Therefore, Mauna Loa shares the properties of island arc volcanoes, and has mainly effusive eruptions, producing large amounts of basaltic lava in most cases.
In Hawaii, the hot spot is currently under the active volcanoes of Mauna Loa, Kilauea, and Loihi, a submarine volcano southeast of the Big Island. From the geometry of the islands and submarine ridges on the Pacific Plate, we know that the Pacific Plate has been moving west-northwest for the last 43 million years. 
Mauna Loa and the other Hawaiian volcanoes are on a hot spot, not a  plate boundary. Mauna Loa, is not on a plate boundary, it is on a hotspot.
Report Abuse. None. Mauna Loa, the main volcano on the big island of Hawai'i, was formed by something called hot-spot volcanism. This occurs when a plume of magma from the mantle reaches the Earth's crust. There are several instances of hot spots around the globe, but the Hawai'ian islands and the Emperor seamounts are the most famous. 