Serratia Marcescens is a human pathogenic species of Serratia. It is sometimes linked to disease in humans. The disease is commonly known as either Serratia plymuthica, Serratia liquefaciens, Serratia rubidaea, Serratia odorifera, or Serratia fonticola. 
Serratia marcescens is another facultative pathogen of insects, causing septicemia. The non-spore-forming bacterium, Melissococcus pluton, is the causal agent of European foulbrood in honeybees. The bacteria group also includes the Rickettsia, some species of which are pathogenic (particularly the Rickettsiella). Most of the non-spore-forming species of bacteria isolated from insects are in the families Enterobacteriaceae or Pseudomonidaceae. Non-spore-forming bacteria generally have low pathogenicity when they occur in the digestive tract of an insect, but may be very pathogenic if they are able to enter the insect's hemocoel.
Serratia marcescens produces a compound called prodigiosin that binds iron. The production of this pigment is increased at room temperature which gives the bacterial colonies … a red pigment. no. in general, only gram-positive bacteria such as Bacillus and Clostridium produce endospores.
Serratia marcescens Kayla Buchholz Serratia marcescens is a Gram negative, bacillus shaped bacteria that belongs to the family Enterobacteriaceae. In 1819, Bartolomeo Bizio, an Italian pharmacist from Padua, discovered S. marcescens. Bizio identified the bacterium as the cause of the miraculous bloody discoloration of cornmeal mush, or polenta.
Serratia marcescens is a Gram negative, rod shaped bacterium belonging to the family Enterobacteriaceae. It is known to cause several nosocomial infections, especially, catheter-induced bacteremia, UTI, and wound infections. 
UV radiation exposure to S. marcescens colonies results in DNA  mutations. The radiation energy is absorbed by the bacteria and if  exposure is long enough, thymine nitrogen … ous bases adjacent to each  other in DNA strands will form cyclobutane rings called thymine  dimers. no. in general, only gram-positive bacteria such as Bacillus and Clostridium produce endospores.
This red or pink pigmented bacterium known as Serratia marcescens is the most common cause of the pink “stuff.” Serratia bacteria are common inhabitants of the environment and can be found in many places, including human and animal feces, dust, soil, and in surface waters. 
Some non-spore-forming bacteria are pathogenic and can cause disease via ingestion of spores. One such bacterium is the Gram negative Serratia entomophila, a naturally occurring pathogen of grass grubs in New Zealand. Most of the non-spore-forming species of bacteria isolated from insects are in the families Enterobacteriaceae or Pseudomonidaceae. Non-spore-forming bacteria generally have low pathogenicity when they occur in the digestive tract of an insect, but may be very pathogenic if they are able to enter the insect's hemocoel.
Spore-forming Serratia marcescens subsp. sakuensis subsp. nov., isolated from a domestic wastewater treatment tank. Ajithkumar B, Ajithkumar VP, Iriye R, Doi Y, Sakai T. A strain (KREDT) that formed endospores and produced the pigment prodigiosin was isolated from activated sludge. The presence of spores in cells of strain KREDT was evident upon electron microscopy examination, heat treatment and the detection of dipicolinic acid in the cells. Biochemical characteristics, and 16S rDNA sequence and DNA-DNA homology data identified strain KREDT as Serratia marcescens. Here, it is shown that strain KREDT (JCM 11315T = CIP 107489T) represents a novel subspecies of S. marcescens, for which the name Serratia marcescens subsp. sakuensis is proposed.
S. marcescens may also be found in environments such as dirt, supposedly sterile places, and the subgingival biofilm of teeth. Due to this, and because S. marcescens produces a reddish-orange tripyrrole pigment called prodigiosin, it may cause staining of the teeth. The biochemical pathway for the production of prodigiosin by S. marcescens is unknown except for the final two steps. In these steps, a monopyrrole and a bipyrrole undergo a condensation reaction by way of an enzyme to form prodigiosin. 