In the Muscadet region, wine makers use to leave the grape juice to rest during winter before putting the wine in bottle. Muscadet is a dry white wine that is a fine companion to shellfish. The quality of Muscadet varies very much from one winery to another. Muscadet is produced in 4 wine terroirs around the city of Nantes, in the West of the Loire Valley.
The Muscadet Sevre sèvre Et maine is the most important and the best of. Them in The muscadet, region wine makers use to leave the grape juice to rest during winter before putting the wine in. Bottle muscadet is a dry white wine that is a fine companion to. shellfish Muscadet is produced in 4 wine terroirs around the city of Nantes, in the West of the Loire Valley.
Muscadet Sevre-et-Maine Wine. Muscadet Sevre-et-Maine is the best known of the Muscadet appellations of the Loire Valley's Pays Nantais district, on the central western coast of France. The title covers exclusively white wines from vineyards around the Sevre and Maine rivers – minor tributaries of the Loire which converge just outside Nantes. About 80% of all Muscadet wine is made here, as the terroir is ideally suited to its production. A combination of volcanic, metamorphic and alluvial soils has led to an abundance of potassium, magnesium and calcium, providing the vines with the minerals they require for optimal growth.
Muscadet Wine. Muscadet wine got a bad rep for a long time. The problem is that the melon de Bourgogne grape, which accounts exclusively for the wine made in the Muscadet wine region of the western Loire Valley of France, can produce insipid, bland, uninspiring wines if not treated properly and over produced. So many wine drinkers even today think of Muscadet as just that, a simple, uninteresting thirst quencher. But to ignore Muscadet beyond that is simply a crime these days. There are a growing number of conscientious growers who are doing all the right things in the region and making wine that is simply outstanding.
Muscadet Wine. Muscadet is the key appellation of the Pays Nantais, the district of the western Loire Valley around Nantes, on the central western coast of France. The name covers exclusively white wines made from Melon de Bourgogne (or simply Melon) – the variety that was traditionally called Muscadet. The similarity between the name Muscadet and that of the Muscat grape family is sometimes the cause of confusion, but a single taste of a crisp, dry Muscadet wine will confirm that it is definitely not made from Muscat grapes.
Muscadet is the name of the place, the wine and the grape, originally called melon de Bourgogne or gamay blanc. The best wines hail from Muscadet Sevre-sèvre-Et, maine named after two small rivers that flow through The Pays. nantais 
Muscadet is a white French wine. It is made at the western end of the Loire Valley, near the city of Nantes in the Pays de la Loire region neighboring the Brittany Region. More Muscadet is produced than any other Loire wine. It is made from the Melon de Bourgogne grape, often referred to simply as melon. As a rule in France, Appellation d'origine controlee contrôlée wines are named either after their growing region or after their (variety the latter In alsace). only (In contrast, the Muscadet-Coteaux de la Loire AOC only produces around 20% of the amount of wine of Muscadet-Sevre sèvre Et) Maine in, fact MORE Aoc-Muscadet sevre Sèvre et maine is produced on a yearly basis than in any OTHER single aoc in The Entire. loire valley
First of all, Muscadet is a relatively large wine producing region in the far west of the Loire Valley in France. So many wine drinkers even today think of Muscadet as just that, a simple, uninteresting thirst quencher. But to ignore Muscadet beyond that is simply a crime these days. There are a growing number of conscientious growers who are doing all the right things in the region and making wine that is simply outstanding.
Muscadet. Muscadet is produced in 4 wine terroirs around the city of Nantes, in the West of the Loire Valley. The Muscadet Sevre sèvre Et maine is the most important and the best of. them