Meckel's diverticulectomy is a surgical procedure that isolates and removes an abnormal diverticulum (Meckel's diverticulum) or pouch, as well as surrounding tissue, in the lining of the small intestine. During Meckel's diverticulectomy, the abdomen is opened above the area of the diverticulum, which is exposed along with the bowel (A). The diverticulum is clamped off at the base, and then cut off (B). Two layers of stitches are used to repair the bowel (C and D)
A Meckel’s diverticulectomy is a surgical procedure used to remove a small pouch—a birth defect called Meckel’s diverticulum —from the lining of the small intestine. This may require a Meckel’s diverticulectomy to be performed. Other symptoms that may require this procedure include bowel obstruction and inflammation or infection of the pouch. A surgeon will perform the procedure while you are under a general anesthetic.
Medical Therapy. Urethral diverticulum is, for all intents and purposes, a surgical disorder. Treatment of recurrent UTIs with appropriate antibiotic therapy can be utilized preoperatively as a temporizing measure or in patients who are unable or unwilling to undergo surgery. Urethral diverticulectomy is a more extensive procedure in terms of the dissection of the diverticular sac. Some surgeons inflate the diverticulum using a double balloon catheter in order to facilitate identification and dissection and to avoid entry in the sac.
A diverticulum (plural: diverticula) is the medical or biological term for an outpouching of a hollow (or a fluid-filled) structure in the body. Depending upon which layers of the structure are involved, they are described as being either true or false. 
Meckel's diverticulum is an intestinal diverticulum (pouch) that results from the inability of the vitteline (umbilical) duct to close at five weeks of embryonic development. During Meckel's diverticulectomy, the abdomen is opened above the area of the diverticulum, which is exposed along with the bowel (A). The diverticulum is clamped off at the base, and then cut off (B). Two layers of stitches are used to repair the bowel (C and D)
A bladder diverticulum is the protrusion of mucosa through the detrusor muscle fibers as a result of a structural defect (congenital or primary diverticulum) or of chronic dysfunction of bladder voiding (diverticulum secondary to obstructive pathology of the lower urinary tract). Combined Intravesical and Extravesical Diverticulectomy. In a large diverticulum complicated with peridiverticulitis or in a paraureteral location, it is obligatory to place a 7- or 8-Ch ureteral catheter in the corresponding side before dissection.
A Zenker's diverticulum, also pharyngoesophageal diverticulum, also pharyngeal pouch, also hypopharyngeal diverticulum, is a diverticulum of the mucosa of the pharynx, just above the cricopharyngeal muscle (i.e. above the upper sphincter of the esophagus). 
Doctors prefer to use laparoscopic surgery to perform the Meckel’s diverticulectomy. Laparoscopic surgery is considered a minimally invasive procedure. It is performed with the use of a laparoscope, a thin, flexible tube with a camera. the laparoscope is inserted into small incisions, or cuts, in your abdomen. This may require a Meckel’s diverticulectomy to be performed. Other symptoms that may require this procedure include bowel obstruction and inflammation or infection of the pouch. A surgeon will perform the procedure while you are under a general anesthetic.
It is a small pouch found in the lining of the small intestine. This pouch measures 1 to 12 centimeters in length. Most cases of Meckel’s diverticulum never cause symptoms and don’t require repair. The most common symptom is painless bleeding or hemorrhage from the rectum. This may require a Meckel’s diverticulectomy to be performed. Other symptoms that may require this procedure include bowel obstruction and inflammation or infection of the pouch. A surgeon will perform the procedure while you are under a general anesthetic.