Physical therapist assistants (PTAs) provide physical therapy services under the direction and supervision of a licensed physical therapist. PTAs help people of all ages who have medical problems, or other health-related conditions that limit their ability to move and perform functional activities in their daily lives. 
Occupational therapy assistants work side-by-side with occupational therapists to supply rehabilitative services to individuals suffering from physical or mental impairments. Through their assistance, clients enjoy an improved quality of life and strive to function normally in day-to-day activities. Working in collaboration with and under supervision of occupational therapists, occupational therapy assistants help patients complete prescribed activities and exercises designed for rehabilitative purposes.
Occupational therapy assistants and aides work primarily in occupational therapists’ offices, hospitals, and nursing care facilities. Occupational therapy assistants and aides spend much of their time on their feet setting up equipment and, in the case of assistants, working with patients. Occupational therapy assistants and aides will be needed to help occupational therapists in caring for these people. Occupational therapy will also continue to be used for treating children and young adults with developmental disabilities like autism.
What Occupational Therapy Assistants and Aides Do. Occupational therapy assistants and aides help patients develop, recover, and improve the skills needed for daily living and working. Occupational therapy assistants are directly involved in providing therapy to patients, while occupational therapy aides typically perform support activities. Occupational therapy assistants and aides will be needed to help occupational therapists in caring for these people. Occupational therapy will also continue to be used for treating children and young adults with developmental disabilities like autism.
In its simplest terms, occupational therapists and occupational therapy assistants help people across the lifespan participate in the things they want and need to do through the therapeutic use of everyday activities (occupations). 
What Physical Therapist Assistants and Aides Do. Physical therapist assistants (sometimes called PTAs) and physical therapist aides work under the direction and supervision of physical therapists. They help patients who are recovering from injuries and illnesses regain movement and manage pain. Physical therapist assistants are involved in the direct care of patients. Physical therapist aides often do tasks that are indirectly related to patient care, such as cleaning and setting up the treatment area, moving patients, and performing clerical duties.
Physical Therapist Assistant (PTA) Careers Overview. Physical therapists and physical therapist assistants (PTAs) under the direction and supervision of a physical therapist are the only providers of physical therapy services. In many practice settings, physical therapists rely on the PTA to assure that all patients/clients have access to physical therapy services. 
An occupational therapy (OT) assistant works under the direction of an occupational therapist to guide patients in prescribed therapeutic activities and exercises, often using specialized equipment, in order to help them achieve or recover their full, independent and healthy lifestyles in spite of injury or disability. While an occupational therapist may diagnose and prescribe certain treatments, occupational therapy assistants are mostly responsible for directly working with the patient to achieve the treatment goals.
Occupational therapy assistants may handle some of the routine work of running an occupational therapy practice, like answering calls from patients. Occupational therapy assistants and aides help patients develop, recover, and improve the skills needed for daily living and working. Occupational therapy assistants are directly involved in providing therapy to patients, while occupational therapy aides typically perform support activities. Occupational therapy assistants and aides will be needed to help occupational therapists in caring for these people. Occupational therapy will also continue to be used for treating children and young adults with developmental disabilities like autism.