Shae in Englewood, Colorado said: Leasing Consultants make beween $11-$13 per hour plus commission. Commission is usually a percentage of the lease amount or it is a flat fee, usually between $50 & $70 per lease. Hope this helps. YOU CAN MAKE A LOT OF $$$$. You get a base salary-anywhere between $9.00 - $17.00 plus every time you lease an apartment and the person moves in you get $25.00 to $100 as a bonus (commission). It all depends on how good you are.
State or District Salaries. Average salaries for leasing agents vary somewhat by state or district. They earned the highest salaries of $21,000 per year in New York – among those listed – according to Indeed.com, while those in the District of Columbia made $20,000 annually. But they can earn thousands of dollars more per year through commissions and/or bonuses, depending on the number of leases they process. Most employers require their leasing agents to have at least an associate's degree and a couple years of leasing experience; some require bachelor's degrees.
Real estate agents can make a lot of money, but th … e  average income for a real estate agent is only $39,000 a year.  There are many reasons the average income of real estate agents is  low, one of the biggest reasons actuality many agents only work  part-time. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Well, I've worked at an apartment community as a leasing agent for 1 1/2 years. I started in December of 2007 until currently (April 2009), and in my first full year from January 1, 2008 - December 31, 2008 I made about $35,000.
To make roughly that same amount on the rental side, based on a 15 percent commission on the first year’s rent, a rental agent would need to lease six exclusive $3,000-a-month apartments. That would generate $32,400 in gross commissions, with $16,200 going to the agent. 
Salary and Qualifications. Leasing agents earned average annual salaries of $17,000 as of 2013, according to the job website Indeed.com. But they can earn thousands of dollars more per year through commissions and/or bonuses, depending on the number of leases they process. Most employers require their leasing agents to have at least an associate's degree and a couple years of leasing experience; some require bachelor's degrees.
(United States). For Leasing Consultants, hourly average wages total $12.80 per hour. Earnings for this group are mostly affected by location, followed by the specific employer and years of experience. Unfortunately, some people in this line of work are without benefits — just under one in three lack coverage. Relatively untried employees who have less than five years' experience make $29K, but folks with five to 10 years under their belts enjoy an appreciably larger median of $31K. Leasing Consultants see a median salary of $33K after reaching one to two decades on the job.
In my area, on an office lease, the leasing agent might get 4.5% of the total rent volume on a direct lease or 2 to 2.5% if it is co-brokered (outside agent getting 4.5%). So a co-brokered deal would be 6.5% total (4.5% to the tenant's broker and 2 or 2.5% to the landlord's broker). 
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Leasing Consultant in the United States is $28,224 so 50% of the people who perform the job of Leasing Consultant in the United States are expected to make less than $28,224. Source: HR Reported data as of September 2015. Median $28,224. Job Description for Leasing Consultant. Responsible for the rental of apartment units to ensure maximum occupancy at all times and high renewal rates. Coordinates move-ins and move-outs, lease negotiations and renewals, and apartment showings.
The annual salary for someone with the job title Leasing Consultant may vary depending on a number of factors including industry, company size, location, years of experience and level of education. Job Description for Leasing Consultant. Responsible for the rental of apartment units to ensure maximum occupancy at all times and high renewal rates. Coordinates move-ins and move-outs, lease negotiations and renewals, and apartment showings.