The serpent, or snake, is one of the oldest and most widespread mythological symbols. The word is derived from Latin serpens, a crawling animal or snake. Snakes have been associated with some of the oldest rituals known to humankind and represent dual expression of good and evil. The serpent Hydra is a star constellation representing either the serpent thrown angrily into the sky by Apollo or the Lernaean Hydra as defeated by Heracles for one of his Twelve Labors. The constellation Serpens represents a snake being tamed by Ophiuchus the snake-handler, another constellation.
The Hebrew word nahash is used to identify the serpent that appears in Genesis 3:1, in the Garden of Eden. In Genesis, the serpent is portrayed as a deceptive creature or trickster, who promotes as good what God had forbidden, and shows particular cunning in its deception. No serpent, no animal of any kind, is called Satan, or Belzebub, or Devil, in the Pentateuch .. 20th century scholars such as W. O. E. Oesterley (1921) were cognisant of the differences between the role of the Edenic serpent in the Hebrew Bible and any connection with ancient serpent in the New Testament.
1 Zoology A snake. 2  often Serpent In the Bible, the creature that tempted Eve, identified in Christian tradition with Satan. 3  A subtle, sly, or treacherous person. 1 often Serpent In the Bible, the creature that tempted Eve, identified in Christian tradition with Satan. 2  A subtle, sly, or treacherous person. 3  A firework that writhes while burning.
Mersenne, 1636 On hearing the Serpent for the first time, Aye, but not the Serpent that seduced Eve. Handel (1685-1759) Suitably about the serpent and its players, The urge to perform is not a sign of talent. Garrison Keillor This composer stated that the serpent sounds like a donkey with emotional problems.. (bass cornett). But the true bass of the cornett is performed with the serpent, so that one can say that one without the other is a body without a soul. and It seems that the irregular distance of the holes of the Serpent makes its diapason more difficult than that of the other instruments.
Serpents (Hebrew: נחש ‎ nāḥāš) are referred to in both the Hebrew Bible and the New Testament. The symbol of a serpent or snake played important roles in religious and cultural life of ancient Egypt, Canaan, Mesopotamia and Greece. No serpent, no animal of any kind, is called Satan, or Belzebub, or Devil, in the Pentateuch .. 20th century scholars such as W. O. E. Oesterley (1921) were cognisant of the differences between the role of the Edenic serpent in the Hebrew Bible and any connection with ancient serpent in
Serpents are connected with poison and medicine. The snake's venom is associated with the chemicals of plants and fungi that have the power to either heal, poison or provide expanded consciousness (and even the elixir of life and immortality) through divine intoxication. The serpent Hydra is a star constellation representing either the serpent thrown angrily into the sky by Apollo or the Lernaean Hydra as defeated by Heracles for one of his Twelve Labors. The constellation Serpens represents a snake being tamed by Ophiuchus the snake-handler, another constellation.
And the great dragon was cast out, that old serpent, called the Devil, and Satan… –Revelation 12:9 And he laid hold on the dragon, that old serpent, which is the Devil, and Satan, and bound him a thousand years, -Revelation 20:2. “I fear, lest by any means, as the serpent beguiled (sexually seduced) Eve through his subtilty, so your minds should be corrupted from the simplicity that is in Christ.” –II Corinthians 11:3. “Not as Cain, who was of that wicked one, and slew his brother.
‘And the great dragon was thrown down, that ancient serpent, who is called the devil and Satan, the deceiver of the whole world’. ‘… the serpent is neither a figurative description of Satan, nor is it Satan in the form of a serpent. The real serpent was the agent in Satan’s hand. The serpent lied to Eve when he said, ‘ You shall not surely die, ’ and as this is the first lie recorded in Scripture, the title ‘ father of it ’ [‘it’ = lies or lying] would seem to be a very apt description of the person doing the lying on this occasion.