Quantitative genetics is the study of continuous traits (such as height or weight) and their underlying mechanisms. It is effectively an extension of simple Mendelian inheritance in that the combined effect of the many underlying genes results in a continuous distribution of phenotypic values. Examples of quantitative traits include height, weight, and blood pressure. There is no single gene for any of these traits, instead it is generally believed that continuous variation in a trait such as blood pressure is partly due to DNA sequence variations at multiple genes. Source(s): redice · 4 years ago.
Medical researchers study qualitative traits by studying the frequency of the related conditions. If you're researching a gene's effect on a qualitative trait -- a type of brain disorder, say -- you can compare the presence of the disorder in families with the gene to similar families that don't carry it. This gets complicated as most health problems are influenced by the environment too.
Sections. Definition. A quantitative trait is a measurable phenotype that depends on the cumulative actions of many genes and the environment. These traits can vary among individuals, over a range, to produce a continuous distribution of phenotypes. Examples include height, weight and blood pressure. News and Comment.
A quantitative trait locus (QTL) is a section of DNA (the locus) that correlates with variation in a phenotype (the quantitative trait). The QTL typically is linked to, or contains, the genes that control that phenotype. An example of a polygenic trait is human skin color variation. Several genes factor into determining a person's natural skin color, so modifying only one of those genes can change skin color slightly or in some cases, such as for SLC24A5, moderately.
Quantitative trait. Definition. noun. A trait produced by the interaction and additive effects of quantitative genes. Supplement. Examples of quantitative traits are height, weight, skin color, and predisposition to heart diseases. 
Quantitative Traits. A quantitative trait is a trait that fits into discrete categories. This means that you can neatly categorize a trait. For example, if a species of plant had either red leaves or yellow leaves, and nothing in between, this would be a discrete trait. Except for some rare special cases, the humans can only fit into one of four categories for the ABO part of their blood type: A, B, AB, or O. Since the ABO part of your bloodtype fits neatly into four categories, it is a qualitative trait. You can often represent qualitative traits with a number.
In genetics, a qualitative trait is one that's either/or: if you don't have the right gene, you don't have the trait. Quantitative genes are all about how much of the trait you have. Genes' effect on human height is quantitative, for instance. We all have height, but genes influence how much of it we have. If you're researching a gene's effect on a qualitative trait -- a type of brain disorder, say -- you can compare the presence of the disorder in families with the gene to similar families that don't carry it. This gets complicated as most health problems are influenced by the environment too.
Examples of Qualitative Traits. This concept may make more sense with examples. Some examples of qualitative traits include round/wrinkled skin in pea pods, albinism and humans' ABO blood groups. The ABO human blood groups illustrate this concept well. Except for some rare special cases, the humans can only fit into one of four categories for the ABO part of their blood type: A, B, AB, or O. Since the ABO part of your bloodtype fits neatly into four categories, it is a qualitative trait. You can often represent qualitative traits with a number.
Qualitative genes produce what are called discontinuous traits. For example, you only have Rh-positive blood -- A positive, B positive and so on -- if you have the genotype for Rh-positive blood. There's no in-between zone where your blood can be half-positive, half-negative. If you're researching a gene's effect on a qualitative trait -- a type of brain disorder, say -- you can compare the presence of the disorder in families with the gene to similar families that don't carry it. This gets complicated as most health problems are influenced by the environment too.
Quantitative genetics is a branch of population genetics that deals with phenotypes that vary continuously (in characters such as height or mass)—as opposed to discretely identifiable phenotypes and gene-products (such as eye-colour, or the presence of a particular biochemical). Analysis of quantitative trait loci, or QTL, is a more recent addition to quantitative genetics, linking it more directly to molecular genetics.