Thus, all cannabinoids are terpenoids, but not all terpenoids are cannabinoids. Cannabis does produce many terpenoids that are not cannabinoids, as well, but the cannabinoids are currently the compounds in which most people are interested. Cannabinoids are a set of about 80-100 compounds found only in cannabis plants. Cannabinoids are a subset of terpenoids.
THC, CBN, CBDL and some other cannabinoids on the other hand are known to be psychologically active to varying degrees. CBD is probably the most abundant cannabinoid, contributing up to 40% of cannabis resin. Interestingly, CBD may actually have anti-anxiety effects and lessen the psychoactive effects of THC. The most well known and researched of these, delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (δ9-THC), is the substance primarily responsible for the psychoactive effects of cannabis. The effects of THC are believed to be moderated by the influence of the other components of the plant, most particularly the cannabinoids.
Cannabis plants can exhibit wide variation in the quantity and type of cannabinoids they produce. The mixture of cannabinoids produced by a plant is known as the plant's cannabinoid profile. Selective breeding has been used to control the genetics of plants and modify the cannabinoid profile. The most notable cannabinoid is the phytocannabinoid tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), the primary psychoactive compound of cannabis. Cannabidiol (CBD) is another major constituent of the plant. There are at least 85 different cannabinoids isolated from cannabis, exhibiting varied effects.
CB receptors and endocannabinoids together con-stitute the endocannabinoid system. Some phytocannabinoids, cannabinoids of the cannabis plant, and a multitude of synthetic cannabinoids produced in the laboratory mimic the effects of endo-cannabinoids. Cannabinoid receptors and endocannabinoids, com-pounds produced by the body that bind to these recep-tors, together constitute the endocannabinoid system. This system is of great importance for the normal func-tion of the body and is millions of years old.
Overview. 1  Cannabis, also known as marijuana, is a plant grown in many parts of the world which produces a resin containing compounds called cannabinoids. 2  Some cannabinoids are psychoactive (acting on the brain and changing mood or consciousness) (see Question 1). Cannabinoids are active chemicals in Cannabis that cause drug-like effects throughout the body, including the central nervous system and the immune system. They are also known as phytocannabinoids. The main active cannabinoid in Cannabis is delta-9-THC.
The effects of cannabis are bought on by naturally occuring chemicals, known as a [phyto-]cannabinoids. [Endo-]cannabinoids are produced naturally in the bodies of humans and most animals, and so far scientists have identified four cannabinoid receptors in the human body. Cannabis contains over 60 different [phyto-]cannabinoids and is the only plant found so far to produce these chemicals. Cannabis is the scientific name for a herb that produces a physcotropic cannabinoid called THC along with an array of cannabinoids. It is unique in that is in the only plant in the world to produce these chemicals, usually produced in humans and animals. There are three different sub-species of Cannabis:
Ligands for these receptor proteins include the endocannabinoids (produced naturally in the body by humans and animals), the phytocannabinoids (found in cannabis and some other plants), and synthetic cannabinoids (manufactured artificially). The most notable cannabinoid is the phytocannabinoid tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), the primary psychoactive compound of cannabis. Cannabidiol (CBD) is another major constituent of the plant. There are at least 85 different cannabinoids isolated from cannabis, exhibiting varied effects.
The endocannabinoid system (ECS) is a group of endogenous cannabinoid receptors located in the mammalian brain and throughout the central and peripheral nervous systems, consisting of neuromodulatory lipids and their receptors. 
1 Cannabis, also known as marijuana, is a plant grown in many parts of the world which produces a resin containing compounds called cannabinoids. 2  Some cannabinoids are psychoactive (acting on the brain and changing mood or consciousness) (see Question 1). Cannabinoids are active chemicals in Cannabis that cause drug-like effects throughout the body, including the central nervous system and the immune system. They are also known as phytocannabinoids. The main active cannabinoid in Cannabis is delta-9-THC.