Although you can't tell the age of an adult chameleon, there are ways to estimate the ages of babies and juveniles. Different species vary in color and size. The ages of babies and juveniles are estimated by observing their sizes and colorations. Estimate His Age by His Size. Estimate a juvenile chameleon's age using his size as a gauge. Veiled chameleon hatchlings are 2 to 3 inches long, from nose to tail tip. By 8 months old, they've reach adult length. Females measure 8 to 12 inches long, including their tails, and males are 12 to 19 inches long
A pet chameleon can provide hours of enjoyment. You may wonder about your new pet, including such things as how long you think this chameleon will be a part of your life. Chameleons generally live for three to eight years, depending on their gender and species. Ask a reputable breeder. This is particularly useful if you bought the chameleon at a pet store and the salesperson is uncertain of the age. If you don't know of any breeders in your area, you can locate one using the search function on the Chameleons Online website.
Their lifespan is about five years. The veiled chameleon is usually around 3 to 4 inches at birth and marked by a light green color, eventually growing to between 8 inches and a foot after a year with much brighter and more varied color patterns. Veiled chameleons live between five and eight years. Ask a reputable breeder. This is particularly useful if you bought the chameleon at a pet store and the salesperson is uncertain of the age. If you don't know of any breeders in your area, you can locate one using the search function on the Chameleons Online website.
A reputable chameleon breeder who's familiar with your chameleon species may be able to estimate your juvenile pet's age. Most reputable breeders will not sell juvenile chameleons less than 6 weeks old. Estimate His Age by His Size. Estimate a juvenile chameleon's age using his size as a gauge. Veiled chameleon hatchlings are 2 to 3 inches long, from nose to tail tip. By 8 months old, they've reach adult length. Females measure 8 to 12 inches long, including their tails, and males are 12 to 19 inches long
Do you have the space that is required to house an adult chameleon? The size of the enclosure that you have for your 6-8 week old chameleon, and the size of the enclosure that you will have for your adult chameleon will be significantly different (enclosure sizes vary between species). Typically, a 6-8 week old chameleon can be housed in a 25-35 gallon reptarium (see housing). Not all species of chameleons require the same amount, or type of care. Some require much more time and effort, while others will do just fine with the basic requirements of most reptiles. Some of the easier species to care for are the Veiled Chameleon, Jackson's Chameleon, and Panther Chameleon.
The Appearance of the Veiled Chameleon. The veiled chameleon is a rather large species of chameleon and can grow as long as 24 inches long! While some veiled chameleons do grow to this length the average size for this species is between 14 and 18 inches long. Due to its prevalence in Yemen, many people often refer to this chameleon as the Yemen
Veiled Chameleon Size. Adult male veiled chameleons may reach a total length of 2 feet, and females can attain approximately 18 inches, making the veiled chameleon one of the larger chameleon species seen in captivity. Hatchling veiled chameleons are approximately 3 to 4 inches in total length. For adult veiled chameleons, bigger is better as far as their enclosures are concerned. The ideal cage for an adult male veiled chameleon would be a screened enclosure measuring about 2 feet wide by 2 feet long by 4 feet tall. Females can be kept in screened enclosures measuring about 18 inches long by 18 inches deep and 3 feet tall
The veiled chameleon (Chamaeleo calyptratus) is a species of chameleon native to the Arabian Peninsula in Yemen and Saudi Arabia. Other common names include cone-head chameleon and Yemen chameleon. The veiled chameleon is an omnivore. It favors insects, and it also eats plant matter, especially as a source of water. The life span is about 5 years for females, and up to 8 years for males. They reach sexual maturity at four to five months.