Now on to the radon test…. Typically, the radon test is a two-day process in which canisters or a machine are placed in the lowest-level of a home that is habitable. And so, for a home with finished space in the basement, the test would be placed in the basement.
If there is no stock on the shelf, ask the store to order one from their warehouse for you. How to Test. We recommend that you place the radon test kit in the lowest level of a home (such as a basement or main floor) for a period of three months where it will not be disturbed. After three months, collect the detector and mail it to a laboratory for analysis and results. For complete testing instructions, click here.
Radon is an invisible, odourless, and tasteless radioactive gas that is found naturally in soil and rock from the breakdown of uranium. High levels of radon found indoors can be a health risk to you and your family.
Radon is a tasteless, odorless, invisible gas that occurs naturally throughout the earth's crust. It is a by-product of the breakdown of uranium in the soil, rock, and water. Over time, uranium will decay into lead. This process has fourteen steps, and radon is formed at the sixth step.
Radon is a radioactive gas that is odorless, colorless, and tasteless. Radon is also highly soluble in water. It occurs in nature and is not a man-made hazard, but one of the natural environment. Radon is not common, but occurs in trace amounts in most rocks, soils, and groundwaters.
While radon is present everywhere, and there is no known, safe level, your greatest exposure is where it can concentrate-indoors. And where you spend most time-at home. Your home can have radon whether it be old or new, well-sealed or drafty, and with or without a basement.
As radon gas moves up through the soil, it can be drawn into your home through air pressure differences. The air pressure inside your home is usually lower than the pressure in the soil around the foundations and basement floor slab.
Radon is an invisible and odorless radioactive gas. Elevated levels of radon have been found in homes all across the country. Any home in any state may have a radon problem: new and old homes, well-sealed and drafty homes, and homes with or without basements.