Rose Geranium. There are over 700 varieties of cultivated geranium; however, most are grown for ornamental purposes only. The oil producing species are P. graveolens, P. radens and P. capitatum. Pelargoniums are native to South Africa, and the Sotho used a paste made from the leaves to treat wounds and abscesses.
There are four basic types of geraniums. This includes ivy-leafed, zonal, regal, and scented. Each one of these types has their own purpose in any horticulture plan. The ivy-leafed geranium (Pelargonium peltalum) or vining geranium is a plant whose trailing natures make it perfect for hanging baskets and window boxes.
Also known as garden geraniums or common geraniums, zonal geraniums often have variegated leaves with patterns or dark and light green, white or silver. These are the geraniums most often cultivated in home gardens, with large, showy blossoms of white, pink, red or salmon. They may be single or double blossomed.
Out of the many varieties of the plant, Pelargonium graveolens is the source of the essential oil. The oil is widely used in aromatherapy and contains a number of beneficial compounds. Geranium oil is often compared to the rose essential oil because they share almost the same therapeutic traits.
Our rose geranium essential oil is extracted from the plant Pelargonium graveolens of the Geraniaceae family and has a rosier smell than that of its cousin-Pelargonium odorantissimum, which is more the commonly known geranium essential oil and has a more wild lemon-apple smell.
Citrus types of scented geraniums have the reputation of repelling mosquitoes and other garden pests. “Citronella” geraniums (Pelargonium “Citronella”) emit a strong smell of citronella grass. Lemon geraniums (Pelargonium crispum) produce small, ruffled leaves with pale pink flowers on an upright bush.
* Widely-grown and commonly misnamed geraniums should be called Pelargoniums.. More on The Geranium Family (Geraniaceae) & the Genus Pelargonium By Wayne Handlos, Ph.D. The geranium family consists of several genera of plants commonly referred to as geraniums or cranesbills.
Nut-or spice-scented geraniums remind someone of more exotic aromas. Coconut geraniums (Pelargonium grossularioides) produce sweet-scented, dark green leaves and tiny red flowers. “Nutmeg” geraniums (Pelargonium “Nutmeg”) grow a mound of small gray-green leaves and white flowers.
Geranium Types. There are four common categories of annual geraniums: zonal, ivy-leaf, regal and scented-leaved. Technically, the annuals referred to as geraniums belong to the genus Pelargonium.