• Deltek Costpoint-enterprise management software solution that tracks, manages and reports on every aspect of a project business. • Deltek First GovCon Essentials-accounting and project accounting solution in Cloud for small and medium-sized businesses who sell services to the U.S. government. In 1993, Deltek began developing its next generation of project accounting solutions, which eventually led to the development of Costpoint in 1994, which at the time was a contemporary 4GL client/server project focused ERP.
No matter what your project-driven business, Deltek Costpoint empowers you with the information you need to run your entire business more efficiently and profitably. In fact, Deltek’s portfolio of Costpoint-compatible applications allows you to extend Costpoint to create a completely integrated, end-to-end solution that works right out-of-the-box.
Deltek Costpoint is a project accounting software package sold by Deltek. Costpoint is the high-end of the three main project accounting software packages sold by the company. Among Costpoint users are L-3 Communications, CACI, Northrop Grumman, CSC, Serco Inc. , SAIC, Lockheed Martin, DRS Technologies, Orbital Science Corporation, Triple Canopy Inc and SGIS. Deltek Costpoint has a number of different modules and functions arranged in a tree structure. The software has a breakdown of folders into Accounting, Projects, People, Materials, and Others
From the beginning, Deltek's niche in the software industry is its focus on developing software for use by companies that are project focused, such as government contractors (who must, under U.S. government procurement law, track costs by individual contract, and in some cases by task order or line item). In 1993, Deltek began developing its next generation of project accounting solutions, which eventually led to the development of Costpoint in 1994, which at the time was a contemporary 4GL client/server project focused ERP.
Deltek Costpoint 7. NeoSystems, a Deltek Premier Partner, offers Costpoint consulting services to create system efficiencies for government contractors and commercial businesses. Our goal is to provide your key resources with more accurate, real-time information that leads to smarter decisions. Our services include:
Deltek Costpoint Overview. Deltek Costpoint is an enterprise resource planning solution for businesses of all sizes. It offers such capabilities as business intelligence, HR management, inventory management, and others. The software was designed and launched by Deltek Inc headquartered in Virginia, United States. Deltek Costpoint Features. The software offers a variety of HR management capabilities such as benefits management, employee self-service, payroll management, performance review, recruitment management, time and attendance tracking, and employee training.
With company's latest product release, Deltek Performance Management, Costpoint customers also have access to a GovCon library of reports (including Incurred Cost Submission) to ease the complexity and time involved being compliant with government regulations. Among Costpoint users are L-3 Communications, CACI, Northrop Grumman, CSC, Serco Inc. , SAIC, Lockheed Martin, DRS Technologies, Orbital Science Corporation, Triple Canopy Inc and SGIS. Deltek Costpoint has a number of different modules and functions arranged in a tree structure. The software has a breakdown of folders into Accounting, Projects, People, Materials, and Other