You can use marjoram fresh or dried (dried is stronger) in a variety of recipes…from salads, soups and stews to marinades, cheese spreads and herb butters. It can also be substituted for oregano when preparing dishes like pizza, lasagna and eggplant Parmesan.
Marjoram is typically used in European cooking and is added to fish sauces, clam chowder, butter-based sauces, salads, tomato-based sauces, vinegar, mushroom sauces, and eggplant. In Germany, marjoram is called the “sausage herb” and is used with thyme and other spices in different types of sausages.
Fresh marjoram can be used as a flavoring in the preparation of salad dressings, soups, stews, marinades as well as in egg and vegetable dishes. The herb gives a pleasant aromatic flavor to vegetables such as spinach, cauliflower, tomatoes, beans, peas, potato and carrots.
Taste and Uses. Marjoram is a member of the mint and oregano family and is known for its aroma and delicate flavor. Marjoram’s flavor is similar to oregano; however, it has more complicated flavor notes and is often described as sweeter and more delicate. In addition, Marjoram lacks oregano’s spicy undertones.
Marjoram is a plant. You probably recognize it as a common cooking spice. But it also has an interesting place in early Greek mythology. As the story goes, the goddess of love, Aphrodite, grew marjoram, and, as a result, marjoram has been used ever since in various love potions.
Marjoram oil is used for coughs, gall bladder complaints, stomach cramps and digestive disorders, depression, dizziness, migraines, nervous headaches, nerve pain, paralysis, coughs, runny nose; and as a “water pill.”. In foods, marjoram is a culinary spice.
Marjoram Recipe Photo. Once used as a cure for rheumatism, marjoram (or sweet marjoram) is now most closely associated with turkey stuffing. Stuffing is just one of the many uses for this mildly savory herb, however. With a flavor similar to oregano, marjoram nicely complements delicate-tasting foods such as fish, pork, veal, vegetables and egg dishes.
A cousin of the oregano family, marjoram originated in Mediterranean regions and is now a commonly used spice in many parts of Europe. Called za’tar in the Middle East and often mistaken for oregano, it is also a popular spicing in eastern Europe.