Joint pain can be an early symptom of many different diseases. In rheumatoid arthritis, symptoms often develop slowly over a period of weeks or months. Fatigue and stiffness are usually early symptoms. Weight loss and a low-grade fever can also occur. Joint symptoms include: 1  Painful, swollen, tender, stiff joints.
Rheumatoid arthritis is a serious autoimmune disease that attacks the joints and other body parts. But RA can be tough to diagnose. Symptoms can mimic other illnesses, or they may flare, then fade, only to flare again somewhere else. Lab tests aren’t perfectyou can test negative for RA factors and still have it.
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is an autoimmune disease with symptoms that can be caused in part by inflammation. RA symptoms can vary from person to person, including: 1  Joint pain, swelling and stiffness. 2  Fatigue and muscle pain.
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is an autoimmune disease with symptoms that vary from person to person and may include joint pain, swelling and stiffness.
You may have flare-ups when your symptoms become worse than normal. Common symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis include: 1  joint pain and swelling. 2  stiffness. 3  tiredness (fatigue), depression, irritability. 4  anaemia. 5  flu-like symptoms, such as feeling generally ill, feeling hot and sweating.
Arthritis means joint inflammation. The joint inflammation of rheumatoid arthritis causes swelling, pain, stiffness, and redness in the joints. The inflammation of rheumatoid disease can also occur in tissues around the joints, such as the tendons, ligaments, and muscles.
Rheumatoid arthritis is a serious autoimmune disease that attacks the joints and other body parts. But RA can be tough to diagnose. Symptoms can mimic other illnesses, or they may flare, then fade, only to flare again somewhere else. Lab tests aren't perfect—you can test negative for RA factors and still have it.
1 Rheumatoid arthritis is an autoimmune disease that can cause chronic inflammation of the joints and other areas of the body. 2  Rheumatoid arthritis symptoms and signs include. 3  joint pain in the feet, hands, and knees, 4  swollen joints, 5  fever, 6  tender joints, 7  loss of joint function,