Symptoms ... Most people with functional or dissociative neurological symptoms have a combination of symptoms like weakness, numbness and fatigue or blackouts and sleep problems. Click on a symptom on the right or use the menu above to explore the symptoms that are relevant to you. This website is about symptoms which are: • neurological (such as weakness, numbness or blackouts) • REAL (and not imagined) • and due to a PROBLEM with the FUNCTIONING of the nervous system, and NOT due to neurological disease. Swedish. Spanish. Russian. Portuguese.
A functional movement disorder means that there is abnormal movement or positioning of part of the body due to the nervous system not working properly (but not due to an underlying neurological disease). Unlike other movement disorders (e.g., Parkinson's disease), a functional movement disorder is not caused by damage or disease of the nervous system. It is however due to a reversible problem in the way that the nervous system is working
Symptoms of Conversion Disorder. The DSM-5 explains that the primary symptom of conversion disorder is unusual or impaired motor or sensory function with no medial or neurological cause. The symptoms are not faked or made up by the patient. Conversion disorder can occur in both adults and children. Symptoms can be manifested in a variety of ways
Purpose. Background: - Functional movement disorder (FMD) is a form of conversion disorder (CD). CD is a disorder in which a person has neurological symptoms that do not have a neurological cause. These symptoms can include pain, weakness, dizziness, and fatigue. Some thoughts on CD suggest that it may come from feelings of anxiety that are converted into physical symptoms.
Definition. Conversion disorder, also called functional neurological symptom disorder, is a condition in which you show psychological stress in physical ways. 
They’re not just in your head — functional neurological disorders. Functional or psychogenic neurological disorders are conditions with neurological symptoms that are thought to be due to psychological dysfunction rather than an underlying neurological disorder. They can be classified as malingering if the person is intentionally having the symptom
Home. Welcome to FND Hope, Functional Neurological Disorder is due to a problem with the functioning of the nervous system. Functional symptoms are thought to derive from the brain’s inability to send and receive signals properly, as the result of physical and/or psychological precipitating factors. Functional Neurological Disorder is an umbrella term for a variety of symptoms of apparent neurological origin, but current models struggle to explain psychologically or organically. Presentation may be similar to a wide range of other neurological conditions from non-epileptic seizures to dystonia.
Functional Neurological Disorders (FND’s). Functional Neurological Disorders (FND's) is the name given for symptoms in the body which appear to be caused by problems in the nervous system but which are not caused by a physical neurological disease or disorder. When patients first tell a clinician about their symptoms, such serious neurological diseases are often mentioned as possible diagnoses. However, when investigations such as scans are done to check for these diseases, there are no indications that there is any neurological disease or damage in the nervous system.