Being asked to be a godparent is a good opportunity to think about your own faith. Because of your special role, you do have to be christened yourself. If you feel you can make those big promises in church on behalf of your godchild, you’re ready. Take a look at the service to see those promises. Godparents are some of the most important people at a christening. Their main roles are:-. o To be there for the child to talk to about the bigger questions of life.
show more My partner and I were both asked to be Godparents to his nephew, the only problem is that I wasn't christened, I come from a very religious family, with my grandfather being a vicar; but my mother chose not to have me baptised, more out of spite to the rest of my family I think. So, am I able to be a Godparent... No not essential that you are baptised. The Catholic church is a bit uppity about this, you may have to be baptised for them, Im not sure. Im a Godparent and I was baptised although I stopped attending church as soon as I was allowed to as a child.
In some instances, the godfather is responsible for naming the child. A godparent to a child will then act as a sponsor at the child's wedding. Godparents are expected to be in good standing in the Orthodox church, including its rulings on divorce, and aware of the meaning and responsibilities of their role. They cannot be a minor, a parent of the child, or a non-Orthodox Christian. Today, the word godparent does not always have explicitly religious overtones. The secular view of a godparent tends to be an individual chosen by the parents to take an interest in the child's upbringing and personal development, and to take care of the child should anything happen to the parents.
Godparents promise to pray and support the child and to help the parents to bring up the child in the Christian faith. It is an important and responsible role. You should have at least three godparents: two of the same sex as the child and one of the opposite sex. Godparents can be family members or friends.
god parents. Thaey are menat to be christened. I had my daughter christened two weeks before we got maried as the vicar found out we had not had her done and also me and my hubby were onyl blessed as babies and he did not grant this as being christened. I had my ds christened yesterday in a Catholic church. My godparents were two that had been dedicated to the Salvation Army (their version of baptism) - one lapsed, one not. The other two were baptised Catholic but one now attends CofE.
Originally Posted by Ruth C(5) Actually godparents *do* have to be christened...what is the point in asking a non-Christian to be a godparent? I think though that non-Christians can play a special role in the child's life though. I had my ds christened yesterday in a Catholic church. My godparents were two that had been dedicated to the Salvation Army (their version of baptism) - one lapsed, one not. The other two were baptised Catholic but one now attends CofE.
Originally Posted by Rachel R(30) Yep, Godparents have to be christened. it depends on the church as we are methodist & only 2 of the 8 godparents acually attend church & ONE is a semi practicing catholic the other 5 either havent been christened OR non church goers BUT i dont think it even got asked !! I had my ds christened yesterday in a Catholic church. My godparents were two that had been dedicated to the Salvation Army (their version of baptism) - one lapsed, one not. The other two were baptised Catholic but one now attends CofE.
Posts. 10. as many have said it really depends on your vicar/priest. you are supposed to be christened to be a godparent. so many people aren't christened but do have faith so as long as they have the childs best interests at heart, spiritually and emotionally, i don't think it should be a problem. I had my ds christened yesterday in a Catholic church. My godparents were two that had been dedicated to the Salvation Army (their version of baptism) - one lapsed, one not. The other two were baptised Catholic but one now attends CofE.