The aortic valve closes quickly to prevent blood from flowing back into the left ventricle, which is already filling up with new blood. Blood leaves the heart through the aortic valve, into the aorta and to the body. This pattern is repeated, causing blood to flow continuously to the heart, lungs and body. Left Side. Blood flows from your left atrium into your left ventricle through the open mitral valve. When the ventricles are full, the mitral valve shuts. This prevents blood from flowing backward into the atria while the ventricles contract.
Right Side. Blood flows from your right atrium into your right ventricle through the open tricuspid valve. When the ventricles are full, the tricuspid valve shuts. This prevents blood from flowing backward into the atria while the ventricles contract. Left Side. Blood flows from your left atrium into your left ventricle through the open mitral valve. When the ventricles are full, the mitral valve shuts. This prevents blood from flowing backward into the atria while the ventricles contract.
Left Side of the Heart. 1  The pulmonary vein empties oxygen-rich blood from the lungs into the left atrium of the heart. 2  As the atrium contracts, blood flows from your left atrium into your left ventricle through the open mitral valve. 3  When the ventricle is full, the mitral valve shuts. 
Left Side. Blood flows from your left atrium into your left ventricle through the open mitral valve. When the ventricles are full, the mitral valve shuts. This prevents blood from flowing backward into the atria while the ventricles contract (squeeze). Left Side. Blood leaves the heart through the aortic valve, into the aorta and to the body. This pattern is repeated, causing blood to flow continuously to the heart, lungs and body.
Blood flows from the right atrium through the tricuspid valve into the right ventricle. (c). When the right ventricle contracts, the tricuspid valve closes. (d). the right ventricle expels the blood through the pulmonic valve into the pulmonary trunk. (e). the pulmonary trunk divides into a right and left pulmonary artery, each of which carries blood to one lung (Pulmonary circuit). (2) Blood flows through the pulmonary arteries to the lungs. (a). 
The Ventricles CSF is produced mainly by a structure called the choroid plexus in the lateral, third and fourth ventricles. CSF flows from the lateral ventricle to the third ventricle through the interventricular foramen (also called the foramen of Monro). 
Right Side. Blood flows from your right atrium into your right ventricle through the open tricuspid valve. When the ventricles are full, the tricuspid valve shuts. This prevents blood from flowing backward into the atria while the ventricles contract (squeeze). Left Side. Blood leaves the heart through the aortic valve, into the aorta and to the body. This pattern is repeated, causing blood to flow continuously to the heart, lungs and body.
The ventricular system is a set of four interconnected cavities (ventricles) in the brain, where the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) is produced. The ventricular system is continuous with the central canal of the spinal cord (from the fourth ventricle) allowing for the flow of CSF to circulate. All of the ventricular system and the central canal of the spinal cord is lined with ependyma, a specialised form of epithelium.
The left ventricle pumps blood through the aortic semilunar valve into the aorta. From the aorta, blood enters into systemic circulation throughout the body tissues until it returns to the heart via the vena cava and the cycle repeats. From the right ventricle, the blood is pumped through the pulmonary semilunar valve into the pulmonary trunk. The pulmonary trunk carries blood to the lungs where it releases carbon dioxide and absorbs oxygen. The blood in the lungs returns to the heart through the pulmonary veins.