The Inhumans were first introduced in the Marvel Comics universe in the 1960s, and got their own self-titled series in the 1970s. But despite being around for decades, they remain pretty obscure. If you don’t follow comic books, you’ve probably never even heard of them. When Inhumans come of age, they’re exposed to a mutagenic vapor called the Terrigen Mists, which unlock latent superpowers. The substance has a different effect on each Inhuman individual, and can be dangerous for non-Inhumans.
Earth-X (Earth-9997). The history of the Inhumans of Earth-9997 mirrored that of their Earth-616 counterparts, in that they were a group of humans who were selected centuries ago by the Kree for tests in which they were exposed to Terrigen Mists. This allowed for the Inhuman nation to gain great powers.
The Inhumans made their debut in the Ultimate Marvel Universe in Ultimate Fantastic Four Annual #1 (2005). It begins with two mountain climbers reached the walls of their city, Atillan, in the Himalayas when they are turned back with their memories erased. The Alpha Primitives are a slave race created by the Inhumans, first appearing in Fantastic Four #47 (February 1966). Because of the Inhumans' low population, they created a labor force of hominids bred to be strong, but of limited intelligence. They were also rendered unable to breed, being produced only by cloning.
Their test subjects, the Inhumans, went on to form a society of their own, which thrived in seclusion from the rest of humanity and developed advanced technology. Experiments with the mutagenic Terrigen Mist gave them various powers, but also caused lasting genetic damage and deformities. Ronan used the Inhumans in just this manner, disrupting treaties being negotiated by the Shi'ar, and launching attacks on ships and bases. Eventually, Black Bolt sought to free his people by challenging Ronan to a personal battle.
Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. Inhumans. The Inhumans are a race of former ancient human beings that were experimented on by the Kree, locking in their genetic code with the potential to transform and acquire superhuman abilities once exposed to the Terrigen Mist by way of the Terrigen Crystals. They go through a process called Terrigenesis. A Kree warrior named Vin-Tak came to earth after the Diviner was activated by Raina and Skye that became Inhumans. Skye and Bobbi Morse tracked Vin-Tak down to a hospital, where Skye momentarily lost control of her powers.
The Inhumans were once led by the Unspoken. who was dethrone by their current king, Black Bolt, and his royal family, consisting of Medusa, Karnak, Gorgon, Triton, Crystal, Maximus the Mad, and the canine Lockjaw. Ronan used the Inhumans in just this manner, disrupting treaties being negotiated by the Shi'ar, and launching attacks on ships and bases. Eventually, Black Bolt sought to free his people by challenging Ronan to a personal battle.
The Inhumans are a superpowered offshoot of humanity, created by the Kree (the alien race that Guardians of the Galaxy ’s Ronan belongs to) millions of years ago in genetic experiments on Cro-Magnons. When Inhumans come of age, they’re exposed to a mutagenic vapor called the Terrigen Mists, which unlock latent superpowers. The substance has a different effect on each Inhuman individual, and can be dangerous for non-Inhumans.
Production. In 2011, Marvel Studios began developing a film adaptation of The Inhumans. On August 12, 2014 it was announced Marvel will be moving forward with the project. On October 28, 2014 in a Marvel live event, Kevin Feige had a Questions & Answers session where the release date of the film was announced
The Inhumans are a race of altered human beings that were the result of experiments on ancient humans by the extraterrestrial race, the Kree, embedding into their genetic code the potential to transform and acquire superhuman abilities through a process known as Terrigenesis. Jiaying sent a team of Inhumans including Gordon, Alisha, and Lincoln Campbell to the Iliad in order to hijack it. The Inhumans quickly took over the ship and welcomed Jiaying onto the ship, along with cases of synthetic Terrigen Crystals.