Actually all arteries carry blood away from the heart and all veins carry blood to the heart. the pulmonary artery carries blood from the right ventricle to the lungs to be oxygenated the pulmonary vein carries oxygneated blood from the lungs to the left artrium. · just now. Report Abuse. Actually all arteries carry blood away from the heart and all veins carry blood to the heart. the pulmonary artery carries blood from the right ventricle to the lungs to be oxygenated the pulmonary vein carries oxygneated blood from the lungs to the left artrium. keary · 7 years ago. Thumbs up.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Arteries are the blood vessels that take blood away from the heart. Blood in the arteries are brown as they go away from the heart and blood travelling to the heart in veins are coloured red as it has just been replenished when passing the lungs. 
Capillaries. Capillaries, the smallest and most numerous of the blood vessels, form the connection between the vessels that carry blood away from the heart (arteries) and the vessels that return blood to the heart (veins). The primary function of capillaries is the exchange of materials between the blood and tissue cells. Systemic arteries transport oxygenated blood from the left ventricle to the body tissues. Blood is pumped from the ventricles into large elastic arteries that branch repeatedly into smaller and smaller arteries until the branching results in microscopic arteries called arterioles.
Arteries (from Greek ἀρτηρία (artēria) , meaning windpipe, artery) are blood vessels that carry blood away from the heart. While most arteries carry oxygenated blood, there are two exceptions to this, the pulmonary and the umbilical arteries. They carry blood that is oxygenated after it has been pumped from the heart. Arteries also aid the heart in pumping blood. Arteries carry oxygenated blood away from the heart to the tissues, except for pulmonary arteries, which carry blood to the lungs for oxygenation.
THE ARTERIES. Efferent vessels are blood vessels that bring blood away from the heart. The arteries are such blood vessels. Arteries carry blood away from the heart. Most arteries carry oxygen-rich blood. The pulmonary artery is an exception-it carries deoxygenated blood from the heart to the lungs. The arteries are connected to the capillaries through the arterioles. 
Blood vessels also play a role in controlling your blood pressure. Blood vessels are found throughout the body. There are five main types of blood vessels: arteries, arterioles, capillaries, venules and veins. Arteries carry blood away from the heart to other organs. Groups of capillaries within a tissue reunite to form small veins called venules. Venules collect blood from capillaries and drain into veins. Veins are the blood vessels that carry blood back to the heart. They may contain valves which stop blood flowing away from the heart. The heart works by following a sequence of electrical signals that cause the muscles in each chamber to contract in a certain order
There are three major types of blood vessels: the arteries, which carry the blood away from the heart; the capillaries, which enable the actual exchange of water and chemicals between the blood and the tissues; and the veins, which carry blood from the capillaries back toward the heart. 
They are called arteries, while veins carry the blood back.   the vessels that carry blood to/from your heart are arteries.   the vessels that carry the blood around you … r body are veins and capillaries. 
Arteries carry blood away from the heart. Pulmonary arteries transport blood that has a low oxygen content from the right ventricle to the lungs. Systemic arteries transport oxygenated blood from the left ventricle to the body tissues. Blood is pumped from the ventricles into large elastic arteries that branch repeatedly into smaller and smaller arteries until the branching results in microscopic arteries called arterioles.