The Second Continental Congress was a convention of delegates from the Thirteen Colonies that started meeting on May 10, 1775, in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, soon after warfare in the American Revolutionary War had begun.
Benjamin Franklin (April 17, 1790) was one of the Founding Fathers of the United States. The Second Continental Congress was a convention of delegates from the Thirteen Colonies that started meeting on May 10, 1775, in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, soon after warfare in the American Revolutionary War had begun. 5.0/5.
On this day in 1775, the Second Continental Congress, meeting in Philadelphia, establishes a Committee of Secret Correspondence. The committee's goal was to provide European nations with a Patriot interpretation of events in Britain's North American colonies, in the hope of soliciting aid for the American war effort.
American statesman and inventor Benjamin Franklin was the first U.S. Postmaster General, appointed by the Second Continental Congress in 1775. He had served previously as postmaster under British rule, implementing an accounting method for postmasters, fee-based newspaper delivery, and home mail delivery.
Continental Congress. Franklin returned to Philadelphia in 1775. There he served as a delegate to the Continental Congress, where he was instrumental in drafting the Declaration of Independence and the Articles of Confederation to form a new union.
The Second Continental Congress met as agreed on May 5, 1775. This was after the battles at Lexington and Concord on April 19th. Sam Adams, John Adams, Benjamin Franklin, John Hancock, Patrick Henry, and George Washington were some of the delegates.
First Postmaster General under the Continental Congress Back on American soil in 1775, Franklin was part of the Second Continental Congress and served on many committees, including one to establish an independent postal system.
Benjamin Franklin (April 17, 1790) was one of the Founding Fathers of the United States. The Second Continental Congress was a convention of delegates from the Thirteen Colonies that started meeting on May 10, 1775, in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, soon after warfare in the American Revolutionary War had begun. 5.0/5.