An invisible fence (or electric, hidden or underground fence) keeps pets inside an invisible boundary via electronic underground wires that send signals to a receiver on the pet's collar. 1 If living in an area with frequent thunderstorms, consider buying a lightning protector. 2  These cost between $35 and $55. 3  Keep in mind that an invisible fence doesn't keep other dogs, animals or people out of the yard.
1 For example, a 500-foot spool of PetSafe boundary wire costs about $30. 2  One of the most common problems with these type of fences is that the wire can go bad. 3  Depending on how often your dog receives a shock from the fence, the battery in the collar will need to be replaced. 4  A battery will cost $5-$15. 1 If your receiver collar breaks, a replacement collar will cost between $50 and $150 depending on the brand, strength, and features. 2  Petco sells Innotek Smart Dog extra receivers for $140. 3  Dog owners may opt to purchase an additional collar, just in case one breaks down the road.
1 Additional collars for additional dogs cost between $55 and $130. 2  A do-it-yourself kit may not include enough wire. 3  Additional wire costs between $23 and $70 depending on length (usually between 500 and 1,000 feet) and durability. 1 If living in an area with frequent thunderstorms, consider buying a lightning protector. 2  These cost between $35 and $55. 3  Keep in mind that an invisible fence doesn't keep other dogs, animals or people out of the yard.
Know that the cost will vary greatly depending on which kind of electric fence you are investing in. Most invisible electric fences and collars come in packages and can be bought at pet stores or online for anywhere from $100-400. 
Cost of a Dog Fence. Installing an electric dog fence system will costs around $300 for a good system and $50 more if you need to rent a trencher for installation. A big national company like Invisible Fence will cost you around $1,500 for installation in an average sized yard with one dog. 
Costs. An invisible fence kit comes with an electronic collar, wire to cover a set amount of yard, a transformer to charge the perimeter wire, and batteries for the electronic collar, also called a receiver. In 2010, a basic kit such as this will cost between $75 and $170 dollars. Extra receivers cost approximately $55. 
1 These cost between $35 and $55. 2  Keep in mind that an invisible fence doesn't keep other dogs, animals or people out of the yard. 3  The commercial site Dog-Fence-Guide.com provides an overview and links to reviews of various invisible fence products. 1 If living in an area with frequent thunderstorms, consider buying a lightning protector. 2  These cost between $35 and $55. 3  Keep in mind that an invisible fence doesn't keep other dogs, animals or people out of the yard.
DogWatch® is not Invisible®. DogWatch “hidden dog fences” are often mistakenly referred to generically as “invisible fences” or “invisible dog fences.” Invisible Fence ® and Invisible Fencing ® are Brand names, products and registered trademarks of Radio Systems, Inc.
1 A do-it-yourself kit may not include enough wire. 2  Additional wire costs between $23 and $70 depending on length (usually between 500 and 1,000 feet) and durability. 3  The collar battery will last between three months and a year depending on how often the pet challenges the system. 1 If living in an area with frequent thunderstorms, consider buying a lightning protector. 2  These cost between $35 and $55. 3  Keep in mind that an invisible fence doesn't keep other dogs, animals or people out of the yard.