It causes the pancreas to produce more insulin and lower blood sugar levels after meals. Starlix ® (nateglinide) is a prescription medication that is used to treat type 2 diabetes (also known as non-insulin-dependent diabetes or adult-onset diabetes). Side effects are possible, such as low blood sugar, flu-like symptoms, and dizzines
Uses. Nateglinide is used alone or with other medications to control high blood sugar along with a proper diet and exercise program. It is used in people with type 2 diabetes. Controlling high blood sugar helps prevent kidney damage, blindness, nerve problems, loss of limbs, and sexual function problems. Proper control of diabetes may also lessen your risk of a heart attack or stroke. It works by stimulating the body to produce more insulin.
Starlix is an oral diabetes medicine that helps control blood sugar levels. Starlix helps your body respond better to insulin produced by your pancreas. Starlix is used together with diet and exercise to treat type 2 (non-insulin dependent) diabetes. Other diabetes medicines are sometimes used in combination with if needed. Important information about Starlix. Do not use Starlix if you are allergic to nateglinide, if you have type 1 diabetes, or if you are in a state of diabetic ketoacidosis (call your doctor for treatment with insulin). Starlix is only part of a complete program of treatment that also includes diet, exercise, and weight control
Starlix can help lower blood sugar levels in people with type 2 diabetes. Starlix ® (nateglinide) is a prescription medication that is used to treat type 2 diabetes (also known as non-insulin-dependent diabetes or adult-onset diabetes). Side effects are possible, such as low blood sugar, flu-like symptoms, and dizzines
Starlix is part of a group of diabetes medications called meglitinides. A meglitinide helps the pancreas make more insulin, which helps to lower blood sugar. Another type of diabetes medications, called sulfonylureas (see Starlix Alternatives) , also helps the pancreas make more insulin. However, unlike sulfonylureas, Starlix is short-acting and is used to lower blood sugar levels after meals. Side effects are possible, such as low blood sugar, flu-like symptoms, and dizziness. Starlix ® (nateglinide) is a prescription medication that is used to treat type 2 diabetes (also known as non-insulin-dependent diabetes or adult-onset diabetes).
DRUG CLASS AND MECHANISM: Nateglinide is an oral drug used to lower blood sugar (glucose) levels in type 2 diabetes. It is in a class of drugs called meglitinides which also includes repaglinide (Prandin). Approximately 90% of patients with diabetes have type 2 diabetes. Type 2 diabetes usually occurs in adults and is associated with obesity and a strong family history of diabetes. Insulin is an important hormone that controls the blood level of glucose. Type 2 diabetics have an inability to control blood glucose levels.
Do not use this medication if you are allergic to nateglinide, if you have type 1 diabetes, or if you are in a state of diabetic ketoacidosis (call your doctor for treatment with insulin). Before taking Starlix, tell your doctor if you are allergic to any medications, or if you have liver disease or gout. Important information about Starlix. Do not use Starlix if you are allergic to nateglinide, if you have type 1 diabetes, or if you are in a state of diabetic ketoacidosis (call your doctor for treatment with insulin). Starlix is only part of a complete program of treatment that also includes diet, exercise, and weight control
Nateglinide (INN, trade name Starlix) is a drug for the treatment of type 2 diabetes. Nateglinide was developed by Ajinomoto, a Japanese company and sold by the Swiss pharmaceutical company Novartis. Nateglinide belongs to the meglitinide class of blood glucose-lowering drugs. 