Posted on. (Answer #1). DNA, or Deoxyribonucleic Acid, is a double helix, with a backbone that is made up of alternating molecules of deoxyribose, a five-carbon sugar with the chemical formula C5H10O4 and molecules of phosphate, an inorganic salt with the formula PO4. 
To answer your question, the sides, or the backbone of the DNA is made up of alternating phosphate and deoxyribose residues. On the carbon labeled #1 on the deoxyribose sugar, you have the base added to it. DNA is made up of two complimentary chains of nucleic acids. Each of these complimentary strains has two ends, a 5' end and a 3' end. They refer to the number of the carbon on the deoxyribose.
The sides of the DNA latter consist of the sugar deoxyribose and phosphates. The bond between the latter and the nitrogen bases together is known a a nucleotide. Nucleotides a … re molecules that make up the structure of DNA and RNA. The backbone of the DNA molecule is made up of a sugar (deoxyribose) bonded to a phosphate group bonded to another sugar and then another phosphate and so on. These are very s … trong covalent bonds that are not easily broken. 4 people found this useful.
Best Answer: First of all to the guy above me, DNA is deoxyribonucleic acid, so it cant be made of itself. Next off, the rungs are made of bases. The bases are Adenine, Guanine, Cytosine, and Thymine. The sides are made up of a sugar molecule and a phosphate. Together the base, sugar, and phosphates make up a nucleotide, which is the subunit of DNA. DNA is made up of two complimentary chains of nucleic acids. Each of these complimentary strains has two ends, a 5' end and a 3' end. They refer to the number of the carbon on the deoxyribose.
DNA structure. DNA is made up of molecules called nucleotides. Each nucleotide contains a phosphate group, a sugar group and a nitrogen base. The four types of nitrogen bases are adenine (A), thymine (T), guanine (G) and cytosine (C). The order of these bases is what determines DNA's instructions, or genetic cod
The sides of the DNA latter consist of the sugar deoxyribose and phosphates. The bond between the latter and the nitrogen bases together is known a a nucleotide. Nucleotides a … re molecules that make up the structure of DNA and RNA. The backbone of the DNA molecule is made up of a sugar (deoxyribose) bonded to a phosphate group bonded to another sugar and then another phosphate and so on. These are very s … trong covalent bonds that are not easily broken. 4 people found this useful. 1  How to Use Mascara Make-up has many different uses and purposes
Other combinations of the atoms form the four bases: thymine (T), adenine (A), cytosine (C), and guanine (G). These bases are the rungs of the DNA ladder. (It takes two bases to form a rung -- one for each side of the ladder.). A sugar molecule, a base, and a phosphate molecule group together to make up a nucleotide. Nucleotides are abundant in the cell's nucleus. Nucleotides are the units which, when linked sugar to phosphate, make up one side of a DNA ladder
(A grouping like this of a phosphate, a sugar, and a base makes up a subunit of DNA called a nucleotide.) These bases make up the 'rungs' of the ladder, and are attached to the backbone where the deoxyribose (sugar) molecules are located. 