For over 450 years, the coastal exclaves of Daman (Portuguese: Damao) damão And diu on The Arabian sea coast were part Of Portuguese, india along With goa And dadra And Nagar. haveli The territory of Goa, Daman, and Diu was administered as a single union territory until 1987, when Goa was granted statehood, leaving Daman and Diu as a separate union territory.
Daman & Diu are well connected by roads, and are 12 km from Vapi, 125 km from Surat, and 150 km from Mumbai. Daman isn't actually connected by railway but Vapi is, with all major cities. Nearest airport is Mumbai. The territory of Goa, Daman, and Diu was administered as a single union territory until 1987, when Goa was granted statehood, leaving Daman and Diu as a separate union territory.
Diu is a town in Diu district in the union territory of Daman and Diu, India. The town of Diu lies at the eastern end of Diu Island, and is known for its fortress and old Portuguese Cathedral. It is also a fishing town. It is the tenth least populated district of India. From the 18th century, Diu declined in strategic importance, due to development of Bombay and came to be reduced to a museum or historical landmark as commercial and strategic bulwark in the struggle between the forces of the Islamic East and Christian West.
Diu was a Portuguese colony from 1539 to 1961, when the Indian government used military action to retake all the Portuguese enclaves. Apart from Diu, also Daman, Goa, Dadra and Nagar Haveli were captured in this conflict. Diu Jail: It is in the middle of the jetty near the main city of Diu and has been in use since the Portuguese times. A sight to see during the night. Sea Shell Museum: You must visit the Sea Shell Museum near the airport; you will surprised to see shells from around the world. A ticket is just 10/- , but worth it.
For over 450 years, the coastal exclaves of Daman (Portuguese: Damao) damão And diu on The Arabian sea coast were part Of Portuguese, india along With goa And dadra And Nagar. Haveli, Goa, daman And diu were incorporated into The republic Of india On december, 19 1961 by military. conquest The territory of Goa, Daman, and Diu was administered as a single union territory until 1987, when Goa was granted statehood, leaving Daman and Diu as a separate union territory.
Diu-A Beautiful Place of Gujarat-India. The town of Diu, also a union territory of India with a coastal length of 21 kms, is a beautiful island located nearby the coast of kathiyawad region at veraval port. Hotels in Diu provide 24*7 in-house facilities along with a travel desk and reception that is round the clock available for visitors. These hotels also provide with all the basic and luxurious amenities that includes premises security, luggage, and laundry, dry cleaning facilities as well.
Diu. a small Portuguese island, with a port of the same name, in the Gulf of Cambay, S. of the peninsula of Gujarat, India; was a flourishing place once, and contained a famous Hindu temple; inhabited now chiefly by fishermen.
Diu. Diu is a common profanity in Cantonese. It can be regarded as the Cantonese equivalent of the English fuck. The character, in Mandarin, is also used by young people in Taiwan to mean cool. 
Diu does not have a railway station. The nearest railway junction is Veraval, which is 90 km from Diu. A direct train connects Verval to Ahmedabad. The nearest railway station from Diu is Delwada, which is 8 km from Diu. It is on a meter-gauge line where only two trains come daily from Junagadh and Veraval. Diu Jail: It is in the middle of the jetty near the main city of Diu and has been in use since the Portuguese times. A sight to see during the night. Sea Shell Museum: You must visit the Sea Shell Museum near the airport; you will surprised to see shells from around the world. A ticket is just 10/- , but worth it.