Which children are not affected? A child over the age of 12 or more than 135cm tall, may use an adult seat belt. However, the Department for Transport recommends that children should continue using booster cushions or booster seats until they are 150cm (4ft 11in) tall. 
Laws aside, kids aren't ready to make the switch from a booster seat to seat belts until they're at least 4 feet 9 inches tall and can pass the five-step test below — typically between ages 8 and 10. 
1 The shoulder belt should fit across the shoulder and chest. 2  Older kids get weighed and measured less often than babies, so check your child's growth a few times a year. 3  Generally, kids need to use a booster seat until they are at least 4 feet 9 inches tall and weigh between 80 and 100 pounds. 1 Older kids get weighed and measured less often than babies, so check your child's growth a few times a year. 2
1 Generally, kids need to use a booster seat until they are at least 4 feet 9 inches tall and weigh between 80 and 100 pounds. 2  For most kids, they will be between ages 8 to 12 year old. 3  We know that when adults wear seat belts, kids wear seat belts. 1 Older kids get weighed and measured less often than babies, so check your child's growth a few times a year. 2 
1 Older kids get weighed and measured less often than babies, so check your child’s growth a few times a year. 2  Generally, kids need to use a booster until they are at least 4 feet 9 inches tall and weigh between 80 and 100 pounds. 3  For most kids, they will be between ages 8 to 12 years old. Children seated in a booster seat in the back seat of the car are 45% less likely to be injured in a crash than children using a seat belt alone.
Boosters Are For Big Kids Most kids need to ride in a booster seat from about age 4 until age 10-12. If your child isn’t using a booster, try the simple test below the next time you ride together in the car. You may find that your child is not yet ready to use a safety belt without a booster. 
If all back seats are occupied by children under 4, then a child under 4 may ride in a car seat in the front seat. A child in a rear-facing car seat may only ride in the front seat if the airbag is turned off.Children to be properly buckled in a car seat or booster seat until they are 8 years old or 4’9” tall. Children must ride in a seat until they reach the age requirement or the height requirement, whichever comes first. 
Children no longer need to use a booster seat once seat belts fit them properly. Seat belts fit properly when the lap belt lays across the upper thighs (not the stomach) and the shoulder belt lays across the chest (not the neck). The recommended height for proper seat belt fit is 57 inches tall. Age 2 up to at least Age 5: Forward-facing car seat. When children outgrow their rear-facing seats they should be buckled in a forward-facing car seat, in the back seat, until at least age 5 or when they reach the upper weight or height limit of their particular seat.
1 Generally, kids need to use a booster until they are at least 4 feet 9 inches tall and weigh between 80 and 100 pounds. 2  For most kids, they will be between ages 8 to 12 years old. 3  Talk with everyone who drives your kids so they understand that booster seat use is a must when your child is in their vehicles. Children seated in a booster seat in the back seat of the car are 45% less likely to be injured in a crash than children using a seat belt alone.
A backless booster. A booster seat is used to lift up a child and properly position the vehicle's lap/shoulder belts on children who are too small to fit the adult seat belt. Boosters are rated for use from 30-40 lbs to 80-100 lbs. Booster seats do not have a harness. 