Pouring vinegar and baking soda down the drain disinfects it. Mildew grows in dark, dank places, and sink pipes provide an ideal habitat for mildew spores to spread. The growth can contribute to clogged drains and release a foul odor into your kitchen or bathroom. Pour 1 cup of distilled white vinegar down the funnel. Quickly pull the funnel out. The vinegar's reaction with the baking soda creates a frothy, mildly abrasive compound that cleanses the pipe.
If you notice a foul odor coming from the overflow pipe in your sink, the pipe is probably harboring a layer of gunk and a colony of bacteria. Even though you can't access this pipe as easily as you can access the drain itself, you can still clean it fairly quickly. 
- Take out the drain stopper and look down the drain pipe for gunk. Clean it out with a snake or unraveled coat hanger if you can. - Spray bleach down the drain and overflow drain to kill anything nasty in there. You can bleach the basin too for cleanliness. - Get a large bowl or 1-5 gallon bucket. Fill it with water. Quickly but carefully pour all the water down the drain
A buildup of bacteria in your sink overflow area can cause it to become stanky. This is the hole near the top of your sink. There are are couple of ways you can deal with the funkiness and get your sink area smelling fine again. Fill a bucket with some vinegar and water. Pour it into the overflow hole to kill the smell. You can also use a bleach and water solution if you wish.
You might try using bleach to remove the odor. However; the drain may not be the problem. You may even want to inspect under the sink and see if there are signs of mildew. Source(s): Find helpful home improvement tips at http://best-home-improvement-projects.co... 
1 Spray bleach down the drain and overflow drain to kill anything nasty in there. 2  You can bleach the basin too for cleanliness. 3  Get a large bowl or 1-5 gallon bucket. 4  Fill it with water. 5  Quickly but carefully pour all the water down the drain. 1 Take out the drain stopper and look down the drain pipe for gunk. 2  Clean it out with a snake or unraveled coat hanger if you can. 3  Spray bleach down the drain and overflow drain to kill anything nasty in there. 4  You can bleach the basin too for cleanliness. 5  Get a large bowl or 1-5 gallon bucket. 6  Fill it with water
Homemade Drain Cleaner. Pour 1/4 cup baking soda into your drain, add 1 cup white vinegar. Allow this to bubble for 5 minutes. Add 1 cup boiling water, & let stand for 5 minutes longer. Then flush running tap water through for a few minutes. If you have a double sink, do one side first before doing the other side. Question: Removing Mold in Sink Drain. Like a lot of others who have asked similar questions, I too have moldy and bad odors coming from my drains. When we shower or run the water, or let the water out, there is a bad odor, and moldy odors that travel throughout the house through the AC vents.
Disinfecting the Drain. A number of disinfecting products can rid your drain of odors, and while bleach is one of them, you should avoid it if you're in the habit of pouring other cleaning solutions in the sink. It releases poisonous gas in combination with ammonia, which is a common cleaning ingredient. Found This Helpful. KeremYucel/iStock/Getty Images. If your sink drain is functioning properly, a pool of water in the P-trap blocks sewer odors from wafting into the kitchen, so if you're detecting musty smells, they are probably coming from the top of the drain.