The Domain Name System is defined by Request for Comments (RFC) documents published by the Internet Engineering Task Force (Internet standards). The following is a list of RFCs that define the DNS protocol. A DNS name server is a server that stores the DNS records for a domain name; a DNS name server responds with answers to queries against its database.
If you are looking for a domain, WhoIs domain lookup can tell you if it's already owned by another entity and provide contact information for the domain name owner. WhoIs domain information can help you determine the proper contact for any domain listed in the Whois database. A WhoIs lookup identifies the administrator contact information, billing contact and the technical contact for each domain name listing or IP in the WhoIs database. Use WhoIs lookup anytime you want to perform a search to see who owns a domain name, how many pages from a site are listed with Google or even search WhoIs address listings for a website's owner.
WHOIS. The WHOIS database is a searchable list of every single domain currently registered in the world. To find out who owns a particular domain name, all you have to do is type it into the box above. The Internet Corporation of Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN) requires accredited registrars like GoDaddy.com to publish the registrant's contact information, domain creation and expiration dates and other information in the WHOIS listing as soon as a domain is registered.
The data contained in GoDaddy.com's WHOIS database, while believed by the company to be reliable, is provided as is with no guarantee or warranties regarding its accuracy. This information is provided for the sole purpose of assisting you in obtaining information about domain name registration records. The Internet Corporation of Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN) requires accredited registrars like GoDaddy.com to publish the registrant's contact information, domain creation and expiration dates and other information in the WHOIS listing as soon as a domain is registered.
A domain name is an identification string that defines a realm of administrative autonomy, authority or control within the Internet. Domain names are formed by the rules and procedures of the Domain Name System (DNS). Any name registered in the DNS is a domain name. Domain names can also be thought of as a location where certain information or activities can be found. Domain names are used in various networking contexts and application-specific naming and addressing purposes. The right to use a domain name is delegated by domain name registrars, which are accredited by the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN), the organization charged with overseeing the name and number systems of
The name, address and phone number you submit when you register your domain is publicly accessible by anyone at any time. This may be good news if you have a domain name you'd like to sell. Or it may be bad news if your name and contact info is collected by a spammer, hacker or other cyber-criminal. The Internet Corporation of Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN) requires accredited registrars like GoDaddy.com to publish the registrant's contact information, domain creation and expiration dates and other information in the WHOIS listing as soon as a domain is registered.
The WHOIS Lookup. “WHOIS” is the utility that is used to check or find out the information about a domain name. This gives not only the information of the registrant but also the administrative contact, billing contact, technical contact, domain expiration date and original registration date. A WHOIS Example. Now, here is a practical illustration of how to determine who owns a domain name. We will take the example of www.DomainSherpa.com as an example website and let us explore as who owns this domain.
Determining a domain name registrant is important for many reasons: 1  The lookup can verify that the registrant details of your personal domains are properly entered. 2  If they are not, you may miss renewal notices, purchase offers, partnership requests and the like. A WHOIS Example. Now, here is a practical illustration of how to determine who owns a domain name. We will take the example of www.DomainSherpa.com as an example website and let us explore as who owns this domain.
A registrant is the person or entity who is considered to be the domain name owner authorized to make or request for changes to be made in vital information related to domain name. A WHOIS Example. Now, here is a practical illustration of how to determine who owns a domain name. We will take the example of www.DomainSherpa.com as an example website and let us explore as who owns this domain.
WhoIs lets you perform a domain whois search, whois IP lookup and search the whois database for relevant information on domain registration and availability. This can help provide insight into a domain's history and additional information. Use WhoIs lookup anytime you want to perform a search to see who owns a domain name, how many pages from a site are listed with Google or even search WhoIs address listings for a website's owner.