Adams County, Pennsylvania. After his astounding victory at the Battle of Chancellorsville, Virginia, in May 1863, Robert E. Lee led his Army of Northern Virginia in its second invasion of the North—the Gettysburg Campaign. 
Introduction. The Battle of Gettysburg, fought from July 1 to July 3, 1863, is considered the most important engagement of the American Civil War. After a great victory over Union forces at Chancellorsville, General Robert E. Lee marched his Army of Northern Virginia into Pennsylvania in late June 1863. On July 1, the advancing Confederates clashed with the Union’s Army of the Potomac, commanded by General George G. Meade, at the crossroads town of Gettysburg.
Confederate: General Robert E. Lee. Outcome: Union Victory. 51,000 casualties of which 28,000 were Confederate soldiers. Significance of the Battle of Gettysburg: Robert E. Lee attempted and failed to invade the North in a move designed to take pressure off of Virginia and possibly earn a victory that could end the war. The failure of Pickett’s Charge meant that the South had lost
Elements of the two armies initially collided at Gettysburg on July 1, 1863, as Lee urgently concentrated his forces there, his objective being to engage the Union army and destroy it. Low ridges to the northwest of town were defended initially by a Union cavalry division under Brig. On the third day of battle, fighting resumed on Culp's Hill, and cavalry battles raged to the east and south, but the main event was a dramatic infantry assault by 12,500 Confederates against the center of the Union line on Cemetery Ridge, known as Pickett's Charge.
The Battle of Gettysburg 1st to 3rd July 1863 was fought in and  around the town of Gettysburg, Pennsylvania, and was described as a  turning point for the Civil War. . The Battle of Gettysburg (July 1-3, 1863) was a major battle of the US Civil War. It took place in and south of Gettysburg, PA, only about 10 miles north of the Maryland borde … r in south central Pennsylvania.
The Battle of Gettysburg, fought in July 1863, was a Union victory that stopped Confederate General Robert E. Lee's second invasion of the North. Instructor: Daniel Vermilya. The Battle of Gettysburg, fought in July 1863, was a Union victory that stopped Confederate General Robert E. Lee's second invasion of the North. More than 50,000 men fell as casualties during the 3-day battle, making it the bloodiest battle of the American Civil War.
The Battle of Gettysburg was the largest and bloodiest battle ever fought in North America. During the first three days of July 1863, the Union Army of the Potomac and the Confederate Army of Northern Virginia turned a small town in Southern Pennsylvania into the site of a struggle for the future of the United States. Instructor: Daniel Vermilya. The Battle of Gettysburg, fought in July 1863, was a Union victory that stopped Confederate General Robert E. Lee's second invasion of the North. More than 50,000 men fell as casualties during the 3-day battle, making it the bloodiest battle of the American Civil War.
Lee's Army Marches North. After the Confederate victory at Chancellorsville in May of 1863, Confederate General Robert E. Lee decided to make a daring move. He would invade the North for a second time. He had pushed into Maryland the year before, but now his target was even farther north. He would go to Pennsylvania. Lee's army began its northward march on June 10. As the month progressed, so did the army. The Union army, led by General George Meade, was slow to give chase, not heading north until June 25. By June 30, however, the stage was set for battle around the little town of Gettysburg,
The whole tide of the war was changed because for the first time, the Confederate army suffered a terrible defeat. Up to that point, Lee had won most battles against the Federal Army and he was moving into Pennsylvannia to gather more supplies and stores for his army. The Battle of Gettysburg (July 1-3, 1863) was a major battle of the US Civil War. It took place in and south of Gettysburg, PA, only about 10 miles north of the Maryland borde … r in south central Pennsylvania.
The Battle of Gettysburg (local /ˈɡɛtɨsbɜrɡ/ , with an /s/ sound) was fought July 1–3, 1863, in and around the town of Gettysburg, Pennsylvania, by Union and Confederate forces during the American Civil War. On the third day of battle, fighting resumed on Culp's Hill, and cavalry battles raged to the east and south, but the main event was a dramatic infantry assault by 12,500 Confederates against the center of the Union line on Cemetery Ridge, known as Pickett's Charge.