How to make the text larger in Mac OS X. Back to How to guides-I can't see very well. This page explains step-by-step how to increase the size of text and other elements in Mac OS X by either increasing the font size or decreasing the screen resolution. This opens the 'Desktop' window shown in Fig 2. Fig 1. Click on the drop-down button next to ' Text size ' and choose a font size up to 16pt (there's no keyboard shortcut). You can also make the icon smaller or larger by clicking and dragging the ' Icon size ' slider (again, no keyboard shortcut), as
Best Answer: I have a mac and i can set the text so i can see it clearly everytime and you can program the screen to do fullscreen everytime by just pulling the bottom right hand corner and click new window and i should work. 
Once again, right-click on the desktop and click Screen Resolution, and then click Make text and other items larger or smaller. In the resulting dialog, click the Set custom text size (DPI) link. You can select a custom percentage by using the drop-down or typing in your own percentage value. In Windows 7, right-click on your desktop and click Screen Resolution. No, we’re not going to change the resolution after all, but the link for the setting that we do want is there: Click Make text and other items larger or smaller. As you can see, this setting will increase the size of everything, including text.
If the default size of text on the Mac’s desktop is too small for people to easily read, you can increase the size. The faster you can locate items on the Mac’s desktop, the more efficiently you can access your files, folders and mounted drives. Step 1. Related Reading: How to Lock the Desktop on a Mac. Step 3. Click the “Text Size” drop-down menu, and then click a larger text size number, such as 14 or 16. The text size on your Mac’s desktop adjusts accordingly.
Step 1: Change the text size of files and folders on your desktop. Make sure you are in 'Finder'. If necessary, press Apple + Tab to cycle through the open applications until you return to 'Finder'. Click on ' View ' on the menu bar and select ' Show View Options ', as shown in Fig 1, or press Apple + J. This opens the 'Desktop' window shown in Fig 2. Fig 1. Click on the drop-down button next to ' Text size ' and choose a font size up to 16pt (there's no keyboard shortcut). You can also make the icon smaller or larger by clicking and dragging the ' Icon size ' slider (again, no keyboard shortcut), as
Step 2. Click “View” from the Finder menu, and then click “Show View Options.” The desktop options window appears. Related Reading: How to Lock the Desktop on a Mac. Step 3. Click the “Text Size” drop-down menu, and then click a larger text size number, such as 14 or 16. The text size on your Mac’s desktop adjusts accordingly. Step 4. Click the red circle in the upper left corner of the options window to close it
Click on the drop-down button next to ' Text size ' and choose a font size up to 16pt (there's no keyboard shortcut). You can also make the icon smaller or larger by clicking the radio buttons next to the ' Icon size ' header (again, no keyboard shortcut), as shown in Fig 2. This opens the 'Desktop' window shown in Fig 2. Fig 1. Click on the drop-down button next to ' Text size ' and choose a font size up to 16pt (there's no keyboard shortcut). You can also make the icon smaller or larger by clicking and dragging the ' Icon size ' sli
If you use OS X on a Mac with a small screen—be that a 12-inch PowerBook G4 or a modified PC netbook of some sort—one of the biggest challenges is that OS X really wasn’t designed for small screens. Some applications may not even install, due to checks on screen resolution. 
You can make the text on your computer easier to see and read in a number of ways. These guides explain how to increase the text size in your operating system (Windows, Mac or Linux). You can also make the text bigger in specific programmes such as web browsers, which will make it easier to surf the internet.
However, if you have trouble reading the default fonts in the other programs or Windows dialogs, here's how to increase the size on a system-wide level: 1 - Right click your Desktop background and choose Resolution. 2 - Click the link at the bottom of the page called make text and other items larger or smaller. 3 - Set the option to 125 or 150% of normal size, then Apply your changes to see if it meets your needs. If not, you can return to fine-tune your adjustments.