Here are a few things that may affect the cost of installing a ceiling fan. There are ceiling fans in every possible style from traditional carved oak to slick stainless steel, to fans that resemble the propellers of old airplanes. No matter what your style there is a ceiling fan made to match. Which ceiling fan you choose will affect the price of the project of course. There are as many prices for ceiling fans as there are fans to choose from, so choose one that fits your style and budget.
Read on for tips on buying fans for your family room. Buying a Ceiling Fan: Find a remote-control ceiling fan for convenience. If you have a large family room and don't want to get up to turn on your ceiling fan during the movie you're watching, why not install a remote-control Read More.
Lowe's Ceiling Fan Install. Find ceiling fans for every room in your home. Use a Lowe's professional installer and save 30% on installation when you have multiple fans installed. Use our 2013 Ceiling Fan Guide to choose ceiling fans to suit your taste and lifestyle. Get Inspired. Browse ceiling fans on Lowes.com or at your local Lowe's store. Work with a Lowe's sales associate to plan your install project and select the right ceiling fan for your home and budget. 2. Get Started. Get an in-store installation quote.
1 Fans at the low end of the price range tend to come with 10-15 year warranties; higher-end models often have 50-year or lifetime guarantees. 2  Better Homes & Gardens lists detailed instructions for installing a ceiling fan, and ThisOldHouse.com explains how to use a fan properly to reduce air conditioning costs. 1 Electrical contractors generally charge $30-$70 an hour, depending on location, training and experience. 2  ThisOldHouse.com explains what to keep in mind when buying a ceiling fan. 3  Major manufacturers include Hunter, Emerson, Casablanca and Fanimation. 4  Lowe's sells a range of ceiling fans and offers installation services.
As you can see, the calculated cost to operate the fan with lights off is only $0.0029/hr. If you re-calculate it with the lights turned on, the cost increases by about 300% to $0.0091, but is still less than a penny per hour. Even the worst energy guzzling ceiling fans on the market will only cost you less than 2 cents per hour to run. These costs are virtually negligable, which explains why ceiling fans are such a great energy saving alternative to air conditioning.
1 Prices start at $20-$90 for a basic one-or two-speed ceiling fan that works off a pull chain or wall switch, usually with a straightforward design and a standardized (if unexciting) light fixture. 2  Expect to pay $200-$600 for a better-designed ceiling fan in a range of styles from Victorian to tropical to modernistic. 1 Electrical contractors generally charge $30-$70 an hour, depending on location, training and experience. 2  ThisOldHouse.com explains what to keep in mind when buying a ceiling fan. 3  Major manufacturers include Hunter, Emerson, Casablanca and Fanimation. 4  Lowe's sells a range of ceiling fans and offers installation services.
The wattage of the light fixture can have a much greater impact on the cost than the motor. When calculating the cost to operate a fan with the lights on, you must add the wattage of the lights to that of the motor. The range of wattage for a ceiling fan light fixture is anywhere from 13 watts to 190 watts. FYI: Ceiling fans used to have up to 300 watts with a 5-light fixture using 60 watt bulbs, but the EPA began inforcing regulations that now limit the maximum wattage of the light to 190 watts. Even the worst energy guzzling ceiling fans on the market will only cost you less than 2 cents per hour to run. These costs are virtually negligable, which explains why ceiling fans are such a great energy saving alternative to air conditioning.
1 And the steeper the pitch of the blades, the more air they move. 2  A typical blade has a 14-16 degree pitch, but the pitch of high-end models can be 20-22 degrees. 3  Fans at the low end of the price range tend to come with 10-15 year warranties; higher-end models often have 50-year or lifetime guarantees. 1 Electrical contractors generally charge $30-$70 an hour, depending on location, training and experience. 2  ThisOldHouse.com explains what to keep in mind when buying a ceiling fan. 3  Major manufacturers include Hunter, Emerson, Casablanca and Fanimation. 4  Lowe's sells a range of ceiling fans and offers installation services.
So, the most it can cost you to run a ceiling fan without lights is about $126 per year, which is equal to about $10 per month and the least it will cost you is $19 per year, which comes out to just $1 per month...which in either case, is amazingly cheap. Even the worst energy guzzling ceiling fans on the market will only cost you less than 2 cents per hour to run. These costs are virtually negligable, which explains why ceiling fans are such a great energy saving alternative to air conditioning.
$906.05. Get an INSTANT estimate of the cost to Install a Ceiling Fan! Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Ceiling Fan Installation project. For a basic 1 fan project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install a Ceiling Fan ranges between $468.74 - $906.05 per fan. To estimate costs for your project: 1. Set Project Zip Code Enter the Zip Code for the location where labor is hired and materials purchased. 2. 1 General contractor overhead and markup for organizing and supervising the Ceiling Fan Installation. 2  Add 15% to 23% to the total cost above if a general contractor will supervise this project. 3  Sales tax on materials and supplies.