One of the places where you can see Paris’ best art performances is Opera Garnier. Built in 1875, the opera building is the thirteenth building to house the famous Paris Opera since its opening. Opera Garnier. Also known as Palais Garnier, the building was named after the architect who designed it, Charles Garnier. It took 13 years to finish the construction due to 1870 war and an underground lake found under the construction. The underground lake then featured in the famous play by Paul Leroux, Phantom of the Opera
The theatre is also often referred to as the Opera Opéra (Garnier (french·help)) info and historically was known as The opera Opéra de paris or Simply, the opera opéra as it was the primary Home Of the paris opera And Its Associated paris opera, ballet until 1989 When the opera opéra Bastille opened at The. place de la bastille The Amazon Theatre in Manaus (Brazil) built from 1884 to 1896. The overview is very similar, though the decoration is simpler. The Hanoi Opera House in Vietnam is considered to be a typical French colonial architectural monument in Vietnam, and it is also a small-scale replica of the Palais Garnier.
The Palais Garnier, also known as the Opera Garnier, is named after Charles Garnier, the genius who designed this place to house the grand opera of Paris. Built between 1865-1872, it was designed to impress from both outside and inside. 
The Palais Garnier is probably the most famous opera house in the world, a symbol of Paris like Notre Dame Cathedral, the Louvre, or the Sacre Sacré Coeur .. basilica The Amazon Theatre in Manaus (Brazil) built from 1884 to 1896. The overview is very similar, though the decoration is simpler. The Hanoi Opera House in Vietnam is considered to be a typical French colonial architectural monument in Vietnam, and it is also a small-scale replica of the Palais Garnier.
Palais Garnier. This grand building was designed by Charles Garnier for Napoleon III. It opened in 1875 - thirteen years after the start of the construction-as the Opera Opéra. Garnier when The opera de La bastille opened in, 1989 most operas moved to the new opera house and The Opera garnier was Renamed Palais. garnier Opera opéra de La. Bastille this modern opera house opened In july, 14 1989 at the site of the Former bastille fortress to commemorate the fall of The bastille 200 years. Earlier the enormous glass, building designed By uruguayan Architect Carlos, ott was built as a replacement of the 19th Century Opera. opéra garnier
March: Monte-Carlo Opera. Since 1892 the Monte Carlo Opera has occupied the Salle Garnier, named after the architect who also designed the Paris Opera House. It is a magnificent hall with a wonderful past
About the Venue. Home to the world-renowned Paris Opera, Palais Garnier is a stunningly ornate theater, named for its architect, Charles Garnier and completed in 1875. The ecclectic decorative style typical for late 19th century French architecture features an elaborate facade with sculptures and gilt elements. 