Submit. The Nannyberry (Lentago) is generally described as a perennial tree or shrub. This is native to the U.S. (United States) has its most active growth period in the spring and summer. The Nannyberry (Lentago) has green foliage and inconspicuous white flowers, with a smattering of conspicuous red fruits or seeds. The greatest bloom is usually observed in the late spring, with fruit and seed production starting in the summer and continuing until fall. Leaves are not retained year to year. The Nannyberry (Lentago) has a long life span relative to most other plant species and a slow growth rate. At maturity, the typical Nannyberry (Lentago) will reach up to 28 feet high, with a maximum height at 20 years of 28 feet.
Noteworthy Characteristics. Nannyberry is a large, upright, multi-stemmed, suckering, deciduous shrub which typically grows to 10-18' tall with a spread of 6-12', but may also be grown as a small, single trunk tree which may reach a height of 30'. Non-fragrant white flowers in flat-topped cymes (to 4.5 diameter) appear in spring. Remove root suckers to control spread unless naturalization is desired. Nannyberry is a large, upright, multi-stemmed, suckering, deciduous shrub which typically grows to 10-18' tall with a spread of 6-12', but may also be grown as a small, single trunk tree which may reach a height of 30'.
Top 10 unbelievable historical concurrencies. A nannyberry, sweet viburnum, is a deciduous shrub which produces edible berries. It can be grown as a large shrub or a tree and is often used in large numbers as a hedge shrub. This species can reach heights of 20 feet (6 m) and produces lots of fragrant white flowers from late spring through to midsummer. The nannyberry plant is commonly used to attract a variety of wildlife, including insects such as bees and butterflies, which feast on the flowers and nectar. Birds and foraging animals are also attracted to this species; they eat the fruits and seeds, which also helps to disperse the seeds for germination
Nannyberry. Nannyberry, which is grown either as a large shrub or a small tree, is great for naturalizing. This Midwest native is known for its exceptional maroon fall color. Additionally, in September and October, blue-black fruit ripens and often persists into December, attracting more than 35 species of birds. Nannyberry, which is grown either as a large shrub or a small tree, is great for naturalizing. This Midwest native is known for its exceptional maroon fall color
Nannyberry is a shrub or a small tree that grows up to 30ft. It produces small white flowers and small, juicy fruits. Nannyberry has some common names like Sheepberry and Sweet Viburnum. It is a self pollinating pant and is slightly deer resistant. 1 Nannyberry is often eaten raw and sometimes crushed or sliced. 2  When sugar is added to the pulp, the natural juices come out and the crushed berries then produce a sauce that can be had with cakes and ice-cream. 3  Nannyberry extracts are used as an ingredient in pies, cakes, sorbets and other desserts.
In the landscape, nannyberry is grown as a large, suckering shrub or a single-or multi-stemmed small tree. It is a durable and easy-to-grow plant throughout Minnesota because of its hardiness, its ability to grow in light or shade, and its adaptability across a wide range of soil textures, moisture levels, and soil pH. Nannyberry in the landscape. Nannyberry is Minnesota's largest native viburnum. In prairie habitats, it forms large thickets. As an understory plant in forested areas, nannyberry rarely forms thickets and is a smaller shrub with only a few stems.