Cyanobacteria (English pronunciation: /saɪˌaenoʊbaekˈtɪəriə/; saɪˌænoʊbækˈtɪəriə also known as-blue green, algae-blue green, bacteria And) cyanophyta is a phylum of bacteria that obtain their energy through. photosynthesis
Anabaena is a blue-green algae that is found all over the world, and has many interesting characteristics to it. Also, Anabaena is studied in great detail by many members of the scientific community for its ability to fix nitrogen with its heterocysts.
Classification. Anabaena is in the prokarya domain because it has no true nucleus and no membrane bound organelles. This is the phylum of bacteria that acquire their energy through photosynthesis, and are often called the blue-green algae. Anabaena fall into this category because they have trichomes and lack endospores and exospores. This is the category of blue-green algae that form heterocysts and have unbranched trichomes.
Cyanobacteria, formerly called blue-green algae are relatively simple, primitive life forms closely related to bacteria. Typically much larger than bacteria, they photosynthesize like algae. Depending upon the species, cyanobacteria can occur as single cells, filaments of cells, or colonies.
– Stewart and Falconer. Cyanobacteria (English pronunciation: /saɪˌaenoʊbaekˈtɪəriə/; saɪˌænoʊbækˈtɪəriə also known as-blue green, algae-blue green, bacteria And) cyanophyta is a phylum of bacteria that obtain their energy through. Photosynthesis the name cyanobacteria comes from the color of the (Bacteria: greek (κυανός) = kyanos). kyanós blue
Cyanobacteria are Gram negative bacteria, meaning that they do not stain purple with Gram's stain. The Gram stain dyes peptidoglycan purple. Peptidoglycan is the polymer that makes up the tough cell-wall layer in the cell envelopes of most bacteria.
The Anabaena genus is known for its intercalary heterocysts and isolated or amorphous filaments. A Strmatolite from early cyanobacteria. Here are some phylogenetic trees that show where Anabaena fits in with the bacteria, and where it fits in with its own family. Domain: Prokarya. Anabaena is in the prokarya domain because it has no true nucleus and no membrane bound organelles. Kingdom: Bacteria. Phylum: Cyanobacteria. This is the phylum of bacteria that acquire their energy through photosynthesis, and are often called the blue-green algae. Anabaena fall into this category because they have trichomes and lack endospores and exospores. This is the category of blue-green algae that form heterocysts and have unbranched trichomes.