The name rotifer is derived from the Latin word meaning wheel-bearer; this makes reference to the crown of cilia around the mouth of the rotifer. The rapid movement of the cilia in some species makes them appear to whirl like a wheel. Most species of rotifers are about 200 to 500 micrometers long. However a few species, such as Rotaria neptunia may be longer than a millimeter (Orstan 1999). Rotifers are thus multicellular creatures who make make their living at the scale of unicellular protists.
Bdelloidea /ˈdɛlɔɪdiə/ (Greek βδελλα, bdella, leech-like) is a class of rotifers found in freshwater habitats all over the world. There are over 450 described species of bdelloid rotifers (or 'bdelloids'), distinguished from each other mainly on the basis of morphology. The main characteristics that distinguish bdelloids from related groups of rotifers are exclusively parthenogenetic reproduction and the ability to survive in dry, harsh environments by entering a state of desiccation-induced dormancy (anhydrobiosis) at any life stage.
Rotifers: the wheel animalcules. Rotifers are microscopic aquatic animals of the phylum Rotifera. Rotifers can be found in many freshwater environments and in moist soil, where they inhabit the thin films of water that are formed around soil particles. Most species of rotifers are about 200 to 500 micrometers long. However a few species, such as Rotaria neptunia may be longer than a millimeter (Orstan 1999). Rotifers are thus multicellular creatures who make make their living at the scale of unicellular protists.
Because of their very small size and mostly soft bodies, rotifers are not commonly favored for fossilization. Their only hard parts, their jaws, might be preserved in the fossil record, but their tiny size makes detection a serious challenge (Örstan, örstan). 1999 Most species of rotifers are about 200 to 500 micrometers long. However a few species, such as Rotaria neptunia may be longer than a millimeter (Orstan 1999). Rotifers are thus multicellular creatures who make make their living at the scale of unicellular protists.
The body of a rotifer is divided into a head, trunk, and foot, and is typically somewhat cylindrical. There is a well-developed cuticle, which may be thick and rigid, giving the animal a box-like shape, or flexible, giving the animal a worm-like shape; such rotifers are respectively called loricate and illoricate. Rev. John Harris first described the rotifers (in particular a bdelloid rotifer) in 1696 as an animal like a large maggot which could contract itself into a spherical figure and then stretch itself out again; the end of its tail appeared with a forceps like that of an earwig .
Rotifers, of which there are about 1,500 known species, are widely distributed in freshwater and marine habitats; they also live in the soil, in mosses, and associated with lichens on rocks and trees. A few are parasitic. Most feed on bacteria, algal cells, small protozoans, or organic detritus. 
Collotheca (genus). Y. Tsukii. Rotifers are a group of microscopic animals that live just about anywhere there is fresh water, including lakes, ponds, streams, puddles, ditches, wet shorelines (especially sand), and even on wet mosses. On this page, we will focus on the Collotheca genus of rotifers. The foot usually has two toes at the bottom. The head of a rotifer has a large, cup-shaped mouth, surrounded by cilia. Cilia are tiny hair-like things which wave back and forth. The rotifer's cilia are used to trap food and to move around through the water.
Rotifers are small (50-1000 µm) zooplankton that occur in freshwater, brackish, and marine environments. Rotifers feed on microalgae and are consumed by a wide variety of fish, shellfish, corals, and other organisms. 
About 25 species are colonial (e.g., Sinantherina semibullata), either sessile or planktonic. Rotifers are an important part of the freshwater zooplankton, being a major foodsource and with many species also contributing to the decomposition of soil organic matter. Most species of the rotifers are cosmopolitan, but there are also some endemic species, like Cephalodella vittata to Lake Baikal. Recent barcoding evidence, however, suggests that some 'cosmopolitan' species, such as Brachionus plicatilis, B. calyciflorus, Lecane bulla, among others, are actually species complexes. Rev. John Harris first described the rotifers (in particular a bdelloid rotifer) in 1696 as an animal like a large maggot which could contract itself into a spherical figure and then stretch itself out again; the end of its tail appeared with a forceps like that of an earwig .
Rotifers are small, mostly freshwater animals, and are amongst the smallest members of the Metazoa -- that group of multicellular animals which includes humans, and whose bodies are organized into systems of organs. Bdelloid rotifers are the commonest variety found in fresh water. The term describes their habit of moving about by extending the body and attatching the head, then catching up with the foot and again extending the body -- bdelloid, like a leech.