The Second Amendment to the United States Constitution is the section of the Bill of Rights that enshrines American's right to keep and bear arms, or weapons. CNN Legal Analyst Jeffrey Toobin examined this text in the wake of the latest mass shooting in the United States. What the 2nd Amendment says is that as there is a need for a militia, people need to and have the right to own guns so that they can be part of that militia. When the US govt started creating anarmy, navy, police departments, etc., these groups took over the role of the militia.
The Second Amendment reads: A well regulated militia, being necessary to the security of a free State, the right of the people to keep and bear Arms shall not be infringed.. Considerations. While the Second Amendment protects the right to bear arms, the National Firearms Act and Gun Control Act restrict types of guns, gun sales and who may carry guns.
A Guide to the Second Amendment. The Second Amendment, or Amendment II, of the United States Constitution is the amendment and the section of the Bill of Rights that says that people have the right to keep and bear arms. The Second Amendment was adopted into the United States Constitution on December 15, 1791, along with the other amendments in the Bill of Rights. The Second Amendment and the Bill of Rights were introduced into the United States Constitution by James Madison.
The Second Amendment is part of the Bill of Rights added to the U.S. Constitution in 1791. It covers the right to bear arms. Interpretations of its meaning differ, setting the stage for court battles over gun laws. Considerations. While the Second Amendment protects the right to bear arms, the National Firearms Act and Gun Control Act restrict types of guns, gun sales and who may carry guns.
History. James Madison introduced the Bill of Rights in the first U.S. Congress in 1789. Enacted in 1791 with nine other amendments, the Second Amendment and the other amendments in the Bill of Rights set out basic constitutional rights. Considerations. While the Second Amendment protects the right to bear arms, the National Firearms Act and Gun Control Act restrict types of guns, gun sales and who may carry guns.
The Second Amendment (Amendment II) to the United States Constitution protects the right of the people to keep and bear arms and was adopted on December 15, 1791, as part of the first ten amendments contained in the Bill of Rights. Heller and McDonald supported the individual rights model, under which the Second Amendment protects the right to keep and bear arms much as the First Amendment protects the right to free speech. Under this model, the militia is composed of members who supply their own arms and ammunition.
Bear arms: When the Second Amendment was written, arms meant weapons. The word arms did not necessarily only mean guns, but it definitely included guns. The Second Amendment did not specifically explain what categories or types of arms nor did it list what weapons were considered arms. The Second Amendment was adopted into the United States Constitution on December 15, 1791, along with the other amendments in the Bill of Rights. The Second Amendment and the Bill of Rights were introduced into the United States Constitution by James Madison.
Executive DirectorNational Council for a Responsible Firearms Policy. A well-regulated militia being necessary to the security of a free state, the right of the people to keep and bear arms shall not be infringed.. - Second Amendment, the U.S. Constitution. The right of the people to keep and bear arms is part of the Bill of Rights. It stands alongside the First Amendment's rights of freedom of speech, press, religion, and assembly.