As a new Stamps.com customer you will receive a FREE 5 lb. Digital Scale. The scale is a $50 value and is yours to keep with no additional obligation. Just pay for shipping and handling. You will also receive coupons for $20 in postage redeemable after your trial period ($10 per month for two months). Total value of your offer is $80! The best way to find out if Stamps.com is right for you is to try it. That’s why we offer new customers a 4 Week Trial. That’s 4 full weeks to take Stamps.com for a spin.
iCIMS Applicant Tracking System Pricing. Pricing model: Subscription. Our pricing is based on certain available packages as well as the complexity and robustness of the final system, which is scaled to meet your specific needs. 1 Industry: Any industry in which companies intend to capitalize on the benefits of a cloud-based talent acquisition and management software, though most of iCIMS’ clients fall under the retail, healthcare, energy, manufacturing, and small business categories.
Comments: iCIMS is, by far, the best applicant tracking system that I have worked with. It's easy for both the candidate and the recruiter. We are able to constantly be tracking where candidates are in the process. It's a great tool that helps us communicate with candidates and hiring managers all in one system. Comments: We have been completely satisfied with the iCIMS ATS. As a Federal Contractor the required reporting applicant logs are excellent. Ease of use by all hiring managers and administrators in tremendous. The customer service support from implementation to daily use is 2nd to none.
iCIMS holds the belief that a product is only as strong as the service behind it and, as a result, is committed to the ongoing pursuit of 100% customer satisfaction. iCIMS’ industry-leading customer support teams serve clients 24 hours a day, 5 days a week. 1 Industry: Any industry in which companies intend to capitalize on the benefits of a cloud-based talent acquisition and management software, though most of iCIMS’ clients fall under the retail, healthcare, energy, manufacturing, and small business categories.
With our Solar PPA, you pay for your solar power by the month, just like your current utility bill, only lower. You'll secure your solar electricity rates for up to 20 years, protecting you from future energy price spikes. And, with multiple payment options, you control how and when you pay for your electricity. How our PPA works: 1  We'll install a system on your roof for $0 down and you pay us for the power it produces at, low, secure rates that are usually less than what you’re paying your utility now. 2  SolarCity retains ownership of the system, so we'll maintain, insure and service it for the life of the agreement.
Free consultation. Schedule a free consultation with one of our knowledgeable consultants to learn about the price of a solar panel system for your home and how much you can save every month on your electricity bills. The initial call will be about 10 minutes. For a 3-bedroom home with a current electricity bill of $200 per month, we might recommend a medium sized 4 kW solar system. Please note solar panel system pricing varies quite a bit based on system size, design and local rebates, so keep reading below to get a custom quote for your home.
iCIMS NOW pricing starts at just $299 per month. If you need additional users or hiring managers, we're happy to accommodate you. Use the calculator to estimate the cost of your solution. 
iCIMS Applicant Tracking System Overview. iCIMS is a leading provider of Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) business platforms for the mid-market. We are dedicated to solving corporate business issues through the implementation of easy-to-use web-based software solutions. 1 Industry: Any industry in which companies intend to capitalize on the benefits of a cloud-based talent acquisition and management software, though most of iCIMS’ clients fall under the retail, healthcare, energy, manufacturing, and small business categories.
I dislike the integration of iCIMS to our ADP HR and Payroll Systems. We currently use iCIMS for Recruiting and Onboarding and certain fields cannot be imported from iCIMS to ADP. This is frustrating as the fields that do not flow over have to be manually entered. This software doesn't seem to be the ideal choice for a recruitment consultancy. But, it's more for internal recruitment teams. Unfortunately, I fit into the former! The software doesn't work very well on an iPad/tablet, and is almost possible to use on a phone.
1 It’s a low-interest loan that allows you to finance the cost of your solar power system over 30 years with payments based on the system’s production. 2  Your monthly electricity bills could be lower, and over time, you’ll be building equity in your system. How our PPA works: 1  We'll install a system on your roof for $0 down and you pay us for the power it produces at, low, secure rates that are usually less than what you’re paying your utility now. 2  SolarCity retains ownership of the system, so we'll maintain, insure and service it for the life of the agreement.