1 Introduction. Swift has taken the Apple developer world by storm since its announcement at WWDC 2014. With Swift being such a new language, there are no real experts yet, and design patterns are still being discovered and written about as people learn what it excels at. 
Playgrounds make writing Swift code incredibly simple and fun. Type a line of code and the result appears immediately. You can then Quick Look the result from the side of your code, or pin that result directly below. The result view can display graphics, lists of results, or graphs of a value over time. The Swift compiler is also faster, even while adding new Fix-it suggestions such as where you can use let instead of var. Comments can include Markdown syntax to add rich text and embedded images that display in Xcode’s Quick Help.
Swift is a multi-paradigm, compiled programming language created by Apple Inc. for iOS, OS X, and watchOS development. Swift is designed to work with Apple's Cocoa and Cocoa Touch frameworks and the large body of existing Objective-C code written for Apple products. Swift is intended to be more resilient to erroneous code (safer) than Objective-C, and also more concise. The Swift Programming Language, a free 500-page manual, was also released at WWDC, and is available on the iBooks Store. Swift reached the 1.0 milestone on September 9, 2014, with the Gold Master of Xcode 6.0 for iOS.
Swift. Swift is a powerful and intuitive programming language for iOS, OS X, and watchOS. Writing Swift code is interactive and fun, the syntax is concise yet expressive, and apps run lightning-fast. The Swift compiler is also faster, even while adding new Fix-it suggestions such as where you can use let instead of var. Comments can include Markdown syntax to add rich text and embedded images that display in Xcode’s Quick Help.
A modern programming language that is safe, fast, and interactive. Swift is a powerful and intuitive programming language for iOS, OS X, and watchOS. Writing Swift code is interactive and fun, the syntax is concise yet expressive, and apps run lightning-fast. The Swift compiler is also faster, even while adding new Fix-it suggestions such as where you can use let instead of var. Comments can include Markdown syntax to add rich text and embedded images that display in Xcode’s Quick Help.
About Swift. Swift is a new programming language for iOS, OS X, and watchOS apps that builds on the best of C and Objective-C, without the constraints of C compatibility. Swift adopts safe programming patterns and adds modern features to make programming easier, more flexible, and more fun. All this makes Swift a sound future investment for developers and for Apple. Swift is a fantastic way to write iOS, OS X, and watchOS apps, and will continue to evolve with new features and capabilities. Our goals for Swift are ambitious.
Swift was introduced at Apple's 2014 Worldwide Developers Conference (WWDC), It underwent an upgrade to version 1.2 during 2014, and a more major upgrade to Swift 2 at WWDC 2015. Initially a proprietary language, it was announced that Swift 2 would become open source later that year, supporting iOS, OS X, and Linux. The Swift Programming Language, a free 500-page manual, was also released at WWDC, and is available on the iBooks Store. Swift reached the 1.0 milestone on September 9, 2014, with the Gold Master of Xcode 6.0 for iOS.
IDG News Service. With plans to slowly retire the long-used Objective-C, Apple has introduced a new programming language, called Swift, for designing apps and applications to run on Apple iOS devices and Apple Macintosh computers. Swift may be easier to learn and work with, but it will still take developers time to switch from Objective-C, Hilwa speculated. Apple is working to make the transition easier, though. Swift code can be run on the same run-time as Objective-C, and uses the same memory management module.