Wildlife-Friendly. The devil's walking stick, (Aralia spinosa), also known as Hercules' club, prickly ash or the Angelica tree, is a medium-sized tree or shrub with small orange spikes on its furrowed bark and branches. Its large, pinnate leaves, which may be up to 4 feet long, are also covered covered in small spines. Possessing a canopy as wide as the tree is tall -- up to 65 feet -- it is distinctive for its profuse pink blossoms in fall and winter, and also for the spikes on its trunk and branches. The bark of the silk floss tree is smooth when young, but it develops sharp spikes as it matur
1. Place plastic cap provided on top of spike. 2. Drive spike into ground around tree or shrub following the dripline. 3. Spikes should be at least 3 feet apart. For small trees and shrubs with drip line closer than 2 feet, insert spikes 2 feet away from center of shrub or tree trunk. 4. Remove plastic cap and save for future use. 5.
Several species of trees grow spikes, more accurately known as spines or thorns. These can appear on different parts of the tree, depending on the variety, and are believed to have served as a defense against now-extinct giant mammals according to Bucknell University Arboretum. Silk Floss Tree. The silk floss tree (Chorisia speciosa) , found in the tropical forests of Brazil, Argentina, Paraguay and Puerto Rico, bears thick spikes along the entire length of its bulging trunk. The tree has prickly horizontal branches that flower into pink and white
Best Answer: It's really hard to tell what kind is your Orange tree is at this point. For the spikes, it's usually normal for oranges to have those no matter what kind they maybe. Especially that you pruned it so drastically short like that. Young trees or branches sport those spikes. Upon looking at the pictures I have a good feeling that it might be the bigger variety of oranges. 
Today, most varieties are either thornless or have thin, blunt, flexible thorns found only at the base of the leaves. Oranges that are bitter and not commonly consumed, however, may have large thorns. The hardy or trifoliate orange tree, for example, features sharp, 2-inch long thorns and sour fruit. The thorns are the tree's way of protecting itself against hungry animals that want to nibble on the leaves and fruit of the tree, which can heavily damage or even destroy a young tree. Over time, as the tree grows older and stronger -- and better able to handle animal damage -- the thorns usually diminish
Definition of Flowering Spikes. Flowering spikes are a type of inflorescence, or group of flowers. Plants of this type feature elongated stalks, or spikes, that are covered partially or entirely with stemless flowers. Each flower develops on the central stalk to which it is attached. Overview. Plants can lend a sense of life, color and interest to any garden setting. This is especially true of plants with flowers and spikes. The flowers of such plants come in a variety of vibrant hues and shapes, while the spikes are often dynamic, eye-catching, and add height and dimension to the garden.
Grapefruit. Grapefruit (Citrus X paradisi) trees, like other citrus trees, have thorns, but they are short and flexible, and they are only found on the twigs. Marsh is the most popular variety grown in the United States and is desirable for its sweet, juicy flesh and small number of seeds. The thorns are the tree's way of protecting itself against hungry animals that want to nibble on the leaves and fruit of the tree, which can heavily damage or even destroy a young tree. Over time, as the tree grows older and stronger -- and better able to handle animal damage -- the thorns usually diminish