They just mean that some of the planets are in the same general region of the sky. And this type of alignment almost never happens to all the planets, but instead happens to two or three planets at one time. The type of planetary alignment shown in this artistic rendering never happens. The planets in our solar system never line up in one perfectly straight line like they show in the movies. If you look at a two-dimensional plot of the planets and their orbits on a piece of paper you may be lead to believe that all the planets will circle around to the same line eventually.
Nothing special. All the planets align about every few thousand years, and have for the last few billion or so. About 20 years ago, there was a big panic that the planets we … re going to align, and that this was going to cause massive earthquakes. They aligned, and NOTHING happened. To be honest, the gravitational forces of the other planets is so tiny, they couldn't disturb a butterfly. Actually the planets align every 50 thousand years and when they do we don't know what happens but its not good.
Nothing special. All the planets align about every few thousand years, and have for the last few billion or so. About 20 years ago, there was a big panic that the planets were going to align, and that this was going to cause massive earthquakes. They aligned, and NOTHING happened. To be honest, the gravitational forces of the other planets is so tiny, they couldn't disturb a butterfly. Actually the planets align every 50 thousand years and when they do we don't know what happens but its not good. You know how in the past we have seen things that for some odd reason just got whipped out...
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: First of all, all the planets never can align. This has never happened, not even once, in the entire history of the Solar System. Secondly, when two or more planets approximately align with the Sun, as they do fairly often, absolutely nothing happens. The Moon is 238,000 miles away. The closest planet, Venus, is 23,000,000 miles away, on average. The planet with the strongest gravity, Jupiter, is 365,000,000 miles away at its closest. Not only this, but due to orbital eccentricities and ecliptic inclinations, it is literally impossible for all the planets to align.
· just now. Report Abuse. 1) Because of the angles of their orbits, all 8 planets can never align. 2) Even getting all 8 within a few degrees of each other happens so rarely that it will probably never happen once in the entire 10 billion year history of the Solar System. Best Answer: If all the planets were to align perfectly with each one as close as possible to the Earth, their gravity would raise the ocean tides by just one twenty-fifth of one millimeter. Source(s): http://home.att.net/~thehessians/may5200... bikenbeer2000 · 6 years ago.
One calculation of alignments within around thirty degrees (about as close as they can get) shows that the last such alignment was in 561 BC, and the next will be in 2854. The eight planets plus Pluto are somewhat aligned every 500 years, and are grouped within 30 degrees every one to three alignments. 
That is, they will all be aligned to a certain degree of error. Three planets alignments are not that rare, they happen every two years.The last time 4 planets aligned was in 2002 and the next occurrence will happen in 2040. On February 4th, 1962, the nearest 6 planets, the sun, the moon all aligned within 17 degrees of each other. Watch this video for a more detailed explanation: However, being aligned they don't mean that the planets will actually all lie on a straight line at some instant of time. But calculation of alignments according to a quick internet search depicts, within around thirty degrees shows that the last such alignment was in 561 BC, and the next will be in 2854.
The other flaw here is that even the alignment in 2000 was only partial. A true alignment can never happen in our solar system because all of the planets orbit at varying angles. This means that while they may line up on one axis, they will be off on another. 