STC is the Acronym for subject to contract, it is basically an indicator to state that the property sale has been agreed and is awaiting surveyor/mortgage confirmation … . The estate agent will not accept additional offers once a property has been STC'd. Hope this helps Regards Otto C/o Whitehaven Cumbria. 1 An inexpensive DVD stand doesn't have to lack the feat…. 2  How to Choose a Classic Kitchenaid Stand Mixer Picking a classic Kitchenaid Stand Mixer is very important, especially to chefs and bakers who have to frequently mix many ingredients together.
The provisions in chapter twelve are based on. (STC), which is a rating system used to rate the construction components of a room, such as walls and doors, but not the finished room itself. Keeping conversations confidential by Chanaud, Robert C. / Security Management.
Sound Transmission Class (or STC) is an integer rating of how well a building partition attenuates airborne sound. In the USA, it is widely used to rate interior partitions, ceilings/floors, doors, windows and exterior wall configurations (see ASTM International Classification E413 and E90). Rating methodology [edit]. The ASTM test methods have changed every few years. Thus, STC results posted before 1999 may not produce the same results today, and the differences become wider as one goes further back in time–the differences in the applicable test methods between the 1970s and today being quite significant.
Report Abuse. OK so it means literally subject to contract - this means that another party has submitted a contract and the owners are presently reviewing the contract and waiting for all of the terms stated to come to be-i.e. financing or appraisal amount etc. Subject to contract. i.e. someone has put in an acceptable offer but nothing has been signed yet, perhaps because the buyer has not got their finances sorted, or not sold their own property yet. The buyer may be waiting for the results of their survey. jaycee · 9 years ago.
The STC number is derived from sound attenuation values tested at sixteen standard frequencies from 125 Hz to 4000 Hz. These Transmission Loss values are then plotted on a sound pressure level graph and the resulting curve is compared to a standard reference contour. Rating methodology [edit]. The ASTM test methods have changed every few years. Thus, STC results posted before 1999 may not produce the same results today, and the differences become wider as one goes further back in time–the differences in the applicable test methods between the 1970s and today being quite significant.
Report Abuse. Subject to contract. i.e. someone has put in an acceptable offer but nothing has been signed yet, perhaps because the buyer has not got their finances sorted, or not sold their own property yet. The buyer may be waiting for the results of their survey. jaycee · 9 years ago.
The World's most comprehensive professionally edited abbreviations and acronyms database. All trademarks/service marks referenced on this site are properties of their respective owners. The Acronym Finder is ©1988-2015, Acronym Finder, All Rights Reserved. 
14, 2014 /PRNewswire/ -- Avionica announced the FAA issuance of a Supplemental Type Certificate (STC) for satLINK MAX, the industry's first Iridium based ATS SATCOM for air transport aircraft. This Supplemental Type Certificate allows the SSJ100 landing in complicated weather conditions when runway visibility does not exceed 175m, including landing with up to 10 m/s flank wind, when the airport has the respective certification and crews are certified to perform flights under CAT IIIa minimum.
OK so it means literally subject to contract - this means that another party has submitted a contract and the owners are presently reviewing the contract and waiting for all of the terms stated to come to be-i.e. Subject to contract. i.e. someone has put in an acceptable offer but nothing has been signed yet, perhaps because the buyer has not got their finances sorted, or not sold their own property yet. The buyer may be waiting for the results of their survey. jaycee · 9 years ago.