The mitotic spindle is the macromolecular machine that segregates chromosomes to two daughter cells during mitosis. The major structural elements of the spindle are microtubule polymers, whose intrinsic polarity and dynamic properties are critical for bipolar spindle organization and function. 
Magazine article from: Genetics ...evolutionarily conserved spindle checkpoint is a...kinetochores and mitotic spindles and the tension...or tension, the spindle checkpoint mediates...chromosomes to the mitotic spindle during metaphase...forces exerted by the spindle are opposed by cohesin...al. 2004).itotic spindle The spindle-shaped system of microtubules that, during cell division, traverses the nuclear region of eukaryotic cells.
spindle fibers. Spindle fibers form a protein structure that divides the genetic material in a cell. The spindle is necessary to equally divide the chromosomes in a parental cell into two daughter cells during both types of nuclear division: mitosis and meiosis. During mitosis, the spindle fibers are called the mitotic spindle. Meanwhile, during meiosis, the spindle fibers are referred to as the meiotic spindle. Long protein fibers called microtubules extend from the centrioles in all possible directions, forming what is called a spindle. Some of the microtubules attach the poles to the chromosomes by connecting to protein complexes called kinetochores.
mitosis. MITOSIS. A type of cell division of somatic cells in which each daughter cell contains the same number of chromosomes as the parent cell. Mitosis is the process by which the body grows and dead somatic cells are replaced. Mitosis is a continuous process divided into four phases: prophase, metaphase, anaphase, and telophase.
Lesson Summary. The mitotic spindle is a structure composed of microtubules which segregates chromosomes into the daughter cells during mitosis. A microtubule is a rope-like component of the cytoskeleton. The centrosome is an organelle that serves as a microtubule organizing center during cell division. The centrosome is an organelle that serves as a microtubule organizing center during division. It's duplicated during S phase, and the two copies move to opposite sides of the cell. Now, once the mitotic spindle has been assembled, the centrosomes are also referred to as spindle poles.
mitotic spindle The spindle-shaped system of microtubules that, during cell division, traverses the nuclear region of eukaryotic cells. The chromosomes become attached to it and it separates them into two sets, each of which can be enclosed in the envelope of a separate daughter nucleus. Cite this article.
spindle. 1. a pin tapered at one end or both ends, or something with this shape. 2. the thin, tapering figure occurring during metaphase of cell division, composed of microtubules radiating from the centrioles and connecting to the chromosomes at their centromeres. Called also mitotic spindle.n. The fusiform figure characteristic of a dividing cell, consisting of microtubules, some of which become attached to each chromosome at its centromere and provide the mechanism for chromosomal movement. Also called nuclear spindle.. a pin tapered at one end or both ends, or something with this shape. 2. the thin, tapering figure occurring during metaphase of cell division, composed of microtubules radiating from the centrioles and connecting to the chromosomes at their centromeres. Called also mitotic spindle. 3. muscle spindle.
Biology Glossary search by EverythingBio.com. microtubule-based structure present during mitosis to which chromosomes attach and are separated toward opposite poles of the dividing cell. 
Mitotic spindle. Definition. noun. The collective term for all the spindle fibers that form during mitosis. It is a spindle-shaped structure that develops outside the nucleus during mitosis. The fibers that constitute the mitotic spindle pull the chromatids apart toward opposite poles. Supplement. Please contribute to this project, if you have more information about this term feel free to edit this page. This page was last modified on 31 May 2009, at 09:30.This page has been accessed 96,291 times. What links here | Related changes | Permanent link.