LIGO-India [edit]. LIGO-India is a proposed collaborative project between the LIGO Laboratory and the Indian Initiative in Gravitational Observations (IndIGO) to create a world-class gravitational-wave detector in India. It is sponsored by the National Science Foundation (NSF). At the cost of $620 million, it is the largest and most ambitious project ever funded by the NSF. Initial LIGO operations between 2002 and 2010 did not detect any gravitational waves.
Please try again later. The Laser Interferometer Gravitational Wave Observatory is spearheading the completely new field of gravitational wave astronomy and opening a whole new window on the universe. 
On September 18, 2015, after a 5-year redesign and rebuild, the twin LIGO 'advanced' interferometers officially began their search for gravitational waves. Welcome to LIGO Hanford • August 5, 2015 LIGO Hanford is located in the Columbia Basin region of Central Washington near the Tri-Cities. Home to one of LIGO's two gravitational wave detectors, our facility operates in tandem with LIGO Livingston to listen for the faint whispers of gravitational waves from the most energetic events in the universe. LIGO Hanford hosts site tours, school field trips and special public event
LIGO's mission is to directly observe gravitational waves of cosmic origin. These waves were first predicted by Einstein's general theory of relativity in 1916, when the technology necessary for their detection did not yet exist. It is sponsored by the National Science Foundation (NSF). At the cost of $620 million, it is the largest and most ambitious project ever funded by the NSF. Initial LIGO operations between 2002 and 2010 did not detect any gravitational waves.
Cofounded in 1992 by Kip Thorne and Ronald Drever of Caltech and Rainer Weiss of MIT, LIGO is a joint project between scientists at MIT, Caltech, and many other colleges and universities. It is sponsored by the National Science Foundation (NSF). At the cost of $620 million, it is the largest and most ambitious project ever funded by the NSF. Initial LIGO operations between 2002 and 2010 did not detect any gravitational waves. This was followed by a multi-year shutdown while the detectors were replaced by much improved Advanced LIGO version
On September 18, 2015, after a 5-year redesign and rebuild, the twin LIGO 'advanced' interferometers officially began their search for gravitational waves. Einstein's Messengers is an award-winning documentary on LIGO, NSF's Laser Interferometer Gravitational Wave Observatory. The video examines how LIGO is spearheading the new field of gravitational wave astronomy and opening a whole new window on the universe. Credit: National Science Foundation
The U.S. effort, sponsored by the National Science Foun dation, is called LIGO, which stands for Laser Interferometer Gravitational-Wave Observatory. Here are but some of the goals that the U.S. instruments are being designed to accomplish: 1  Prove by direct measurement that gravitational waves exist. 
Since 1945, A. Tung Chingco Trading, Inc. has been the exclusive distributor of Ligo products in the Philippines. Mr. Gregory Tung, Sr., known as the founder of A. Tung Chingco Trading made these products known in the Philippines. A fruitful and promising association between A. Tung Chingco and Liberty Gold Fruit Co., Inc. of California, U.S.A. tie-up flourished and made Ligo a market leader in the canned fish industry.