Share this with others: Anemia, which is defined as a decreased number of red blood cells or hemoglobin, can lower the amount of oxygen reaching the brain. Any lowering of oxygen reaching the brain can cause a swelling of the arteries of the area, causing headaches. Get Free Email Updates! 
How severe or frequent your symptoms are relates to how severe your anemia is. People who have mild anemia, from a mild iron deficiency, for instance, may not have any symptoms at all, while people with severe anemia can have much more noticeable and longer lasting symptoms. Anemia symptoms include: 1  Fatigue. 2  This is by far the most common anemia symptom. 3  You may feel very tired or weak and unable to summon the energy for most daily activities. 4  Dizziness. 5  Dizziness is most likely to occur when you stand up from a sitting or resting position. 6  Shortness of breath.
Anemia is a disease where your red blood cell count is lower than normal or it does not have enough haemoglobin (a protein that carries oxygen). It has many causes, but the bottom line is that the cells in all parts of the body are delivered with a small amount of oxygen and nutrients. 
There are many different types of anemia with many different causes. A handful of symptoms are shared by nearly all types of anemia, whether you have iron deficiency anemia or Fanconi anemia. And each type of anemia shares a basic end effect: Your body does not have enough oxygen-bearing red blood cells for its needs. Anemia symptoms include: 1  Fatigue. 2  This is by far the most common anemia symptom. 3  You may feel very tired or weak and unable to summon the energy for most daily activities. 4  Dizziness. 5  Dizziness is most likely to occur when you stand up from a sitting or resting position. 6  Shortness of breath.
Symptoms. Mild iron deficiency anemia may not cause noticeable symptoms. If anemia is severe, symptoms may include: 1  Weakness, fatigue, or lack of stamina. 2  Shortness of breath during exercise. 3  Headache. 4  Trouble concentrating. 5  Irritability. 6  Dizziness. 7  Pale skin. 8  Craving substances that are not food (pica). 
1 This type of anemia is due to a lack of iron in your diet or chronic blood loss. 2  Iron deficiency anemia can be identified through symptoms that include unusual cravings (such as ice or dirt), brittle nails, a swollen or sore tongue, tiny cracks on the sides of your mouth, and frequent infections. 3  Pernicious anemia. Anemia symptoms include: 1  Fatigue. 2  This is by far the most common anemia symptom. 3  You may feel very tired or weak and unable to summon the energy for most daily activities. 4  Dizziness. 5  Dizziness is most likely to occur when you stand up from a sitting or resting position. 6  Shortness of breath.
Guest. Anemia is decreased number of red blood cells or hemoglobin. This condition results in lower amount of oxygen reaching tissues, so the brain as well is hypooxigenated. Any lowering of oxygen level in the brain can cause a swelling of the arteries of the area, causing headaches. Anemia can DEFINITELY cause headaches. I missed two days of slo fe pills and had a major, sickening headache. Felt better within 2 hours of taking the pill. Iron is absorbed better by the body in the presence of vitamin C, so I always take my pill with some sort of juice that has 100% RDA of vitamin C or with Emergen-C.
The two most common symptoms of anemia are fatigue and weakness. Anemia is a condition wherein you have a lower than normal number of red blood cells in your blood or the red blood cells in your blood don’t have enough hemoglobin. Hemoglobin is a protein, which gives your blood that red color. 
A lack of hemoglobin in the blood causes fatigue. Hemoglobin is an iron-rich protein in red blood cells. It helps carry oxygen to the body. A low red blood cell count also can cause shortness of breath; dizziness, especially when standing up; headaches; coldness in your hands or feet; pale skin; and chest pain. 