Examples of thermal radiation include the visible light and infrared light emitted by an incandescent light bulb, the infrared radiation emitted by animals and detectable with an infrared camera, and the cosmic microwave background radiation. Thermal radiation is the emission of electromagnetic waves from all matter that has a temperature greater than absolute zero. It represents a conversion of thermal energy into electromagnetic energy. Thermal energy consists of the kinetic energy of random movements of atoms and molecules in matter
radiation in the infrared part of the spectrum. radiation that is felt as heat. radiation that depends only on the emitting object's temperature. radiation produced by a hot object. radiation in the form of emission lines from an object. Add your answer. Source. Submit Cancel
The emissivity of the surface of a material is its effectiveness in emitting energy as thermal radiation. Thermal radiation is light, but for objects near room temperature this light is infrared and isn't visible to human eyes. The thermal radiation from very hot objects (see photograph) is easily visible to the eye. Quantitatively, emissivity is the ratio of the thermal radiation from a surface to the radiation from an ideal black surface at the same temperature as given by the Stefan–Boltzmann law.
Definition of THERMAL RADIATION. : quantized electromagnetic radiation excited by thermal agitation of molecules or atoms and having a range including infrared, visible light, and ultraviolet. ADVERTISEMENT. 
All matter with a temperature greater than absolute zero emits thermal radiation. When the temperature of the body is greater than absolute zero, interatomic collisions cause the kinetic energy of the atoms or molecules to change. Thermal radiation is the emission of electromagnetic waves from all matter that has a temperature greater than absolute zero. It represents a conversion of thermal energy into electromagnetic energy. Thermal energy consists of the kinetic energy of random movements of atoms and molecules in matter
Sunlight is part of thermal radiation generated by the hot plasma of the Sun. The Earth also emits thermal radiation, but at a much lower intensity and different spectral distribution (infrared rather than visible) because it is cooler. Thermal radiation is the emission of electromagnetic waves from all matter that has a temperature greater than absolute zero. It represents a conversion of thermal energy into electromagnetic energy. Thermal energy consists of the kinetic energy of random movements of atoms and molecules in matt
thermal radiation. The transmission of heat from a hot surface to a cooler one in the form of invisible electromagnetic waves, which, on being absorbed by the cooler surface, raise the temperature of that surface without warming the space between. 1  Facebook. 2  Twitter. 
Another good example of convection is in the atmosphere. The earth's surface is warmed by the sun, the warm air rises and cool air moves in. RADIATION-- Radiation is a method of heat transfer that does not rely upon any contact between the heat source and the heated object as is the case with conduction and convection. Heat can be transmitted though empty space by thermal radiation often called infrared radiation. 