Plymouth Rock, a tourist attraction, is on the shore under a granite canopy; recreations of Plimoth Plantation and the Mayflower are also there. The pilgrims founded Plymouth on Dec. 21, 1620, establishing a settlement that became the seat of Plymouth Colony in 1633 and a part of Massachusetts Bay Colony in 1691. ~~~~~~~~ THE WINSLOW BROTHERS Five Winslow Brothers came from England to Plymouth Colony between 1620 and 1633. Edward, the oldest of the five, had left England for Holland in order to freely practice his religion. He was one of the 102 Pilgrims who came to America on the Mayflower in 1620.
Plymouth Colony was, along with Jamestown, Virginia, one of two important early English colonies in North America. The colony agreed on a treaty with Chief Massasoit which helped to ensure the colony's success. The colony played a central role in King Phillip's War, one of the earliest and bloodiest of the Indian Wars. Plymouth Colony later merged with the Massachusetts Bay Colony to form the colony of Massachusetts. 1677 map of New England by William Hubbard showing the location of Plymouth Colony.
Best Answer: It was important because: 1. It had one of the first charters in the new world between a government and its citizens (the Mayflower compact) 2. It is one of the first English colonies in America (after Jamestown) 3. Plymouth holds a unique role in American history.
Plymouth served as the capital of Plymouth Colony from its founding in 1620 until the colony's merger with the Massachusetts Bay colony in 1691. Plymouth is named after Plymouth, South West England, United Kingdom. Plymouth served as the capital of Plymouth Colony (which consisted of modern-day Barnstable, Bristol, and Plymouth Counties) from its founding in 1620 until 1691, when the colony was merged with the Massachusetts Bay Colony and other territories to form the Province of Massachusetts Bay.
The Plymouth Colony was located on the Atlantic coast just north of Cape Cod, in what is now called Plymouth, Massachusetts. It was later combined with the Massachusetts Bay C … olony, centered near Boston, Massachusetts, to form the Colony of Massachusetts Bay and Plymouth Plantation. 4 people found this useful. The colonies government system was f … rom the Mayflower Compact, which was made on the Mayflower. The Plymouth colony was a colony whom wanted religious freedom from England so they sailed to the new world in hopes of getting it.
Plymouth Plantation 1620 - 1647 by William Bradford. The colony founded by the Pilgrims that formed Plymouth Colony or Plymouth Plantation was one of the first permanent English settlements, along with J... The Name of War: King Philip's War and the Origins of American Identity by Jill Lepore. 
William Bradford (1590-1657) was a founder and longtime governor of the Plymouth Colony settlement. Born in England, he migrated with the Separatist congregation to the Netherlands as a teenager. 
Plymouth holds a place of great prominence in American history, folklore and culture, and is known as America's Hometown.. Plymouth was the site of the colony founded in 1620 by the Pilgrims, passengers of the famous ship the Mayflower. Plymouth is where New England was first established. Plymouth served as the capital of Plymouth Colony (which consisted of modern-day Barnstable, Bristol, and Plymouth Counties) from its founding in 1620 until 1691, when the colony was merged with the Massachusetts Bay Colony and other territories to form the Province of Massachusetts Bay.
the Plymouth colony is a colony that was established in 1620. The colony consisted of pilgrims from England that wanted religious freedom. The colonies government system was f … rom the Mayflower Compact, which was made on the Mayflower. The Plymouth colony was a colony whom wanted religious freedom from England so they sailed to the new world in hopes of getting it.
Plymouth Colony, founded in 1620 in what is now Massachusetts, was an early English colony in New England. It was founded by Pilgrims, who were members of a Puritan religious group known as the Separatists. Plymouth Colony later merged with the Massachusetts Bay Colony to form the colony of Massachusetts. 1677 map of New England by William Hubbard showing the location of Plymouth Colony.