Anyways I ovulated on my 11th day of cycle which is early for taking clomid. I know this because the 11th day on my 4th cycle of clomid I got PREGNANT! :) There are also clomid ovulation calculaters online if you google them. But i would have sex every other day starting on day 11 of your cycle. Make sure that you do an ovulation predictor kit (and you may need two). I ovulated on Clomid, but it took a couple of cycles for me to realize that I was ovulating on Day 19 or Day 20 instead of Day 14 (which is when most people do).
my doctor told me to start taking clomid 3 days after i started my mentrual. You take it for 5 days then buy a clean blue ovualtion and watch for your high days and then you do it on the high days. Which you will have to be monitored by your doctor to see when your about to release an egg and your hormone levels. Make sure that you do an ovulation predictor kit (and you may need two). I ovulated on Clomid, but it took a couple of cycles for me to realize that I was ovulating on Day 19 or Day 20 instead of Day 14 (which is when most people do).
I am on Clomid day of cycle 5-9, not sure when I'll ovulate but doc said to have sex day 10 eod for 10 days. Make sure that you do an ovulation predictor kit (and you may need two). I ovulated on Clomid, but it took a couple of cycles for me to realize that I was ovulating on Day 19 or Day 20 instead of Day 14 (which is when most people do).
Obviously if you get pregnant then you know that you ovulated, but let's not get ahead of this. Women who take Clomid must first know if they ovulate or not. So let's start at the beginning: You take Clomid for 5 days (usually cycle days 5-9 but you can start taking clomiphene as early as cycle day 2). Ovulation is then supposed to happen about 5-9 days later. Don't know exactly when?
For women that do not ovulate on their own, the average day that ovulation occurs is about 8 to 10 days after completing a 5 day course of Clomid. 
My second round I took 50 mg on cd 4-8 and ovulated on cd 14. This month I took 50 mg on cd 4-8 and am on cd 13. I am hoping I ovulate tomorrow. They say you should ovulate 5-10 days after taking the last clomid pill, but some women do ovulate later than that. I ovulated on cd 23 during my first cycle. I know how stressful it is to wait for the positive opk. For the first 12 months I ttc I did not get a positive opk. I finally saw one taking clomid
When you ovulate on clomidIt is unusual to start clomid on CD 2. One usually starts on CD 3-5 and then takes one pill a day for 5 days. Ovulation usually occurs 5-9 days after … your last pill. So you could ovulate as early as day 11. It is my understanding that you can ovulate on cycle day 11 at the earliest. Ovulation test detect ovulation 24 to 48 hours before. If you in deed took an Ovulation test on c … d9 then it would seem to me that you will be ovulating on CD 11 which is early but entirely possible.
I Ovulate on my own and am very regular. Seriously every 28days. My first month on clomid I didn't ovulate until CD 19 (9days after last pill), and AF was also late CD 31. This month on Clomid I ovulated on CD17(7 days after last pill). I asked my doctor about it and she said while on Clomid you should expect to Ovulate anywhere between CD 11-20, but usually between CD 16-19. She said the change is because we are messing with our hormones. Also pay close attention to the lines on OPK. 
Clomid is usually given for 5 days, starting on cycle days 3-5, and most women will usually ovulate 5-9 days after the last dose of Clomid. Please enter the day you start taking Clomid and this Clomid Calculator will let you know when you could expect to ovulate. Keyword Tags: 