Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Graduated measuring devices have a set of marking on them on the linear or angular scale to which an object feature can be compared to for measurement.
The choice of a suitable device for measuring volume will depend on both the amount of liquid you want to measure, and the level of accuracy needed. In general, you should use the smallest measuring device available that is large enough to hold the volume of liquid you wish to measure.
CHEM 109 Introduction to Chemistry Revision 3.0 Laboratory Exercise: The Precision of Volume Measurements The accurate measurement of the volume of liquids tends to be difficult and chemists have a number of different types of devices for making this measurement; beakers, graduated cylinders, volumetric flasks, etc.
1 Like graduated cylinders, a pipette should not be used to measure volumes that are less than 50% of its capacity. 2  Therefore, pipettes are suitable for measuring volumes of as little as 0.5 mL up to as much as 10 mL. 3  Micropipettors (or automatic pipettors) are generally used to measure volumes of 1 mL or less.
A graduated cylinder measures liquid volume. The word graduated means it's marked off in units, usually milliliters (mL). Because the cylinder is graduated more finely than … most beakers or flasks, the graduated cylinder is the best way to accurately measure liquid volume in science.
A graduated cylinder is a piece of laboratory equipment used to accurately measure out volumes of objects for use in labs. They are generally more accurate and precise for thi … s purpose than flasks and beakers.
Unit 1 – Math & Measurement Rulers, graduated cylinders, and thermometers on “Practice With Reading Measuring Devices Worksheet” are from math-aids.com READING MEASURING DEVICES NOTES Here are a couple of examples of graduated cylinders: An important part of Chemistry is measurement.
1 Pipettes commonly come in sizes of 1 mL, 2 mL, 5 mL, and 10 mL. 2  Like graduated cylinders, a pipette should not be used to measure volumes that are less than 50% of its capacity. 3  Therefore, pipettes are suitable for measuring volumes of as little as 0.5 mL up to as much as 10 mL.