Directions. 1  Preheat oven to 400°F Line your pan with aluminum foil and lightly brush with olive oil, or use a bit of cooking spray. 2  Combine parsley, garlic, lemon zest, and coarse salt on the cutting board. 3  Finely chop, then combine with the breadcrumbs in a shallow plate. 1 Preheat oven to 400°F Line your pan with aluminum foil and lightly brush with olive oil, or use a bit of cooking spray. 2  Combine parsley, garlic, lemon zest, and coarse salt on the cutting board. 3  Finely chop, then combine with the breadcrumbs in a shallow plate. 4  Brush top of each fillet with olive oil
1 Brush top of each fillet with olive oil. 2  Press fillet into the crumb mixture. 3  Place fillets in baking dish, crust-side up. 4  Bake until firm, about 12-15 minutes, depending on the thickness of the fish. 5  Serve with lemon wedges. 1 Preheat oven to 400°F Line your pan with aluminum foil and lightly brush with olive oil, or use a bit of cooking spray. 2  Combine parsley, garlic, lemon zest, and coarse salt on the cutting board. 3  Finely chop, then combine with the breadcrumbs in a shallow plate. 4  Brush top of each fillet with olive oil
Place the packets on a rimmed baking sheet and transfer them to the oven. Bake the fish until it is opaque, about 15 minutes for 6- to 8-ounce fillets. Bake whole fillets for 20 minutes. Increase the cooking time by 2 minutes if you've added vegetables to the packet. 
1 Combine bread crumbs and parsley. 2  Spoon mayonnaise mixture on one side of the cod and dip the coated side in the breadcrumb mixture. 3  Place fish on pan with crumb side up. 4  Bake 15 to 20 minutes or until fish is cooked through and bread crumbs begin to brown. 5  Serve with lemon wedges. Directions. 1  Preheat oven to 450F degrees. 2  Combine mayo, parmesan cheese, lemon juice, anchovy paste and salt and pepper. 3  Combine bread crumbs and parsley. 4  Spoon mayonnaise mixture on one side of the cod and dip the coated side in the breadcrumb mixture. 5  Bake 15 to 20 minutes or until fish is cooked through and bread crumbs begin to brown.
Bake at 450 degrees for 8-10 minutes. 3. COD FILLETS BAKED IN BUTTERMILK WITH MUSHROOMS. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees. Place the cod in a single ... over all and bake in the preheated ... 
Place the cod on a foil-lined baking sheet or a glass baking dish that’s sprayed with cooking spray. Brush the glaze on top of the cod and bake it in an oven that you've preheated to 400 F or 425 F for approximately 8 to 10 minutes, until the fish is opaque and flaky and the glaze is slightly thick and bubbling. Kate Van Vleck/Demand Media. With Potatoes and Vegetables
Baked Cod. Depending on the temperature of the oven and the size of the cod, it should take about fifteen minutes to bake code. Instead of relying on timing, you should learn how to judge when your fish is done. Cod, like most fish, can be checked for doneness by using a fork or knife to gently prod the fish