The allele frequency is distinct from the genotype frequency, although they are related, and allele frequencies can be calculated from genotype frequencies. In population genetics, allele frequencies are used to describe the amount of variation at a particular locus or across multiple loci. When considering the ensemble of allele frequencies for a large number of distinct loci, their distribution is called the allele frequency spectrum. If, , and are the frequencies of the three genotypes at a locus with two alleles, then the frequency p of the A-allele and the frequency q of the B-allele in the population are obtained by counting alleles.
4 Pedro J.N. Silva. nnr '= O On the other hand, the expected combined frequency of blood groups A and O is (p r) (1 q) 2nn nE A O  = + = − + and therefore q can be estimated by nn nq A O +'=1−and in a similar way we obtain nn np'= 1− B + O So, p' , q' and r' are Bernstein's 1925 estimators. 
Thus, this entire population consists of 12,258 (6129 X 2) alleles at the blood type locus. To deter mine the allelic frequencies we simply count the number of M or N alleles and divide by the total number of alleles. So the allelic frequency for the M allele will be: f(M) = [(2 x 1787) + 3039]/12,258 = 0.5395 and the frequency for the N allele will be: f(N) = [(2 x 1303) + 3039]/12,258 = 0.4605 By convention one of the alleles is given the designation P and the other q. Thus for the data we presented above, p=0.5395 and q=0.4605. Because we are analyzing all the alleles, the frequencies shoul d sum to 1.0 and p + q = 1. Furthermore, a population is considered by population geneticists to be polymorphic if two alleles are segregating and if the frequency of the most frequent allele is less than 0.99.
For example, refSNP page for rs222 reports: MAF/MinorAlleleCount:G=0.249/542. This means that for rs222, minor allele is 'G' and has a frequency of 24.9% in the 1000Genome phase 1 population and that 'G' is observed 542 times in the sample population of 1088 people (or 2176 chromosomes). 16094233. 
Allele frequency, or gene frequency, is the relative frequency of an allele (variant of a gene) at a particular locus in a population, expressed as a fraction or percentage. Specifically, it is the fraction of all chromosomes in the population that carry that allele. If, , and are the frequencies of the three genotypes at a locus with two alleles, then the frequency p of the A-allele and the frequency q of the B-allele in the population are obtained by counting alleles.
The Hardy-Weinberg equation is a mathematical equation that can be used to calculate the genetic variation of a population at equilibrium. In 1908, G. H. Hardy and Wilhelm Weinberg independently described a basic principle of population genetics, which is now named the Hardy-Weinberg equation. In addition, the sum of the allele frequencies for all the alleles at the locus must be 1, so p + q = 1. If the p and q allele frequencies are known, then the frequencies of the three genotypes may be calculated using
Evolution is simply a change in frequencies of alleles in the gene pool of a population. For instance, let us assume that there is a trait that is determined by the inheritance of a gene with two alleles--B and b. In this equation, p is the predicted frequency of homozygous dominant (AA) people in a population, 2pq is the predicted frequency of heterozygous (Aa) people, and q is the predicted frequency of homozygous recessive (aa) ones.
To explore the Hardy-Weinberg equation, we can examine a simple genetic locus at which there are two alleles, A and a. The Hardy-Weinberg equation is expressed as: p 2 + 2pq + q 2 = 1. where p is the frequency of the A allele and q is the frequency of the a allele in the population. In the equation, p 2 represents the frequency of the homozygous genotype AA, q 2 represents the frequency of the homozygous genotype aa, and 2pq represents the frequency of the heterozygous genotype Aa. In addition, the sum of the allele frequencies for all the alleles at the locus must be 1, so p + q = 1. If the p and q allele frequencies are known, then the frequencies of the three genotypes may be calculated using the Hardy-Weinberg equation.
Often called gene frequency. A measure of how common an allele is in a population; the proportion of all alleles at one gene locus that are of one specific type in a population. A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z. 