Report Abuse. It's a barge pole. Basically it's a long pole used by people on narrow boats on canals or river barges to push the boat in the desired direction when the rudder is not enough. A barge pole is about 10ft in length hence the full saying I wouldn't touch that with a 10ft barge pole. Dad's found yer scoo'er · 8 years ago.
A barge pole is the long pole that bargees would use to move a barge before motors were fitted. The pole would be used to push against anything, even the bottom of the river which would have covered in effluent in the days when the sewage drained straight into rivers. Basically it's a long pole used by people on narrow boats on canals or river barges to push the boat in the desired direction when the rudder is not enough. A barge pole is about 10ft in length hence the full saying I wouldn't touch that with a 10ft barge pole. Dad's found yer scoo'er · 8 years ago.
Definition of BARGE POLE. : a long pole used on a barge for propelling, for fending off objects, or with an attached hook for holding onto a wharf. ADVERTISEMENT. 1barge.
Noun. 1. barge pole-a long pole used to propel or guide a barge; I wouldn't touch it with a barge pole. pole-a long (usually round) rod of wood or metal or plastic. 
A quant (quant pole) is a pole used to propel a barge (barge pole) or punt through water. A barge quant often has a cap at the top and a prong at the bottom to stop it from sinking into the mud. On the Norfolk Broads these are called a Bott and a Shoe respectively. 
wouldn't touch sth with a barge pole in British English. UK (US wouldn't touch sth with a ten-foot pole) informal › used to ​mean that you ​certainly do not ​want to ​buy something or be ​involved with something. (Definition of wouldn't touch sth with a barge pole from the Cambridge Advanced Learners Dictionary & Thesaurus © Cambridge University Press).
A barge is a flat-bottomed boat, built mainly for river and canal transport of heavy goods. Some barges are not self-propelled and need to be towed or pushed by towboats. Barges are used today for low-value bulk items, as the cost of hauling goods by barge is very low. Barges are also used for very heavy or bulky items; a typical barge measures 195 by 35 feet (59.4 m × 10.6 m), and can carry up to about 1500 tons of cargo.
Origin. There are various version of 'I wouldn't touch ... with a ... pole' - the most commonly used object being either a barge-pole or a ten-foot pole. Barge-poles are the long wooden poles used to push barges along. The term was first recorded in Edward Farmer's Scrap book, being a selection of poems, songs, scraps, etc. , 1846: Barge-pole-A large stick or thick bough. The meaning and origin of the expression: Wouldn't touch with a barge-pole. Home Phrase Dictionary-Meanings and Origins Wouldn't touch with a barge-pole. Browse phrases beginning with: A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T UV W XYZ-Full List. Barge-pole-A large stick or thick bough. Also generally used for any large piece of wood
I wouldn't touch somebody/something with a barge pole. something that you say which means that you think someone or something is so bad that you do not want to be involved with them in any way If I were you, I wouldn't touch that property with a barge pole. See also: barge, pole, touch, with. 1  Facebook. (British & Australian informal) also I wouldn't touch somebody/something with a ten-foot pole (American & Australian informal).