Enduring quality parts on a lawn mower range from the engine itself on down to the tires. These commercial lawn mowers typically are built of more costly parts which prove to be of higher quality and therefore last a good bit longer than residential lawn mower parts do. Another significant difference lies in the cutting decks. A good example of this characteristic is the John Deere Seven Iron II Deck
Facebook Twitter Google Plus LinkedIn. For a long time, the commercial and industrial (C&I) markets have been accepted as one sector of the water industry. Although considered different from such other markets as residential, agricultural and wastewater, there is a large murky area when being separated from each other. When trying to define these and make a clear difference between residential, commercial, industrial and ultrapure, you can talk about it and try to describe it but you have to be careful when drawing lines, Baker says. It really gets difficult because there is a lot of gray area in between.. Commercial
The ride of a prosumer zero turn mower will be better due to larger rear wheels, better built seats, better suspensions, and options like cruise control. You can literally feel the difference between a residential and prosumer zero turn mower. Choose Prosumer Zero Turn Mowers. They are definitely an upgrade over a tractor in the speed and agility departments. If you have less than 2 acres to mow weekly, a residential zero turn mower is for you. The size of the property you mow will determine the size of the cutting deck you need.
There are significant differences in performance and price between zero-turn models. The difference is even greater between residential and commercial models. Your best bet is to buy the best mower you can afford, so in order to be a smart buyer you need to know what makes a quality machine. Almost all residential zero-turn mowers use less complex, less expensive transaxles more suited to the vehicle’s weight and service purpose. The hydraulic pump, motor and reduction gears are in a single, sealed house. The quality of these components varies, with the quality, size, and price of the mower.
Industrial vs Commercial. To understand the difference between industrial and commercial, one should simply look at how these two terms are used in the English language. These two words are used with different senses. For example, there is industrial property as well as commercial property. 
Industrial carpet is typically used in commercial properties and is better adapted to these settings for a number of reasons. There are differences between this type of flooring and the material used in residential properties. 
Yet another critical difference between commercial and residential lawn mowers concerns the engines found in commercial mowers. Such engines are generally larger, more reliable engines which can be started up and utilized in a number of different jobs without demonstrating the slightest hint of any trouble. These commercial lawn mowers typically are built of more costly parts which prove to be of higher quality and therefore last a good bit longer than residential lawn mower parts do. Another significant difference lies in the cutting decks.
Regardless of whether it proves to be a push lawn mower or a riding lawn mower model, numerous differences exist between commercial and residential lawn mowers. Durability is among the greatest of these, and this turns out to be significant for the consumer interested in his return on original investment. These commercial lawn mowers typically are built of more costly parts which prove to be of higher quality and therefore last a good bit longer than residential lawn mower parts do. Another significant difference lies in the cutting decks.
• Residential refers to place that is used for the purposes of living; commercial refers to a place that is used to gain profit, or conduct activities that are other than the simple purpose of living. • Residential property is cheaper than commercial property, though there are exceptions. Residential vs Commercial. Difference between residential and commercial is very obvious. The words residential and commercial come from residence and commerce respectively. Hence, their difference is crystal clear to all.