If you are an iPhone or iPod touch user, you will have to either update the device’s software or back up/restore your data. Although Apple makes most of these tasks as easy as possible, sometimes one wants to have guides just to make sure everything will be OK after the process is over. How to update your iPhone or iPod touch. According to Apple, to be able to update your iPhone or iPod touch software, you have to use iTunes and you will need to follow these steps: 1. Make sure you have the latest version of iTunes installed and running before attempting to update. 2.
If a message says that an update is available, tap Install Now. You can also follow these steps: 1  Plug your device in to power and connect to the Internet with Wi-Fi. 2  Tap Download and Install. 3  If a message asks to temporarily remove apps because iOS needs more space for the update, tap Continue or Cancel. You can also follow these steps: 1  Plug your device in to power and connect to the Internet with Wi-Fi. 2  Tap Download and Install. 3  To update now, tap Install. 4  If asked, enter your passcode.
How to Reverse an iPhone to a Previous Update. Revert your iPhone to its old software with a few quick clicks. Jupiterimages/Creatas/Getty Images. With today's advanced smartphones, such as Apple's iPhone, small business owners and entrepreneurs are no longer tethered to their computers. Step 2. Browse to the iPhone Software Updates folder to locate your previous version of iOS. In Mac OS X, open your Library folder, then iTunes, then iPhone Software Updates.. In Windows, open the Start menu and type %appdata%\Apple Computer\iTunes\iPhone Software Updates into the Search box.
You can set it up from a backup of your iPhone. Keep in mind though, that only universal apps will be rendered to your new iPad’s screen. iPhone only apps will need to be 2X magnified to fit your iPad screen, which looks lousy on an iPad 1 or 2, but may look better on the new iPad. You can restore from an iPhone backup. 
How to Back Up on iCloud. On your device, open the Settings app, select iCloud, and tap Backup. Turn on iCloud Backup. After this option is selected, the device will automatically update when it is connected to the Internet via WiFi, the screen is locked, and it's hooked up to a power source. How to Update to iOS 9. On the device, update by opening the Settings app, tapping on General, and selecting Software Update. You can also connect the device to a computer and find the software update button next to the backup section. Now that you're all backed up, discover all of iOS's greatest tips and tricks.
Update the iOS software on your iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch. Learn how to update your iOS device wirelessly or using iTunes. iOS updates introduce new features that let you do even more with your iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch. You can also follow these steps: 1  Plug your device in to power and connect to the Internet with Wi-Fi. 2  Tap Download and Install. 3  To update now, tap Install. 4  If asked, enter your passcode.
Oct 21, 2010 - 38 Comments. Restoring an iPhone to a previous backup is really easy, and though it’s fairly rare that you will need to restore an iPhone, or any other iOS device for that matter, it can still be necessary from time to time. 
Download and Install the New Version of the iPhone Software. If new iPhone software is available, you should have already clicked Update.. You'll see a pop-up message from iTunes, notifying you that it is about to update your iPhone's software and that it will verify the update with Apple. To make sure that your iPhone is running the latest version of the iPhone software, you'll need to connect it to your computer and download the update using iTunes. But don't worry: the process is pretty painless. Here's a guide that explains exactly how to get the latest iPhone software on your iPhone.