Boiler Thermostats: There are two types of thermostats adaptable to all boilers: the room thermostat and the programmable thermostat. The purpose of a thermostat: According to the type available, the thermostat helps regulate and / or set the temperature in your home. The principle of a room thermostat. The room thermostat can control the temperature of your home by influencing the production and / or distribution of heat. It maintains a constant temperature and therefore is more comfortable and more economical. Using a room thermostat can save you 10-25% of energy. The comfortable temperature recommended for a living room is 19 ° C, and when changed, a single degree can help you save 7%! This decrease in consumption also leads to lower pollution generated by your boiler
Some boilers have separate controls for the temperature of the heating and hot water. This allows you to set the temperature of the water that leaves the boiler to supply the heating. If you lower the temperature, your boiler will operate as efficiently as possible. If you increase the temperature, you will heat your radiators more quickly in cold weather. Boiler controls and thermostats. Find out how to save money with heating controls, and discover the best heating controls for a cosy home. Effective heating controls are a vital part of an efficient boiler-powered central-heating system.
The thermostat on the boiler determines how hot the circulating water gets. The room thermostat determines how hot the air in the room gets. If the water temperature is set too low, the room will take a long time to warm up-and may never get there. Report Abuse. Boiler thermostat is the temperature the boiler heats water to eg 70 degrees. Wall thermostat is room temperature. If you have a higher boiler temperature the room will get to temperature quicker but the gas bill will be higher. Keep the boiler temperature lower at the start of the winter and gradually increase it in the cold weather so that the room gets to temperature in a reasonable tim
Note that many room thermostats are for one room only, and will turn your boiler off when the room it's sited in reaches the set temperature. For this reason, it's best to install your thermostat in a room that you use all the time. Thermostat temperature tips. Set the room thermostat to 18°C and then turn it up by one degree each day until you find a temperature you're comfortable with. Note that the temperature shouldn't drop below 16°C for elderly people and those with impaired mobility.
The thermostat on the boiler controls the temperature of the water issuing from the boiler. The thermostat on the wall of your room maintains the temperature of the room at a preset value-provided the boiler is delivering sufficient heat. Report Abuse. Boiler thermostat is the temperature the boiler heats water to eg 70 degrees. Wall thermostat is room temperature. If you have a higher boiler temperature the room will get to temperature quicker but the gas bill will be higher. Keep the boiler temperature lower at the start of the winter and gradually increase it in the cold weather so that the room gets to temperature in a reasonable time
Boiler thermostat. Your boiler thermostat sets the temperature of the water that will be pumped from the boiler through the radiators to heat your home. The higher this is set, the quicker the system will heat your home. Whatever the age of your boiler, fitting a boiler thermostat, a timer or programmer, a room thermostat and thermostatic radiator valves (TRVs) can help you save money on your fuel bills. Correct boiler controls can also help to ensure that your system meets the requirements of Part L of the Building Regulations.
Boiler thermostats set the temperature of the water that will be pumped to the radiators. The higher this is set, the more energy will be used and the hotter your radiators will become. Boiler controls and thermostats. Central heating boiler costs, particularly operating costs, can be minimised with the right combination of thermostats and controls. Ideally, a full set of controls will include a thermostat for the boiler, a thermostat for each room and TRVs (thermostatic radiator valves).
Room thermostats control the overall temperature throughout your home. They turn your boiler on and off automatically when it reaches the right temperature, meaning they’re a great way to save energy and money. 1  Aim to set your main room thermostat somewhere between 18°C and 21°C. You can then adjust your boiler temperature to maximise its energy efficiency: 1  In winter, and any other time you need heating regularly, set this temperature control to max (80°C). 2  In summer, when you don’t need the heating, set this temperature control somewhere in the middle (55-60°C).