What you’ll need to paint your own wood kitchen table: orbital sander, medium grit sanding discs, foam roller, high quality angled paintbrush, medium grade sanding wedge, respirator, bonding/stain blocking primer, enamel based paint, cotton rags, clear paste wax. Y’all know I’ve been painting furniture and cabinets for years, but this time I tackled the painting of a kitchen table. A kitchen table is the one surface that will get the most traffic of any piece of furniture in your home, and since it gets the most abuse it must be extremely durable.
Instructions. Use a sponge sander to rough up the surface of the table top and legs. Sand lightly -- it is not necessary to remove all of the paint or stain. Wipe the table down with a tack cloth to remove the sanding dust. Turn the table upside down on the drop cloth. Use a foam paintbrush to apply an oil-based primer with a sealer to the table legs. Let the primer dry thoroughly. Turn the table right side up. Apply primer to the table top with a foam paintbrush. Turn the table upside down on the drop cloth. Use a foam paintbrush to paint the table legs. Apply two or three coats of paint, allowing each coat to dry completely between applications. Turn the table right side up. Paint the table top using either a foam paintbrush or a paint roller, for smooth surfaces.
1. Sand the entire table to remove all stain from edges and legs. If using an orbital or belt sander, be careful not to gouge the surface. Do most of the initial sanding and varnish removal with the 100-grit sandpaper, then step up to 150-grit and do a final pass with 220-grit to smooth out the grain for the new finish. Carefully remove all sanding dust with a tack cloth. 3. Apply stain with a brush, following the wood's natural grain. Apply stain liberally, allow it to soak in for a few minutes, then wipe off excess. Tip: The longer stain sits before wiping, the darker the final color will be.
Choose the color of stain based on the style of the table and the wood tones in the rest of your house. The table doesn't have to be an exact match—most homes have a variety of wood colors, so don't stress if your stain's color is a little off. Carefully remove all sanding dust with a tack cloth. 3. Apply stain with a brush, following the wood's natural grain. Apply stain liberally, allow it to soak in for a few minutes, then wipe off excess. Tip: The longer stain sits before wiping, the darker the final color will be.
Knowing how to refinish a kitchen table is great for taking an old piece of furniture and making it look new. You don't have to have any special equipment and you can do it in a weekend. Carefully remove all sanding dust with a tack cloth. 3. Apply stain with a brush, following the wood's natural grain. Apply stain liberally, allow it to soak in for a few minutes, then wipe off excess. Tip: The longer stain sits before wiping, the darker the final color will be.
1 Take the stain off your table. 2  If the finish is stain, you will want to use sandpaper and sand with the grain of the wood until all the stain is gone. 3  Use a hand power sander if you want to, but be careful not to gouge the wood. 4  Begin with 100 grit sandpaper and move to a finer paper to finish for a smoother surface. 1 Remove as much paint or varnish as you can with a scraper or putty knife. 2  Round the edges of your scraping tool to prevent it from gouging the wood. 3  Follow-up with medium grade steel wool. 4  Soaking the steel wool in the stripper may help remove stubborn spots.
1 Sand the entire table removing all stain from edges and legs. 2  If using an orbital or belt sander, be careful not to gouge the surface. 3  Do most of the initial sanding and varnish removal with the 100-grit sandpaper, then step up to 150-grit and do a final pass with 220-grit to smooth out the grain for the new finish. 1 Do most of the initial sanding and varnish removal with the 100-grit sandpaper, then step up to 150-grit and do a final pass with 220-grit to smooth out the grain for the new finish. 2  Carefully remove all sanding dust with a tack cloth. 3  Apply stain with a brush, following the wood's natural grain.
My console table redo was a home-made chalk paint. There are a few things I would have done differently and a ton of things I learned. 1. Don’t ever try and paint a mahogany table, white. Unless you are the most patient person ever or you have all the time in the world. 2. Be prepared to hear your husband say “I told you so.”. 3.Allow more time than you think. I started to sand and then paint, actually my first 2 coats were a paint I got at Lowe’s. But I couldn’t get ride of the brush marks on the top and it drove me nuts. So the road to Annie Sloan Chalk Paint was on. This stuff isn’t cheap.
Refinish an oak veneer table top that is scuffed and faded by years of kitchen use. Detach the table top and relocate to a ventilated workshop to minimize fumes and dust. Remove the old finish, sand and stain, and then coat the surface with several coats of durable water-proof clear coat before reenlisting the table as kitchen furniture. Examine the wooden table to confirm that the table top alone needs refinishing. Remove the top from the frame. Protect it while moving it to a well-ventilated work area to avoid chemical fumes and dust inside your home.
1 Stain your table. 2  Apply the stain liberally with a paintbrush. 3  When brushing it on, go with the grain of the wood. 4  Allow the stain to soak in for a few minutes and then wipe off the excess with a cloth. 1 Remove as much paint or varnish as you can with a scraper or putty knife. 2  Round the edges of your scraping tool to prevent it from gouging the wood. 3  Follow-up with medium grade steel wool. 4  Soaking the steel wool in the stripper may help remove stubborn spots.