4.6 Sources of Glucose. The body’s immediate needs determine whether carbohydrates that have been digested and absorbed are used for immediate energy, converted and stored as glycogen or changed to fat and stored in adipose tissue. Glucose is the principal sugar used by body cells and tissues. 
Starch digestion begins in the mouth. As food does not remain long in the mouth, only a little starch is digested by salivary amylase to maltose. No digestion of carbohy … drates occurs in the stomach; only proteins are digested in the stomach. In the small intestine, starch is digested by pancreatic amylase into maltose, which is digested by maltase into glucose. Lactose is digested by lactase into glucose and galactose. Sucrose is digested by sucrase into glucose and fructose.The end products of carbohydrate digestion are simple sugars (glucose, fructose, and galactose) which can be absorbed. Cellulose is not digested in the humans' gut
Carbohdyrate Digestion. The two digestible carbohydrates are starches and sugars, and both of these carbohydrates are digested, or broken down into their most elementary form, along the gastrointestinal tract. Amylase, an enzyme which breaks apart starches, is found in the mouth and in the small intestine. Types of Carbohydrates. There are three main types of carbohydrates: starches, sugars and dietary fiber. Starches and sugars are considered the energy-yielding carbohydrates because they are fully digestible and, once absorbed, they provide the body with 4 calories of energy per gram of carbohydrate.
Large Intestine (Colon). Carbohydrates that were not digested and absorbed by the small intestine reach the colon where they are partly broken down by intestinal bacteria. Fiber, which cannot be digested like other carbohydrates, is excreted with feces or partly digested by the intestinal bacteria. The main function of carbohydrates is to provide your body with energy to support muscular work, brain activity, breathing and other important activities. Carbohydrates are made up of sugars known as saccharides. Most carbohydrate foods contain many saccharides linked together, which are known as poly
Generally speaking, simple carbs are digested and absorbed more quickly and easily than complex carbs, according to the NIH. Simple carbohydrates contain just one or two sugars, such as fructose (found in fruits) and galactose (found in milk products). These single sugars are called monosaccharides. 
All carbohydrates we consume are digested into monosaccharides or simple sugars before they’re absorbed by the body, regardless of whether the food source is a simple sugar cube or a high-fiber, low glycemic index bowl of oatmeal. 
Simple carbs are digested very quickly whereas complex carbs take longer to digest and are usually packed with fiber, vitamins and minerals. There are two types of dietary fibers: soluble (dissolves in water) and insoluble (doesn't dissolve in water). 
Carbohydrate Elimination. When carbohydrates are not fully digested or absorbed, they are eliminated from the body. Dietary fiber is one of the carbohydrates which humans cannot digest, thus dietary fiber is the most commonly excreted type of carbohydrate. Types of Carbohydrates. There are three main types of carbohydrates: starches, sugars and dietary fiber. Starches and sugars are considered the energy-yielding carbohydrates because they are fully digestible and, once absorbed, they provide the body with 4 calories of energy per gram of carbohydrate.
Starch digestion begins in the mouth. As food does not remain long in the mouth, only a little starch is digested by salivary amylase to maltose. No digestion of carbohydrates occurs in the stomach; only proteins are digested in the stomach. In the small intestine, starch is digested by pancreatic amylase into maltose, which is digested by maltase into glucose. Lactose is digested by lactase into glucose and galactose. Sucrose is digested by sucrase into glucose and fructose.The end products of carbohydrate digestion are simple sugars (glucose, fructose, and galactose) which can be absorbed.