Many record companies won't take an unsolicited artist. I'm just wondering what this means. Add your answer. Source. Submit Cancel. I think this question violates the Community Guidelines. I think this question violates the Terms of Service. 1 You can only upload photos smaller than 5 MB. 2  You can only upload videos smaller than 600MB. 3  You can only upload a photo (png, jpg, jpeg) or a video (3gp, 3gpp, mp4, mov, avi, mpg, mpeg, rm). 4  You can only upload a photo or a video.
Unsolicited material means something that you have just sent off without seeing if they want it. To get TO a publsher, you really need to hire an agent who will do the contacting for you. It's the way the publishing business works. Try this link for starters: http://www.writers.net/agents.html. Unsolicited material is things in which they did not ask to be sent to them or need. Junk mail is classed as unsolicited. Bills and letters for example are soiliced mail.
Best Answer: Jack, you've got two right answers already: unsolicited means they didn't ask for it. Studios and large production companies don't accept unsolicited materials and may not even consider unsolicited queries. They use agents to screen the good stuff from the garbage, and only agents can get their attention. Unsolicited material is things in which they did not ask to be sent to them or need. Junk mail is classed as unsolicited. Bills and letters for example are soiliced mail.
This term is often seen in the content of a grant-maker stating they will not accept unsolicited applications. This means that the grant-maker is not open to receiving applications from organisations or individuals who have not been asked to submit one. If a grant-maker has this policy it generally means that trustees or staff select projects themselves to support and do not respond to unknown applications.
A. Each label has their own definition and policies for “unsolicited” material. “Unsolicited” material means either: 1. materials the record label hasn’t invited you to send, or 2. materials submitted by representatives the label has not had business associations with. How to take your material from “unsolicited” to “solicited” depends on the label. With some labels, getting to know someone at the label and asking their permission to send your music is enough to be considered “solicited” and get it past the wastebasket.
Examples of Grant Makers that do not Accept Unsolicited Applications. 1  The Atlantic Philanthropies. 2  Carnegie UK Trust (active in Ireland). 3  One Foundation. 4  Starr Foundation. 5  NTR Foundation. This means that the grant-maker is not open to receiving applications from organisations or individuals who have not been asked to submit one. If a grant-maker has this policy it generally means that trustees or staff select projects themselves to support and do not respond to unknown a
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Unsolicited means unsought or not requested. It means they didn't ask for or find the artist. Like if the artist sends in their own CD to the record company or something then the company won't go for it. 1 You can only upload photos smaller than 5 MB. 2  You can only upload videos smaller than 600MB. 3  You can only upload a photo (png, jpg, jpeg) or a video (3gp, 3gpp, mp4, mov, avi, mpg, mpeg, rm). 4  You can only upload a photo or a video.
Not asked for; given or done voluntarily: unsolicited junk mail. More example sentences. Synonyms. 1  And studios mostly don't steal ideas from unsolicited scripts that come in, because if you do that you do get sued. 2  I don't buy things at the door, or from an unsolicited phone call. 1 And studios mostly don't steal ideas from unsolicited scripts that come in, because if you do that you do get sued. 2  I don't buy things at the door, or from an unsolicited phone call. 3  How dare I not take her unsolicited advice on the use of a cooking oil!
Solicited. This is a trade transaction where the registered representative contacts the client and initiates the buy or sell transaction. If the trade is initiated by a client, the subsequent trade confirmation will indicate unsolicited..