In the Japanese language, shiatsu means finger pressure. Shiatsu techniques include massages with fingers, thumbs, and palms; assisted stretching; and joint manipulation and mobilization. To examine a patient, a shiatsu practitioner uses palpation and, sometimes, pulse diagnosis. Shiatsu derives from a Japanese massage modality called anma. The Japanese may have adapted anma from tui na, a Chinese bodywork system that arrived in Japan during the Nara period (710–793 CE). Tokujiro Namikoshi (1905–2000) founded a shiatsu college in the 1940s, and is often credited with inventing modern shiatsu
Shiatsu translates as finger pressure.. There are different styles of Shiatsu, all of which have roots in one of three systems that developed in Japan in the early 1900s as a result of a resurgence of Japan's traditional medical therapies, including acupuncture and anma massage. Shiatsu can be used in the treatment of a wide range of internal, musculoskeletal, and emotional conditions. It is thought to reduce muscle stiffness, stimulate the skin, aid digestion, and influence the nervous system.
About Shiatsu. Shiatsu is a physical therapy that supports and strengthens the body’s natural ability to heal and balance itself. It works on the whole person-not just with the physical body, but also with the psychological, emotional and spiritual aspects of being. Originally he used the term shiatsu ryoho or finger pressure way of healing, then shiatsu ho or finger pressure method. Now known simply as Shiatsu, it was officially recognized as a therapy by the Japanese Government in 1964, so distinguishing it from anma and Western massage.
Shiatsu is a style of bodywork developed in Japan. It is similar to acupuncture, but uses finger pressure instead of needles. Shiatsu's name comes from two Japanese words -- shi or finger and atsu or pressure. Shiatsu's goal is to restore the healthy flow of energy throughout the body. 
Shiatsu means “finger pressure” in Japanese. During this type of massage, Shiatsu therapists use firm pressure and muscle manipulation techniques using not only fingers, but also elbows, knees, and feet. This pressure is placed along specific points of your body, called meridians, to release tension. 
Definition. Shiatsu is a manipulative therapy developed in Japan and incorporating techniques of anma (Japanese traditional massage), acupressure, stretching, and Western massage. 
Shiatsu is an Asian bodywork form of massage. The term Shiatsu in Japanese translates to finger pressure. Discover what sets a Shiatsu treatment apart from other forms of massage! For one, the client can remain fully clothed and the treatment is given on a mat rather than a tabl
Shiatsu is a form of therapeutic bodywork from Japan. It uses kneading, pressing, soothing, tapping, and stretching techniques and is performed without oils through light, comfortable clothing. Shiatsu can be used in the treatment of a wide range of internal, musculoskeletal, and emotional conditions. It is thought to reduce muscle stiffness, stimulate the skin, aid digestion, and influence the nervous system.
The word “Shiatsu” comes from the Japanese words “shi,” which means finger, and “atsu,” which means pressure. Shiatsu massage, also known as Zen Shiatsu, is a conventional applied physiotherapy derived from Japanese massage traditions. It deals with the pious, theoretical, and medical characteristics of the body. 
Shiatsu evolved from anma, a Japanese massage modality developed in 1320 by Akashi Kan Ichi. Anma was popularised in the seventeenth century by acupuncturist Sugiyama Waichi, and around the same time the first books on the subject, including Fujibayashi Ryohaku's Anma Tebiki (Manual of Anma), appeared. To examine a patient, a shiatsu practitioner uses palpation and, sometimes, pulse diagnosis. Shiatsu derives from a Japanese massage modality called anma. The Japanese may have adapted anma from tui na, a Chinese bodywork system that arrived in Japan during the Nara period (710–793 CE).