Primary relationships are most common in small and traditional societies. A primary group is a group in which one exchanges implicit items, such as love, caring & concern. Primary groups are composed of people who are emotionally closed, concerned for each other`s welfare and share a sense of We.
A primary group is typically a small social group whose members share close, personal, enduring relationships. These groups are marked by members' concern for one another, in shared activities and culture. Examples include family, childhood friends, and highly influential social groups. A primary group is a group in which one exchanges implicit items, such as love, caring, concern, animosity, support, etc. Examples, of these would be family groups, love relationships, crisis support groups, church groups, etc.
Under primary group we understand a small social group, members of which share personal and close relations with each other. Secondary group is usually a social group member of which do not have so close personal relations as in the primary one (Marshall, 1998). They are limited by the goal of each secondary group. The meaning of relations inside primary and secondary groups is also different. In primary groups relations themselves make the main value for the members of the group. For example, family relations are valuable themselves, they do not serve for special goals.
Primary groups differ from secondary groups in the quality, length, and breadth of the relationships. They also differ in their purposes. My primary groups are my family, my rowing team, and my online chat group. I’m close with my siblings and see them frequently—I even share an apartment with my older brother. 
Member of one primary group may be involved in many activities. The situation is different for the secondary groups. In secondary groups activities are usually narrow. They are limited by the goal of each secondary group. The meaning of relations inside primary and secondary groups is also different. In primary groups relations themselves make the main value for the members of the group. For example, family relations are valuable themselves, they do not serve for special goals.
Cooley developed the terms primary group ' and secondary group Primary group is a circle of individuals formed as networks or personal communities where the people are extensively involved (Drislane Parkinson, n .d Wellman, 1988 cited in Kunitz, 2004. In contrast to the close relationship of primary groups, secondary groups are larger and more. br disparate or nucleated ' where the individuals share a specialized relationship linked by a common instrumentally-related trait (Drislane Parkinson, n .d Marshall, 1998.
Primary groups: people who are emotionally close, know one another well and seek one another's company. The major characteristics of primary and secondary groups are with primary groups they are more close together like in best friends and all. Secondary groups are not that clos … e and not together all the time. 14 people found this useful.
Primary relationships are most common in small and traditional societies. A primary group is a group in which one exchanges implicit items, such as love, caring & concern. Pri … mary groups are composed of people who are emotionally closed, concerned for each other`s welfare and share a sense of We. The major characteristics of primary and secondary groups are with primary groups they are more close together like in best friends and all. Secondary groups are not that clos … e and not together all the time. 14 people found this useful.
How a primary group differs from a secondary group? A primary group is composed of people who are emotionally close; who know each other well, and seeks another's company. In contrast secondary groups exist to accomplish a specific purpose. Unlike a primary group, a secondary group is impersonal and goal oriented; it involves only a segment of its member's life.