Years of Experience. For those with five to nine years of experience, average earnings amount to $50K per year. The largest slice of the American Income Life Insurance Company workforce (47 percent) has been working for one to four years and earns, on average, $33K annually. American Income Life Insurance Company workers in California earn the most — around $53K per year on average.
Historically, the company's life insurance operations in Asia were key assets, and their piecemeal disposal ended a long story. After selling American Life Insurance Company (ALICO) to MetLife in 2010 and taking its China-based AIA Group Ltd. public in 2010, the company closed the sale of its Taiwan unit Nan Shan Life in 2011. The Ruen Chen investment consortium paid $2.16 billion in cash for what is Taiwan's third-largest insurer. Earlier in 2011 it sold its Japanese life insurance companies, AIG Star Life Insurance and AIG Edison Life Insurance, to Prudential Financial.
American Income Life Careers. American Income Life Insurance Company seeks a select group of leaders, entrepreneurs, and high achievers eager to jumpstart their sales career with a fast-paced, stable, and internationally growing company. At American Income Life, 'Opportunity Unlimited' means YOU decide what you're worth. American Income Life's independent agency offices offer vocational insurance sales training and coaching with resources available online via computer or smart device.
Headquartered in Waco, Texas, American Income Life is licensed in the United States, Canada, New Zealand, and through our wholly-owned subsidiaries, National Income Life Insurance Company in New York, and Union Heritage Life Assurance Company Limited in the Republic of Ireland. American Income Life Insurance Company (AIL) was founded in 1951 by philanthropist Bernard Rapoport. Today, American Income Life strives to be the premier provider of life and supplemental health insurance to labor unions, credit unions, association members, and middle-income working families
For the most part, employee paychecks at American Income Life Insurance Company fluctuate depending on how long you've been working; what you do at the company also matters, but to a lesser degree. This overview is based on answers to PayScale's salary questionnaire. Employer: American Income Life Insurance Company. The largest slice of the American Income Life Insurance Company workforce (47 percent) has been working for one to four years and earns, on average, $33K annually. American Income Life Insurance Company workers in California earn the most — around $53K per year on average.
Average American Income Life Insurance Company Salaries. The average salary for american income life insurance company jobs is $51,000. Average american income life insurance company salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. This salary was calculated using the average salary for all jobs with the term american income life insurance company anywhere in the job listing. The american income life insurance company salary comparisons feature allows job seekers to get the information required to make important career decisions and negotiate salary ranges. For additional american income life insurance company salary information, we recommend visiting Payscale.com.
AIL also has a wholly-owned subsidiary: National Income Life Insurance Company, licensed in the state of New York. American Income Life, along with our New York subsidiary National Income Life, has combined assets of more than $3 billion with more than $46.6 billion of life insurance in force in 2014. (as of 4/15). Join LinkedIn to get the latest news, insights, and opportunities from over 3 million companies. American Income Life is a major provider of supplemental insurance benefits to working families through relationships established with labor unions, credit unions, and associations.