Detergents. $.64. Chemical cost per car is an average of the wash packages, meaning a base wash may for instance cost around $.45 in chemicals and a top wash more around $1.20 with our average being $.64 per car. Detergent costs also vary by supplier and discount levels, which are often based on order volume. Electricity has some efficiency when busy, when motors keep running they cost less than starting and stopping them. Therefore on a busy day the electric cost per car may be $.25 / car, but when starting up all motors for one car may be $1.00 / car, as the $.50 / car is an average.
Find How to make more money at your car wash.Cheap Car Wash ChemicalsCar Wash ChemicalsCar WashChemicalsDrum priceCost Per Carchemical suppliertrue costactual cost per cardesired resultvolumetric analysisvolumetricdrum price drum price vs. true cost per car analysis. The proof is the actual cost per car while achieving desired result in your cheap car wash chemicals. Insist that your chemical supplier do a volumetric analysis on cheap car wash chemicalsKey Mistakes when Purchasing Chemicals for Your Car Wash.
Powdered chemicals are, by far, the most cost effective way to clean cars. Powders average between $40 to $50 per 50 pound box, and will make 50 to 100 gallons of product that is further diluted 20-60/1. Additionally, simply double-checking your dilution ratios could help you cut your chemical costs. And April 1st marks the start of our month-long Monster Soap Special-a great opportunity to stock up on soap and cut down on chemical costs! Car Wash Chemical-Reducing Cost Per Car. Between the weather, fuel costs, and price increases on the supplies we use, it has gotten harder to make ends meet
The proof is in the actual cost per car while achieving the desired result in your wash. Insist that your chemical supplier do a volumetric analysis on their products and give you a true cost per wash figure. A $500 drum that is used at 4 oz per wash is 5% less expensive than a $300 drum that is used at 7oz. per wash. Also be sure that you are getting the desired results from the amount of product being applied. Getting a car half clean is not a good value, even at half the cost. The proof is the actual cost per car while achieving desired result in your cheap car wash chemicals. Insist that your chemical supplier do a volumetric analysis on cheap car wash chemicalsKey Mistakes when Purchasing Chemicals for Your Car Wash.
LustraBear_TipOfMonth_Banner_300x235.jpg. Volumetrics is an essential process for precise measurement of chemicals used per car wash application. Methods of completing volumetrics are measuring product in its original container or drum, graduated cylinders or using a digital counting scale. These methods are measuring the volume of product used per application. Specific gravity by product is available through your distributor. These procedures can be repeated for each product. Accuracy in volumetrics, whether through the use of graduated cylinders or the scale, is important in providing accurate cost per car.
$0.000. If you would like a copy of your calculations, click here to print: Thank you for using our cost per car calculator. We hope that our calculator becomes a useful tool for you and your business. We believe that this is the most accurate method to calculate your cost per car. Most operators will use this method on a monthly basis to calculate their cost to compare it month to month. 1 CARS WASHED-Amount of cars washed in one month after marking the factory fill line. 2  REPEAT PROCESS-We recommend that you repeat this process on a monthly basis to keep track of