In this article. Osteomyelitis is an infection of the bone, a rare but serious condition. Bones can become infected in a number of ways: Infection in one part of the body may spread through the bloodstream into the bone, or an open fracture or surgery may expose the bone to infection. 
1 A bone fracture, some injury, or a complication of orthopedic surgery may result in a bone infection. 2  The bone infection may be caused by a pre-existing condition, such as diabetes. 3  In such cases, the supply of blood to the bone is undermined; specifically white blood cells (which fight infection). 1 A pre-existing blood infection may spread to a bone. 2  A bone fracture, some injury, or a complication of orthopedic surgery may result in a bone infection. 3
1 The bone infection may be caused by a pre-existing condition, such as diabetes. 2  In such cases, the supply of blood to the bone is undermined; specifically white blood cells (which fight infection). 3  Hematogenous osteomyelitis-the infection travels through the bloodstream. 1 A pre-existing blood infection may spread to a bone. 2  A bone fracture, some injury, or a complication of orthopedic surgery may result in a bone infection. 3 
What is osteomyelitis? Osteomyelitis is an infection of the bone, caused by bacteria or fungi. Symptoms include bone pain, swelling, fever, aches and pains, and headache. The infection may occur at areas near the bone where there was trauma, such as a skin ulcer, surgery, or other injuries. 
Osteomyelitis is an inflammation or swelling of bone tissue that is usually the result of an infection. Bone infection may occur for many different reasons and can affect children or adults. Some of the causes of osteomyelitis include the following: Osteomyelitis may occur as a result of a bacterial bloodstream infection, sometimes called bacteremia, or sepsis, that spreads to the bone.
Osteomyelitis means infection of the bone or bone marrow; inflammation of the bone due to infection. Osteomyelitis sometimes occurs as a complication of injury or surgery. In some cases, the infection may get into bone tissue from the bloodstream. Patients with osteomyelitis typically experience deep pain and muscle spasms in the inflammation area, as well as fever. 1 A pre-existing blood infection may spread to a bone. 2  A bone fracture, some injury, or a complication of orthopedic surgery may result in a bone infection. 3  The bone infection may be caused by a pre-existing condition, such as diabetes.
An open wound over a bone can lead to osteomyelitis. This happens most commonly with underlying peripheral vascular disease, peripheral neuropathy, or diabetes. With an open fracture (compound fracture), the bone that punctures through the skin is exposed to bacteria. This increases the risk of osteomyelitis. 1 Osteomyelitis is an infection of bone. 2  Osteomyelitis can occur in any age group. 3  Treatment of osteomyelitis can include antibiotics, splinting, or surgery. 4  A delay in diagnosis or treatment of osteomyelitis can lead to permanent deficits.
Osteomyelitis is the medical term for a bone infection. Bone infections are caused when a break in the skin allows germs, usually bacteria, to spread into bone tissue. Bacteria can also spread from infections in other parts of the body by traveling through the blood to infect a bone. The most common cause is a bacterium called Staphylococcus aureus. Chronic osteomyelitis is more likely to occur if there is an open injury near a bone that allows bacteria to spread directly into the bone. This type of infection is more common in adults and can take from one to several months to develop.
Causes. Most cases of osteomyelitis are caused by staphylococcus bacteria, types of germs commonly found on the skin or in the nose of even healthy individuals. Germs can enter a bone in a variety of ways, including: 1  The bloodstream. 
Causes of osteomyelitis. Osteomyelitis is an infection of the bone usually caused by bacteria. Most cases are caused by bacteria called staphylococcus aureus, commonly found on the skin or in the nose. In cases of chronic osteomyelitis, abscesses can block the blood supply to the bone, which will eventually cause the bone to die. Dead bone with no blood supply must be removed if infection is to be cleared.