Hey pal, DNA Polymerase is a polymerase that synthesizes a DNA strand ... so it's used in DNA replication. RNA Polymerase is not used to form the primer-that is primases job. RNA Pol is used during transcription to synthesize the mRNA strand. EK does a decent job describing a primer. I believe it is in orange text on the right hand margin. Anyhow, the primer starts DNA Polymerase off during replication.
DNA polymerase 1 removes the RNA primer and fills in the nucleotides which are necessary for the formation of the DNA in the direction- 5’ to 3’. It also helps in proof reading to see if there is any mistake done while replication and while matching base pairs. DNA polymerase 3 is also called as holoenzyme and it is the most essential component of replisome. Difference in function. DNA polymerase 1 functions helps in DNA replication. It is used for molecular biology research. During the process of replication, an RNA primer is filled in the lagging strand of the DNA.
Compare RNA-dependent RNA polymerase. RNA polymerase (RNAP or RNApol), also known as DNA-dependent RNA polymerase, is an enzyme that produces primary transcript RNA. In cells, RNAP is necessary for constructing RNA chains using DNA genes as templates, a process called transcription. RNA polymerase enzymes are essential to life and are found in all organisms and many viruses.
RNA polymerase is an enzyme that is responsible for copying a DNA sequence into an RNA sequence, duyring the process of transcription. RNA polymerases have been found in all species, but the number and composition of these proteins vary across taxa. For instance, bacteria contain a single type of RNA polymerase, while eukaryotes (multicellular organisms and yeasts) contain three distinct types.
SUMMARY: 1.DNA polymerase synthesizes DNA while RNA polymerase synthesizes RNA. 2.In contrast with the DNA polymerase, RNA polymerases do not necessarily require the so called primer to start the process and they actually have no proofreading systems. A nucleotide can be added to DNA polymerase only on a pre-existing 3’-OH group which requires a primer so that it may add to the nucleotide. The so called primers do contain DNA and RNA base. DNA has the base thymine while RNA has uracil as its base.
The DNA polymerases are enzymes that create DNA molecules by assembling nucleotides, the building blocks of DNA. These enzymes are essential to DNA replication and usually work in pairs to create two identical DNA strands from a single original DNA molecule. Hence, DNA polymerase moves along the template strand in a 3'-5' direction, and the daughter strand is formed in a 5'-3' direction. This difference enables the resultant double-strand DNA formed to be composed of two DNA strands that are antiparallel to each other.
DNA POLYMERASE vs RNA POLYMERASE. The main function of a polymerase which is an enzyme is somehow similar to nucleic acid polymers like that of DNA and RNA. A nucleotide can be added to DNA polymerase only on a pre-existing 3’-OH group which requires a primer so that it may add to the nucleotide. The so called primers do contain DNA and RNA base. DNA has the base thymine while RNA has uracil as its base.
RNA polymerase. In most prokaryotes, a single RNA polymerase species transcribes all types of RNA. Figure 10-7 shows the structure of RNA polymerase from E. coli. We can see that the enzyme consists of four different subunit types. Initiation of transcription. (a) RNA polymerase searches for a promoter site. (b) It recognizes a promoter site and binds tightly, forming a closed complex. (c) The holoenzyme unwinds a short stretch of DNA, forming an open complex.
Transcription by RNA polymerase. An RNA strand is synthesized in the 5′ → 3′ direction from a locally single stranded region of DNA. (After E. J. Gardner, M. J. Simmons, and D. P. Snustad, Principles of Genetics, (more...). Initiation of transcription. (a) RNA polymerase searches for a promoter site. (b) It recognizes a promoter site and binds tightly, forming a closed complex. (c) The holoenzyme unwinds a short stretch of DNA, forming an open complex.
7.Subunits contained in RNA polymerases must unwind the templates of DNA and the DNA polymerases do actually abide the helicase that the double helix may be open just in front of it. 8.Lastly, DNA polymerase is a lot faster compared to RNA polymerase. A nucleotide can be added to DNA polymerase only on a pre-existing 3’-OH group which requires a primer so that it may add to the nucleotide. The so called primers do contain DNA and RNA base. DNA has the base thymine while RNA has uracil as its base.