By Anne Marie Helmenstine, Ph.D. Coenzyme Definition: A coenzyme is a substance that works with an enzyme to initiate or aid the function of the enzyme. Coenzymes cannot function on their own and require the presence of an enzyme. Examples: The B vitamins serve as coenzymes essential for enzymes to form fats, carbohydrates and proteins
Noun. 1. coenzyme-a small molecule (not a protein but sometimes a vitamin) essential for the activity of some enzymes. molecule - (physics and chemistry) the simplest structural unit of an element or compound. cocarboxylase, thiamine pyrophosphate-a coenzyme important in respiration in the Krebs cycle. A nonproteinaceous organic substance that usually contains a vitamin or mineral and combines with a specific protein, the apoenzyme, to form an active enzyme system. co′en·zy·mat′ic (-zə-măt′ĭk) adj. co·en′zy·mat′i·cal·ly adv.
Coenzyme. Definition. noun, plural: coenzymes. A complex organic (or metalloorganic) molecule required by a particular enzyme to carry out catalysis of a chemical reaction. Supplement. Coenzymes are small organic molecules that are needed by certain enzymes for them to function.
Noun. 1. coenzyme-a small molecule (not a protein but sometimes a vitamin) essential for the activity of some enzymes. molecule - (physics and chemistry) the simplest structural unit of an element or compound. cocarboxylase, thiamine pyrophosphate-a coenzyme important in respiration in the Krebs cycle
A cofactor is a non-protein chemical compound that is required for the protein's biological activity. These proteins are commonly enzymes, and cofactors can be considered helper molecules that assist in biochemical transformations. 
Coenzyme: A substance that enhances the action of an enzyme. (An enzyme is a protein that functions as a catalyst to mediate and speed a chemical reaction). Coenzymes are small molecules. They cannot by themselves catalyze a reaction but they can help enzymes to do so. In technical terms, coenzymes are organic nonprotein molecules that bind with the protein molecule (apoenzyme) to form the active enzyme (holoenzyme).
(An enzyme is a protein that functions as a catalyst to mediate and speed a chemical reaction). Coenzymes are small molecules. They cannot by themselves catalyze a reaction but they can help enzymes to do so. In technical terms, coenzymes are organic nonprotein molecules that bind with the protein molecule (apoenzyme) to form the active enzyme (holoenzyme).
coenzymes are organic molecules that are required by certain enzymes to carry out catalysis. They bind to the active site of the enzyme and participate in catalysis but are not considered substrates of the reaction. coenzymes often function as intermediate carriers of electrons, specific atoms or functional groups that are transfered in the overall reaction. An example of this would be the role of NAD in the transfer of electrons in certain coupled oxidation reduction reactions.