Best Answer: First calculate how many moles of C6H14 are in 1 litre of gasoline. To do this, you first find out how many grams in a litre (density x 1000). Then you find out how many grams in a gallon (previous answer x 4.55). So now you have the mass of 1 gallon of gasoline. To get the number of moles, you divide by the molecular mass of C6H14. Once you have the number of moles, you can find how many molecules are in it by multiplying by avogadro's number. Ok well im failing Chemistry right now with a 62 and i really have to pass so when i asked me Chem teacher he gave me this question and told me to do whatever to find the answer... Using your knowledge of mole calculations and unit conversions, determine how many atoms and in one
Therefore, though carbon dioxide is also a greenhouse gas, carbon dioxide that is the result of the combustion of methane has replaced a more dangerous gas in the atmosphere. You can learn more about natural gas and methane here: EPA. 2010. Inventory of U.S. Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Sinks: 1990-2008. One molecule of methane contains one carbon atom and four hydrogen atoms. In contrast, a molecule of ethane contains two carbons and six hydrogens, while propane contains three carbons and eight hydrogens.
EXTRA If you know any... show more Ethanol (C2H5OH *numbers are subscripts*), a domestically produced fuel source, is often blended wtih gasoline. A sample of ethanol has a mass of 45.6. a) how many carbon atoms does the sample sample contain? b) how many hydrogen atoms are present? c) how many oxygen atoms are present? EXTRA If you know any good Chemistry help websites PLEASE post them I need help with writing chemical formulas Molar Mass Moles ETC.
Crude oil molecules contain five or more carbon atoms per molecule. Natural gas is both a clean burning fuel source and the primary feedstock into the U.S. petrochemical industry. Raw natural gas in fields is processed to separate the methane out from butane, propane, and large amounts of ethane. 
For example, consider a single molecule of octane—a typical hydrocarbon that you'd find in gasoline. Octane consists of eight atoms of carbon and 18 atoms of hydrogen, written as C 8 H 18. If you break down the octane and mix it with enough oxygen (O 2), you've got the ingredients—i.e., the atoms of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen—to make eight molecules of carbon dioxide (CO 2) and nine molecules of water (H 2 O). The Environmental Protection Agency starts with a guess for how many grams of carbon are in each gallon of gas. First, they determine how much carbon is in each particular kind of gasoline, and then they come up with a weighted average based on consumption levels for each variety.
It depends on the amount of gasoline and its composition; gasoline is not a compound with a fixed proportion between elements, but rather a mixture. If the questioner means th … e normal range of carbon atoms per molecule in gasoline, this is usually considered to be from 6 to 10. 
Confidence votes 18.4K. It depends on the amount of gasoline and its composition; gasoline is not a compound with a fixed proportion between elements, but rather a mixture. If the questioner means the normal range of carbon atoms per molecule in gasoline, this is usually considered to be from 6 to 10. The carbon atom has 15 known isotopes, all of which vary in the  number of neutrons. The most common isotope, carbon-12 has 6  neutrons.
3. Find the number of atoms in 1 gallon of gasoine: One mole of gasoline (or anything else) contains Avogadro number of molecules i.e. 6.022 times 10 power 23, So the number of atoms = 6.022 x 10^23 * 37.41 = 2.25 x 10^26 Hope this helps. Ok well im failing Chemistry right now with a 62 and i really have to pass so when i asked me Chem teacher he gave me this question and told me to do whatever to find the answer... Using your knowledge of mole calculations and unit conversions, determine how many atoms and in one gallon of gasoline.
Alkanes belong to a homologous series of organic compounds in which the members differ by a molecular mass of 14.03u (mass of a methanediyl group, —CH 2 —, one carbon atom of mass 12.01u, and two hydrogen atoms of mass ≈ 1.01u each). There are two main commercial sources: petroleum (crude oil) and natural gas. Alkanes consist only of hydrogen and carbon atoms and all bonds are single bonds. Alkanes (technically, always acyclic or open-chain compounds) have the general chemical formula C n H 2n+2. For example, methane is CH 4, in which n=1 (n being the number of carbon atoms).
The hydrocarbon fractions are mainly alkanes used as fuels. Name Number of Carbon Atoms Boiling Point (°C) Uses Refinery Gas 3 or 4 below 30 Bottled Gas (propane or butane). Petrol 7 to 9 100 to 150 Fuel for car engines. Naphtha 6 to 11 70 to 200 Solvents and used in petrol. 