4.5k Views • Bruce has 90+ answers in. I would estimate the average cost of an elevator, inclusive of installation, to be around $80,000.00. I've never seen an estimate for an elevator that did not include installation, as only licensed elevator installation technicians can install an elevator in a building. Prices can vary widely depending on the mechanicals used and passenger cabs with interior finishes chosen.
Steven, The installation cost of a new elevator will include some additional costs for building the shaft, running electrical, the pit and pumps and HVAC for the shaft. Additionally, with the base cost of an elevator being in the ballpark of $70k for a 2-stop, you will add anywhere from $10-$15k per additional stop. This data is also very consistent with installed costs for similar elevator units in projects that we have designed in both Colorado and Texas. The highest average cost for these units has reached over $90,000 in the last two years, and is likely to return to those levels in the future.
Hydraulic and roped elevators are the two main types of commercial elevators in use today A basic two or three story version costs $20,000 to $28,000, including installation-this would be for a HOUSE application. They are vacuum technology. A commercial elevator would be based on the size of the building-how large you wanted the elevator-if you wanted service & maintenance, finish on the elevator, etc. Estimate $75,000 to $150,000 including installation.
The installed cost of these units range from $65,000 to $75,000, depending on the location, and the trend right now is in a down cycle. This data is also very consistent with installed costs for similar elevator units in projects that we have designed in both Colorado and Texas. The highest average cost for these units has reached over $90,000 in the last two years, and is likely to return to those levels in the future.
Bob, It certainly should be possible to install a new elevator in the existing shaft. Logistics would heavily influence the cost of that, but I would expect a new elevator to be anywhere from $60k-$80k installed, assuming typical building conditions and construction. This data is also very consistent with installed costs for similar elevator units in projects that we have designed in both Colorado and Texas. The highest average cost for these units has reached over $90,000 in the last two years, and is likely to return to those levels in the future.
Designing in an elevator to new home or a renovation is worth the trouble, whether you install an elevator at the onset, or wait until your own need arises. We have had an elevator for 15 years allowing wheelchair access to 2/3 of our floors. As you can see there are a few kinds, and it makes a difference if you are putting one in during new construction or if you are retrofitting an existing space. The actual elevator itself can run $15,000 to $25,000, which doesn't include the cost of building a shaft or a machine room or running electrical.
How much does an elevator cost for a 5 story loft building in Soho or Tribeca? Assume 5 floors of 2000 square feet each with average ceiling heights between 14-16ft. 