Overview. Vitamin H, more commonly known as biotin, is part of the B complex group of vitamins. All B vitamins help the body to convert food (carbohydrates) into fuel (glucose), which is used to produce energy. These B vitamins, often referred to as B complex vitamins, also help the body metabolize fats and protein. It’s rare to be deficient in biotin. Symptoms include hair loss, dry scaly skin, cracking in the corners of the mouth (called cheilitis), swollen and painful tongue that is magenta in color (glossitis), dry eyes, loss of appetite, fatigue, insomnia, and depression.
Biotin is used for preventing and treating biotin deficiency associated with pregnancy, long-term tube feeding, malnutrition, and rapid weight loss. It is also used orally for hair loss, brittle nails, skin rash in infants (seborrheic dermatitis), diabetes, and mild depression. Likely Effective for: 1  Treating and preventing biotin deficiency. 2  Symptoms of deficiency include thinning of the hair (often with loss of hair color), and red scaly rash around the eyes, nose, and mouth. 3  Other symptoms include depression, listlessness, hallucinations, and tingling in the arms and legs
Biotin deficiency is a rare nutritional disorder which can become serious, even fatal, if allowed to progress untreated. It can occur in people of any age, ancestry, or gender. Biotin is part of the B vitamin family. Genetic disorders such as Biotinidase deficiency, Multiple carboxylase deficiency, and Holocarboxylase synthetase deficiency can also lead to inborn or late-onset forms of biotin deficiency. In all cases – dietary, genetic, or otherwise – supplementation with biotin is the primary method of treatment.
Background. Biotin deficiency is a rare nutritional disorder caused by a deficiency of the water-soluble B vitamin termed biotin. This article discusses biotin deficiency caused by deficiency of the enzyme biotinidase (see also Biotinidase Deficiency). Over 140 different genetic defects have been noted with biotinase. Biotin deficiency rarely, if ever, occurs in healthy individuals who consume a regular diet unless they are being treated either with certain anticonvulsants or with broad-spectrum antibiotics. The extremely low prevalence of biotin deficiency is probably the result of a combination of factors
Although biotin deficiency is rare, it can develop during pregnancy or in people who have poor nutrition or experience rapid weight loss. Symptoms of biotin deficiency include hair loss, dry skin, a scaly rash around the eyes or mouth, dry eyes, fatigue, and depression. Biotin is a form of vitamin B, present in many foods and available as a supplement. Biotin is sold under many names, including Appearex, vitamin B7, vitamin H, biotina, biotine, and coenzyme R. Many multivitamins and B-vitamin supplements also contain biotin.
Biotin deficiency rarely occurs among healthy people because the daily requirement of biotin is low, many foods provide adequate amounts of it, intestinal bacteria synthesize small amounts of it, and the body effectively scavenges and recycles it from bodily waste. Genetic disorders such as Biotinidase deficiency, Multiple carboxylase deficiency, and Holocarboxylase synthetase deficiency can also lead to inborn or late-onset forms of biotin deficiency. In all cases – dietary, genetic, or otherwise – supplementation with biotin is the primary method of treatment.
6 Signs of Biotin Deficiency. Biotin is a form of Vitamin B complex, and it is a crucial vitamin required for synthesizing carbohydrates and fatty acids in the human body. This vitamin is manufactured from food by bacteria that is present in the intestinal track of the body. Skin inflammation is one of the common symptoms of biotin deficiency. The common form of dermatitis that is found in people who are suffering from biotin deficiency is seborrhoeic dermatitis.