The Hollyhock (whose scientific name is Althea rosea) is not listed as a poisonous plant for humans or animals. Keywords: Hollyhock, Althea rosea, poisonous.
Hollyhocks add a splash of color to your garden. Hollyhocks (Alcea rosea) are herbaceous biennials that can grow outdoors in most of the country, primarily in U.S. Department of Agriculture plant hardiness zones 2 through 10. With their showy, colorful flowers, hollyhocks add a bit of Old World charm
Hollyhocks (Alcea rosea) are herbaceous biennials that can grow outdoors in most of the country, primarily in U.S. Department of Agriculture plant hardiness zones 2 through 10. With their showy, colorful flowers, hollyhocks add a bit of Old World charm to your garden.
Hollyhocks are not considered poisonous if ingested by your dog. Unfortunately, they can cause dermatitis in both pets and people when touched, warns Poisonous Plants of California..
Even though hollyhocks are not found to be poisonous to dogs, any plant material a dog ingests has the potential to make the animal sick to its stomach. Finding the reason why your dog is eating plants and training it not to chew on them will help prevent the animal from ingesting a plant that is poisonous.
Although hollyhocks are considered nontoxic to dogs, there are some anecdotal reports of dogs becoming ill after ingesting the roots of the plants. For the sake of your pooch, if Fido enjoys digging, you might want to keep the pup away from your hollyhocks, surrounding them with fencing.
Growing up to a height of 6 feet, hollyhocks are planted as a border plant. The hollyhock also self seeds, creating masses of the plant growing in one area. MisconceptionsThe hollyhock plants have no toxic properties and will not poison dogs.
Cats are carnivores that eat primarily meat. However, they occasionally eat grass because it aids their digestion. Cats cannot differentiate between safe and toxic greens and may ingest poisonous plants. Fortunately, hollyhocks are not poisonous to cats and safe to plant in the garden.