As of 2015, Z-Wave is supported by over 325 manufacturers worldwide and appears in a broad range of consumer and commercial products in the US, Europe and Asia. The lower layers, MAC and PHY, are described by ITU-T G.9959 and fully backwards compatible. Z-Wave works in the industrial, scientific, and medical (ISM) band on a single frequency using frequency-shift keying (FSK) radio. The throughput is up to 100 kbit/s (9600 bit/s using older series chips) and suitable for control and sensor applications.
Z-Wave is designed to provide reliable, low-latency transmission of small data packets at data rates up to 100kbit/s, unlike Wi-Fi and other IEEE 802.11 -based wireless LAN systems that are designed primarily for high data rates. Z-Wave operates in the sub-gigahertz frequency range, around 900 MHz. This band competes with some cordless telephones and other consumer electronics devices, but avoids interference with Wi-Fi, Bluetooth and other systems that operate on the crowded 2.4 GHz band. Z-Wave works in the industrial, scientific, and medical (ISM) band on a single frequency using frequency-shift keying (FSK) radio. The throughput is up to 100 kbit/s (9600 bit/s using older series chips) and suitable for control and sensor applications.
The ZigBee and Z-Wave short-range wireless technologies are used for remote monitoring and control. However, their specifications and applications are different. Summary. ZigBee and Z-Wave target the same general applications. Of the two, ZigBee is by far the more versatile since it can be configured for virtually any short-range wireless task. Profiles are readily available to minimize development time for common
The advantage of using a sub 1GHz frequency is that Z-Wave is less interference prone compared to ZigBee, although in a normal home environment, both should work just fine. The other thing that differs between ZigBee and Z-Wave is the transmission range. We’ve generally found ZigBee to offer better range than Z-Wave, regardless of the higher frequency which should technically mean shorter range. Z-Wave is in general rated at 30m/100 ft vs 100m/330 ft for ZigBee, both in an open space. Both technologies allow for range extenders to be used
Z-Wave. Compared to WiFi and ZigBee, Z-Wave is a new kid on the block, born in the late 2000s, thanks to work by several new tech companies creating a standard for an even more limited set of products. Even more recently, it was adopted as a new G.9959 standard by the International Telecommunications Union. 
Because Z-Wave operates apart from the 2.4 GHz frequency of 802.11 based wireless systems, it is largely impervious to interference from common household wireless electronics, such as Wi-Fi routers, cordless telephones and Bluetooth devices that work in the same frequency range. 
It also means that Z-Wave devices have a greater signal range. The range of a Z-Wave device is influenced by a number of factors, first being the presence of walls in the vicinity. (More: Locating Home Automation Devices). Typical reported ranges are around 30 meters (90 feet) indoors and 100 meters (300 feet) in the open air. Extending the normal range of these products is possible simply by adding more Z-Wave devices to the network. Z-Wave Operating Characteristics. Z-Wave devices don't use the same frequency as other home devices like wireless phones, which typically operate at 2.4 Ghz. The frequency used by Z-Wave varies based on country; however, in the United States Z-Wave operates at 908.42 Mhz.
For a given power level of 0 dBm, Z-Wave’s range is greater than ZigBee simply because the lower operating frequency supports it with pure physics (Friis formula). That also translates into a more reliable connection in some applications. Summary. ZigBee and Z-Wave target the same general applications. Of the two, ZigBee is by far the more versatile since it can be configured for virtually any short-range wireless task. Profiles are readily available to minimize development time for common