1 If you do not take your lisinopril-hydrochlorothiazide as scheduled, take your next dose as soon as you remember. 2  If it is almost time for the next scheduled dose, skip the missed one and continue with normal dosing. 3  Do not take a double dose.
Some general considerations for when and how to take lisinopril-hydrochlorothiazide include the following: 1  Lisinopril-hydrochlorothiazide comes in tablet form that is taken once a day. 2  It does not matter if you take the medication with or without food. 3  Take lisinopril-hydrochlorothiazide at the same time each day. 4  For ...
1 Take lisinopril-hydrochlorothiazide at the same time each day. 2  This will help to maintain an even level of the medicine in your blood. 3  For lisinopril-hydrochlorothiazide to work properly, you have to take it as prescribed. 4  The medication will not work if you stop taking it.
If you do not take your lisinopril as scheduled, take your next dose as soon as you remember. If it is almost time for the next scheduled dose, skip the missed one and continue with normal dosing. Do not take a double dose of the medication.
It does not matter what time of day you take lisinopril, but you should make sure to take it at the same time each day to maintain an even level of the medication in your blood. For lisinopril to work properly, you have to take it as prescribed.
The combination of lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide comes as a tablet to take by mouth. It is usually taken once a day with or without food. To help you remember to take lisinopril and hydrochlorothiazide, take it around the same time every day.
You should take hydrochlorothiazide at the same time each day to maintain an even level of the medication in your blood. However, some people do not need to take it every day, especially people taking it for fluid retention.
I take 10mg of lexapro per day, plus 25mg of Hydrocklorothiazide, 50mg of Atenolol and 20mg of Lisinopril. When I started to take the Lisinopril, I would wake up in the middle of the night with my heart racing and feeling as if I had a panic attach.
A: Zestril/Prinivil (lisinopril) can be taken at any time of day, but it is best if it is taken around the same time each day. It does not matter if it is taken with food, but if it is easier to remember with a certain meal, it is fine to take it that way. It can be taken with other medications too.
1 Take lisinopril-hydrochlorothiazide at the same time each day to maintain even levels of medicine in the blood. 2  For lisinopril-hydrochlorothiazide to work properly, you have to take it as prescribed. 3  The medication will not work if you take it in a way other than that prescribed by your healthcare provider.