Foods Indigenous to the Western Hemisphere. Ramps. Allium tricoccum. Wild leek, wild garlic, By Scott Sheu. A cousin of the onion, leek, and garlic plant, the ramp is an equally stinky plant that has found increasing popularity in the American diet. The name “ramp” comes from its similarity to an English plant called the “ransom” (Allium ursinus) which was called “ramson” in earlier times.
Allium tricoccum, wild leek and ramp are all names for a tasty, edible plant that is a close relative of the onion. Its bulb is often substituted for onions and scallions in recipes. Its leaves and flowers may also be eaten and make an interesting addition to salads. The best time to transplant Allium tricoccum is in early spring at the beginning of its growing season. Planting large bulbs (more than 1/2 inch in diameter) can provide ramps that you can harvest in two to three years. Dig the Allium tricoccum from their current location. Use a spade to loosen the soil a few inches on either side of each bulb. Then grab the plant at the base of its stem and gently pull it out of the soil.
Allium tricoccum is a BULB growing to 0.3 m (1ft) by 0.2 m (0ft 8in). It is hardy to zone (UK) 6 and is not frost tender. It is in leaf 6-Mar It is in flower from Jun to July. Since there are at least two recognized species of Allium tricoccum and the plant can be propagated by seeds, it is possible to have several varieties. This is based on the fact that since the plant can be propagated by bulbs, this method would product the true species.
Description. Allium tricoccum, commonly known as ramps or wild leeks, is a perennial bulb of the onion family. It can be easily recognized by its elliptical basal leaves that are up to 10 long, and up to 3 1/2 wide, and their onion-like aroma. Allium tricoccum is an easy to grow, cool climate species, native to deciduous forests of the Appalachian mountains, and northwestward towards the upper Great Lakes. Ramps do best when planted in areas that will receive plenty of sun during late winter and early spring, and will be in full shade during summer.
Allium tricoccum is the plant we call a ramp, also known as a wild leek, wild onion, or garlic of the woods in French-Canadian (“ail des bois”). As the season’s first greens, ramps are sought-after and celebrated for their potent flavor and ephemeral nature. 
Allium tricoccum (commonly known as ramp, ramps, spring onion, ramson, wild leek, wood leek, and wild garlic) is a North American species of wild onion widespread across eastern Canada and the eastern United States. Many of these English names are used for other Allium species, particularly Allium ursinum. Allium tricoccum is popular in the cuisines of the rural uplands of its native region. It is regarded as an early spring vegetable with a strong garlic-like odor and a pronounced onion flavor. Ramps also have a growing popularity in restaurants throughout North America
Allium tricoccum, better known as wild leek or ramps, is native to moist deciduous forests of eastern North America. 
Allium tricoccum is a bulb-forming perennial with broad, smooth, light green leaves, often with deep purple or burgundy tints on the lower stems, and a scallion-like stalk and bulb. Allium tricoccum is popular in the cuisines of the rural uplands of its native region. It is regarded as an early spring vegetable with a strong garlic-like odor and a pronounced onion flavor. Ramps also have a growing popularity in restaurants throughout North America