Levels of certain hormones, such as those produced by the thyroid gland, can be factors in depression. In addition, some symptoms of depression are associated with thyroid conditions. The same is true about conditions related to the menstrual cycle, such as premenstrual syndrome (PMS), perimenopause, and menopause. Symptoms that may indicate hyperthyroidism include: 1  enlarged thyroid gland. 2  inability to tolerate heat. 3  infrequent, scant menstrual periods. 4  irritability or nervousness. 5  muscle weakness or tremors. 6  sleep disturbances. 7  vision problems or eye irritation. 8  weight loss.
Symptoms of an overactive thyroid gland are generally symptoms of an increased metabolism. These can include weight loss, nervousness or anxiety, irritability, a racing heart, increased bowel movements, sweating, sleeplessness, hand tremors, and muscle weakness. 1  Previous. 2  Continue. In addition to fatigue and weight gain, symptoms can include depression, constipation, sluggishness, dry skin and dry hair, and muscle cramps. Some people develop an enlarged thyroid, which leads to a swelling in the front of the neck known as a goiter.. 1  Previous.
When the thyroid produces too much hormone, the body uses energy faster than it should. This condition, overactive thyroid, is called hyperthyroidism. Symptoms that may indicate hyperthyroidism include: 1  enlarged thyroid gland. 2  inability to tolerate heat. 3  infrequent, scant menstrual periods. 4  irritability or nervousness. 5  muscle weakness or tremors. 6  sleep disturbances. 7  vision problems or eye irritation. 8  weight loss.
1. Dramatic Weight Fluctuations. Weight fluctuations are one of the most common signs of thyroid problems. Perhaps someone is trying to lose weight, but despite his best efforts, he is unsuccessful, or maybe a person is trying to gain some much needed weight, but just can’t. It is unlikely that emotional problems are the only symptom that someone with a thyroid condition will experience, so if someone has no other symptoms, chances are that the depression or anxiety is unrelated.
Hyperthyroidism-. State in which your thyroid gland is active more than required is overactive thyroid which is also called Hyperthyroidism. Detection of Hyperthyroidism for Thyroid Care can be done by testing T3, T4 and TSH.
The above symptoms of hormonal imbalance in women can indicate any one of the conditions of menopause and her ugly sisters (perimenopause and postmenopause), surgical menopause, thyroid health and adrenal fatigue. But regardless of condition, these symptoms could mean that you have a hormone imbalance. 
Thyroid Hormone Imbalance Symptoms. Thyroid gland is located in the neck and below the Adam’s apple. This gland is responsible for the production and releasing of hormones that are used to regulate growth, metabolism, energy and the utilization of vitamins. 
The thyroid gland is a small gland in your neck that produces hormones that regulate how you use energy. Thyroid hormones influence how your organ systems perform: how fast or how slow they consume oxygen, produce proteins, and respond to other hormones. In addition to fatigue and weight gain, symptoms can include depression, constipation, sluggishness, dry skin and dry hair, and muscle cramps. Some people develop an enlarged thyroid, which leads to a swelling in the front of the neck known as a goiter.. 1  Previous.
Symptoms of unbalanced thyroid. Thyroid is a butterfly shaped gland. One of the key glands, it maintains our health and handles diseases like heart, obesity etc. Thyroid gland produces two kinds of hormones which are known as thyroxine and triodothyronine. Thyroid gland and Thyroid care decides how much fat and carbohydrates would be used by our body. State in which your thyroid gland is active more than required is overactive thyroid which is also called Hyperthyroidism. Detection of Hyperthyroidism for Thyroid Care can be done by testing T3, T4 and TSH.