Also called the throat, the pharynx is the portion of the digestive tract that receives the food from your mouth. Branching off the pharynx is the esophagus, which carries food to the stomach, and the trachea or windpipe, which carries air to the lungs. Stop 2: The Pharynx and Esophagus. Also called the throat, the pharynx is the portion of the digestive tract that receives the food from your mouth. Branching off the pharynx is the esophagus, which carries food to the stomach, and the trachea or windpipe, which carries air to the lungs. 1 | 2 | 3 | 4.
It makes up the part of the throat situated immediately posterior to the nasal cavity, posterior to the mouth and superior to the esophagus and larynx. The human pharynx is conventionally divided into three sections: the nasopharynx, the oropharynx and the laryngopharynx. It is also important in vocalization. The upper portion of the pharynx, the nasopharynx, extends from the base of the skull to the upper surface of the soft palate. It includes the space between the internal nares and the soft palate and lies above the oral cavity.
The word throat is used for the parts of the neck anterior to the vertebral column, especially the pharynx and the larynx. The pharynx is the part of the digestive system situated posterior to the nasal and oral cavities and posterior to the larynx. It is therefore divisible into nasal, oral, and laryngeal parts: the (1) nasopharynx, (2) oropharynx, and (3) laryngopharynx. 
The PHARYNX is a fibromuscular tube which extends from the base of the skull to the lower border of the cricoid cartilage (at which point it becomes the esophagus). Portions of the pharynx lie posterior to the nasal cavity (nasal pharynx), oral cavity (oral pharynx) and larynx (laryngeal pharynx). The muscular walls of the pharynx are comprised of an outer layer made up of 3 circularly disposed muscles, the CONSTRICTORS.
The pharynx is the part of the throat that lies between the mouth and the larynx or voice box. pharynx. the throat; the musculomembranous cavity, about 5 inches (12.5 cm) long, behind the nasal cavities, mouth, and larynx, communicating with them and with the esophagus.
pharynx. the throat; the musculomembranous crossroads of the digestive and respiratory systems, found behind the nasal cavities and mouth, and rostral to the larynx and esophagus. pharynx. the throat; the musculomembranous cavity, about 5 inches (12.5 cm) long, behind the nasal cavities, mouth, and larynx, communicating with them and with the
In humans the pharynx is part of the digestive system and also of the conducting zone of the respiratory system. The conducting zone also includes the nose, larynx, trachea, bronchi, and bronchioles, and their function is to filter, warm, and moisten air and conduct it into the lungs. The upper portion of the pharynx, the nasopharynx, extends from the base of the skull to the upper surface of the soft palate. It includes the space between the internal nares and the soft palate and lies above the oral cavity.
The epiglottis is a flexible flap at the superior end of the larynx in the throat. It acts as a switch between the larynx and the esophagus to permit air to enter the airway to the lungs and food to pass into the gastrointestinal tract. In its relaxed position, the epiglottis projects into the pharynx, or throat, and rests just posterior to the tongue. Viewed from the posterior direction, it is shaped like a teardrop with a wide, rounded region at the superior end and a narrow tapered point at its inferior end....
Definition of Pharynx. The pharynx is the body cavity that connects the nasal and oral cavities with the larynx and esophagus. It is commonly referred to as the throat. The pharynx is part of both the digestive and respiratory systems. The pharyngeal tonsils, or adenoids, are located on the posterior wall of the nasopharynx. The oropharynx is behind the soft palate of the mouth and is below the nasopharynx. It serves as a passageway for food moving from the mouth to the esophagus and for air moving to and from the nasal cavity.