As the new substance is formed, observable changes take place — a change in temperature or colour, the formation of a visible gas or new solid, or perhaps even just an odour. Reactants and products The new substances that are formed during a chemical reaction are called the products. When fuels such as petrol are burned in motor vehicles, energy is released and used to keep the vehicle in motion. Burning is a chemical reaction in which fuel reacts with oxygen, producing carbon dioxide, water and several other products.The energy released comes from the rearrangement of atoms.
Inside the airbag is a gas generator containing a mixture of NaN3, KNO3, and SiO2. When the car undergoes a head-on collision, a series of three chemical reactions inside the gas generator produce gas (N2) to fill the airbag and convert NaN3, which is highly toxic, to harmless glass. Sodium azide (NaN3) can decompose at 300oC to produce sodium metal (Na) and nitrogen gas (N2). A typical airbag contains 50.0 g of sodium azide, NaN3. Upon impact, the airbag deploys and inflates within 40 milliseconds to a volume of about 60 L, at a velocity between 150 and 250 mph. The airbag inflates due to the decomposition reaction of NaN3 and fills with nitrogen gas in the following reaction:
The goal of an airbag is to slow the passenger's forward motion as evenly as possible in a fraction of a second. There are three parts to an airbag that help to accomplish this feat: 1  The bag itself is made of a thin, nylon fabric, which is folded into the steering wheel or dashboard or, more recently, the seat or door. 2  The sensor is the device that tells the bag to inflate. The inflation system uses a solid propellant and an igniter. They needed a way to set off a chemical reaction that would produce the nitrogen that would inflate the bag. Small solid-propellant inflators came to the rescue in the 1970s.
When the car undergoes a head-on collision, a series of three chemical reactions inside the gas generator produce gas (N 2) to fill the airbag and convert NaN 3, which is highly toxic (The maximum concentration of NaN 3 allowed in the workplace is 0.2 mg/m 3 air.), to harmless glass (Table 1). The road from that idea to the airbags we have today has been long, and it has involved many turnabouts in the vision for what airbags would be expected to do. Today, airbags are mandatory in new cars and are designed to act as a supplemental safety device in addition to a seat belt.
1.Make a list of the chemicals (and their chemical formulas) involved in airbag deployment based on the reading in the links below. 2.Sort the chemicals in two ways: (a.) by the reaction in which they are involved (reaction 1, 2 or 3), and (b.) by which side of the equation they're on (reactant or product side). 
1 Write a balanced chemical equation for the first reaction in the airbag gas generator (the decomposition of NaN 3). 2  Write a balanced equation for the net gas-generating reactions (the combination of the first and second reactions). The road from that idea to the airbags we have today has been long, and it has involved many turnabouts in the vision for what airbags would be expected to do. Today, airbags are mandatory in new cars and are designed to act as a supplemental safety device in addition to a seat belt.
A rapid reaction occurs, generating nitrogen gas (N 2). This gas fills a nylon or polyamide bag at a velocity of 150 to 250 miles per hour. This process, from the initial impact of the crash to full inflation of the airbags, takes only about 40 milliseconds (Movie 1). Ideally, the body of the driver (or passenger) should not hit the airbag while it is still inflating. The road from that idea to the airbags we have today has been long, and it has involved many turnabouts in the vision for what airbags would be expected to do. Today, airbags are mandatory in new cars and are designed to act as a supplemental safety device in addition to a seat belt.
So, to explain what airbags actually do when an accident occurs, let’s use an example of a typical head-on collision. *From this point forward, we will use the driver side airbag as our example and explain the way an airbag works. Figures are given as a reference. So, to explain what airbags actually do when an accident occurs, let´s use an example of a typical head-on collision.(*Frome
Air bags are not inflated from some compressed gas source but rather from the products of a chemical reaction. The chemical at the heart of the air bag reaction is called sodium azide, or NaN. Image: NEW CAR ASSESSMENT PROGRAM, CRASH TEST AREA. CRASHES trip sensors in cars that send an electric signal to an ignitor. Although we don't usually associate automobiles with chemistry, a lot of chemistry takes place in a working car--the burning of gasoline to run the engine, for example, and chemical reactions in the battery to generate electricity.
Chemical Reactions Used to Generate the Gas Inside the airbag is a gas generator containing a mixture of NaN 3, KNO 3, and SiO 2. When the car undergoes a head-on collision, a series of three chemical reactions occur inside the gas generator. Hence, less serious injuries will occur. In summary, an airbag lowers the number of injuries by (1) increasing the time over which the decelerating force is applied and thus lowers the force exerted (by the steering wheel or dash board) on the body, and (2) by spreading the force over a larger area of the body.