Until recently, patients in the U.S. suffering from idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF), a form of pulmonary fibrosis in which the cause is unknown, had no drug treatment approved by FDA for this debilitating, incurable, and terminal condition. However, this month, FDA approved Ofev (nintedanib) and Esbriet (pirfenidone) , two important new therapies for the treatment of patients with IPF. Both drugs are “first-in-class” products that offer new hope for patients in the U.S. with IPF.
Continue reading the main story. Continue reading the main story. The first two drugs that can slow the progression of a fatal lung disease won approval from the Food and Drug Administration on Wednesday, a decision that could open a new era for patients but also a new chapter in the controversy over high drug prices. A version of this article appears in print on October 16, 2014, on page B3 of the New York edition with the headline: F.D.A. Approves First 2 Drugs for Treatment of a Fatal Lung Disease.
FDA approves inhaler drug for lung disease. The Food and Drug Administration says it has approved a new once-a-day inhaler drug from GlaxoSmithKline for patients with chronic lung disease. Post to Facebook
20 CONNECT 172 TWEET 3 LINKEDIN 1 COMMENT EMAIL MORE. WASHINGTON (AP) — The Food and Drug Administration says it has approved a new once-a-day inhaler drug from GlaxoSmithKline for patients with chronic lung disease. Post to Facebook.
By Robert Preidt. HealthDay Reporter. WEDNESDAY, Dec. 18, 2013 (HealthDay News) -- A new inhaled drug to treat a serious lung condition called chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) has been approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. 
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has approved a new medication, Stiolto Respimat, to treat chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). 
The following database contains a listing of drugs approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for sale in the United States. Drug information typically includes the drug name, approval status, indication of use, and clinical trial results. 
Release. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration today approved Esbriet (pirfenidone) for the treatment of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF). Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis is a condition in which the lungs become progressively scarred over time. 
Roche's Esbriet and Boehringer Ingelheim's Ofev were approved Wednesday by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for treatment of people with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, The New York Times reported. It's very exciting to have two approved therapies now for a disease for which there were no approved therapies, Daniel Rose, chief executive of the Pulmonary Fibrosis Foundation, told The Times. There's a lot of enthusiasm and excitement within the patient community, he added.
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration has just announced the approval of a form of new long-term treatment for patients suffering from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). The new treatment is an inhaler drug called Breo Ellipta (fluticasone furoate and vilanterol inhalation powder). It is also approved for the treatment of exacerbations in COPD patients. COPD is a form of lung disease that progressively gets worse, it is characterized by the occurrence of chronic bronchitis or emphysema (a pair of co-existing diseases that narrow the airways).