The name Wallis is an Anglo-Saxon baby name. In Anglo-Saxon the meaning of the name Wallis is: Stranger. English Meaning: The name Wallis is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Wallis is: From Wales. Teutonic Meaning: The name Wallis is a Teutonic baby name. In Teutonic the meaning of the name Wallis is: From Wales. SoulUrge Number: 1. Expression Number: 22. People with this name have a deep inner desire to use their abilities in leadership, and to have personal independence.
What does Wallis mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Wallis is of German origin. The meaning of Wallis is from wales. It is also of English origin, where its meaning is foreign, celtic, welshman. Wallis is used as both a boys and girls name. It consists of 6 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Wa-llis. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 12911 in baby name popularity for girls with 8 occurrences.
Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Wallis Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Wallis has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Wallis to other names. Wallis is a variant spelling of Wallace. Wallis has the diminutive (nickname) Wally. Wallis is used as both a boys and girls name. It consists of 6 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Wa-llis. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 12911 in baby name popularity for girls with 8 occurrences.
Recorded in the spellings of Wallace, Wallice, Walles, Wallis and Wallas, and first recorded in England, the surname derivation is from the Norman French word 'waleis', meaning a 'foreigner'. The inhabitants of this region were known as 'walensis', and it was here that Sir William Wallace was born. The surname is first recorded in England in the mid 12th Century (see below), and early recordings include Robert Walleis in the Pipe Rolls of Norfolk, in the year circa 1168.
Meaning of Wallis. Scottish name. In Scottish, the name Wallis means-Feminine form of Wallace: Welshman; stranger. Famous Bearer: Scottish hero Sir William Wallace (executed in 1305).Welshman; stranger.. Other origins for the name Wallis include-Scottish, English, English, English.The name Wallis is most often used as a girl name or female name. Scottish Name Meaning-Feminine form of Wallace: Welshman; stranger. Famous Bearer: Scottish hero Sir William Wallace (executed in 1305).Welshman; stranger. Origin-Scottish
The first recorded spelling of the family name is shown to be that of Osbert Waleis, which was dated circa 1156, in the Book of Seals of Warwickshire. This was during the reign of King Henry 11nd of England, and known as The Builder of Churches, 1154 - 1189. The inhabitants of this region were known as 'walensis', and it was here that Sir William Wallace was born. The surname is first recorded in England in the mid 12th Century (see below), and early recordings include Robert Walleis in the Pipe Rolls of Norfolk, in the year circa 1168.
References. The Wallis Family Crest was acquired from the Houseofnames.com archives. The Wallis Family Crest was drawn according to heraldic standards based on published blazons. We generally include the oldest published family crest once associated with each surname. This page was last modified on 30 August 2015 at 20:25. 
Wallace /wal-lace/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced WAL-iss. It is of Old French origin, and the meaning of Wallace is Welshman. From waleis. Originally a Scottish surname which refers to foreigners from the south. Popular as a given name in the 19th century. 
Wallis /wal-lis/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name (also used as boys' name Wallis) is of Old English origin, and the meaning of Wallis is from Wales. Variant of Wallace. Made famous by Wallis Simpson, the woman who wanted to be queen of England, but became Duchess of Windsor instead. Kreatif forms: Warlis, Wilis. Wallis is an uncommonly occurring first name for females but a very prominent last name for all people (#2929 out of 150436, Top 2%). (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the birth name popularity of Wallis for girl