Petra (Greek πέτρα (petra), meaning rock; Arabic: البتراء, Al-Batrāʾ) is a historic and archaeological city in the Jordanian governorate of Ma'an that has rock cut architecture and water conduits system. 
Petra ReDiscovered. Petra means rock in Greek, fitting for a town literally carved out of sandstone desert cliffs. It is located about three hours south of Amman, the capital of Jordan, and was founded by a nomadic Arab tribe known as the Nabataeans several centuries before Christ's birth. There the Nabataeans built temples and tombs, houses and halls, altars and aquaducts. And they built a civilization that stood at the crossroads of the ancient Near East, a center for commerce as the spice routes and trading trails of the time all flowed through Petra.
The sun hits a monument known as Ad Deir, or the Monastery, in Petra, Jordan, during the winter solstice in 2007. Photograph by Katherine Kiviat, Redux. An ancient civilization built the famous, stone-hewn city of Petra so that the sun would illuminate their sacred places like celestial spotlights, a new study says. Though the results are intriguing, it's tough to prove that the Nabateans deliberately built their city with the sky in mind, noted Krupp and Aveni, who were not part of the study. For one, knowledge of Nabataean traditions and ideology is limited, mostly because the culture left very few written documents.
How Petra was Built. From the time of its modern discovery in 1812, Petra has been immortalized by artists, poets and filmmakers! The capital city of Petra (which means ‘rock’) lies in a natural basin that accessed water through a permanent tract. The area was prone to flooding and the city dwellers used dams, wells, cisterns and water conduits to direct and store water
The ancient city of Petra was literally carved from the sandstone cliffs of southern Jordan. There the Nabataeans built temples and tombs, houses and halls, altars and aquaducts. And they built a civilization that stood at the crossroads of the ancient Near East, a center for commerce as the spice routes and trading trails of the time all flowed through Petra.
Petra was built around 6th century BCE and it was built by the Nabataeans. There is not a definitive answer as to when Petra was built. Scholars believe that it could have be … en constructed as early as the third century B.C. 19 people found this useful. The Nabataea's built Petra because they believed in sun gods and worshipped them. Sun God Dushara and Sun Goddess Allat. They wanted to impress the sun gods so they built such … a detailed city and made history.
Life at Petra. Petra was built on an important point on the trading route between Asia and Arabia. Because of this, Petra was a cosmopolitan and cultivated city that was well sustained by commerce, agriculture and water. From the time of its modern discovery in 1812, Petra has been immortalized by artists, poets and filmmakers! The capital city of Petra (which means ‘rock’) lies in a natural basin that accessed water through a permanent tract.
At its peak the city of Petra was home to some 20,000 Nabataeans who, in the midst of the desert, built an ingenious system of waterways to provide their city with the precious liquid. There the Nabataeans built temples and tombs, houses and halls, altars and aquaducts. And they built a civilization that stood at the crossroads of the ancient Near East, a center for commerce as the spice routes and trading trails of the time all flowed through Petra.
Petra was built around 6th century BCE and it was built by the Nabataeans. There is not a definitive answer as to when Petra was built. Petra, the ancient city of stone, is in Jordan. Petra is also  called Rose City, for the color of the carved stone. A UNESCO World  Heritage Site since 1985, Petra is Jordan … 's most-visited tourist  site.
Petra (Arabic: البترا, Al-Batrāʾ; Ancient Greek: πέτρα) is a historical and archaeological city in the southern Jordanian governorate of Ma'an that is famous for its rock-cut architecture and water conduit system. Another name for Petra is the Rose City due to the color of the stone out of which it is carved. It lies on the slope of Jebel al-Madhbah (identified by some as the biblical Mount Hor) in a basin among the mountains which form the eastern flank of Arabah (Wadi Araba), the large valley running from the Dead Sea to the Gulf of Aqaba. Petra has been a UNESCO World Heritage Site since 1985.