It is believed that most of castor oil's benefits are derived from its high concentration of unsaturated fatty acids. Although it has a strong and rather unpleasant taste, castor oil is used in cosmetics, soaps, textiles, medicines, massage oils and many other everyday products.
The medicinal and therapeutic benefits of the oil make it a favourite across various industries. The uses of castor oil are many for skin, hair and health. It also happens to be one of the most widely-used ingredients in various cosmetics, soaps, textiles, massage oils and even medicines.
About. Known for its plethora of benefits and uses, castor oil is a vegetable oil squeezed out from the seeds of castor plant, Ricinus communis, found in Africa and India. But use of castor oil is limited not only to India, it is used all over the world for its medicinal properties.
28 Wonderful castor oil benefits and uses for beauty, hair and health. Castor oil is often overlooked as a health and beauty treatment and is often only thought of as a remedy for constipation, but it has a long history of being used for many other healing and beauty enhancing treatments too.
Uses. Castor oil is used to treat constipation. It may also be used to clean out the intestines before a bowel examination/surgery. Castor oil is known as a stimulant laxative. It works by increasing the movement of the intestines, helping the stool to come out.
Successful studies have approved the use of Castor Oil for skin infections and other skin problems such as sunburn, abrasions, acne, dry skin, boils, warts, stretch marks, liver/age spots, athletes foot and chronic itching and inflamed skin.
Castor oil is used to treat constipation. It may also be used to clean out the intestines before a bowel examination/surgery. Castor oil is known as a stimulant laxative. It works by increasing the movement of the intestines, helping the stool to come out.
The benefits of castor oil are related to inflammation, digestion, and circulation. While there are many health benefits of castor oil, there is also a caution that when not properly used it can cause medical problems and in rare cases even death.
Castor oil is very effective remedy for constipation. As it is very strong laxative, taking a teaspoon of castor oil in the morning will relieve constipation, though the regular consumption of castor oil may result in adverse health effects.