Create a competitive package to offer the employee. You might include profit sharing, benefits, bonuses and incentives. Don’t forget about benefits such as telecommuting for part of the workweek and a flexible work schedule when you make the salary offer -- these perks can be attractive to prospective employees. Step 1. Consider information you have from the prospective employee about salary requirements. If you asked the employee what salary she would accept and she gave you a range or a specific number, use this information to help determine the salary you will offer.
SHRM's 2004 Benefits Survey shows that 90 percent of respondents offer paid bereavement leave. Usually, employees are allowed three days off with pay, and no pay for any additional time, unless employees arrange to use personal days or vacation time. Advanced notice for a bereavement leave is not required. Some employers' plans offer a specific amount of days for each form of PTO, while others, particularly in the healthcare and financial industries, provide one set amount of paid days off that can be used for various reasons at the employee's discretion.
For example, an employer that employs 40 full-time employees (that is, employees employed 30 or more hours per week on average) and 20 employees employed 15 hours per week on average has the equivalent of 50 full-time employees, and would be an applicable large employer. For purposes of the Employer Shared Responsibility provisions, an employee is a full-time employee for a calendar month if he or she averages at least 30 hours of service per week (or 130 hours of service per month).
1 Credibility. 2  Without wage and salary data, it's impossible to know that you offer pay that is fair in relation to other employers. 3  If your employees begin to feel underpaid, you won't be able to tell them, with confidence, that they're not. 4  Threat of unionization. 1 At the lower end of the pay scale, turnover can be high and makes it necessary to keep on top of who's getting paid what in the field where your employees work. 2  Credibility. 3
Since salary constitutes wages at straight time for all hours worked, the employer owes an additional half-time for the hours in excess of 40 in a week. An example follows: Example: A non-exempt employee is paid a salary of $500 per week, and works 50 hours in a given week. Since the agreement is just that the employee will be paid a $500 salary, that sum would cover any number of hours worked. The regular rate for this week is the salary ($500) divided by the 50 hours worked, or $10.00. 
With the exception of wages and salaries, employee benefits are the primary tools by which employers attract and retain qualified personnel for their organizations. Most employers voluntarily provide a variety of benefit packages. Most California employees participate in the State Disability Insurance Plan (SDI), which they pay through payroll deduction. All California employers are required to offer paid sick leave to their employees per the requirements of AB 1522 (Gonzalez,Chapter 317, Statutes of 2014).
Unless you are an employer in Hawaii, you are not required by state law to offer your employees health insurance benefits. Hawaii is the first state to require employers to provide health insurance to employees. Benefits are a critical piece of an employee compensation package, and health care benefits are the crown jewel. Health care benefits, along with time-off benefits, are the most popular of benefits to employees.
1 You can offer employees something that increases their compensation package and yet allows you an income tax deduction for the contribution, so that your out-of-pocket cost is less than the value of the benefit to the employee. Benefits are a critical piece of an employee compensation package, and health care benefits are the crown jewel. Health care benefits, along with time-off benefits, are the most popular of benefits to employees.
Make a salary offer to a new employee, presenting your offer in a way that will encourage the prospective employee to accept. Step 1. Consider information you have from the prospective employee about salary requirements. If you asked the employee what salary she would accept and she gave you a range or a specific number, use this information to help determine the salary you will offer. Step 2. Research comparable companies in your geographic region to learn what employees working for other companies earn