Alloys. Some metals that are normally paramagnetic or ferromagnetic are only weakly magnetic when mixed to make an alloy. Some stainless steels, for example, contain iron but are not magnetic. These alloys are not attracted to magnets. The atoms or molecules of a diamagnetic substance do not have net dipole moments, so they do not act as magnets. A diamagnetic substance is pushed out of a magnetic field, but with most materials the force is so weak you won't be able to observe it in everyday life.
Only a few metals are magnetic, most aren't. The common magnetic elements are iron, nickel, and cobalt. These metals, and a lot of their alloys, are magnetic. Aluminum, for example, is not. (Though Alnico -- an alloy of aluminum and the magnetic metals nickel and cobalt -- makes pretty strong magnets.). McFate · 8 years ago. Best Answer: generaly speaking magnets will not attract none ferious metals, aluminum, copper, brass, bronze and other such alloys, it will also not attract stainless steel that has a very high chromium level.
There are three types of metals that interact with magnetic fields. Ferromagnetic metals are strongly attracted to magnets. Paramagnetic metals are also attracted by a magnetic field, but the force of attraction is significantly weaker. In the presence of a strong magnet, diamagnetic metals induce a weak opposing magnetic field. Ferromagnetic metals are strongly attracted by a magnetic force. The common ferromagnetic metals are iron, nickel, cobalt, gadolinium, dysprosium and alloys such as steel that contain ferromagnetic metals. Ferromagnetic metals are commonly used to make permanent magnets.
Some metals a … re so magnetic that they can be made into magnets from extended contact with a magnet. 1 person found this useful. 1  How to Use a Smudge Stick Smudging sticks have been used for centuries for the purposes of cleansing homes, removing negative energy, and providing blessings to those who use them. Materials that are strongly attracted to magnets are called  ferromagnetic materials. As the name suggests, iron is one such  metal, but cobalt and nickel are also ferromagnetic, and gadolinium  is when cold.
Diamagnetic Metals. The term diamagnetic is a more technically accurate way of describing a material that is not attracted to a magnet. The atoms or molecules of a diamagnetic substance do not have net dipole moments, so they do not act as magnets. A diamagnetic substance is pushed out of a magnetic field, but with most materials the force is so weak you won't be able to observe it in everyday life. Diamagnetic metals include copper, silver and lead
Magnets are objects that produce magnetic fields and attract metals like iron, nickel and cobalt. The magnetic field's lines of force exit the magnet from its north pole and enter its south pole. Permanent or hard magnets create their own magnetic field all the time. 
In our everyday experience aluminum doesn't stick to magnets (neither does copper). The question of whether aluminum is magnetic is a bit more involved and depends what you mean by the term magnetic. 
Magnets strongly attract materials (like iron) which already themselves have magnetic domains. They do not significantly attract many metals like gold, aluminum, silver, and even some types of high-chromium stainless-steel, which lack such domains. In fact, pure gold is slightly repelled. Q: should a magnet stick to gold,i found two pieces of gold-colored metal on sticks to a magnet and one doesnt. - ononomis (age 11). fl. A: The one that sticks to the magnet is not gold. The other one also may not be, the magnetic test doesn't tell.
Silver is paramagnetic and exhibits only weak magnetic effects. If your magnet sticks strongly to the piece, it has a ferromagnetic core and is not silver. 1  Keep in mind that there are a few other metals that do not stick to a magnet and can be made to look like silver. 1 Keep in mind that there are a few other metals that do not stick to a magnet and can be made to look like silver. 2  It is better to perform the magnetic test in conjunction with another test to make sure the core is not another metal.