$193.43. Shade Cloth and Sun Shade Fabric ideal for patio shade cloth, canopy shade, garden shade cloth and outdoor shade fabric. Shade cloth or sun shade shadecloth is made from Knitted Polypropylene Shade Mesh. Shade cloth shade fabrics are widely used in shade sails, shade canopy, playset sun shade, agriculture greenhouse sun shade. Shadecloth is great for shading in sun shade applications. MyTarp.com's shade cloths are available in 70% and 80% shade percentage and Black Color or Green Color. 
Shade cloth fabric is available in densities ranging from 30% to 90% to suit the unique needs of different types of plants, flowers and crops. 
Home Shade Houses & Material. Shade cloth is manufactured from knitted polyethylene fabric that does not rot, mildew, or become brittle and can also be purchased in bulk and if you need it hemmed, we can do it. 
Knitted polyethylene shade cloth is far more versatile with hundreds of uses including greenhouse cover, wind break, deer and bird fencing, hail protection, porches and patio shade. It is available in multiple colors and it typically lasts from 7-10 years. Woven shade cloth is constructed from woven polypropylene. It is ideal for use on greenhouses and is typically 30% heavier than knitted polyethylene shade cloth.
Tweet. Shade Cloth, sometimes referred to as shade fabric, is often the ideal outdoor solution to create cover where you want protection from the sun or to provide some privacy. 
RED. S BLUE. Shade cloth is a lightweight knitted polyethylene fabric that provides plants and people with protection from the sun. Shade cloth fabric is available in densities ranging from 30% to 90% to suit the unique needs of different types of plants, flowers and crops. It can be used with greenhouses, hoop structures and in field applications. Additional uses include fences, windscreens and privacy barriers. Excellent climate characteristics include low daytime temperature due to maximum reflection and high energy savings at night, which keeps crop temperature close to ambient
Shade Cloth, Woven and Non-Woven. Woven shade cloth is constructed from woven polypropylene. It is ideal for use on greenhouses and is typically 30% heavier than knitted polyethylene shade cloth. It has the benefit of a longer lifespan of about 10-12 years
Shade Fabric. Knitted and coated shade fabric and shade cloth fabric. Shade cloth shading percentage: 50% to 90% UV block. Shade cloth resists mold and mildew. Sun shade fabric protects from heat and sun damage and reduce energy costs. Low Prices. IMPORTANT NOTE: Coolaroo shade fabric is shade fabric roll only. Shade fabric has NO grommets and NO hems. No hardware included with Coolaroo shade fabric rolls.