The City. Indio is one of the largest gateways to Joshua Tree National Park, where the Colorado and Mojave Deserts come together to form some of the most unique geological displays known to man. The City of Indio is located 130 miles east of Los Angeles, CA and it can be accessed from interstate 10
Latest news from Indio, CA collected exclusively by city-data.com from local newspapers, TV, and radio stations. Ancestries: German (5.0%), Irish (3.7%), English (3.4%), United States (1.9%), French (1.0%). For population 25 years and over in Indio: 1  High school or higher: 72.7%. 2  Bachelor's degree or higher: 19.5%. 3  Graduate or professional degree: 7.1%.
Indio, California The City of Festivals- is a popular destination for many summertime tourists, and with due reason. This idyllic city, located deep within California's Colorado Desert region, is known for being a haven for artists, musicians, and creative personas of all shades and sizes. Indio hosts a large number of annual festivals, ranging from local artist gatherings to one of the world's foremost pop music festivals. Indio, California, The City of Festivals, is a must visit destination for any lover of art, music, or more simply food. Settled deep within the natural beauty of the Coachella desert valley, any tourist would be hard pressed to not enjoy their time in Indio. Come check out Indio today!
Indio has a warm, dry climate. Known for 354 days of sunshine and less than 6 inches of rain annually, winter temperatures average in the 70s with nights in the mid-40s. The dry desert heat of summer pushes daytime temperatures to the 100s, a special joy to Europeans. Indio is one of the largest gateways to Joshua Tree National Park, where the Colorado and Mojave Deserts come together to form some of the most unique geological displays known to man. The City of Indio is located 130 miles east of Los Angeles, CA and it can be accessed from interstate 10
Indio is a city in Riverside County, California, United States, located in the Coachella Valley of Southern California 's Colorado Desert region. It lies 23 miles (37 km) east of Palm Springs, 77 miles (124 km) east of Riverside, and 127 miles (204 km) east of Los Angeles. It is about 98 miles (158 km) north of Mexicali, Baja California on the U.S.-Mexican border. The word Indio is Spanish for Indian. In the California State Legislature, Indio is in the 28th Senate District, represented by Republican Jeff Stone, and in the 56th Assembly District, represented by Democrat Eduardo Garcia.
The ratio of number of residents in Indio to the number of sex offenders is 1,086 to 1. The number of registered sex offenders compared to the number of residents in this city is near the state average. For population 25 years and over in Indio: 1  High school or higher: 72.7%. 2  Bachelor's degree or higher: 19.5%. 3  Graduate or professional degree: 7.1%.
Indio was once referred to as the Hub of the Valley, the Chamber of Commerce jingle in the 1970s, and today the jingle is the City of Festivals because of all the special events held in town. In the California State Legislature, Indio is in the 28th Senate District, represented by Republican Jeff Stone, and in the 56th Assembly District, represented by Democrat Eduardo Garcia.
Indio is located at the eastern end of the Coachella Valley, which is composed of nine cities: Desert Hot Springs, Palm Springs, Cathedral City, Rancho, Mirage, Palm Desert, Indian Wells, La Quinta, Palm Springs, and Coachella. Indio is one of the largest gateways to Joshua Tree National Park, where the Colorado and Mojave Deserts come together to form some of the most unique geological displays known to man. The City of Indio is located 130 miles east of Los Angeles, CA and it can be accessed from interstate 10