1 FALSE Mineral oil works as a barrier between the skin and the air. 2  It acts as an occlusive agent, which means it prevents water from leaving your body through your skin. 3  It will not dry out your skin or cause premature aging. 4  The truth is mineral oil is one of the best skin care ingredients available.
Mineral oil is an extremely common ingredient in personal care products from moisturizers to foundation to lip balm, and it is also an ingredient in a myriad of hair products. Baby oil, for example, is made entirely of mineral oil.
Though its association with petroleum has caused people to say mineral oil is bad for or ages skin, the truth is that petroleum itself is a natural ingredient that comes from the earth, and that once it becomes cosmetics-or pharmaceutical-grade mineral oil, it bears no resemblance to petroleum itself.
1 Rumor: Mineral oil prevents the absorption of the collagen in your moisturizer. 2  FALSE The collagen in your moisturizer is too big to penetrate your skin (and that’s a good thing!). 3  Therefore, mineral oil will have no effect on whether collagen gets absorbed or not. 4  Rumor: Mineral oil causes acne.
4. Mineral oil prevents absorption of collagen from collagen moisturizers. Collagen in your skin lotions and moisturizers is too big to actually penetrate your skin. Therefore, mineral oil will have no effect on whether the collagen gets absorbed or not.
Features. Mineral oil acts as a moisturizing agent only to the extent that it keeps the area of skin that it is applied to moist. While most moisturizers include important nutrients that support the fragile-and always aging-facial skin mineral oil provides no nutrients whatsoever.
Mineral oil is one of the most commonly used oils in skin care products, but it often gets a bad rap. Here's what's fact and what's fiction when it comes to this frequently used moisturizer. 1  Rumor: Mineral oil dries the skin and causes premature aging.
Mineral oil is a colorless and odorless oil that’s made from petroleum—as a by-product of the distillation of petroleum to produce gasoline. It’s long been used as a common ingredient in lotions, creams, ointments, and cosmetics. It’s lightweight and inexpensive, and helps reduce water loss from the skin.