Come with me let's just dance the night away. Don't worry bout what i do. Watch me as i move on the floor. And let's dance the night away. Ooh the night away. Come with me let's just dance the night away. Ooh no i don't follow no rules. What does your daddy keep telling what you're gonna do. I do whatever i want to. 2 3 4 lets go, hit the door. It's my life and i can't be. 
In 2015, the song was covered and performed by Vocal Adrenaline, on the premiere episode,  Loser Like Me , of the sixth season of Glee. The song was not performed live during the Sammy Hagar era, but did get played during the Van Halen III Tour in 1998. This was also mentioned at a 2006 performance in Detroit, Michigan. The song appears in the films Private Parts, Anchorman 2: The Legend Continues, the science fiction film Mission to Mars, the Academy Award-winning 2012 film Argo, and in the closing credits of That's My Boy.
Dancing the Night Away  is a single by American rock band Cheap Trick, released as the lead single from their 1983 album Next Position Please. Originally performed by The Motors, the song was written by Andy McMaster and Nick Garvey. The single was released on both 7 and 12 vinyl in America, Europe and the UK. Dancing the Night Away  is the debut single by English rock band The Motors, released as the lead single from their 1977 debut studio album 1. The song was written by bassist/keyboardist Andy McMaster and lead vocalist/guitarist Nick Garvey. The single was released on 7 within Europe and 12 vinyl in the UK only
Not to be confused with Dance the Night Away (disambiguation) .  Dancing the Night Away  is the debut single by English rock band The Motors, released as the lead single from their 1977 debut studio album 1. The song was written by bassist/keyboardist Andy McMaster and lead vocalist/guitarist Nick Garvey. The single was released on 7 within Europe and 12 vinyl in the UK only.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia.  Dance the Night Away  was Van Halen 's first top 20 U.S. hit, peaking at #15, and the second song from their 1979 album Van Halen II. This was also mentioned at a 2006 performance in Detroit, Michigan. The song appears in the films Private Parts, Anchorman 2: The Legend Continues, the science fiction film Mission to Mars, the Academy Award-winning 2012 film Argo, and in the closing credits of That's My Boy.
Dance The Night Away is track #15 on the album Definitive Collection. It was written by Malo, Raul. Dance The Night Away is track #15 on the album Definitive Collection. It was written by Malo, Raul. Here comes my happiness again. Right back to where it should have been. 'Cause now she's gone and I am free. And she can't do a thing to me. I just wanna dance the night away. With senoritas who can sway.
While the rest of the songs from this album had existed in various forms since their days doing demos and playing clubs, this song was possibly the only song written during the recording sessions for the album. This was also mentioned at a 2006 performance in Detroit, Michigan. The song appears in the films Private Parts, Anchorman 2: The Legend Continues, the science fiction film Mission to Mars, the Academy Award-winning 2012 film Argo, and in the closing credits of That's My Boy.
Report Abuse. i think the song you are looking for is Dance the Night Away by The Mavericks taken from their 1998 album Trampoline. The song was released as a single in 1998 and reached #63 on the Billboard Hot Country Singles & Tracks chart. It reached #4 on the UK chart, selling approximately 432,000 copies. 'Cause now she's gone and I am free, and she can't do a thing to me. Chorus: I just want to dance the night away with Senhoritas who can sway. Right now tomorrow's looking bright, just like the sunny morning light.
The band members conceived the song during the recording sessions while they were standing in a circle humming to each other. It was inspired by Fleetwood Mac 's  Go Your Own Way . Eddie Van Halen purposely left a guitar solo out of the final version of the song, replacing it instead with a riff of tap harmonics. This was also mentioned at a 2006 performance in Detroit, Michigan. The song appears in the films Private Parts, Anchorman 2: The Legend Continues, the science fiction film Mission to Mars, the Academy Award-winning 2012 film Argo, and in the closing credits of That's My Boy.