A health maintenance organization (HMO) is an organization that provides or arranges managed care for health insurance, self-funded health care benefit plans, individuals, and other entities in the United States and acts as a liaison with health care providers (hospitals, doctors, etc.) on a prepaid basis. In 1970, the number of HMOs declined to fewer than 40. Paul M. Ellwood, Jr. , often called the father of the HMO, began having discussions with what is today the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services that led to the enactment of the Health Maintenance Organization Act of 1973.
Health Maintenance Organization (HMO). A type of health insurance plan that usually limits coverage to care from doctors who work for or contract with the HMO. It generally won't cover out-of-network care except in an emergency. An HMO may require you to live or work in its service area to be eligible for coverage
Simplified. HMO stands for Health Maintenance Organization. It's a type of health plan that is designed to keep costs low and predictable. An HMO may be a good choice for you because: 1  Monthly premiums, copays and deductibles are often lower than other types of plans. An HMO is designed so that you have care personalized to you. Your care is coordinated by one doctor who knows you — your health history, current issues and medication, lifestyle and how your family's health history may affect your health.
In HMO Plans, you can't get your health care from any doctor, other health care provider, or hospital. You generally must get your care and services from doctors, other health care providers, or hospitals in the plan's network (except emergency care, out-of-area urgent care, or out-of-area dialysis). In some plans, you may be able to go out-of-network for certain services, usually for a higher cost.
You’ve probably heard the terms HMO and PPO a lot but it’s often hard to understand the differences in these two types of plans. Below is a simple comparison chart that lays out the basic features of HMOs and PPOs. Remember that there’s no right or wrong choice when it comes to selecting your health care plan. 
A Health Maintenance Organization (HMO) is a type of managed care health plan where members choose their physician from a list of approved health care providers which typically results in lower premiums and/or copayments. Learn the difference between an HMO (Health Maintenance Organization) and a PPO (Preferred Provider Organization) and decide which type of coverage is most beneficial for you and your family. Posted on 1/13/2011 | Comments ().
An organization that provides health coverage with providers under contract. A Health Maintenance Organization (HMO) differs from traditional health insurance by the contracts it has with its providers. 
An HMO is a provider of health care services. As with any health care provider, its expenses are those of providing health care-medical and administrative. As it is a member organization, it's income is derived from member payments. You will find no literature that states payments to an HMO are premiums. Using the Plan. When a person joins a health maintenance organization, he or she usually is asked to choose a primary care physician (PCP). This doctor then acts in part as the HMO's agent in determining which treatments the patient needs.
Unlike traditional indemnity insurance, an HMO covers care rendered by those doctors and other professionals who have agreed by contract to treat patients in accordance with the HMO's guidelines and restrictions in exchange for a steady stream of customers. In 1970, the number of HMOs declined to fewer than 40. Paul M. Ellwood, Jr. , often called the father of the HMO, began having discussions with what is today the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services that led to the enactment of the Health Maintenance Organization Act of 1973.