Oprah Winfrey introduced the so-called first pregnant man to viewers of her April 3rd show this past week. Thomas Beatie appeared, six months pregnant, with his wife Nancy and his obstetrician, Dr. Kimberly James (by satellite hookup). You can see the complete show here. But many viewers thought the whole thing was blown out of proportion because Thomas was born with a perfectly normal uterus.
The answer is yes. Also, if you're pregnant with a baby boy and a baby girl, then they too can copulate and impregnate each other. If you're pregnant with a baby boy, it's highly likely that the baby boy will impregnate you again and you'll have babies at different stages in the womb...semi fraternal twins. The baby can get pregnant only if it's a female. If you suspect that your baby is pregnant, try not to have sex again. You run the risk of getting your baby's baby pregnant and that can lead to complications like an infinite loop.
Most 12 or 13 year old boys can get a girl pregnant but maybe someone he is comfortable with should have the uuhhh talk about wet dreams and stuff. If he has them then probably he could father a baby cause he is producing the right stuff. Good luck. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Basically, a boy can get a girl pregnant when he starts releasing sperm in his ejaculate. Prepubescent boys produce semen, but it does not contain sperm. Sperm appear in the semen during puberty, typically around the age of 14.
How can you get pregnant with a boy?   There is advice in when you finish your period 2 weeks later to have sex until you get your period again and their is alot of percentage it can be a boy. If a boy ejaculates inside your vagina and you have not become pregnant, there are several possible causes: 1. to become pregnant, an egg from your ovary must come into conta … ct with living sperm from the boy to be fertilised. Sperm only lives for two or three days inside the uterus.
1 You can ovulate anywhere from 13 to 20 days before your next period. 2  To get pregnant, you should have sex a few days leading up to and on the day of ovulation. 3  Sperm can live up to 6 days in your body, but your egg can only survive 12 to 24 hours. First, review the basics: 1 
1 To get pregnant, you should have sex a few days leading up to and on the day of ovulation. 2  Sperm can live up to 6 days in your body, but your egg can only survive 12 to 24 hours. 3  That's why having sex before and during ovulation is best, so that you raise the odds of the sperm and egg meeting. First, review the basics: 1  You can ovulate anywhere from 13 to 20 days before your next period. 2  To get pregnant, you should have sex a few days leading up to and on the day of ovulation. 3
How to get pregnant with a boy is a question many parents ask for many different reasons. In many Asian countries it is more desirable to have boys as they have a higher status in society and are able to provide them better in old age. However, in most cases it is merely a case of purely wanting a boy more than a girl. This is because the closer you can deposit the sperm to the cervix, the more chance that the sprinter boy sperm can reach the goal first without slowing down or stopping. Good luck and I hope you now have all of the information you were looking for in regards to how to get pregnant with a boy.
1: Yes, you can get pregnant the first time that you have sex. You may have heard that a girl can't get pregnant the first time that she has sex. The truth is, if a boy and a girl have sex and don’t use contraception, she can get pregnant, whether it’s her first time or she has had sex lots of times. A boy can get a girl pregnant the first time he has sex. If you’re female and have sex, you can get pregnant as soon as you start ovulating (releasing eggs). This happens before you have your first period. Find out more about periods and the menstrual cycle. There's a myth that a girl can’t get pregnant if a boy withdraws his penis before he ejaculates (comes). The truth is, pulling out the penis won’t stop a girl from getting pregnant. Before a boy ejaculates, there's sperm in the pre-ejaculatory fluid (pre-come), which leaks out when he gets excited.