Meningitis is a serious disease that is marked by inflammation of the membranes (meninges) and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), which encase and protect the brain and spinal cord. Meningitis is also called spinal meningitis. Types of meningitis include: 
Inflammation of the meninges (three thin layers of tissue that cover and protect the brain and spinal cord). Meningitis is usually caused by a bacterial or viral infection, but sometimes is caused by cancer, drug allergies, or inflammatory diseases. About Meningitis. Meningitis is most often caused by a bacterial infection. It also may be caused by a virus, fungal infection, parasite, a reaction to certain medications or medical treatments, a rheumatologic disease such as lupus, some types of cancer, or a traumatic injury to the head or spine.
It is most often caused by a bacterial or viral infection. Spinal meningitis is a condition that causes inflammation and swelling in the lining of the brain and spinal cord. The swelling that results can harm or destroy nerve cells and cause bleeding in the brain. 
Email. Print. Spinal meningitis is an infection of the fluid and membranes around the brain and spinal cord. Once infection starts, it can spread rapidly through the body. Without treatment it can cause brain damage in a matter of hours and can be fatal within 24 hours
Meningitis is inflammation of the lining around the brain and spinal cord. It is usually caused by an infection. The infection occurs most often in children, teens, and young adults. 
Meningitis is an inflammation of the membranes that cover the brain and spinal cord. It can be caused by a number of infectious agents including viruses and bacteria. 
Meningitis, sometimes referred to as spinal meningitis, is an inflammation of the membranes surrounding the brain and spinal cord. Meningitis is usually caused by a viral infection, but it can also be caused by a bacterial or fungal infection. Headaches caused by inflammation of the meninges, the membranes surrounding the brain and spinal cord, feel different from other types of headaches. They're much more severe than a headache you'd get from dehydration or even a migraine.
Recommend on Facebook Tweet ShareCompartir. Meningitis is a disease caused by the inflammation of the protective membranes covering the brain and spinal cord known as the meninges. The inflammation is usually caused by an infection of the fluid surrounding the brain and spinal cord. Meningitis may develop in response to a number of causes, usually bacteria or viruses, but meningitis can also be caused by physical injury, cancer or certain drugs.
Meningitis is defined as an inflammation of the lining of the brain and spinal cord. It's caused when the protective membranes around the brain and spinal cord known as the meninges become infected. There are actually several types of meningitis but bacterial and viral meningitis are the 2 most common. 