You got vaccines for whooping cough when you were a young child, but the protection often wears off by the time you’re a teen. That’s why middle schools and high schools have had lots of students with this disease. Teens now get a booster in the same shot with tetanus and diphtheria (TdaP) at age 11-12 years old. DTaP is the pertussis vaccine most people receive when they are a baby and young child. Unlike the Tdap booster shot, DTaP is stronger and given in five different shots at 2 months, 4 months, 6 months, 15-18 months of age, and before starting school (age 4-6 years).
1 The vaccine is called Tdap. 2  Once an adult gets the Tdap vaccine, he or she should get the Td (tetanus and diphtheria) booster every 10 years from then on. 3  In adults, whooping cough usually starts like a common cold but then the coughing gets worse and can last for weeks or even months. 1 Adults age 65 years and older need a one-time whooping cough booster if they will have close contact with infants younger than 12 months. 2  If not already vaccinated, pregnant women should receive the booster vaccine late in the second trimester or during the third trimester, during each pregnancy.
1 The whooping cough booster is a combination vaccine with tetanus and diphtheria. 2  The vaccine is called Tdap. 3  Once an adult gets the Tdap vaccine, he or she should get the Td (tetanus and diphtheria) booster every 10 years from then on. 1 Adults age 65 years and older need a one-time whooping cough booster if they will have close contact with infants younger than 12 months. 2  If not already vaccinated, pregnant women should receive the booster vaccine late in the second trimester or during the third trimester, during each pregnancy.
A: Yes. Pertussis, or whooping cough, can be prevented with vaccines. Before pertussis vaccines became widely available in the 1940s, about 200,000 children got sick with it each year in the United States and about 9,000 died as a result of the infection. A: If you've been vaccinated and get pertussis, you are less likely to have a serious infection. Typically, your cough won't last as many days and coughing fits, whooping, and vomiting after coughing fits won't occur as often.
1 Once an adult gets the Tdap vaccine, he or she should get the Td (tetanus and diphtheria) booster every 10 years from then on. 2  In adults, whooping cough usually starts like a common cold but then the coughing gets worse and can last for weeks or even months. 1 Adults age 65 years and older need a one-time whooping cough booster if they will have close contact with infants younger than 12 months. 2  If not already vaccinated, pregnant women should receive the booster vaccine late in the second trimester or during the third trimester, during each pregnancy.
There is a relatively new vaccine that adds whooping cough to the familiar diphtheria and tetanus shot. Next time you get this shot, it will likely be Tdap, which stands for tetanus, diphtheria, and pertussis. 
Pertussis vaccines are recommended for people of all ages. Babies and children should get 5 doses of DTaP for maximum protection. A dose is given at 2, 4 and 6 months, at 15 through 18 months, and again at 4 through 6 years. A booster dose of Tdap is given to preteens at 11 or 12 years old. A: If you've been vaccinated and get pertussis, you are less likely to have a serious infection. Typically, your cough won't last as many days and coughing fits, whooping, and vomiting after coughing fits won't occur as often.
The whooping cough booster vaccine for adults (and adolescents) is called Tdap (tetanus-diphtheria-acellular pertussis). Younger children get a different formulation, called DTaP. Both protect against tetanus, diphtheria, and pertussis. 1 FACT: A booster vaccine for adolescents and adults, known as Tdap (tetanus-diphtheria-acellular pertussis), protects against pertussis or “whooping cough.”. 2  FACT: The CDC recommends that adults receive a single dose of Tdap in place of one Td (tetanus-diphtheria) booster, which is recommended every 10 years for adults.
1 Vaccination of pregnant women with Tdap is especially important to help protect infants. 2  Pregnant women should get the vaccine late in the second trimester or in the third trimester for each pregancy. 3  All adults age 19 to 64 years need a one-time whooping cough booster vaccine. 1 Adults age 65 years and older need a one-time whooping cough booster if they will have close contact with infants younger than 12 months. 2  If not already vaccinated, pregnant women should receive the booster vaccine late in the second trimester or during the third trimester, during each pregnancy.