tough cookie. n. a tough person. There was a tough cookie in here this morning who demanded to see the manager. See also: cookie, tough. 1  Facebook. a person who is difficult to deal with. He's a tough cookie, but I can handle him
A reevaluation of the term “tough cookie”. by admin. By Whitney Leggett, CV&T News EditorSometimes I don’t fully comprehend these decade old idioms that people use. Last week I got was called a “tough cookie.” I was assured that it was a compliment. 
tough customer tioatia (tíoatía) (m) f (duroadura);informal a tia tía. A'dura she s a, tough customer but you have to Admire her he was a bit of-a hell raiser in, his youth, a debaucher, a brawler a street fighter and. a troublemaker Butyl is very tough and durable Some plastics are as tough as [metal]... he cut through the tough, orange-yellow [skin] of the mango. ...dark brown beans with a rather tough outer skin The documents will survive beautifully because they're written on parchment, tough animal skin.
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: tough cookie (Noun). A person who can endure physical or mental hardship; a hardened, strong-willed person. tough cookie (Noun). A hardy, resilient animal or plant. tough cookie (Noun). Something troublesome or difficult to handle. 
tough cookie (tʌf ˈkʊkɪ). ( 1 informal) if you describe someone as a tough cookie, you mean that they are unemotional and are not easily hurt by what people say or do ⇒ ■ She really is a tough cookie. Definitions. ( 1 informal) if you describe someone as a tough cookie, you mean that they are unemotional and are not easily hurt by what people say or do ⇒ ■ She really is a tough cookie.
There clearly needs to be some tough talking done in the interests of getting the project finished It took tough talking to get Mr Hoyte to agree to the deal. 3 (resistant) [+substance, material] fuerte; resistente Butyl is very tough and durable Some plastics are as tough as [metal]... he cut through the tough, orange-yellow [skin] of the mango. ...dark brown beans with a rather tough outer skin The documents will survive beautifully because they're written on parchment, tough animal skin.
a tough cookie. someone who is very determined to do what they want and who usually succeeds even in difficult situations We're talking about a woman who brought up six children on her own-she's one tough cookie. See also: cookie, tough. 
tough. adjective. 1. strong, determined, aggressive, high-powered, feisty (informal, chiefly U.S. & Canad.), hard-nosed (informal), self-confident, unyielding, carnivorous (informal), hard as nails, self-assertive, badass (slang, chiefly U.S.) She is tough and ambitious. 
noun. ( 1 informal) if you describe someone as a tough cookie, you mean that they are unemotional and are not easily hurt by what people say or do ⇒ ■ She really is a tough cookie. Definitions. ( 1 informal) if you describe someone as a tough cookie, you mean that they are unemotional and are not easily hurt by what people say or do ⇒ ■ She really is a tough cookie.