An Okazaki fragment is a short length of DNA used to form a growing lagging strand in replicating DNA. Okazaki fragments allow the lagging strand to be synthesized in the 5' to 3' direction while the strand actually grows in the direction of the replication fork (3' to 5'). 
Report Abuse. An Okazaki fragment is a relatively short fragment of DNA (with an RNA primer at the 5' terminus) created on the lagging strand during DNA replication. It was originally discovered in 1968 by Reiji Okazaki, Tsuneko Okazaki, and their colleagues while studying replication of bacteriophage DNA in Escherichia coli. Regarding the lagging strand, the result of this strand's discontinuous replication is the production of a series of short sections of DNA called Okazaki fragments. Experimental Proof: Each Okazaki fragment is initiated near the replication fork at an RNA primer created by primase, and extended by DNA polymerase III.
Okazaki Fragments. Relatively short polymers of DNA that are synthesized in association with replication of what is known as the lagging strand during DNA replication. Semiconservative DNA replication of double-stranded DNA requires more or less simultaneous polymerization of DNA off of two antiparallel DNA templates. The resulting stretch of newly synthesized DNA that is associated with this lagging or discontinuous strand is called an Okazaki fragment. Okazaki fragments, as with DNA replication in general, requires RNA priming, which serves as the beginning of
During DNA replication Okazaki fragments are joined together by DNA polymerase. Remember that Okazaki fragments start with an RNA primer so RNAse H is need to remove the pri … mer follwed by DNA plymerase to add nucleotides and finally DNA ligase to seal the single strand nick. Okazaki fragments are created during DNA replication because DNA Polymerase can only add nucleotides in a 5' to 3' direction.
Okazaki fragments are created during DNA replication because DNA Polymerase can only add nucleotides in a 5' to 3' direction. This means that one strand (the leading strand) … can be continuously created, but the other strand (the lagging strand) runs in the opposite direction. 
Confidence votes 9.4K. Okazaki fragments are created during DNA replication because DNA Polymerase can only add nucleotides in a 5' to 3' direction. This means that one strand (the leading strand) can be continuously created, but the other strand (the lagging strand) runs in the opposite direction
Okazaki fragment. Definition. noun, plural: Okazaki fragments. Relatively short fragment of DNA synthesized on the lagging strand during DNA replication. Supplement. At the start of DNA replication, DNA unwinds and the two strands splits in two, forming two prongs which resemble a fork (thus, called replication fork). 
Report Abuse. Okazaki fragments are created during DNA replication because DNA Polymerase can only add nucleotides in a 5' to 3' direction. This means that one strand (the leading strand) can be continuously created, but the other strand (the lagging strand) runs in the opposite direction. During DNA replication, the lagging strand (which runs in 5' to 3' direction toward the replication fork) is duplicated in the form of short discontinuous stretches of nucleotides (3000-5000 nucleotides long) called the okazaki fragments.
You now know that Okazaki fragments are the fragments of DNA that are created when the complementary strand to the lagging strand is created. They occur because of the fact that the lagging strand is exposed in the 3' - 5' direction, while DNA synthesis has to occur in the 5' - 3' direction. 
Okazaki fragments are short, newly synthesized DNA fragments that are formed on the lagging template strand during DNA replication. Primase adds RNA primers onto the lagging strand, which allows synthesis of Okazaki fragments from 5’ to 3’. However, Primase creates RNA primers at a much lower rate than that at which DNA polymerase synthesizes DNA on the leading strand.