The Life of a Sponge. Elephant ear sponge, © 2006 Richard Ling. The word sponge, for most of us relates to the scrubbing sponge or a bath sponge. It is easy to forget that there is much more to sponges than the scrubbing and bath. The sponges are living animals that live in the water. Sponge cells are totipotent (Dawkins 2004). The totipotent cells could give rise to reproductive cells or other types of cells of the organism. In theory, this enables a sponge to live forever (Dawkins 2004). Sponges can produce sexually as well as asexually.
Unlike the cells of most other animals, the cells of sponges do not form into various organs like kidney, liver, or nerves. Sponge cells are totipotent (Dawkins 2004). The totipotent cells could give rise to reproductive cells or other types of cells of the organism. In theory, this enables a sponge to live forever (Dawkins 2004). Sponges can produce sexually as well as asexually.
There are more than 10,000 species of sponge. Most sponges live in the ocean. A few live in fresh water. All sponges take in water through pores (little holes) in their bodies. A sponge is a member of the phylum Porifera. It is a simple animal with many cells, but no mouth, muscles, heart or brain. It is sessile: it cannot move from place to place the way most other animals can. A sponge is an animal that grows in one spot like most plants do. Nevertheless, sponges are quite successful.
Sponges are a diverse group of sometimes common types, with about 5000 species known across the world. Sponges are primarily marine, but around 150 species live in fresh water. Other characteristics of sponges include a system of pores (also called ostia) and canals, through which water passes. Water movement is driven by the beating of flagellae, which are located on specialized cells called choanocytes (collar cells).
Sponges are animals of the phylum Porifera (/pɒˈrɪfərə/ ; meaning pore bearer). They are multicellular organisms that have bodies full of pores and channels allowing water to circulate through them, consisting of jelly-like mesohyl sandwiched between two thin layers of cells. Archaeocyathids, which some classify as a type of coralline sponge, are common in the Cambrian period from about 530 million years ago, but apparently died out by the end of the Cambrian 490 million years ago.
Comstock Images/Comstock/Getty Images. With 15,000 species in waters around the world, sponges (phylum Porifera) are a widespread, extremely primitive animal species. Because of their simple design these creatures have been able to adapt to a variety of habitats and conditions. 
Many sponges have internal skeletons of spongin and/or spicules of calcium carbonate or silicon dioxide. All sponges are sessile aquatic animals. Although there are freshwater species, the great majority are marine (salt water) species, ranging from tidal zones to depths exceeding 8,800 m (5.5 mi). Archaeocyathids, which some classify as a type of coralline sponge, are common in the Cambrian period from about 530 million years ago, but apparently died out by the end of the Cambrian 490 million years ago.
Sponges do not have any internal organs or a nervous system. Their skeleton is made of tiny, needle-like splinters, or a mesh of protein called spongin (2) Most of the Demospongiae are made of spongin. Some of the sponges are made of both spicules and spongin. Sponge cells are totipotent (Dawkins 2004). The totipotent cells could give rise to reproductive cells or other types of cells of the organism. In theory, this enables a sponge to live forever (Dawkins 2004). Sponges can produce sexually as well as asexually.
Sponges, like all animals, possess some sort of a skeleton that gives their bodies shape. As a whole, poriferans have diverse skeletal elements including calcareous laminae, organic filaments, and siliceous and calcareous spicules. 