How popular is Ember? Ember is an uncommonly occurring first name for females but a somewhat prominent surname for both adults and children (#96480 out of 150436, Top 64%). (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the baby name popularity of Ember for girls. Ember was first listed in 2009 and reached its top rank of #435 in the U.S. in the year 2014. (2014 Birth Statistics). Amber (#309 the previous year) is the only other prominent alternative form of Ember (#435 the previous year) listed in the Top 1000. 
Popularity of the Name Ember. Below you will find the popularity of the baby name Ember displayed annually, from 1880 to the present day in our name popularity chart. Hover over or click on the dots that represent a year to see how many babies were given the name for that year, for both genders, if available. Instead, we recommend that you pay a greater attention to the origin and meaning of the name Ember. Read our baby name articles for useful tips regarding baby names and naming your baby.
Baby names meanings search results: The name Ember is a baby boy name. The name Ember comes from the English origin. In English The meaning of the name Ember is: Hot ashes. 
Personal experiences with the name Ember: | Edit. My name is Ember and its a really cool name. My mom came up with it after the eleven leader in her favorite comic book and although i may be called Amber a lot i wouldnt change it for anything. No weird nicknames other than Emby-Bear and Em-bear which can be annoying. Our 16 year old daughter's name is Ember Colleen
The first thing you should know if you are considering Ember for your baby's name is that in most countries all over the world the name Ember is a girl name. The name Ember is of English origin, and is used mostly in English speaking countries but also in a few other countries and languages of the world. Instead, we recommend that you pay a greater attention to the origin and meaning of the name Ember. Read our baby name articles for useful tips regarding baby names and naming your baby.
Ember is the English vocabulary word for the smoldering remnants of a fire that appear in the form of glowing ashes. “Ember” is derived from the Olde English “aemerge” æmerge which finds its roots in The “germanic” aima “meaning”. Ashes the root origin is also associated with the “verbs to” burn “or to”. glow “Ember” is derived from the Olde English “aemerge” æmerge which finds its roots in The “germanic” aima “meaning”. Ashes the root origin is also associated with the “verbs to” burn “or to”. Glow in, essence an ember is a glowing object representing the remains of a dying. fire
Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Ember and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The history and meaning of the name Ember is fascinating, learn more about it. Instead, we recommend that you pay a greater attention to the origin and meaning of the name Ember. Read our baby name articles for useful tips regarding baby names and naming your baby.
Etymology & Historical Origin-Ember. Ember is the English vocabulary word for the smoldering remnants of a fire that appear in the form of glowing ashes. “Ember” is derived from the Olde English “aemerge” æmerge which finds its roots in The “germanic” aima “meaning”. ashes “Ember” is derived from the Olde English “aemerge” æmerge which finds its roots in The “germanic” aima “meaning”. Ashes the root origin is also associated with the “verbs to” burn “or to”. Glow in, essence an ember is a glowing object representing the remains of a dying. fire
It is pronounced EH MBer- †. Ember has its origins in the Arabic and English languages. It is used largely in English. From English roots, its meaning is 'ember'. In addition, Ember is a form of the Dutch and English Amber. Forms of Ember include the names Embar, Emberlee, Emberly, Embir, and Embyr. Ember is rather popular as a baby girl name, and it is also regarded as trendy. 