A Category Manager works in the marketing department of a company, usually within the retail field. The main goal of the Category Manager is to drive sales within their respective category. If you’re a creative thinker who loves coming up with innovative marketing plans to help set your division apart from the competition, this could be your ideal position.
A procurement category manager is a purchasing professional responsible for the buying activities of a specific product or component category. Responsibilities vary by company and position but generally include sourcing suppliers, negotiating prices, and finalizing contracts. 
Category management is a process that involves managing product categories as business units and customizing them [on a store by store basis] to satisfy customer needs. (Nielsen). The industry standard model for category management in retail is the 8-step process, or 8-step cycle developed by the Partnering Group. The eight steps are shown in the diagram on the right; they are 1  : Define the category (i.e. what products are included/excluded).
Read More... A category manager determines the layout of products in a store, using sophisticated demographic data to assess possible product assortment schemes, select an option, ensure the selected scheme is employed, and monitor the scheme's performance. 
Category management in a retail context [edit]. Each category is run as a mini business (business unit) in its own right, with its own set of turnover and/or profitability targets and strategies. The industry standard model for category management in retail is the 8-step process, or 8-step cycle developed by the Partnering Group. The eight steps are shown in the diagram on the right; they are 1  : Define the category (i.e. what products are included/excluded).
It is the job of the category manager to coordinate all of these roles, making them all work towards the success of the product and the company. The category manager is responsible for contacting and managing both buyers and vendors of products. Inventory and securing production supplies are his or her responsibility. Prices are determined in part by his or her analysis of sales trends, competitors, and buying habitats. Post 2. Telesyst, a category product manager generally has a degree in business, sales or marketing. Since most employers require these managers to have a degree, those with advanced degrees, like an MBA, will have an advantage over candidates with just bachelors degrees or extensive marketing or retail work experience.
Category management. Category management is a retailing and purchasing concept in which the range of products purchased by a business organization or sold by a retailer is broken down into discrete groups of similar or related products; these groups are known as product categories.
A Category Manager works in the marketing department of a company, usually within the retail field. The main goal of the Category Manager is to drive sales within their respective category. If you're a creative thinker who loves coming up with innovative marketing plans to help set your division apart from the competition, this could be your ideal position. Since category management is so broad, it's great for individuals who have an interest in a specific retail category, whether it's information technology, health and beauty aids, or furniture, among many other things.
Since category management is so broad, it’s great for individuals who have an interest in a specific retail category, whether it’s information technology, health and beauty aids, or furniture, among many other things. The main goal of the Category Manager is to drive sales within their respective category. If you’re a creative thinker who loves coming up with innovative marketing plans to help set your division apart from the competition, this could be your ideal position.
As a Category Manager, you’re responsible for staying abreast of the major news and trends within your specific category, keeping tabs on competitor products and pricing, and ensuring that your products are meeting customers’ needs. The main goal of the Category Manager is to drive sales within their respective category. If you’re a creative thinker who loves coming up with innovative marketing plans to help set your division apart from the competition, this could be your ideal position.