Tavis is an uncommon first name for men but a very popular surname for both adults and children (#41522 out of 150436, Top 28%). (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the baby name popularity of Tavis for boys. Tavis has not been recorded in the Top 1000 so far. 
Answer by Don Dfoofnik. Confidence votes 173K. There are three kinds of answers: ones that are mostly right, ones that are mostly wrong, and those that once were right but now are wrong. Travis is from Old French and means to cross over (similar to the English word traverse). The surname was often given to gatekeepers, toll collectors, and bridgemen.
How popular is Travis? Travis is a very popular first name for men (#119 out of 1220, Top 10%) and also a very popular last name for both adults and children (#960 out of 150436, Top 1%). (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the baby name popularity of Travis for boys. Travis /trav-is/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced TRAV-iss. It is of Old French origin, and the meaning of Travis is to cross over.
it means from the crossing or tollgate The meaning of Travis is to cross over. It is also an occupational name for gatekeepers and others who collected tolls at bridges a … nd fords. There are three kinds of answers: ones that are mostly right, ones that are mostly wrong, and those that once were right but now are wrong. Travis is from Old French and means to cross over (similar to the English word traverse). The surname was often given to gatekeepers, toll collectors, and bridgemen.
Travis in Nautical Flags. French names have similar origins to those of other old-world European nations. They are often derivations of place names or trade names, or have their basis in history, mythology, religion or nature. They may also be created names. The popularity of hyphenated names is a unique feature of French given names. 
Meaning of Travis. French name. In French, the name Travis means-crossroads. Other origins for the name Travis include-French, English.The name Travis is most often used as a boy name or male name. French Name Meaning-crossroads. Origin-Franc
Meaning: Travis means a sensitive soul, a tender heart, a defender of the weak and a friend to the strong. A person to be loved, a shy soul and a flowing river of life. Travis is a repairer of broken things. 
Meaning of Travis. English name. In English, the name Travis means-Crossing; crossroads; toll gate. In use as both a surname and a first name. Famous Bearers: American country music stars Randy Travis and Travis Tritt.. Other origins for the name Travis include-English, French, French.The name Travis is most often used as a boy name or male name. English Name Meaning-Crossing; crossroads; toll gate. In use as both a surname and a first name. 
English Meaning: The name Travis is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Travis is: Crossing; crossroads; toll gate. In use as both a surname and a first name. Famous Bearers: American country music stars Randy Travis and Travis Tritt. American Meaning: The name Travis is an American baby name. 