But, research on acai berries is limited, and claims about the health benefits of acai haven't been proved. And, many fruits besides acai berries provide antioxidants and other nutrients that are important to your health.
Some weight loss products tout acai, but few studies have tested whether acai promotes weight loss. There’s no doubt that berries and other fruits are a key part of any healthy diet. The jury’s still out on whether there is something special about acai’s ability to help shed excess pounds.
The acai (ah-sigh-EE) berry is a grapelike fruit harvested from acai palm trees, which are native to the rainforests of South America.
Similar to red wine, research shows that acai berries are extremely high in anthocyanins, a form of plant antioxidant associated with the ability to lower cholesterol levels in the blood stream. They are also rich in plant sterols that provide cardio-protective benefits to our cells.
Some cosmetics and beauty products include acai oil because of its antioxidants. Acai oil may be a safe alternative to other tropical oils used in beauty products, such as facial and body creams, anti-aging skin therapies, shampoos, and conditioners.
Acai berries are widely touted as a so-called superfood, with proponents claiming that they are helpful for a variety of health concerns, including arthritis, weight loss, high cholesterol, erectile dysfunction, skin appearance, detoxification and general health.
Acai berries are touted as a superfood with anti-aging and weight loss properties.
The acai berry and acai berry juice is the subject of some big health claims if you search for it online, with claims of anti-ageing and weight loss properties, for example. No claims like these have been verified by the European food regulator EFSA, so you won’t see claims like these on packs sold in shops.
There are numerous healthy berries that would be a great addition to your diet. The acai berry is one of the healthiest berries you will ever find. Acai is an indigenous berry commonly found in the rain forests of the Amazon. This antioxidant-rich fruit has been heralded for centuries as a healing, immune-stimulating, energy-boosting fruit.