XM+ Mix. Zija’s XM+ Mix is a convenient way to drink in healthy Moringa, with natural ingredients like Green Tea, Desert Tea and Ginseng for added energy. Moringa oleifera is considered by many to be the most nutrient-rich plant ever discovered.
If unpleasant effects occur, discontinue use. EXTREME MORINGA ENERGY Zija’s XM+ Energy Mix combines the abundant nutrition of Moringa oleifera with natural energy and performance ingredients to elevate your mood, boost your energy level, and suppress your appetite.
1 XM+ : Zija's XM+ is an energy mix of Moringa, with natural ingredients like Green Tea, Desert Tea and Ginseng. 2  The XM+ delivers sustainable energy without harmful stimulants, artificial ingredients, flavors, preservatives, stabilizers and sweeteners that are usually present in energy drinks.
XM+: Energy Mix AND Nutrition. XM+ is the perfect combination of Zija Smart Mix and XM3 Energy Drink! It is an all-natural beverage blended from the miracle plant — Moringa oleifera — considered by many to be the most nutrient-rich plant ever discovered.
XM+ is overflowing with cell-ready nutrients, antioxidants, minerals, omega oils and vital proteins. Zija is the first, and only, company to channel Moringas dramatic nutritional properties into a refreshing, nourishing energy beverage to help you maintain a healthy, active lifestyle.
Zija's XM+ Mix is a convenient way to drink in healthy Moringa, with natural ingredients like Green Tea, Desert Tea and Ginseng for added energy. Moringa oleifera is considered by many to be the most nutrient-rich plant ever discovered.
Zija’s XM+ Mix is a convenient way to drink in healthy Moringa, with natural ingredients like Green Tea, Desert Tea and Ginseng for added energy. Moringa oleifera is considered by many to be the most nutrient-rich plant ever discovered.
XM+ combines the same dosage and potency of Moringa found in the Zija Smart Mix along with Zija’s proprietary energy mix of plant-based natural Caffeine, natural Desert Tea, natural Green Tea, Fruit Pectin, naturally occurring Trimethlglycine (TMG), Ginseng, natural Allium sativum, and all-natural flavorings.