With optimum conditions such as temperature and humidity a chicken egg takes 21 days to hatch.    From when it was layed, about 20-28 days,depending on the breed. From th … e time when the egg first cracked, about one day. How long does it take to hatch duck eggs? It takes 28 days for duck eggs to hatch.....and it takes 21 days for baby chicks to hatch and you can only put 12 eggs under neath a chicken..
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: It varies by species..but most passerines (perching birds) take approximately 2 weeks to hatch their eggs, and usually another 2 weeks before the young leave the nest. 
Turkey eggs usually take 21 to 28 days to hatch depending on what they are incubated in like an incubator or by a hen. It also depends on how fertile it is and how it is cared … for. It usually takes closer to 28 days. + 158 others found this useful. Share to: It takes 28 days for duck eggs to hatch.....and it takes 21 days for baby chicks to hatch and you can only put 12 eggs under neath a chicken..
How long does it take to hatch duck eggs? It takes 28 days for duck eggs to hatch.....and it takes 21 days for baby chicks to hatch and you can only put 12 eggs under neath a chicken.. Share to:
Turkey eggs usually take 21 to 28 days to hatch depending on what they are incubated in like an incubator or by a hen. It also depends on how fertile it is and how it is cared … for. It usually takes closer to 28 days. + 158 others found this useful. How long does it take to hatch duck eggs? It takes 28 days for duck eggs to hatch.....and it takes 21 days for baby chicks to hatch and you can only put 12 eggs under neath a chicken..
The female lays 1 to 5 (usually 3) white to greenish eggs that average about one inch in length and one-half inch in diameter. Incubation begins when the last egg is laid, and is performed solely by the female. The male brings food to the incubating female. The eggs hatch after 11 to 13 days of incubation. The female broods the chicks for the first 2 days. Both parents feed the chicks a diet of insects. Both parents also remove fecal sacs from the nest. The chicks begin leaving the nest 7 to 13 (usually 9 to 10) days after hatching
1 years. The female northern cardinal builds the nest and incubates the eggs. When the chicks hatch they have no feathers or down, so the female broods them to protect them and keep them warm for at least 2 days. Both parents feed the chicks a diet of insects. 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: They will start to incubate only when all the eggs have been laid..they usually lay one per day and usually lay 3 eggs (although can range between 1-5). Once incubation starts, the eggs will hatch in 11-13 days. Once hatched, the chicks will leave the nest at 7-13 days of age. Do be careful about letting your dogs near the nest, as the chicks will fledge (leave the nest) BEFORE they can fly. They will hatch in a few weeks. Around 14 days. It's not a long time for wild birds. You can watch the nest, just don't handle for fear of breaking or cracking the eggs.