The northern snakehead is native to Asia and is one of 29 snakehead species. It made its national news debut in 2002, after an angler at a pond behind a strip mall in Crofton, Maryland, caught a long, skinny fish, about 18 inches from end to end, that neither he nor his fishing buddy recognized. 
The northern snakehead (Channa argus) is a type of snakehead fish native to China, Russia, North Korea, and South Korea. In Europe, the first report of the species was from Czechoslovakia (now the Czech Republic) in 1956. In the United States, the fish is considered to be a highly invasive species. In 2008, the northern snakehead was found in drainage ditches in Arkansas, as a result of a commercial fish-farming accident. Recent flooding may have allowed the species to spread into the nearby White River, which would allow an eventual population of the fish in the Arkansas and Mississippi Rivers.
The northern snakehead fish was first discovered in the United States in California in 1997. This species is considered established in Virginia, Maryland, Pennsylvania, New York and Arkansas. Individual fish have also been collected in California, Florida, Illinois, Massachusetts, Delaware and North Carolina. In the United States, there are four species of snakeheads: Channa argus (northern snakehead), Channa micropeltes (giant snakehead), Channa marulius (bullseye snakehead), and Channa maculate (blotched snakehead). The northern snakehead fish has succeeded in establishing breeding populations in the wild.
Channa argus. The northern snakehead is a predatory fish native to southern and eastern Asia that is now found in several American states. The fish was likely introduced to the United States by people who bought live snakehead from fish markets or pet shops and later released them into lakes, rivers or ponds. 
The northern snakehead is an aggressive freshwater fish that can grow to be about 4 feet long. It has been found in a variety of freshwater lakes, swamps, ponds, and streams of various temperatures, but cannot tolerate saltwater. The northern snakehead fish is native to parts of Asia and Africa. 
PATHWAYS/HISTORY: The northern snakehead is native to areas of China, Russia, and Korea. In the United States, the snakehead was first discovered in 1977 within Silverwood Lake, California. In 2002, this species was discovered in a pond in Crofton, Maryland. (Channa argus). DESCRIPTION: The northern snakehead has a long, thin body that can grow to 47 inches and 15 pounds. It has a somewhat flattened head with eyes located in a dorsolateral position on the anterior part of the head; tubular anterior nostrils; elongated dorsal and anal fins; and a truncated tail.
Northern Snakehead. Northern snakeheads (Channa argus) are a fish native to eastern Asia (Courtenay and Williams, 2004), and were recently introduced to North America. Summary. Northern snakeheads (Channa argus) are a fish native to eastern Asia (Courtenay and Williams, 2004), and were recently introduced to North America. The first reproducing population was found in Crofton Pond, MD, in 2002 and was eradicated that year when Maryland DNR poisoned the pond with Rotenone
The northern snakehead fish is said to not be a threat to humans. However, a more vicious species, the giant snakeheads have reportedly attacked and even killed peo … ple who have went near its young. They have been found in Maine, California, Florida, Hawaii, Maryland, Massachusetts, and Rhode Island. Split and merge into it. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. The northern snakehead fish came from China, Korea, and Russia. and now is very common in the USA as a non-native species.