Tricuspid regurgitation is leakage of blood backwards through the tricuspid valve each time the right ventricle contracts. Sometimes long-standing disorders, such as emphysema or pulmonary stenosis can cause problems that affect the tricuspid valve which is “upstream” from the lungs. To compensate, the right ventricle enlarges so that it can pump harder, which sometimes causes the tricuspid opening to become stretched out and floppy.
Complications. If tricuspid valve regurgitation lasts, it can lead to: 1  Heart failure. 2  In severe tricuspid valve regurgitation, pressure can rise in your right ventricle due to blood flowing backward into the right atrium and less blood flowing forward through the right ventricle and into the lungs. Severe tricuspid valve regurgitation can result in heart failure. If you have signs or symptoms of heart failure — such as feeling easily fatigued or short of breath, even with normal activity — see your doctor.
The tricuspid valve, or right atrioventricular valve, is on the right dorsal side of the mammalian heart, between the right atrium and the right ventricle. The tricuspid valve prevents back flow of blood into the right atrium. This valve is weakened by drug abuse. The back flow of blood is also known as regression or tricuspid regurgitation.
When to see a doctor. Severe tricuspid valve regurgitation can result in heart failure. If you have signs or symptoms of heart failure — such as feeling easily fatigued or short of breath, even with normal activity — see your doctor. Your doctor may refer you to a doctor trained in heart conditions (cardiologist)
Tricuspid insufficiency (TI) , a valvular heart disease also called tricuspid regurgitation (TR), refers to the failure of the heart's tricuspid valve to close properly during systole. As a result, with each heart beat some blood passes from the right ventricle to the right atrium, the opposite of the normal direction. Tricuspid regurgitation occurs in roughly less than 1% of people and is usually asymptomatic, but may also be a feature of pulmonary hypertension and right-sided heart failure. The result is incompetence of the tricuspid valve. Left ventricular failure is, in turn, the most common cause of right ventricular dilation. Other common causes of right ventricular dilation include right ventricular infarction, inferior myocardial infarction and cor pulmonale.
1 Heart failure. 2  In severe tricuspid valve regurgitation, pressure can rise in your right ventricle due to blood flowing backward into the right atrium and less blood flowing forward through the right ventricle and into the lungs. 3  Your right ventricle can expand and weaken over time, leading to heart failure. Severe tricuspid valve regurgitation can result in heart failure. If you have signs or symptoms of heart failure — such as feeling easily fatigued or short of breath, even with normal activity — see your doctor.
What are the symptoms of tricuspid valve regurgitation? Tricuspid regurgitation may not have any symptoms or the symptoms be vague, such as weakness and fatigue, which develop because the heart is not pumping enough blood to allow the body to receive the needed oxygen. Sometimes long-standing disorders, such as emphysema or pulmonary stenosis can cause problems that affect the tricuspid valve which is “upstream” from the lungs. To compensate, the right ventricle enlarges so that it can pump harder, which sometimes causes the tricuspid opening to become stretched out and floppy.
For the type of tooth, see dental anatomy. The tricuspid valve, or right atrioventricular valve, is on the right dorsal side of the mammalian heart, between the right atrium and the right ventricle. The function of the valve is to prevent back flow of blood into the right atrium. The tricuspid valve prevents back flow of blood into the right atrium. This valve is weakened by drug abuse. The back flow of blood is also known as regression or tricuspid regurgitation.
0. The majority of serious heart valve problems affect the mitral and aortic valves; disease of the tricuspid and pulmonary valves is fairly rare but more common in India, Pakistan and other developing countries than in North America or Western Europe: 1 Tricuspid regurgitation (TR) is more common than tricuspid stenosis and usually develops in association with pulmonary hypertension in patients with mitral stenosis or mitral regurgitation. 2  TR may occur as a result of trauma or infective endocarditis.
Physicians who treat this condition. Valvular heart disease is characterized by damage to or a defect in one of the four heart valves: the mitral, aortic, tricuspid or pulmonary. The mitral and tricuspid valves control the flow of blood between the atria and the ventricles (the upper and lower chambers of the heart). The pulmonary valve controls the flow of blood from the heart to the lungs, and the aortic valve governs blood flow between the heart and the aorta, and thereby the blood vessels to the rest of the body. The mitral and aortic valves are the ones most frequently affected by valvular heart disease.