Located in Europe, Greece is situated along the Mediterranean Sea, sharing borders with Albania, Bulgaria, Macedonia and Turkey. With its many islands and borders along the Ionian Sea and the Aegean Sea in addition to the Mediterranean, Greece boasts the eleventh longest coastline in the world. Print.
The Black Sea, Maps and Details. print this map. other bodies of water. The Black Sea is an inland sea located between far-southeastern Europe and the far-western edges of the continent of Asia and the country of Turkey. It's bordered by Turkey, and by Bulgaria, Romania, Ukraine, Russia and Georgia.
Related Guides: Located directly to the south of mainland Greece and within the Aegean Sea, the volcanic island of Santorini part of the island group known as the Cyclades.
Positioned between Greece and Turkey, the Aegean Sea, part of the Mediterranean Sea, also includes the Sea of Crete and Thracian Sea.overing an area of approximately 214,000 sq km, it's bordered in the northeast by the Dardanellas Strait, and in the south by the Ionian Sea, Mediterranean Sea and the island of Crete.
Location & map. The volcanic island of Santorini is located in the Aegean Sea and it is the southernmost island of the insular complex of the Cyclades. The island slopes down the volcanic cliffs of the Caldera into the shimmering waters of the Aegean Sea forming majestically the most awe-inspiring scenery.
Report Abuse. Aegean Sea is part of Greece and it is located East/South of the Greek mainland. There are over 1400 islands of Greece and 93 of them are located in the Aegean Sea. Roulaki · 7 years ago. Thumbs up.
; Turkish: Ege Denizi or Adalar Denizi) is an elongated embayment of the Mediterranean Sea located between the Greek and Anatolian peninsulas, i.e., between the mainlands of Greece and Turkey. In the north, it is connected to the Marmara Sea and Black Sea by the Dardanelles and Bosporus.
Submit questions-New Articles. The Aegean Sea is an elongated bay of the Mediterranean Sea located between the mainland of Greece and Turkey. It covers about 214,000 square kilometers (83,000 square miles) in area. East of Crete the sea reaches its maximum depth of 3,543 meters (11,624 feet). 
Paros is an island in the Cyclades group in the central Aegean. It is the third largest island of the Cyclades and its position on important sea routes between mainland Greece and the coast of Asia Minor made it an important centre from the early Bronze Age through to Roman times.he Aegean Sea lies between the coast of Greece and Asia Minor (modern-day Turkey). It contains over 2,000 islands which were settled by the ancient Greeks; the largest among them being Crete (Kriti) and the best known and most often photographed, Santorini (Thera or Thira).