(Noun) The wenis is the skin of your elbow; the bend of it. It is not a bone, but the skin, usually the part that is the first to dry out if anything. It is one part of the body that, even with a lot of pressure applied, you can't feel it. (Noun) skin covering your elbow. (Noun) the skin on your elbow joint. (Noun) Skin on your elbow opposite of the wagina. (Noun) The stretchy skin on the posterior side of the elbow. (Noun) the part of your elbow that is floppy and has no feeling. (Noun) The rough, excess skin on the point of your elbow, which, if touched, display
The elbow is the joint where three long bones meet in the middle portion of the arm. The bone of the upper arm (humerus) meets the inner bone of the forearm (ulna) and the outer bone of the forearm (radius) to form a hinge joint. The radius and ulna also meet in the elbow to allow for rotation of the forearm. The outer bone of the elbow is referred to as the lateral epicondyle and is a part of the humerus bone. Tendons are attached to this area and can be injured, causing inflammation or tendinitis (lateral epicondylitis, or  tennis elbow ).
Cubital fossa. Not in any anatomy book I've ever seen, the olecranon is the bone that sticks out but the skin isn't called anything other than elbow, cept for in slang. QUOTE. The outside skin of your elbow is called the wenis. DH and I will use any opportunity we can find to say it
An inside look at the structure of the elbow. #. Advertisement. Advertisement. The elbow is where the two bones of the forearm – the radius on the thumb side of the arm and the ulna on the pinky finger side – meet the bone of the upper arm -- the humerus. The lower end of the humerus flares out into two rounded protrusions called epicondyles, where muscles attach. 
Olecranal, is not referring to the skin, but to the protrusion of the bone called … the ulna. In human anatomy class, we were told that the elbow skin is continuous and contiguous with the rest of the skin on your body, which is part of the integument, or epidermis. Wenis is not an anatomical term and therefore does not refer to any part of an elbow. The bone under the elbow is known as the olecranon. The skin on the olecranon is not sp … ecifically named.
The normal anatomy of the elbow joint shown from the side closest to the body. The bones, major nerves, and ligaments are highlighted. Your elbow joint is where three bones in your arm meet: your upper arm bone (humerus) and the two bones in your forearm (radius and ulna). It is a combination hinge and pivot joint. The hinge part of the joint lets the arm bend and straighten; the pivot part lets the lower arm twist and rotate. 