The antelopes and gazelles of the Sahara have suffered from over-hunting, drought and loss of habitat. The sandy desert-and dune-dwelling addax (Addax nasomaculatus) is listed as critically endangered, with fewer than 300 antelope left in Chad and Niger.
Wild asses, antelopes and gazelles are some of the endangered species of the Sahara Desert. slide 1 of 7. Editor's Note: This article was archived on January 29, 2013, as the content addresses species that were endangered at the time the article was originally written -- June 25, 2010. slide 2 of 7.
The main threat to Sonoran Desert Regionplants and animals is loss of habitat. A habitatis the area where a species lives and finds thefood, water, and shelter it needs to survive andreproduce. It is a plant’s or animal’s home.
Threats to the Desert Tortoise. T he desert tortoise (Gopherus agassizii) is found in the Mojave and Sonoran Deserts in North America. It is listed as threatened under the United States federal Endangered Species Act and is considered vulnerable by the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN).
The Desert Botanical Garden is a founding member of the Center for Plant Conservation (CPC), a national consortium of 36 botanical gardens and arboreta dedicated to saving America's endangered plants. In 1987 the Desert Botanical Garden was selected to serve as the Southwest regional garden.
1 Grazing animals can destroy many desert plants and animals. 2  Potassium cyanide used in gold mining may poison wildlife. 3  Off-road vehicles, when used irresponsibly, can cause irreparable damage to desert habitats. 4  Oil and gas production may disrupt sensitive habitat.
For the Desert Botanical Garden, biodiversity is a touchstone for what we do. This word refers to all the forms of life on the planet, from the many different forms of plants and animals, the communities that species form, and even the genes that make each and every one of us what we are.
The Sahara Desert covers the northern regions of Africa, stretching across 13 countries, from the Atlantic Ocean to the Red Sea. It's the largest hot desert in the world; only the frozen waste of the Antarctic is bigger.
The desert tortoise has lived in the Mojave and Colorado/Sonoran deserts of California, southern Nevada, Arizona, southwestern Utah, and in Mexico for thousands of years. This reptile is able to survive ground temperature exceeding 140 degrees F and is known to live as long as 60 to 80 years.