Ninhydrin (2,2-Dihydroxyindane-1,3-dione) is a chemical used to detect ammonia or primary and secondary amines. When reacting with these free amines, a deep blue or purple color known as Ruhemann's purple is produced. Amino-acid residues are attached with their N-terminus protected, so if the next residue has been successfully coupled onto the chain, the test gives a colorless or yellow result. Ninhydrin is also used in amino acid analysis of proteins.
Ninhydrin is most commonly used to detect fingerprints, as the terminal amines of lysine residues in peptides and proteins sloughed off in fingerprints react with ninhydrin. It is a white solid which is soluble in ethanol and acetone at room temperature. Ninhydrin can be considered as the hydrate of indane-1,2,3-trione. Amino-acid residues are attached with their N-terminus protected, so if the next residue has been successfully coupled onto the chain, the test gives a colorless or yellow result. Ninhydrin is also used in amino acid analysis of proteins.
Since it was first used for developing latent fingerprints in 1954, ninhydrin has become the most common method used to reveal prints on porous surfaces. Nearly all forensics labs use ninhydrin for this purpose, and some seldom use anything other than ninhydrin. Forensics Lab 8.3: Revealing Latent Fingerprints Using Ninhydrin. This article incorporates, in modified form, material from the not-yet-published Illustrated Guide to Forensics Investigations: Uncover Evidence in Your Home, Lab, or Basement.
Ninhydrin is especially useful for the detection of fingerprints on porous surfaces, such as wood and paper – items where normal print powders can be nearly useless. Ninhydrin comes in pre-mixed aerosol cans and, in a chrystal form. When using the chrystals, detectives and crime scene investigators must mix the ninhydrin with a carrier, such as acetone – the same chemical that’s found in fingernail polish remover – or alcohol. The mix is then placed in a spray bottle for use.
Ninhydrin, and Iodine-Fuming. Ninhydin is a chemical that reacts with the aminio acids found in fingerprints. When the chemical contacts the amino acids, the combination of the two turns a bright purple color. The coloring is known as Ruhemann’s purple, named after the man who discovered ninhydrin, Siegfried Ruhemann. Ninhydrin comes in pre-mixed aerosol cans and, in a chrystal form. When using the chrystals, detectives and crime scene investigators must mix the ninhydrin with a carrier, such as acetone – the same chemical that’s found in fingernail polish remover – or alcohol. The mix is then placed in a spray bottle for use.
Ninhydrin reacts to the proteins and amino acids found in fingerprints. When ninhydrin is sprayed on the suspected area, the print will appear purple in color when heated to approximately 220 degrees in an oven or with a hair dryer or infrared lamp. Our quick drying Ninhydrin Spray is supplied in an easy-to-use pump misting bottle and is an extremely sensitive method for developing old latent prints on paper documents, letters, newspaper, envelopes, wrapping paper, checks, and even wallpaper at a crime scene.
Ninhydrin is an amino acid-developing reagent that is applied by dipping, brushing or spraying. Development is catalyzed by the addition of heat and atmospheric water through the use of a humidity chamber to obtain a Ruhemann's Purple dye complex. Ninhydrin may be used as a blood enhancment technique. 
A ninhydrin solution in ethanol or other volatile solvents is often used as a developer for amino acids in paper chromatography or thin layer chromatography. Ninhydrin spray is also used on crime scenes to visualize fingerprints, which contain trace amounts of amino acids. 
ninhydrin. n. 1. (Biochemistry) a chemical reagent used for the detection and analysis of primary amines, esp amino acids, with which it forms a derivative with an intense purple colour. [C20: from the chemical name triketo hydrindene ]. 