To purchase an LPG powered Falcon will cost you around $2,500 more than the petrol model, but the Federal government will refund $2,000 of that after your purchase (under a scheme capped at a maximum of 25,000 claims per year). However, the rebate scheme has just 16 months left to run. 
The costs on this list aren't really hidden costs of LPG conversion, because quality installers will tell you all this before you convert your car to LPG, but nevertheles it is advisable to consider them beforehand. LPG Service. Autogas systems have servicing intervals at about 20.000 kilometers or 1 year. Usually the mechanics check for any leakage, change the LPG filter and run a computer diagnostics. Because the costs can go from 20 to 100+€ some people don’t want to service the system until it is too late.
1 Initial cost-It is important to have a fully trained LPG conversion specialist carry out the installation on your car. 2  Generally this costs from £1,500-£2,000. 3  Servicing/insurance costs-The LPG fuel system will need servicing at approximately 12,000 miles or typically once a year. 1 As a result LPG is substantially cheaper at the pumps than petrol and diesel. 2  It is estimated that a high mileage driver can save as much as 40% of their fuel costs with LPG compared to petrol, and 20% compared to diesel. 3  VED/taxes-Cars that run on LPG qualify for reduced taxation as they fit into lower tax bands.
In theory, the government will cover 50% of the cost of converting your car or truck to propane. In practice, however, they’ll cover $500, which isn’t enough (see disadvantages 1-3, again). If it was enough, you’d see a bunch of propane conversions. Conversions definitely make sense, if you are smart and look for the right kit. In Europe, there are conversion kits, which are fully certified, made for injector engines and cost ~ 600 Euros(~800 USD), maybe +100 USD to be bolted to the car. And you also can byu a bigger LPG tank.
Still using petrol. LPG converted engines usually run on petrol when they are colder and switch to LPG when they are warm enough (at around 35 – 40°C). That is why the car will run on petrol longer in colder conditions. A thing to consider if you have a lot of short routes on which the engine doesn’t have enough time to warm up. LPG Service. Autogas systems have servicing intervals at about 20.000 kilometers or 1 year. Usually the mechanics check for any leakage, change the LPG filter and run a computer diagnostics. Because the costs can go from 20 to 100+€ some people don’t want to service the system until it is too late.
Conversion Cost Estimate. Go LPG trade at the higher end of the market, on quality, not price. If you are looking for a high quality conversion and a proper backup service, contact Go LPG. 
What will it cost me to convert to LPG? Depending on which style of system is fitted, installation costs average around $2,500 for a basic vapour mixer to $4,500 for a sequential injection system. LPG on average is about 55% the price of Petrol, however you generally use more litres of LPG than petrol. 1 Most engines suffer a slight loss of performance when converted to LPG. 2  This is mainly due to the compromises needed to use gas in an engine originally designed for petrol. 3  LPG conversions can use up to 30% more fuel, litre for litre, compared to petrol.
This amounts to approximately $1250 per year. A typical, straightforward LPG conversion can cost from $1,500 to $4,500 depending on the type of vehicle. Each vehicle will have different requirements, so drop into your local Repco Authorised Service for a tailored quote. Save on fuel expenses with an LPG conversion and installation. Converting your car to LPG will save you money. LPG is typically at least 50 percent cheaper than other fuels, allowing you to recover the cost of an LPG installation in a relatively short time.