“It all depends on whose ox is being gored” is an old saying of uncertain origin – it may relate to an obscure verse in Exodus in the Holy Bible relating to compensation for the eponymous damaged cattle – but in wide use. In fact, they note that from 1992 to 1997, the U.S. trade deficit almost tripled, while at the same time U.S. industrial production increased by 24 percent and manufacturing output by 27 percent (See Griswold).
T he Gored Ox. The old saying goes that it all depends on whose ox is being gored. Old sayings usually have a very strong element of truth in them as do the tales of the old wives. (Mark 8:36-38) (NASB). It does not depend on whose ox is being gored, it all depends on how much we love the Lord who shed His precious blood for the salvation of my soul and your soul. He who has an ear, let him hear.
SE Michigan, USA. English-American. It depends on whose ox is being gored, was certainly common parlance in my parent's home, and has continued to be so in mine (I'm 68.). I actually arrived here by searching for the phrase so I could give a give a concise definition in another forum. #15. Since it is not something that I associate with specifically American phenomena, from the 18th and 19th century settlement of the eastern forests, or from cattle ranching on the Great Plains, say, I am surprised that whose ox is gored is not as familiar a metaphor in British English as it is in American.
A nuisance in the legal sense of the word is something not allowed by law because it causes harm or offense, either to people in general (public nuisance) or to an individual person. In a just society, laws cannot be enforced on the basis of whose ox is being gored.. Ed Gurowitz's columns and comments in the North Lake Tahoe Bonanza, TahoeTicker.com, and elsewhere.
placeholder. The Pacific Northwest has long been a stronghold for great heavy metal, and Seattle's He Whose Ox Is Gored is one of the region's best kept secrets. The band combines aspects of shoegaze, doom metal, and post-rock to make a hearty stew of delicious post-everything heavy metal. - Shayne Mathis, Metal Injection ...
“Overall, whose ox is gored?” is the main question Professor Gregory Noble raised during his comments in the Social Science Dissertation Workshop last week which was held at the Institute of Social Science, the University of Tokyo (we also call it Shaken Seminar). In fact, they note that from 1992 to 1997, the U.S. trade deficit almost tripled, while at the same time U.S. industrial production increased by 24 percent and manufacturing output by 27 percent (See Griswold).
Answers. Best Answer: It's an old folk saying that means that if your ox (bull) is winning a battle with my bull, you will think everything if fair and just, but if your ox (bull) is loosing, you will think something should be done to correct the situation. 
The expression Whose Ox is Gored derives from the Book of Exodus, as interpreted by Martin Luther at the Diet of Worms in 1521. Exodus verses 21:29 and 31 state: In his defense at the 1521 Diet of Worms, Luther said that most human affairs come down to depending upon whose ox is gored.. The outbursts today by Rep. King and Gov. Christie are merely the latest example of what I refer to as Ox is Gored Conservativism -- the fundamental principle that Conservatives only like government intervention when those close to them or their immediate constituents personally need it.
We should all be there and bring our oxen, but be willing to sacrifice them for the common good. It all depends on whose ox is being gored is an old saying of uncertain origin – it may relate to an obscure verse in Exodus relating to compensation for the eponymous damaged cattle – but in wide use. Ed Gurowitz's columns and comments in the North Lake Tahoe Bonanza, TahoeTicker.com, and elsewhere.