1. The outermost region of a planet's atmosphere. 2. The outermost region of the earth's atmosphere, lying above the thermosphere and extending thousands of kilometers into space, from which molecules having sufficient velocity can escape the earth's gravitation. ex′o·spher′ic (-sfir′sfîr, -ĭk′-) sfĕr. adj Noun. 1. exosphere-the outermost atmospheric layer. layer-a relatively thin sheetlike expanse or region lying over or under another. atmosphere-the envelope of gases surrounding any celestial body.
Definition of EXOSPHERE. : the outer fringe region of the atmosphere of the earth or a celestial body (as a planet). — exo·spher·ic \ˌek-sō-ˈsfir-ik, -ˈsfer-\ adjective. See exosphere defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT
Report Abuse. Endospores are what are typically discussed, they refer to a very hardy state that bacteria enter when they are stressed. Some endospores can live hundreds of years. Exospore can mean different things in different contexts. Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: An endospore is any spore that is produced within an organism usually a bacterium This is in contrast to exospore s which are rather produced by growth or budding The primary function of most endospores is to ensure the survival of a colony. st. Source(s): http://experts.about.com/e/e/en/Endospor..
Up to 20% of the dry weight of the endospore consists of calcium dipicolinate within the core, which is thought to stabilize the DNA. Dipicolinic acid could be responsible for the heat resistance of the spore, and calcium may aid in resistance to heat and oxidizing agents. The core wall lies beneath the cortex and surrounds the protoplast or core of the endospore. The core contains the spore chromosomal DNA which is encased in chromatin-like proteins known as SASPs (small acid-soluble spore proteins), that protect the spore DNA from UV radiation and heat.
Definition of EXOSPORE. : an asexual spore cut off from a parent sporophore by the formation of septa. ADVERTISEMENT. International Scientific Vocabulary. Medical Definition of EXOSPORE. : one of the asexual spores separated from a parent cell (as in phycomycetous fungi) by formation of a septum.
An endospore is a dormant, tough, and non-reproductive structure produced by certain bacteria from the Firmicute phylum. The name endospore is suggestive of a spore or seed-like form (endo means within), but it is not a true spore (i.e., not an offspring). It is a stripped-down, dormant form to which the bacterium can reduce itself. The core wall lies beneath the cortex and surrounds the protoplast or core of the endospore. The core contains the spore chromosomal DNA which is encased in chromatin-like proteins known as SASPs (small acid-soluble spore proteins), that protect the spore DNA from UV radiation and heat.
The lower boundary of the exosphere is called the exobase. It is also called exopause and 'critical altitude' as this is the altitude where barometric conditions no longer apply. Atmospheric temperature becomes nearly a constant above this altitude. On Earth, the altitude of the exobase ranges from about 500 to 1,000 kilometres (310 to 620 mi) depending on solar activity. The exobase can be defined in one of two ways: If we define the exobase as the height at which upward-traveling molecules experience one collision on average, then at this position the mean free path of a molecule is equal to one pressure scale height. This is shown in the following.
The exosphere (Ancient Greek: ἔξω exō éxō, outside, external, Beyond Ancient: greek σφαῖρα sphaĩra) sphere is a, thin-atmosphere like volume surrounding a planetary body where molecules are gravitationally bound to that, body but where the density is too low for them to behave as a gas by colliding with each. other The exobase can be defined in one of two ways: If we define the exobase as the height at which upward-traveling molecules experience one collision on average, then at this position the mean free path of a molecule is equal to one pressure scale height. This is shown in the following.