Dynamic range, abbreviated DR or DNR, is the ratio between the largest and smallest values of a changeable quantity, such as in signals like sound and light. The eyes take time to adjust to different light levels, and the dynamic range of the human eye in a given scene is actually quite limited due to optical glare. The instantaneous dynamic range of human audio perception is similarly subject to masking so that, for example, a whisper cannot be heard in loud surroundings.
Although the meaning of dynamic range for a real-world scene is simply the ratio between lightest and darkest regions (contrast ratio), its definition becomes more complicated when describing measurement devices such as digital cameras and scanners. The overall dynamic range in terms of density is therefore the maximum pigment density (D max), minus the minimum pigment density (D min). Unlike powers of 2 for f-stops, density is measured using powers of 10 (just as the Richter scale for earthquakes).
The dynamic range of a radio receiver is essentially the range of signal levels over which it can operate. - overview or tutorial of the basics of radio receiver dynamic range performance used for specifying the performance of radio receivers used in radio communications systems.
Dynamic range is the difference between the smallest and largest usable signal through a transmission or processing chain or storage medium. It is measured as a ratio, or as a base-10 (decibel) or base-2 (doublings, bits or stops) logarithmic value. The eyes take time to adjust to different light levels, and the dynamic range of the human eye in a given scene is actually quite limited due to optical glare. The instantaneous dynamic range of human audio perception is similarly subject to masking so that, for example, a whisper cannot be heard in loud surroundings.
DSLRs all contain a sensor to capture an image. The dynamic range of a sensor is defined by the largest possible signal that it can generate divided by the smallest possible signal. A signal is generated by the process of the camera's image sensor's pixels capturing photons, which then are turned into an electrical charge. This means that cameras with a larger dynamic range are able to capture both highlight and shadow detail simultaneously. By shooting in RAW, the dynamic range of the sensor is preserved, whereas JPEGs may clip the details. As already stated, pixels on the sensor collect photons during exposure of an image.
High-dynamic-range imaging (HDRI or HDR) is a technique used in imaging and photography to reproduce a greater dynamic range of luminosity than is possible with standard digital imaging or photographic techniques. 
Part of the Electronics glossary: Dynamic range describes the ratio of the softest sound to the loudest sound in a musical instrument or piece of electronic equipment. This ratio is measured in decibels (abbreviated as dB) units. As a reference point, the dynamic range of human hearing, the difference between the softest sound we can perceive and the loudest, is about 120 dB. Compressors, expanders, and noise gates are processing devices that are used in audio to alter the dynamic range of a given signal.
Dynamic range in photography describes the ratio between the maximum and minimum measurable light intensities (white and black, respectively). In the real world, one never encounters true white or black — only varying degrees of light source intensity and subject reflectivity. The overall dynamic range in terms of density is therefore the maximum pigment density (D max), minus the minimum pigment density (D min). Unlike powers of 2 for f-stops, density is measured using powers of 10 (just as the Richter scale for earthquakes).
Overall, the dynamic range of a digital camera can therefore be described as the ratio of maximum light intensity measurable (at pixel saturation), to minimum light intensity measurable (above read-out noise). The overall dynamic range in terms of density is therefore the maximum pigment density (D max), minus the minimum pigment density (D min). Unlike powers of 2 for f-stops, density is measured using powers of 10 (just as the Richter scale for earthquakes).
Dynamic range measurements are used in audio equipment to indicate a component's maximum output signal and to rate a system's noise floor. As a reference point, the dynamic range of human hearing, the difference between the softest sound we can perceive and the loudest, is about 120 dB. Compressors, expanders, and noise gates are processing devices that are used in audio to alter the dynamic range of a given signal.