1 Odorant molecules (molecules that we can smell) dissolve in the mucus and. 2  bind to receptors on the cilia. 3  These are 7-pass transmembrane proteins. 4  Binding of the odorant activates a G protein coupled to the receptor on its cytoplasmic side. 1 bind to receptors on the cilia. 2  These are 7-pass transmembrane proteins. 3  Binding of the odorant activates a G protein coupled to the receptor on its cytoplasmic side. 4  This activates adenylyl cyclase, an enzyme embedded in the plasma membrane of
Taste and Smell Receptors. Chemoreceptors are responsible for the detection of chemicals in our environment. From the ability to taste and enjoy a piece of candy to the pleasure of perfume, these receptors transmit the information. Sweet, salty and sour tastes are dependent on these receptors. 
Smell. The nose is the organ responsible for the sense of smell. The cavity of the nose is lined with mucous membranes that have smell receptors connected to the olfactory nerve. The smells themselves consist of vapors of various substances. Aristotle (384 BC - 322 BC) is credited with the traditional classification of the five sense organs: sight, smell, taste, touch, and hearing. As far back as the 1760's, the famous philosopher Immanuel Kant proposed that our knowledge of the outside world depends on our modes of perception.
The chemoreceptors of taste and smell are closely related; in fact one receptor type, the Lewis acid receptor is common to both the taste (gustatory) and smell (olfactory) modalities. 
The sense of smell, just like the sense of taste, is a chemical sense. They are called chemical senses because they detect chemicals in the environment, with the difference being that smell works at dramatically larger distances than that of taste. The process of smelling goes more or less like this: The olfactory bulb is one of the structures of the limbic system and a very ancient part of the brain. As mentioned in the previous description of the olfactory process, the information captured by the sense of smell goes from the olfactory bulb to other structures of the limbic system.
The sensory receptors involved in taste and smell contain receptor molecules that bind to specific chemicals. Odor receptors in olfactory receptor neurons, for example, are activated by interacting with molecular structures on the odor molecule. Similarly, taste receptors (gustatory receptors) in taste buds interact with chemicals in food to produce an action potential.
1 The cilia of the sensory neurons are immersed in a layer of mucus. 2  Odorant molecules (molecules that we can smell) dissolve in the mucus and. 3  bind to receptors on the cilia. 4  These are 7-pass transmembrane proteins. 5  Binding of the odorant activates a G protein coupled to the receptor on its cytoplasmic side. 1 bind to receptors on the cilia. 2  These are 7-pass transmembrane proteins. 3  Binding of the odorant activates a G protein coupled to the receptor on its cytoplasmic side. 4  This activates adenylyl cyclase, an enzyme embedded in the plasma membrane of
Olfaction, along with taste, is a form of chemoreception. The chemicals themselves that activate the olfactory system, in general at very low concentrations, are called odorants. Although taste and smell are separate sensory systems in land animals, water-dwelling organisms often have one chemical sense. The binding of the ligand (odor molecule or odorant) to the receptor leads to an action potential in the receptor neuron, via a second messenger pathway, depending on the organism.
Taste is the ability to respond to dissolved molecules and ions called tastants. Humans detect taste with taste receptor cells. These are clustered in taste buds and scattered in other areas of the body. Each taste bud has a pore that opens out to the surface of the tongue enabling molecules and ions taken into the mouth to reach the receptor cells inside. 1  salty. 1 These are transmembrane proteins which. 2  admit the ions that give rise to the sensation of salty; 3  bind to the molecules that give rise to the sensations of sweet, bitter, and umami. 4  A single taste cell seems to be restricted to expressing only a single type of receptor (except for bitter receptors).
Olfaction or the sense of smell involves chemicals. The receptors for smell are the olfactory hair cells located on the roof of each nasal cavity in a path of cells called the olfactory epithelium or membrane. Odors or scents chemical vapors. Chemoreceptor cells (neurons) perceive the chemicals as they vaporize. 