“Peripheral nerve” is a term used synonymously to describe the peripheral nervous system. The peripheral nervous system is a network of 43 pairs of motor and sensory nerves that connect the brain and spinal cord (the central nervous system) to the entire human body. These nerves control the functions of sensation, movement and motor coordination. The peripheral nervous system includes the following nerves: 1  Brachial plexus nerve – This nerve is actually a network of nerves that consists of the last 4 cervical nerve roots (vertebrae C5-C8) and the first thoracic (vertebrae T1) nerve root, and ensures motion and feeling in the upper limbs.
The Brain. Once a pain signal reaches the brain, a number of things can happen. Certain parts of the brain stem (which connects the brain to the spinal cord) can inhibit or muffle incoming pain signals by the production of endorphins, which are morphine-like substances that occur naturally in the human body. Pain messages may also be directed along a variety of pathways in the brain. 1  For instance, a fast pain message (A-delta fiber) is relayed by the spinal cord to specific locations in the brain, namely the thalamus and cerebral cortex.
Pain messages travel along the peripheral nervous system until they reach the spinal cord. The gate control theory proposes that there are gates on the bundle of nerve fibers in the spinal cord between the peripheral nerves and the brain. These spinal nerve gates control the flow of pain messages from the peripheral nerves to the brain. Pain messages may also be directed along a variety of pathways in the brain. 1  For instance, a fast pain message (A-delta fiber) is relayed by the spinal cord to specific locations in the brain, namely the thalamus and cerebral cortex.
Usually, it's damage from a physical injury or disease. 1  Cancer and other tumors can cause nerve pain. 2  As they grow, tumors can press on the surrounding nerves. 3  Cancers can also grow out of the nerves themselves. 4  Sometimes, treatments for cancer -- such as chemotherapy drugs -- can damage the nerves, leading to pain. But in people with nerve pain, that messaging system isn't working correctly. Your brain receives a pain signal, and you feel the pain, but there's no actual cause. Now, it's just pain without a purpose -- and because there's no cause, there's no immediate way to relieve it.
Damage can occur to nerves in your brain and spinal cord. It can also occur in the peripheral nerves, which are located throughout the rest of your body. Autonomic nerve damage may produce the following symptoms: 1  Inability to sense chest pain, such as angina or heart attack. 1 Motor neuron diseases. 2  The motor neurons are nerves in your brain and spinal column that communicate with the muscles throughout your body. 3  Diseases that affect these nerves, including amyotrophic lateral sclerosis or Lou Gehrig’s disease, can result in progressively worsening nerve damage. 4  Nutritional deficiencies.
Since the brain is the epicenter of pain in the body, natural and medicinal strategies to relieve discomfort often focus there. For example, when you stub your toe, skin receptors send electrical signals through nerve fibers to the spinal cord and then up to the brain. 
1 These nerves control your movements and actions by passing information from your brain and spinal cord to your muscles. 2  Sensory nerves. 3  These nerves relay information from your skin and muscles back to your spinal cord and brain. 4  The information is then processed to let you feel pain and other sensations. Autonomic nerve damage may produce the following symptoms: 1  Inability to sense chest pain, such as angina or heart attack. 2  Too much sweating (known as hyperhidrosis) or too little sweating (known as anhidrosis). 3  Lightheadedness.
Our nerves carry pain signals to the brain about damage to parts of the body, but nerves can also be a cause of pain themselves. This can be from damage to nerves because of medical conditions, through injury or pressure, such as a trapped nerve. 1 Motor neuron diseases. 2  The motor neurons are nerves in your brain and spinal column that communicate with the muscles throughout your body. 3  Diseases that affect these nerves, including amyotrophic lateral sclerosis or Lou Gehrig’s disease, can result in progressively worsening nerve damage. 4  Nutritional deficiencies.
Damage can occur to nerves in your brain and spinal cord. It can also occur in the peripheral nerves, which are located throughout the rest of your body. Autonomic nerve damage may produce the following symptoms: 1  Inability to sense chest pain, such as angina or heart attack. 2  Too much sweating (known as hyperhidrosis) or too little sweating (known as anhidrosis). 3  Lightheadedness.