Not to be confused with Sodium bicarbonate. Potassium bicarbonate (also known as potassium hydrogen carbonate or potassium acid carbonate) is a colorless, odorless, slightly basic, salty substance. According to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), potassium bicarbonate is  generally recognized as safe . 
Definition of POTASSIUM CARBONATE. : a white salt K2CO3 that forms a strongly alkaline solution and is used in making glass and soap. ADVERTISEMENT. noun. noun. : a white salt K2CO3 that forms a strongly alkaline solution and was formerly used as a systemic alkalizer and diuretic and that is now used chiefly
History [edit]. Potassium carbonate was first identified in 1742 by Antonio Campanella and is the primary component of potash and the more refined pearl ash or salts of tartar. Historically, pearl ash was created by baking potash in a kiln to remove impurities. The fine, white powder remaining was the pearl ash. 1 The process of adding potassium carbonate to cocoa powder is usually called Dutching, or Dutch-processed cocoa powder, as the process was first developed in 1828 by Coenrad Johannes van Houten, a Dutchman. 2  as a buffering agent in the production of mead or wine.
Potassium carbonate was first identified in 1742 by Antonio Campanella and is the primary component of potash and the more refined pearl ash or salts of tartar. Historically, pearl ash was created by baking potash in a kiln to remove impurities. 1 The process of adding potassium carbonate to cocoa powder is usually called Dutching, or Dutch-processed cocoa powder, as the process was first developed in 1828 by Coenrad Johannes van Houten, a Dutchman. 2  as a buffering agent in the production of mead or wine.
Medical Definition of POTASSIUM CARBONATE. : a white salt K2CO3 that forms a strongly alkaline solution and was formerly used as a systemic alkalizer and diuretic and that is now used chiefly in making glass and soap. noun
Potassium carbonate is the primary component of Potash, which has been used from early history in textile bleaching, glass manufacture and soap production. In 1742, Potassium carbonate was first identified by Antonio Campanella as the primary component of potash. Potassium carbonate is also called as Carbonate of Potash, Dipotassium carbonate, Dipotassium salt, Pearl ash, Potash and salt of tartar. Read more ......
Potassium carbonate (K2CO3) is commonly known as potash. It is a white mineral salt used to create alkaline aqueous solutions. It is used for many types of industrial processes, including production of foods and chemical fertilizers. 
Potassium bicarbonate is produced by reacting potassium carbonate with carbon dioxide, then recrystallizing it. All equipment from production to packaging is dedicated solely to potassium bicarbonate. OxyChem sells potassium bicarbonate in the international market through its International Sales Department. 
Potassium Carbonate Poisoning. Potassium carbonate is a white powder used to make soap, glass, and other items. This article discusses poisoning from swallowing or breathing in potassium carbonate. This is for information only and not for use in the treatment or management of an actual poison exposure. 
Noun. 1. potassium carbonate-a white salt (K2CO3) that is basic in solution; used to make glass and cleansing agents. carbonate-a salt or ester of carbonic acid (containing the anion CO3). pearl ash-an impure form of potassium carbonate. potassium carbonate. n. 1. (Elements & Compounds) a white odourless substance used in making glass and soft soap and as an alkaline cleansing agent.