salt. Pat the lamb dry with paper towels, then combine the mint, rosemary, garlic and enough oil to make a runny paste, and smear it all over the lamb. Sprinkle with salt. If you have time, cover and refrigerate it for a few hours, or overnight. Heat a large, heavy skillet with a drizzle of oil over medium-high heat and brown the lamb on all sides. Transfer to a slow cooker and cook on low for 8 hours. To make a quick mint sauce that’s better than any that comes in a bottle, simmer equal parts sugar, rice or white wine vinegar and water – I used 1/3 cup of each – until the sugar dissolves, then add a handful of chopped fresh mint and let it steep. Voila – one minute mint sauce. Add roasted potatoes + peas.
Directions. Prep. Cook. Ready In. 1  Bring leg of lamb to room temperature, about 2 hours. 2  Pour wine into a slow cooker. 3  Mix lemon juice, honey, mustard, garlic, vinegar, rosemary, thyme, sea salt, and pepper together in a bowl until a thick paste forms. 4  Massage paste into the lamb using your hands; gently place into the slow cooker
Use tongs or a meat fork to turn the roast so that all sides can be browned and seared. Place the seared roast in the slow cooker. Sprinkle chopped rosemary over the entire roast, turning with the tongs or fork to cover the entire roast. Place the lid on the slow cooker and turn the heat on low. Allow the lamb to cook for six to eight hours in the slow cooker. Check the internal temperature of the roast with a meat thermometer. The meat is done when the temperature reads 150 degrees. 
1 Using the crock pot's ceramic dish, mix together oil, lemon juice, garlic, oregano and nutmeg. 2  Immerse leg of lamb into the mixture and cook on high for 6- 8 hours until falling apart. Directions. 1  Using the crock pot's ceramic dish, mix together oil, lemon juice, garlic, oregano and nutmeg. 2  Immerse leg of lamb into the mixture and cook on high for 6- 8 hours until falling apart.
Leg of Lamb in the Slow Cooker with Mint, Rosemary & Garlic – Dinner With Julie Dinner With Julie Leg of Lamb in the Slow Cooker with Mint, Rosemary & Garlic – Dinner With Julie. on 01 Jan 2015 at 9:46 am #. Amazing, I like it! Why didn’t I find it in my Redmond 4502 multicoooker’s cook book – it’s enough old recipe. To make a quick mint sauce that’s better than any that comes in a bottle, simmer equal parts sugar, rice or white wine vinegar and water – I used 1/3 cup of each – until the sugar dissolves, then add a handful of chopped fresh mint and let it steep. Voila – one minute mint sauce. Add roasted potatoes + peas.
1 Add the diced onion, carrots, parsnips and garlic to the slow cooker. 2  Nestle the browned boneless leg of lamb into the vegetable mixture. 3  Pour over the beef broth and set the timer to 8 hours on low. 4  Let cook and, when done, serve with some of the slow cooked vegetables and roast potatoes on the side. Instructions. 1  In either a slow cooker insert that is okay to use on the stove or in a large skillet over medium high heat, add one tablespoon of olive oil. 2  Brown the lamb on all sides and set aside. 3 
1 Bring leg of lamb to room temperature, about 2 hours. 2  Pour wine into a slow cooker. 3  Mix lemon juice, honey, mustard, garlic, vinegar, rosemary, thyme, sea salt, and pepper together in a bowl until a thick paste forms. 4  Massage paste into the lamb using your hands; gently place into the slow cooker. Ready In. 1 
This slow cooker leg of lamb is slathered in a wholegrain mustard and honey coating and studded with garlic and rosemary. Slide it into the slow cooker in the morning and come home to a delicious dinner! serves: 6 | prep: 0:10. ingredients. 1  1 leg of lamb, bone in or deboned. 2  6 cloves garlic, sliced. 
1 Immerse leg of lamb into the mixture and cook on high for 6- 8 hours until falling apart. 2  Just before removing meat from crock pot, mix together mint, sugar and vinegar in dish and microwave for 30 seconds until vinegar is hot enough to melt sugar. Directions. 1  Using the crock pot's ceramic dish, mix together oil, lemon juice, garlic, oregano and nutmeg. 2  Immerse leg of lamb into the mixture and cook on high for 6- 8 hours until falling apart.