b. Lack of a common identity and purpose in a conglomerate organization. A conglomerate will be successful only if it has high quality of management and financial ability at head office where diverse operations are brought together. c. Failure in one business will drag down the rest. d. Lack of management experience.. The disadvantage of diversification is that a portfolio focused on a single sector or stock can have some super growth, naturally this comes with increased risk. Another disadvantage is that diversification can be difficult for small investors.
The advantages and disadvantages of conglomerate diversification are as follows: Advantages of conglomerate diversification a. Risk spreading? entering new products into … new markets offers protection against failure of current products and markets. Conglomerate diversification occurs when a firm diversifies into areas that are unrelated to its current line of business. Synergy may result through the application of management expertise or financial resources, but the primary purpose of conglomerate diversification is improved profitability of the acquiring firm.
Given below are some of the advantages and disadvantages of conglomerate merger. Advantages of Conglomerate Merger. 1  The first and foremost advantage of conglomerate merger is that it helps the company in diversification hence a company is less vulnerable to losses due to decline in sales in one sector or industry. As one can see from the above that conglomerate merger has both advantages and disadvantages and the decision of conglomerate merger is completely dependent on the financials of takeover target and mindset of the management of the acquiring company.
This forms a group of companies that usually involves a single parent company and different subsidiaries. However, in a conglomerate, diversification of the business in the companies is normal practice, and usually these companies depict a multi-industry corporate structure. These corporate structures are often multinational. Advantages: 1  Due to diversification, conglomerates can reduce their investment risk. 2  These structures can create a capital market within the group to allow growth of the conglomerate.
An important and essential form of diversification that helps in building the internal structure of any firm or business is termed as conglomerate diversification. Conglomerate diversification helps in evaluating and preparing the business unit portfolio based on the financial position of the firm. This type of diversification is entirely different from concentric diversification.
Conglomerate diversification occurs when a firm diversifies into areas that are unrelated to its current line of business. Synergy may result through the application of management expertise or financial resources, but the primary purpose of conglomerate diversification is improved profitability of the acquiring firm. Probably the biggest disadvantage of a conglomerate diversification strategy is the increase in administrative problems associated with operating unrelated businesses. Managers from different divisions may have different backgrounds and may be unable to work together effectively.
Conglomerate diversification is somehow an opposite to concentric diversification and thus it focus on financials and keep them evaluating in order to improve the financial position of the firm or businesses. An example related to the company that is termed as conglomerates is: Philip Morris. Conglomerate diversification helps in evaluating and preparing the business unit portfolio based on the financial position of the firm. This type of diversification is entirely different from concentric diversification.
Conglomerate is a term that is used for tow or more than two corporations that are involved in different set of businesses in one single corporate structure. They are generally large and huge companies. There are various advantages as well as disadvantages of conglomerate diversification. Conglomerate diversification helps in evaluating and preparing the business unit portfolio based on the financial position of the firm. This type of diversification is entirely different from concentric
1 The first and foremost advantage of conglomerate merger is that it helps the company in diversification hence a company is less vulnerable to losses due to decline in sales in one sector or industry. As one can see from the above that conglomerate merger has both advantages and disadvantages and the decision of conglomerate merger is completely dependent on the financials of takeover target and mindset of the management of the acquiring company.
Disadvantages of conglomerate diversification a. The dilution of shareholders earnings if diversification is into growth industries with high P/E ratios. b. Lack of a common identity and purpose in a conglomerate organization. Conglomerate diversification occurs when a firm diversifies into areas that are unrelated to its current line of business. Synergy may result through the application of management expertise or financial resources, but the primary purpose of conglomerate diversification is improved profitability of the acquiring firm.