Gladiolus Hybrid Groups. Gladiolus hybrids included in the Nanus group begin to bloom in early summer. They produce two to three stems or spikes from one corm. The stems grow between 9 and 14 inches tall with three to five flowers open at the same time. Hybrids included in the Primulinus group begin to bloom in midsummer. Gladioli are long-lasting cut flowers, but determining exactly how long they will last in a vase is difficult. Proper cutting, handling and care of the flowers make them last longer. Cut the flowers in the evening or late afternoon when the first two buds change color or begin to open.
You might think that Gladiolus grow from bulbs....wrong! They actually grow from a closely related cousin, the corm. See more on Bulbs, Corms and Rhizomes. How to Grow Gladiolus Bulbs : Plant Gladiolus in the spring. They can be grown in rows, or bunches. They will tolerate a little crowding, but will grow bigger if spaced out. Gladiolus plants prefer a rich, soft soil, and plenty of water. 
Growth Time. Caladium plants reach full size, up to 3 feet tall, in one season. The size of the plant and the leaves depend on the size of the tuber. Seeds take one to three months to germinate before the plant begins to grow. Grown from tubers, leaves usually emerge within three to four weeks. Caladiums do not begin to grow until the soil temperature reaches 70 F, so cooler soil will mean a longer wait for the plants to emerge. 
There are more than 10,000 gladiolus cultivars (Gladiolus spp.) with a range of plant sizes and flower attributes. The flowers can be large, medium or small with plain or ruffled petals in nearly any color or combination of colors. Gladioli are long-lasting cut flowers, but determining exactly how long they will last in a vase is difficult. Proper cutting, handling and care of the flowers make them last longer. Cut the flowers in the evening or late afternoon when the first two buds change color or begin to open.
1 Add a layer of unfertilized soil before placing the corm into the trench. 2  You should start your planting of your gladiolus in mid-spring. 3  From that point, make some new plantings every two weeks. 4  They take 70-100 days to grow and flower so planting every couple of weeks gives you flowers right on through summer. How to Care for Gladiolus in the Winter. Rather than leaving the corms in the ground to winter, you can dig the corms up for storage four to six weeks after you pick the flowers. 1  Dig the corm up and shake as much soil as you can off the corm. 2  Trim back the leaves to within an inch of the corm itself
1 You should start your planting of your gladiolus in mid-spring. 2  From that point, make some new plantings every two weeks. 3  They take 70-100 days to grow and flower so planting every couple of weeks gives you flowers right on through summer. 4  If these flowers will be exposed to wind, you will definitely want to stake them. How to Care for Gladiolus in the Winter. Rather than leaving the corms in the ground to winter, you can dig the corms up for storage four to six weeks after you pick the flowers. 1  Dig the corm up and shake as much soil as you can off the corm. 2  Trim back the leaves to within an inch of the corm itself
Gladiolus don't compete well with other plants or weeds, so for best results, keep the area around them open. Gladiolus can be planted about two weeks before the last expected spring frost. It will take 70 to 90 days from planting until flowering. For a continual harvest of flower spikes, plant a few corms every two weeks until early summer. Plant corms 2 to 6 inches deep, depending on their size, and cover with 2 inches of soil. Space corms 5 inches apart in rows or groups of 10 to 15 corms. Once the plants are about 6 inches high, hill up the soil around the base of the plant to help support the stem.
1 Plant gladiolus bulbs in the spring once danger of frost has passed and the soil has warmed. 2  Ready your garden by using a garden fork or tiller and loosen the soil to about 12 to 15 inches deep. Glads should be lifted in places that freeze (zone 7 and lower). If yours are in the ground, try to protect them with a greenhouse plastic covering. It will heat up the soil and speed the plant along while protecting from frost. If the corms are planted too soon in cold soil, they will rot.
1 Base the size of the corms that you purchase on the size of the glads you want to grow. 2  Choose corms with diameters of 1/2 to 3/4 inches (1.25 to 2 cm) to grow flowers from 2 to 3 feet (0.6 to 0.9 m). 3  Corms with diameters of 1 inch (2.5 cm) or greater grow larger flowers. 1 Avoid flat corms. 2  Base the size of the corms that you purchase on the size of the glads you want to grow. 3