A knee sprain is an injury to the ligaments in the knee, which are the tough, elastic-like bands in the knee that connect your bones together and hold your joints in place. A sprain can effect many of the ligaments in your knee by tearing the fibers of the tissues, which usually causes pain, swelling, and bruising. 
Answer: Well, when considering how long it might take for a sprain to heal, you need to consider that there are varying degrees of sprain injuries. There's a grade one, where the ligament that holds the joint in place is stretched. As you can imagine, that's going to really impact just how long it takes for that ligament to heal itself back together. General rule of thumb, say for ankle sprain, perhaps a grade one: two, three weeks; grade two: four weeks; and a grade three: sometimes four, six weeks -- sometimes longer. Comments. .
7. Get help from a doctor now ›. Sprain: That depends on what is sprained and the severity of injury. Minor sprain can be a few weeks. More severe injury can be months -- or never as may need surgery to fix (acl, meniscus, etc).
The average healing times are: (1) mild sprains – 2 to 6 weeks, (2) moderate sprain — 6 to 8 weeks, (3) severe sprains — 8 weeks to 10 months. The complications listed above are more likely to occur in the case of repeated injuries. 
2 Months 2 weeks ago, I went to the ER for severe knee pain and I was told that I had classic symptoms of a meniscus (sp) tear. I am still in pain, there is still some swelling, and it is still tender to the touch. I went to the employee wellness office since it was an on the job injury. I have had an X-ray (no... Ice causes blood vessels to constrict (get small) which helps decrease inflammation (swelling, pain, and redness). Put crushed ice in a plastic bag or use a bag of frozen corn or peas. Cover it with a towel. Put this on your knee for 15 to 20 minutes, three to four times each day.
5. Get help from a doctor now ›. Depends on severity: A sprained knee can range from a mild injury to the joint to severe injuries including tears of the ligaments. Recovery following mild injuries may be 1-3 weeks but can take up to 3 months for more significant injuries. Get help from a doctor now ›. Sprain: That depends on what is sprained and the severity of injury. Minor sprain can be a few weeks. More severe injury can be months -- or never as may need surgery to fix (acl, meniscus, etc).
Sprain: That depends on what is sprained and the severity of injury. Minor sprain can be a few weeks. More severe injury can be months -- or never as may need surgery to fix (acl, meniscus, etc). ...Read more. Get help from a doctor now ›. 3-6 weeks: A simple sprain usually takes 3-6 weeks to heal. If it persists or the pain is significant the knee should be evaluated by an orthopedist.
Mild to mod- 6-8 wks: Mild to moderate sprains of knee ligaments that are appropriately treated nonoperatively should generally heal in 6-8 weeks. Not all ligament sprains are the same, and actual time to healing will vary based upon severity. Most typical knee mcl sprains (grade 2-3) heal in 6-8 weeks. Get help from a doctor now ›. Sprain: That depends on what is sprained and the severity of injury. Minor sprain can be a few weeks. More severe injury can be months -- or never as may need surgery to fix (acl, meniscus, etc).