Introduction In today's laundry detergents, enzymes such as proteases and amylases are some of the active ingredients. Compare the effectiveness of the protease with your detergent. Also compare the cloth washed with your detergent with the other students' to see how effective your detergent is in cutting the stain. Simulate a warm (40ºC) and a cold (20ºC) wash cycle by repeating the above experiment at appropriate temperatures.
In the U.S., about 50% of liquid detergents, 25% of powder detergents, and almost all powdered bleach additives now contain enzymes to help break down stains that are otherwise hard to remove with conventional surfactants alone. Compare the effectiveness of the protease with your detergent. Also compare the cloth washed with your detergent with the other students' to see how effective your detergent is in cutting the stain. Simulate a warm (40ºC) and a cold (20ºC) wash cycle by repeating the above experiment at appropriate temperatures.
Life not only requires information, but the ability to control or catalyze chemical reactions. Proteins known as enzymes do this for all living things. Without enzymes, life would not be possible, even in the presence of DNA. 
A protease (also called peptidase or proteinase) is any enzyme that performs proteolysis, that is, begins protein catabolism by hydrolysis of the peptide bonds that link amino acids together in a polypeptide chain. Proteases have evolved multiple times, and different classes of protease can perform the same reaction by completely different catalytic mechanisms. Proteases can be found in animals, plants, bacteria, archaea and viruses.
Washing powders usually only contain one type of enzyme, though some have two or all three. A number of the enzymes in biological washing powders are proteases which can deal with stains such as blood, egg and gravy. The addition of an enzyme called cellulase to the washing powder breaks down micro fibrils on cotton, brightening the color of the washed clothes. There is a specific fit between an enzyme and its substrate, meaning that only a particular molecule will fit in the active site of an enzyme, thus each enzyme can only catalyze one kind of reaction that involves specific substrates.
Enzymes allow many chemical reactions to occur within the homeostasis constraints of a living system. Enzymes function as organic catalysts. A catalyst is a chemical involved in, but not changed by, a chemical reaction. Many enzymes function by lowering the activation energy of reactions. By bringing the reactants closer together, chemical bonds may be weakened and reactions will proceed faster than without the catalyst. The use of enzymes can lower the activation energy of a reaction (Ea).
Enzymes are biological molecules that catalyse (speed up) chemical reactions. Enzymes are specific—they will only work on particular molecules. For example, the enzyme sucrase will only bind with and break bonds in sucrose, not any other type of sugar. Another characteristic of enzymes is that they can be re-used over and over again. A single enzyme will typically catalyse around 10,000 chemical reactions per second. This means that only a tiny amount of enzyme is needed to have a huge effect on a reaction.
Enzymes lower the activation energy of desired reactions and therefore kick-starts them to get them rolling. Enzymes lower the activation energy of a reaction by binding one of the reactants, called a substrate, and holding it in a way that lowers the activation energy. Say, for instance, that the reaction is the event of hitting a baseball. Your bat needs to come into contact with the ball. 
Proteases are enzymes that break the peptide bond that joins amino acids together in proteins. They are examples of hydrolases, enzymes that break a chemical bond by the addition of a water molecule. 