If the latter, Amaryllis would be the correct name for the genus Hippeastrum, and a different name would have to be used for the genus discussed here. Alan W. Meerow et al. have briefly summarized the debate, which took place from 1938 onwards and involved botanists on both sides of the Atlantic. The name Amaryllis is taken from a shepherdess in Virgil 's pastoral Eclogues, (from the Greek ἀμαρύσσω (amarysso), meaning to sparkle) and also from Amarella for the bitterness of the bulb. The taxonomy of the genus has been controversial.
1 Amaryllis is a perennial flowering plant. 2  Amaryllis bulbs are 3-11 cm in diameter, and produce 3-7 long-lasting leaves of 10-60 cm long and 1-5 cm broad. 3  Amaryllis has narrow, flat leaves and with lily-like flowers borne on separate, leafless stalks. 1 Plant the Amaryllis with one-third to one-half of the bulb above the growing medium surface. 2  Plant bulbs about a foot apart and leave the tops less covered with soil. 3  The soil should be mulched to conserve moisture and help control weeds.
1 Plant the amaryllis bulbs in late September or early October. 2  Plant the Amaryllis with one-third to one-half of the bulb above the growing medium surface. 3  Plant bulbs about a foot apart and leave the tops less covered with soil. 4  The soil should be mulched to conserve moisture and help control weeds. 1 Plant the Amaryllis with one-third to one-half of the bulb above the growing medium surface. 2  Plant bulbs about a foot apart and leave the tops less covered with soil. 3
Amaryllis (/ˌaeməˈrɪlɨs/) ˌæməˈrɪlɨs is a small genus of flowering, bulbs with two. species The name Amaryllis is taken from a shepherdess in Virgil 's pastoral Eclogues, (from the Greek ἀμαρύσσω (amarysso), meaning to sparkle) and also from Amarella for the bitterness of the bulb. The taxonomy of the genus has been controversial.
The Belladonna lily or Amaryllis flower comes from the bulbous family, with bulbs that measure between 5 and 10 cm in diameter. With narrow and flat leaves and blooming flowers which resemble a lily, the Belladonna lily is a very popular plant first cultivated in the eighteenth century. If you want to plant Amaryllis in your own garden you should take into consideration some conditions. One of them is to plant them with a space of 20 to 30 cm and in a sunny environment, in the spring. A rich and moist soil is what these plants need to grow healthy.
Facts about Amaryllis. 1  Amaryllis is a perennial flowering plant. 2  Amaryllis bulbs are 3-11 cm in diameter, and produce 3-7 long-lasting leaves of 10-60 cm long and 1-5 cm broad. 3  Amaryllis has narrow, flat leaves and with lily-like flowers borne on separate, leafless stalks. 1 Plant the Amaryllis with one-third to one-half of the bulb above the growing medium surface. 2  Plant bulbs about a foot apart and leave the tops less covered with soil. 3  The soil should be mulched to conserve moisture and help control weeds.
Amaryllis Plant Info. Amaryllis is a monotypic (only one species) genus containing the Belladonna lily (Amaryllis belladonna), a native of South Africa. It is often confused with the Hippeastrum, a flowering bulb commonly sold for indoor blooming. The confusion surrounds the scientific name, Hippeastrum, and the common name, Amaryllis. Hippeastrum has 4-6 large flowers on a hollow stem; while Amaryllis belladonna has 2-12 smaller flowers on a solid stem. The leaves of the Belladonna lily are produced in the fall and die down by late spring. The bulb is then dormant until late summer.
Amaryllis is a bulbous plant, with each bulb being 5–10 cm in diameter. It has several strap-shaped, green leaves, 30–50 cm long and 2–3 cm broad, arranged in two rows. The name Amaryllis is taken from a shepherdess in Virgil 's pastoral Eclogues, (from the Greek ἀμαρύσσω (amarysso), meaning to sparkle) and also from Amarella for the bitterness of the bulb. The taxonomy of the genus has been controversial.
Plants of the genus Amaryllis are known as belladonna lily, Jersey lily, naked lady, amarillo, Easter lily in Southern Australia or, in South Africa, March lily due to its propensity to flower around March. The name Amaryllis is taken from a shepherdess in Virgil 's pastoral Eclogues, (from the Greek ἀμαρύσσω (amarysso), meaning to sparkle) and also from Amarella for the bitterness of the bulb. The taxonomy of the genus has been controversial.
Originating from South Africa, the Amaryllis flower commonly referred to as the Belladonna lily or even the naked ladies is a beautiful plant that impresses the florists with its pure aesthetic qualities. If you want to plant Amaryllis in your own garden you should take into consideration some conditions. One of them is to plant them with a space of 20 to 30 cm and in a sunny environment, in the spring. A rich and moist soil is what these plants need to grow healthy.