The cost of moving a house starts at about $12 to $16 per square foot but can quickly rise if the home is heavier, bigger or has farther to go [sources: McLinden, Burstein ]. One house builder estimates that moving a large home more than just a few miles can run about $150,000 to $200,000 [source: Fetters ]. In addition to the costs of the actual moving, these expenses should also be considered: 1  Cost of the new home, if you're not moving one that you already own.
Monroe Becker, who works for the structural moving company Unruh House Moving in Moundridge, Kan., says typical costs for the jobs he works on are $10,000 to $14,000, but would be a lot higher if the houses included brick.
Some houses are simply easier to move than others, explains Natalie Hammer, who runs Atlas Enterprises in Forest City, Iowa, with her husband, Chris Holland. Their typical price range for relocating a house is $8,000 to $30,000, but the cost will vary regionally. “It depends on the size of the house, how hard it is to get it up and onto the wheels, and how far you’re going,” she says. “It’s not a per-mile thing; it’s how difficult it is, and how heavy it is.
A total cost of between $8,000 and $40,000 just to actually move the house from the original site to the new site can be considered to be on the cheaper end of the spectrum with costs for moving bigger houses reaching up to hundreds of thousands.
The cost of moving the house will depend mainly on the time it takes, which depends in turn on the route to be travelled, the size of the house and the degree of difficulty. It can range from a few thousand dollars to move a single-piece house, with the price increasing for the number of pieces, location and
Most house moving companies want to physically inspect a house and the desired placement location before estimating the cost for them to move it. The cost for moving any size house can range between $12 and $16 per square foot, so obviously a smaller house with not a long distance to travel will be cheaper to move. The roads traveled during the move can add to the cost of the move.