boron trioxide. gallium oxide. indium oxide. thallium oxide. Aluminum Oxide is a chemical compound consisting of two aluminum ions and three oxygen ions demonstrated by the formula Al 2 O 3 Another commons name for aluminum oxide is aluminium oxide which is its proper name. It may also be referred to as aloxide, aloxite, or alundum. 
For other uses, see Aluminium oxide (compounds) . Aluminium oxide is a chemical compound of aluminium and oxygen with the chemical formula Al 2 O 3. It is the most commonly occurring of several aluminium oxides, and specifically identified as aluminium(III) oxide. Aluminium oxide is an amphoteric substance, meaning it can react with both acids and bases, such as hydrofluoric acid and sodium hydroxide, acting as an acid with a base and a base with an acid, neutralising the other and producing a salt.
Aluminum oxide, also called alumina, is used in engineering ceramics. It’s hard and wear-resistant, resists attacks by both acid and alkali substances, has high strength and stiffness, and has good thermal conductivity, which makes it valuable in manufacturing a variety of different ceramic products. Metallic aluminum is reactive with oxygen, which could cause corrosion to build up. However, when aluminum bonds with oxygen to form aluminum oxide, it creates a thin coating that protects it from oxidation. This keeps the aluminum from corroding and losing strength.
The most common use of aluminum oxide is in the production of metal aluminum. Metallic aluminum is reactive with oxygen, which could cause corrosion to build up. However, when aluminum bonds with oxygen to form aluminum oxide, it creates a thin coating that protects it from oxidation. This keeps the aluminum from corroding and losing strength. The thickness and other properties of the oxide layer can be changed by using the anodizing process
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Aluminium(I) oxide is a compound of aluminium and oxygen with the chemical formula Al 2 O. It can be prepared by heating the stable oxide Al2O3 with elemental silicon at 1800 °C under vacuum. Al 2 O commonly exists as a gas, since the solid state is not stable at room temperature and is only stable between 1050 and 1600 °C. Aluminium (I) Oxide is formed by heating Al and Al 2 O 3 in vacuo while in the presence of SiO 2 and C, and only by condensing the products.
Aluminum oxide is a common, naturally occurring compound that’s employed in various industries, most particularly in the production of aluminum. The compound is used in production of industrial ceramics. Its most common crystalline form, corundum, has several gem-quality variants, as well. Metallic aluminum is reactive with oxygen, which could cause corrosion to build up. However, when aluminum bonds with oxygen to form aluminum oxide, it creates a thin coating that protects it from oxidation. This keeps the aluminum from corroding and losing strength.
The Most Well-known Oxide Ceramic Material. Alumina or aluminum oxide (Al 2 O 3) in its various levels of purity is used more often than any other advanced ceramic material. CeramTec offers a wide range of material types with different property profiles that can be adjusted via a targeted matrix design. 
aluminum oxide, (Al 2 O 3), a compound occurring naturally as various minerals. It is used in the production of abrasives, refractories, ceramics, and catalysts and in chromatography. It is also used to strengthen dental ceramics. aluminum hydroxychloride aluminum chlorohydrate. aluminum oxide Al 2 O 3, occurring naturally as various minerals; used in the production of abrasives, refractories, ceramics, catalysts, to strengthen dental ceramics, and in chromatography.