Wavelength is usually measured in meters (m). Frequency is the number of cycles of a wave to pass some point in a second. The units of frequency are thus cycles per second, or Hertz (Hz). In fact, X-rays and gamma-rays are usually described in terms of energy, optical and infrared light in terms of wavelength, and radio in terms of frequency.
Electromagnetic waves can be described by their wavelengths, energy, and frequency. All three of these things describe a different property of light, yet they are related to each other mathematically. This means that it is correct to talk about the energy of an X-ray or the wavelength of a microwave or the frequency of a radio wave. In fact, X-rays and gamma-rays are usually described in terms of energy, optical and infrared light in terms of wavelength, and radio in terms of frequency.
The higher the frequency, the shorter (lower) the wavelength. Energy is proportional to frequency, and higher frequency wa … ves will have a higher energy.   Mathematically, frequency = 1 divided by wavelength, or f = 1/λ   Use the link below for more information, including a diagram or two to make things clearer. Frequency is inversely proportional to wavelength (higher frequency means a shorter wavelength). Frequency is directly proportional to the energy of the wave (higher frequenc … ies correspond to higher energies). 2 people found this useful.
The relationship between wavelength and energy depends on the type of wave. For electromagnetic waves, the shorter wavelengths are associated with higher energy levels. Electr … omagnetic energy travels in waves, and the length of the wave is inversely proportional to the energy the wave carries. You can just use frequency to calculate energy E=hf  where E=energy h=planck's constant=6.626×10−34 J/s f= frequency   But if you are given the wavelength, you migh … t need this:  since v= λ x f  where v=speed λ=wavelength f=frequency and v=c= speed of light=3x108m/s  Hence, E= hf= h(c÷λ).
Given the relationship between wavelength and frequency — the higher the frequency, the shorter the wavelength — it follows that short wavelengths are more energetic than long wavelengths. HubbleSite and STScI are not responsible for content found outside of hubblesite.org and stsci.edu. 
Related to the energy and frequency is the wavelength, or the distance between corresponding points on subsequent waves. You can measure wavelength from peak to peak or from trough to trough. Shorter waves move faster and have more energy, and longer waves travel more slowly and have less energy. The lower the frequency is, the less energy in the wave. Following the above examples, gamma rays have very high energy and radio waves are low-energy. When it comes to light waves, violet is the highest energy color and red is the lowest energy color.
The wavelength and frequency of light are closely related. The higher the frequency, the shorter the wavelength. Because all light waves move through a vacuum at the same speed, the number of wave crests passing by a given point in one second depends on the wavelength. 
These vibrations are measured in wavelength and frequency. The wavelength of a vibration is the distance over which a wave repeats, so the greater the wavelength, the greater the energy. You can just use frequency to calculate energy E=hf  where E=energy h=planck's constant=6.626×10−34 J/s f= frequency   But if you are given the wavelength, you migh … t need this:  since v= λ x f  where v=speed λ=wavelength f=frequency and v=c= speed of light=3x108m/s  Hence, E= hf= h(c÷λ).
The amount of energy is inversely related to the wavelength of the radiation: the shorter the wavelength, the greater the energy of each photon. This was originally discovered by Max Planck who identified a co-effiecient of proportionality that related a photon's energy to its frequency. Frequency is inversely proportional to wavelength (higher frequency means a shorter wavelength). Frequency is directly proportional to the energy of the wave (higher frequenc … ies correspond to higher energies). 2 people found this useful.