Grassland are further broken down into two groups, including prairie and steppes. Prairies feature tall species of grass while steppes include short grass types. Most temperate grasslands receive just 10 to 30 inches of rain each year with most of it occurring in late spring and early summer.
Temperate grasslands are located north of the Tropic of Cancer (23.5 degrees North) and south of the Tropic of Capricorn (23.5 degrees South). The major temperate grasslands include the veldts of Africa, the pampas of South America, the steppes of Eurasia, and the plains of North America. Climate. Temperate grasslands have hot summers and cold winters. Summer temperatures can be well over 100 degrees Fahrenheit, while winter temperatures can be as low as -40 degrees Fahrenheit. They typically have between 10 and 35 inches of precipitation a year, much of it occurring in the late spring and early summer.
Intresting Facts. -About one quarter of the earth's land is in the grasslands. -Grasslands receive about 10 to 30 inches of rain per year, depending ontheir location in the world. If they received more rain, the grasslands wouldbecome a forest. If they received less, they would become a desert
Rain in the temperate grasslands usually occurs in the late spring and early summer. The yearly average is about 20 - 35 inches (55 - 95 cm), but much of this falls as snow in the winter. Fire is not foreign in temperate grasslands. They are often set by lightning or human activity. In North America we call temperate grasslands prairies. Major grasslands in North America are the Great Plains of the Midwest, The Palouse Prairie of eastern Washington State, and other grasslands in the southwest.
Two major types of grasslands exist in the world: tropical and temperate. The temperate grasslands are the more arid of the two types and, as a result, their grasses grow shorter than in tropical areas. 
Rainfall: Rainfall is generally less in temperate grasslands than in tropical savannas, although drought usually plays less of a roll effecting biodiversity than it does in savannas. Rain usually falls in temperate grasslands in the late spring and early summer. There is an average of 20 – 35 inches of rainfall a year. The amount of rainfall however determines the height of grasses in the grassland.
Tropical and temperate are the two kinds of grasslands. Tropical grasslands experience warm weather all year long while temperate grasslands are warm part of the year and very cold during the other part. Grasslands are perfect for cropping and pasturing because its soil runs deep and is extremely fertile. The grasses in the tropical grassland biome tend to be taller than that of the temperate because of the constant warm weather and additional rainfall it receives. Since grassland biomes have rich soil, much of them are used for farming. There is only 2% of the original grassland left in North America.
Most temperate grasslands are located in Africa, South America, Hungary, Russia and North America. Most of the grasslands exist north of the Tropic of Cancer at 23.5 degrees north in latitude and south of the Tropic of Capricorn at 23.5 degrees south in latitude. Prairies feature tall species of grass while steppes include short grass types. Most temperate grasslands receive just 10 to 30 inches of rain each year with most of it occurring in late spring and early summer.
Temperate Grasslands. Temperate grasslands and savannas are two types of grassland biomes. Like savannas, temperate grasslands are areas of open grassland with very few trees. Temperate grasslands, however are located in colder climate regions and receive less precipitation on average than savannas. 