The gender pay gap (also known as gender wage gap, male–female income difference, gender gap in earnings, gender earnings gap, gender income difference) is the difference between male and female earnings expressed as a percentage of male earnings, according to the OECD. In addition to the dispute over the causes of the portion of the wage gap attributed to measurable known factors such as job position, hours worked, experience, and education, there is disagreement on what factors explain the remaining 5–7%.
Direct discrimination. 1  Some women are paid less than men for doing the same job. 2  This factor only explains a small part of the gender pay gap, due to the effectiveness of the European Union and national legislation. 1 The gender pay gap is also reinforced by the segregation in the labour market. 2  Women and men still tend to work in different jobs. 3  On the one hand, women and men often predominate in different sectors. 4  On the other hand, within the same sector or company women predominate in lower valued and lower paid occupations.
“These gender wage gaps are not about women choosing to work less than men -- the analysis is comparing apples to apples, men and women who all work full time -- and we see that across these 40 common occupations, men nearly always earn more than women.. The pay gap starts right out of college. 
Education International: The Gender Pay Gap – reasons and implications 2 between the wages of women and men. In the United States the pay gap is also very persistent and has only declined slightly (ILO 2009). Education International: The Gender Pay Gap – reasons and implications 1 The Gender Pay Gap – reasons and implications This paper is the second of ten features for EI’s campaign “Pay Equity Now”.
4. Motherhood is associated with a wage penalty and lower future career earnings. One reason the gender wage gap has narrowed faster among younger women is that between 1980 and 2013, the median age of first birth rose from 22.6 to 26.0. Because motherhood is associated with a wage penalty and lower wage gains later in a woman’s career these delays in childbirth have helped narrow the pay gap
1 Some women are paid less than men for doing the same job. 2  This factor only explains a small part of the gender pay gap, due to the effectiveness of the European Union and national legislation. 1 The gender pay gap is also reinforced by the segregation in the labour market. 2  Women and men still tend to work in different jobs. 3  On the one hand, women and men often predominate in different sectors. 4  On the other hand, within the same sector or company women predominate in lower valued and lower paid occupations.
This is less clear but perhaps more troubling. More than 40 percent of the gender wage gap is “unexplained,” meaning that there is no obvious measureable reason for a difference in pay. This leaves us with possible explanations that range from overt sexism to unintentional gender-based discrimination to reluctance among women to negotiate for higher pay. 
Compared with salary information for white male workers, Asian American women’s salaries show the smallest gender pay gap, at 90 percent of white men’s earnings. The gap was largest for Hispanic and Latina women, who were paid only 54 percent of what white men were paid in 2014 (Figure 4). The gender pay gap is worse for mothers, and it only grows with age. Women in every state experience the pay gap, but in some states it’s worse than others. Women face a pay gap in nearly every occupation.
1 Asian American women experience the smallest gender pay gap: In 2013 they took home 90 percent of white men’s earnings (a 3 percent increase from 2012). 2  The gap is largest for Hispanic and Latina women, who were paid only 54 percent of what white men were paid in 2013 (a 1 percent increase from 2012). And the big pay gap number makes clear that, for whatever reason, women are making less money than men. Period. Of course AAUW is also interested in the reasons behind the pay gap. That’s why in 2012 we published a report that made an apples-to-apples comparison.