—mumble noun [countable]. Definition from the Longman Dictionary of Contemporary English. Advanced Learner's Dictionary. Dictionary results for mumble. Dictionary pictures of the day.
› to ​speak ​quietly or in an ​unclear way so that the words are ​difficult to ​understand: [T] She mumbled something about ​needing to be ​home, then ​left. [I] He often mumbles, and I never ​know what he’s ​asking me. (Definition of mumble from the Cambridge Academic Content Dictionary © Cambridge University Press). The Cambridge English Dictionary is constantly being updated and expanded to reflect the interests of our users. One area of particular interest to our users is that of English Language Teaching (ELT), and a number of ELT terms have recently been added to the dictionary.
Thesaurus. The thesaurus of synonyms and related words is fully integrated into the dictionary. Click on the thesaurus category heading under the button in an entry to see the synonyms and related words for that meaning. to say something in a way that is not loud or clear enough so that your words are difficult to understand. He mumbled something about not wanting to go to work. Synonyms and related words. To talk in a way that is difficult to understand: mumble, babble, gibber...
mumble-talk indistinctly; usually in a low voice. mussitate, mutter, maunder. mouth, speak, talk, verbalise, verbalize, utter-express in speech; She talks a lot of nonsense; This depressed patient does not verbalize. Mimes, in the form of God on high, Mutter and mumble low, And hither and thither fly-Mere puppets they, who come and go At bidding of vast formless things That shift the scenery to and fro, Flapping from out their Condor wings Invisible Wo !
verb. The definition of a mumble is something spoken in a low voice. An example of a mumble is how a shy child responds to a question. To mumble is to speak in a low voice that is often difficult to understand. An example of mumble is to answer a question in a low voice or without clearly sounding out the words
Noun. 1. mumble-a soft indistinct utterance. utterance, vocalization-the use of uttered sounds for auditory communication. Mimes, in the form of God on high, Mutter and mumble low, And hither and thither fly-Mere puppets they, who come and go At bidding of vast formless things That shift the scenery to and fro, Flapping from out their Condor wings Invisible Wo !
mumble verb [I or T]. B2 to ​speak ​quietly and in a way that is not ​clear so that the words are ​difficult to ​understand: She mumbled something about being too ​busy. [+ speech] I'm ​sorry, he mumbled. (Definition of mumble from the Cambridge Advanced Learner’s Dictionary & Thesaurus © Cambridge University Press). See all translations. The Cambridge English Dictionary is constantly being updated and expanded to reflect the interests of our users. One area of particular interest to our users is that of English Language Teaching (ELT), and a number of ELT terms have recently been added to the dictionary.
Full Definition of MUTTER. intransitive verb. 1. : to utter sounds or words indistinctly or with a low voice and with the lips partly closed. 2. : to murmur complainingly or angrily: grumble. transitive verb. : to utter especially in a low or imperfectly articulated manner. — mutter noun. — mut·ter·er \-tər-ər\ noun. 
Full Definition of MUMBLE. intransitive verb. : to utter words in a low confused indistinct manner: mutter. transitive verb. 1. : to utter with a low inarticulate voice. 2. : to chew or bite with or as if with toothless gums. — mumble noun. — mum·bler \-b(ə-)lər\ noun. 