Book a rate. Once your account is set up all you need to do is tell us how much you want to send, who you want to pay and which currency you want to pay in. Then we'll quote you a rate. Simple. 
1 Domestic Wire Transfers. 2  Available by completing a Domestic Wire Transfer Request. 3  Provide the beneficiary bank, routing number, beneficiary account number, complete beneficiary name, and address, as well as any special instructions that may aide proper credit on the form. 4  International Wire Transfers. 
5/5 star rating, 18312 reviews on TrustPilot. Irene. My transfer went through from the US to Cyprus in ONE DAY and for a fraction of the cost and time using my US Bank, Western Union or the ATM machine. The process is easy. 
Wire transfer or credit transfer is a method of electronic funds transfer from one person or entity to another. A wire transfer can be made from one bank account to another bank account or through a transfer of cash at a cash office. Different wire transfer systems and operators provide a variety of options relative to the immediacy and finality of settlement and the cost, value, and volume of transactions.
Make or receive domestic and international wire transfers with ease. U.S. Bank offers domestic, international (U.S. dollar and foreign currency denominated), book or internal, drawdown and reverse drawdown and automatic standing wires. Wire transfers are ideal for businesses that seek to: 1  Send immediately available funds quickly for a purchase or other business need. 2  Initiate large dollar payments and/or high volumes of wires, typically more than 100 per day. 3  Interface directly with transactions generated within the bank’s wire system
BREAKING DOWN 'Wire Transfer'. Wire transfers allow people in different geographic locations to easily transfer money to locales and financial institutions around the globe. For providing the service, banks will collect a fee, sometimes based upon the size of the transfer being made. 
Online Wire Transfer Services. Online wire transfers are a convenient way to send money from your Citibank checking, savings or money market account to non-Citi accounts in the. . and internationally. 
There is a fee for sending a wire transfer. For details, please refer to your Consumer Account Fee and Information Schedule or call us at 1-800-TO-WELLS (1-800-869-3557). If you are sending a wire overseas, foreign currency wire transfers are available. Please visit a Wells Fargo location for details. 
Wire transfers offer a fast, safe way to move money from one person (or company) to another. Depending on your line of work or other personal circumstances, there may be a number of reasons why you need to move money quickly. Wire transfers can help you move money without a hassle. And, with SEFCU's upgraded wire transfer process you can authorize your request electronically.
Information you will need when requesting an international wire transfer: To have money wired to your SEFCU account, please provide the sender with the following information: Depending on your line of work or other personal circumstances, there may be a number of reasons why you need to move money quickly. Wire transfers can help you move money without a hassle. And, with SEFCU's upgraded wire transfer process you can authorize your request electronically. 1  Call SEFCU's Member Solutions Center at 800-727-3328. 2  Request the wire transfer and provide the required information.