3. Learn about terrestrial isopods. I. Introduction There are thousands of species of crustaceans, most all of which are aquatic. In the Order Isopoda, however, there are a few thousand species of terrestrial crustaceans commonly known as roly-polies, sowbugs, pillbugs, or wood lice.
The majority of crustaceans are aquatic and the isopods are one of the few groups of which some members now live on land. The only other crustaceans which include a small number of terrestrial species are amphipods (like sandhoppers) and decapods (crabs, shrimp, etc.). Females brood their young in a pouch under their thorax. Isopods have various feeding methods: some eat dead or decaying plant and animal matter, others are grazers or strain food particles from the water around them, a few are predators, and some are internal or external parasites, mostly of fishes.
The terrestrial isopods are omnivores and scavengers, feeding mainly on vegetable or animal matter. Their food is usually already dead and decaying in the leaf litter, in crevices, or under rocks, logs, and bark. They feed wherever plant and animal refuse and detritus accumulate and moisture is present. Species Spotlight: Terrestrial Isopods. Underneath moist logs and decaying leaves live a multitude of creatures, several of which may be terrestrial isopods, commonly known as sowbugs, woodlice, pillbugs, and slaters. These creatures are elliptical in shape, have seven equal pairs of legs, and two pairs of antennae
Isopoda is an order (group) of crustaceans that includes woodlice, sea slaters and their relatives. Isopods live in the sea, in fresh water, or on land, and most are small greyish or whitish animals with rigid, segmented exoskeletons (external skeletons). Females brood their young in a pouch under their thorax. Isopods have various feeding methods: some eat dead or decaying plant and animal matter, others are grazers or strain food particles from the water around them, a few are predators, and some are internal or external parasites, mostly of fishes.
Adaptation. Giant isopods have developed large antennae that they use to find their way and prey as they crawl along the dark seafloor. They are an example of deep sea gigantism, the ability of deep sea creatures to grow much larger than their relatives in shallow waters. Species Overview. The gigantism of the giant isopod may be an adaptation to the extreme pressure of the deep ocean they inhabit. Giant isopods are one of the largest crustaceans and the largest known member of the isopod family, a group of crustaceans that are closely related to shrimp and crabs.
Ron Wagler. Terrestrial isopods are small crustaceans that live on land and are related to shrimp and lobster (see Figure 1). The common names of terrestrial isopods include roly poly, sow bug, and pill bug, among many others. They are detritivores, which means they primarily eat dead plants and dead animals. In the process of eating these organic materials, they also consume bacteria and fungi that are on or in these dead organisms.
Pillbugs, also known as sowbugs, or woodlice, are familiar backyard creepy crawlies to most of us. Pillbugs are correctly. classified as terrestrial Isopods, and belong to the Class Crustacea. Familiar crustaceans include lobsters, crabs, shrimp, and daphnia (water fleas). The crustaceans, in turn, are part of a larger group, Arthropoda, or jointed-legged animals. Isopod-the group of crustaceans including pillbugs, all sharing a dorso-ventrally flattened body, 7 pairs of walking legs, 5. posterior gills (pleopods), and formation of the marsupium in females.
There are over 10,000 species of isopod worldwide with around 4,500 species found in marine environments, mostly on the seabed, 500 species in fresh water and another 5,000 species on land. The order is divided into eleven suborders. Females brood their young in a pouch under their thorax. Isopods have various feeding methods: some eat dead or decaying plant and animal matter, others are grazers or strain food particles from the water around them, a few are predators, and some are internal or external parasites, mostly of fishes.