Definition of CONCURSUS. : the influx of divine causation upon secondary causes; especially: the doctrine that before the fall man was preserved from sin by the aid of God. ADVERTISEMENT. Medieval Latin, from Latin, concourse — more at concourse. Origin of CONCURSUS. Medieval Latin, from Latin, concourse — more at concourse. This word doesn't usually appear in our free dictionary, but the definition from our premium Unabridged Dictionary is offered here on a limited basis.
Full Definition of CONCURRENCE. 1. a: the simultaneous occurrence of events or circumstances b: the meeting of concurrent lines in a point. 2. a: agreement or union in action: cooperation b (1) : agreement in opinion or design (2) : consent. 
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: concourse (Noun). A large open space in a building where people can gather. concourse (Noun). A large group of people; a crowd. concourse (Noun). The running or flowing together of things; the meeting of things; confluence. 
1 Meaning of Concursus. ( 2 Lat. from concurrere). 3  In the civil law. 4  A running together; a meeting or concurrence. 5  Concursus creditorum, the conflict or conflicting rights of creditors, in relation to their liens, privileges, and priorities, in cases of insolvency and other cases. 6  Story, Confl. 7  Laws, 325c, 433a. 
Concur. To agree; coincide; act together. To concur is to evidence consent in an affirmative or concrete manner as opposed to merely acquiescing or silently submitting to a decision. 
1 The fact of two or more events or circumstances happening or existing at the same time: the incidental concurrence of two separate tumours. 1.1 [count noun] Mathematics A point at which three or more lines meet: the number of possible concurrences in the diagram. More example sentences. 
interpleader. n. 1. (Law) a process by which a person holding money or property claimed by two or more parties and having no interest in it himself can require the claimants to litigate with each other to determine the issue. 
con•course. 1. an assemblage; gathering: a concourse of people. 2. a boulevard or other broad thoroughfare. 3. a large open space for accommodating crowds, as in a railroad station. 4. an act or instance of coming together; confluence: a concourse of events. 
Snippets. Latitude or Longitude either, but thought they were trying which word sounded best. Some of the gloves, and she went on, looking anxiously about as it lasted.) 'Then the Dormouse shall!' they both sat silent and looked at each other for. 