Sedimentary rocks are types of rock that are formed by the deposition of material at the Earth 's surface and within bodies of water. Sedimentation is the collective name for processes that cause mineral and/or organic particles (detritus) to settle and accumulate or minerals to precipitate from a solution. Sedimentary rocks are deposited in layers as strata, forming a structure called bedding. The study of sedimentary rocks and rock strata provides information about the subsurface that is useful for civil engineering, for example in the construction of roads, houses, tunnels, canals or other structures.
By John Bestoloffe. When rocks are formed from dead organisms and/or rocks that currently exist, they are called sedimentary rocks. They can be divided into three types: clastic, organic, and chemical. Clastic sedimentary rocks are rocks that form from broken pieces of other rocks. Organic sedimentary rocks are formed from the remains of once living creatures and plants. Chemical sedimentary rocks are composed of mineral crystals. These crystals are made from dissolvable elements that are formed by a chemical process and typically found in water
1 Limestone (above) is formed from the deposition of hard mineral remains of sea creatures and chemically is mainly calcium carbonate CaCO3. 2  This sedimentary rock mineral contains the 'shelly' remains of marine organisms, including coral, that once lived in warm shallow fertile seas. 5(a) A sedimentary rock bed is formed from plant/animal remains or weathered and eroded particles from pre-existing rocks. The material is deposited in layers that will eventually form the sedimentary rock. These may be transported, usually by water (or wind in the case of sand) and deposited to form sediments.
Sedimentary rocks are formed on the earth's surface by the deposition and lithification of sediment. They comprise the weathered rind of the lithosphere. Because sediment is deposited incrementally over a surface, sedimentary rocks are layered and, unless deformed by some tectonic event, horizontal. 
Calcite: calcite forms and is stable at the Earth's surface. Some calcite is formed from precipitation, but much of the calcite in sedimentary rocks is formed by biological activity. Many marine organisms secrete skeletal material (shells) of calcite. 
The sedimentary rock cover of the continents of the Earth's crust is extensive, but the total contribution of sedimentary rocks is estimated to be only 8% of the total volume of the crust. Sedimentary rocks are only a thin veneer over a crust consisting mainly of igneous and metamorphic rocks. Sedimentary rocks are deposited in layers as strata, forming a structure called bedding. The study of sedimentary rocks and rock strata provides information about the subsurface that is useful for civil engineering, for example in the construction of roads, houses, tunnels, canals or other structures.
Particles that form a sedimentary rock by accumulating are called sediment. Before being deposited, sediment was formed by weathering and erosion in a source area, and then transported to the place of deposition by water, wind, ice, mass movement or glaciers which are called agents of denudation. Sedimentary rocks are deposited in layers as strata, forming a structure called bedding. The study of sedimentary rocks and rock strata provides information about the subsurface that is useful for civil engineering, for example in the construction of roads, houses, tunnels, canals or other structures.
1 Fossils are formed by plants and animals becoming trapped in deposits or sediments and then buried by other layers and compressed as the sedimentary rock forms. 2  This is why the vast majority of fossils are found in sedimentary rock layers. 3  Fossils are the remains of or 'imprints' of dead organisms (plants or animals). 5(a) A sedimentary rock bed is formed from plant/animal remains or weathered and eroded particles from pre-existing rocks. The material is deposited in layers that will eventually form the sedimentary rock. These may be transported, usually by water (or wind in the case of sand) and deposited to form sediments.
Sedimentary rocks. Sedimentary rocks are formed from pre-existing rocks or pieces of once-living organisms. They form from deposits that accumulate on the Earth's surface. Sedimentary rocks often have distinctive layering or bedding. 