Classroom Training. Prospective veterinarians must complete a doctor of veterinary medicine degree. Typically, a doctorate in veterinary medicine takes four years to complete. Of these four years, three are spent on classroom training where students take courses in animal anatomy and physiology. They also take courses on disease diagnosis, prevention and treatment. 
It would take four years to complete the Doctor of Veterinary Medicine (D.V.M. or V.M.D.) degree. For the source and more detailed information concerning your request, click on the related links section (U.S. Department of Labor) indicated at the bottom of this answer box. It depends on what type of degree you are interested in pursuing. If you simply want a sports medicine certificate then it may take up to two years. An associates degree wou … ld take about the same amount of time. A bachelor's degree however requires completion of all required undergraduate classes (4 years).
To get a degree in medicine: If you mean in your question how long does it take to become a doctor or physician or have Dr. in front of your name, well then it takes 4 y … ears of college, and then 4 years of medical school. When you graduate you will be a medical physician. It depends on what type of degree you are interested in pursuing. If you simply want a sports medicine certificate then it may take up to two years. An associates degree wou … ld take about the same amount of time. A bachelor's degree however requires completion of all required undergraduate classes (4 years).
Step 4. Step 5. Get a bachelor's degree. Most veterinary schools require that you have obtained a bachelor's degree in pre-veterinary studies, biology or a related subject. You can apply to any major accredited university to get your bachelor's degree. If you cannot gain entry into a university, you can begin at a community college and transfer after two years of study. Gain work experience with animals
Report Abuse. A vet earns a DVM (doctorate of veterinary medicine), not a PhD. A PhD is a graduate degree and a research degree that requires original work. A DVM is a professional degree. A DVM takes 4 years to earn, and you need a 4-year degree to apply for the program. A PhD takes 8-12 years total. 
The Doctor of Veterinary Medicine (DVM) degree program takes four years of full-time study to complete. It is designed to prepare participants for careers in private practice, research or teaching. This program of study can be combined with a Ph.D. degree program in Veterinary Medicine. 
Graduates of accelerated programs may complete the education in as few as 6 to 7 years, while those who wish to advance in the field as specialist veterinarians generally spend at least 11 to 12 years in training. On average, it takes about 8 years after high school to become an entry-level veterinarian. Undergraduate Coursework. The bachelor’s degree is the most common qualification held by veterinary school applicants, but some students have master’s and doctoral degrees.
Generally it takes full time graduate students 2-3 years to earn a master's degree and 4-5 years to earn a PhD. This is assuming they go for the same subject that they hold an … undergrad degree in. If their is a college or university that offers a degree particular to kinesiology at the bachelors level, it would take approximately four years as a full-time student, … and provided the degree is taken as prescribed by the institution.
Waiting until after graduation could extend the amount of time it takes to become a veterinarian. Veterinary Doctorate. Professional veterinary programs are usually 4 years long. They are typically bisected into dual 2-year segments, focusing on classroom instruction and clinical practice, in that order. On average, it takes about 8 years after high school to become an entry-level veterinarian. Undergraduate Coursework. The bachelor’s degree is the most common qualification held by veterinary school applicants, but some students have master’s and doctoral degrees.
Army Medicine | Flickr. To get into veterinary school, students will need to complete an undergraduate education, typically lasting 4 years. They must then take the GRE, or Graduate Record Examination, and apply to veterinary school with their scores. On average, it takes about 8 years after high school to become an entry-level veterinarian. Undergraduate Coursework. The bachelor’s degree is the most common qualification held by veterinary school applicants, but some students have master’s and doctoral degrees.