Gustav Holst was born on September 21, 1874 in Pittville, Cheltenham, Gloucestershire, England as Gustavus Theodore von Holst. He was married to Isobel Harrison. He died on May 25, 1934 in Ealing, Middlesex, London, England. 
Welcome to the Gustav Holst Web Site. This website was created to introduce you to the life and music of Gustav Holst, a British composer who was born in Cheltenham, England in 1874 and died in London in 1934. Holst was a composer of many choral part-songs, song cycles, operas and orchestral pieces. A new book. Imogen Holst (1907-1984), the only child of Gustav Holst, was a composer and arranger of folksongs, writer on music, conductor, and administrator.
Biography. Gustav Theodore Holst (born Gustavus Theodore von Holst; 21 September 1874 – 25 May 1934) was an English composer, arranger and teacher. Best known for his orchestral suite The Planets, he composed a large number of other works across a range of genres, although none achieved comparable success. Gustav Theodore Holst (born Gustavus Theodore von Holst; 21 September 1874 – 25 May 1934) was an English composer, arranger and teacher. Best known for his orchestral suite The Planets, he composed a large number of other works across a range ... Read more.
Gustav Theodore Holst (born Gustavus Theodore von Holst; 21 September 1874 – 25 May 1934) was an English composer, arranger and teacher. Best known for his orchestral suite The Planets, he composed a large number of other works across a range of genres, although none achieved comparable success. 
The Early Years. Gustav Holst was born on 21 September 1874 in Cheltenham, England, the first of two children to Adolph and Clara von Holst. Adolph was an accomplished pianist who taught piano and practiced many hours during the day, much to the neglect of his wife, Clara, and their two children. 
Soundtrack | Composer | Music Department. Gustav Holst was born on September 21, 1874 in Pittville, Cheltenham, Gloucestershire, England as Gustavus Theodore von Holst. He was married to Isobel Harrison. He died on May 25, 1934 in Ealing, Middlesex, London, England. See full bio ».
Full list. Gustav Holst was born in Cheltenham in 1874. He began composing while at Cheltenham Grammar School and spent two months at Oxford learning counterpoint before being sent to London to study composition under Stanford at the Royal College of Music. 
No wonder Holst occupy an individual place in the history of 20th century music. Gustavus Theodore von Holst’s Childhood And Early Life. Gustav Holst was born on September 21, 1874 in Cheltenham, Gloucestershire in England as the first of two children to Adolph and Clara Von Holst. His father, Adolph was an established pianist, who taught and spent much of his time practising piano, much to the disregard of his wife, Clara and two children. 
Gustav Holst (Composer, Arranger) Born: September 21, 1874 - Cheltenham, Gloucestershire, England Died: May 25, 1934 - London, England Gustav(us Theodore von) Holst was a significant English composer, mostly known for his orchestral suite The Planets. Early Life. Gustav Holst, was born to a family of Swedish extraction (by way of Latvia and Russia).