Shares & Saves. Save. The benthic zone is the area near to the bottom of river, lake or sea. Most of the plants found there are algae and seagrasses, which are also called phytobenthos. Phytobenthos will occur more often in the superior levels of the benthic zone, since they depend on the sun for photosynthesis.
The benthic zone is the ecological region at the lowest level of a body of water such as an ocean or a lake, including the sediment surface and some sub-surface layers. The superficial layer of the soil lining the given body of water, the benthic boundary layer, is an integral part of the benthic zone, as it greatly influences the biological activity which takes place there. Examples of contact soil layers include sand bottoms, rocky outcrops, coral, and bay mud
Benthos: Inhabitants of the Benthic Zone. The organisms that live in the benthic zone are collectively called benthos.. They include crustaceans, mollusks, worms, fish, and any other type of organism that makes its home on or in the seabed. The Benthic Zone. The benthic zone begins at the edge of the sea at the intertidal zone, extends out along the continental shelf, and continues down the continental slope to the abyssal plain, thousands of meters below sea level.
Comments. Submit. A limited number of plants can live in the benthic zone at the bottom of the ocean. The majority of plants can only live in water that's shallow enough to let in sunlight, which they require for photosynthesis, the process by which plants produce nutrients. 
Depending on the water-body, the benthic zone may include areas which are only a few inches below water, such as a stream or shallow pond; at the other end of the spectrum, benthos of the deep ocean includes the bottom levels of the oceanic abyssal zone. The superficial layer of the soil lining the given body of water, the benthic boundary layer, is an integral part of the benthic zone, as it greatly influences the biological activity which takes place there. Examples of contact soil layers include sand bottoms, rocky outcrops, coral, and bay mud
Benthos is the community of organisms which live on, in, or near the seabed, also known as the benthic zone. The term benthos comes from the Greek noun βένθος depth of the sea. Benthos is also used in freshwater biology to refer to organisms at the bottom of freshwater bodies of water, such as lakes, rivers, and streams.
Organisms living in this zone are called benthos, e.g. the benthic invertebrate community, including crustaceans and polychaetes. The organisms generally live in close relationship with the substrate bottom and many are permanently attached to the bottom. The superficial layer of the soil lining the given body of water, the benthic boundary layer, is an integral part of the benthic zone, as it greatly influences the biological activity which takes place there. Examples of contact soil layers include sand bottoms, rocky outcrops, coral, and bay mud