More specifically, transpiration is the evaporation of water into the atmosphere from the leaves and stems of plants. Evaporation involves the process of any water changing from a liquid to a vapor. Transpiration is the evaporation process occurring to the water held in the leaves and stems of plants. In transpiration, water travels from the soil into the roots of plants, and up to the underside of plant leaves, where it is released into the air. This evaporation of water from plants into the atmosphere happens thanks to small pores in the leaves called stomates. Only 1% of the transpired water that passes through a plant is used in the actual growth process. Some of the water that eventually becomes part of the transpiration process is used as a vehicle to deliver nutrients from the soil into the plant. The water is also used to cool
Transpiration is the evaporation of cellular water (in the form of water vapour) from the stoma in the leaves of the plants. Stoma are pores and are generally located on the … underside of the leaves of plants. Water accumulating in the leaves of the plants is lost as water vapor through the process of transpiration, this is similar to the process of sweating in animals. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Perhaps the gratest benefit of transpiration is that it uses solar energy to drive passive movement of water and minerals from soil to leaves. The plant does not expend energy moving this water
Transpiration is the process of water loss from plants through stomata. Stomata are small openings found on the underside of leaves that are connected to vascular plant tissues. In most plants, transpiration is a passive process largely controlled by the humidity of the atmospheric and the moisture content of the soil. Only 1% of the transpired water that passes through a plant is used in the actual growth process. Some of the water that eventually becomes part of the transpiration process is used as a vehicle to deliver nutrients from the soil into the plant. The water is also used to cool
Transpiration. Water in the roots is pulled through the plant by transpiration (loss of water vapor through the stomata of the leaves). Transpiration uses about 90% of the water that enters the plant. The other 10% is an ingredient in photosynthesis and cell growth. Transpiration serves three essential roles: 1  Movement of minerals up from the root (in the xylem) and sugars (products of photosynthesis) throughout the plant (in the phloem).
Transpiration is the process by which moisture is carried through plants from roots to small pores on the underside of leaves, where it changes to vapor and is released to the atmosphere. Transpiration is essentially evaporation of water from plant leaves. Transpiration also includes a process called guttation, which is the loss of water in liquid form from the uninjured leaf or stem of the plant, principally through water stomata. Studies have revealed that about 10 percent of the moisture found in the atmosphere is released by plants through transpiration. The remaining 90 percent is mainly supplied by evaporation from oceans, seas, and other bodies of water (lakes, rivers, streams).
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: TRANSPIRATION Definition:- the evaporation of water or loss of water in vapour form, from the exposed parts of a plant especially leaves is termed as transpiration. transpiration helps to cool the internal temperature of the plant, also helps in transport of water and some minerals ion that are soluble in water to the leaf ...transpiration also helps to prevent wilting of plant leaf.
Transpiration mainly occurs so that the water is evaporated into  the atmosphere from the leaves of the plants. It also helps in the  movement of water from the roots to oth … er parts of a plant. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Perhaps the gratest benefit of transpiration is that it uses solar energy to drive passive movement of water and minerals from soil to leaves. The plant does not expend energy moving this water
Transpiration is the process of water movement through a plant and its evaporation from aerial parts, such as leaves, stems and flowers. Water is necessary for plants but only a small amount of water taken up by the roots is used for growth and metabolism. The remaining 99-99.5% is lost by transpiration. Leaf surfaces are dotted with pores called stomata, and in most plants they are more numerous on the undersides of the foliage. Soil water supply and soil temperature can influence stomatal opening, and thus transpiration rate. The amount of water lost by a plant also depends on its size and the amount of water absorbed at the roots. Transpiration accounts for most of the water loss by a plant by the leaves and young stems. Transpiration serves to evaporatively cool plants, as the evaporating water carries away heat energy due to its large latent heat of vaporization of 2260 kJ per litr