By WALTER SULLIVAN. EXERCISING hard may delay the onset of menstruation, but it does not affect the ability to have children later and it reduces susceptibility to cancers of the breast and reproductive system, new studies show. 
Menstruation is a biological process controlled by your body’s production and regulation of multiple hormones. Exercising places physical demands on your body that can affect your hormone levels -- and menstrual cycle -- in different ways. Generally lasting three to five days, your menstrual period or menstruation is the portion of your menstrual cycle during which your body sheds blood and uterine tissue. During the first half of your menstrual cycle, your body’s levels of the hormone estrogen increase; this hormone boost causes the uterine lining to thicken in preparation for pregnancy. Additional hormone fluctuations cause one of your ovaries to release an egg, which travels to the uterus for fertilization.
Report Abuse. Oh yea exercise can for sure delay your period. Any kind of stress on the body (good or bad stress and physical or emotional) can delay your period wait a couple more days and if you don't get it take a test but I'd say you're safe. Best Answer: Exercise can indeed delay your period. When I first started the swim team back in high school mine skipped an entire month just because my body was adjusting to the new routine. Worrying and stress can also delay it
Healthy eating should not affect your menstrual cycle. However, if you are not getting your necessary nutrients from your diet, you could delay your period. Eat a balanced diet with enough calories to help your body grow and develop. 
Know that it’s safe to exercise on your period. In fact, there may be benefits to exercising on your period, including reduced cramps and higher pain tolerance. Additionally, the hormonal changes don’t impact your strength or endurance. So although you may feel tired, heading to the gym might make you feel better. Science hasn't fully characterized the effects of menstruation on exercise, but moderate exercise appears to ease premenstrual tension and menstrual cramps. Thus, there is generally no need to sit out or take it easy just because you have
Likewise, if your body fat percentage is much higher than the normal level for your height, periods can also stop. Exercise and body weight aren't the only things that can affect your cycle, and a missing period isn't a disease, it's a symptom. If you're suffering from irregular or missed periods, make an appointment with your gynecologist so they can help you figure out how to get your period back. 
The menstrual cycle is typically 21 to 28 days; however, the amount of days in the menstrual cycle can change due to medical conditions, stress, illness, medication and lifestyle changes with exercising and dieting. Exercising excessively or participating in strenuous sports can delay your period. Symptoms that may accompany a period's absence are headache, vaginal dryness, weight gain, weight loss and voice changes. Significant weight gain or loss and too much exercise can result in absent menstrual cycles, according to the university.
There are several factors that could affect a woman’s hormones. Weight – If you’re underweight, your body won’t produce the hormones it needs to complete a menstrual cycle. If you’re overweight, your hormones may be thrown out of whack and make it hard to conceive. I’ve still been exercising 4-6 times a week and my cycle has been a hit or miss every month for the past 8 months. I am writing this article today because at this point I haven’t gotten my period in over 2 months. I took another pregnancy test to be safe and once again, I’m not pregnant.
The Effects of Excessive Exercise. While exercise may affect normal menstrual cycles, excessive exercise can delay or even stop your cycles completely. Professional athletes often suffer from a lack of menstruation or irregular menstruation, in part due to their low body fat. Symptoms that may accompany a period's absence are headache, vaginal dryness, weight gain, weight loss and voice changes. Significant weight gain or loss and too much exercise can result in absent menstrual cycles, according to the university.