Directions. Bring 1 inch salted water to a boil in a large skillet. Add asparagus in one layer. Cook until tender, about 5 minutes for medium and 7 minutes for jumbo. Drain, and transfer to a serving platter. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, and top with a pat of butter
Heat the oven to 425°F. Snap off the woody ends of the asparagus and discard. How To Cook Asparagus in the Oven Serves 2 to 4 What You Need Ingredients 1 pound asparagus Olive oil Salt and freshly-ground black pepper Equipment Baking sheet Instructions Snap off the dry ends of the asparagus. Heat the oven to 425°F. Snap off the woody ends of the asparagus and discard. Drizzle with olive oil. Spread the asparagus in a single layer on a baking sheet and drizzle lightly with olive oil. Toss the asparagus to evenly coat with oil. Sprinkle with salt and pepper. Sprinkle generously with salt and pepper. Roast for 15 to 20 minutes
1 Place the asparagus into a mixing bowl, and drizzle with the olive oil. 2  Toss to coat the spears, then sprinkle with Parmesan cheese, garlic, salt, and pepper. 3  Arrange the asparagus onto a baking sheet in a single layer. 4  Bake in the preheated oven until just tender, 12 to 15 minutes depending on thickness. 1 Preheat an oven to 425 degrees F (220 degrees C). 2  Place the asparagus into a mixing bowl, and drizzle with the olive oil. 3  Toss to coat the spears, then sprinkle with Parmesan cheese, garlic, salt, and pepper. 4
Directions. Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F. Break off the tough ends of the asparagus and, if they're thick, peel them. Place the asparagus on a baking sheet, drizzle with olive oil, then toss to coat the asparagus completely. Spread the asparagus in a single layer and sprinkle liberally with salt and pepper. Roast the asparagus for 25 minutes, until tender but still crisp
How to Roast Asparagus. Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F. Place asparagus on a baking sheet or in a baking dish and drizzle with 1 tablespoon olive oil. Toss lightly to coat. If desired, season with salt and black pepper. Roast, uncovered, about 15 minutes or until crisp-tender, lightly tossing twice during roasting. How to Cook Asparagus on the Stove. To steam asparagus, lay the spears in a large skillet and top with 1 inch of water. Lightly salt the water and bring to a simmer. Cook, covered, for 3 to 5 minutes or until crisp-tender.
Directions. 1  Preheat oven to 400 degrees. 2  In the meantime, trim each spear by grasping both ends and gently bending until it snaps in half. 3  Spread the tender top halves in a single layer on a foil-lined baking sheet; discard the woody stalks. 4  Drizzle a bit of olive oil over top (a tablespoon or two) and add garlic. 5  Season lightly with salt and ... 1 Spread the tender top halves in a single layer on a foil-lined baking sheet; discard the woody stalks. 2  Drizzle a bit of olive oil over top (a tablespoon or two) and add garlic. 3  Season lightly with salt and red pepper flakes; season liberally with the black pepper. 4  Toss to coat.
1 Bring a large pot of water to a strong boil. 2  Toss in your entire bunch of asparagus. 3  As soon as the water comes back to a boil, cook the asparagus for exactly 2 minutes (or 1 minute if your asparagus is very thin; up to 3 minutes if your asparagus is very thick). 1 Set aside. 2  Bring a large pot of water to a strong boil. 3  Toss in your entire bunch of asparagus. 4