Biochemistry, the study of chemical processes that take place in living organisms, is a broad field that offers a wide range of career options. Some biochemists study the body’s immune response to germs and allergens or the effectiveness of drugs in treating a wide array of afflictions. Other biochemists work in the commercial food or agricultural field looking for ways to improve products and crops.
A degree in biochemistry or a related science such as chemistry is the minimum requirement for any work in this field. This is sufficient for a position as a technical assistant in industry or in academic settings. A Ph.D. (or equivalent) is generally required to pursue or direct independent research. Typical biochemists study chemical processes and chemical transformations in living organisms, other biochemists study DNAs, proteins and cell parts.
Description [edit]. Typical biochemists study chemical processes and chemical transformations in living organisms, other biochemists study DNAs, proteins and cell parts. The word biochemist is a portmanteau of biological chemist
Biochemistry is the science in which chemistry is applied to the study of living organisms and the atoms and molecules which comprise living organisms. Take a closer look at what biochemistry is and why the science is important. Biochemistry is the study of the chemistry of living things. This includes organic molecules and their chemical reactions.
Biochemists study life at the cellular and molecular level. The pharmaceutical industry relies heavily on the work of biochemists. University biochemistry professors often teach students to use laboratory technology. The field of biochemistry is very broad, and a biochemist's work may vary from day to day. Not all biochemistry jobs have a defined end point like the cure of a disease or the production of some helpful medication. In some cases, the work is designed to be ongoing and to continue building upon itself over time.
Biochemistry is the study of the chemical processes in living organisms, which connects it to the fields of molecular biology and biotechnology. Because biochemistry is the foundation for any job dealing with biological material or functions, biochemists are found in a variety of fields. These include medical and biotechnological research, pharmacology, genetic research and the military.
They normally work on teams with many other biochemists, and often get to work with experts in other disciplines as well. Collaboration with computer scientists, chemists, engineers, and physicists is common. There are two types of research that biochemists do: basic research, and applied research. 
Adorable animal families that will make you aww. The work of most biochemists focuses on cells and the chemical balance of different molecular organisms, though what the job looks like on a day-to-day basis can be hard to nail down because the field is very broad. Not all biochemistry jobs have a defined end point like the cure of a disease or the production of some helpful medication. In some cases, the work is designed to be ongoing and to continue building upon itself over time.
What Biochemists and Biophysicists Do. Biochemists and biophysicists study the chemical and physical principles of living things and of biological processes, such as cell development, growth, and heredity. Biochemists and biophysicists need a Ph.D. to work in independent research and development positions. Biochemists and biophysicists need a Ph.D. to work in independent research and development positions. Most Ph.D. holders begin their careers in temporary postdoctoral research
Overview. Biochemistry, the study of chemical processes that take place in living organisms, is a broad field that offers a wide range of career options. Biochemists can pursue stem cell or genetic research that has the potential to result in dramatic medical or scientific breakthroughs. Some biochemists study the body’s immune response to germs and allergens or the effectiveness of drugs in treating a wide array of afflictions. Other biochemists work in the commercial food or agricultural field looking for ways to improve products and crops.