Fruits. Fruits with a high content of vitamin C should be selected when adding collagen rich foods into the diet. Strawberries, oranges, grapefruits, kiwis, lemons, blackberries, black currants, blueberries, plums, elderberries, purple figs, purple grapes and papayas are all excellent fruit choices. There are certain foods that aid the body in its production of collagen. Many of these foods can be added into any diet in order to promote better health. Foods that are rich in protein and vitamins K and C are perfect for aiding in the
If you want to avoid any collagen products that contain animal products, look for supplements that specify a vegetable source, or at least are marked with a phrase like no animal products. An alternative is to consume foods and take vitamins such as Vitamin C, that support healthy production of collagen in the body. For a snack that promotes healthy production of collagen, try making an avocado dip. Avocados contain the same omega fatty acids as fish, and digest just as easily. Foods that are rich in sulfur content are also important to collagen production. Among these are green and black olives, fresh cucumbers, and fresh stalks of celery. Working in conjunction with the sulfur, vegetables that are rich in Vitamin A also aid in keeping collagen levels high
Vitamin C. Vitamin C is a key nutrient in collagen and elastin production and can be a limiting factor if you don't obtain sufficient quantities in your diet. Many plant foods offer significant amounts of vitamin C. Guavas pack the biggest vitamin C punch of all, with 165 milligrams in one medium-sized fruit. Phytoestrogens, chemicals in some plant foods that mimic the effects of estrogen, can help counteract the loss of estrogen and thereby slow down the loss of collagen and elastin or, in some cases, restore their levels. There are over 300 foods that contain phytoestrogens, according to Cornell University.
Carrots are rich in Vitamin A which helps increase collagen production and slows the breakdown of collagen and elastin that causes skin aging. Vitamin A thickens and stimulates the dermis where collagen, elastin and blood vessels are present and it also helps improve blood flow to the surface of the skin. A perfect diet for glowing skin should include cabbage because it is one of the most well known foods containing collagen producing agents. The presence of antioxidants and phytonutrients like lutenin, thiocyanates, zeaxanthin, isothiocynates ans sulforaphane boost skin hydration and elasticity.
Red fruits and vegetables also are excellent sources to up the collagen content of foods in the diet. The presence of lycopenes in these types of foods helps to act as antioxidants, which in turn increases collagen production. Try adding rep peppers, beets, and fresh or stewed tomatoes to the diet. For a snack that promotes healthy production of collagen, try making an avocado dip. Avocados contain the same omega fatty acids as fish, and digest just as easily. Foods that are rich in sulfur content are also important to collagen production. Among these are green and black olives, fresh cucumbers, and fresh stalks of celery. Working in conjunction with the sulfur, vegetables that are rich in Vitamin A also aid in keeping collagen levels high
Collagen is the most abundant protein found in your body. It forms connective tissues such as tendons and ligaments and gives young skin its texture and resilience. Phytoestrogens, chemicals in some plant foods that mimic the effects of estrogen, can help counteract the loss of estrogen and thereby slow down the loss of collagen and elastin or, in some cases, restore their levels. There are over 300 foods that contain phytoestrogens, according to Cornell University.
6. Aside from tomatoes, red fruits and vegetables are also considered good sources of lycopene. Beets and red peppers make tasty additions to your diet. Aside from lycopene, these red natural foods also contain plenty of antioxidants which promote collagen and battle other signs of aging. Share.
You can also help your body by eating foods high in proline, such as gelatin, soy, milk, cheese, beef and cabbage [source: Nutrition Data ]. And as we mentioned before, vitamin C works along with proline to promote collagen production. Foods such as oranges, lemons and limes contain vitamin C. 
Vegetables. Much like fruits, the best vegetable choices for aiding in the production of collagen are high in vitamin C as well as vitamin K. Select foods like red peppers, tomatoes, broccoli, Brussels sprouts, kale, sweet bell peppers, beets, eggplant, purple asparagus, endive, purple cabbage and cauliflower. There are certain foods that aid the body in its production of collagen. Many of these foods can be added into any diet in order to promote better health. Foods that are rich in protein and vitamins K and C are perfect for aiding in the