Vitamin A can be found in two principal forms in foods 1  : Retinol, the form of vitamin A absorbed when eating animal food sources, is a yellow, fat-soluble substance. 2  Since the pure alcohol form is unstable, the vitamin is found in tissues in a form of retinyl ester. Vitamin A is a group of unsaturated nutritional organic compounds, that includes retinol, retinal, retinoic acid, and several provitamin A carotenoids, and beta-carotene. Vitamin A has multiple functions: it is important for growth and development, for the maintenance of the immune system and good vision.
1 Retinol, the form of vitamin A absorbed when eating animal food sources, is a yellow, fat-soluble substance. 2  Since the pure alcohol form is unstable, the vitamin is found in tissues in a form of retinyl ester. 3  It is also commercially produced and administered as esters such as retinyl acetate or palmitate. Vitamin A is a group of unsaturated nutritional organic compounds, that includes retinol, retinal, retinoic acid, and several provitamin A carotenoids, and beta-carotene. Vitamin A has multiple functions: it is important for growth and development, for the maintenance of the immune system and good vision.
Vitamin A sources:  Vitamin A is found in dark green and yellow vegetables and yellow fruits, such as broccoli spinach, turnip greens, carrots, squash, sweet potatoes, pumpkin, cantaloupe, and apricots, and in animal sources such as liver, milk, butter, cheese, and whole eggs. Function and food sources of Vitamin A. Vitamin A sources:  Vitamin A is found in dark green and yellow vegetables and yellow fruits, such as broccoli spinach, turnip greens, carrots, squash, sweet potatoes, pumpkin, cantaloupe, and apricots, and in animal sources such as liver, milk, butter, cheese, and whole eggs. List All Nutrient Information.
You can also contribute to your vitamin A intake by including good sources of beta-carotene in your diet, as this can be converted into vitamin A by the body. The main food sources of beta-carotene are: 1  yellow, red and green (leafy) vegetables, such as spinach, carrots, sweet potatoes and red peppers. 
Because the body converts all dietary sources of vitamin A into retinol, 1 mcg of physiologically available retinol is equivalent to the following amounts from dietary sources: 1 mcg of retinol, 12 mcg of beta-carotene, and 24 mcg of alpha-carotene or beta-cryptoxanthin. A portion of the vitamin A in some supplements is in the form of beta-carotene and the remainder is preformed vitamin A; others contain only preformed vitamin A or only beta-carotene. Supplement labels usually indicate the percentage of each form of the vitamin.
There are two main sources of vitamin A, animal sources and plant sources. Known as retinol, animal sources of this essential vitamin contain preformed vitamin A. Vegetable sources contain carotenoids, such as beta-carotene, which is converted to retinol by the body. Vitamin A that comes from animal sources is well absorbed and used more efficiently by the body then other sources of the vitamin. The two main sources of vitamin A from animal products are beef liver and turkey giblets. Other sources of this fat soluble vitamin include: 1  Chicken liver. 2  Cod liver oil. 3  Fish oil
In foods of animal origin, the major form of vitamin A is an ester, primarily retinyl palmitate, which is converted to retinol (chemically an alcohol) in the small intestine. The retinol form functions as a storage form of the vitamin, and can be converted to and from its visually active aldehyde form, retinal. Vitamin A is a group of unsaturated nutritional organic compounds, that includes retinol, retinal, retinoic acid, and several provitamin A carotenoids, and beta-carotene. Vitamin A has multiple functions: it is important for growth and development, for the maintenance of the immune system and good vision.
Sources. There are two types of vitamin A. Preformed vitamin A, also called retinol, is found in animal products. Good sources are fortified milk, eggs, meat, cheese, liver, halibut fish oil, cream and kidneys. Pro-vitamin A is found in plant-based foods such as fruits and vegetables, according to the U.S. National Library of Medicine (NLM) .
Two forms of vitamin A are available in the human diet: preformed vitamin A (retinol and its esterified form, retinyl ester) and provitamin A carotenoids [ 1-5 ]. Preformed vitamin A is found in foods from animal sources, including dairy products, fish, and meat (especially liver). A portion of the vitamin A in some supplements is in the form of beta-carotene and the remainder is preformed vitamin A; others contain only preformed vitamin A or only beta-carotene. Supplement labels usually indicate the percentage of each form of the vitamin.