Focal: Pertaining to a focus which in medicine may refer to: 1. The point at which rays converge as, for example, in the focal point. 2. A localized area of disease. 
The term non-focal, when related to a neurological examination of a patient, typically means the patient is experiencing light-headedness, faintness, dizziness, generalized … weakness, maybe some blackouts, with altered or loss of consciousness, and confusion. Dissolution of partnership and Dissolution of firm are two different terms.Dissolution of partnership means termination of existing partnership agreement and the formation of … a new agreement which can be due to any reason like admission of a new partner or death or retirement of an old partner.
The focal length of an optical system is a measure of how strongly the system converges or diverges light. For an optical system in air, it is the distance over which initially collimated rays are brought to a focus. When a lens is used to form an image of some object, the distance from the object to the lens u, the distance from the lens to the image v, and the focal length f are related by. The focal length of a thin lens can be easily measured by using it to form an image of a distant light source on a screen.
Confidence votes 49. The term non-focal, when related to a neurological examination of a patient, typically means the patient is experiencing light-headedness, faintness, dizziness, generalized weakness, maybe some blackouts, with altered or loss of consciousness, and confusion. Basically their are  many firms that help in the making of a car (let's say a VW Golf) a  firm may assemble the car and another may provide the means of  distribution but the focal firm is still VW it is for all intents  and purposes their car.. + 38 others found this useful. Belloty Aliero.
2. pertaining to or emanating from focus. focal distance. see focal-film distance. focal length. the distance between the lens and an object from which all rays of light are brought to a focus. 
2. pertaining to or emanating from focus. focal distance. see focal-film distance. focal length. the distance between the lens and an object from which all rays of light are brought to a focus. focal liver disease. widely disseminated micro-abscesses or abscesses, migration paths of helminth larvae. 
The focal length of a lens determines the magnification at which it images distant objects. It is equal to the distance between the image plane and a pinhole that images distant objects the same size as the lens in question. When a lens is used to form an image of some object, the distance from the object to the lens u, the distance from the lens to the image v, and the focal length f are related by. The focal length of a thin lens can be easily measured by using it to form an image of a distant light source on a screen.
It is not a measurement of the actual length of a lens, but a calculation of an optical distance from the point where light rays converge to form a sharp image of an object to the digital sensor or 35mm film at the focal plane in the camera. Prime lenses have a fixed focal length and zoom lenses have variable focal lengths. The advantage of the zoom lens is its versatility. They are ideal when you are photographing a variety of subjects such as landscapes and portraits, and you just want one lens for both situations.
Knowing what the focal length means, especially in relation to your camera, is very important when it comes to buying lenses. Read this post to find out what different lenses are used for, which ones are right for you, how to use them creatively, and all the technical speak you’ll need. 
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. A focal firm is the initiator of an International business transaction, they conceive, design and produce the offerings [goods or services] intended for consumption (Cavusgil, Knight and Riesenberger ,2008, International Business). Dissolution of partnership and Dissolution of firm are two different terms.Dissolution of partnership means termination of existing partnership agreement and the formation of … a new agreement which can be due to any reason like admission of a new partner or death or retirement of an old partner.