The history of the periodic table is also a history of the discovery of the chemical elements. The first person in history to discover a new element was Hennig Brand, a bankrupt German merchant.
At least 6 people discovered the periodic table. Mendeleev was the last of these six although his table and subsequent use that he put it to was by far the most comprehensive. The others were De Chancourtois (French), Odling (English), Newlands (Englsh), Hinrichs (Danish), Lothar Meyer (Geraman).nswer for the Periodic TableThe periodic table of the chemical elements is a tabular method of displaying the chemical elements. Although precursors to this table exist, its … invention is generally credited to Russian chemist Dmitri Mendeleev in 1869.
The modern periodic table orders the elements according to increasing atomic number rather than increasing atomic weight, but the earlier tables were true periodic tables since they grouped the elements according to periodicity of their chemical and physical properties. year earlier (1864) Lothar Meyer published a periodic table which described the placement of 28 elements. Meyer's periodic table ordered the elements into groups arranged in order of their atomic weights.
The periodic table is an arrangement of the chemical elements, organized on the basis of their atomic numbers, electron configurations and recurring chemical properties.Elements are presented in order of increasing atomic number.he history of the periodic table is also a history of the discovery of the chemical elements. The first person in history to discover a new element was Hennig Brand, a bankrupt German merchant.
Answer: If you answered Dmitri Mendeleev then you might be incorrect. Dmitri Mendeleev presented his periodic table of the elements based on increasing atomic weight on March 6, 1869, in a presentation to the Russian Chemical Society.While Mendeleev's table was the first to gain some acceptance in the scientific community, it was not the first table of its kind. year earlier (1864) Lothar Meyer published a periodic table which described the placement of 28 elements. Meyer's periodic table ordered the elements into groups arranged in order of their atomic weights.
It was invented in russia by Dmitri Mendeleev he Periodic Table was invented and arranged by the Russian chemist  Dmitri Mendeleev (1834-1907).nswer for the Periodic TableThe periodic table of the chemical elements is a tabular method of displaying the chemical elements. Although precursors to this table exist, its … invention is generally credited to Russian chemist Dmitri Mendeleev in 1869.
Dmitri Mendeleev came up with his first version of the periodic table in 1864, since then more than 700 versions of the table have been proposed. No chemistry textbook, classroom, lecture theatre or research laboratory is complete without a copy of the periodic table of the elements.he long form of the periodic table with the modern format has been attributed to H G Deming, who devised it for his textbook in 1923. Its popularity was ensured when it was adopted by a drug company as part of their promotional material.
Mendeleev published the first periodic table in 1869. The periodic table was created by Dimitri Mendeleev in 1869. He  arranged all chemicals according to atomic mass.nswer for the Periodic TableThe periodic table of the chemical elements is a tabular method of displaying the chemical elements. Although precursors to this table exist, its … invention is generally credited to Russian chemist D
Mendeleev was born in the village of Verkhnie Aremzyani, near Tobolsk in Siberia, to Ivan Pavlovich Mendeleev and Maria Dmitrievna Mendeleeva (nee Née). Kornilieva his grandfather Was Pavel Maximovich, sokolov a priest of The Russian Orthodox church from The tver. regionendeleev published his periodic table of all known elements and predicted several new elements to complete the table. Only a few months after, Meyer published a virtually identical table. Some consider Meyer and Mendeleev the co-creators of the periodic table.
The Russian chemist Dmitri Mendeleev was the first scientist to make a periodic table similar to the one used today. Mendeleev arranged the elements by atomic mass, corresponding to relative molar mass.he history of the periodic table is also a history of the discovery of the chemical elements. The first person in history to discover a new element was Hennig Brand, a bankrupt German merchant.