Rising gradually to more than 4 km above sea level, Mauna Loa is the largest volcano on our planet. Its long submarine flanks descend to the sea floor an additional 5 km, and the sea floor in turn is depressed by Mauna Loa's great mass another 8 km. This makes the volcano's summit about 17 km (56,000 ft) above its base!
It is an active shield volcano with relatively gentle slopes, with a volume estimated at approximately 18,000 cubic miles (75,000 km 3), although its peak is about 120 feet (37 m) lower than that of its neighbor, Mauna Kea. Lava eruptions from Mauna Loa are silica-poor and very fluid, and they tend to be non-explosive. 1859 marked the largest of the three historical flows that have been centered on Mauna Loa's northwestern flank, producing a long lava flow that reached the ocean on Hawaii island's west coast, north of Kiholo Bay.
Mauna Loa's most recent eruption occurred from March 24 to April 15, 1984. No recent eruptions of the volcano have caused fatalities, but eruptions in 1926 and 1950 destroyed villages, and the city of Hilo is partly built on lava flows from the late 19th century. 1859 marked the largest of the three historical flows that have been centered on Mauna Loa's northwestern flank, producing a long lava flow that reached the ocean on Hawaii island's west coast, north of Kiholo Bay.
Since the most recent period of intense summit activity began about 2,000 years ago, perhaps Mauna Loa is on the verge of shifting to a period of long-lived lava-lake activity, shield-building, increased summit overflow, and diminished rift zone eruptions.. See a technical summary of this proposed cyclic model. 
Mauna Loa, or Long Mountain in Hawaiian, is located on the island of Hawaii. It is pictured above rising 13,680 ft. (4,170 m) above sea level (this photo was taken from over Loihi seamount, some 30 km or so to the south). Since 1832, Mauna Loa has erupted 39 times; its last eruption was in 1984. The Hawaiian Volcano Observatory celebrated the 30th anniversary of Mauna Loa's last eruption (in 1984) on March 25, 2014, underscoring that it has been a realtively quite 3 decades at the world's largest active volcano.
Pele eventually landed on the Big Island, where she made Mauna Loa her new home. Literally meaning “Long Mountain” in the Hawaiian language, Mauna Loa was so tall that even Pele’s sister could not send the ocean’s waves high enough on Mauna Loa to drown Pele’s fires. So Pele established her home on its slopes. Mauna Loa’s elevation and location made it an important spot for atmospheric and other scientific observations. The Mauna Loa Solar Observatory has long been prominent in observations of the Sun. The NOAA Mauna Loa Observatory, located close by, monitors the global atmosphere.
Hawaiian Meaning. The Hawaiian name Mauna Loa means Long Mountain.. This name is apt, for the subaerial part of Mauna Loa extends for about 120 km from the southern tip of the island to the summit caldera and then east-northeast to the coastline near Hilo. Its long submarine flanks descend to the sea floor an additional 5 km, and the sea floor in turn is depressed by Mauna Loa's great mass another 8 km. This makes the volcano's summit about 17 km (56,000 ft) above its base!
Rising to more than 4 km above sea level, Mauna Loa is the largest volcano in the world. The enormous volcano covers half of the island, and is among the Earth’s most active volcanoes, having erupted 33 times since its first well-documented historical eruption in 1843. Mauna Loa’s elevation and location made it an important spot for atmospheric and other scientific observations. The Mauna Loa Solar Observatory has long been prominent in observations of the Sun. The NOAA Mauna Loa Observatory, located close by, monitors the global atmosphere.
Mauna Loa is an awe-inspiring volcano on the Big Island of Hawaii. It is the largest volcano in the world, and one of the most active. Mauna Loa has experienced dozens of eruptions in recent history, and possibly thousands since the volcano was formed. Many scientists believe that Mauna Loa is going to erupt again, and in the near future