Directions. 1  Place brown sugar into a bowl and place in microwave. 2  Fill another bowl with water and place in microwave with brown sugar. 3  Microwave for 1 minute and check brown sugar. 4  If it is still hard, try it for 30 seconds longer.
1 Place brown sugar into a bowl and place in microwave. 2  Fill another bowl with water and place in microwave with brown sugar. 3  Microwave for 1 minute and check brown sugar. 4  If it is still hard, try it for 30 seconds longer.
If your brown sugar has become as hard as a rock and you need to use it immediately here’s a way you can quickly soften it. Put the brown sugar in a microwave-safe dish and place a moistened kitchen towel over the top. Turn on your microwave for 20 seconds.
Place the damp paper towel on top of the brown sugar and cover the container with plastic wrap. Microwave on high at for about one minute. Poke the sugar with a utensil. If it is still hard, continue microwaving at 30-second intervals until the sugar is soft enough.
1 Fill another bowl with water and place in microwave with brown sugar. 2  Microwave for 1 minute and check brown sugar. 3  If it is still hard, try it for 30 seconds longer. 4  I actually softened my entire bag of brown sugar at one time and continued this method until it was softened.
A quicker way to soften brown sugar is to put a moist paper towel in a plastic bag with the sugar and microwave it for 20 seconds. If you are leery about microwaving plastic, you could also put the sugar in a glass or ceramic bowl with a moist paper towel and cover it with a lid or plate.
Place the hardened brown sugar in an airtight container. Before putting on the lid, cover the sugar with a sheet of plastic wrap (to form a slight barrier). On top of this, place a piece of damp (but not dripping), wet paper towel. Place the lid on container and seal tightly.
Option one: Place the hardened brown sugar in an airtight container. Before putting on the lid, cover the sugar with a sheet of plastic wrap (to form a slight barrier). On top of this, place a piece of damp (but not dripping), wet paper towel. Place the lid on container and seal tightly.