Today's oilskins (or oilies) typically come in two parts, jackets and trousers. Oilskin jackets are generally similar to common rubberized waterproofs. The chief difference is a high spray collar. Some have hoods, often in a high-visibility colour to increase visibility if a wearer falls overboard. The cuffs of better oilskin jackets include an inner seal at the wrist similar to that on a scuba diver's drysuit to prevent water from being forced up the sleeve. Pockets on trousers and jackets are often lined with quick-drying synthetic fleece that is warm even when soaked.
An oilskin is a waterproof garment, typically worn by sailors and by others in wet areas, such as fish-plant workers. The cuffs of better oilskin jackets include an inner seal at the wrist similar to that on a scuba diver's drysuit to prevent water from being forced up the sleeve. Pockets on trousers and jackets are often lined with quick-drying synthetic fleece that is warm even when soaked.
Noun. 1. oilskin-a macintosh made from cotton fabric treated with oil and pigment to make it waterproof. slicker. mac, mack, mackintosh, macintosh-a waterproof raincoat made of rubberized fabric. 1. (Textiles). a. a cotton fabric treated with oil and pigment to make it waterproof. b. (as modifier): an oilskin hat. 2. (Clothing & Fashion) (often plural) a protective outer garment of this fabric.
Adorable animal families that will make you aww. Oilskin is fabric that has been impregnated with oil to make it waterproof. Before the development of synthetic fibers, this was the material of choice for waterproof garments and coverings. Sailors, especially, grew familiar with oilskin, since it protected them from the elements on the job. It is still possible to buy oilskin fabric and garments made with it, and people can also make their own. Oils like beeswax make great waterproofers, and they smell pleasant, unlike the tar of old.
n. 1. Cloth treated with oil to make it waterproof. 2. a. A garment made of oilskin or of a synthetic waterproof material, generally used by sailors. 1. (Textiles). a. a cotton fabric treated with oil and pigment to make it waterproof. b. (as modifier): an oilskin hat. 2. (Clothing & Fashion) (often plural) a protective outer garment of this fabric.
Also known as foul weather gear, contemporary oilskins include such innovations as DWR-coated nylon on their low end and Gore-Tex and other proprietary waterproof membranes on the high. A Sou'wester, a traditional form of collapsible oilskin rain-hat, is longer in the back than the front to fully protect the neck. The cuffs of better oilskin jackets include an inner seal at the wrist similar to that on a scuba diver's drysuit to prevent water from being forced up the sleeve. Pockets on trousers and jackets are often lined with quick-drying synthetic fleece that is warm even when soaked.
Fabric is sold by the running yard. If you purchase one yard of oilcloth you will be sent a piece that is 36 by 47. Fabric is sold in 1/4 yard increments, with a 1/2 yard minimum per fabric. Orders under 1/2 yard will automatically be increased to the minimum. If you need a lot of oilcloth you can buy it by the roll for $81.00. Each roll is 12 yards long
True to the old adage they get along like oil and water, the reason oilskin works is the oil coating will not let the water pass through the fabric. This is why oilskin works, and is the Natural Waterproof Fabric. Cotton, as a natural fabric, does have a slight nap to it. 
Outback Oilskin is produced from 100% Cotton, enabling the fabric to breathe. This property lends the fabric to not only high performance wet weather gear, but stylish casual clothing such as jackets and vests as well. 
Oilcloth, also known as enameled cloth or (in England) American cloth, was close-woven cotton duck or linen cloth with a coating of boiled linseed oil to make it waterproof. 