Origin of vegetable charcoal: Carbon is the most abundant element on earth, and is also an important element of the human body. It occurs in impure form in petroleum, charcoal and various sediments. In its pure form, in graphite and diamonds.
Activated charcoal is safe for most adults when used short-term. Side effects of activated charcoal include constipation and black stools. More serious, but rare, side effects are a slowing or blockage of the intestinal tract, regurgitation into the lungs, and dehydration.
Charcoal has also been used to treat other intestinal disorders such as diarrhea, constipation, and cramps. There are few studies to support these uses and there are also concerns that Frequent use of charcoal may decrease absorption of essential nutrients, especially in children.
Preparation of vegetable charcoal: The source of vegetable charcoal is carbonized coconut husks (nucifera cocos) that are ground into a fine, black, odourless and tasteless powder. It is completely safe for human consumption, and its method of preparation increases its porosity and adsorption properties.
“Activated charcoal” is similar to common charcoal, but is made especially for use as a medicine. To make activated charcoal, manufacturers heat common charcoal in the presence of a gas that causes the charcoal to develop lots of internal spaces or “pores.” These pores help activated charcoal “trap” chemicals.
Description-Research and Analysis Bitter-tasting vegetable charcoal can be used to help support gas hemorrhage or as a poison antidote. Vegetable charcoal can be made from the carbonized residue of non-poisonous wood ashes such as oak bark or bayberry bark. It can also be from vegetables and astnngent herbs such as blackberry or raspberry leaves.It is specific for passive hemorrhage and excessive secretions.
Full Definition of CHARCOAL. 1. : a dark or black porous carbon prepared from vegetable or animal substances (as from wood by charring in a kiln from which air is excluded). 2. a: a piece or pencil of fine charcoal used in drawing b: a charcoal drawing.
The vegetable charcoal is a natural substance, made from precious wood, which gives a typical dark color to bread and pasta substitutes, as well as foods like pasta, breadsticks, biscuits. The vegetable charcoal is used in dietary supplements as a support for post-prandial swelling.