Jayson is a masculine given name. Notable people with the name include: 1  Jayson P. Ahern, United States Department of Homeland Security official. 2  Jayson Blair (born 1976), American journalist. 3  Jayson Blair (actor) (born 1984), American actor. 
Origin of the name Jason: The English cognate of the Latin and Greek Iāson (healer), a name derived from iasthai (to heal). Popularly bestowed in the U.S., the name Jason is borne in Greek Myth by a prince who led the Argo-nauts. Var: Jayson. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman.
Jayson is a somewhat popular first name for males (#689 out of 1220, Top 56%) and an even more popular last name for all people (#47026 out of 150436, Top 31%). (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the baby name popularity of Jayson for boys. 
Variant forms of Jayson include the English Jace, the English Jaison, the English Jase, the English Jasen, the English Jayce, the English Jaycen, and the English Jaysen. Jayson is fairly popular as a baby name for boys. The name has been increasing in popularity since the 1960s. At the modest height of its usage in 2010, 0.046% of baby boys were named Jayson. Its ranking then was #333. [ 2 syll. jay-son, ja-ys-on ] The baby boy name Jayson is pronounced JH EY-SahN †. Jayson has its origins in the Old Greek language and it is used largely in English. In addition, Jayson is a spelling variant of the English Jason.
Meaning of Jayson. Greek name. In Greek, the name Jayson means-healer alternate spelling of jason.The name Jayson originated as an Greek name. The name Jayson is most often used as a boy name or male name. Greek Name Meaning-healer alternate spelling of jason.
Jayson is an Americanized respelling of the name Jason. Jason is the English version of the Greek personal name, Iasōn, which most likely comes from the verb “iasthai” meaning ‘to heal’ in the Greek language. The story of Jason and the Argonauts dates back to classical Greek mythology and had a large influence on the name’s enduring success.
Greek Meaning: The name Jayson is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Jayson is: a healing. American Meaning: The name Jayson is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Jayson is: a healing. SoulUrge Number: 7. Expression Number: 3. People with this name have a deep inner need for quiet, and a desire to understand and analyze the world they live in, and to learn the deeper truths.
Jason is a common given name for a male. It comes from Greek ἰάσων (Iasōn), meaning healer, from the verb ἰάομαι, iaomai, heal, cure, cognate with ἰασώ, Iasō, the goddess of healing and ἰατρός, iatros, healer, physician. 
American Meaning: The name Jason is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Jason is: He that cures. Greek Meaning: The name Jason is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Jason is: A healing. In Greek mythology, the leader of the group of warrior heroes called the Argonauts.