Protists are a heterogeneous group of living organisms, comprising those eukaryotes that are not animals, plants, or fungi. In systems of biological classification, they usually are treated as the Kingdom Protista or Protoctista. 
Kingdom Protista is one of the five biological kingdoms in the formerly used taxonomic classification of organisms (proposed by Robert Whittaker). Protists are grouped into animal-like (protozoa), plant-like (single-celled and some multicellular, eukaryotic algae), and fungus-like (i.e. slime molds and water molds). 
pro·tist. Any of a large variety of usually one-celled organisms, including the protozoans, most algae, and the slime molds. Protists are eukaryotes (that is, they have cell nuclei) and live in water or in watery tissues of organisms. They are grouped as a separate kingdom in taxonomy. Also called protoctist. 
10 hilariously insightful foreign words. Protists is a catch-all term used to describe all eukaryotic organisms — meaning those that have cells with nuclei — besides animals, plants, and fungi. Examples include the unicellular animal-like protozoa, the fungus-like slime molds, and the plant-like protophyta. 
protist any member of the kingdom Protista, a group of eukaryotic, predominantly unicellular microscopic organisms. They may share certain morphological and physiological characteristics with animals or plants, or both. The protists comprise what have traditionally been called protozoa, algae, and lower fungi. Protists (IPA: /ˈprəʊ.tɪst/ (RP); /ˈproʊ.tɪst/ (GenAm)), Greek protiston-a meaning the (most) first of all ones, are a diverse group of organisms, comprising those eukaryotes that cannot be classified in any of the other kingdoms as fungi, animals, or plants.
Medical Definition of PROTIST. : any of a diverse taxonomic group and especially a kingdom (Protista synonym Protoctista) of eukaryotic organisms that are unicellular and sometimes colonial or less often multicellular and that typically include the protozoans, most algae, and often some fungi (as slime molds). — pro·tis·tan \prō-ˈtis-tən\ adjective or noun. See protist defined for kids.
Definition: Protists are organisms in the kingdom Protista. These organisms are eukaryotes, meaning they are made up of single or multiple cells which all contain a nucleus enclosed by a membrane. The protists are a diverse group of eukaryotes that cannot be classified as animals, plants, or fungi. Organisms in the Protista kingdom include amoebae, red algae, dinoflagellates, diatoms, euglena and slime molds. Also Known As: Protista. Examples: One type of protist in the marine environment is Irish moss, which is a species of red algae.
The taxonomic kingdom Protista is a collection of single-celled organisms that do not fit into any other category. Protists are a group made up of protozoa, unicellular algae, and slime molds. We will concentrate on the animal portion of this group: the protozoa (proto = first, zoa = animals). Protozoa are the oldest known group of heterotrophic life that consume and transform complex food particles into energ
Protists were traditionally subdivided into several groups based on similarities to the higher kingdoms: the unicellular animal-like protozoa, the plant-like protophyta (mostly unicellular algae), and the fungus-like slime molds and water molds. Among the pioneers in the study of the protists, which were almost ignored by Linnaeus except for some algae, were Leeuwenhoek, O. F. Mueller, Müller. C. G ehrenberg And Felix. Félix dujardin the first groups used to classify microscopic organism Were the animalcules And. the infusoria
Definition of PROTIST. : any of a diverse taxonomic group and especially a kingdom (Protista syn. Protoctista) of eukaryotic organisms that are unicellular and sometimes colonial or less often multicellular and that typically include the protozoans, most algae, and often some fungi (as slime molds). — pro·tis·tan \prō-ˈtis-tən\ adjective or noun. See protist defined for kids.