The answer really depends on the profession as well as the specialty you want to work in. For example, becoming a school psychologist can take a little as two years of graduate-level education, and only requires a master’s degree.
For the first two years of medical school, students spend their time in laboratories and classrooms, studying topics such as biochemistry, advanced anatomy and physiology, psychology, medical ethics and medico-legal topics. They also learn how to examine patients, take medical histories and diagnose illness.
Undergraduate and Medical School. Like any college-educated person, a plastic surgeon must begin with a four-year undergraduate program, usually with a major in some area of science. After earning a bachelor’s degree, students can apply to medical school, which typically takes another four years to complete.
After earning your bachelor's degree, you must complete law school, which can take 2-4 years, lead to a Juris Doctor (J.D.) degree. During your first year in law school, you study broad subjects, such as constitutional law and legal writing, before you choose a concentration for your later years of study.
In addition to the basic requirements of college, medical school and residency, some physicians choose to go on to programs called fellowships. A fellowship program offers one to three years of additional training for specialty fields.
Master's degree programs for RNs with a bachelor's degree generally take 1-3 years to complete, depending on the school and the specialty. Graduates with a non-nursing bachelor's degree have the option of enrolling in a BSN-to-master's degree fast-track program.
1 This does take place during undergraduate study in most cases though, so it doesnt add any time. 2  4. Moving forward...After getting into medical school, you need to go to medical school! 3  Medical school takes four years. 4  At the end of those four years, you get your MD degree and can make people call you doctor.
1 Most dental schools are 4 years, a few are 3. About half of the orthodontic schools are 2 years and the rest are 3 years. 2  it takes 4 years of undergraduate education (usually, it can take 2-3 if you have exceptional credentials) and then 3-4 years in dental school (depending on a particular schools curriculum).
Count on at least 5.5 to 7 years if you have no college credits, only a high school diploma. Depending on the chiropractic college, the doctor of chiropractic program is abo … ut 3.5- 4 years. However, 90 semester hours of undergraduate work are usually required for enrollment. AT 15 hours per semester, and 3 semesters a year, the 90 hours would take two years, then you would enroll in a chiropractic program.