1 Avoid foods with ingredients like potassium nitrate or sodium nitrate. 2  Avoid foods with the words ‘cured’ or ‘smoked’ on the ingredient list. 3  This means that the food may contain nitrates. 4  Avoid processed meat or have them once in awhile.
Sodium Nitrate -- Meat Preservative. Sodium nitrate is present in foods such as hot dogs, lunch meat, bacon, ham, smoked fish, salami and beef jerky. You can read the ingredient list on the food labels to see if a food contains sodium nitrate as a p
Sodium nitrate (NaNO3) and its close relative sodium nitrite (NaNO2) are preservatives that you find in lots of processed meats. Stuff like salami, hot dogs, pepperoni, bologna, ham, bacon and SPAM all normally contain sodium nitrate as one of the ingredients.
Green leafy vegetables and root plants contain the most sodium nitrate. Vegetables high in sodium nitrate include beets, cabbage, carrots, celery, radishes and spinach. Around 90 percent of the nitrite in your body comes from vegetables, while just 10 percent comes from processed meats, the University of Minnesota Extension explains.
Root vegetables can contain high amounts of sodium nitrate. Many vegetables contain sodium nitrate, a small percentage of which converts to sodium nitrite after you eat it. Sodium nitrite can form nitrosamines, a potential cancer-causing agent, in the intestines. But vegetables also contain antioxidants that prevent the formation of nitrosaomines.
Sodium nitrate is a type of salt used to preserve foods, particularly cured meat. It's added to cured meat to extend its shelf life by preventing rancidity and the growth of bacteria. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency has set a legal limit for the concentration of nitrate allowed in food.
Sodium Nitrite and Sodium Nitrate in Food. Used as a preservative in meats, these chemicals may pose a cancer risk, although the evidence remains controversial. One recent study raised fears that nitrites and nitrates could interact with medications to damage DNA and increase the risk of cancer.