A symbol is anything that represents a particular meaning. Language is a set of symbols that people use to express their ideas (and those of the culture) and to communicate with other members of the same society.
Advertising creates and uses cultural symbols as representations of essentially familiar ideas in order to fulfill its fundamental purpose: the selling of goods and services.
1 To be called a symbol, an item must suggest a meaning different in kind from its literal meaning: a symbol is something more than the representative of a class or type. 2  We ought not to use the phrase is a symbol of when we can as easily use is or is an example of or is an evidence of.
The crane is the most popular bird in Chinese history and is a symbol of longevity and auspiciousness. In ancient China the crane was regarded as having a long life span and o … ne Chinese legend says that a immortal rode a crane to heaven. The crane also represents a lasting soaring spirit, health, and happiness.
The mental link made between the symbol and the idea (meaning) is culturally determined. When we touch a hot element on the stove, we feel the burn. In the U.S. culture, the American flag is a symbol of patriotism.
Examples of cultural symbols in Western culture include the cross as a symbol of Christianity, the American flag as a symbol of America's colonial history of thirteen colonies growing into fifty states, the gold ring as a symbol of marital commitment.
About | Categories | Types. About Symbols A literary symbol is something that means more than what it is; an object, person, situation, or action that in addition to its literal meaning suggests other meanings as well. Often, the thing or idea represented is more abstract, general, non-or super-rational; the symbol is more concrete and particular.
Symbols, however, have no meaning in and of themselves, until humans do two things: first, attach meaning to the symbol and second, communicate that meaning to someone else. Other information transmitted between humans is biological or instinctual, rather than social, or cultural (Bartle, 2008).
A cultural icon can be a symbol, logo, picture, name, face, person, building or other image. It is easily recognized and generally represents an object or idea with great cultural significance to a wide cultural group.