Most gym goers, especially beginners often think about the best chest workouts for definition. There are actually a variety of workouts that you can combine and basic exercises that you can perform in order to build mass and definition to your pectorals. The chest has actually two parts, which are the upper and the lower pectoral muscles. You can also perform flys, dips and pullovers with your program. When you are training for definition, it is wise to include different exercises in your program that target the different areas of the chest. One great example is provided below.
group of muscles on the front of the chest which link the trunk to the upper limb. pectoralis major the largest and most superficial, takes origin from the clavicle, sternum and ribs and crosses the front of the shoulder to insertions into the clavicle and humerus. See Figure 1. 
Inclined pushups, where your upper body is higher than your legs, also work the lower chest. Step 4. Do exercises that trigger the muscle fibers in your inner chest to define the line between pecs. Perform reverse-grip presses, dumbbell presses, cross-body cable presses, flyes and cable crossovers. Step 5. Choose a weight that will allow you to complete five to 10 reps per set of each exercise; this will build more muscle and allow you to define your chest muscle so your pecs pop.
Definition of PECTORAL MUSCLE. : any of the muscles which connect the ventral walls of the chest with the bones of the upper arm and shoulder and of which there are two on each side of the human body. See pectoral muscle defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT.
Do exercises that work the whole chest such as pushups, barbell bench presses, dumbbell bench presses, dumbbell flyes and cable flyes. Perform these exercises to trigger muscle fibers throughout your pectoral muscles and get an all-around stronger, more defined chest. Step 2. Perform reverse-grip presses, dumbbell presses, cross-body cable presses, flyes and cable crossovers. Step 5. Choose a weight that will allow you to complete five to 10 reps per set of each exercise; this will build more muscle and allow you to define your chest muscle so your pecs pop.
Synonyms: musculus pectoralis; pecs; pectoral; pectoral muscle; pectoralis. Hypernyms (pectoral muscle is a kind of...): skeletal muscle; striated muscle (a muscle that is connected at either or both ends to a bone and so move parts of the skeleton; a muscle that is characterized by transverse stripes). 
Noun. 1. pectoral-either of two large muscles of the chest. musculus pectoralis, pecs, pectoral muscle, pectoralis. skeletal muscle, striated muscle-a muscle that is connected at either or both ends to a bone and so move parts of the skeleton; a muscle that is characterized by transverse stripes. greater pectoral muscle, musculus pectoralis major, pectoralis major-a skeletal muscle that adducts and rotates the arm. musculus pectoralis minor, pectoralis minor, smaller pectoral muscle-a skeletal muscle that draws down the scapula or raises the rib
pectoral muscle-either of two large muscles of the chest. musculus pectoralis, pecs, pectoral, pectoralis. skeletal muscle, striated muscle-a muscle that is connected at either or both ends to a bone and so move parts of the skeleton; a muscle that is characterized by transverse stripes. Mentioned in? 1  chest. 2  greater pectoral muscle. 3  muscle. 4  musculus pectoralis. 5  musculus pectoralis major. 6  musculus pectoralis minor. 7  pec. 8  pecs. 9  pectoral. 10  pectoral vein. 11  pectoralis. 12  pectoralis major. 13  pectoralis minor. 14  pectus. 15  radical mastectomy. 16  skeletal muscle. 17  smaller pectoral muscle. 18  striated muscle. 19  thorax.
The pectoralis major (/ˌpɛktəˈreɪlɨs ˈmeɪdʒər/) (from Latin: pectus, breast) is a thick, fan-shaped muscle, situated at the chest (anterior) of the human body. It makes up the bulk of the chest muscles in the male and lies under the breast in the female. 
1. Relating to or situated in the breast or chest: a pectoral muscle; the pectoral cavity. 2. Useful in relieving disorders of the chest or respiratory tract. 3. Worn on the chest or breast: a pectoral cross. skeletal muscle, striated muscle-a muscle that is connected at either or both ends to a bone and so move parts of the skeleton; a muscle that is characterized by transverse stripes. greater pectoral muscle, musculus pectoralis major, pectoralis major-a skeletal muscle that adducts and rotates the arm.