Today, Scottish crest badges are commonly used by members of Scottish clans. However, much like clan tartans, Scottish crest badges do not have a long history, and owe much to Victorian era romanticism, and the dress of the Highland Regiments. While all the crest badges of the clan names listed are recognised by the Lord Lyon King of Arms, only about one half of these (about 140) have a clan chief who is acknowledged by the Lord Lyon King of Arms as the rightful claimant of the undifferenced arms upon which the crest badges are based.
The Matheson Clan Crest which, all members are entitled to wear, is from the crest on the top of the Clan Matheson Chief’s “Coat of Arms”. The complete Matheson Coat of Arms is displayed only by the Clan Chief and passes down directly to his eldest son. The wearing of your Clan Matheson Chief’s Crest, is a way of honoring your Chief, your Clan association and your Scottish Family Ancestry. T he Matheson Clan Crest is an arm rising from an antique crown brandishing a curved sword in a horizontal position and the proud Matheson clan motto, “Fac et spera’’ meaning (Do and hope).﻿ Our Scottish Heritage is the common bond that unites our Matheson family name forever.﻿
Scottish crest badges are heraldic badges used by members of Scottish clans to show their allegiance to a specific clan or clan chief. Even though they are commonly used by clan members, the heraldic crest and motto within the crest badge belong only to the clan chief-never the clan member. A Scottish clan member's crest badge is made up of a heraldic crest, encircled by a strap and buckle which contains a heraldic motto. While all the crest badges of the clan names listed are recognised by the Lord Lyon King of Arms, only about one half of these (about 140) have a clan chief who is acknowledged by the Lord Lyon King of Arms as the rightful claimant of the undifferenced arms upon which the crest badges are based.
The Matheson Clan Crest which, all members are entitled to wear, is from the crest on the top of the Clan Matheson Chief’s “Coat of Arms”. The complete Matheson Coat of Arms is displayed only by the Clan Chief and passes down directly to his eldest son. The wearing of your Clan Matheson Chief’s Crest, is a way of honoring your Chief, your Clan association and your Scottish Family Ancestry. We make this range of Clan Matheson Crest Jewelry and Clan Matheson Crest as your link to your Scottish bloodline.
The surname Matheson has more than one anglicization of its Scottish Gaelic derivation. The historian Black attributes Matheson to the Gaelic Mic Mhathghamhuin which means son of the bear, and the clan chief's arms carry two bears as supporters. It has also been suggested that MacMhathain means son of the heroes. Another branch of the Clan Matheson who had settled on the north side of Loch Shin had been ballies to the Earls of Sutherland in the late 15th century.
Origins of the clan. The name Matheson has been attributed to the Gaelic words Mic Mhathghamhuin which means Son of the Bear or Son of the Heroes. Traditionally the Clan Matheson descends from a twelfth century man called Gilleoin, who is thought to have been from the ancient royal house of Lorne. The seat of the Chief of the Clan Matheson was at Fort Matheson which is now a ruin. Later Mathesons, including Sir James Matheson resided in Lews Castle. The current chief Sir Fergus Matheson, 7th Baronet, and his wife Lady Matheson of Matheson now reside in Norfolk, England.
The Clan Matheson fought for Donald, Lord of the Isles at the Battle of Harlaw in 1411. At that time the Clan Matheson was a large and powerful clan with a force of around 2000 men. Chief Alastair Matheson, leader of 2000 men, was arrested by James I at Inverness. The seat of the Chief of the Clan Matheson was at Fort Matheson which is now a ruin. Later Mathesons, including Sir James Matheson resided in Lews Castle. The current chief Sir Fergus Matheson, 7th Baronet, and his wife Lady Matheson of Matheson now reside in Norfolk, England.
Matheson Clan. Matheson Clan Crest: From a crown, a hand holding a scimitar. Matheson Clan Motto: In Fac Et Spera (Do and hope). History of Clan Matheson/Mathieson: The surname translates from the Gaelic means as “Son of the Bear.” Of course, the Lowland interpretation, “Son of Matthew,” sounds less colourful. Associated family names (Septs): Bairnson, MacBirnie, MacBurnie, MacMahon, MacMath, MacMathon, MacMhathain, Massey, Matheson, Mathewson, Mathie, Mathieson, Mathison, Mathyson, Matthews, Matthewson. Clan Matheson certificates.
The Clan Matheson Society was set up in the mid-twentieth century to help members keep in touch with their family and roots. Today there are five branches: Australia, Canada, New Zealand, the United States and the United Kingdom. 
Matheson Clan Crest. The Chief s crest is a hand, holding a scimitar, emerging from a five-pointed crown; the correct heraldic description of this is. issuant from an eastern crown or, a dexter hand holding a scimitar, in fess all proper. This crest is the exclusive personal. property of the Chief, but it may be worn by his clansmen and clanswomen as long as it is surrounded by a strap and buckle. carrying the Chief s motto or slogan Fac et Spera (Do and Hope).