As with allopurinol treatment, the dose should be slowly increased. The recommended dose of probenecid is 250 mg, twice daily, for the first week, increasing to 500 mg, twice daily, for the second week and then increasing by 500 mg in subsequent months to a maximum of 2000 mg, daily in divided doses. For people who are intolerant to allopurinol give probenecid 250 mg, twice daily for one week, increasing to 500 mg, twice daily. Dose can be increased by 500 mg per month to a maximum of 2000 mg daily in divided doses. Increase fluid intake to prevent renal stone formation.
Allopurinol (Zyloprim) Dosage. The typical adult dose of allopurinol for gout is: Initial Dose: 100 to 200 milligrams (mg), once a day. Maintenance Dose: 200 to 300 mg orally, once a day, for mild gout or 400 to 600 mg a day in divided doses for moderately severe gout. You should take each dose of allopurinol with a full glass of water. To reduce the risk of kidney stones forming, you should drink eight to 10 full glasses of fluid every
Or. For people who are intolerant to allopurinol give probenecid 250 mg, twice daily for one week, increasing to 500 mg, twice daily. Dose can be increased by 500 mg per month to a maximum of 2000 mg daily in divided doses. Increase fluid intake to prevent renal stone formation.
A Stacy Wiegman, PharmD, Pharmacy, answered. A typical dose of allopurinol depends on the type of condition the medication is prescribed to treat. For example, adults suffering from gout will typically start with a low 100 mg. dosage, which is slowly increased over a week to not more than 800 mg. per daily. Treatment of kidney stones is between 100 mg. and 800 mg. daily.
Also, allopurinol can initially cause gout attacks. Doses of 300 mg or less can be taken as a single daily dose, but higher doses should be split up into a few (usually two or three) smaller doses per day. Allopurinol Medication Information.
To reduce the possibility of flare-up of acute gouty attacks, it is recommended that the patient start with a low dose of ZYLOPRIM (allopurinol) (100 mg daily) and increase at weekly intervals by 100 mg until a serum uric acid level of 6 mg/dL or less is attained but without exceeding the maximal recommended dosage. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION. The dosage of ZYLOPRIM (allopurinol) to accomplish full control of gout and to lower serum uric acid to normal or near-normal levels varies with the severity of the disease. The average is 200 to 300 mg/day for patients with mild gout and 400 to 600 mg/day for those with moderately severe tophaceous gout
Allopurinol is used to treat gout and certain types of kidney stones. It is also used to prevent increased uric acid levels in patients receiving cancer chemotherapy. These patients can have increased uric acid levels due to release of uric acid from the dying cancer cells. 
In transferring a patient from a uricosuric agent to ZYLOPRIM (allopurinol) , the dose of the uricosuric agent should be gradually reduced over a period of several weeks and the dose of ZYLOPRIM (allopurinol) gradually increased to the required dose needed to maintain a normal serum uric acid level. DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION. The dosage of ZYLOPRIM (allopurinol) to accomplish full control of gout and to lower serum uric acid to normal or near-normal levels varies with the severity of the disease. The average is 200 to 300 mg/day for patients with mild gout and 400 to 600 mg/day for those with moderately severe tophaceous gout