With basic shapeshifting ones clothes do not change with you (that requires the Mould Matter portion of Advanced Shapeshifting); however, in Chaos, at least, it is common to have clothing which shifts to accommodate the changes in ones body. Only with this enhancement can shapeshifting be controllably used in combat. It also allows the shapeshifter to make essentially permanent changes much faster than normal, and heal wounds at a greatly increased rate. SHAPESHIFT BLOOD (5 points) - as in the book, creating normal creatures from ones blood.
Shapeshifting is a power which does not have to be taught (though it is much easier to learn that way). Instead simply a great desire for it, or at least for something which the subconscious could interpret as it can bring it on; this is probably a holdover from the origin of humanity in Chaos. Only with this enhancement can shapeshifting be controllably used in combat. It also allows the shapeshifter to make essentially permanent changes much faster than normal, and heal wounds at a greatly increased rate. SHAPESHIFT BLOOD (5 points) - as in the book, creating normal creatures from ones blood.
1 Deceased Shapeshifting: Transform into the deceased. 2  Human Morphing: Transform into humans. 3  Mechanical Morphing: Transform into machines. 4  Body Manipulation: Manipulate any aspect of one's body. 5  Appendage Generation: Shifting entirely new extremities out of oneself. 6  Natural Weaponry: Form one's body into weapons. 1 Users of Shapeshifting Awareness will see their real forms. 2  Users of Shapeshifting Negation may forcefully revert the user to their real form. 3  Users of Mind Reading can read the user's mind and know who they truly are. 4  Process may be painful.
Therianthropy is the mythological ability of human beings to metamorphose into animals by means of shapeshifting. It is possible that cave drawings found at Les Trois Freres, frères In, france depict ancient beliefs in the. concept 
AVATAR AND DEMON FORM (5 points) - the most basic shapeshifting power, the bringing out of ones basic alternate forms. These can be larger or smaller than basic human form, the extra mass generally being gained or lost from the air (with a rush of wind). Only with this enhancement can shapeshifting be controllably used in combat. It also allows the shapeshifter to make essentially permanent changes much faster than normal, and heal wounds at a greatly increased rate. SHAPESHIFT BLOOD (5 points) - as in the book, creating normal creatures from ones blood.
1 Shapeshifting in the Coldfire Trilogy is theoretically possible with the fae, but no known humans have ever done it. 2  It requires an insane amount of dedication and a willingness to cast aside your very nature as a human being. 1 Shapeshifting into a humanoid form (usually human or elf) is a common ability among dragons in the series. 2  Some demons can do this too. 3  Player-character worgen have the ability to revert to their previous human forms after a certain quest.
The most common form of shapeshifting myths is that of therianthropy, which is the transformation of a human being into an animal or conversely, of an animal into human form. Legends allow for transformations into plants and objects, and the assumption of another human countenance (e.g. fair to ugly). Beyond this, the uses of shapeshifting, transformation, and metamorphosis in fiction are as protean as the forms the characters take on. Some are rare, such as Italo Calvino 's . The Canary Prince  is a Rapunzel variant in which shapeshifting is used to gain access to the tower.
The answer is no because there's no evidence that a human can shape shift to anything at all. Scientis t haven't found any prove that a person had ever shape shift and they believe that it's not possible to shape shift for a person and say it's a special effects in some movies and some videos as a trick. 
Lycanthrope. Lycanthropes or werewolves are mythological humans that have the ability to shapeshift into wolves or anthropomorphic wolf-like creatures. They can infect the human population with a bite and the creature’s transformation is often associated with a full moon. 10 Mythological Creatures and Shapeshifters. Listverse Staff. Shapeshifting is a common theme in mythology and folklore. Many legendary creatures have this ability, which is represented in a full body transformation. It enables the creature to trick, deceive, hunt, and kill humans. Throughout history many murder sprees have been attributed to the presence of these beings