Pigmented basal cell carcinoma: Introduction. Pigmented basal cell carcinoma: A common form of skin cancer which can vary in colour and appearance and grows slowly over a period of months or years. The cancer originates from the innermost cells (basal cells) of the top skin layer. 
Background. Basal cell carcinoma (BCC) is the most common skin cancer in humans, yet it accounts for less than 0.1% of patient deaths due to cancer. Basal cell skin cancer tumors typically appear on sun-exposed skin, are slow growing, and rarely metastasize (0.028-0.55%). Pigmented basal cell carcinoma has features of nodular basal cell carcinoma with the addition of dark pigmentation from melanin deposition. Keratotic BCC is a variant of nodular BCC and is usually clinically indistinguishable from nodular BCC histologically.
Intermittent exposure to ultraviolet radiation is an important risk factor. Pigmented basal cell carcinoma is a clinical and histological variant of basal cell carcinoma that exhibits increased pigmentation. It is a very rare variant, although its frequency can reach upto 6% of total basal cell carcinomas in Hispanics. Herein, we are reporting 2 cases of pigmented basal cell carcinoma. Introduction. Basal cell carcinoma (BCC) is the common malignant neoplasm of skin. It comprises of 80% non-melanoma cancers. This disorder is more common in whites and it is a slow growing, locally invasive tumour. Pigmented BCC is a rare clinical and histological variant of BCC that exhibits increased pigmentation.
Background. Basal cell carcinoma (BCC) is the most common skin cancer in humans, yet it accounts for less than 0.1% of patient deaths due to cancer. Basal cell skin cancer tumors typically appear on sun-exposed skin, are slow growing, and rarely metastasize (0.028-0.55%).
A BCC (Basal Cell Carcinoma) is the most common type of skin cancer & commonly found at a routine skin check. The cancerous cells originate from the most bottom layer of the epidermis. It’s worth getting a potential BCC sorted out sooner than later. 
Basal cell carcinoma is a type of skin cancer. Basal cell carcinoma begins in the basal cells — a type of cell within the skin that produces new skin cells as old ones die off. Basal cell carcinoma often appears as a waxy bump, though it can take other forms. Basal cell carcinoma occurs most often on areas of the skin that are often exposed to the sun, such as your face and neck.
1 Pigmented basal cell carcinoma: A common form of skin cancer which can vary in colour and appearance and grows slowly over a period of months or years. 
Practice Essentials. Basal cell carcinoma (BCC) is a nonmelanocytic skin cancer (ie, an epithelial tumor) that arises from basal cells (ie, small, round cells found in the lower layer of the epidermis). The prognosis for patients with BCC is excellent, but if the disease is allowed to progress, it can cause significant morbidity. Basal cell carcinoma (BCC) is the most common skin cancer in humans, yet it accounts for less than 0.1% of patient deaths due to cancer. Basal cell skin cancer tumors typically appear on sun-exposed skin, are slow growing, and rarely metastasize (0.028-0.55%).
Basal cell carcinoma is a cancer that grows on parts of your skin that get a lot of sun. It's natural to feel worried when your doctor tells you that you have it, but keep in mind that it's the least risky type of skin cancer. As long as you catch it early, you can be cured. Causes. Ultraviolet (UV) rays from the sun or from a tanning bed are the main cause of basal cell carcinoma. When UV rays hit your skin, over time, they can damage the DNA in your skin cells. The DNA holds the code for the way these cells grow. Over time, damage to the DNA can cause cancer to form.