10 Reviews. 10 Reviews. Pepto-Bismol is the brand name of bismuth subsalicylate, which is used to treat several stomach conditions, including diarrhea, gas, heartburn (acid reflux/GERD), nausea, and stomach discomfort. Pepto-Bismol belongs to a class of drugs called antidiarrheals, which are used to relieve diarrhea and related symptoms. 
Bismuth subsalicylate is used to treat diarrhea in adults and teenagers. It is also used to relieve the symptoms of an upset stomach, such as heartburn, indigestion, and nausea in adults and teenagers. This medicine is available without a prescription. 
Bismuth subsalicylate is also used to prevent traveler's diarrhea and to treat Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) infection as part of a quadruple-drug therapy that also includes two antibiotics, and either a histamine-2 receptor antagonist or proton pump inhibitor. DRUG CLASS AND MECHANISM: Bismuth subsalicylate (BSS) is a commonly used over the counter medicine used to treat: 1  diarrhea, 2  upset stomach, 3  nausea, 4  indigestion, and.
Bismuth subsalicylate is an antacid and anti-diarrhea medication. Bismuth subsalicylate is used to treat diarrhea, nausea, heartburn, indigestion, and upset stomach. Bismuth subsalicylate may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide. 
Uses of This Medicine. Bismuth subsalicylate is used to treat diarrhea in adults and teenagers. It is also used to relieve the symptoms of an upset stomach, such as heartburn, indigestion, and nausea in adults and teenagers. 
Bismuth subsalicylate is used to treat diarrhea, heartburn, and upset stomach in adults and children 12 years of age and older. Bismuth subsalicylate is in a class of medications called antidiarrheal agents. Bismuth subsalicylate comes as a liquid, tablet, or chewable tablet to be taken by mouth, with or without food. Follow the directions on the package carefully, and ask your doctor or pharmacist to explain any part you do not understand. Take bismuth subsalicylate exactly as directed.
Bismuth subsalicylate, sold under the brand name Pepto-Bismol, is a medication used to treat temporary discomforts of the stomach and gastrointestinal tract, such as diarrhea, indigestion, heartburn and nausea. Commonly known as pink bismuth, it is also sometimes the active ingredient in Kaopectate. Bismuth subsalicylate is the only active ingredient in an over-the-counter drug that can leave a shiny metal oxide slag behind after being completely burnt with a blow torch.
Bismuth subsalicylate brand names include: Kaopectate, Maalox Total Relief,and Pepto-Bismol. Bismuth subsalicylate is a type of antidiarrheal medication that helps to treat diarrhea, heartburn and upset stomach. It can be used in both adults and children