Medical Assistant vs. Nurse. If you are passionate about providing medical care to patients or wish to give your nursing career a boost, online nursing programs can potentially open many different avenues for you in the health care industry. A: You can find almost every nursing program online. From LPN programs to RN programs, and from BSN degrees to MSN degrees, nursing schools offer a wide variety of nursing degrees.
A salarysurvey of nurse leaders’ earningsshowed that for nurses with a BSN,the average salary was $64,890 in2004 and $69,040 in 2005. The figures increased to $84,810 in 2004and $80,780 in 2005 for those with a master’s degree in nursing (Hader,2005). 
An online nursing school offers a lot of flexibility to the students. Getting into an online nursing school is particularly very useful for working nurses who wish to give a boost to their career. They can go for higher degrees offered by these institutes without causing any major disturbance to their work routine. There are a number of nursing colleges that offer LPN programs. Students who wish to get into entry level positions as nurses can choose to get into these training programs. Associate’s Degree Programs. An associate’s degree program in nursing enables students to earn the title of Registered Nurses. There are several traditional as well as online nursing schools that offer associate’s degree. Students can equip themselves with the basics of nursing in this program
A master's degree in nursing is the educational core that allows advanced practice nurses to work as nurse practitioners, certified nurse midwives, certified clinical nurse specialists, and certified nurse anesthetists. Some schools offer accelerated master's degree programs for nurses with nonnursing degrees and for nonnursing college graduates. There are joint-degree programs, such as a master's in nursing combined with a Master of Business Administration, Master of Public Health, or Master of Hospital Administration.
There are accelerated programs for RNs, which allow the nurse with a hospital diploma or associate degree to earn both a baccalaureate and a master's degree in a condensed program. Some schools offer accelerated master's degree programs for nurses with nonnursing degrees and for nonnursing college graduates. There are joint-degree programs, such as a master's in nursing combined with a Master of Business Administration, Master of Public Health, or Master of Hospital Administration.
Direct entry MSN programs, sometimes called graduate entry or master's entry programs, are perfect for non-nurses who hold bachelor's degrees in another field. If you've worked as an entry-level RN and know you want to specialize in an area of advanced nursing, the bridge program is likely the best option for you. Associate of Science in Nursing. An associate degree in nursing (ADN) program focuses more on technical skills than theory, and for 30 percent of ASN graduates it is their stepping stone to a BSN. This is a good option if you haven't been working as an LPN/LVN and want to start your career as an RN.
A nursing school prepares students to enter the lucrative nursing profession. By enrolling in programs offered by these institutes, aspiring nurses can equip themselves with the knowledge and skills required to serve the society. There are a number of nursing schools that offer different trainings. There are a number of nursing colleges that offer LPN programs. Students who wish to get into entry level positions as nurses can choose to get into these training programs. Associate’s Degree Programs. An associate’s degree program in nursing enables students to earn the title of Registered Nurses. There are several traditional as well as online nursing schools that offer associate’s degree. Students can equip themselves with the basics of nursing in this program
Your time: An ADN takes about two years and is usually offered at a community college or vocational school, where you can often find night and weekend courses—perfect for students with family and work obligations. Associate of Science in Nursing. An associate degree in nursing (ADN) program focuses more on technical skills than theory, and for 30 percent of ASN graduates it is their stepping stone to a BSN. This is a good option if you haven't been working as an LPN/LVN and want to start your career as an RN.
Community college is the most common type of two-year college. These colleges offer many types of educational programs, including those that lead to associate degrees and certificates. Certificates and some types of associate degrees focus on career readiness. 