The Ukraine is a country in eastern Europe between Russia on the east, Belarus on the North, Poland on the west, and Romania, Moldova, and the Black Sea to the south. https: … //www.cia.gov/library/publications/the-world-factbook/maps/refmap_europe.html On that map it is in the right middle. It is the largest country in Europe not including Russia because the most of the Russia is located in Asia. Ukraine is a former Soviet republic, now an independent country, SW of Russia and also bordering on (amongst others) Poland, Slovakia, Hungary and Romania. + 11 others found this useful.
Ukraine is the biggest country in Europe not including Russia because the bigger part of it is actually in Asia. Approximately the area of Ukraine is 600,000 square miles, the … population is not so big though-nearly 46,000,000 and it's decreasing. It is the largest country in Europe not including Russia because the most of the Russia is located in Asia. Ukraine is a former Soviet republic, now an independent country, SW of Russia and also bordering on (amongst others) Poland, Slovakia, Hungary and Romania. + 11 others found this useful.
Most of Ukraine consists of regular plains with the average height above sea level being 175 metres (574 ft). It is surrounded by mountains to its west and extreme south. Wide spaces of the country's plains are located in the south-western part of the East European Plain. The geography of Ukraine varies greatly from one region of the country to another, with the majority of the country lying within the East European Plain. Ukraine is the second-largest country by area in Europe after the Russian Federation.
The western region has the Carpathian Mountains, and some eroded mountains from the Donets Ridge are in the east near the Sea of Azov. The highest elevation in Ukraine is located at the peak of Mount Hoverla which is 2,061 meters (6,762 ft) above sea level. Most of Ukraine's area is taken up by the steppe-like region just north of the Black Sea. Most of Ukraine consists of fertile plains (or steppes) and plateaus. The geography of Ukraine varies greatly from one region of the country to another, with the majority of the country lying within the East European Plain. Ukraine is the second-largest country by area in Europe after the Russian Federation.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Mount Hoverla (Cyrillic: говерла, Hoverla; Hungarian: Hovar; Hóvár: Romanian; Hovarla, Hovârla: Goverla) polish 2,061 at (6,762 metres), 6762 ft is the highest Mountain in ukraine and part Of The. carpathian mountains From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Mount Hoverla (Cyrillic: говерла, Hoverla; Hungarian: Hovar; Hóvár: Romanian; Hovarla, Hovârla: Goverla) polish 2,061 at (6,762 metres), 6762 ft is the highest Mountain in ukraine and part Of The. Carpathian mountains the mountain is located In The, eastern beskides In the. chornohora region
Geography. Ukraine, the largest country totally in Europe, has many diverse and interesting geographic features. As for mountains, the northern reaches of the Carpathian Mountains stretch across western Ukraine. The country's highest point is located there; Hoverla Mountain, at 2061 m (6762 ft) tall.
Ukraine's mountain ranges create a wonderful habitat for a variety of fauna and flora, ideal for ecotourism. The highest mountain in Ukraine is Mount Hoverla, part of the Carpathian range, measuring some 2061m high. The Carpathian Mountains form a 1 500 km curve, cutting through Ukraine, Hungary, Serbia, Poland, Romania, Czech Republic, Austria and Slovakia
Relief of Ukraine is mostly flat. Only in the west there are ridges of the Ukrainian Carpathian mountains and in the south-the Crimean mountains. The highest altitude in Ukraine is mountain Goverla (2061 meters) in the Carpathians. The maximum altitude at the Crimean's is the Roman-kosh (1545 meters). The biggest river of Ukraine is Dnieper. Danube, Dnister, Siverskyi Donets are important water arteries. 
The Ukraine is a country in eastern Europe between Russia on the east, Belarus on the North, Poland on the west, and Romania, Moldova, and the Black Sea to the south. https: … //www.cia.gov/library/publications/the-world-factbook/maps/refmap_europe.html On that map it is in the right middle. It is the largest country in Europe not including Russia because the most of the Russia is located in Asia. Ukraine is a former Soviet republic, now an independent country, SW of Russia and also bordering on (amongst others) Poland, Slovakia, Hungary and Romania. + 11 others found this useful.