Junk food will cause school work to suffer. Diet has a significant effect on children s study habits. Junk food and foods with high-sugar content deplete energy levels and the ability to concentrate for extended periods of time. Junk food will put your child off healthy food. The artificial taste of junk food is thought to be addictive and children used to spicy junk food may have trouble adjusting their palates to relatively blander healthy foods. Another problem is that junk food tends to replace other, more nutritious, foods, says Watfa.
Parents, be aware! 2 out of three middle school students who eat school lunches regularly are overweight or obese. According to the unhealthy school lunches statistics released by experts, children who eat school lunches may have higher bad cholesterol or LDL than kids who bring their lunch along with them. According to Elizabeth Jackson, MD, MPH, assistant professor of internal medicine at the University of Michigan Health System in Ann Arbor, unhealthy school lunches statistics will continue to climb as the efforts of schools to provide healthier lunch menus to students have a long way to go.
Mental Effects. Proper nutrition is also tied to better academic performance, so kids who eat unhealthy lunches are more likely to score lower on tests and have a harder time with schoolwork. There are long-term effects as well. Even if the government regulates the number of calories a child’s school lunch has, as it does with the NSLP, many schools allow children to purchase a la carte foods on top of the lunch that are calorie-rich and high in fat, sodium, sugar or all three. You Might Also Like.
According to the Women’s and Children’s Health Network, diet has a significant effect on children’s study habits. Junk food and foods with high sugar content deplete energy levels and the ability to concentrate for extended periods of time. According to “Kids Health Club” magazine, junk food can affect a child’s physical development in detrimental ways, including unhealthy weight gain, which can result in self-esteem problems. Low self-esteem can lead to consequences like depression.
However, regularly consuming fattening junk food can be addictive for children and lead to complications like obesity, chronic illness, low self-esteem and even depression, as well as affecting how they perform in school and extracurricular activities. According to “Kids Health Club” magazine, junk food can affect a child’s physical development in detrimental ways, including unhealthy weight gain, which can result in self-esteem problems. Low self-esteem can lead to consequences like depression.
When kids go to school, of course, you will not be behind them to have them eat the food we want. But then the best that we can do is, to make them understand about the effects of unhealthy school lunches. I am not saying that it is simpler said than done, but then it is always good to start it somewhere. All of this does not mean that all schools offer unhealthy school lunches, there are schools which do offer healthy and nutritional meals too. But then the kids prefer eating unhealthy junk food over them. Improving children's eating habits can help them a lot dealing with it.
Researchers concluded if healthy food is offered in school cafeterias without competition from junk foods, then a healthy school meal has the power to guide children’s choices and shape their eating behaviors. Conversely, access to unhealthy foods undermines healthy school lunch choices. 
Obesity and Other Weight Issues. One major risk of unhealthy school lunches is a contribution to obesity and other weight problems in children across the nation. According to the Weight-Control Information Network, about a third of kids and adolescents in the United States are overweight or obese. Even if the government regulates the number of calories a child’s school lunch has, as it does with the NSLP, many schools allow children to purchase a la carte foods on top of the lunch that are calorie-rich and high in fat, sodium, sugar or all three. You Might Also Like.
They were also less likely to consume as much fiber, milk and fruits and vegetables as children who did not eat fast food. Children who consumed more fattening foods while eating fast food were also likely, in general, to eat more unhealthy foods at other meals. According to “Kids Health Club” magazine, junk food can affect a child’s physical development in detrimental ways, including unhealthy weight gain, which can result in self-esteem problems. Low self-esteem can lead to consequences like depression.
Effects of poor nutrition from school lunches go beyond weight gain. A child who eats too much fat, sugar, sodium or processed food and too few vitamins and minerals is likely to develop a higher risk over time for several chronic health problems. Even if the government regulates the number of calories a child’s school lunch has, as it does with the NSLP, many schools allow children to purchase a la carte foods on top of the lunch that are calorie-rich and high in fat, sodium, sugar or all three. You Might Also Like.