A nuclear cataract is an eye condition characterized by a centralized clouding of the lens that interferes with one’s vision. Risk factors for this form of cataract development include advanced age, certain existing medical conditions and lifestyle factors.
1 A nuclear cataract forms deep in the central zone (nucleus) of the lens. 2  Nuclear cataracts usually are associated with aging. 3  A cortical cataract is characterized by white, wedge-like opacities that start in the periphery of the lens and work their way to the center in a spoke-like fashion.
Types of cataracts include: 1  A subcapsular cataract occurs at the back of the lens. 2  A nuclear cataract forms deep in the central zone (nucleus) of the lens. 3  A cortical cataract is characterized by white, wedge-like opacities that start in the periphery of the lens and work their way to the center in a spoke-like fashion.
Age-related cataracts are divided into three types, depending on their location. Nuclear cataracts form in the middle of the lens and cause the nucleus, in the center, to become yellow or brown. Cortical cataracts are wedge-shaped and form around the edges of the nucleus.
A cataract is a clouding of the eye's natural lens, which lies behind the iris and the pupil. Cataracts are the most common cause of vision loss in people over age 40 and is the principal cause of blindness in the world.
Cataract types include: Cataracts that affect the center of the lens (nuclear cataracts). A nuclear cataract may at first cause you to become more nearsighted or even experience a temporary improvement in your reading vision. But with time, the lens gradually turns more densely yellow and further clouds your vision.
Nuclear Sclerotic. This is the most common type of age-related cataract, caused primarily by the hardening and yellowing of the lens over time. Nuclear refers to the gradual clouding of the central portion of the lens, called the nucleus; sclerotic refers to the hardening, or sclerosis, of the lens nucleus.
nuclear cataract. one involving the nucleus of the lens; the common form of congenital cataracts. nuclear Y cataract. a form of congenital cataract in which small opacities outline the Y suture of the nucleus. nutritional cataract. see galactosemia.
Cataracts that affect the center of the lens (nuclear cataracts). A nuclear cataract may at first cause you to become more nearsighted or even experience a temporary improvement in your reading vision.