College is often the first major move in a teen’s life. It can be difficult deciding what to bring and what to leave at home. To help you get organized, make a college checklist of various categories that will help you decide what you really need, and what will go untouched if you bring it to college. In a small dorm room, it’s important to minimize clutter and keep the essentials handy while storing away items you won’t use daily. 
1 Know your school's policies about what to bring to campus and what not to bring to campus.). 2  2 Make room in your home to store your college dorm room essentials as you acquire them over the summer. ( 3 Tip: Save money, pack the items you have at home first. 1 2 Make room in your home to store your college dorm room essentials as you acquire them over the summer. ( 2 Tip: Save money, pack the items you have at home first. 3  For essentials you must buy, shop for college early to give yourself ample time to check your purchases and make returns
Also, be sure to contact your college roommate to decide who is bringing which items from your dorm room checklist. This lowers the possibility of a duplicate supply of items that may not fit in the small space of dorm room storage. Here’s a college dorm room checklist of essential items that you will want to bring: 1  Alarm clock. 2  Bed linens/towels. 3  Carpet/throw rug. 4  Chair/bean bag. 5  Clothes drying rack. 6  Compact refrigerator. 7  Computer. 8  Cup/mug/glass/plate/bowl/silverware. 9  Dish soap. Share. Before running out to the nearest store to purchase the items for your dorm room, it’s a great idea to check out your college’s Web site (more specifically their Office of Residence Life page).
Stuff for Your Room. Get a look at a dorm room or call the housing office beforehand and find out how big your room is and what it comes with. Not all halls have elevators, so it’s better to pack a lot of smaller boxes that one person can handle instead of a few big heavy ones. 1  Comforter/bedspread. 2  Pillow.
What not to bring to a dorm room. By Carl Azuz, CNN. (CNN) – One of the best things about college dorms is that you get to leave them eventually. They’re bare, they’re cramped, they’re never at the optimum temperature – in other words, they’re not home. 
Sparklers, if you’re going away to college this fall for the first time, you’ve probably already started the whole shopping for college process. If not, you might want to get on that because you have two months left and you’re going to need every minute of it. Trust me, I went to college. Well, for one year anyway.
Useful items to bring for dorm room. Posted in: Life & Culture. A couple people have asked about suggestions for useful items with which to furnish their (or their student's) dorm room. While I am not going to list obvious things, like soap and shampoo, I want to say that not everything needs to be sent from home. While you won't *need* one here, and can certainly print your stuff in any Athena cluster for free, it's sure nice to not have to run downstairs or to another building when you've just finished that essay at 3AM. Some people find a wall-mounted whiteboard to be useful for their room.
First off, coordinate with your roommate on who will bring what. You don't need two ironing boards, microwaves or 42 inch TVs in a standard double dorm room. Leave the paint, wallpaper and hammer/nails at home. Otherwise, with a few exceptions, your creativity is the limit. What you need to know before dorm room assignments. Awesome, dorm life. Said no one, ever. But what college alums know, and future freshmen find out, is that living in a residence hall and having roommates are a rite of passage not to be missed. Read on for answers to your questions about college housing.