Other English forms include the short form Clare, the pet forms Clair (used in French as well), Clancey, Clancy, and Clarrie, and the variant spelling Clarance. Clarence is uncommon as a baby name for boys. At the height of its usage in 1901, 1.035% of baby boys were given the name Clarence. Its ranking then was #17. Clarence has predominantly been a baby boy name, although in the past century it has also been used for girls. Clarence as a baby boy name outnumbered its use as girl name by 220 times in 1901. Baby names that sound like Clarence include Clarance (English), Claronz, and Klarenz.
Look up Clare in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. Clare is a given name, the Medieval English form of Clara. The related name Clair was traditionally considered male, especially when spelled without an 'e', but Clare and Claire are usually female. It is very often associated with the Irish County Clare. That name was derived from the Irish word ('Clar') clár given to a small bridge that crossed The River fergus near the town Of ennis in what is Now County. clare
Report Abuse. Clare The name Clare is a baby girl name. The name Clare comes from the French origin. In French The meaning of the name Clare is: Bright. Clare The name Clare is a baby girl name. The name Clare comes from the English origin. In English The meaning of the name Clare is: Diminutive of Clarence: Clear. Heres the French and the English version. 
The first thing you should know if you are considering Clarence for your baby's name is that in most countries all over the world the name Clarence is a boy name. The name Clarence is of English origin, and is used mostly in English speaking countries but also in a few other countries and languages of the world. Instead, we recommend that you pay a greater attention to the origin and meaning of the name Clarence. Read our baby name articles for useful tips regarding baby names and naming your baby. If you are thinking of giving your baby the beautiful name Clarence, spread the love and share this with your friends.
Clarence /clar-ence/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced KLARE-ence. It is of Latin origin, and the meaning of Clarence is one who lives near the River Clare. From a Celtic river name not connected with the given name Clare. The title Duke of Clarence was created for a 14th-century royal prince who married a girl from the Clare family. First used as a given name since the mid-19th century. Author Clarence Day; lawyer Clarence Darrow.
Claire /clai-re/ [1 syll.] as a girls' name (also used less generally as boys' name Claire) is pronounced clare. It is of Latin origin, and the meaning of Claire is bright, famous. French form of Clara. Introduced to Britain by the Normans, but then abandoned. 
Comments and insights on the name Clare: | Edit. Clare has a range of variants: Clarice, Clarissa, Clare, Clair, Clarinda, Claribel, Esclairmonde, and Clarimond. Names with the same meaning in other languages: Bertha/Berte (German); Gwen (Welsh); Fiona (Irish, kind of); Chiara (Italian); Clara (Latin); Claire (French);
What does Clarence mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Clarence is of Latin origin. The meaning of Clarence is bright. It is also of English origin, where its meaning is illustrious. 
The name Clarence is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Clarence is: From the surname and place name Clare, meaning bright or clear. Famous bearers: George, Duke of Clarence, brother of King Edward IV and King Richard III, who is traditionally believed to have drowned in Malmsey wine. The name Clarence is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Clarence is: From the surname and place name Clare, meaning bright or clear. Famous bearers: George, Duke of Clarence, brother of King Edward IV and King Richard III, who is traditionally believed to have drowned in Malmsey wine. Latin Meaning: The name Clarence is a Latin baby nam