Let's say you need a 3.0 to get into a degree program. The calculator will automatically put in your current GPA and credits. You simply enter in the desired GPA, 3.0, and press calculate. It tells you how many credits you need and what grade. You can use the Wolverine Track GPA Calculator to determine your semester GPA, cumulative GPA including current semester grades, and what grades you need to reach a certain GPA. Logging into Wolverine Track: To log into Wolverine Track, first log into UVLink. Click on the Student Tab.
A Bachelor's Degree Most medical schools require a completed Bachelor's degree, but not all schools do. Some schools only require completion of the pre-requisite courses, as listed previously, and at least 92 completed credits (you are a senior at that point). Having completed a Master's Degree or PhD is advantageous for admissions and may give you an edge by making you stand out from your peers, but is not required by any medical school for admission. These degrees are especially helpful when applying to some of the more prestigious medical schools.
Originally Posted by SurfDoctor I've been musing on the idea that the GPA you earn while attaining a doctorate degree is not all that important anymore. I busted my hump earning a high GPA on my masters, but I'm not sure that it is all that relevant once you reach your terminal degree. Of course there is a minimum GPA to be able to stay in a program and I think that's usually a 3.0, what I'm wondering is whether there is any benefit to having a GPA that is higher. Some programs have a minimum GPA in coursework to qualify for comprehensives. Your dissertation is what people will review and question. Originally Posted by SurfDoctor. I've been musing on the idea that the GPA you earn while attaining a doctorate degree is not all that important anymore.
For the class admitted in 2014, the average MCAT score was 34 and the average GPA was 3.7. Emory receives over 8000 applications each year for its incoming class of 138 students, so you’ll need to be competitive in order to be invited for an interview. You will also need to complete six semester hours of English (a full year of college-level grammar and composition). If you feel that your coursework in other areas would fulfill this requirement, you will be given an opportunity in the Emory Supplemental Application to explain.
The easiest way to calculate your GPA is to use Wolverine Track. You can use the Wolverine Track GPA Calculator to determine your semester GPA, cumulative GPA including current semester grades, and what grades you need to reach a certain GPA. Logging into Wolverine Track: To log into Wolverine Track, first log into UVLink. Click on the Student Tab.
If you are concerned and applying with a low GPA, it could be worth your while to consider the following two options: 1. Time off: The average age of entering medical students is now 24, with a considerable number of students applying later. Not only do medical schools appreciate mature applicants who learned from their mistakes, but if you take time off you will have more time to prepare a more competitive application.
First, you need to get your GPA up – a year of good grades in upper-level science courses might be enough to get you up to a 3.0. At that point, you can apply to an SMP with strong links to a medical school. This will take you a minimum two years, which might not seem appealing at this point. 
Best Answer: A college GPA of 3.5+ is highly recommended to get into med school. You might be able to pull it off with lower then that but it would be very hard. In college it really doesn't matter what you major in as long as you're declared pre med. You don't need a certain GPA to become a doctor...but you need a good enough GPA to get into a good college/med school. Major in biology and then eventually take all pre-med courses..