Listeriosis is an infection caused by a gram-positive motile bacterium named Listeria monocytogenes. The infection produces fever, muscle aches, and, in many people, diarrhea. Severe infections can cause headaches, meningitis, convulsions, and death. 
L. monocytogenes is a Gram-positive bacterium, in the division Firmicutes, named after Joseph Lister. Motile via flagella at 30°C and below, but usually not at 37°C, L. monocytogenes can instead move within eukaryotic cells by explosive polymerization of actin filaments (known as comet tails or actin rockets). The genus Listeria currently contains 10 species: L. fleischmannii, L. grayi, L. innocua, L. ivanovii, L. marthii, L. monocytogenes, L. rocourtiae, L. seeligeri, L. weihenstephanensis and L. welshimeri. L. dinitrificans, previously thought to be part of the Listeria genus, was reclassified into the new genus Jonesia.
According to the CDC, listeriosis is a serious infection caused by eating food that's contaminated with the bacterium Listeria monocytogenes. Older adults, pregnant women, newborns, and adults with weakened immune systems are most at risk, but, rarely, it can affect others. 
L. monocytogenes is a Gram-positive, nonspore-forming, motile, facultatively anaerobic, rod-shaped bacterium. It is catalase-positive and oxidase-negative, and expresses a beta hemolysin, which causes destruction of red blood cells. The genus Listeria currently contains 10 species: L. fleischmannii, L. grayi, L. innocua, L. ivanovii, L. marthii, L. monocytogenes, L. rocourtiae, L. seeligeri, L. weihenstephanensis and L. welshimeri. L. dinitrificans, previously thought to be part of the Listeria genus, was reclassified into the new genus Jonesia.
Listeriosis is food poisoning caused by eating foods contaminated with the Listeria monocytogenes (L. monocytogenes) bacterium. In pregnant women, the infection can result in miscarriage, premature delivery, serious infection of the newborn, or even stillbirth. 1 Do not eat refrigerated pate pâté or meat. 2  Spreads but you can eat these foods if they are. 3  Canned do not eat refrigerated smoked seafood unless it is an ingredient in a cooked dish such as a. 4  Casserole examples of refrigerated smoked seafood include, salmon, trout, whitefish, cod, tuna and.  mackerel
The symptoms of listeriosis include fever, muscle aches, and sometimes nausea or diarrhea. If infection spreads to the nervous system, symptoms such as headache, stiff neck, confusion, loss of balance, or convulsions can occur. But infected pregnant women may experience only a mild, flu-like illness. 1 Do not eat refrigerated pate pâté or meat. 2  Spreads but you can eat these foods if they are. 3  Canned do not eat refrigerated smoked seafood unless it is an ingredient in a cooked dish such as a. 4  Casserole examples of refrigerated smoked seafood include, salmon, trout, whitefish, cod, tuna and.  mackerel
Listeriosis is a serious infection caused by eating food contaminated with the bacterium Listeria monocytogenes. Listeriosis is primarily affects pregnant women, newborns, and adults with weakened immune systems. Listeriosis symptoms often look like other kinds of illnesses. It usually starts with stomach cramps and diarrhea, followed by fever, muscle aches, stiff neck, confusion, loss of balance, and convulsions.
Listeria monocytogenes is a Gram-positive rod-shaped bacterium. It is the agent of listeriosis, a serious infection caused by eating food contaminated with the bacteria. Listeriosis has been recognized as an important public health problem in the United States. The term listeriosis encompasses a wide variety of disease symptoms that are similar in animals and humans. Listeria monocytogenes causes listeriosis in animals and humans; L. ivanovii causes the disease in animals only, mainly sheep.
Listeriosis, a serious infection usually caused by eating food contaminated with the bacterium Listeria monocytogenes, is an important public health problem in the United States. 