The processes that use the mechanisms are: Cellular respiration – ATP is generated by oxidation of organic molecules, the passage of electrons down an electron transport chain, and chemiosmosis. The final electron acceptor is almost always inorganic. Aerobic – the final electron acceptor is O 2.
Cellular respiration 3. Glycolysis Glycolysis is a metabolic pathway that is found in the cytoplasm of cells in all living organisms and is anaerobic(that is, oxygen is not required). The process converts one molecule of glucose into two molecules of pyruvate, itmakes energy in the form of two net molecules of ATP. Although there is a theoretical yield of 36-38 ATP molecules per glucose during cellular respiration, such conditionsare generally not realized due to losses such as the cost of moving pyruvate (from glycolysis), phosphate, and ADP(substrates for ATP synthesis) into the mitochondria.
Although there is a theoretical yield of 38 ATP molecules per glucose during cellular respiration, such conditions are generally not realized due to losses such as the cost of moving pyruvate (from glycolysis), phosphate, and ADP (substrates for ATP synthesis) into the mitochondria. Starting with glucose, 1 ATP is used to donate a phosphate to glucose to produce glucose 6-phosphate. Glycogen can be converted into glucose 6-phosphate as well with the help of glycogen phosphorylase. During energy metabolism, glucose 6-phosphate becomes fruct
Oxidative phosphorylation is the step of cellular respiration that  produces the most ATP. The process that uses energy stored in a  hydrogen ion gradient across a membrane … to drive ATP synthase is  chemiosmosis. Judy Olmsted. The Electron Transport process is the third process in cell respiration, it requires oxygen directly. The electron transport chain is a series of electron carriers in the me … mbrane of the mitochondria. Through a series of reactions, the high energy electrons are passed to oxygen
Cellular respiration is the process of oxidizing food molecules, like glucose, to carbon dioxide and water. C6H12O6 + 6O2 + 6H2O → 12H2O + 6 CO2. The energy released is trapped in the form of ATP for use by all the energy-consuming activities of the cell. 1  glycolysis, the breakdown of glucose to pyruvic acid. 
The potential of NADH and FADH 2 is converted to more ATP through an electron transport chain with oxygen as the terminal electron acceptor. Most of the ATP produced by aerobic cellular respiration is made by oxidative phosphorylation. Starting with glucose, 1 ATP is used to donate a phosphate to glucose to produce glucose 6-phosphate. Glycogen can be converted into glucose 6-phosphate as well with the help of glycogen phosphorylase. During energy metabolism, glucose 6-phosphate becomes fruct
This potential is then used to drive ATP synthase and produce ATP from ADP and a phosphate group. Biology textbooks often state that 38 ATP molecules can be made per oxidised glucose molecule during cellular respiration (2 from glycolysis, 2 from the Krebs cycle, and about 34 from the electron transport system). Starting with glucose, 1 ATP is used to donate a phosphate to glucose to produce glucose 6-phosphate. Glycogen can be converted into glucose 6-phosphate as well with the help of glycogen phosphorylase. During energy metabolism, glucose 6-phosphate becomes fruct