An ore deposit is an accumulation of ore. This is distinct from a mineral resource as defined by the mineral resource classification criteria. An ore deposit is one occurrence of a particular ore type. An ore is a type of rock that contains sufficient minerals with important elements including metals that can be economically extracted from the rock. The ores are extracted from the earth through mining; they are then refined (often via smelting) to extract the valuable element, or elements.
This teacher's guide defines what a mineral deposit is and how a mineral deposit is identified and measured, how the mineral resources are extracted, and how the mining site is reclaimed; how minerals and mineral resources are processed; and how we use mineral resources in our every day lives. New mineral deposits are being continuously created by the Earth but may take millions of years to form. Mineral deposits differ from renewable resources, such as agricultural and timber products, which may be replenished within a few months to several years.
Mineral Deposit. an accumulation of mineral matter on the surface or in the earth’s interior that results from geological processes and whose quantity, quality, and conditions of bedding make it suitable for industrial use. Sedimentogenic (surface and exogenous) mineral deposits were formed at the surface or in the surface zone through chemical, biochemical, and mechanical differentiation of mineral substances caused by the earth’s external energy.
Common metal-bearing minerals. A mineral deposit is a natural concentration of minerals in the earth’s crust. The degree of concentration is called the grade of a mineral deposit. An ore deposit is a mineral deposit which has high enough grades of metal that makes it economic to mine. Lateritic soil with concentrated aluminum ore formed by weathering. 1  The settling out of heavy minerals like sulphides or chromium oxides to the bottom of a chamber of cooling molten magma. 2  Simple weathering of rocks can leave an oxidized soil residue of concentrated metal-minerals.
Mineral Deposit. an accumulation of natural mineral raw material of industrial significance. Mineral deposits of sedimentary origin occur in layers (for example, deposits of coal, salts, phosphorites, aluminum and manganese ores, and limestone) that are often intensively deformed—bent into folds and broken by faults. Sedimentogenic (surface and exogenous) mineral deposits were formed at the surface or in the surface zone through chemical, biochemical, and mechanical differentiation of mineral substances caused by the earth’s external energy.
The mineral systems approach to mineral deposit genesis, originally proposed by Wyborn et al (1994), attempts to provide a framework that considers all the geological processes that control the formation and preservation of mineral deposits. An overview of the major mineral systems of Australia is given by Jaques et al. A modified version of these mineral deposit models for Australia's major mineral deposit types is available on the Australian Mines Atlas. Australia's mineral deposits are described in the AUSIMM monographs on the Geology and Mineral Deposits of Australia and Papua New Guinea.
By mineral deposit we mean those areas where minerals and rocks are extracted to be later used by men. It is necessary to specify that, from a formal point of view, we can talk about mineral deposits only if the quantity and quality of rocks and minerals allow men to economically exploit the resource. 
The purpose of this excerpt is to explain how the common types of mineral deposits form and describe the types and Availability of minerals that may be of interest to the recreational collector, Particular emphasis is on gold and gem minerals. Gold, in both lode and placer sources, is abundant in Idaho. 
Mineral deposits are concentrations of minerals and, as such, is a geological term. Whether a mineral deposit is also an ore deposit depends on economics. Ore is therefore an economic term. The ore-mineral constituents in VMS deposits are derived from the igneous rocks of the crust. Pyroxene is a major component of these rocks, and as Cu and Zn are present in pyroxenes in minor amounts through atomic substitution, the resulting fluids are rich in these elements.