protist. n. 1. (Biology) (in some classification systems) any organism belonging to the kingdom Protista, originally including bacteria, protozoans, algae, and fungi, regarded as distinct from plants and animals. It was later restricted to protozoans, unicellular algae, and simple fungi. pro·tist. Any of a large variety of usually one-celled organisms, including the protozoans, most algae, and the slime molds. Protists are eukaryotes (that is, they have cell nuclei) and live in water or in watery tissues of organisms. They are grouped as a separate kingdom in taxonomy. Also called protoctist.
Protista. Definition. noun. A taxonomic kingdom comprised of protists, characterized by being eukaryotic and mostly single-celled. Supplement. Kingdom Protista is one of the five biological kingdoms in the formerly used taxonomic classification of organisms (proposed by Robert Whittaker). Protists are grouped into animal-like (protozoa), plant-like (single-celled and some multicellular, eukaryotic algae), and fungus-like (i.e. slime molds and water molds). 
Medical Definition of PROTIST. : any of a diverse taxonomic group and especially a kingdom (Protista synonym Protoctista) of eukaryotic organisms that are unicellular and sometimes colonial or less often multicellular and that typically include the protozoans, most algae, and often some fungi (as slime molds). — pro·tis·tan \prō-ˈtis-tən\ adjective or noun. See protist defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT.
Characteristics of Protists. Protists are eukaryotic organisms that cannot be classified as a plant, animal, or fungus. They are mostly unicellular, but some, like algae, are multicellular. Kelp, or 'seaweed,' is a large multicellular protist that provides food, shelter, and oxygen for numerous underwater ecosystems. 
pro·tist. Any of a large variety of usually one-celled organisms, including the protozoans, most algae, and the slime molds. Protists are eukaryotes (that is, they have cell nuclei) and live in water or in watery tissues of organisms. They are grouped as a separate kingdom in taxonomy. Also called protoc
Protist. Definition. noun. Any of a group of eukaryotic organisms belonging to the Kingdom Protista. Supplement. Protists do not have much in common apart from a relatively simple organization. They may occur as unicellular, multicellular, coenocytic, or colonial organisms. Protists include: (1) protozoa, the animal-like protists, (2) algae, the plant-like protists, and (3) slime moulds and water moulds, the fungus-like protists. Word origin: Greek protiston-a meaning the (most) first of all ones
Definition of PROTIST. : any of a diverse taxonomic group and especially a kingdom (Protista syn. Protoctista) of eukaryotic organisms that are unicellular and sometimes colonial or less often multicellular and that typically include the protozoans, most algae, and often some fungi (as slime molds). — pro·tis·tan \prō-ˈtis-tən\ adjective or noun. See protist defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT.
any of various complex one-celled organisms, of the kingdom Protista, that have nuclei and organelles and that are either free-living or aggregated into simple colonies: includes the protozoans, slime molds, and eukaryotic algae. Any of a large variety of usually one-celled organisms, including the protozoans, most algae, and the slime molds. Protists are eukaryotes (that is, they have cell nuclei) and live in water or in watery tissues of organisms.
Definition: Protists are organisms in the kingdom Protista. These organisms are eukaryotes, meaning they are made up of single or multiple cells which all contain a nucleus enclosed by a membrane. The protists are a diverse group of eukaryotes that cannot be classified as animals, plants, or fungi. Organisms in the Protista kingdom include amoebae, red algae, dinoflagellates, diatoms, euglena and slime molds. Also Known As: Protista. Examples: One type of protist in the marine environment is Irish moss, which is a species of red algae.