Starchy foods such as potatoes, bread, cereals, rice and pasta should make up about a third of the food you eat, as shown by the eatwell plate. Where you can, choose wholegrain varieties, or eat potatoes with their skins on for more fibre. Starch is the most common form of carbohydrate in our diet. 
Starchy foods like potatoes and pasta have had horrible reputations among dieters for decades. We’ve been told we must stay away from them if we really want to lose weight—but that’s not exactly the truth. LENTILS. Resistant starch content: 1/2 cup, cooked, 3.4 grams. A half-cup of lentils not only packs 3.4 grams of resistant starch, it also carries nine grams of protein and eight grams of filling fiber, making lentils a delicious fat-fighting triple threat.
Photo Credit travellinglight/iStock/Getty Images. The central benefit of eating cold cooked potatoes is in resistant starch -- RS. A tasteless form of fiber, RS aids in weight loss due to its slow absorption rate in the small intestine. This causes most of the dietary bulk of RS to pass as excrement. 
The best sources of resistant starch are legumes, whole grains, corn, cold potato, raw unripe banana, cold pasta, and barley. Shit. That’s a who’s who of ANTI foods (except for the potatoes and bananas). You could make a case for properly prepared beans as well. 
Just eat them cold -- as in vinegar potato salad. If you chill potatoes overnight, they form something called resistant starch crystals -- a constituent of fiber that triggers the production of two hunger-halting hormones, according to research. And resistant starch helps the body incinerate more fat for fuel while making less fat available to stash away in fat cells
1 Resistant starch – along with plenty of regular starch – are found for example in beans, lentils and peas. 2  A lesser portion of the starch in a boiled potato or boiled rice is converted to resistant starch if it’s allowed to cool before being eaten. 3  Raw potatoes or green, unripe bananas are also possibilities. The latest hot trend on health blogs is resistant starch. It seems to have positive effects on blood sugar, especially in type 2 diabetics. Perhaps it also makes you feel fuller and more satisfied, which could facilitate weight loss.
Remove excess starch from potatoes to reduce the amount of carbohydrates in your potato dish. The starch in potatoes gives them their fluffy, soft texture, but also makes potatoes high in carbohydrates. Removing the starch reduces the carbohydrate content, which is helpful when you're following a low-carb diet. In addition, cooking high-starch potatoes makes them soft and crumbly. If you simply want to reduce the amount of starch in your diet, discard the starch and water immediately after soaking the potatoes. But save the starch when you want to make extra crispy hash browns, latkes or home fries.
Aside from the fact that resistant starch in raw potato starch is a prebiotic as countless studies have shown, one of the things that makes it a great and possibly the best prebiotic is ... it's inexpensive. Or are you splitting hairs about raw potato starch vs.resistant starch. The latest hot trend on health blogs is resistant starch. It seems to have positive effects on blood sugar, especially in type 2 diabetics. Perhaps it also makes you feel fuller and more satisfied, which could facilitate weight loss.
More starch is removed from a cut potato than a whole peeled potato, because a greater surface area is exposed on cut potatoes. Soak them in cold water for as long as a few hours to remove more starch than by rinsing alone. You'll notice cloudiness and starch at the bottom of the bowl. If you simply want to reduce the amount of starch in your diet, discard the starch and water immediately after soaking the potatoes. But save the starch when you want to make extra crispy hash browns, latkes or home fries.