6 I. INTRODUCTION Many theories on life span identity and personality development (e.g., Erikson, 1982, Levinson, 1978) emphasise the importance of attaining a sense of integrity and serenity as well as a sense of life satisfaction at the end of one’s life. 21 One could argue that E. Erikson considers the development of integrity and wisdom to be the result of a lifelong development towards coping with maturation because wisdom, as the highest stage of development, gives the strength to be able to face the losses in old age and fear of death.
Associated with the later psychosocial stages envisaged by Erikson and Tornstam’s concept of gerotranscendence is the broader term, ‘wisdom’. Wisdom is generally regarded as being deposited in societal laws and traditions and accrued by individuals through life experience. First, Tornstam regards gerotranscendence as a radical reformulation of the disengagement theory promulgated in the early 1960s by Elaine Cumming and colleagues (Cumming, 1963, Cumming and Henry, 1961 and Cumming and Newell, 1960).
This is true to a degree although others (Joan Erikson in Erikson and Erikson, 1997 and Johnson and Barer, 1993) see Tornstam’s theory as being more concerned with liberation in the present. It has to be noted that the suggestion of Erikson et al. First, Tornstam regards gerotranscendence as a radical reformulation of the disengagement theory promulgated in the early 1960s by Elaine Cumming and colleagues (Cumming, 1963, Cumming and Henry, 1961 and Cumming and Newell, 1960).
The theory of gerotranscendence is based not only on a given research paradigm but also on a paradigm about the individual. Tornstam does not state explicitly how he regards the individual, but it appears that he considers him to be a biological and social being. The concept of gerotranscendence is based primarily on logic, since it is developed on the basis of a theory. The concept has been developed within the gerontological theory tradition, and Tornstam states that the disengagement theory has been very important to him.
“Only when we are so old, only, we are aware of the beauty of life.” Alice Herz Sommer, age 106. A few weeks ago I was in a university library when I happened upon a book quite by accident called Gerotranscendence: A Developmental Theory of Positive Aging by Lars Tornstam, PhD (2005) . As Tornstam puts it, many of us have a tendency to define the present age or time of life as the best one and how the rest of life/our lives should be. We can understand that this may not be true in retrospect, but have difficulty doing so in prospect.
For other uses, see Erikson (disambiguation) . Erikson is a common Scandinavian patronymic surname meaning son of Erik, itself an Old Norse given name. There are other spelling variations of this surname, as it is common amongst Danes, Swedes, Finns, Norwegians, and Germans. Erikson is uncommon as a given name. People with the surname include: 1  Duke Erikson (born 1953), American musician with the band Garbage. 2  Erik Erikson (1902–1994), Jewish German (but a Danish citizen) developmental psychologist and psychoanalyst.
Erikson's stages of psychosocial development. Erikson's stages of psychosocial development, as articulated by Erik Erikson, is a psychoanalytic theory which identifies eight stages through which a healthily developing human should pass from infancy to late adulthood. However, mastery of a stage is not required to advance to the next stage. Erikson's stage theory characterizes an individual advancing through the eight life stages as a function of negotiating his or her biological forces and sociocultural forces. Each stage is characterized by a psychosocial crisis of these two conflicting forces (as shown in the table below)