The Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) recommends shingles vaccine for people aged 60 years and older. Even people who have had shingles can receive the vaccine to help prevent future occurrences of the disease. Your risk for developing shingles increases as you get older. The Shingles Prevention Study found that shingles vaccine significantly reduced disease people aged in 60 years and older. 
The decision on when to get vaccinated should be made with your healthcare provider. Shingles vaccine is approved by the Food and Drug Administration for people aged 50 years and older. However, CDC does not have a recommendation for routine use of shingles vaccine in people 50 through 59 years old. Some people should not get shingles vaccine: 1  A person who has ever had a life-threatening or severe allergic reaction to gelatin, the antibiotic neomycin, or any other component of shingles vaccine. 2  Tell your doctor if you have any severe allergies. 3  A person who has a weakened immune system because of:
This one's a no-brainer if you're 60 or older: Yes, it's a good idea to get the Zostavax vaccine, and the sooner the better. If you've already had shingles (herpes zoster), there's no guarantee that you won't get it again and again. That's why the vaccine is so important. And if you happen to get shingles again after vaccination, the episode will likely be shorter and much less troublesome. Sign up for the AARP Health Newsletter. 
You should NOT get the shingles vaccine if you. 1  have an active case of shingles or have pain that continues after the rash is gone. 2  have ever had a life-threatening or severe allergic reaction to gelatin, the antibiotic neomycin, or any other component of the shingles vaccine. When To Get the Vaccine. The decision on when to get vaccinated should be made with your health care provider. The shingles vaccine is not recommended if you have active shingles or
CDC recommends that people 60 years old and older get shingles vaccine to prevent shingles and PHN. Shingles vaccine has been used since 2006. Zostavax® is the only shingles vaccine currently approved for use in the United States. This vaccine reduces the risk of developing shingles by 51% and PHN by 67%. Some people should not get shingles vaccine: 1  A person who has ever had a life-threatening or severe allergic reaction to gelatin, the antibiotic neomycin, or any other component of shingles vaccine. 2  Tell your doctor if you have any severe allergies. 3  A person who has a weakened immune system because of:
Even if you have had shingles, you can still get the shingles vaccine to help prevent future occurrences of the disease. There is no maximum age for getting the vaccine, and only a single dose is recommended. When To Get the Vaccine. The decision on when to get vaccinated should be made with your health care provider. The shingles vaccine is not recommended if you have active shingles or pain that continues after the rash is gone.
The shingles vaccine (Zostavax) is recommended for adults age 60 and older, whether they've already had shingles or not. Although the vaccine is approved for people age 50 and older, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention isn't recommending it until you reach age 60. The shingles vaccine isn't recommended if you: 1  Have ever had an allergic reaction to gelatin, the antibiotic neomycin or any other component of the shingles vaccine. 2  Have a weakened immune system due to HIV/AIDS or another disease that affects the immune system.
People 60 years of age or older should get shingles vaccine. They should get the vaccine whether or not they recall having had chickenpox, which is caused by the same virus as shingles. Studies show that more than 99% of Americans aged 40 and older have had chickenpox, even if they don't remember getting the disease. Some people should not get shingles vaccine: 1  A person who has ever had a life-threatening or severe allergic reaction to gelatin, the antibiotic neomycin, or any other component of shingles vaccine. 2  Tell your doctor if you have any severe allergies. 3  A person who has a weakened immune system because of:
Even if the shingles vaccine doesn’t prevent you from getting shingles, it can still reduce the chance of having long-term pain. If you have had shingles before, you can still get the shingles vaccine to help prevent future occurrences of the disease. There is no maximum age for getting the vaccine. When To Get the Vaccine. The decision on when to get vaccinated should be made with your health care provider. The shingles vaccine is not recommended if you have active shingles or pain that continues after the rash is gone.