The phosphate group and polar head region of the molecule is hydrophillic (attracted to water), while the fatty acid tail is hydrophobic (repelled by water). When placed in water, phospholipids will orient themselves into a bilayer in which the non-polar tail region faces the inner area of the bilayer.
In a phospholipid, there are only two fatty acids. One of the outer carbons of the glycerol is attached to a phosphate group, or, more often, to a group that includes a phosphate group.
Medical Definition of PHOSPHOLIPID. : any of numerous lipids (as lecithins and phosphatidylethanolamines) in which phosphoric acid as well as a fatty acid is esterified to glycerol and which are found in all living cells and in the bilayers of cell membranes—called also phosphatide, phospholipin.
Most phospholipids contain a “diglyceride”, a phosphate group and a simple organic molecule such as choline, which is a water-soluble essential nutrient. In water based solution, the phospholipids automatically arrange themselves into a double layer, or as a “phospholipid bi layer”.
A phospholipid is composed of two fatty acids, a glycerol unit, a phosphate group and a polar molecule. Photo Credit: Image credit: Ties van Brussel / Tiesworks.nl. Phospholipids belong to the lipid family of biological polymers.
Phospholipids are a class of lipids that are a major component of all cell membranes. They can form lipid bilayers because of their amphiphilic characteristic. The structure of the phospholipid molecule generally consists of two hydrophobic fatty acid tails and a hydrophilic head consisting of a phosphate group. The two components are joined together by a glycerol molecule. The phosphate groups can be modified with simple organic molecules such as choline.
Definition of PHOSPHOLIPID. : any of numerous lipids (as lecithins and phosphatidylethanolamines) in which phosphoric acid as well as a fatty acid is esterified to glycerol and which are found in all living cells and in the bilayers of cell membranes. ADVERTISEMENT.