Under British rule, Malaya was one of the most profitable territories of the Empire, being the world's largest producer of tin and later rubber. The Malayan Union was dissolved and replaced by the Federation of Malaya in 1948. It became fully independent on 31 August 1957. Before the formation of Malayan Union in 1946, the territories were not placed under a single unified administration. Instead, British Malaya comprised the Straits Settlements, the Federated Malay States, and the Unfederated Malay States.
Best Answer: Malaya: The pre 16th September,1963 federated 11 states of the Malay peninsula ....it gained independence from the British on 31st August, 1957. Malaya is the old name before independant, it consists of 11 states on the western penisular (where the capital Kuala Lumpur is). Malaysia is the new name given upon independant from the British on 31-08-1957, it consists of 11 states on the western penisular.
LOCATION AND SIZE. Malaysia is situated in Southeast Asia, bordered by Thailand in the north, Indonesia in the south, and the Philippines in the east. The country has an area of 329,758 square kilometers (127,320 square miles). 
Where is Malaysia. Malaysia is a nation located in the Southeast Asia, bordered by Thailand, Indonesia, and Brunei, and shares water boundaries with Singapore, Vietnam, and the Philippines. Malaysia has coasts along the South China Sea. Print. Malaysia is bordered by Thailand on the peninsula, and Indonesia and Brunei on the island of Borneo. Malaysia covers an area of 329,847 square kilometers (127,355 square miles).
Confidence votes 3. Malaysia is located in southeast Asia. It includes the Malay Peninsula (south of Myanmar) and part of the island of Borneo. It borders Thailand to the north and the countries of Brunei and Indonesia on Borneo. The Malay Peninsula & part of the island of Borneo. Malaysia is located in the middle of South East Asia. Southeastern Asia, p … eninsula bordering Thailand and northern one-third of the island of Borneo, bordering Indonesia, Brunei, and the South China Sea, south of Vietnam. 2 people found this useful.
Share |. Map showing Where is Malaysia located on the world map. The given Malaysia location map shows that Malaysia located in the south-east of Asia. Malaysia is a group of islands along with the mainland which is attached with Thailand through the thin land strip known as Kra isthmus. Hence, the Malaya peninsula shares its international boundary with Thailand; on the other hand, on the Borneo Island, Malaysia shares its international boundaries with Indonesia in the western part and Brunei in the north and north-east.
Malaya may refer to: 1  Malay Peninsula, a region in southeast Asia. 2  Malay Archipelago, the broader macroregion. 3  Malaya Mountains, place in Hindu mythology. Look up Malaya, Malayan, or malaya in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.
Malaysia: A newly formed country on 16th September, 1963 consisting of the 11 states of Malaya [above], with the two states of Sarawak and Sabah[previously North Borneo] both of which gained independence from the British on 31st August, 1963. Malaya is the old name before independant, it consists of 11 states on the western penisular (where the capital Kuala Lumpur is). Malaysia is the new name given upon independant from the British on 31-08-1957, it consists of 11 states on the western penisular.