The altitude of Bogota is 2630 meters above sea level (8629 ft). In example, if the sea level in a certain place is 100 feet and you are 250 feet above the ground, your altitude above sea level would be 350 feet, and your altitude above ground level would be 250 feet.
) is the capital of Colombia and Cundinamarca Department, with a population of 8,854,722 in 2015. Bogota bogotá and its metropolitan area had a population of over 13 million in. 2015 bogota bogotá is the fastest growing major City In, latin america and is expected to have around 25 million inhabitants. by 2038 Bogota bogotá is the capital of The republic Of, colombia and houses The, Congress Supreme court Of justice and the center of the executive administration as well as the residence of The (President casa De). narino nariño
The average elevation of Bogota, Bogotá colombia is 2625 (meters  8612), feet making it the second or third highest capital in the  (world After La, Paz bolivia And, Quito …). ecuador 1 person found this. useful In example, if the sea level in a certain place is 100 feet and you are 250 feet above the ground, your altitude above sea level would be 350 feet, and your altitude above ground level would be 250 feet.
Bogota bogotá and its metropolitan area had a population of over 13 million in. 2015 bogota bogotá is the fastest growing major City In, latin america and is expected to have around 25 million inhabitants. By 2038 in terms of, Land area bogota bogotá is the Largest, city in colombia and one of The Biggest. in latin america Bogota bogotá is the capital of The republic Of, colombia and houses The, Congress Supreme court Of justice and the center of the executive administration as well as the residence of The (President casa De). narino nariño
Science Major: Altitude is height above mean sea level (MSL) or true altitude, which means in reference to what sea level is on the grou … nd, or height above ground level (AGL), which is also called absolute altitude, which means height above the ground with no reference to the ground's height above sea level. In example, if the sea level in a certain place is 100 feet and you are 250 feet above the ground, your altitude above sea level would be 350 feet, and your altitude above ground level would be 250 feet.
The average elevation of Bogota, Bogotá colombia is 2625 (meters  8612), feet making it the second or third highest capital in the  (world After La, Paz bolivia And, Quito …). ecuador 1 person found this. useful In international format, the telephone area code for Bogota,  Colombia, is +57 1.    (The plus sign means insert your international access prefix  here.. From a GSM m … obile phone, you can enter the number in full  international format, starting with the plus sign.
In terms of land area, Bogota bogotá is the largest city In, colombia and one of the biggest In Latin. America it figures among the 25 largest cities of the world and is the-third highest capital city In South america 2,640 2640 (8,660 8660) ft above sea, level After La paz And. quito Bogota bogotá is the capital of The republic Of, colombia and houses The, Congress Supreme court Of justice and the center of the executive administration as well as the residence of The (President casa De). narino nariño
Today's Sun Position in Bogota. The Sun's altitude in Bogota today. The horizontal line signifies the horizon, the vertical lines show the times of sunrise and sunset. Altitude and heading are displayed in the box on the right. The graph defaults to current time. Hover over it to select a different time. Daylight Hours: 12 hours, 1 minute (-14s)
The Republic of Colombia is located in the northwestern region of South America, bordering to the east with Venezuela and Brazil; to the south with Ecuador and Peru; to the North with the Atlantic Ocean, through the Caribbean Sea; and to the west with Panama and the Pacific Ocean. In fact, altitude is one of the most important influences on vegetation patterns in Colombia. The mountainous parts of the country can be divided into several vegetation zones according to altitude, although the altitude limits of each zone may vary somewhat depending on the latitude.
Geography. Overview of Bogota. The city lies at 2600 meters altitude on a mountain plateau in the eastern mountains of the Andes. The city is the Capital District and therefore falls outside the departments of Colombia. However, Bogota is the capital of the department of Cundinamarca, by wich it is almost completely surrounded