A corporate successor is a corporation that takes on the burdens of a previous corporation through merger, acquisition, or other means of succession. Successor liability is an important issue in areas such as product liability, environmental concerns, and labor and employment law. This situation arises, for example, in nonbankruptcy sales such as bulk transfers, receivership and foreclosure/ UCC Article 9 sales. In in context of a claim that a defective product has caused personal injury, successor liability is more aptly treated as a matter of tort law than contract law.
There are three sorts of successions, to wit: testamentary succession; legal succession; and, irregular succession. 1. Testamentary succession is that which results from the Constitution of the heir, contained in a testament executed in the form prescribed by law. The right and transmission of the rights an obligations of the deceased to his heirs. Succession signifies also the estate, rights and charges which a person leaves after his death, whether the property exceed the charges, or the charges exceed the property, or whether he has left only charges without property.
One who succeeds to the rights or the place of another: particularly, the person or persons who constitute a corporation after the death or removal of those who preceded them as corporators. One who has been appointed or elected to hold an office after the term of the present Incumbent. 
2. There are three sorts of successions, to wit: testamentary succession; legal succession; and, irregular succession. 1. Testamentary succession is that which results from the constitution of the heir, contained in a testament executed in the form prescribed by law. 2. Legal succession is that which is established in favor of the nearest relations of the deceased.
Successor Law. The law of the various states governs the affairs of successor corporations -- outside of bankruptcy. A state law, for example, may allow a creditor of a defunct corporation to make a legal claim against that corporation’s successor, within a limited time. The law often holds that if a new company carries out the same business with the same assets and in the same location, it can be held liable for the obligations of its predecessor, even if by the terms of the transfer the successor is held not responsible.
successor. n. 1. (Professions) a person or thing that follows, esp a person who succeeds another in an office. 2. (Logic) logic the element related to a given element by a serial ordering, esp the natural number next larger to a given one. The successor of n is n + 1, usually written Sn or n'. (səkˈsɛs ər). 
Successor Law & Legal Definition. A successor is a person or entity who takes over and continues the role or position of another. For example, in trust law, many grantors and their respective spouses act as the initial trustees of a revocable living trust. In this situation, they remain in control until they are incapacitated or die. Then pre-selected successor trustees are appointed in under the terms of the declaration of trust. This situation arises, for example, in nonbankruptcy sales such as bulk transfers, receivership and foreclosure/ UCC Article 9 sales. In in context of a claim that a defective product has caused personal injury, successor liability is more aptly treated as a matter of tort law than contract law.
legal successor (ˈliːɡəl səkˈsɛsə). 1  a person or thing that legally follows, esp a person who succeeds another in an office ⇒ ■ The legal successor in the royal line of Wessex, when Edward the Confessor died childless, was Edmund Ironside's grandson Edgar Atheling. 
Use successor in a sentence. LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. noun. The definition of a successor is a person or thing that comes after another. The son of a king who will become king next is an example of the king's successor. a person or thing that succeeds, or follows, another; esp., one who succeeds to an office, title, etc. successor-Legal Definition. n. A person who takes over the rank, office, duties, or privileges of another; a corporation that through merger, buy-out, or other means acquires the duties, stock, rights, and debts of another corporation, known as the predecessor. 1  Link/Cite.
2. Legal succession is that which is established in favor of the nearest relations of the deceased. 3. Irregular succession is that which is established by law in favor of certain persons or of the state in default of heirs either legal or instituted by testament. The right and transmission of the rights an obligations of the deceased to his heirs. Succession signifies also the estate, rights and charges which a person leaves after his death, whether the property exceed the charges, or the charges exceed the property, or whether he has left only charges without property.