The ionosphere is defined as the layer of the Earth's atmosphere that is ionized by solar and cosmic radiation. It lies 75-1000 km (46-621 miles) above the Earth. During the night, without interference from the Sun, cosmic rays ionize the ionosphere, though not nearly as strongly as the Sun. These high energy rays originate from sources throughout our own galaxy and the universe -- rotating neutron stars, supernovae, radio galaxies, quasars and black holes.
A region of the Earth's atmosphere in which atoms are often ionized (electrically charged) by radiation from the sun. The ionosphere lies mostly in the lower thermosphere, from about 43 to 250 miles (69 to 402.5 kilometers) above the Earth. The upper layer of the atmosphere that lies above the stratosphere and is about 217 mi (350km) thick. 2. The area of the Earth’s atmosphere in which ionization caused by solar radiation affects the transmission of radio waves.
The ionosphere is that region of the upper atmosphere of a planet where charged particles (electrons and ions) of thermal energy are present, which are the result of ionization of the neutral atmospheric constituents by electromagnetic and corpuscular radiation. The termination of the ionosphere is then the indirect result of the solar wind interaction; e. g., in the case of Earth, represented by the boundary between solar-wind induced convective motions inside the magnetosphere and the co-rotating ionospheric plasma called the plasmapause.
Source: NASA. The ionosphere is defined as the layer of the Earth's atmosphere that is ionized by solar and cosmic radiation. Short wave radiation that penetrates the Earth's atmosphere does not reach the surface. A few examples of short wave radiation are x-rays, ultraviolet and gamma rays. When these waves pass through the atmosphere, they ionize molecules of oxygen and nitrogen and create a thin ionized region known as the ionosphere. The ionosphere is very important because it can be used to help transmit radio waves across the globe. The radio waves are able to bounce off the ionosphere for communication purposes.
The ionosphere is a layer of the Earth's atmosphere that is ionized by solar wind. Solar wind exists because the corona, which is the outermost layer of the sun's atmosphere, is extremely hot and wide. 
The Ionosphere is part of Earth’s upper atmosphere, between 80 and about 600 km where Extreme UltraViolet (EUV) and x-ray solar radiation ionizes the atoms and molecules thus creating a layer of electrons. the ionosphere is important because it reflects and modifies radio waves used for communication and navigation. 
The ionosphere is a layer of the earth 's atmosphere that is weakly ionized, and thus conducts electricity. It is located approximately in the same region as the top half of the mesosphere and the entire thermosphere in the upper atmosphere, from about 40 mi (60 km), continuing upward to the magnetosphere. ionosphere Wide region of ions in the atmosphere. It extends from about 60km (37mi) above the Earth 's surface to the limits of the atmosphere in the Van Allen radiation belts. Radio waves are deflected in the ionosphere, which makes possible long-distance radio communication.
The ionosphere is a shell of electrons and electrically charged atoms and molecules that surrounds the Earth, stretching from a height of about 50 km (31 mi) to more than 1,000 km (620 mi). The F layer or region, also known as the Appleton-Barnett layer, extends from about 150 km (93 mi) to more than 500 km (310 mi) above the surface of Earth. It is the densest point of the ionosphere, which implies signals penetrating this layer will escape into space.
The lower most region of the ionosphere extending from about 50 km to 90 km is the D-region, which principally absorbs radio waves. Above the D layer is the E-region extending from 90 km to 150 km. The peak in the E region during day time is seen near 110 km. The termination of the ionosphere is then the indirect result of the solar wind interaction; e. g., in the case of Earth, represented by the boundary between solar-wind induced convective motions inside the magnetosphere and the co-rotating ionospheric plasma called the plasmapause.