Asceticism and monasticism are almost synonymous terms as the origins of the ascetical life are the origins of monasticism.
1 Asceticism is abstaining from worldly pleasures, often (though not always) with a religious aim. 2  Monasticism is a religious renunciation of worldly pursuits, to devote oneself to purely religious pursuits.
Christian monasticism first emerged as a distinct movement in the early fourth century, but it was not so much an innovation as a fresh expression of the ascetic spirit present in Christianity from the start.
Monastic or religious asceticism. The establishment of religious orders was not the result of any sudden or mandatory legislation by the Church. On the contrary, the germs of religious life were implanted in it by Christ Himself from the very beginning.
Monasticism is similar to asceticism, but with a slightly different focus. Whereas ascetics practice extreme self-denial, monks seclude themselves from all earthly influences in an attempt to live a godly life and to keep their personal religious vows.
Both asceticism and monasticism have been adopted by worshipers of various faiths. In general, asceticism is the practice of strict self-denial as a means of attaining a higher spiritual plane. Monasticism is the state of being secluded from the world in order to fulfill religious vows. While most monks are ascetic, ascetics do not have to be monks. Asceticism comes from the Greek word askesis, meaning exercise, training, practice.. Ascetics renounce worldly pleasures that distract from spiritual growth and enlightenment and live a life of abstinence, austerity and extreme self-denial.
Asceticism is personal, or may be part of something social. Monasticism, however, is definitely social, involving other monks and a canon, whether its practice is solitary or in a group.
Asceticism was practised in biblical times, and events like the temptations of Jesus in the wilderness and the lifestyle of John the Baptist in the desert were later regarded as helpful models when monasticism became the leading representation of asceticism.