The CDC has campaigned against antibiotic use for years. Whatever the reason, it is a simple truth that in 99% of cases you will not be diagnosed with LD through a mainstream MD and even if you are, you may not receive proper updated treatment protocols. It depends on how long you have had LD, if co-infections are involved, viral co-infections and a host of other factors. Some LD patients compare it to cancer and there are similarities. LD and the co-infections can possibly kill (if left untreated for years) the treatments can be prolonged and excruciating.
Bartonella disrupts your body with its toxins. Just like a class clown, Bartonella symptoms can be annoying to downright disruptive to how you feel. This infection is also called “cat scratch fever,” because you can get it from an infected cat as well as ticks. Many people report symptoms of burning feet, legs, and arm
This is why a good history and clinical findings are so important. Bartonella is commonly found with other infections such as Borrelia burgdorferi (Lyme disease) and is often referred to as a co-infection. What most people don’t know is that Bartonella actually suppresses Lyme disease and becomes the primary infection. Bartonella can enter and harm every organ system in the body by way of its attachment or infiltration of the red blood cell, and it can cause multiple illnesses throughout the body. Natural treatment options can be used as a standalone therapy or can be taken alongside or after antibiotic treatment. 1  Nutrition is first and foremost. 2  You need to have the right building blocks for your body to battle this
It is entirely possible that you've had bartonella (and maybe Lyme) for 14 years without knowing it. There are other readers of this blog who had Lyme for 20 years or more before being accurately diagnosed. You should definitely look into it, especially if the rash matches. 
Instead, it is believed that Lyme can become chronic. If you have symptoms of Lyme, a week or two of antibiotics will not cure you, in fact there is no cure and as long as you have symptoms, LLMD's will insist you must be on high dose long term antibiotics. It depends on how long you have had LD, if co-infections are involved, viral co-infections and a host of other factors. Some LD patients compare it to cancer and there are similarities. LD and the co-infections can possibly kill (if left untreated for years) the treatments can be prolonged and excruciating.
Bartonella can live in infected cats for at least two years. Some authorities think that fleas can spread the disease to people but others do not. We do know that dried “flea dirt” which is digested blood, can contain living bartonella for over nine days. Cat scratch fever is a bacterial infection of cats and people that is caused by a small, fragile bacteria, Bartonella henselae. There are other bartonella that occasionally cause this disease as well. Most people develop this disease after being scratched or bitten by an infected cat.
You can get infected from cat bites/scratches, mites, fleas, mosquitoes, biting flies and of course ticks. The most commonly known Bartonella-related disease is commonly referred to as cat scratch disease, and can be carried in a cat’s bloodstream for months to years. Sadly, antibody blood tests only detect a few strains. So your test result may say negative for Bart (and Lyme for that matter) but you still have it. 
Though people have known of cat scratch disease – the most public of the human diseases caused by Bartonella infection – for more than 100 years, Breitschwerdt said he’s convinced that Bartonella is the stealth cause of many neurological, inflammatory and chronic diseases in humans. If the bacteria is positively detected, treating Bartonella infection is a daunting task for even otherwise healthy patients. “You cannot float humans or horses in enough Doxycycline to kill this bacteria,” said Breitschwerdt. Treatment, such as Laura’s, requires weeks of multi-antibiotic therapies.
Bartonella can live in many different host animals without causing significant disease. Each host animal has one or more species of Bartonella that is particularly fond of it. For example, cats tend to carry B. henselae and B. clarridgeiae. Wild rats harbor B. doshiae B. grahamii, B. taylorii, and B. tribocorum. In rare instances, Bartonella spreads to the liver, causing granulomas (a ball of immune cells). The illness may also cause Parinaud oculoglandular syndrome, similar to “pink eye.” About 3% of infected individuals develop encephalopathy (brain dysfunction), which causes a number of neurological problems.