In the freezer they’ll last 1-2 months. Bacon is safe to eat for up to a week in the fridge—but raw sausage should be eaten within two days. Both can be frozen for a month, and some sausage will freeze for twice as long.
Red meat and pork can remain in the refrigerator up to 5 days and can be frozen for 4-12 months. Leftover cooked meat will last 3-4 days in the refrigerator and 2-6 months in the freezer. Ground meats (beef, veal, pork, or poultry) can be refrigerated for 1-2 days and frozen for 3-4 months. Lunchmeats and hot dogs will last two weeks in the refrigerator unopened and should be eaten within 3-5 days of opening (hot dogs can go a couple of days longer).
Raw poultry lasts just a day or two in the fridge (at a temperature of 40 degrees Fahrenheit or colder), but up to a year in the freezer. Cooked poultry can be refrigerated a few days longer and should be frozen no longer than 2-6 months.
The USDA says to eat refrigerated leftovers within 4 days. Be aware that how long you leave something out before refrigeration and the size of the container can shorten the edible lifetime. The gist is the longer it's warm, the more [likely] pathogens will be able to multiply to unsafe levels.
After food is cooked, it should sit out at room temperature no more than two hours before being refrigerated to slow down bacteria growth. But once stored in the fridge, leftovers should be eaten up within three to four days because bacteria can still grow even at refrigerator temperatures.
Store cooked meat and dishes containing meat; they should last three to four days in a 35 to 40 degree fridge. Store gravy and meat broths; they will last about one to two days in a 35 to 40 degree fridge. Store chicken and turkey (pieces covered with broth or sauce, or not covered).
Times are based on a refrigerator set at 40 degrees Fahrenheit or colder. Shelf life also depends on the freshness of foods at the time of purchase. 1  Cheese, hard: six months. 2  Butter: 1 to 3 months. 3  Olives and pickles: one month. 4  Fresh eggs (in shell): 3 to 5 weeks. 5  Cheese, soft, unopened: 3 to 4 weeks.