As the seats of the Viceroyalty of New Spain and the Archbishopric of Mexico, was the center of political and religious institutions, but it was also the center of Mexico's economic activity and the residence of social elites in colonial Mexico (1521–1821). The Aztecs were one of the last of the Nahuatl-speaking peoples who migrated to this part of the Valley of Mexico after the fall of the Toltec Empire. Their presence was resisted by the peoples who were already there, but the Aztecs were able to establish a city on a small island on the western side of Lake Texcoco.
Mexico City, Mexico’s largest city and the most populous metropolitan area in the Western Hemisphere, is also known as Distrito Federal, or the federal district. It is the country’s economic and cultural hub, as well as home to the offices of the federal government. Today, Mexico City is the political, economic and social hub of Mexico and the largest metropolitan area in the Western Hemisphere. The city’s nominal gross domestic product per capita is $17,696, the highest of any city in Latin America.
The city now known as Mexico City was founded as Tenochtitlan by the Aztecs in 1325 and a century later became the dominant city-state of the Aztec Triple Alliance, formed in 1430 and composed of Tenochtitlan, Texcoco, and Tlacopan. The Aztecs were one of the last of the Nahuatl-speaking peoples who migrated to this part of the Valley of Mexico after the fall of the Toltec Empire. Their presence was resisted by the peoples who were already there, but the Aztecs were able to establish a city on a small island on the western side of Lake Texcoco.
Between 100 B.C. and 700 A.D., Teotihuacan, teotihuacán the largest-Pre columbian city in The, americas was constructed near-present Day Mexico. City the civilization that built it is also Called, teotihuacan teotihuacán and the influence of this culture can be seen Throughout the Veracruz and. mayan regions A country rich in history, tradition and culture, Mexico is made up of 31 states and one federal district. It is the third largest country in Latin America and has one of the largest populations—more than 100 million—making it the home of more Spanish speakers than any other nation in the world.
Teotihuacan, teotihuacán an ancient city possibly built by The, toltecs is located in the state Of. Mexico the city rose to power in 150.A. d and was a strong influence On mayan. Culture it is also the location of the’world s third largest, pyramid The piramide Pirámide (Del sol pyramid Of). the sun A country rich in history, tradition and culture, Mexico is made up of 31 states and one federal district. It is the third largest country in Latin America and has one of the largest populations—more than 100 million—making it the home of more Spanish speakers than any other nation in the world.
Tenochtitlan. The ancient CAPITAL CITY of the AZTECS which is now present-day Mexico City. Founded c. 1325, it was conquered & destroyed by Cortes & cortés his band Of spanish conquistadors in. 1521
Following independence in 1821 to the current era, Mexico City remains the country's largest and most important city. Post-independence, Mexico City was captured by U.S. forces during the Mexican–American War and saw violence during the Reform War and the French Intervention as well as the Mexican Revolution. The Aztecs were one of the last of the Nahuatl-speaking peoples who migrated to this part of the Valley of Mexico after the fall of the Toltec Empire. Their presence was resisted by the peoples who were already there, but the Aztecs were able to establish a city on a small island on the western side of Lake Texcoco.
Tenochtitlan was the capital of the Aztec Empire before it was conquered by Hernando Cortez, and became what we know today as Mexico City. 
The concentration of mansions and palaces in what is now the Mexico City historic center led it to be nicknamed, the City of Palaces, a sobriquet is often attributed to great savant Alexander von Humboldt, perhaps in error. The Aztecs were one of the last of the Nahuatl-speaking peoples who migrated to this part of the Valley of Mexico after the fall of the Toltec Empire. Their presence was resisted by the peoples who were already there, but the Aztecs were able to establish a city on a small island on the western side of Lake Texcoco.
Modern Mexico City was built on the ruins of an Aztec city named Tenochtitlan. One of the most interesting facts about Mexico City is that when the Aztecs arrived in the Mexico Valley, they themselves became conquerors over the people who had lived in the valley for hundreds of years. Share. Mexico History. The history of Mexico City is a fascinating one, and it sheds light on the heritage that can still be glimpsed in the archaeological ruins in the Historic Center of the city, as well as the neighboring ancient town of Teotihuacan (pictured), an hour's drive outside the city.