Instructions. 1  PREHEAT oven to 250F. Place steaks on a rack over a baking sheet. 2  Rub with 1 tbsp oil and season with salt and pepper. 3  Roast steaks in the centre of the oven for about 20 minutes for medium-rare. Remove from oven. HEAT oil in a medium skillet over high heat. Add steaks and sear until deep brown and crisp, about 3 minutes a side. Hold the steak on their sides and cook the edges for 1 min per side. Remove to rack and let rest for 10 min. 
Step 5: Broil the steaks. -- Ask the people you are serving how they like their steaks cooked. Steaks for those who like their meat well-done should go under the broiler a few minutes before the steaks for those who like their meat rare to medium. -- Place the steaks on the unheated rack of the broiler pan. -- For 1-inch steaks cooked to medium doneness, broil the steaks for about 15 minutes, turning once halfway through cooking time. Allow less time for rare steaks and more time for well-done steaks.
1 PREHEAT oven to 250F. Place steaks on a rack over a baking sheet. 2  Rub with 1 tbsp oil and season with salt and pepper. 3  Roast steaks in the centre of the oven for about 20 minutes for medium-rare. 4  Remove from oven.HEAT oil in a medium skillet over high heat. Add steaks and sear until deep brown and crisp, about 3 minutes a side. Hold the steak on their sides and cook the edges for 1 min per side. Remove to rack and let rest for 10 min.nstructions. 1
Flip the steak and cook for an additional 1-2 minutes over high heat. You won't need as much time on the second side of the steak because it will continue to develop color (from contact with the bottom of the pan) in the oven. Place the steak gingerly inside the pan and lower the skillet's handle back down. 1  Adjust the steak with tongs to ensure that it's getting equal coverage on the pan (for a better crust), but don't press down on the steak with your tongs in an attempt to sear the steak. 2  7 Edit step.
Place a 10-to-12-inch cast-iron skillet in the oven and heat the oven to 500 degrees F. Bring the steak to room temperature. When the oven reaches temperature, remove the skillet and place on the range over high heat for 5 minutes. Coat the steak lightly with oil and sprinkle both sides with a generous pinch of salt. Grind on black pepper. Immediately place the steak in the middle of the hot, dry skillet. Cook 30 seconds without moving. Turn with tongs and cook another 30 seconds, then put the pan straight into the oven for 2 minutes.
Place the pan on the stovetop and turn the heat to high. 3. Immediately place steaks in the middle of the hot, dry pan. Cook 1 to 2 minutes without moving; turn steaks with tongs, and cook another 1 to 2 minutes. 4. Transfer the pan with the seared steaks to the hot oven. Roast in the center of the oven until the steaks are cooked to your liking, about 3 to 5 minutes. Use a meat thermometer to test for doneness: 1  Rare — 125 degrees F (52 degrees C).
1 Return the steak flat in the pan. 2  Transfer the skillet to the oven and cook until an instant-read thermometer reads to desired doneness (oven cooking time will be anywhere from 5-15 minutes depending on the desired doneness of your steak --- for medium-rare 140-145 degrees and for medium 155-160 degrees. 1 Season the steak/s with black pepper, then allow the meat to sit at room temperature for 1 to 1-1/2 hours. 2  Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. 3  Heat the oil in a cast-iron skillet over medium-high heat or just until the oil begins to lightly smoke.
Turn the broiler on and heat the pan you will be cooking the steaks on. Just as you don’t want to throw the steak in a cold pan or on a cold grill, you want to make sure your broiler pan is nice and hot as well. Oil it a little with olive oil and turn the broiler on for 10 minutes. 
1 Place a tablespoon of unsalted butter on each of the steaks and place the skillet directly in the oven. 2  Turn the heat down to 125 degrees Fahrenheit (51.6 degrees Celsius). 3  Cook the steaks in the oven for eight to 12 minutes. 4  Cut into one of the steaks to see if it's cooked to your taste. Here's what to do: 1  Preheat your oven to 400 degrees Fahrenheit (204.4 degrees Celsius). 2  Heat your cast iron skillet over a high heat for five to seven minutes. 3  Pat your steaks dry with the paper towel. 4  The drier they are, the crisper the layer of flavor will be on the steak.