Causes of an Enlarged Spleen. An enlarged spleen can be caused by infections, cirrhosis and other liver diseases, blood diseases characterized by abnormal blood cells, problems with the lymph system, or other conditions. Here are some common causes of an enlarged spleen: Infections. 1  Viral infections, such as mononucleosis. 
The spleen is a very important organ, and asplenia, a condition in which the spleen is not present either congenitally or due to removal in surgery, has been linked to an increased predisposition to certain infections. The spleen also serves as an emergency reservoir of blood. The spleen also has a few minor functions. In the human fetus, the spleen is a secondary site of red blood cell production until the fifth month of gestation, though after birth, red blood cells are only produced in the bone marrow.
The spleen (from Greek σπλήν — splḗn) is an organ found in virtually all vertebrates. Similar in structure to a large lymph node, it acts primarily as a blood filter. The spleen plays important roles in regard to red blood cells (also referred to as erythrocytes) and the immune system. It removes old red blood cells and holds a reserve of blood, which can be valuable in case of hemorrhagic shock, and also recycles iron. The spleen is a center of activity of the mononuclear phagocyte system and can be considered analogous to a large lymph node, as its absence causes a predisposition to certain infections.
An enlarged, swollen or ruptured spleen is a common reason for spleen pain. Around half of people with glandular fever will have a swollen spleen, and other causes include other infections, liver disease, and cancer. The spleen is a soft, spongy organ that is comprised of two types of tissue: 1  Red pulp, comprising blood-filled cavities and special tissues that contain different types of red and white blood cells. 2  White pulp, formed of lymphatic tissue that mostly consists of
The spleen has a number of functions: 1  The red pulp removes damaged and worn-out red blood cells from the blood, which are broken down by macrophages for recycling. 2  It also produces and stores platelets that help your blood clot when you cut yourself. The spleen is a soft, spongy organ that is comprised of two types of tissue: 1  Red pulp, comprising blood-filled cavities and special tissues that contain different types of red and white blood cells. 2  White pulp, formed of lymphatic tissue that mostly consists of
It is also an important organ in the immune system, producing the white blood cells that fight infection and synthesize antibodies. Although the spleen is important for many functions in the body, the spleen is not vital to survival and it is possible to live without a spleen. Without the spleen, other organs in the body (particularly the liver) adapt and increase their ability to fight infection and remove redundant red blood cells. 
1 It also is part of the lymphatic system and produces lymphocytes, a type of white blood cell that are a part of the immune system that helps to prevent and fight infection. 2  The spleen also acts as a reservoir for red blood cells and platelets, should the body need them. 1 Symptoms of an enlarged spleen are usually due to the underlying disease or condition causing it; however, those individuals who do have symptoms may experience. 2  indigestion and a feeling of fullness because the enlarged spleen can compress the stomach, 3  hiccups because of diaphragm irritation.
Front View of the Spleen. The spleen is an organ in the upper far left part of the abdomen, to the left of the stomach. The spleen varies in size and shape between people, but it’s commonly fist-shaped, purple, and about 4 inches long. Because the spleen is protected by the rib cage, you can’t easily feel it unless it’s abnormally enlarged. It acts as a filter for blood as part of the immune system. Old red blood cells are recycled in the spleen, and platelets and white blood cells are stored there. The spleen also helps fight certain kinds of bacteria that cause pneumonia and meningitis.
The spleen plays multiple supporting roles in the body. It acts as a filter for blood as part of the immune system. Old red blood cells are recycled in the spleen, and platelets and white blood cells are stored there. The spleen also helps fight certain kinds of bacteria that cause pneumonia and meningitis.