The properties of compounds are usually very different from the properties of the elements they contain. For example hydrogen and oxygen are both gases at room temperature, but water is a liquid. The reaction between iron and sulphur to make iron sulphide is often used in school to study elements and compounds. 
In this video i'm showing how to make Iron (II) Sulfide (FeS) by the element sulfur and black iron powder... The reaction are pretty easy Fe + S == FeS (The easy way ^_-). Warning! In this reaction dangerous sulfide gases are produced, safety should be taken! You have been warned!! Enjoy and comment on if you wonder =D. 
For example, you can combine iron filings with sulfur to form a mixture. All it takes is a magnet to separate the iron from the sulfur. On the other hand, if you heat the iron and sulfur, you form iron sulfide, which is a compound. Difficulty: Easy. Time Required: Minutes. Here's How: 1  First form a mixture. 2  Stir some iron filings and sulfur together to form a powder. When you melt a mixture of iron and sulfur, you get iron sulfide, which can form pyrite crystals. DEA/A.RIZZI, Getty Images. A mixture occurs when you combine matter in a way where the components can be separated again. A compound results from a chemical reaction between components, forming a new substance
For example powdered iron and powdered sulphur mixed together makes a mixture of iron and sulphur. They can be separated from each other without a chemical reaction, in the way that different coloured sweets can be picked out from a mixed packet and put into separate piles. The iron and sulphur atoms are not joined together in the mixture, but they are joined together in iron sulphide. The iron and sulphur still behave like iron and sulphur in the mixture, but iron sulphide has different properties from both iron and sulphur. You can separate the iron from the mixture using a magnet but this does not work for iron sulphide. 1  Page. 2  1. 3  2. 4  3. 5  4
Iron sulfide (FeS). From OilfieldWiki. Iron(II) sulfide or ferrous sulfide (Br.E. sulphide) is a chemical compound with the formula FeS. In the oil/gas industry, iron sulfides are often present in a sour system due to reaction between corrosion products and hydrogen sulfide. Iron sulfide exists in several distinct forms, which differ in the ratio of sulfur to iron and properties: 1  Pyrrhotite, Fe 1-x S, a mineral, which displays ferrimagnetism and crystallizes in monoclinic system.
Answer by Marcuselliott. Confidence votes 8. If you mean, What elements make up iron sulphide, then they are Iron and Sulphur. Various 'types' of iron sulphide exist, including FeS (iron (II) sulphide), FeS2 (commonly known as pyrite, iron (II) disulphide or fool's gold), and Fe2S3 (iron (III) sulphide).
Iron(II) sulfide or ferrous sulfide (Br.E. sulphide) is a chemical compound with the formula FeS. In practice, iron sulfides are often iron-deficient non-stoichiometric. Powdered iron sulfide is pyrophoric (ignites spontaneously in air). 
Iron sulfide is a chemical compound (different from a mixture of Iron and Sulfur, show by its different physical and chemical properties). It is made of iron and sulfide ions. It has iron in its +2 oxidation state. It is found in the ground as the mineral pyrite. It is shiny like a metal, but it does not conduct electricity. It can make sparks when it is powdered (ground finely).