Italian Somaliland became a trust territory of the United Nations after World War Two. Northern Somalia gained independence from Britain and merged with Southern Somalia (Italian Somaliland) to become the independent country of Somalia in 1960. However, Italy still had a sizable amount of influence in Ethiopia afterward, and Ethiopia was subjected to just as much warfare in World War Two as the official Italian colonies (Palumbo 21). The territory Italy targeted, including Somaliland, Ethiopia, and Libya, were all on the coasts of Africa.
Then in 1912, Italy would take over North Africa (Libya as of today). Beside the two countries that Italy was able to conquer, Eritrea was already known as one of the Kingdoms of Italy during the 1890s. 
On this date in 1960, Somalia gained its independence from Britain. Situated in the horn of East Africa, early on Somalia's economy was based upon the nomadic herding of animals. From the time of America’s Reconstruction (1870s) until World War II (1942), Britain gained control over the Italian portions of Somalia. Four years later, Somalia fought with Ethiopia over the Ogaden region. The country was run by a civilian government for the first few years, until the 1969 military coup of General Muhammed Siad Barre. Siad Barre held power for more than two decades.
Ruled in the 19th century by the Somali Majeerteen Sultanate and the Sultanate of Hobyo, the territory was later acquired in the 1880s by Italy through various treaties. In 1936, the region was integrated into Italian East Africa as part of the Italian Empire. This would last until 1941, during World War II. In 1935, there were over 50,000 Italians settlers living in Italian Somaliland, constituting 5% of the territory's population. Of those, 20,000 resided in Mogadishu (Mogadiscio), representing around 40% of the city's 50,000 residents.
http://org.newtrier.k12.il.us/academics/faculty/hjelmgren/africa09proj3lev.html. Starting in the late nineteenth century, Somalia began to be colonized by Europe. Britain, France, Italy, Egypt and Ethiopia colonized Somalia. Egypt first took over the coast in 1875. Britain wanted to take over the coast of Somalia, in order to guard the Suez Canal. Britain negotiated with local tribe leaders to gain more land. Five years after Egypt’s colonization, Britain created the British Somaliland (Somalia History). 
After WWII, Italy relinquished control and Somalia was given to the United Nations. For 10 years, it was a UN trust territory under Italian administration until 1960, when Somalia was granted independence, merged with the former British protectorate and the Somali Republic was formed. Four years later, Somalia fought with Ethiopia over the Ogaden region. The country was run by a civilian government for the first few years, until the 1969 military coup of General Muhammed Siad Barre. Siad Barre held power for more than two decades.
During the 1800 and 1900's imperialism of Africa and Asia was the new trend in europe. Major powers such as Belgium, France, Germany, Great Britian, and Italy, were begining to realize there were valuable resources in Africa, and so the race to imperialize started.. However, Italy still had a sizable amount of influence in Ethiopia afterward, and Ethiopia was subjected to just as much warfare in World War Two as the official Italian colonies (Palumbo 21). The territory Italy targeted, including Somaliland, Ethiopia, and Libya, were all on the coasts of Africa.
Italy, however, managed to keep Libya under its control until, in 1942, the colonists were expelled. In the northeastern coast of Africa, Italy attempted to colonize two lands, Ethiopia and Somaliland. Italy was able to take Somaliland, but Menelik II, the ruler of Ethiopia, was able to hold them off. Menelik II had u This is a close up of Eritrea, Ethiopia, and Somalia in Eastern Africa nited the formerly fragmented Ethiopia, and had looked to modernize it. However, Italy still had a sizable amount of influence in Ethiopia afterward, and Ethiopia was subjected to just as much warfare in World War Two as the official Italian colonies (Palumbo 21). The territory Italy targeted, including Somaliland, Ethiopia, and Libya, were all on the coasts of Africa.
The European powers (Italy, Great Britain and France) first gained a foothold in Somalia through the signing of various pacts and agreements with the Somali Sultans that then controlled the region, such as Yusuf Ali Kenadid, Boqor Osman Mahamuud and Mohamoud Ali Shire. In 1935, there were over 50,000 Italians settlers living in Italian Somaliland, constituting 5% of the territory's population. Of those, 20,000 resided in Mogadishu (Mogadiscio), representing around 40% of the city's 50,000 residents.
The last piece of land acquired by Italy in Somalia in order to form Italian Somaliland was the Jubaland region. Britain ceded the territory in 1925 as a reward for the Italians having joined the Allies in World War I. In 1935, there were over 50,000 Italians settlers living in Italian Somaliland, constituting 5% of the territory's population. Of those, 20,000 resided in Mogadishu (Mogadiscio), representing around 40% of the city's 50,000 residents.