The Tortoise and The Hare. There once was a speedy hare who bragged about how fast he could run. Tired of hearing him boast, Slow and Steady, the tortoise, challenged him to a race. All the animals in the forest gathered to watch. Hare ran down the road for a while and then and paused to rest.
Hare stretched himself out alongside the road and fell asleep, thinking, There is plenty of time to relax.. Slow and Steady walked and walked. He never, ever stopped until he came to the finish line. The animals who were watching cheered so loudly for Tortoise, they woke up Hare. Hare stretched and yawned and began to run again, but it was too late. Tortoise was over the line. There once was a speedy hare who bragged about how fast he could run. Tired of hearing him boast, Slow and Steady, the tortoise, challenged him to a race. All the animals in the forest gathered to watch. Hare ran down the road for a while and then and paused to rest.
Tortoise vs. Hare is the second animated film in the Unstable Fables series. The direct-to-DVD film, based on Aesop's fable . The Tortoise and the Hare , was released on DVD on September 9, 2008. The film features the voices of Danny Glover, Jay Leno, Vivica A. Fox, Keke Palmer, and Drake Bell. The film won a Film Advisory Board award. The Tortoise and the Hare ), was released on September 9, 2008. The third and final release, The Goldilocks and the 3 Bears Show (based on Goldilocks and the Three Bears), was released on December 16, 2008.
The Tortoise and the Hare, from an edition of Aesop's Fables illustrated by Arthur Rackham, 1912. The Tortoise and the Hare is one of Aesop's Fables and is numbered 226 in the Perry Index. The account of a race between unequal partners has attracted conflicting interpretations. The story concerns a Hare who ridicules a slow-moving Tortoise. Tired of the Hare's boastful behaviour, the Tortoise challenges him to a race. The hare soon leaves the tortoise behind and, confident of winning, takes a nap midway through the race.
The Hare was once boasting of his speed before the other animals. I have never yet been beaten, said he, when I put forth my full speed. I challenge any one here to race with me.. The Tortoise said quietly, I accept your challenge.. That is a good joke, said the Hare; I could dance round you all the way.. 
Yes, replied the Tortoise, and I get there sooner than you think. I'll run you a race and prove it.. The Hare was much amused at the idea of running a race with the Tortoise, but for the fun of the thing he agreed. So the Fox, who had consented to act as judge, marked the distance and started the runners off.
The films' casts include Brad Garrett, Jay Leno and Jamie Lynn Spears. Unstable Fables irreverently and unfaithfully retell classic fairy tales, folktale, and fables with a modern twist. The first film, 3 Pigs and a Baby (based on . Three Little Pigs ), was released on DVD on March 4, 2008. The Tortoise and the Hare ), was released on September 9, 2008. The third and final release, The Goldilocks and the 3 Bears Show (based on Goldilocks and the Three Bears), was released on December 16, 2008.
The Climax of the story is the highest point of the story. So, the climax of the Totoise and the Hare is during the race. The Hare falls asleep, and the tortoise finishes firs … t. The Hare thinks she is better than the Tortoise, so she is schocked when she wins. 5 people found this useful. 