States are responsible for addressing any issues not covered by Federal Law, as long as state laws conform to the US constitution. For example, they must establish local governments, regulate intrastate commerce, conduct elections, and establish a state C
The United States has a federal government and each of the 50 states has a state government. This lesson explains the organization of state governments, and explores the powers and responsibilities of state governments.
Education. State governments are responsible for the education of their residents. States have freedom in administering the nation’s public education system, which receives the lion’s share of state and local money. The nation’s 15,000 school districts are governed by elected school boards.
State governments are responsible for the education of their residents. States have freedom in administering the nation’s public education system, which receives the lion’s share of state and local money. The nation’s 15,000 school districts are governed by elected school boards.
Each of the 50 states has a state government system. Several states had a state constitution and an organized government even before the U.S. had its Constitution. A state constitution is a document that lays down governmental structure, political processes, and limitations on the use of power by a state.
Water supply to cities and towns for drinking is the responsibility of the State governments. Irrigation for farmers is also provided under the control of State governments. Image 1 - Education is one of the most important responsibilities
State governments are in charge of making sure that there is enough land for all the people in the State to have housing. This is also known as the planning role of the government. Housing is also provided to low income earners by State governments.
The states have many responsibilities within government. They are  responsible for administering decisions on roads, education, their  justice system, public safety, collect … ing revenues, and  implementing federal mandates.
State governments are charged with the duty to make sure the roads under their care are well maintained. The roads and highways in each state are divided between local, state and federal governments. States build and maintain roads and highways through their local state Department of Transportation.