Other Signs. Tapeworm sufferers may see part of the ribbon-like worm in the stool. Presence of a worm in vomit or stool may also be the first sign of an infection with ascariasis, or roundworm. Ascariasis -- a type of roundworm infection -- can cause symptoms similar to pneumonia, such as coughing, wheezing and fever. This occurs when larvae migrate to the lungs before intestinal infection takes place, making its diagnosis difficult.
Intestinal and stomach worms in humans like tapeworm, roundworm, pin worms and their natural homeopathy treatment. Human intestinal parasites are usually intestinal worms that live in the small or large intestine and use the stool or blood from intestinal wall as a source of food. Worms are intestinal parasites, which infest human beings as well as animals like cats, dogs etc. Fatigue, Symptoms include tiredness, flue-like symptoms, apathy, depression and a lack of concentration. Gas and Stomach Bloating, Some parasites live in the upper intestine, which can cause both gas and stomach bloating.
Threadworms are small, white worms that infect the intestines of humans. They are between 2 millimetres to 13 millimetres long and look like a piece of cotton thread, hence the name. They are sometimes known as pinworms. They are the most common worm parasite in children in the UK, affecting up to half of all under 10s. 
Intestinal parasites, including tape worms, round worms and pin worms, are much more common than most people would like to acknowledge. While the idea of critters in a colon can give anyone the creeps, it is important to know how to recognize the symptoms of worms in humans and seek prompt treatment. Stomach Pain. Gassy stomach pain can be a sign of worm infestation, although there are many other causes, including irritable bowel syndrome, ulcers and food intolerance. Pain from worms can appear anywhere in the abdomen.
Because there are different types of worms and tapeworms that can infect people, diagnosing a tapeworm infection may require a stool sample to identify the type of worm. If worms are not detected in the stool, your doctor may order a blood test to check for antibodies produced to fight tapeworm infection. Although tapeworms in humans usually cause few symptoms and are easily treated, they can sometimes cause serious, life-threatening problems. That's why it's important to recognize the symptoms and know how to protect yourself and your family.
Tapeworms in Humans. Tapeworms are flat segmented worms that live in the intestines of some animals. Animals can become infected with these parasites when grazing in pastures or drinking contaminated water. Eating undercooked meat from infected animals is the main cause of tapeworm infection in people. Although tapeworms in humans usually cause few symptoms and are easily treated, they can sometimes cause serious, life-threatening problems. That's why it's important to recognize the symptoms and know how to protect yourself and your family.
General symptoms may appear few weeks or several months after infestation and include paleness, weakness, tiredness (from anemia due to lost blood sucked by worms), restlessness, disturbed sleep and weight loss (due to loss of nutrients used by worms). Abdominal symptoms can last from weeks to months and include: 
Some bloodsucking worms leave leave open wounds resulting in darker feces. The loss of blood can cause iron deficiency, anemia and dizziness. Other symptoms caused by parasitic infections include: Allergies, Many allergies in humans are caused by worm infections. Tissue becomes inflamed and reactions to foods are the result when eosinophils (white blood cells) are increased due to them. Fatigue, Symptoms include tiredness, flue-like symptoms, apathy, depression and a lack of concentration. Gas and Stomach Bloating, Some parasites live in the upper intestine, which can cause both gas and stomach bloating.
Upper abdominal pain, loss of appetite and diarrhea may occur with intestinal worms. Tapeworm may develop if a person ingests an infected flea from their pet. Tapeworm can also result from eating undercooked fish, pork or beef contaminated with the parasite. Ascariasis -- a type of roundworm infection -- can cause symptoms similar to pneumonia, such as coughing, wheezing and fever. This occurs when larvae migrate to the lungs before intestinal infection takes place, making its diagnosis difficult.