Eyeglasses and contact lenses. Medicare does not pay for eyeglasses or contact lenses, with one exception: If you have had a conventional intraocular lens inserted during cataract surgery, Medicare will pay for eyeglasses or contact lenses following the operation. Otherwise, you are on your own
Medicare Part B (Medical Insurance) covers a glaucoma test once every 12 months for people at high risk for glaucoma. The screening must be done or supervised by an eye doctor who's legally allowed to do this test in your state. The page could not be loaded. The Medicare.gov Home page currently does not fully support browsers with JavaScript disabled. Please note that if you choose to continue without enabling JavaScript certain functionalities on this website may not be available.
All people with Part B who are at high risk for glaucoma are covered. You're at high risk if you have diabetes, a family history of glaucoma, are African American and 50 or older, or are Hispanic American and 65 or older. The page could not be loaded. The Medicare.gov Home page currently does not fully support browsers with JavaScript disabled. Please note that if you choose to continue without enabling JavaScript certain functionalities on this website may not be available.
Your doctor or other health care provider may recommend you get services more often than Medicare covers. Or, they may recommend services that Medicare doesn’t cover. If this happens, you may have to pay some or all of the costs. The page could not be loaded. The Medicare.gov Home page currently does not fully support browsers with JavaScript disabled. Please note that if you choose to continue without enabling JavaScript certain functionalities on this website may not be available.
1 If you are 50 or older or at high risk, Medicare will pay for certain ones. 2  You and your doctor should decide on the test and schedule that’s best for you. 3  Diabetes screenings — Medicare covers tests to check for diabetes when you have certain risk factors — like being 65 or older. 1 Glaucoma tests — Glaucoma can lead to blindness, but when you know you have it it’s easy to treat. 2  Medicare covers screenings once a year for people at high risk. 3  Osteoporosis screening — This test, which checks for brittle bone disease, is covered for people at risk once every 24 months, or more if medically necessary.
Medicare does help cover the exam if you have diabetes, or are at risk for glaucoma. Keep in mind that Medicare does not cover refractions for eyeglasses or contacts even as a part of some otherwise covered exams. Check with your eye care professional for more information. Medicare does not cover eyeglasses or contact lenses, except immediately following cataract surgery. Medicare does cover an eye exam for medical reasons, such as in the case of injury or disease.
When billing, the doctor will use Medicare codes that distinguish between the exam and the refraction. If the cost of the exam is $150 and $25 was charged for refraction, Medicare will pay 80 percent of $125 because they do not cover the cost of refraction. Since cataracts are a qualifying medical condition, the cost of the general eye examination is covered. If you have been diagnosed with cataracts and get a routine eye exam where you receive a prescription for new glasses, Medicare will pay for the eye exam, but not the part of the exam known as refraction, when the optometrist tests your visual acuity.
Your costs in Original Medicare. 1  You pay 20% of the Medicare-approved amount, and the Part B deductible applies. 2  In a hospital outpatient setting, you also pay a copayment. The page could not be loaded. The Medicare.gov Home page currently does not fully support browsers with JavaScript disabled. Please note that if you choose to continue without enabling JavaScript certain functionalities on this website may not be available.
Medicare doesn't cover routine eye exams (sometimes called eye refractions) for eyeglasses or contact lenses. Medicare Part B (Medical Insurance) covers some preventive and diagnostic eye exams: 1  Yearly eye exam. 2  Glaucoma tests. 3  Macular degeneration. 