An endangered species is a group of organisms which is at risk of becoming extinct for one or more of three reasons: 1  destruction or interruption of environment, in other words habitat loss; 2  an alteration in the ecological balance resulting in an increase in predators; 3  too few remaining members for sustainable breeding. The International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) maintains a Red List of Threatened Species. This is the most comprehensive inventory of the global status of plant and animal species. IUCN calculates that around 40% of the world's organisms are endangered.
Its purpose is to prevent the extinction of our most at-risk plants and animals, increase their numbers, and effect their full recovery — and, eventually, their removal from the endangered list. Currently, the Act protects more than 1,000 species in the United States. • The more money is spent on a species, the more likely that species is to be recovering. Click on the map to find species in your region. There are hundreds of species whose populations have soared thanks to the Endangered Species Act.
Plastics Kill! B iodiversity is the variety of life (its ecosystems, populations, species and genes). Saving endangered species (plants and animals) from becoming extinct and protecting their wild places is crucial for our health and the future of our children. As species are lost so too are our options for future discovery and advancement. The impacts of biodiversity loss include clearly into fewer new medicines, greater vulnerability to natural disasters and greater effects from global warming
As the loss of one species effects all the other species dependent upon it, if plants or trees are removed extensively from an area, all animals dependent upon these for food, shelter, protection, or for nesting or breeding sites are placed at risk. Some animals are able to disperse to other areas, but some are not. Habitat Loss. Habitat destruction is another major threat that causes animals to become endangered. Habitat loss can occur as a result of human activities, such as deforestation, mining, development, or human encroachment, or it may occur as a result of natural events, such as wildfires or other natural disasters.
The purpose of this document is to provide general guidance on considerations for making effects determinations for Endangered Species Act (ESA) Section 7 consultations. 
Future Effects of Endangerment. Some future effects of endangerment include: overall extinction of species, habitat loss and the loss of services these animals provide us with. 
An endangered species is a officially-designated animal species that is threatened by extinction. This can be due to natural or man-made changes, including chemical pollution, … loss of food sources, loss of habitat, competing species, or excessive hunting. 1 The brain and the nerv…. 2  The Impact of Habitat Destruction on Endangered Species Hundreds of animal species have been placed under protection because they are in danger of becoming extinct.
We can all do our bit to reduce the pressure on our environment to a lesser or larger degree, in order to eliminate the causes and effects on currently endangered and all other species. The following list provides a guideline for starters: 1  Support initiatives to protect and save endangered species. Habitat Loss. Habitat destruction is another major threat that causes animals to become endangered. Habitat loss can occur as a result of human activities, such as deforestation, mining, development, or human encroachment, or it may occur as a result of natural events, such as wildfires or other natural disasters.
All life on Earth is interconnected to form a balanced, healthy ecosystem, and all species are dependent on each other in some way or another. Biodiversity is essential to a healthy planet, yet many species face extinction. Let's explore some of the causes and effects of endangered animal species. Habitat Loss. Habitat destruction is another major threat that causes animals to become endangered. Habitat loss can occur as a result of human activities, such as deforestation, mining, development, or human encroachment, or it may occur as a result of natural events, such as wildfires or other natural disasters.