Floribunda roses offer a bouquet on every branch. The small flowers look like elegant hybrid tea blooms but appear in clusters instead of one flower per stem. Floribundas are a cross between polyantha species roses and hybrid teas, combining hardiness, free flowering, and showy, usually fragrant blooms. Grandiflora roses blend the best traits of hybrid teas and floribundas. They produce the same elegantly shaped blooms as hybrid teas, but in long-stemmed clusters that continually repeat, like
Floribunda (Latin for many-flowering) is a modern group of garden roses that was developed by crossing hybrid teas with polyantha roses, the latter being derived from crosses between Rosa chinensis and Rosa multiflora (sometimes called R. polyantha). Other breeders also began introducing similar varieties, and in 1930 the name floribunda was coined by Dr. J.N. Nicolas, a rose hybridizer for Jackson & Perkins in the US. This term has been used since then to describe cultivars which in their ancestry have crosses between hybrid teas and polyanthas.
Visit the following articles: Floribunda roses first became popular in the middle of the 20th century. They resulted from crosses between hybrid teas and polyanthas. They are renowned for their season-long clusters of medium-size blooms. 
Floribunda roses are more compact in growth making them a perfect landscape shrub or border plant. Floribunda roses produce flowers that are typically borne in clusters. One of the most popular roses used in landscapes today is the Iceberg floribunda rose. More floribunda rose varieties are detailed in the gallery below.
Overview. The floribunda rose is a hardy hybrid of the hybrid tea and the polyantha roses, and was created to be used as an ornamental in the garden. They come in single and double-flower varieties and bloom continuously all season. The floribunda rose is a hardy hybrid of the hybrid tea and the polyantha roses, and was created to be used as an ornamental in the garden
Floribunda Rose. Floribunda Roses are excellent roses for landscaping as they are shorter than Hybrid Teas and they produce profuse clusters of blooms from spring until the first frost. The wide range of colors will provide countless options for the garden. Plants.
Floribunda roses are a result of crosses between hybrid teas and polyanthas. Floribunda roses are known for their long season of blooms. The rose blooms appear in clusters and they are medium sized, about 2 to 3 inches in diameter. Floribunda roses are rarely out of flower. The floribunda roses are easy to grow and quite hardy. 
Clusters of Stunning Beauty! If you love beautiful, large Roses, you'll love Floribundas! Hybrids producing generous, colorful blooms in impressive clusters, these shrubs are ideal for rows and hedges. Jackson and Perkins has a wide selection of colorful Floribundas, including several award-winning varieties of appealing colors and styles! 
Floribunda Roses. The Floribunda Rose is a crossbred flower that is loved for its hardiness in harsh climates, minimal upkeep, and its ability to have continual blooms. They are recongnized for their familiar traits of stocky and rigid shrubbery with an abundance of color, fragrance and beauty