The term prepared refers to the fact that the ground mustard is mixed with other ingredients. There are different types of prepared mustards available, such as Dijon and the standard mustard referred to as ballpark mustard. Prepared mustard is bright yellow to yellow-brown in color, with a sharp, peppery. flavor.
Mustard plants produce three types of mustard seeds (arguably two): Yellow and brown. There are other varieties, like black mustard seeds and even white mustard seeds, but they are variations of yellow and brown. Here's how each plays out:
Three different types of mustard are used as a source of seeds, which can be ground up and used as a condiment, added to pickling mixtures, or included whole in an assortment of marinades, sauces, and curries.
Mustard as a condiment has been around for thousands of years. There are several types of mustard plants, some are grown for their greens and their seeds, others for seeds only. There are three types of seeds available: they are used in condiments, pickles and general cooking. Mustard seeds can be used whole, ground (also known as creamy mustard or smooth mustard), or a combination of the two. Homemade mustard can vary in colour, from bright yellow to dark brown, and heat (mild to very hot).
The term “mustard” is used to describe several plants in the Brassica and Sinapis genera which are used as sources of food. There are a number of different types of mustard which are cultivated for different products, including greens and leaves.
If you like other types of dressing that are spicy, especially things like mustard with horseradish, try wasabi. It is almost entirely horseradish, made into a sauce or paste, and is extremely hot. People often have it with sushi or other asian foods.
At its most basic, mustard is made by mixing the ground seeds of the mustard plant with liquid, but it's the choice of seeds and type of liquid used that creates the varieties of mustard we know today. The magic of mustard's pungency and heat comes from enzymes that convert into mustard oil once the seed is broken.