LOYALTY. The first of the Army Values. Bear true faith and allegiance to the U.S. Constitution, the Army, your unit and other Soldiers. Bearing true faith and allegiance is a matter of believing in and devoting yourself to something or someone. A loyal Soldier is one who supports the leadership and stands up for fellow Soldiers. SELFLESS SERVICE. The fourth of the Army Values. Put the welfare of the Nation, the Army and your subordinates before your own. Selfless service is larger than just one person. In serving your country, you are doing your duty loyally without thought of recognition or gain.
ARMY CORE VALUES LDRSHIP is the acronym which stands for: Loyalty, Duty, Respect, Selfless Service, Honor, Integrity and Personal Courage LOYALTY: Bear true faith and allegiance to the US Constitution, the Army, your unit, and other soldiers. 
The seven Army Values CaseEx vignettes are based on actual Soldier interviews. Each Army Value has a home station and combat scenario which are presented in two parts. Part 1 describes a particular situation or dilemma faced by the Soldier and part 2 presents the Soldier’s solution. Army Values Training is required IAW AR 350-1, Section G4, Table G1. This training is intended to provide both sustainment of the Army’s core values and an opportunity to further the development of Soldiers and Leaders of character.
Army Values and the Leader. LOYALTY. Leaders who demonstrate loyalty: 1  Bear true faith and allegiance in the correct order to the Constitution, the Army, and the organization. 2  Observe higher headquarters' priorities. 3  Work within the system without manipulating it for personal gain.
The third of the Army Values. Treat people as they should be treated. In the Soldier’s Code, we pledge to “treat others with dignity and respect while expecting others to do the same.” Respect is what allows us to appreciate the best in other people. SELFLESS SERVICE. The fourth of the Army Values. Put the welfare of the Nation, the Army and your subordinates before your own. Selfless service is larger than just one person. In serving your country, you are doing your duty loyally without thought of recognition or gain.
1 Loyalty-Bear true faith and allegiance to the U.S. Constitution, the Army, your unit and other Soldiers. 2  Duty-Fulfill your obligations. 3  Respect-Treat people as they should be treated. 4  Selfless Service-Put the welfare of the nation, the Army, and your subordinates before your own. 5  Honor-Live up to all the Army values. LDRSHIP is an acronym for the seven basic values of the United States Army, and stands for. 1  Loyalty-Bear true faith and allegiance to the U.S. Constitution, the Army, your unit and other Soldiers. 2  Duty-Fulfill your obligations. 3  Respect-Treat people as they should be treated. 4  Selfless Service-Put the welfare of the nation, the Army, and your 5  ... Hon
The Seven Army Values Loyalty Bear true faith and allegiance to the U.S. constitution, the Army, and other soldiers. Be loyal to the nation and its heritage. The Decision at the Marias. The men thought the route ran to the northwest up the Marias River, while both Lewis and Clark thought the main river channel ran to the southwest.
Seven Core Army Values (LDRSHIP). Loyalty – Bear true faith and allegiance to the US Constitution, the US Army, your unit, and other soldiers. Duty – Fulfill your obligations. Respect – Treat people as they should be treated. Selfless Service – Put the welfare of the nation, the US Army, and your subordinates before your own.