The Gestation Period for Llamas is approximately 330-350 days from the first breeding. Llamas will not always conceive after one breeding and will generally mate multiple times in one cycle. The Llama Gestation Period Calculator above attempts to generalize the estimation of the due date without any additional factors using a 344 day gestation period for Llamas. The Llama Pregnancy Calculator is a much simpler process to use than the traditional Llama Gestation Chart where you had to count the days until your Llama’s due date. This calculator is no way to take away from the need for you to seek a veterinarian’s professional advice about your Llama’s gestation period.
The gestation period of a llama is 11.5 months (350 days). Dams (female llamas) do not lick off their babies, as they have an attached tongue which does not reach outside of the mouth more than half an inch (1.3 cm). Rather, they will nuzzle and hum to their newborns. [ˈʒama]) (Lama glama) is a domesticated South American camelid, widely used as a meat and pack animal by Andean cultures since pre-Hispanic times. The height of a full-grown, full-size llama is 1.7 to 1.8 m (5.6 to 5.9 ft) tall at the top of the head, and can weigh between 130 and 200 kg (290 and 440 lb).
[ˈʎama]. [ˈʒama]) (Lama glama) is a domesticated South American camelid, widely used as a meat and pack animal by Andean cultures since pre-Hispanic times. The height of a full-grown, full-size llama is 1.7 to 1.8 m (5.6 to 5.9 ft) tall at the top of the head, and can weigh between 130 and 200 kg (290 and 440 lb). At birth, a baby llama (called a cria) can weigh between 9 and 14 kg (20 and 31 lb)
A llama's full gestation is 11 1/2 months or around 350 days. Up to two to three weeks prior to the due date, you may notice signs of the coming delivery with the development of mom's udder, swelling and elongation of the vulva, and also the mom choosing to lay off by herself away from her herdmates. 
QUESTION: How do you tell. RE: If the llama is pregnant, she is not receptive to any male llamas and will spit at them and run from them immediately. She won't want any males near her at all. This is called behavior testing. The second way is to draw blood and do a progesterone test - 21 days or more after she's been bred. 
While some people breed their dogs on purpose, for others it can be a happy accident. Either way, how long do dogs stay pregnant isn’t the only answer most dog owners seek. If your dog is pregnant, you have to understand their bodies and what they are going through in order to care for them as best you can. Generally, there really isn’t much you can do for a pregnant dog. 
Gestation or the length of pregnancy of a cat averages 64 days. It is generally between 62 and 67 days or about 9-10 weeks. You might notice subtle indications of pregnancy after the first 3 weeks. The cat’s nipples will begin to swell and their color will change from white to a rosy pink. 
Mother and baby (dam and cria) will hum to each other, mom making sure cria is o … k/ location of cria, and cria will answer in kind. Llamas hum when they are worried, anxious, and questioning. If you are with a llama long enough (like weeks or months), you can start to tell which hum means what. A happy llama does not hum, though. + 5 others found this useful.