1. Determine if the following compounds are likely to have ionic or covalent bonds. a. magnesium oxide, MgO b. Strontium chloride, SrCl2 c. Ozone, O3 d. Methanol, Ch4 O 2. Identify which 2 of the following substances will conduct electricity, and explain why. a. aluminum foil b. sugar, C12H22O11, dissolved in water. Answers: 1. Determine if the following compounds are likely to have ionic or covalent bonds. a. magnesium oxide, MgO ionic (metal and nonmetal) b. Strontium chloride, SrCl2 ionic (metal and nonmetal) c. Ozone, O3 covalent d. Methanol, CH4O covalent (C and O are nonmetals and H is a metal) *a metal bonded with a nonmetal forms an ionic bond; also, when an element is bonded to itself it forms a covalent bond 2
In CO2, O is more electronegative meaning that it seeks to pull the electron between itself and carbon more strongly which results in unequal sharing of electrons. In O3, when atoms are bonded together, the electrons are shared equally. 7. Analyze whether dinitrogen tetroxide, N2O4, has covalent or ionic bonds. Answers: 1. Determine if the following compounds are likely to have ionic or covalent bonds. a. magnesium oxide, MgO ionic (metal and nonmetal) b. Strontium chloride, SrCl2 ionic (metal and nonmetal) c. Ozone, O3 covalent d. Methanol, CH4O covalent (C and O are nonmetals and H is a metal) *a metal bonded with a nonmetal forms an ionic bond; also, when an element is bonded to itself it forms a covalent bond 2
Ionic bond is that type of bond which is formed by tranferance of single electron from one atom to other.Covalent bond is that type of bond which is formed by equal or matual … sharing of electrons between one atom to another is called covalent bond.eg of ionic bond isNacl the atomic of Na (sodium) is 11 and atomic no. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. I had this same question; because dinitrogen tetroxide has 2 Nitrogen & oxygen atoms, I wrote that it is covalent. My reasoning was that it doesn't combine negative and positive charges, both nitrogen and oxygen have negative charges.
Report Abuse. remember ionic bonds form with metal and non metal. Nitrogen and oxygen are found on the right side of periodic table so they are both nonmetals. Covalent bonds form between nonmetals. 1 You can only upload photos smaller than 5 MB. 2  You can only upload videos smaller than 600MB. 3  You can only upload a photo (png, jpg, jpeg) or a video (3gp, 3gpp, mp4, mov, avi, mpg, mpeg, rm). 4  You can only upload a photo or a video.
covalent b/c they are both nonmetals. A covalent bond is between two elements on the right side of the periodic table, an ionic bond is between the left and right side. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. I had this same question; because dinitrogen tetroxide has 2 Nitrogen & oxygen atoms, I wrote that it is covalent. My reasoning was that it doesn't combine negative and positive charges, both nitrogen and oxygen have negative charges.
In a covalent bond electrons are shared between atoms. In an ionic bond electrons are transferred from one atom to another, resulting in oppositely charged ions. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. I had this same question; because dinitrogen tetroxide has 2 Nitrogen & oxygen atoms, I wrote that it is covalent. My reasoning was that it doesn't combine negative and positive charges, both nitrogen and oxygen have negative charges.
N2O4 has covalent bonds because N and O are both nonmetals; nonmetals form covalent bonds. 8. Which element has the greater bond energy, oxygen or nitrogen? (Hint: Which element has more bonds?) Oxygen can form 6 bonds, but Nitrogen can only form 5 bonds, so Oxygen has a greater bond energy. Answers: 1. Determine if the following compounds are likely to have ionic or covalent bonds. a. magnesium oxide, MgO ionic (metal and nonmetal) b. Strontium chloride, SrCl2 ionic (metal and nonmetal) c. Ozone, O3 covalent d. Methanol, CH4O covalent (C and O are nonmetals and H is a metal) *a metal bonded with a nonmetal forms an ionic bond; also, when an element is bonded to itself it forms a covalent bond 2
What are the rules for naming a simple covalent compound? Answers A covalent compound is usually composed of two or more nonmetal elements. It is just like an ionic compound except that the element further down and to the left on the periodic table is listed first and is named with the element name. The elements in Na2O are a metal and a nonmetal, which form ionic bonds. Because sodium is a metal and we recognize the formula for the phosphate ion (see Table 3.1 Some Polyatomic Ions), we know that this compound is ionic.