The political era that took place between 1840-1930 was characterized by five points, which was the authority was coming from politicians and the law, a broad social service function, decentralized organization, an intimate relationship with the community, and the extensive use of foot patrol. 
The reform era of policing America was heavily influenced by the Progressive political movement which emphasized government reform and regulation of society to improve the living conditions of citizens. The negative aspects of the Reform Era was the emphasis on defining policing as enforcing the law with insufficient regard for the impact of police methodology on the citizenry.
The origins of American policing are closely related the Anglo-Saxon model which gave a more communal responsibility. The four Eras’ of American policing that will be focused on are The Political, Professional, Community Policing, and Homeland Security. The Political era lasted from 1830-1900. 
“a systemic approach to policingwith the paradigm of instilling and fostering a sense of community, within a geographical neighborhood, to improve the quality of life.”. Term. Problem-oriented policing. Definition. involves a four-step approach toaddressing specific crimes in the community. These steps include scanning communities to identify problems, analyzing the nature and extent of the problem, respondingto the problem, and assessing whether or not the problem is properly addressed. (1919–1933), which criminalized the sale, transport, and manufacturing of alcohol. It was during Prohibition that police officers sometimestook advantage of “favors” offered in exchange for them looking the other way while alcohol was served.
While the Political Era of policing emphasized close relationships and contact between police and the communities they served on foot patrol with very little oversight from command structure, the Reform era put police officers in patrol cars, with much closer supervision by their chain of command. The negative aspects of the Reform Era was the emphasis on defining policing as enforcing the law with insufficient regard for the impact of police methodology on the citizenry.
There are three specific periods of policing that the 19th and 20th centuries embraced: political era, reform era, and community era. During the political era (1840s-1930s) the functions of law enforcement were controlled by the local politicians. The third era of law enforcement is the community era (1980s-present). This era is characterized by the authority coming from the support of the community, law, and professionalism. A broad range of services provided a better hold on crime control in the community
Political Era & Policing. ~ During this era, police were used by politicians to maintain their power. ~ Police officers were considered a political reward. ~ They were driven by a community's interests in improving their quality of life, political influence was the reason they were so involved in their neighborhood. The belief that police officers should do more then merrily arrest offenders, and that they should actively seek to prevent crime by saving potential or actual offenders, were important themes in police reform. ~ In other words what this means is, The progressive era came along to cure all of Americas ills.
The downside to the political era was that the police got its authority from the politics and the law, the close tie with politics posed as a problem. In New York, for example, the first chief of police could not dismiss officers under his command. The tenure of the chief was limited to one year. 
3rd and final era. which is just beginning-is the era of community problem solving. The problem-solving approach to police work stresses the service role of police officers and envisions a partnership between police agencies and their communities. A style of policing marked by a strict concern with enforcing the presice letter of the law. Legalistic departments may take a hands-off approach to otherwise disruptive or problematic forms of behavior that are not violations of the criminal law. Example, someone going 56 MPH on a 55, gets ticketed.