Anywhere from $60k-100k(after tax)here is considered good/well off. $35k-50k here is just about enough to have a 1-2 kids and a somewhat comfortable life($160k house, cars under $20k etc). A fairly nice house in the suburbs will run from $200k-450k. Someone making 80k a year, but has a 3k a month mortgage, 2k student loan payment a month, credit card debt, etc will have a harder time than someone making 40k a year with no debt. I make 50k a year and I live very very comfortable because I have absolutely no debt.
Can you tell me the range budgeted for this position?” (Good answer) 3. Q: “What Salary Range Would You Require to Take This Job?” A: #1 - “From the research that I have done, it appears to be in the $60–$70,000 range. I would be expecting at least that and a 15 to 20 percent increase. (This is not a good answer) A: #2 - “I’m sure whatever you offer will be a fair amount for a person with my qualifications. Salary is not the most important factor to me.
A six-figure salary (US$) means one thing in New York City and something very different in Bangkok. Assuming you have a salary of US$100,000 in each location, the difference comes down to taxes, cost of living, and the real estate market. We calculated your REAL income based on taxes and cost of living (using the Economist's informal Big Mac Index).
Report Abuse. A good salary is the one that beats your last one, or is equal with more future. In an expensive state, I would say $45,000 plus. In a Southern state, $30,000 is enough to live on semi-comfortably without children. As a young person, you make less, as a very old person you make less, salaries are age dependent too. Someone making 80k a year, but has a 3k a month mortgage, 2k student loan payment a month, credit card debt, etc will have a harder time than someone making 40k a year with no debt. I make 50k a year and I live very very comfortable because I have absolutely no debt.
If not, you probably can't stonewall on the issue, and it's seemingly best to try and shoot a little high. No matter what salary you end up asking for, a growing number of employers won't be giving it to you if your credit report has notable problems or is in general disrepair. This is a topic that's spurred a lot of discussion. The post that started it said that saying what you want was a no-win game when it came to interviews, ending with you either leaving money on the table or nixing your chances at the job by shooting high.
1 If you're not looking to move, you can also compare salaries in a given zip code. 2  Good for: Seeing if your salary estimates are anywhere near realistic, or finding alternative jobs in your market that pay just as much. This is a topic that's spurred a lot of discussion. The post that started it said that saying what you want was a no-win game when it came to interviews, ending with you either leaving money on the table or nixing your chances at the job by shooting high.
This is basically the income you can do anything with. It's 50% of your income. That's a lot by any standard. So yes, INR 16 lacs for a 21 year old is very good given the above assumptions. But you must be aware that what you earn today may not be the same you earn tomorrow. If the economy is in bad shape and a lot of people are losing jobs, a 21 year old would be the first to take the fall. So don't waste your money
1 It's similar in other respects, too, but the killer tool is an RSS feed for searches you perform—perfect for keeping yourself up-to-date on job titles, salary ranges, and blue-sky thinking. 2  Good for: Complementing other salary searches, and adding onto your job-finding RSS feed. This is a topic that's spurred a lot of discussion. The post that started it said that saying what you want was a no-win game when it came to interviews, ending with you either leaving money on the table or nixing your chances at the job by shooting high.
Date Posted: Oct 25, 2011 #39. Yes, that is a good salary. I live in a boomtown in western Canada, which can charge outrageous amounts for rent and commodities. Even then, anyone making that kind of scratch can live comfortably. Same. My ideal salary needs to be enough to support a family of 3-4 on that salary alone and be reasonably close to being able to buy a house. --Hobbes-- said: I'd be lucky to find an apartment around here that costs $2k/month. $50k really doesn't go THAT far in my area. mariofreak91 said: I live in California...