A subscription to Amazon Prime costs $99 per year. You are charged annually, from the date you sign up to the same date next year. If you're looking to compare that to other per-month billing schemes, Amazon Prime's cost averages out to $8.25 per month. You can, however, get a 30-day free trial when you first sign up for Amazon Prime
Amazon testing $8 per month price for Prime streaming. By Julianne Pepitone @julpepitone. Amazon is testing a $7.99 per month pricing scheme for its Prime program -- the same exact cost as monthly streaming services from Netflix and Hulu. Amazon is testing a $7.99 per month pricing scheme for its Prime program, the same exact cost as the monthly streaming services from Netflix (NFLX) and Hulu. That's a pricier option than Amazon Prime's traditional $79 annual fe
A.: Amazon Prime is a paid service (Free 30-day trial, $99 per year) that gives Amazon shoppers a few distinct advantages. Members of Amazon Prime are eligible for: 1  Free two-day shipping on any eligible item without a minimum-order balance, and free same-day delivery (in 14 metro areas) on eligible orders more than $35. 1 (You can get $20 off your first order of $50 or more with the promo code TRYITNOW.). 2  Sharing the free shipping benefits (and other Prime benefits) with one other adult and up to four children as part of Amazon Household.
We take a look at Amazon Prime, Netflix, Hulu Plus and Vudu to check out the best online streaming deal based on selection, price and user friendliness. Amazon Prime ($79 per year). Amazon Prime offers access to over 10,000 instant videos, including NBC and CBS television shows. While users can watch unlimited material on Netflix, Amazon Prime and Hulu Plus, five or six videos will quickly add up to $20, more than any of the other packages cost per month. User Friendly: Vudu is not as clean looking as its older alternatives, Netflix and Hulu Plus, but it is more streamlined than Amazon Prime.
Netflix subscriptions currently cost $7.99 per month, but that price will rise by $1 or $2 for new members later this quarter. Existing members will keep their current price for a generous period of time. Assuming the $2 increase, Netflix will soon cost $119.88 per year. Amazon Prime membership costs $99 per year (or about $8.25 per month), but also includes unlimited, free two-day shipping on many items. You also get access to the company's growing selection of streaming TV shows and movies. Hulu Plus costs $7.99 per month or $95.88 per year. 
Netflix vs Amazon Prime Instant Video: price. The standard Netflix UK service is £5.99 per month or £6.99 if you want high definition streaming (where available); if you've already signed up as a customer that £1 price increase has been delayed until 2016. If you want Amazon Prime Instant Video but don't want the other benefits of a Prime membership, the price is a flat £5.99 per month. 1  Sign up for Amazon Prime Instant Video free trial!
Netflix charges a monthly fee of $7.99 per month, which comes out to $95.88 per year. Amazon Prime costs $99 per year, which comes out to about $8.25 per month. Forgetting the nice shipping benefits you get with Prime, you pay about the same. If both services had the same library of options, you could justify a Prime membership in an instant.
It's no secret that Amazon's main streaming video competitors are Netflix and Hulu Plus. Amazon is testing a $7.99 per month pricing scheme for its Prime program, the same exact cost as the monthly streaming services from Netflix (NFLX) and Hulu. That's a pricier option than Amazon Prime's traditional $79 annual fee. Amazon is testing a $7.99 per month pricing scheme for its Prime program -- the same exact cost as monthly streaming services from Netflix and Hulu
And on the video side, Prime is about the same price as access to Netflix or Hulu Plus ($96 per year for each), but whereas Netflix and Hulu Plus are recurring $8 monthly costs, the $99 Prime one-year subscription needs to be paid up front. 1 (You can get $20 off your first order of $50 or more with the promo code TRYITNOW.). 2  Sharing the free shipping benefits (and other Prime benefits) with one other adult and up to four children as part of Amazon Household.
However, there are two catches to this. The first is that Amazon Prime is a little more expensive than some comparable streaming services, such as Netflix and Hulu ($7.99 per month) for movies and TV shows, or Pandora One ($4.99 per month) and Deezer Premium ($7.99 per month) for music. You are charged annually, from the date you sign up to the same date next year. If you're looking to compare that to other per-month billing schemes, Amazon Prime's cost averages out to $8.25 per month.