An orchestra conductor during a performance. The definition of a conductor is a person who leads an orchestra, who is in charge of a train or streetcar or something that allows electricity to travel through it to complete a circuit. 1  An example of a conductor is a maestro who leads the Boston Orchestra. 
The resistance of a given conductor depends on the material it is made of, and on its dimensions. For a given material, the resistance is inversely proportional to the cross-sectional area; for example, a thick copper wire has lower resistance than an otherwise-identical thin copper wire. In metals such as copper or aluminum, the movable charged particles are electrons. Positive charges may also be mobile, such as the cationic electrolyte (s) of a battery, or the mobile protons of the proton conductor of a fuel cell.
Part of the Electronics glossary: An electrical conductor is a substance in which electrical charge carriers, usually electrons, move easily from atom to atom with the application of voltage. Conductivity, in general, is the capacity to transmit something, such as electricity or heat. A substance that does not conduct electricity is called an insulator or dielectric material. Common examples include most gases, porcelain, glass, plastic, and distilled water. A material that conducts fairly well, but not very well, is known as a resistor.
In physics and electrical engineering, a conductor is an object or type of material that allows the flow of electrical current in one or more directions. For people, a wire is an electrical conductor that can carry electricity along its length. In metals such as copper or aluminum, the movable charged particles are electrons. Positive charges may also be mobile, such as the cationic electrolyte (s) of a battery, or the mobile protons of the proton conductor of a fuel cell.
Medical Definition of CONDUCTOR. 1. a: a material or object that permits an electric current to flow easily b: a material capable of transmitting another form of energy (as heat or sound). 2. : a bodily part (as a nerve fiber) that transmits excitation. : one that conducts: as a: guide b: a collector of fares in a public conveyance c: the leader of a musical ensemble d (1) : a material or object that permits an electric current to flow easily — compare insulator, semiconductor (2) 
Conductor or conduction may refer to: In physics 1  : Electrical conductor, an object allowing the flow of electric charge. 2  Electrical conduction, the movement of charged particles through an electrical conductor. 3  Fast ion conductor, a solid-state electrical conductor which conducts due to the movement of ions. 1 Electrical conduction, the movement of charged particles through an electrical conductor. 2  Fast ion conductor, a solid-state electrical conductor which conducts due to the movement of ions. 3  Conduction (heat) , the transfer of thermal energy through matter.
The ampacity of a conductor, that is, the amount of current it can carry, is related to its electrical resistance: a lower-resistance conductor can carry a larger value of current. The resistance, in turn, is determined by the material the conductor is made from (as described above) and the conductor's size. In metals such as copper or aluminum, the movable charged particles are electrons. Positive charges may also be mobile, such as the cationic electrolyte (s) of a battery, or the mobile protons of the proton conductor of a fuel cell.
A conductor is someone who leads and guides an orchestra or a group of singers in order to perform a piece to the best of their abilities. Conductors work in theater or stage plays, film or TV scores, lead orchestras and choirs that are either amateurs or pros. 
Conductors and Insulators. In a conductor, electric current can flow freely, in an insulator it cannot. Metals such as copper typify conductors, while most non-metallic solids are said to be good insulators, having extremely high resistance to the flow of charge through them. Conductor implies that the outer electrons of the atoms are loosely bound and free to move through the material.