The Westing Game By Ellen Raskin Chapters 1-3Before you read the chapter: The protagonist in most novels features the main character or “good guy”. The protagonist of The Westing Game is thirteen-year-old Turtle Wexler, infamous for the kicks to the shins sheadministers to many of the people she meets. Extension Activities Storyboard A storyboard is a series of pictures that tell about an important event in a story. A storyboard can tell the story of only one scene – or the entire novel. Complete the storyboard below illustrating the events described in Chapters 1 - 3 of The Westing Game.
2. The tenants are summoned to the Westing House and paired up for the Westing Game, where the will is read and they are given $10,000 each as seed money. 3. Turtle sneaks into the Westing House and thinks she sees the body. 4. Several items go missing and several bombs go off. 9. Turtle announces that she has won the game because she realized that no one killed Sam Westing. He is Sandy MacSouthers, Barney Northup, and Julian R. Eastman. 10. Angela marries Denton Deere, and Turtle is rich since she inherited from Westing. For the most part everyone lives happily ever after
The Westing Game is a 1978 Newbery Medal winning novel by Ellen Raskin. It has been adapted into a movie, released under both the names The Westing Game and Get a Clue. 1 Judge J.J Ford is a judge and is partners with Sandy McSouthers. 2  Used to investigating crimes, her goal in the game is to find the past of every heir. 3  She is known for distrusting everyone. 4  She is grim and does not like partnering up because she is used to working alone.
I am not the burglar and I never murdered anybody, ever. (ch 22, p. 132). Since it is a mystery, this book has many important events. Here are the ten key events. 1  Otis Amber delivers invitations to the “heirs” of the Westing Fortune (and Sydelle, the mistake) that lead them to take apartments in Sunset Towers. 9. Turtle announces that she has won the game because she realized that no one killed Sam Westing. He is Sandy MacSouthers, Barney Northup, and Julian R. Eastman. 10. Angela marries Denton Deere, and Turtle is rich since she inherited from Westing. For the most part everyone lives happily ever after
The book centers on the adventures of Sam Westing's sixteen heirs after they are challenged by him to figure out the secret behind his death. 1 Judge J.J Ford is a judge and is partners with Sandy McSouthers. 2  Used to investigating crimes, her goal in the game is to find the past of every heir. 3  She is known for distrusting everyone. 4  She is grim and does not like partnering up because she is used to working alone.
Nearly all of the book's action takes place in two domestic settings: the new apartment building, Sunset Towers, and the neighboring Westing house. (The fact that they're in Wisconsin makes the important plot device of the snowstorm seem totally believable.) Most of the book is set in Sunset Towers. 
Split and merge into it. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. i think the main events in the Westing game are 1) Barney Northrup rents out apartments 2) heirs get put in pairs of two 3) had a meeting in the coffee shop about their clues. 4) a bomb went off in the coffee shop 5) another bomb went off in Shin Hoo's Restaurant. 6) the third bomb went off at Angela's party. 8) all of the heirs are called back to give there answers, but they were all wrong. 9) sandy McSoutherns dies in front of the heirs. 10) Turtle figures out that Mr. Westing is3 other people and wins the game.