The sternotomy is a surgical procedure that often precedes heart surgery, and gives direct access to the heart. It is an incision in the chest that begins at the top of the sternum, which is the bone right below the neck’s hollow, and that runs down the middle of the chest to the end of the sternum. There can be differences in the way a sternotomy is performed. A smaller or modified incision might be shorter in length and not progress the full way down the sternum. People can discuss with doctors what incision is most appropriate.
A sports bra may help women to minimize breast pull against a sternotomy incision. Anesthesia will be required during a sternotomy. Some heart and lung surgeries require a sternotomy. A sternotomy involves cutting through the sternum, the bone in the middle of the rib cage. There can be differences in the way a sternotomy is performed. A smaller or modified incision might be shorter in length and not progress the full way down the sternum. People can discuss with doctors what incision is most appropriate.
Mini Sternotomy vs. Full Sternotomy A. Afrasiabi MD, et al Mini Sternotomy versus Full Sternotomy for Aortic and Subaortic Valve Surgery Abbas Afrasiabi, MD; Morad Hashemzehi, MD Abstract Background-Mini sternotomy approach for aortic valve surgery is an alternative to median sternotomy to minimize surgical trauma. 
Primary median sternotomy technique. A skin incision is made with a scalpel that extends from the midpoint between the angle of Louis and the sternal notch to below the xiphoid process; following this, a diathermy incision is extended through the subcutaneous tissue down to the sternum. Redo sternotomy carries a 1-3% risk of right ventricular trauma, which is associated with a 50% mortality rate. If the patient has had a previous CABG, inadvertent trauma to a patent coronary graft may occur (ie, severing the LIMA graft or a saphenous vein graft to the LAD).
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Median sternotomy is a type of surgical procedure in which a vertical inline incision is made along the sternum, after which the sternum itself is divided, or cracked. Median sternotomy is often mistakenly referred to as open heart surgery; however, open heart involves incision of the pericardium, and many median sternotomy procedures do not require this. Open heart usually involves the use of a cardiopulmonary bypass, also known as a heart-lung machine.
median sternotomy, a chest surgery technique in which an incision is made from the suprasternal notch to below the xiphoid process. The sternum is then opened with a saw and a sternal retractor is inserted. Closure requires reunion of the sternum with stainless steel sutures. The procedure is used in coronary artery bypass and valve replacement operations. Compare anterolateral thoracotomy, posterolateral thoracotomy.
Indications for emergency repeat sternotomy. In cardiac surgery, a 5% risk exists of bleeding or tamponade following a first cardiac operation. If the patient is having, or at risk of having, a cardiac arrest secondary to these complications, an emergency repeat sternotomy should be performed. Redo sternotomy carries a 1-3% risk of right ventricular trauma, which is associated with a 50% mortality rate. If the patient has had a previous CABG, inadvertent trauma to a patent coronary graft may occur (ie, severing the LIMA graft or a saphenous vein graft to the LAD).
Although the median sternotomy is predominantly associated with cardiac surgery, it is a useful incision for a number of other operations. The incision also allows access to both pleural spaces, making it useful for some thoracic operations, retrosternal goiter access and esophagectomy. Redo sternotomy carries a 1-3% risk of right ventricular trauma, which is associated with a 50% mortality rate. If the patient has had a previous CABG, inadvertent trauma to a patent coronary graft may occur (ie, severing the LIMA graft or a saphenous vein graft to the LAD).
sternotomy. incision of the sternum as an approach for a thoracotomy. The incision may be median, through the midline, or transverse, most commonly as an extension of an intercostal thoracotomy incision, across the sternum and up the other side. 1  Facebook. or cadioplumonary bypass whereby the patient~s aortic or pulmonary valve is replaced by an implanted through a catheter (a narrow tube), which is inserted through the skin and into a large vein in the groin and then into the pulmonary artery. Percutaneous valves and mitral repair by Mena Report.