There are, of course, other styles of Middle Eastern music that are not used for dancing. For examples, it would be extremely offensive to do a dance performance using sacred Islamic music. This article focuses on the type of music most likely to be heard with dance performances. The word baladi is often used to refer to an improvised solo piece of instrumental music known as the tet baladi. Other terms that people use to refer to this are baladi taqsim or baladi progression. Today, this style of music is often played on an accordion or a violin. The term progression refers to the fact that the music opens with slow, introspective improvisation, then gradually builds in speed and intensity, finishing with a joyful climax. This clip contains the final 30 seconds of a tet baladi
Percussion instruments play a very important role in Middle Eastern music. The complex rhythms of this music are often played on many simple percussion instruments. The riq الرق (a type of tambourine) and finger cymbals add a higher rhythmic line to rhythm laid down with sticks, clappers, and other drums. Often, more traditional Middle Eastern music can last from one to three hours in length, building up to anxiously awaited, and much applauded climaxes, or tarab, derived from the Arabic term طرب tarraba.
The modern oud and the European lute both descend from a common ancestor via diverging paths. One instrument that has been suggested as ancestral is the Barbat. The oud is readily distinguished from the lute by its lack of frets and smaller neck. The Arabic: العود ‎ (al-ʿūd) literally denotes a thin piece of wood similar to the shape of a straw. It may refer to the wooden plectrum traditionally used for playing the oud, to the thin strips of wood used for the back, or to the wooden soundboard that distinguished it from similar instruments with skin-faced bodies.
The traditional Arabic ensemble or takht (literally bed in Arabic) consists of 4 main melodic instruments: oud, nay, qanun and violin, and one main percussion instrument (riq). Sometimes the riq is supplemented/substituted with the tabla or daff (frame drum). The use of Western equal tempered instruments in Arabic music is very widespread nowadays. These include the piano, electric piano, electric organ, synthesizer, accordion, guitar, electric guitar, electric (fretted) bass. Some of these instruments can be altered to produce quarter tones (see intonation in Arabic music).
Most popular of the stringed instruments is the oud, a pear-shaped lute that traditionally had four strings, although current instruments have up to six courses consisting of one or two strings each. Legend has it that the oud was invented by Lamech, the sixth grandson of Adam. Often, more traditional Middle Eastern music can last from one to three hours in length, building up to anxiously awaited, and much applauded climaxes, or tarab, derived from the Arabic term طرب tarraba.
BASICS. THEORY. ARTISTS. MAKERS. GALLERY. LINKS. The oud (or ud) is one of the most popular instruments in Middle Eastern music. Its name derives from the Arabic for 'wood', and this refers to the strips of wood used to make its rounded body. In Greece it is known as the outi and in Iran as the barbat. 
The oud is one of the most popular instruments in Arabic music. Its name derives from the Arabic for 'a thin strip of wood', and this refers to the strips of wood used to make its rounded body. The use of Western equal tempered instruments in Arabic music is very widespread nowadays. These include the piano, electric piano, electric organ, synthesizer, accordion, guitar, electric guitar, electric (fretted) bass. Some of these instruments can be altered to produce quarter tones (see intonation in Arabic music).
A typical andalous orchestra uses rabab (fiddle), oud (lute), kamenjah (violin-style instrument played vertically on the knee), qanun (zither), darbuka (metal or pottery goblet drums) and taarija (tambourine). 
The origin of the name oud (and its etymological cousin, lute) for the musical instrument is uncertain. The Arabic: العود ‎ (al-ʿūd) literally denotes a thin piece of wood similar to the shape of a straw. It may refer to the wooden plectrum traditionally used for playing the oud, to the thin strips of wood used for the back, or to the wooden soundboard that distinguished it from similar instruments with skin-faced bodies.