PubMed: Pulegone mediated hepatotoxicity: evidence for covalent binding of R(+)-[14C]pulegone to microsomal proteins in vitro. PubMed: Contribution of menthofuran to the hepatotoxicity of pulegone: assessment based on matched area under the curve and on matched time course. PubMed: Transformation of a monoterpene ketone, (R)-(+)-pulegone, a potent hepatotoxin, in Mucor piriformis. PubMed: Metabolism of (R)-(+)-pulegone and (R)-(+)-menthofuran by human liver cytochrome P-450s: evidence for formation of a furan epoxide.
Peppermint oil has a high concentration of natural pesticides, mainly pulegone (Found mainly in Mentha arvensis var. piperascens Cornmint, Field Mint, Japanese Mint and to a lesser extent-6,530 ppm in Mentha x piperita subsp. nothosubsp. piperita) and menthone. Peppermint (Mentha × piperita, also known as M. balsamea Willd. ) is a hybrid mint, a cross between watermint and spearmint. The plant, indigenous to Europe and the Middle East, is now widespread in cultivation in many regions of the world. It is found wild occasionally with its parent species.
Pulegone, para-menth-4(8)ene-3-one, is a compound which occurs naturally in plants of the family Labiatae and essential oils obtained therefrom. Included within this family of plants is the genus Mentha and the species piperita. Mentha piperita is commonly known as peppermint. 13. Method of claim 11, wherein the peppermint oil contains less than about 0.5% pulegone, an increased 1-menthone and menthol content, and is characterized by improved stability against menthofuran oxidation breakdown.
Pulegone is a naturally occurring organic compound obtained from the essential oils of a variety of plants such as Nepeta cataria (catnip), Mentha piperita, and pennyroyal. It is classified as a monoterpene. Pulegone is a clear colorless oily liquid and has a pleasant odor similar to pennyroyal, peppermint and camphor.
Pulegone is a natural constituent of various plants, including mint and other herbs, and of their essential oils. Pulegone was added to the Prop 65 list on April 18, 2014 as a chemical known to the state of California to cause cancer, and it became subject to enforcement actions a year later, on April 18, 2015. However, going “natural” can come at a cost: In addition to concerns about drawing consumer claims that the term is being used in a potentially deceptive manner, there are other hidden risks to manufacturers, distributors and resellers of “natural” products.
Pulegone is a ketonic monoterpene that is a naturally present constituent in numerous plant species, especially mints (e.g., peppermint and spearmint) and particularly concentrated in the essential oils derived from these plants. , another naturally occurring constituent in several plant species, as a chemical known to the state to cause cancer. The information provided in this document for pulegone is likely to also apply to beta-myrcene, and AHPA will provide updates upon receipt of additional information.
Where a consumer product contain s a listed chemical, and the source of the chemical is in part from a naturally occurring chemical in food and in part from other sources, “exposure” can only occur as to that portion of the chemical from other sources. , another naturally occurring constituent in several plant species, as a chemical known to the state to cause cancer. The information provided in this document for pulegone is likely to also apply to beta-myrcene, and AHPA will provide updates upon receipt of additional information.
Under above conditions, a final pulegone level of 0.34% was obtained, whereas the control (starting) oil had a pulegone level of 2.35%. This is a reduction of 86 percent. The resulting oil was also crystal clear as compared to the control which maintained a slight natural yellow off color even after steam distillation. 13. Method of claim 11, wherein the peppermint oil contains less than about 0.5% pulegone, an increased 1-menthone and menthol content, and is characterized by improved stability against menthofuran oxidation breakdown.
With the limitation that the concentration of pulegone should not exceed 1%, it has been concluded that Mentha Piperita (Peppermint) Oil, Mentha Piperita (Peppermint) Extract, Mentha Piperita (Peppermint) Leaves, Mentha Piperita (Peppermint) Water are safe as used in cosmetic formulations. Peppermint (Mentha × piperita, also known as M. balsamea Willd. ) is a hybrid mint, a cross between watermint and spearmint. The plant, indigenous to Europe and the Middle East, is now widespread in cultivation in many regions of the world. It is found wild occasionally with its parent species.
Patents. Crystal-clear peppermint oil maintaining its noble character and having a reduced pulegone content, enhanced menthone and menthol content, and improved stability against menthofuran oxidation breakdown is produced by a stereospecific method of reduction by hydrogenation of pulegone in situ using a saturated... 13. Method of claim 11, wherein the peppermint oil contains less than about 0.5% pulegone, an increased 1-menthone and menthol content, and is characterized by improved stability against menthofuran oxidation breakdown.