Though it can be less, considering deep cleaning also known as Scaling and Root Planing does not need to be done prior to LANAP. That would save you about $1000 and four hours of work. For a full mouth case it is around $6,000. We offer financing for about $100 a month. The health benefits are difficult to estimate though Aetna Medical and Columbia University did a study that showed a 16% reduction in health care related costs by having healthy gums. Or if you consider what it would cost to remove all your teeth and have dentures made it is about the same cost. Though you would keep your teeth. Then consider 40,000 for upper and lower fixed implant supported bridges.
Gum disease treatment costs may be as little as $500, or as much as $10,000, depending on the severity of the disease. The cost for a regular dental prophylaxis averages between $30 and $75, while the average cost for periodontal scaling and root planing is between $140 and $210. Periodontal maintenance costs after undergoing active therapy average $115. Active periodontal therapy  which usually consists of a locally administered antimicrobial agent delivered into the gum pockets  costs an average of $75 per tooth.
The cost of treatment for gum disease (periodontitis) varies quite considerably according to how severe the disease is. At the one end of the spectrum, all that may be required is a simple scale and polish ITEM 114 which will set you back $75- $150. 
Periopeak.com estimates the cost of a periodontal surgery per quadrant as being anywhere from $1,500 to $2,200, on average. This number however, does not take all of the factors into account. Save. Periodontal surgery is a costly procedure that is a result of having periodontal disease. Preventing periodontal disease is important in avoiding poor oral hygiene, and many complications in the future.
The length of your laser gum treatment will depend on how severe your periodontal disease is and the degree of treatment of gum disease you need. It can take one or more visits to the office for treatment and this is reflected in your periodontal disease treatment cost. Your dentist will discuss with you your treatment of gum disease, individual laser gum treatment plan and LANAP Laser Periodontal Surgery, along with periodontal disease treatment cost. LANAP Laser Periodontal Surgery is the latest in the treatment of gum disease. Our Laser Gum Dentist is pleased to be the the first office in the region to provide the Laser Periodontal Therapy™ laser gum treatment option for the treatment of gum disease (i.e. periodontitis, gingivitis).
The Cost of Gum Disease Treatment. The cost of gum disease treatment depends on several factors. For example, additional routine tooth cleaning or scaling and root planing procedures at the gingivitis stage may be required in order to help prevent the onset of gum disease. Periodontal maintenance costs after undergoing active therapy average $115. Active periodontal therapy  which usually consists of a locally administered antimicrobial agent delivered into the gum pockets  costs an average of $75 per tooth.
Laser Gum Contouring Costs. The cost of laser gum contouring varies greatly by patient, depending on the amount of gum that is treated. The cost can range anywhere from $300 to $3,000. If the gum line needs to be treated above just one tooth, your cost estimate would be at the lower end of the scale. 
Laser gum surgery costs about $5,000, depending on the severity of your gum condition. The cost is comparable to traditional flap surgery and should be covered under most dental insurance plans. 
How much is laser periodontal treatment? Each patient is different and the fee depends on the severity and extent of the periodontal disease. It varies significantly from about $400 for a severe single tooth to about $4,500 for the whole mouth or four quadrants of Laser periodontal treatment.
1 On average, periodontal surgery is going to cost anywhere from $500 to as much as $5,000. 2  As mentioned above, the price is going to greatly vary depending on the amount of work that needs to be done as well as the dentist that will perform the surgery. 1 According to an article on Suite101.com, it is shown that the price for periodontal surgery can cost anywhere from $3,000 to $5,000. 2  Peridontist-Dallas.com shows information regarding the surgery and they also provide the price for