noun. verb. The definition of a rupture is an instance where something bursts or suddenly breaks. 1  An example of a rupture is a situation where an artery has broken open suddenly. 2  An example of a rupture is when two countries stop having friendly relations. 
Achilles tendon rupture is when the achilles tendon breaks. The achilles is the most commonly injured tendon. Rupture can occur while performing actions requiring explosive acceleration, such as pushing off or jumping. The male to female ratio for Achilles tendon rupture varies between 7:1 and 4:1 across various studies.
Rupture of the Membranes. During pregnancy, your membranes break (rupture) when a hole or tear develops in the fluid-filled bag (amniotic sac) that surrounds and protects the fetus. Most women describe this by saying their water broke.. Your membranes can break by themselves (spontaneous rupture of the membranes), or they may be ruptured by the doctor or nurse-midwife to start or speed up labor (artificial rupture of the membranes). The spontaneous rupture of the membranes most often happens after active labor has started.
1 n, a tear or break in the continuity or configuration of an organ or body tissue, including instances when other tissue protrudes through the opening. See also hernia. 2 v, to cause a break or tear. Medtalk A tearing or disruption of a membrane or flattened tissue that was subjected to pressure. See FASIAR rupture, Partial rupture, Premature rupture of membranes, Traumatic disk rupture.
Rupture is a term and may refer to break or burst suddenly (esp. of a pipe, a vessel, or a bodily part such as an organ or membrane). 1  Abdominal hernia, formerly referred to as a rupture. 
rupture, n a tear or break in the continuity or configuration of an organ or body tissue, including those instances when other tissue protrudes through the opening. 2 v, to cause a break or tear. Medtalk A tearing or disruption of a membrane or flattened tissue that was subjected to pressure. See FASIAR rupture, Partial rupture, Premature rupture of membranes, Traumatic disk rupture.
Preterm premature rupture of membranes (PPROM) is ROM prior to 37 weeks' gestation. Spontaneous premature rupture of the membranes (SPROM) is ROM after or with the onset of labor. Prolonged ROM is any ROM that persists for more than 24 hours and prior to the onset of labor. Premature rupture of membranes (PROM) refers to a patient who is beyond 37 weeks' gestation and has presented with rupture of membranes (ROM)
Ruptured Tendon Overview. A tendon is the fibrous tissue that attaches muscle to bone in the human body. The forces applied to a tendon may be more than 5 times your body weight. In some rare instances, tendons can snap or rupture. 1 This tendon is located on the back portion of the foot just above the heel. 2  It is the site where the calf muscle attaches to the heel of the foot (the calcaneus bone). 3  This tendon is vital for pushing off with the foot. 4  The Achilles helps you stand on your tiptoes and push off when starting a foot race.