NHLBI says supplemental oxygen, along with bronchodilators and pulmonary rehabilitation, are common treatments of AAT deficiency. Your lungs have a very important job: absorb oxygen from the air and transfer it into your bloodstream, according to the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute (NHLBI). By Do More With Oxygen
Oxygen therapy is a treatment that provides you with extra oxygen, a gas that your body needs to work well. Normally, your lungs absorb oxygen from the air. However, some diseases and conditions can prevent you from getting enough oxygen. Oxygen therapy may help you function better and be more active. Your doctor will decide whether you need oxygen therapy based on the results of tests, such as an arterial blood gas test and a pulse oximetry test. These tests measure how much oxygen is in your blood. A low oxygen level is a sign that you need oxygen therapy.
Oxygen should be considered a drug with clear guidelines and indications for its use. Oxygen is used for short-term hospitalized patients and as long-term therapy in patients with chronic lung disease. Oxygen is costly therapy and hence a rational understanding regarding its use is required. 
Oxygen therapy refers to the administration of supplemental oxygen as part of managing illness. In healthy individuals, oxygen is absorbed from the air in adequate amounts, but certain diseases and conditions can prevent some people from absorbing enough oxygen. The delivery of oxygen in this way is referred to as transtracheal oxygen therapy. A person who receives transtracheal oxygen therapy must have a humidifier attached to the oxygen system to add moisture because the oxygen does not pass through the mouth or nose.
Oxygen therapy is prescribed for people who can’t get enough oxygen on their own. This is often because of a lung condition that prevents the lungs from absorbing oxygen, including: 1  COPD. 2  pneumonia. 3  asthma. 4  dysplasia or underdeveloped lungs in newborns. 5  heart failure. 6  cystic fibrosis. 7  sleep apnea. 8  lung disease. 
In some cases, patients whomay not require oxygen while awake may need extra Oxygen Therapy Patients with lung disease can have low levels of oxygen intheir bodies and some need to use extra (supplemental) oxygento bring their oxygen levels up to a healthier level. 
Oxygen therapy is the administration of oxygen as a medical intervention, which can be for a variety of purposes in both chronic and acute patient care. Oxygen is essential for cell metabolism, and in turn, tissue oxygenation is essential for all normal physiological functions. 
Why It Is Used. Your doctor will determine how much oxygen you need with a blood test called arterial blood gas and another test called oximetry. These tests measure the levels of oxygen in the blood. Long-term oxygen therapy is given to people with heart failure who have low levels of oxygen in their blood. It is sometimes used for people who have diseases that make it hard to breathe, such as heart failure. Oxygen therapy can make it easier to breathe. And it can reduce the heart 's workload. Some people need extra oxygen all the time.
If you develop one of these conditions, and your blood oxygen level falls too low, your doctor may prescribe supplemental oxygen. Supplemental oxygen, especially portable oxygen solutions, helps those with chronic lung diseases to enjoy life to the fullest. By Do More With Oxygen. Your lungs have a very important job: absorb oxygen from the air and transfer it into your bloodstream, according to the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute (NHLBI).
Some diseases and conditions that may require short-term oxygen therapy are: 1  Severe pneumonia. 2  Pneumonia is an infection in one or both of the lungs. 3  If severe, the infection causes your lungs' air sacs to become very inflamed. 4  This prevents the air sacs from moving enough oxygen into your blood. 5  Severe asthma attack. Your doctor may recommend oxygen therapy if you have a low blood oxygen level. Normally, your lungs absorb oxygen from the air and transfer it into your bloodstream. Some acute (short-term) and chronic (ongoing) diseases and conditions can prevent you from getting enough oxygen.