Kentucky. $7.25 per hour, with an automatic increase should the federal minimum wage rise. Overtime pay is required for employees working over 40 hours in a week, and also for any employees who work 7 days in a single work week (overtime will apply on 7th day). $9.15. Should the federal minimum wage be increased to match or exceed that of the state, Connecticut's minimum wage automatically increases by .5% above the federal wage. Overtime pay is required for hours worked over 40 in a week.
The following chart lists the state-set minimum wage rates for each U.S. State and territory. In any state with a minimum wage of lower then the current Federal Minimum Wage of $7.25/hr, the Federal Minimum Wage will take precedent.
The Federal Minimum Wage is applicable nationwide, and overrides any state laws that provide a lower minimum wage rate to ensure that the local minimum wage in all states is at least $7.25 per hour. The Federal Minimum Wage was last updated in 2009. The current Federal Minimum Wage is $7.25 per hour. If the state minimum wage in your state is higher, you are entitled to be paid the higher minimum wage rate.
Minimum Wage. If an employee is covered by federal and Colorado state minimum wage laws, then the employer must pay the higher minimum wage. Federal minimum wage is currently $7.25 per hour, which is lower than the 2015 Colorado state minimum wage of $8.23. Therefore, based upon current information, covered employers in Colorado will have to pay their employees the higher value of $8.23 per hour under Colorado law beginning January 1, 2015. If an employee is covered by federal and Colorado state minimum wage laws, then the employer must pay the higher minimum wage for tipped employees. Federal tipped minimum wage is currently $2.13 per hour, which is lower than the 2015 Colorado tipped minimum wage of $5.21 per hour.
Minnesota establishes 2 minimum wage rates lower than the federal minimum. For employers with annual receipts of $625,000 or more, the minimum wage is $8.00 an hour. For those with receipts of less than that amount, the minimum wage is $6.50 per hour. $9.15. Should the federal minimum wage be increased to match or exceed that of the state, Connecticut's minimum wage automatically increases by .5% above the federal wage. Overtime pay is required for hours worked over 40 in a week.
If you have a job that pays the federal minimum wage, an hour of your work is worth $7.25, before taxes. Activists and lawmakers from around the country say this amount and slightly higher state-based rates don't offer workers enough to pay for life's basics. The number of hourly workers who were making the federal minimum wage in 2013, according to Pew. About 50.4 percent of these workers were ages 16 to 24, and just under a quarter were teenagers. About 64 percent of them worked part time.
$7.25. The Federal Minimum Wage of $7.25 per hour is the minimum hourly pay any non-exempt worker in the United States can be paid for his work. The current Federal Minimum Wage is $7.25 per hour. If the state minimum wage in your state is higher, you are entitled to be paid the higher minimum wage rate.
4 The Maine minimum wage is automatically replaced with the Federal minimum wage rate if it is higher than the State minimum with the exception that any such increase is limited to no more than $1.00 per hour above the current legislated State rate. 1 The Georgia state minimum wage is $5.15. 2  Employees covered under the federal Fair Labor Standards Act are subject to the federal minimum wage of $7.25, but those not covered under the FLSA may be paid the state minimum wage of $5.15.