A wet room offers the chance for under floor heating to be installed as-well as or in place of a radiator. The cost of under floor heating in significantly more than that of a radiator and can cost anywhere from £99 to well over £1000 for a bespoke system. Having a wet room allows much more space and is not restricted in design or access in the way of a regular bathroom; this is particularly beneficial for the elderly and those that are disabled.
So there you have it. The extra cost of the items themselves will run to £500 or more for a fit-and-forget wetroom, and the cost of installation is likely to start at around £3000, or to put it another way, £500 more than if you forewent the wetroom and chose a shower tray instead. It is difficult to put a cost on this as every room will be different, depending on the size, the existing plumbing work and the products chosen. A safe estimate would be anywhere upwards of around £3,000. It might be easier to think in terms of the EXTRA cost over and above a standard shower installation.
1 A wet room is super-stylish and perfect for creating a contemporary look. 2  As a second bathroom, a wet room can easily increase the value of your home. 3  Great for small bathrooms-removing the bath creates loads more space. 4  Wet rooms are, in general, easier to clean. Advantages of a wet room. 1  A wet room is super-stylish and perfect for creating a contemporary look. 2  As a second bathroom, a wet room can easily increase the value of your home. 3  Great for small bathrooms-removing the bath creates loads more space. 4  Wet rooms are, in general, easier to clean. 5  If it's done properly, your floor (the bit under the ..
If a wet room isn't for you, have a look at our shower room ideas. Disadvantages of a wet room. 1  In small bathrooms, watch out for wet towels and loo roll caused by spray from the shower. 2  You'll need a professional fitter to waterproof the room-if it's not done properly leaking water can cause damage. Advantages of a wet room. 1  A wet room is super-stylish and perfect for creating a contemporary look. 2  As a second bathroom, a wet room can easily increase the value of your home. 3  Great for small bathrooms-removing the bath creates loads more space. 4  Wet rooms are, in general, easier to clean. 5  If it's done properly, your floor (the bit under the ..
DIY wet rooms. Wet room costs can be kept as low as possible should you opt for the ‘Do It Yourself’ option. A DIY wet room will require that you are competent and have a bit of know how in this area. Wet room costs are likely to be dramatically increased if a badly put together room needs a professional to put right any mistakes. Having a wet room allows much more space and is not restricted in design or access in the way of a regular bathroom; this is particularly beneficial for the elderly and those that are disabled.
Your new Wetroom-the ultimate in style. Wet rooms are the ideal solution for large and small bathrooms alike. Wet rooms are much more versatile than a shower cubicle or enclosure allowing the showering area to blend naturally with the rest of the room.
Wet rooms can cost as little or as much as you want. A basic electric shower starts at £50.00, and you can pay anything up to £2000.00 for something with more sprays, nozzles, coloured lights, radio etc, than you know what to do with! Where the wet room is sited will have a bearing on cost. For instance if you're siting a wet room of such relatively small dimensions on the ground floor you could have an issue with drainage. Basically you'd need the water to be drained mechanically, by an electric pump.
It can vary considerably. For instance, a wet room drain can cost as little as £105 (including vat) for a basic Square Central Drain with Grate however The cost of a 1200mm wall mounted drain is £ 1225 (including Vat). The vast options on drains can be found on our wet room drain page. Another option available, is a DIY Wet Room Kit. At the lower end of the cost scale there is a DIY Unislope 4K Kit which cost £755 (including VAT) and a Glassline System which includes a Glass Panel with a one metre drain for £3,600 (including VAT)
The cost of installing a wet room is usually between £5,000 and £10,000. If you are paying a company to tank and install the wet room, including floor-to-ceiling tiles, suite and shower, expect to pay more. Advantages of a wet room. 1  A wet room is super-stylish and perfect for creating a contemporary look. 2  As a second bathroom, a wet room can easily increase the value of your home. 3  Great for small bathrooms-removing the bath creates loads more space. 4  Wet rooms are, in general, easier to clean. 5  If it's done properly, your floor (the bit under the ..