As far as the Australian seasons go, there are more rainy days in autumn in Sydney — an average of a little over 12 days each in the months of March, April and May — and between seven and eight the rest of the year. The rainfall is generally light — from 2.8 inches per month in spring to 5.3 inches in autumn. 
There are four seasons across most of the country and a wet and dry season in our tropical north. Summer in Australia, from December to February, is a great time to get outdoors. Swim Sydney’s beaches or hike Tasmania’s Overland Track. March to May heralds Australia’s autumn, a season of fiery foliage in Canberra and the Formula 1 Grand Prix in Melbourne.
Queensland climate: when to go to Queensland. in Australia 4,333 Views. The climate of Queensland is sub-tropical humid climate with two seasons, a rainy and humid season in summer (October to May) and a relatively dry season between June and October. Author NASA, by MISR. The temperature of the sea along the coast of Queensland is great for swimming in the sea during all months of the year. It varies between 21 ° C in July and August and 26 ° C in the summer months (January, February and March).
The dry season lasts about six months, usually between April and October. Temperatures are lower and the skies are generally clearer during the dry. The average temperature is around 20 degrees Celsius. The 'build up' is the humid time of year between the wet and dry seasons. Australian weather and seasons – a variety of climates. Australia is a continent that experiences a variety of climates due to its size. The temperature can range from below zero in the Snowy Mountains in southern Australia to extreme heat in the Kimberley region in the north-west of the continent.
In the Australian tropics the wet season, called the monsoon season, lasts about six months, between November and March. It is hotter than the dry season, with temperatures between 30 and 50 degrees Celsius. This is because of the high humidity during the wet, which is caused by large amounts of water in the air. Australian weather and seasons – a variety of climates. Australia is a continent that experiences a variety of climates due to its size. The temperature can range from below zero in the Snowy Mountains in southern Australia to extreme heat in the Kimberley region in the north-west of the continent.
The rainy season, or monsoon season, is the time of year when most of a region's average annual rainfall occurs. It usually lasts one or more months. The term  green season  is also sometimes used as a euphemism by tourist authorities. Areas with wet seasons are dispersed across portions of the tropics and subtropics. Some areas with pronounced rainy seasons will see a break in rainfall mid-season, when the intertropical convergence zone or monsoon trough moves to higher latitudes in the middle of the warm season.
Queensland's rainy season varies, depending on the region. The southern two-thirds of the state receives the most rainfall in summer, which is December through to February. The northern third has a longer wet season, extending from about October through to March. 