The salvage edge is the long side of the fabric that usually is frayed or has the printing information on it. It is almost always discarded or hidden in the final product. The selvage edge can refer to either the unfinished edges of woven fabric, or the uncut, tightly-woven right and left edges on fabric as it leaves a loom. In the latter case, the fabric does not fray because the weft threads double back on themselves, keeping the fabric from unraveling. add a comment. +1 vote!
Salvage Materials. We Offer LEED-eco-friendly solutions! We have an ever changing inventory of salvage materials which are remnants from various projects. We usually have pipe, tubing, gates, chain link, and more on hand. New, used, and odd sizes available.
BHG: Many people naturally assume that if you use salvaged landscaping materials, you have to have flea market style -- but that's not the case, right? SW: Many people assume that you can only get salvage at a flea market, but there are so many places you can find materials. SW: The biggest thing for me is, you are going to get your own style if you use salvaged landscaping materials. Anyone can walk into a store and pick up things that are mass-produced -- but they look like everybody else.
The noun SALVAGE has 3 senses: 1. property or goods saved from damage or destruction. 2. the act of saving goods or property that were in danger of damage or destruction. 3. the act of rescuing a ship or its crew or its cargo from a shipwreck or a fire. Familiarity information: SALVAGE used as a noun is uncommon. • SALVAGE (verb). The verb SALVAGE has 2 senses: 1. save from ruin, destruction, or harm. 2. collect discarded or refused material. Familiarity information: SALVAGE used as a verb is rare. 
Fortunately, if you use salvaged landscaping materials you can dress up a yard and lighten the load on your pocketbook, too. Sue Whitney, owner of Junkmarket and editor-in-chief of Decorating Junkmarket Style (junkmarketstyle.com), shows you how. SW: The biggest thing for me is, you are going to get your own style if you use salvaged landscaping materials. Anyone can walk into a store and pick up things that are mass-produced -- but they look like everybody else.
There are many benefits to using salvaged material versus using what is available in today's new flooring market. New hardwood flooring is shipped on pallets, and so the length of each piece of flooring is much shorter than salvaged material, which was moved by hand. A typical bundle of McGee’s salvaged Eastern Hardrock Maple gymnasium flooring has birds-eye or fiddle-back markings in roughly 1 out of every 5 pieces. These character-filled pieces are usually separated out of new material and then sold for twice the price.
We have thousands of square feet of vintage and modern architectural salvage materials and salvaged building materials on hand and in stock in our Luling and Gonzales, Texas warehouses. 
Nearby Terms. 1  sales-volume dr... 2  salient. 3  salmonella. 4  salmonellosis. 5  salt. 6  salvage. 7  salvage charges. 8  salvage corps. 9  salvage materia... 10  salvage propert... 11  salvage value. 12  sample. 13  sample account. 14  sample selectio... 15  sample standard... 16  sample survey. 17  sampling. 
salvage. 1. Property that has some value in excess of its basic material content but is in such condition that it has no reasonable prospect of use for any purpose as a unit and its repair or rehabilitation for use as a unit is clearly impractical. salvage. 1. the recovery of a ship or its contents or cargo after damage or sinking. 2. the material recovered and the compensation to those who recover it. 3. the rescue and use of any found or discarded material.