Depending on the location, different glial cell types make myelin in a different manner. Schwann cells make myelin in the peripheral nervous system (PNS: nerves) and oligodendrocytes in the central nervous system (CNS: brain and spinal cord). In the PNS, one Schwann cell forms a single myelin sheath (Figure 1A). The length of the myelin sheath along the axon is approximately 1 mm in the PNS. Between two adjacent myelin segments, there are approximately 1-μm-long gaps called nodes of Ranvier (Figure 1A and E). At the nodes, the axon is exposed to the extracellular space.
Each neuron is made up of a cell body and an axon (the extension of the cell body that carries messages). Most of the axons in the central nervous system are wrapped in myelin, a substance rich in lipids (fatty substances) and proteins. CNS myelin is produced by special cells called oligodendrocytes. PNS myelin is produced by Schwann cells. The two types of myelin are chemically different, but they both perform the same function — to promote efficient transmission of a nerve impulse along the axon.
Myelin Function. By Sally Robertson, BSc. The myelin sheath is a protective covering that surrounds fibres called axons, the long thin projections that extend from the main body of a nerve cell or neuron. This sheath is composed of protein and lipids. Damaged myelin. Multiple sclerosis is an autoimmune condition where the body’s own immune cells attack this myelin sheath. T cells strip the myelin from the nerve fibers it protects, meaning the fibers are left exposed and uninsulated.
T cells from the body's own immune system attack and destroy the myelin sheath Click to view larger image. In multiple sclerosis, T cells from the body's own immune system attack and destroy the myelin sheath, leaving the nerve cell fibers unprotected. In multiple sclerosis (MS), the body's immune system T cells attack the myelin sheath that protects the nerve fibers. The T cells either partially or completely strip the myelin off the fibers, leaving the nerves unprotected and uninsulated.
The myelin sheath is a layer of fat and protein that covers the axon of a neuron, or nerve cell. The axon, which is a long, thin projection, is designed to carry electrical signals from a neuron to other cells. 
Myelin is a fatty white substance that surrounds the axon dielectric (electrically insulating) material that forms a layer, the myelin sheath, usually around only the axon of a neuron. It is essential for the proper functioning of the nervous system. It is an outgrowth of a type of glial cell. The production of the myelin sheath is called myelination. In humans, myelination begins in the 14th week of fetal development, although little myelin exists in the brain at the time of birth.
1 A long, thin axon. 2  The axon is covered by a myelin sheath. 3  The axon passes information to the next neuron or other cell in the body. 4  A myelin sheath. 5  The axons have a protective covering called myelin. 6  Without myelin, the brain and spinal cord can't communicate with each other or with the nerves in the rest of the body. 1 Dendrites. 2  The dendrites receive signals from other neurons. 3  A long, thin axon. 4  The axon is covered by a myelin sheath. 5  The axon passes information to the next neuron or other cell in the body. 6  A myelin sheath. 7
The myelin sheath is a covering of the neuron (nerve cell) made by schwann cells wrapping themselves around the neuron down the length of the axon. The main purpose of the myelin sheath is to speed up the conduction velocity of nerve impulses. While there is an electrical charge involved in signals along nerves, it's not the same as a current along a wire. Instead, small channels in the membrane of the neruon open up, and ions flood through.