The given location map shows that Egypt is located in the Northern part of Africa continent. However, Egypt map also shows that Egypt has the region in north-eastern part i.e. Sinai Peninsula-it forms a land bridge with in south west Asia. Likewise, Egypt is a transcontinental country and also the comparatively more powerful region along with geostrategic location; all these benefits Egypt has because of the Mediterranean Sea and the man-made Suez Canal
LOCATION AND SIZE. The Arab Republic of Egypt is located in North Africa, bordering on the Mediterranean Sea to the north, Libya to the west, the Gaza Strip to the east, and Sudan to the south. 
Egypt, known officially as the Arab Republic of Egypt, is located in North Africa and Southwest Asia. The majority of the country is located in northeastern Africa, but its Sinai Peninsula extends out into Southwest Asia, connecting the two continents. Egypt is considered part of the Middle East as well as the Arab world, both culturally and politically. The country of Egypt is in the Africa continent and the latitude and longitude for the country are 28.8013° N, 31.1711° E. The neighboring countries of Egypt are: Maritime Boundaries :
Report Abuse. Egypt, officially the Arab Republic of Egypt, is a Middle Eastern country in North Africa. Egypt is geographically situated in Africa, with the Sinai Peninsula, east of the Suez Canal, connecting as a land bridge to Asia. Mantra · 9 years ago. Thumbs up. 
Egypt is not a continent, however if you are asking which content Egypt is on, it's at the northern part of Africa. Edit. Share to: 1  Explore the Asian Continent Through Travel in India India is a geographically and culturally diverse country on the Asian continent. Ancient Egypt was located in North Africa, along the top part of  the Nile River (NILE DELTA) in the present day country of Egypt.
Egypt's location at the edges of Africa, Europe, and Asia have been a significant part of the nation's long history, and have made it an important world power. Egypt is considered part of the Middle East as well as the Arab world, both culturally and politically. The country of Egypt is in the Africa continent and the latitude and longitude for the country are 28.8013° N, 31.1711° E. The neighboring countries of Egypt are: Maritime Boundaries :
Egypt is found at the northeast corner of the continent of AFRICA, but the Suez Canal, which runs north to south inside of Egypt forms the border between Africa and Asia. Ther … efore, the Sinai Peninsula, which is on the east bank of the Suez Canal is in ASIA, specifically, southwest Asia. Ancient Egypt was located in North Africa, along the top part of  the Nile River (NILE DELTA) in the present day country of Egypt.
With over 89 million inhabitants, Egypt is the most populous country in North Africa and the Arab World, the third-most populous in Africa (after Nigeria and Ethiopia), and the fifteenth-most populous in the world. Egypt has one of the longest histories of any modern country, arising in the tenth millennium BC as one of the world's first nation states.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Egypt is located at the northeast of the African continent, i.e. the eastern Mediterranean, between Libya and the Gaza strip. The Sinai peninsula is also Egyptian territory. Though Egypt lies in North Africa, it is not considered part of the Maghreb (it is different in a.o. language from Morocco, Algeria etc.). The country is considered part of the Middle East. Ethnically speaking, the three major population groups are Arab, Bedouin and Nubian. 
Egypt is not a continent. It is a country that is mostly on the  continent of Africa but has a small portion in Asia. 3 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: Prioktan 918. 730,487 Contributions. My major at university concerned the history of the Islamic World with a particular emphasis on Middle Eastern History. Ancient Egypt was located in North Africa, along the top part of  the Nile River (NILE DELTA) in the present day country of Egypt.