Corojo was used extensively as a wrapper for many years on Cuban cigars, with the tobacco's spicy punch becoming a commonly associated trademark of the country's tobacco products. Today, both hybrid and pure strains of Corojo are used in the production of cigars. Most of the pure Corojo leaf is currently grown in Honduras ' Jamastran Valley, while the hybrid varieties are more widely grown and used.
You are right about the Punch Rare Corojo though, its not a real Corojo they just pick sumatra wrapper with a reddish hue. The origin of Corojo is in pre-Castro Cuba and began with seeds planted in Vuelta Abajo, Cuba at a farm named Corojo by Daniel Rodriguez. From what I am reading it used to be a breed of tobacco popular in cuba but grew out of favor because it is more prone to disease. Lately it has been bred and grown outside of cuba to resist disease. It has a reddish wrapper. The only one I have tried is the punch rare corojo, and I loved it.
Between the mid-1940s and 1997, Corojo tobacco was the only tobacco used for wrapper in Cuba. Corojo tobacco was destined to become the best wrapper tobacco in the world because it was perfect for wrapper: it was thin and yet supple and it had exceptional flavor characteristics. First, Corojo tobacco became susceptible to a couple of different tobacco diseases, most notably blue mold. Second, the embargo would put an end to the unrestricted flow of Corojo tobacco into the U.S. and cigar manufacturers would eventually begin using greater quantities of other tobaccos.
Corojo is a type of tobacco, primarily used in the making of wrappers for cigars. The variety was originally grown in the Vuelta Abajo region of Cuba but is today grown exclusively in the Jamastran valley of Honduras and in the United States in Western Kentucky. Black Patch Cigar Co. Founder Eric McAnallen is having the Kentucky propagated Corojo, Kenbano(TM) seed planted for the 2011/2012 Dominican harvest after successfully growing this tobacco varietal in Western Kentucky since 2007. Today, both hybrid and pure strains of Corojo are used in the production of cigars. Most of the pure Corojo leaf is currently grown in Honduras ' Jamastran Valley, while the hybrid varieties are more widely grown and used.
- corojo is a type of tobacco, primarily used in the making of wrappers for cigars. the variety was originally grown in the vuelta abajo region of cuba but. - corojo label is a brand of handmade premium cigar owned by cigar.com, inc.. the development of this proprietary brand was begun in 2004 by the in-house. - brand consists of two ranges, the cuban diplomat and the cuban diplomat corojo rosado. this range consists of five vitolas and is essentially the filler.
Definition of COROJO. variant of corozo. ADVERTISEMENT. This word doesn't usually appear in our free dictionary, but the definition from our premium Unabridged Dictionary is offered here on a limited basis. Note that some information is displayed differently in the Unabridged.
- article: corojo corojo is a type of tobacco used primarily in the making of cigars, originally grown in the vuelta abajo region of cuba. corojo was originally. - acrocomia crispa (cuban belly palm, corojo palm), a palm species which is endemic to cuba. - corojo label is a brand of handmade premium cigar owned by cigar.com, inc.. the development of this proprietary brand was begun in 2004 by the in-house. - brand consists of two ranges, the cuban diplomat and the cuban diplomat corojo rosado. this range consists of five vitolas and is essentially the filler.
1 Costa Rican-I find this has a milder and earthier flavor than Corojo grown in other regions. 2  Try the Alec Bradley Trilogy Authentic Corojo for a good example of this leaf. 3  Corojo '99 - developed in Cuba for wrapper leaf in 1999, but also widely planted in Ecuador and elsewhere. This is the probably the trendiest wrapper right now. It is of course also one of the wrappers they use in Cuba (Corojo '99 variety). Original Corojo, in fact, was derived from the Criollo seed by natural selection, and this ancient seed is the genetic base seed for the Corojo ‘99 hybrid. A lot of cigar makers have been trying to emulate the rustic taste of a Cuban cigar for years, and this is the leaf they've been using
Mike said, 'We are the only Corojo wrapper on the market that is PROCIGAR certified and are proud of the perfectly balanced, affordable cigar we are able to produce.'. The origin of Corojo is in pre-Castro Cuba and began with seeds planted in Vuelta Abajo, Cuba at a farm named Corojo by Daniel Rodriguez. From what I am reading it used to be a breed of tobacco popular in cuba but grew out of favor because it is more prone to disease. Lately it has been bred and grown outside of cuba to resist disease. It has a reddish wrapper. The only one I have tried is the punch rare corojo, and I loved it.