Colorful clownfish swim among an array of sea anemones. Anemones appear in an enchanting variety of shapes and colors, but these simple invertebrates are essentially tubelike animals. One end of an anemone’s body is attached to or dug into the seafloor, while the other hosts a mouth surrounded by tentacles.
Sea anemones are a group of water-dwelling, predatory animals of the order Actiniaria. They are named for the anemone, a terrestrial flower. Sea anemones are classified in the phylum Cnidaria, class Anthozoa, subclass Hexacorallia. A sea anemone is a sessile polyp attached at the bottom to the surface beneath it by an adhesive foot, called a basal disc, with a column-shaped body ending in an oral disc.
As cnidarians, sea anemones are related to corals, jellyfish, tube-dwelling anemones, and Hydra. A sea anemone is a sessile polyp attached at the bottom to the surface beneath it by an adhesive foot, called a basal disc, with a column-shaped body ending in an oral disc.
There are more than 1,000 sea anemone species found throughout the world’s oceans at various depths, although the largest and most varied occur in coastal tropical waters. They run the full spectrum of colors and can be as small as half an inch (1.25 centimeters) or as large as 6 feet (1.8 meters) across. Some anemones, like their coral cousins, establish symbiotic relationships with green algae. In exchange for providing the algae safe harbor and exposure to sunlight, the anemone receives oxygen and sugar, the bi-products of the algae's photosynthesis.
Lurking in the deep sea is a marine creature thought to be one of the world's largest sea anemones. But new research suggests that the monster, which has tentacles measuring more than 6 feet (2 meters) long, isn't an anemone but rather the first known organism in a new order of animals. 
The newly named Relicanthidae sea creature, which lives near hydrothermal vents, was previously thought to be a giant sea anemone (order Actiniaria). New research places this animal in a new order—a classification equal to Carnivora in mammals or Crocodilia in reptiles. Credit: ©NERC CHESSO project View full size image. Lurking in the deep sea is a marine creature thought to be one of the world's largest sea anemones. But the animal, which has tentacles measuring more than 6 feet (2 meters) long, isn't an anemone but rather the first known organism in a new order of animals, according to new research. 
For one thing, they're actually animals—cousins of corals and jellyfish. And here's another surprise: Although anemones seem to be planted in one place, many kinds can move. At the bottom of a sea anemone's tube-shaped body is a sticky, muscular foot. The anemone uses the foot to hold on to rocks or other surfaces. Most anemones prefer to stay stuck where they are. But some move by sliding along slowly on their feet.
The sea anemone is considered to be the flower of the sea. Sea anemones look like plants, but they are really meat-eating animals. Sea anemones come in different sizes and many different colors. The sea anemone can attach itself to rocks or coral. In the center of the sea anemone is their mouth. In order for the sea anemone to eat, they must wait for their food to swim by.
A transparent shrimp lurks nearly unseen amid the tentacles of a sea anemone. An anemone’s tentacles surround a central mouth, which feeds the invertebrate’s single body cavity. That one cavity performs the roles of the stomach, intestines, lungs, circulatory system, and other critical bodily systems. Anemones appear in an enchanting variety of shapes and colors, but these simple invertebrates are essentially tubelike animals. One end of an anemone’s body is attached to or dug into the seafloor, while the other hosts a mouth surrounded by tentacles.