Featuring a year round mild climate and an average of 7 hours of sunshine daily, Coolum weather has some of the highest levels of sunshine in the world. Cooulm’s seasonal variations are much more subtle and far less extreme than those of northern Asia, North America and Europe. Unsurprisingly summer is the perfect time to cool off with a dip but even in winter, water temperatures are still a bearable 19 degrees. Most rainfall is experienced in the beginning of the year with an average of 30mm however winter still sees some rainfall with an average of just 40mm.
Coolum weather is far more enjoyable and is mild throughout much of the year. Summer of course, features hot sunny weather with average temperatures between 17 to 28 degrees Celsius from December to February. Unsurprisingly summer is the perfect time to cool off with a dip but even in winter, water temperatures are still a bearable 19 degrees. Most rainfall is experienced in the beginning of the year with an average of 30mm however winter still sees some rainfall with an average of just 40mm.
Monthly statistics are only included if there are more than 10 years of data. The number of years (provided in the 2nd last column of the table) may differ between elements if the observing program at the site changed. More detailed data for individual sites can be obtained by contacting the Bureau. 
Coolum Beach weather summary for coming week. The maximum temperature for Coolum Beach over the next 7 day will be 26℃ (or 79℉) on Wednesday 30 th September at around 1 pm. In the same week the minimum temperature will be 16℃ (or 60℉) on Sunday 4 th October at around 10 pm. Our Coolum Beach weather forecaster is reporting Thursday 1 st October to be the wettest day in the coming week with around 3.60mm (or 0.1 inches) of rainfall. Make sure to carry an umbrella if you are out and about in Coolum Beach. Coolum Beach weather text for Mon 05 th October. It looks on Monday, 05 October the Coolum Beach weather is going to be sunny. The visibility is going to be around 10 km i.e. 6 miles and an atmospheric pressure of 1029 mb.
Fri 16 Oct Sunshine Coast Area. Partly cloudy. Slight (30%) chance of a shower in the morning and afternoon. Light winds becoming east to southeasterly 20 to 30 km/h in the morning then becoming light in the late evening. The chance of a thunderstorm about the hinterland in the late morning and afternoon. Light winds becoming easterly 15 to 20 km/h in the middle of the day then becoming light in the evening.
Southeast Coast for Thursday Partly cloudy. High (70%) chance of showers, most likely during this afternoon and evening. The chance of a thunderstorm during this afternoon and evening, possibly severe. Winds N/NW 20 to 30 km/h. A tale of two residents: contrasting experiences in the aftermath of Dungog storm. 15:22 EDT. Considerable progress has been made in the six months since an in the New South Wales Hunter Valley, but some residents are still feeling the pain of the experience.
Part of a number of holiday hotspots lining the coast that are famous for their almost endless sunshine, Coolum weather is home to one of the most ideal climates in the world. Unsurprisingly summer is the perfect time to cool off with a dip but even in winter, water temperatures are still a bearable 19 degrees. Most rainfall is experienced in the beginning of the year with an average of 30mm however winter still sees some rainfall with an average of just 40mm.
Monthly statistics are only included if there are more than 10 years of data. The number of years (provided in the 2nd last column of the table) may differ between elements if the observing program at the site changed. 
Coolum: Annual Weather Averages. January is the hottest month in Coolum with an average temperature of 25°C (77°F) and the coldest is July at 15°C (59°F) .
Partly cloudy. Slight (20%) chance of a shower in the north in the morning. Near zero chance of rain elsewhere. Light winds becoming easterly 15 to 25 km/h during the morning. High (70%) chance of showers, most likely in the morning and afternoon. Light winds becoming east to southeasterly 20 to 30 km/h in the morning then becoming light in the late evening.