At 120 degrees Fahrenheit / 48 degrees Celsius, the recommended temperature setting for home water heaters, skin requires five minutes of exposure for a full thickness burn to occur. When the temperature of a hot liquid is increased to 140 F / 60 C. it takes only five seconds or less for a serious burn to occur 1. 
So keep your hot water temperature lower and you’ll save more energy. The default setting on most water heaters is 60C or 140F, but the best hot water temperature is 49C or 120F – this will save you about 25% of your hot water heating costs.
Most water heaters don't have a thermostat control that is calibrated in such a way that you can just dial in 125 degrees. So to check your hot water temperature, you'll probably need to use a reliable thermometer to check at a faucet. Test the water temperature when the water heater is fully heated (e.g., not while it's reheating after you've taken a 20-minute shower). Thousands of people were being severely burned every year by exposure to water so hot that it could scald in seconds. For that reason, since the 1980s new water heaters installed in houses have had the hot water temperature set at 125 degrees or less.
It’s true that you’ll use less water from your hot water tank if the hot water temperature in the tank is hotter. For a given temperature coming out the tap, the higher the hot water temperature, the less hot water and the more cold water you’ll use. The default setting on most water heaters is 60C or 140F, but the best hot water temperature is 49C or 120F – this will save you about 25% of your hot water heating costs.
Very hot water temperature can cause burns with great rapidity, and as such, care in setting your hot water heater is required. Setting the hot water temperature lower also means a savings in energy bills for heating the home's water in many cases. However, a lower temperature does mean you will run out of hot water more quickly. Most experts recommend that hot water temperature should not exceed 125° F (51.66° C). Some pediatricians instead suggest setting the hot water temperature at 120° F (48.88° C). With this water temperature, a child would have to run water over the same place for ten minutes prior to receiving a severe burn.
1 Reduce hot water temperature. 2  Set your water heater to the normal setting or 120-degrees Fahrenheit, unless the owner's manual for your dishwasher requires a higher setting. 3  Savings are 7-11 percent of water heating costs. 4  Seal up the leaks. 1 Keeping your furnace clean, lubricated and properly adjusted will reduce energy use, saving up to 5 percent of heating costs. 2  Reduce hot water temperature. 3
Save. Although manufacturer’s usually set water heaters at 140 degrees F, you can reduce your carbon footprint and save money by adjusting your water heater thermostat. According to the U.S. Department of Energy, for each 10 degree reduction in water temperature, you can save between 3 and 5 percent in energy costs. They also recommend setting water heater temperature to 120 degrees F at the faucet to reduce the danger of scalding. (Jupiterimages/liquidlibrary/Getty Images).
What is the best hot water temperature – hotter or colder? If I turn the heater temperature up high, will I use less energy to heat my water? After all, less hot water will be coming out of the hot water tank since I’ll be blending in a higher proportion of cold water. The default setting on most water heaters is 60C or 140F, but the best hot water temperature is 49C or 120F – this will save you about 25% of your hot water heating costs.
Every water heater is preset in America to 120F by the manufactures, but some states like Wisconsin require the water heater temp to be at least 125F. I set mine at 125F, which is the recommended setting for my REEM water heater. Some pediatricians instead suggest setting the hot water temperature at 120° F (48.88° C). With this water temperature, a child would have to run water over the same place for ten minutes prior to receiving a severe burn.