The main external structures of the female reproductive system include: 1  Labia majora: The labia majora enclose and protect the other external reproductive organs. 2  Literally translated as large lips, the labia majora are relatively large and fleshy, and are comparable to the scrotum in males. A. The female reproductive system is designed to carry out several functions. It produces the female egg cells necessary for reproduction, called the ova or oocytes. The system is designed to transport the ova to the site of fertilization.
Font Size. A. A. A. The purpose of the organs of the male reproductive system is to perform the following functions: 1  To produce, maintain, and transport sperm (the male reproductive cells) and protective fluid (semen). 2  To discharge sperm within the female reproductive tract during sex. 
Most of the male reproductive system is located outside of the man’s abdominal cavity or pelvis. The external structures of the male reproductive system are the penis, the scrotum and the testicles. Penis — The penis is the male organ for sexual intercourse. It has three parts: the root, which attaches to the wall of the abdomen; the body, or shaft; and the glans, which is the cone-shaped end of the penis. The Male Reproductive System. The organs of the male reproductive system are specialized for the following functions: 1  To produce, maintain and transport sperm (the male reproductive cells) and protective fluid (semen). 2  To discharge sperm within the female reproductive tract. 3  To produce and secrete male sex hormones.
The scrotum, testes (testicles), vas deferens, seminal vesicles, and prostate comprise the rest of the reproductive system. The penis consists of the root (which is attached to the lower abdominal structures and pelvic bones), the visible part of the shaft, and the glans penis (the cone-shaped end). 
The reproductive system or genital system is a system of sex organs within an organism which work together for the purpose of sexual reproduction. Many non-living substances such as fluids, hormones, and pheromones are also important accessories to the reproductive system. 
The primary function of the reproductive system is to produce male and female sex cells and to ensure the growth and development of offspring. The reproductive system is comprised of male and female reproductive organs and structures. The growth and activity of these organs and structures is regulated by hormones. The female reproductive system contains organs and structures that promote the production, support, growth, and development of female gametes (egg cells) and a growing fetus. Sources: 1  SEER Training Modules, Introduction to the Reproductive System.
Male System The structure and function of the human male reproductive system, is very similar to that of many other mammals. The male system is designed to make sperm or male gametes and is adapted to provide for the delivery of these gametes to the female to allow for fertilization. 
The female gametophyte structure that produces eggs in nonvascular plants are called archegonia. The male structure that produces sperm are called antheridia. A gametophyt … e is the part of the plant that is responsible for creating gametes AKA sexual reproductive cell (sperm or egg). The reproductive structure of a gymnosperm is the cone. The cone produces pollen or sperm cells that will later on fertilize a female plants eggs or anthers.
The female reproductive system has two functions: The first is to produce egg cells, and the second is to protect and nourish the offspring until birth. The male reproductive system has one function, and it is to produce and deposit sperm. Humans have a high level of sexual differentiation. The human reproductive system usually involves internal fertilization by sexual intercourse. During this process, the male inserts his erect penis into the female's vagina and ejaculates semen, which contains sperm.