Ghrelin is a hormone produced by specialized cells that line the stomach and the pancreas. In the stomach, cells that secrete ghrelin include the P/D1 cells in the fundus or upper part of the stomach and in the pancreas, ghrelin secreting cells are called epsilon cells. If the ventromedial hypothalamus is removed, feeding increases, leading to weight gain and severe obesity. A hormone that counteracts the effects of ghrelin is leptin, which is produced by the fat or adipose tissue in the body. Leptin induces satiation or a feeling of fullness after a meal.
Ghrelin is produced and secreted by specialized cells in the stomach (and to some extent by intestine and placenta) and the upper part of the small intestine. It is now established that ghrelin is a peripheral signal from the stomach that is secreted upon hunger. Ghrelin travels in the blood to the brain where it activates neurons in the hypothalamus and stimulates eating.
1 Ghrelin is secreted by endocrine cells in the stomach, especially when one is hungry and. 2  acts on the hypothalamus to stimulate feeding. 3  This action counteracts the inhibition of feeding by leptin and PYY3-36. 
Ghrelin (pronounced GREL-in), the hunger hormone, also known as lenomorelin (INN), is a peptide hormone produced by ghrelinergic cells in the gastrointestinal tract which functions as a neuropeptide in the central nervous system. Ghrelin is encoded by the GHRL gene and is presumably produced from the cleavage of the prepropeptide ghrelin/obestatin. Full-length preproghrelin is homologous to promotilin and both are members of the motilin family.
What is ghrelin? Ghrelin is a hormone that is produced and released mainly by the stomach with small amounts also released by the small intestine, pancreas and brain. Ghrelin has numerous functions. It is termed the ‘hunger hormone’ because it stimulates appetite, increases food intake and promotes fat storage. Ghrelin is produced by the stomach. Among its numerous functions, ghrelin increases appetite and stimulates the release of growth hormone.
While ghrelin is an appetite-stimulating peptide, leptin is an appetite-suppressing one. Ghrelin, secreted from the stomach, particularly influences the metabolism of fat tissue by promoting its storage during hard times. Leptin and ghrelin function interdependently in healthy humans. Leptin is produced in the fat cells and released in the brain. Leptin gives us a feeling of satisfaction. While ghrelin enhances appetite, leptin acts as a satiety signal to diminish it. Yet, it’s not that simple.
Medical Definition of GHRELIN. : a 28-amino-acid peptide hormone that is secreted primarily by stomach cells with lesser amounts secreted by other cells (as of the hypothalamus), that is a growth hormone secretagogue, and that has been implicated in the stimulation of fat storage and food intake. Tweet
Reviewed: December 2014. Ghrelin is a hormone that is produced and released mainly by the stomach with small amounts also released by the small intestine, pancreas and brain. Ghrelin has numerous functions. It is termed the ‘hunger hormone’ because it stimulates appetite, increases food intake and promotes fat storage. Ghrelin is produced by the stomach. Among its numerous functions, ghrelin increases appetite and stimulates the release of growth hormone.
The predominant source of circulating ghrelin is the gastrointestinal tract, primarily from the stomach, but also in smaller amounts from the intestine. The hypothalamus in the brain is another significant source of ghrelin; smaller amounts are produced in the placenta, kidney, and pituitary gland. 
When the stomach is empty, ghrelin is secreted. When the stomach is stretched, secretion stops. It acts on hypothalamic brain cells both to increase hunger, and to increase gastric acid secretion and gastrointestinal motility to prepare the body for food intake. Ghrelin is encoded by the GHRL gene and is presumably produced from the cleavage of the prepropeptide ghrelin/obestatin. Full-length preproghrelin is homologous to promotilin and both are members of the motilin family.