Scarab Beetle. Appearance: The particular species of beetle represented in the numerous ancient Egyptian amulets and works of art was commonly the large sacred scarab (Scarabaeus sacer). This beetle was famous for his habit of rolling balls of dung along the ground and depositing them in its burrows. When the dung was consumed the young beetles would emerge from the hole. Millions of amulets and stamp seals of stone or faience were fashioned in Egypt depicted the scarab beetle. Meaning: It seemed to the ancient Egyptians that the young scarab beetles emerged spontaneously from the burrow were they were born.
Scarab Meaning ~. Scarab beetle is a guide of the cosmic universe, teaching us about the elements of the creative forces... For the Scarab is symbolic of eternity itself. The mystical Scarab beetle appears now to show you a crossroads... you have the choice of continuing on the same path you have taken thus far, or you can peer down the path that holds a new awakening and enlightenment of the cosmic elements and forces.
Beetles of the Scarabaeidae family (dung beetle) roll dung into a ball as food and as a brood chamber in which to lay eggs that are later transformed into larvae. For these reasons the scarab was seen as a symbol of this heavenly cycle and of the idea of rebirth or regeneration. The Egyptian god Khepri, Ra as the rising sun, was often depicted as a scarab beetle or as a scarab beetle-headed man. The ancient Egyptians believed that Khepri renewed the sun every day before rolling it above the horizon, then carried it through the other world after sunset, only to renew it, again, the next day. For reasons that are not clear (although no doubt connected to the religious significance of the Egyptian god Khepri), amulets in the form of scarab beetles had become enormously popular in Ancient Egypt by the early Middle Kingdom (approx. 2000 BCE) and remained popular for the rest of the pharaonic period and beyond.
Confidence votes 79.9K. The scarab beetle is a dung beetle, it lays its egg in a ball of dung that it buries in the ground. The egg hatches and the grub eats the dung and then pupates to emerge from the ground as a new adult beetle. The ancient Egyptians saw how these beetles lived and emerged from dry ground and used this as a metaphor for the entombing and resurrection of their mummies.
One of these amulets was the Scarab, or good luck beetle. Real mummified beetles were buried with the dead. Representations of beetles were worn as amulets, used as seals, and/or buried with the dead. The Scarab is modeled after a variety of dung-beetle (Scarabaeus sacer). 1 Ancient Spirituality: Egyptian Scarabs Ancient Egyptians believed in using stones and amulets to protect themselves against forces of evil. 2  The Egyptian scarab is one of the most notable of these amulets.
...thus I evolved myself under the evolutions of the god Khepri.... - Papyrus of Nesiamsu (Ptolemaic Period). By far the most important amulet in ancient Egypt was the scarab, symbolically as sacred to the Egyptians as the cross is to Christians. Scarabs were already known in the Old Kingdom, and in the First Intermediate Period the undersides were decorated. For the average Egyptian a simple message was provided on the scarab with no rhetoric: 1  A concise simple good wish, such as: (May) Amun (grant) a good new year. 2  A name, such as: The Lady Y-ab,. 3  A motto, such as: Firm of heart.
the Egyptian symbol of eternity. Scarab Symbolic Meaning... Scarab beetle is a metaphysical and mythological symbol of ancient Egypt. Scarab holds great meaning and significance... opening one up to an entirely different atmosphere, to the elements and mysteries of the cosmos. ~ Presley Love. For the Scarab is symbolic of eternity itself. The mystical Scarab beetle appears now to show you a crossroads... you have the choice of continuing on the same path you have taken thus far, or you can peer down the path that holds a new awakening and enlightenment of the cosmic elements and forces.
Khepri was connected with the scarab beetle (kheprer), because the scarab rolls balls of dung across the ground, an act that the Egyptians saw as a symbol of the forces that move the sun across the sky. 
(A mun-my-Rock). To the ancient Egyptians, the scarab or dung beetle was a protector of written products. The scarab was also used as a holder or medium for personal name seals. A figurine of a scarab would be carved out of stone, and then on the smooth stomach of the scarab, the engraving of a seal was made. Khepri Sun-god creator in the form of a scarab beetle. Like Atum, Khephir was a self-created god. The scarab lays its eggs in a ball of dung and rolls it to hide in a safe place. From this unlikely substance the Egyptians observed new life emerging, seemingly from the Earth.