PortAventura (. [ˌpɔrtəβənˈtuɾə]) is a theme park and a resort in the south of Barcelona, in Salou, Tarragona, Spain; on the Costa Dorada. It attracts around 4 million visitors per year making it the most visited theme park in Spain. PortAventura Park is also the 6th most visited theme park in Europe. Costa Caribe Aquatic Park is a water park which is adjacent to PortAventura Park. It has an area of 50,000 m2, which includes 16 attractions and slides, as well as over 8,500 m2 of water-covered surface area.
PortAventura is a Theme Park located in Salou, Spain. There are not many places in the world where you can experience adventures and excitement that will stay with you forever, for PortAventura offers you everything from the best rides to the greatest hotels plus the Costa Caribe Aquatic Park! 
Port Aventura is a theme park located on the Costa Dorada. But it's also much, much more, Port Aventura resort offers you everything from the best rides to the greatest accommodations, including among others, an aquatic park. Port Aventura Park is the theme park where you will live incredible adventures and amazing experiences within five theme zones: Imperial China, the Wild Far West, the exotic Polynesia, the Mexico of the Aztecs, and the warm Mediterrania. Mediterrània Photo: PortAventura Portaventura. website
Photo Credit: PortAventura Website. Port Aventura Park is the theme park where you will live incredible adventures and amazing experiences within five theme zones: Imperial China, the Wild Far West, the exotic Polynesia, the Mexico of the Aztecs, and the warm Mediterrania. Mediterrània Photo: PortAventura Portaventura. website
Popular theme park. Three million visitors flock to PortAventura, on the Costa Dorada, each year. The giant theme park – the most popular in Spain – is what brings most of them, but the town also boasts an expansive sandy beach, and lively bars and restaurants.
Photo Credit: PortAventura Website. Port Aventura Park is the theme park where you will live incredible adventures and amazing experiences within five theme zones: Imperial China, the Wild Far West, the exotic Polynesia, the Mexico of the Aztecs, and the warm Mediterrania. mediterrània Port Aventura Park is the theme park where you will live incredible adventures and amazing experiences within five theme zones: Imperial China, the Wild Far West, the exotic Polynesia, the Mexico of the Aztecs, and the warm Mediterrania. Mediterrània Photo: PortAventura Portaventura. website
28,400 pages on this wiki. The Count joins the cast in October 2013. PortAventura is a theme park and resort in Salou, Spain, located in the province of Tarragona, Costa Daurada, and an hour drive south-west from Barcelona. 
There is a train station for PortAventura which has connections to Barcelona and Salou. It was conceived and built as a joint effort by a Spanish Consortium and Anheuser-Busch (Busch Entertainment Corporation). Costa Caribe Aquatic Park is a water park which is adjacent to PortAventura Park. It has an area of 50,000 m2, which includes 16 attractions and slides, as well as over 8,500 m2 of water-covered surface area.
Salou (. [səˈɫɔw]) is a municipality of the comarca of Tarragones, tarragonès in the province Of, tarragona In, Catalonia. Spain the city is approximately 10 km From tarragona And reus on The Costa daurada and 112 km From. barcelona Salou is also home to the Lumine Golf Club (formerly known as PortAventura golf). There are three courses, labeled as north, south, and central. North and central were designed by Greg Norman and the south course was designed by Green Project.
Port aventura lies near the coast of Spain next to a town called Salou in the province of Cataluna. Cataluña the nearest big town Is (tarragona 10 km) away and the nearest city Is.(barcelona 100). km Girona airport is 2 hours drive away from Port Aventura, and Barcelona airport is 1 hour away. From both cities you can take the AP7 motorway. The AP7 motorway is a toll motorway so have some cash ready to pay when you exit.