Living only about 30 years, it is a common pioneer species on abandoned fields and burned areas. Characteristics: Gray birch grows quickly to 20 to 30 feet tall and 15 inch trunk diameter, with an irregular open crown of slender branches. The tree often has multiple trunks branching off of an old stump. Gray Birch has been commonly planted as a landscaping tree in southern Pennsylvania and New Jersey as it tolerates heat and humidity better than Paper Birch and is more resistant to Bronze Birch Borer and leaf miners.
Habitat: Grey birch can often be found with white birch and its associated species, again on dry sites, while bog birch lives up to its name, being found in acidic, boggy areas. It needs full sun to thrive and is usually surrounded by plants with similar tolerances-willow, rose, Labrador tea, larch and black spruce. Grey Birch (Betula populifolia). Background: The four birches native to Prince Edward Island range from the common to the very rare. As with other families, each member has a distinct place in our Island ecosystem, though there may be two or even three species growing in the same area.
Birch tree Facts. Birch is deciduous tree that belongs to the family Betulaceae. There are around 60 different species of birch that grow in temperate climate around the world. Birch requires well-drained soil, enough moisture and direct sunlight for the proper growth. Bark of the birch can be white, grey, yellow, silver or black in color. Young trees have smooth bark. Deep ridges on the bark are characteristic for the older plants. Bark of all birch species (except Grey Birch) peels off in long horizontal strips.
Introduction. A small, North American native tree, gray birch reaches 20- to 30-feet in height with a 10- to 20-foot spread, often forming loose, open thickets in the wild but easily trained to a single, slender trunk with an irregular, upright, pyramidal silhouette. 
Leaves are not retained year to year. The Gray Birch (Populifolia) has a short life span relative to most other plant species and a rapid growth rate. At maturity, the typical Gray Birch (Populifolia) will reach up to 40 feet high, with a maximum height at 20 years of 40 feet. The Gray Birch (Populifolia) is easily found in nurseries, garden stores and other plant dealers and distributors. It can be propagated by bare root, container, seed. It has a rapid ability to spread through seed production and the seedlings have medium vigor.
Betula populifolia Marsh., gray birch, is a pioneer species typically found on disturbed sites with exposed, well drained soils. Gray birch is a moderate sized tree with fast growth (2-5 ft/yr) on sites with nutrient availability. The Gray Birch (Populifolia) is easily found in nurseries, garden stores and other plant dealers and distributors. It can be propagated by bare root, container, seed. It has a rapid ability to spread through seed production and the seedlings have medium vigor.
Uses Conservation: Gray birch is a pioneer species that can tolerate multiple soil conditions. It is a good hardwood species for use in the revegetation of mine spoils and other disturbed areas. Ethnobotanic: Native Americans used a bark decoction of gray birch on swollen or infected cuts. Other key characteristics include: tapered, sharp leaf tips (acuminate) and black triangular bark patches on branch bases. Several trees occur in a cluster, growing from the same root group. Gray birch is a rapid grower (0.6 m per year) and short-lived (approximately 20 years).
Birch family (Betulaceae). Description: This small tree is up to 30' tall, forming either a single or multiple trunks (usually the latter) up to 1' across. There is a narrow crown of leafy branches above each trunk. Trunk bark is white to light gray with horizontal fissures; it does not peel away. Range & Habitat: Gray Birch is a rare native tree in Illinois, where it is found in the NE section of the state (see Distribution Map). Some populations of Gray Birch in Illinois may be naturalized descendants of cultivated trees.
Gray birch. Gray birch is a narrow, pyramidal tree of cool climates. Bright green leaves turn a yellow fall color. Older trees develop a chalky white bark that does not peel. A good selection for poor soils and other difficult sites, it also demonstrates some resistance to bronze birch borer (BBB). 
Betula populifolia (Gray Birch) is a deciduous tree native to North America. Range: It ranges from southeastern Ontario east to Nova Scotia, and south to Pennsylvania and New Jersey, with disjunct populations in Indiana, Virginia, and North Carolina. Gray Birch has been commonly planted as a landscaping tree in southern Pennsylvania and New Jersey as it tolerates heat and humidity better than Paper Birch and is more resistant to Bronze Birch Borer and leaf miners.