You may not have any symptoms of carotid artery disease. Plaque builds up in the carotid arteries over time with no warning signs until you have a transient ischemic attack (TIA) or a stroke. Signs of a stroke may include: 1  Sudden loss of vision, blurred vision, or difficulty in seeing out of one or both eyes. 
The temporary loss of nerve-signaling in the body due to a clogged carotid artery can cause you to experience sensations of weakness or numbness in your limbs or face. Typically, these symptoms arise on only one side of your body and can last for several minutes or hours. Loss of vision can occur as a symptom of a clogged carotid artery. Photo Credit eye image by Stanisa Martinovic from Fotolia.com. The blood vessels that lie on either side of your neck and carry blood from your heart to your brain are called the carotid arteries.
One artery is located on each side of the neck. When your doctor puts his or her hands on your neck to detect a pulse, he or she is feeling for one of your carotid artery. Carotid artery disease (CAD) occurs when a blockage in one of these arteries decreases the blood flow to the brain. This can lead to stroke. 
People with a history of heart diseases, like, arteriosclerosis, atherosclerosis, etc., should be on the look out for symptoms of blocked neck arteries. Symptoms of Severely Blocked Arteries. If the TIA goes undetected, then you are at the risk of having a stroke, caused due to complete blockage of carotid artery. Symptoms of Blocked Arteries in Neck. Blocked arteries in neck, produce symptoms only when the blockage is severe. Let us understand in detail, what are these symptoms like, from the following Buzzle write-up.
The carotid arteries are two large blood vessels that supply oxygenated blood to the large, front part of the brain. This is where thinking, speech, personality, and sensory and motor functions reside. You can feel your pulse in the carotid arteries on each side of your neck, right below the angle of the jaw line. Like the arteries that supply blood to the heart -- the coronary arteries -- the carotid arteries can also develop atherosclerosis or “hardening of the arteries” on the inside of the vessels. Over time, the buildup of fatty substances and cholesterol narrows the carotid arteries.
The two common carotid arteries – which supply blood to the brain, face, neck and scalp – are in the neck. Here are some blocked carotid artery symptoms in neck. With carotid artery disease, plaque, a waxy substance, accumulates in the carotid arteries. ... 
Carotid arteries are located in the anterior of the neck, on either side. Just like other arteries in the body, neck arteries are also susceptible to blockages. However, neck arteries can work just as fine, even though they are partially blocked. As a result, you may not experience any symptoms or signs of carotid artery stenosis. The symptoms surface only when the blockage is severe, and the artery functions only through a small opening. Let us look at the symptoms of blocked neck arteries in such a situation. Symptoms of Blocked Arteries in Neck. Blocked arteries in neck, produce symptoms only when the blockage is severe. Let us understand in detail, what are these symptoms like, from the following Buzzle write-up.
Carotid artery disease, narrowing of the arteries in the neck that supply the brain with blood, is a gradual process that slowly blocks the artery, and therefore often does not present any warning signs until the artery is almost totally closed. When blood flow is blocked through the artery, a stroke results. 
Complete clogging of the carotid arteries is uncommon. A sudden and complete blockage of the right or left carotid causes a massive stroke of the brain on the same side, often rapidly fatal. Such a stroke causes complete paralysis of one side of the body and face. This paralysis is usually permanent among survivors. Symptoms of Clogged Arteries in the Neck. Medical team working on a patient in the emergency room Photo Credit monkeybusinessimages/iStock/Getty Images. Four blood vessels in the neck carry oxygen and nutrients to the brain -- the right and left carotid arteries and the right and left vertebral arteries.
The carotid arteries are major arteries found on each side of the neck. They supply blood from the heart to the brain. This condition is a major risk factor for ischemic stroke. Ischemic stroke is when blood flow to the brain is blocked due to blood clots. Tell your doctor if you have symptoms of a stroke or a transient ischemic attack (TIA or mini-stroke). This is a warning sign that you may have carotid artery stenosis. Symptoms may include: 1  Blindness, blurry or dim vision. 2  Weakness, numbness, or tingling of the face, arm, leg, or one side of the body.