Several factors will determine the germination rate of grass seed. Air temperature, soil to seed contact, , presence and consistency of moisture and, age and quality of the seed. 
Cool season grass such as Fescue, germinate best when the soil temperatures are between 50&deg and 65&deg degrees F. These soil temperatures usually occur when the daytime air temperatures are between 60&deg and 75&deg degrees. The fescue grasses, when planted properly, germinate within 10 to 14 days. Plant your cool season grass seed when the fall temperatures reach 75&deg and are dropping as winter approaches. Alternately the second choice is to plant in spring when spring temperatures have reached 60 ° and are rising in the spring.
Keep in mind that some warm-season grasses, including some cultivars of bermudagrass and St. Augustine grass, don't do well when planted from seed. The soil temperature range for most warm-season grasses is between 65 and 75 degrees Fahrenheit and sometimes higher. Optimal air temperatures for warm-season grasses are 80 to 95 degrees Fahrenheit. Seed that is sown in the spring is almost certain to fail, according to the University of Missouri Extension. Air temperatures for cool-season grasses should be between 60 and 75 degrees Fahrenheit, with soil temperatures between 50 and 65 degrees Fahrenheit.
1 Remember that the grass seed germination temperature needs to be over 65 degrees. 2  Annual seed germinates very quickly. ( 3 Unless you only want a temporary lawn, do not buy annual. 4  Avoid mixtures with more than 20% annual seed--a cheap price should be a red flag). 
Submit. Rye grass seed sprouts in soil temperatures of 50 to 65 degrees Fahrenheit and air temperatures 10 degrees higher. Cool-season grasses, both annual and perennial rye grasses perform best in spring and fall and deteriorate in the summer heat. Keywords: rye grass temperatures, ryegrass best temperature, rye grass seed
Soil temperature that is, not air temperature... Added Info: The below chart taken from Penn State Dept. Of Crop And Soil Sciences website. My suggested temperature of 65 degrees or more, falls in mid-range for optimum seed germination. Also, the type of grass has alot to do with it. Generally, Warm Season grass seed requires the warmer soil temperatures. Even theCool season grass seed likes a warmer soil temperature for successfully germinating... The proof is in the puddin' and that's the truth! Table 1. Optimum temperatures for seed germination of cool-season turfgrasses. 
PLANT WHEN DAYTIME TEMPERATURES ARE BETWEEN 60 & 75 DEGREES: Cool season grasses grow best when the soil temperatures are between 50 and 65 degrees F. These temperatures usually occur when the daytime air temperatures are between 60 and 75 degrees. High temperatures of summer can cause these plants to go dormant and thus planting during summer is asking for problems. 
Usually planted in the early fall, cool-season grass seeds prefer daytime temperatures ranging from 60 to 75 F. With this temperature range, the soil itself is usually between 50 and 65 F -- the right environment for germination. If your seeds remain at their ideal temperature range and are planted no more than 1/4 inch deep, you should see germination after three weeks. It is critical to keep the top 1/2 inch of soil moist with a misty spray so the seeds continue to absorb moisture as the seedling grows larger.