This chart describes the expected percentage of people who perform the job of Radiologic Technologist in Atlanta, GA that make less than that salary. For example 50% of the people who perform the job of Radiologic Technologist in Atlanta are expected to make less than the median. Prevents patient from being exposed to unnecessary radiation. Requires an associate's degree from an accredited program and registration as a technologist by the A.R.R.T. Has knowledge of commonly used concepts, practices, and procedures within a particular field.
$68,000. Average Radiology Technician salaries for job postings in Atlanta, GA are 25% higher than average Radiology Technician salaries for job postings nationwide. Radiology Technician in Atlanta, GA. Average Radiology Technician salaries for job postings in Atlanta, GA are 25% higher than average Radiology Technician salaries for job postings nationwide.
Average Radiologic Technologist salaries for job postings in Georgia are 14% higher than average Radiologic Technologist salaries for job postings nationwide. 
The average wage for a Radiologic Technologist in Atlanta, Georgia is $22.51 per hour. Most people with this job move on to other positions after 20 years in this career. For the first five to ten years in this position, wages increase modestly, but any additional experience does not have a big effect on pay. $39,565 - $79,673. X Total Pay combines base annual salary or hourly wage, bonuses, profit sharing, tips, commissions, overtime pay and other forms of cash earnings, as applicable for this job.
Salaries for Radiologists. The average salary for professionals in this specialty is a very high $67,000 per year. In comparison, the average annual salary for this field in the US as a whole is $49,000. Supervisory positions in radiologic technology were the highest earners, drawing around $80,000 per year. Entry-level radiologic technologist positions tended to be the lowest earners, taking in about $54,000 per year. Radiology Requirements in Georgia. There are no state-mandated requirements to practice radiologic science in the state of Georgia. However, almost all respected employers of radiologic technologists will require their employees to be licensed by the American Registry of Radiologic Technologists (ARRT).
Georgia Radiologic Technologist Salaries. Within Georgia there is a lot of variation in Radiologic Technologist salaries. These variations depend on on a wide range of factors from population to general competitiveness in the market. Below is a map displaying a few key cities in Georgia and surrounding states, click on any one to find Radiologic Technologist Salaries for that area. Produces radiographs (x-rays) to aid in the diagnosis of medical problems. Prevents patient from being exposed to unnecessary radiation. Requires an associate's degree from an accredited program and registration as a technologist by the A.R.R.T. Has knowledge of commonly used concepts, practices, and procedures within a particular field. Relies on instructions and pre-established guidelines to perform the functions of the job
In 2009, the median radiologic technologist salary in Georgia was $24.18 per hour or $50,300 per year. These figures are quite close to the national average salaries for technologists working in other states. The BLS reports the following average annual income figures for radiologic technologists working in the cities and non-metropolitan areas of Georgia: 1  Albany: $40,600. 2  Atlanta-Sandy Springs-Marietta: $53,800. 3  Augusta-Richmond County, GA-SC: $46,900. 4  Gainesville: $56,300. 5  Macon: $51,000. 6  Middle Georgia: $42,600