Your child needs to take the medicine called salbutamol (say: sal-BYOO-tah-mawl). This information sheet explains what salbutamol does, how to give it, and what side effects or problems your child may have when he or she takes this medicine. This helps to open up the airways and helps to relieve chest tightness, wheezing, and cough so that your child can breathe more easily. It is called a bronchodilator or a reliever medicine. Salbutamol also helps prevent shortness of breath and wheezing during exercise, i.e. exercise-induced asthma. You may hear salbutamol called by its brand names, Ventolin or Airomir. Salbutamol comes in an inhaler, dry powder inhaler (i.e. Diskus), respirator solution, and nebules
It is used to treat asthma, chronic bronchitis, emphysema and to prevent exercise-related asthma. Report Problems to the Food and Drug Administration. You are encouraged to report negative side effects of prescription drugs to the FDA. Visit the FDA MedWatch website or call 1-800-FDA-1088. 
1 If you are using other inhalers at the same time, use the salbutamol inhaler first and then wait for a few minutes before using the other inhalers. 2  Salbutamol opens your air passages to allow the other inhalers to work more effectively. 3  Carefully read your asthma action plan from your nurse or doctor. For these reasons, before you start using a salbutamol inhaler it is important that your doctor knows: 1  If you are pregnant, trying for a baby or breast-feeding. 2  This is because it is particularly important that your breathing is well controlled if you are pregnant. 3  If you have an overactive thyroid gland.
USES: Albuterol (also known as salbutamol) is used to prevent and treat wheezing and shortness of breath caused by breathing problems (e.g., asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease). It is also used to prevent asthma brought on by exercise. Albuterol belongs to a class of drugs known as bronchodilators. It works in the airways by opening breathing passages and relaxing muscles. Controlling symptoms of breathing problems can decrease time lost from work or school.
Salbutamol was the first selective β 2 -receptor agonist to be marketed in 1968. It was first sold by Allen & Hanburys (UK) under the brand name Ventolin, and has been used for the treatment of asthma ever since. It was approved for use in the US by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in May 1982. Salbutamol is mostly taken by the inhaled route for direct effect on bronchial smooth muscle. This is usually achieved through a metered-dose inhaler (MDI), nebulizer, or other proprietary delivery devices.
Salbutamol (INN) or albuterol (USAN) is a short-acting β2-adrenergic receptor agonist used for the relief of bronchospasm in conditions such as asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). It is marketed as Ventolin among other brand names. Salbutamol is mostly taken by the inhaled route for direct effect on bronchial smooth muscle. This is usually achieved through a metered-dose inhaler (MDI), nebulizer, or other proprietary delivery devices.
1 Salbutamol is a reliever medication and should be used to relief your asthma symptoms. 2  You may have other medicines which you use regularly to prevent asthma symptoms. 3  It should provide immediate relief of asthma symptoms. 4  Certain medical conditions may require different dosage instructions as directed by your doctor. 1 Irritation or dryness of the mouth and throat (inhaled salbutamol only). 2  Hypokalaemia (low blood potassium levels), and can lead to muscle cramps and weakness, and in severe cases it can cause death as patients stop breathing. 3  Restlessness. 4  Diziness. 5  Bronchospasm
► After oral administration, approximately 50% of salbutamol is absorbed from the intestinal tract with a slower onset of action, reaching a peak at about 2 hours after intake. After inhalation, salbutamol reaches the lungs directly and acts within 3-5 minutes with a peak at 15-20 minutes. Overall duration of action of salbutamol is 4-6 hours. It is metabolized in the intestinal tract and in the liver and is excreted via the urine. Salbutamol is contraindicated in persons with a history of hypersensitivity reaction (urticaria, angioedema, rash) to salbutamol, or any of its components. Salbutamol is also contraindicated in patients with pre-existing cardiac tachyarrhythmias (too fast heart beat, may be regular or irregular).