What this handout is about. This handout will help you first to determine whether a particular assignment is asking for comparison/contrast and then to generate a list of similarities and differences, decide which similarities and differences to focus on, and organize your paper so that it will be clear and effective. But it’s not always so easy to tell whether an assignment is asking you to include comparison/contrast. And in some cases, comparison/contrast is only part of the essay—you begin by comparing and/or contrasting two or more things and then use what you’ve learned to construct an argument or evaluation.
They are also used to emphasize negative and positive ideas. For you to have a clue on what exactly are they, here is a list of the most common contrast and compare transition words and phrases that are used in everyday writing and speech. Using compare and contrast transition words are very easy. Nevertheless, they can greatly affect your article’s readability and quality in a positive way. Ergo, make sure you always use them. Author : Dr. Michael Babcock is a Professor of Humanities at the Liberty University, Virginia.
(These connect detail “a” to detail “b.”) Here are some comparison conjunctions that you can use: X is similar to Y in that (they)... Contrast Conjunctions are used to show how two things are different. Contrast Conjunctions are used to connect detail (a) to detail (b): Short Conjunctions Subordinating Conjunctions However, In contrast, By contrast, ..., but ..., yet. . . are different because ...
Compare and Contrast. Compare and Contrast is a text structure or pattern of organization where the similarities and differences of two or more things are explored. It is important to remember that with the compare and contrast text structure the text should be discussing similarities and differences. If the text only discusses similarities, it is only comparing.
Comparing and contrasting. -. Comparing and contrasting ideas can be difficult. Different structures are possible. For example, we can compare and contrast using conjunctions, transitional adverbs and phrases. The grammar is different. Compare to, resemble, fit, match, mirror, reinforce, reflect etc. To express contrast, you can use the following adverbs and transitional verbs: In contrast, on the other hand, however. The conjunctions though, although and but are also possible. You must also pay attention to the structure of your sentences.
Compare and Contrast Essay. A Comparison or Contrast essay is an essay in which you either compare something or contrast something. A comparison essay is an essay in which you emphasize the similarities, and a contrast essay is an essay in which you emphasize the differences. We use assessment thinking almost in everyday basis.
Consider these examples, noticing the language that is used to ask for the comparison/contrast and whether the comparison/contrast is only one part of a larger assignment: 1  Choose a particular idea or theme, such as romantic love, death, or nature, and consider how it is treated in two Romantic poems. But it’s not always so easy to tell whether an assignment is asking you to include comparison/contrast. And in some cases, comparison/contrast is only part of the essay—you begin by comparing and/or contrasting two or more things and then use what you’ve learned to construct an argument or evaluation.
The thesis of your comparison/contrast paper is very important: it can help you create a focused argument and give your reader a road map so she/he doesn’t get lost in the sea of points you are about to make. But it’s not always so easy to tell whether an assignment is asking you to include comparison/contrast. And in some cases, comparison/contrast is only part of the essay—you begin by comparing and/or contrasting two or more things and then use what you’ve learned to construct an argument or evaluation.
Recognizing comparison/contrast in assignments. Some assignments use words—like compare, contrast, similarities, and differences—that make it easy for you to see that they are asking you to compare and/or contrast. Here are a few hypothetical examples: 1  Compare and contrast Frye’s and Bartky’s accounts of oppression. But it’s not always so easy to tell whether an assignment is asking you to include comparison/contrast. And in some cases, comparison/contrast is only part of the essay—you begin by comparing and/or contrasting two or more things and then use what you’ve learned to construct an argument or evaluation.