Vulvovaginitis is an inflammation or infection of the vulva and vagina. It’s a common condition that affects women and girls of all ages, and it has a variety of causes. Other names for this condition are vulvitis and vaginitis. The sexually transmitted infection (STI) trichomonas vaginitis can also cause vulvovaginitis. This causes genital discomfort, itching, and heavy discharge. This discharge can be yellow, green, or gray. It often has a strong odor.
Vaginal yeast infection, also known as candidal vulvovaginitis and vaginal thrush, is excessive growth of yeast in the vagina that results in irritation. The most common symptom is vaginal itching, which may be severe. 
Vaginitis is a very common disease, which is characterized by an inflammation or infection of the vagina. Vaginitis can be further classified as inflammation of solely the vulva, which is called vulvitis, or inflammation of the vulva as well as inflammation of the rest of the vagina, which is called vulvovaginitis.
General Discussion. Vulvovaginitis is a common bacterial infection characterized by the simultaneous inflammation of the external parts of the female genital organs (vulva) and the canal that leads from the uterus to the external opening (vagina). It is one of the most common causes of genital symptoms in women. 
Vulvovaginitis, vulvitis, and vaginitis are general terms that refer to the inflammation of the vagina and/or vulva (the external genital organs of a woman). These conditions can be caused by bacterial, fungal, or parasitic infections. Vulvovaginitis is most often caused by a bacterial, fungal, or parasitic infection as described above. Other microorganisms may cause vulvovaginitis, or it may be caused by allergic reaction, irritation, injury, low estrogen levels, and certain diseases.
Vulvovaginitis may be due to an allergic reaction (contact vaginitis), infection (bacterial, parasitic, fungal), or hypoestrogenism (atrophic). Symptoms include burning, discomfort, dyspareunia, and abdominal vaginal discharge. It is important to localize the pain in order to arrive at a diagnosis and proper treatment. Vaginitis can be further classified as inflammation of solely the vulva, which is called vulvitis, or inflammation of the vulva as well as inflammation of the rest of the vagina, which is called vulvovaginitis.
Vulvovaginitis is an inflammation or irritation of the delicate skin of the genital area. It may cause soreness, itchiness, redness, and burning. Sometimes girls with vulvovaginitis have a slight discharge from the vagina which will stain the underpants and produce a strong odour. Vulvovaginitis can have several causes. Most often, vulvovaginitis is caused when the genital skin gets irritated. This irritation can be caused by clothing that rubs, dampness, a skin infection, bacteria from the anus, or possibly sexual abuse. Other skin problems, such as eczema, can also affect the genital skin.
Vulvovaginitis or vaginitis is swelling or infection of the vulva and vagina. Vaginitis is a common problem that can affect women and girls of all ages. It can be caused by: 1  Yeast, bacteria, viruses, and parasites. 2  Bubble baths, soaps, vaginal birth control, feminine sprays, and perfumes. Yeast infections are one of the most common causes of vulvovaginitis in women. 1  Yeast infections are most often due to the fungus Candida albicans. 2  Candida and the many other germs that normally live in the vagina keep each other in balance.
Another cause of vulvovaginitis is bacterial vaginosis, an overgrowth of certain types of bacteria in the vagina. Bacterial vaginosis may cause a thin, grey vaginal discharge and a fishy odor. An STI called trichomonas vaginitis infection is another common cause. Causes, incidence, and risk factors. Vulvovaginitis can affect women of all ages and is extremely common. It can be caused by bacteria, yeasts, viruses, and other parasites. Some sexually transmitted infections (STIs) can also cause vulvovaginitis, as can various chemicals found in bubble baths, soaps, and perfumes.