Confidence votes 18. Plasmid DNA is an extra-chromosomal DNA molecule, it cannot link up with chromosomal DNA, and it contains the genetic informations that are necessary for its own replication. Episomes is any kind of extra-chromosomal DNA that can link up with chromosomal DNA. A bacterial chromosome provides data that is required by the bacteria to survive and reproduce. A plasmid does not. It gives a bacterium special attributes in during e … xtreme conditions, such as the ability to do genetic recombination or the resistance to certain antibiotics.
Definition of EPISOME. : a genetic determinant (as the DNA of some bacteriophages) that can replicate autonomously in bacterial cytoplasm or as an integral part of the chromosomes. — epi·som·al \ˌe-pə-ˈsō-məl, -ˈzō-\ adjective. — epi·som·al·ly \-mə-lē\ adverb. episome. noun epi·some \ˈep-ə-ˌsōm, -ˌzōm\. : a genetic determinant (as the DNA of some bacteriophages) that can replicate either autonomously in bacterial cytoplasm or as an integral part of their chromosomes—compare plasmid. — epi·som·al \ˌep-ə-ˈsō-məl, -ˈzō-\ adjective
A plasmid is a small DNA molecule that is physically separate from, and can replicate independently of, chromosomal DNA within a cell. In general, in eukaryotes, episomes are closed circular DNA molecules that are replicated in the nucleus. If the plasmid is integrated into a chromosome it doesn't lose its episomal status. Actually the integration of the plasmid is a characteristic of an episome. This is a quote from this article: http://www.qub.ac.uk/mlpage/courses/level3/plasmidhistoryreview.pdf.
A plasmid is a small DNA molecule within a cell that is physically separated from a chromosomal DNA and can replicate independently. The normal number of copies of plasmid that may be found in a single cell is called the copy number, and is determined by how the replication initiation is regulated and the size of the molecule. Larger plasmids tend to have lower copy number.
mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) the DNA of the mitochondrial chromosome, existing in several thousand copies per cell and inherited exclusively from the mother. nuclear DNA (nDNA) the DNA of the chromosomes found in the nucleus of a eukaryotic cell. recombinant DNA DNA artificially constructed by insertion of foreign DNA into the DNA of an appropriate organism so that the foreign DNA is replicated along with the host DNA. DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid). The abbreviation for deoxyribonucleic acid, the primary carrier of genetic information found in the chromosomes of almost all organisms.
Abstract. Although episomal vectors are commonly transported into cells by electroporation, a number of electroporation-derived problems have led to the search for alternative transfection protocols, such as the use of transfection reagents, which are inexpensive and easy to handle. 4. Discussion. While electroporation as a method of transfection has a number of drawbacks, we showed that complexing commercial transfection reagents with episomal vectors can provide a highly efficient method of delivering the episomal vectors into the cytoplasm of primary cells with no cytotoxicity.
First Known Use of EPISOME. noun epi·some \ˈep-ə-ˌsōm, -ˌzōm\. : a genetic determinant (as the DNA of some bacteriophages) that can replicate either autonomously in bacterial cytoplasm or as an integral part of their chromosomes—compare plasmid. — epi·som·al \ˌep-ə-ˈsō-məl, -ˈzō-\ adjective. episome. noun epi·some \ˈep-ə-ˌsōm, -ˌzōm\. : a genetic determinant (as the DNA of some bacteriophages) that can replicate either autonomously in bacterial cytoplasm or as an integral part of their chromosomes—compare plasmid.
DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid). A type of nucleic acid that constitutes the molecular basis of heredity. It is found principally in the nucleus of all cells where it forms part of the chromosome, or in the cytoplasm of cells lacking a nucleus, such as bacteria. It acts as the carrier of genetic information containing the instructions (code) to make proteins. DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid). The abbreviation for deoxyribonucleic acid, the primary carrier of genetic information found in the chromosomes of almost all organisms.
Medical Definition of EPISOME. : a genetic determinant (as the DNA of some bacteriophages) that can replicate either autonomously in bacterial cytoplasm or as an integral part of their chromosomes—compare plasmid. — epi·som·al \ˌep-ə-ˈsō-məl, -ˈzō-\ adjective. episome. noun epi·some \ˈep-ə-ˌsōm, -ˌzōm\. : a genetic determinant (as the DNA of some bacteriophages) that can replicate either autonomously in bacterial cytoplasm or as an integral part of their chromosomes—compare plasmid.