The female gametophyte—specifically termed a megagametophyte —is also called the embryo sac in angiosperms. The megagametophyte produces an egg cell (or several egg cells in some groups) for the purpose of fertilization. The ovary of the gynoecium produces one or more ovules and ultimately becomes the fruit wall. Ovules are attached to the placenta in the ovary through a stalk-like structure known as a funiculus (plural, funiculi). Different patterns of ovule attachment, or placentation, can be found among plant species, these include:
The male cone (microstrobilus or pollen cone) is structurally similar across all conifers, differing only in small ways (mostly in scale arrangement) from species to species. Extending out from a central axis are microsporophylls (modified leaves). Male cones of a pine A classic example of a Lebanese Cedar cone. Immature female pine cone Pollen cone of a Japanese Larch Pineapple gall on Sitka Spruce caused by Adelges abietis. Dozens of male cones (orange and flower-like) occur in a cluster; the female cone is still immature (olive green).
Once fertilization has occurred, the embryo develops within the female gametophyte, and the ovule becomes the seed, complete with a food source (the gametophyte tissue) and a seed coat (the integument). Gymnosperm Fertilization. The female gametophyte contains several archegonia, where the egg cells originate and develop. The gametophyte itself is surrounded by layers of sporangia and integument; all of these elements comprise an ovule, which is found on the surface of a female cone.
Best Answer: 1. B-right 2. The flowers contain the structures that make the male and female GAMETEs, so .... 3. D-the gametophyte has to grow first to make the gametes 4. B-right 5. D-Only the female cone of conifers releases seeds, and the new seedlings are the sporophytes. 6. D-seeds develop within the fruit
1 As in the pines, each microspore will develop into the male gametophyte, pollen. 2  As in the pine pollen, the antheridia of the anthophyte pollen have been lost. 3  The megasporophylls are the carpels, each consisting of a stigma, style, and ovulary. The Gametophyte of the Anthophyte. You saw the cherry tree above. To see the gametophytes, we need to examine that structure unique to the Anthophytes, the flower. 1  The microsporophylls are the stamens, each tipped by the anther, which contains the diploid cells that will divide to become microspores.
The female cone (megastrobilus, seed cone, or ovulate cone) contains ovules which, when fertilized by pollen, become seeds. The female cone structure varies more markedly between the different conifer families, and is often crucial for the identification of many species of conifers. Male cones of a pine A classic example of a Lebanese Cedar cone. Immature female pine cone Pollen cone of a Japanese Larch Pineapple gall on Sitka Spruce caused by Adelges abietis. Dozens of male cones (orange and flower-like) occur in a cluster; the female cone is still immature (olive green).
1 The female gametophyte remains inside the female megasporangium, which is surrounded by sporophyte integuments. 2  This structure is known as an ovule. 3  Eventually, after the ovum is fertilized and becomes a zygote, the ovule will become a seed. 4  The outer covering, the seed coat is derived from sporophyte tissue. The Gametophyte of the Anthophyte. You saw the cherry tree above. To see the gametophytes, we need to examine that structure unique to the Anthophytes, the flower. 1  The microsporophylls are the stamens, each tipped by the anther, which contains the diploid cells that will divide to become microspores.
The generalized cycle of the Alternation of Generations: 1  gametophyte-haploid plant that produces gametes via mitosis. 2  gamete-haploid ovum (female) or sperm (male). 3  gametangium-generic term for a multicellular plant sex organ. 4  It can be either... 5  archegonium-the female sex organ (analogous to the animal ovary). The male gametophyte. 1  is a pollen grain (right). 2  It has no antheridia, and produces only two sperm. 3  The pollen develop from microspores in microsporangia known as anthers (left). 4  The anthers are located just inside the petals in a complete flower (i.e., one that has sepals, petals, stamens, and pistils).
In gymnosperms (conifers) and angiosperms (flowering plants), the meeting of the gametes occurs in the following way: male gametes are enclosed in pollen grains and are carried by wind or insects to the female reproductive organs. The final product of fertilization--the embryo--is encased in a seed. Gymnosperm Fertilization. The female gametophyte contains several archegonia, where the egg cells originate and develop. The gametophyte itself is surrounded by layers of sporangia and integument; all of these elements comprise an ovule, which is found on the surface of a female cone.