The coastal and mountainous regions of central-western and southern Costa Rica experience a more varied climate where the average temperature is 81°F on the coast and 63°F in the mountains, with the average rainfall in the mountains almost doubling the amount along the coast. Costa Rica's hurricane season lasts from the beginning of June through the end of November, but luckily hurricanes rarely hit here. Monthly averages for temperature and precipitation are provided below. To view a list of Costa Rica resorts and obtain a price quote, click here.
Costa Rica climate is warm on the Caribbean coast and cool in the interior. Limon, also known as Puerto Limon, is the dominant western Caribbean cruise port for the country. The chart to the right shows that Limon maintains average high temperatures in the mid 80s Fahrenheit through the year. 
The Central Pacific enjoys the best climate in the country as the weather here has an average of 22 degrees Celsius or 72 degrees Fahrenheit and is tempered with a cool coastal breeze. In the highlands the temperature averages 13 degree Celsius, while in the lowlands or at sea level the temperature stays at around 26 degrees Celsius or 79 degrees Fahrenheit, with hot days and sultry evenings.
The Rainy or “Green” season in Costa Rica goes from May through November/December while the Dry or “High” Season goes from December through April. The average annual temperature throughout Costa Rica is about 70 to 80 degrees Fahrenheit. The cooler months of the year are November, December and January. March through May are the warmer months when one can expect to receive a lot of sunshine. The average rainfall in Costa Rica is about 95-100 inches; some mountainous areas can get as much as 25 feet of rainfall in a year.
In Costa Rica the average annual temperature is around 21 to 27 degrees Celsius or 70 to 81 degrees Fahrenheit and the coolest months of the year are November, December and January. The months March through May are the hottest months of the year, so make sure you protect yourself from the sun. In the highlands the temperature averages 13 degree Celsius, while in the lowlands or at sea level the temperature stays at around 26 degrees Celsius or 79 degrees Fahrenheit, with hot days and sultry evenings.
March is the hottest month in Tamarindo with an average temperature of 29°C (84°F) and the coldest is September at 26°C (79°F) with the most daily sunshine hours at 8 in April. The wettest month is September with an average of 359mm of rain. 
In Costa Rica the average annual temperature is around 21 to 27 degrees Celsius or 70 to 81 degrees Fahrenheit and the coolest months of the year are November, December and January. The months March through May are the hottest months of the year, so make sure you protect yourself from the sun. While the average rainfall in the country is around 100 inches, some mountainous areas get as much as 25 feet of rainfall on a yearly basis. Also remember to keep in mind as we mentioned before that Costa Rica s Caribbean coast is rather unique and has its own microclimate.
The average annual temperature is around 21 to 27 degrees Celsius (70 to 81 degrees Fahrenheit), with the coolest months being November, December, and January. Costa Rica has no distinct summer or winter period, which allows the country to enjoy an average of 12 hours of sunlight year-round. Average temperatures in the highlands are about 13 degrees Celsius, while in the lowlands it is approximately 26 degrees Celsius (79 degrees Fahrenheit). San Jose, in the central valley, enjoys the best weather with a moderate, temperate climate and average temperatures of 22 degrees Celsius (72
Although Costa Rica is a small country in terms of area, there is a lot going on here in terms of weather in Costa Rica. With a climate that is diverse and varied, Costa Rica can be divided into several climatic zones, each of which are distinct and individual. While the average rainfall in the country is around 100 inches, some mountainous areas get as much as 25 feet of rainfall on a yearly basis. Also remember to keep in mind as we mentioned before that Costa Rica s Caribbean coast is rather unique and has its own microclimate.