Create a network bridge connection. If you have a laptop computer with both wired and wireless network adapters, you can use your laptop to connect your Xbox 360 console to Xbox Live. This type of connection is called a network bridge connection. Can't obtain an IP address from your router or modem. Your DNS server can't resolve Xbox Live server names. 1  Press the Guide button on your controller, go to Settings, and then select System Settings. 2  Select Network Settings. 3  Select Wired Network if you are prompted to do so.
The Internet is a marvelous little resource, no doubt, but certainly no one needs it to live. Let's face it: most of the activities you do online can be done just as easily without a computer. Many people get by today without the Internet, whether for financial reasons or by choice. For those of you out there that can't contemplate how someone gets by without it, or if you're thinking of getting rid of your Internet access, here are some helpful alternatives
Of course we could all live without the internet, but it provides fast, easy access to information on almost any topic you care to name and makes it affordable for people from all over the world to communicate. What I can't find in books, I can find it on the internet. I suppose I could live without it but it would not be the same. Graham Powell, UK It is essential to work and home; as important, if not more so, than the telephone. Progress will hopefully allow it to become as ubiquitous and as easy to use.
There are also a bunch of different shops and libraries that offer free Internet. Libraries, at a university, college, or even a public library, usually have a bunch of different terminals to access the Internet. If your library had a recent overhaul, then you'll find new computers. Bookstores are also a good bet to find free Internet. Community centers are also a good idea.
If you're one of those that relies on the Internet for news, you can easily get your fix delivered right to your door every morning. Most towns publish their own newspaper, and the best part is that all the news is compiled and presented for you without any clicking or searching to be done. Let's face it: most of the activities you do online can be done just as easily without a computer. Many people get by today without the Internet, whether for financial reasons or by choice.
Yes you can live without internet the only thing you can't live without is food and water. Celiene Blackwell · 9 months ago. Thumbs up. 2. Thumbs down. 0. 1 comment. Loading ... 
Without the Internet, your life as you see it would be boring and empty. 10. During your daily routines, you often can’t stop thinking about the Internet. If you answered “yes” to five or more of the statements above, the article says there’s a chance that you may be more dependent on the Internet than is healthy. 
The Internet is a useful tool for communication through email and instant messaging, finding information and other resources and for just killing free time. When you find yourself without Internet access for one reason or another you're not sure you'll survive without it. If you don't have Internet access in your home, don't panic. There are a number of survival strategies to help you live without it. Read on to learn how to live without Internet access. 