If you suffer from dark circles under the eyes then you know how frustrating they can be. They make you look older than your age, and people constantly tell you that you look tired (even if you just woke up from 12 hours of sleep). I myself suffer from this, as you can see in this pic: 1 Other cause is (what else) aging: As we age the sensitive skin under our eyes gets thinner, we also lose some fat in this area which gives it volume. 2  The result is a depressed area that casts a shadow. 3  Dark circles sometimes look worse because dark (usually blue) veins start to show through the half transparent skin.
No you cannot due to a risk of eyeball injury. When you put your finger under your eye, you'll feel a bone. Do not roll closer to your eye than where that bone is. When you roll under the eyes, pull/stretch your skin downwards from the eye with your other hand and roll it with the other. Do not roll/needle inside the red area. Thank you kakalakingma and SarahVaughter for your help and advice, I really appreciate it. If I roll my eyes I will be sure to pull the skin down. Also a friend of mine would like to roll her eyes (and face) too-she has more lines all around the eye area, so this advice will come in very handy, thank you.
I'm currently using dermaroller .5mm with Vitamin C 15%, CP*ghk*, avocado oil, pure Aloe Vera gel and rose hip oil. Shortly i order the Super cop 2x or Night Eyes once i use all of the ghk. I recently just started doing the gua sha massage *scraping* using a cold spoon for my eye bags. 
http://forums.owndoc.com/dermarolling-microneedling/can-i-use-a-dermaroller-on-this-area-under-the-eye-(pic-included)/. Logged. I am not a medical doctor and my comments should not be considered medical advice. I'm plagued by dark circles, and several months ago started using a particular eye cream (not sure if I can mention the name) on my right eye to treat them. Over about four months, the circle under my right eye has faded noticeably.
And this means I can use it with a derma roller, which is exactly what I'm going to do. As I said before, I was advised not to use a derma roller with needles longer than 0.2mm, so I am going to use 0.2mm and roll very gently in this area before I apply the serum. Honestly, I am not expecting any miracles ... 1 Other cause is (what else) aging: As we age the sensitive skin under our eyes gets thinner, we also lose some fat in this area which gives it volume. 2  The result is a depressed area that casts a shadow. 3  Dark circles sometimes look worse because dark (usually blue) veins start to show through the half transparent skin.
Looking young, fit and healthy is something we all hope for. By using a Dermaroller to reduce the appearance of fine lines and wrinkles, the secret of looking great can be unlocked. There’s no need for expensive products, procedures, or surgery as using a dermaroller just a few nights a week can create a major impact on how you look. 
1.0 mm Eye MT Dermaroller is safe for being used once a month before applying any functional skin care products. This needle size is long enough to reach the lower layers of the skin and trigger new collagen building in skin. Eye dermaroller may also be used for isolated scars & deep acne scars on cheeks & wrinkles on the forehead. 1.0 mm Eye MT Dermaroller has fine medical grade stainless steel needles & is pre-sterilized in factory. Perfectly ready for a quick microneedling session when received.
Best wishes. PS: best way to get your answer sometimes is doing a search on the forum to see if your questions have been answer already. However, I don't blame you this time if you cannot find any results when you search eyes or derma rolling under eyes-- I didn't get any. Thank you kakalakingma and SarahVaughter for your help and advice, I really appreciate it. If I roll my eyes I will be sure to pull the skin down. Also a friend of mine would like to roll her eyes (and face) too-she has more lines all around the eye area, so this advice will come in very handy, thank you.
1.0 mm Eye MT Dermaroller is a home use microneedling device for improving the absorption of applied skin care products & triggering new collagen synthesis in skin. This dermaroller has special narrow rolling head, which makes it perfect to be used in harder to reach areas like around the eyes, nose & lips. Eye dermaroller may also be used for isolated scars & deep acne scars on cheeks & wrinkles on the forehead. 1.0 mm Eye MT Dermaroller has fine medical grade stainless steel needles & is pre-sterilized in factory. Perfectly ready for a quick microneedling session when received.