The University of Kansas is a major educational and research institution with some 28,000 students and more than 1,900 faculty members who are dedicated to serving the State of Kansas, the nation, and their respective disciplines. Paleontology at The University of Kansas is studied primarily in the departments of Geology and Ecology & Evolutionary Biology, but some research is also underway in the department of Anthropology.
The University also has a joint agreement with Kansas State University in Manhattan, Kansas, whereby faculty members in the KSU Department of Geology can direct the doctoral dissertation research of geology students at KU. Paleontology at The University of Kansas includes several diverse thematic areas. Paleontology at The University of Kansas is studied primarily in the departments of Geology and Ecology & Evolutionary Biology, but some research is also underway in the department of Anthropology.
The University of Kansas (KU) is a public research university and the largest in the U.S. state of Kansas. There are also educational and research sites in Parsons and Topeka, and branches of the University of Kansas School of Medicine in Wichita and Salina. The university is one of the 62 members of the Association of American Universities.
Student Life. University of Kansas has a total undergraduate enrollment of 19,343, with a gender distribution of 50.1 percent male students and 49.9 percent female students. At this school, 25 percent of the students live in college-owned, -operated, or-affiliated housing and 75 percent of students live off campus. Summary. University of Kansas is a public institution that was founded in 1865. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 19,343, its setting is urban, and the campus size is 1,000 acres. It utilizes a semester-based academic calendar. University of Kansas's ranking in the 2016 edition of Best Colleges is National Universities, 115
The University Honors Program is nationally recognized, and KU has produced 26 Rhodes Scholars, more than all other Kansas schools combined. The University of Kansas Cancer Center is the state's only designated National Cancer Institute. Another was to establish a university. Nearly 150 years later, KU has become a major public research and teaching institution of 28,000 students and 2,600 faculty on five campuses (Lawrence, Kansas City, Overland Park, Wichita, and Salina).
The University of Kansas is committed to providing programs and activities to all persons, regardless of race, religion, color, sex, disability, national origin, ancestry, sexual orientation, marital or parental status, and, to the extent covered by law, age or veteran status. Paleontology at The University of Kansas is studied primarily in the departments of Geology and Ecology & Evolutionary Biology, but some research is also underway in the department of Anthropology.
The University of Kansas School of Law was the top law school in the state of Kansas, and 68th nationally, according to the 2014 U.S. News & World Report Best Graduate Schools edition. Classes are held in Green Hall at W 15th St and Burdick Dr, which is named after former dean James Green. There are also educational and research sites in Parsons and Topeka, and branches of the University of Kansas School of Medicine in Wichita and Salina. The university is one of the 62 members of the Association of American Universities.
Since its founding, the University of Kansas has embodied the aspirations and determination of the abolitionists who settled on the curve of the Kaw River in August 1854. Their first goal was to ensure that the new Kansas Territory entered the union as a free state. Another was to establish a university. Nearly 150 years later, KU has become a major public research and teaching institution of 28,000 students and 2,600 faculty on five campuses (Lawrence, Kansas City, Overland Park, Wichita, and Salina).
Academics. With 43 doctoral programs, including 4 educational doctoral programs, 71 master’s programs, 39 graduate certificates and a variety of emphasis areas, Kansas State University offers preparation for a variety of scholarly and research careers as well as for a wide range of professional positions. 