Get away to “no snow” in winter at Lighthouse Inn’s beach vacation and the quiet of a Georgia vacation on the island’s seashore — sunrise, sunset, sand, surf, sea gulls, shrimp and seafood. Sleep is magical at our historic inn near the Atlantic Ocean shore and in the shadow of the historic Tybee Lighthouse.
Tybee Island Vacation Packages. Tybee Island is a popular place for visitors to explore while in Savannah, United States of America, a city with a population of 140,000 people.
1 “ Tybee Island was a wonderful find! “. “ 2  Winter is the best time to see shorebirds who migrate from the Arctic tundra to spend the fall and winter on Tybee’s beach,” advises Mallory Pearce on Tybee Island Online.
Little Tybee Island is accessible only by boat or kayak. For those that want to be able to go onto Tybee Island to get supplies, shop around and get lunch or dinner, renting a kayak is the way to go. Simply park your car, pack your gear into the kayak, and paddle out to the island.
Camp Out on Little Tybee Island! Tybee is a great spot to take the family, some friends, or just yourself on a getaway. Though sometimes, even in April and May, the crowds can get heavy.
Tybee Island Vacation Packages. Tybee Island, also known as Savannah Beach, has a laid-back Southern charm and entices visitors with its beach life, fresh seafood and heritage sites. Tybee Island is a barrier island and city situated 18 miles (29 kilometers) east of Savannah, Georgia. It’s the closest beach resort to Atlanta and connected to the mainland by the Islands Expressway. The original inhabitants of the island were the Native American Euchee tribe.
Tybee Island, Georgia, in “Top Beach Towns for the Winter” by Yahoo! Travel, Sylvia Cochran, October 2011. When Ben Affleck was filming in the Savannah area, North Beach Grill was a popular place to spot this handsome celebrity and his red Porsche.
Tybee Island is the perfect place to stay while you are in Savannah as many of the city’s most popular attractions are within easy reach. Two sights that should be at the top of every visitor’s itinerary is the wonderful Tybee Island Beach and the iconic Tybee Island Marine Science Center.