The orange-bellied parrot was listed as critically endangered in 2005. It is the only Neophema parrot species to be listed as such under Australia's Environment Protection and Biodiversity Conservation Act. The kakapo (Strigops habroptila) is critically endangered. The orange-bellied parrot (Neophema chrysogaster) is a bird native to parts of Australia. The orange-bellied parrot is critically endangered--BirdLife.org estimates that there are only 49 mature adults in the population. Due to a number of factors, mostly habitat destruction and introduced bird species competing for food, the orange-bellied parrots’ numbers have dropped rapidly
Loading ... If not the most, Orange-bellied parrot is one of the most endangered bird on the planet now. Experts predict extinction of the species in next 3 to 5 years. The Orange-bellied Parrot is a small parrot species, around 20-25 cm in length and 45-50 grams in weight. The adult male has two-tone blue frontal band, green-blue uppertail with yellow sides and prominent orange patch on belly. The under wing-coverts and flight feathers have royal blue leading edge
One of only three migratory parrot species in the world, the Orange-bellied Parrot, Neophema chrysogaster, migrates annually from Tasmania to south-eastern Australia every winter. However, Orange-bellied Parrots are critically endangered and at risk of extinction in the next 3-5 years unless urgent action is taken. Zoos Victoria plays a key role in the recovery of this species by maintaining a genetically viable captive population at Healesville Sanctuary. Orange-bellied Parrot. Orange-bellied Parrots have a clutch size of 4-6 eggs and chicks usually fledge between 5-6 weeks. Photo: Chris Tzaros. Individuals flly over Bass Strait to feed on salt marsh around the south east coast of the mainland.
Current status. The Orange-bellied parrot (Neophema chrysogaster) is listed as endangered under the Tasmanian Threatened Species Protection Act 1995. It is also listed as endangered under the Federal Act and has the dubious honour of being one of the most endangered birds species in Australia
Passionate about all things Australian. The orange-bellied parrot has become critically endangered, as of recent years. Found only in limited areas of southern Australia, their habitat is salt marshes, coastal dunes, pastures, shrub lands, estuaries, islands, beaches and moorlands within 10 km of the coast. The orange-bellied parrot is found only in the far southwest of Tasmania, Australia's island state, although it migrates to coastal Victoria and South Australia after the bree … ding season.
The orange-bellied parrot (Neophema chrysogaster) is a small broad-tailed parrot endemic to southern Australia, and one of only two species of parrot that migrate. It was described by Latham in 1790. A small parrot around 20 cm (8 in) long, it exhibits sexual dimorphism. Female. The orange-bellied parrot is a small parrot around 20 cm (8 in) long; the adult male has bright green upperparts, and yellow below, a green-blue uppertail with yellow sides, and an orange patch on its belly.
The Orange-bellied parrot is endangered because it is so rare and its habitat is quickly disappearing. It is a breeding endemic of Tasmania, which means that it only breeds in Tasmania. In fact it only breeds in one place in Tasmania and that is in our Southwest National Park. The Orange-bellied parrot (Neophema chrysogaster) is listed as endangered under the Tasmanian Threatened Species Protection Act 1995. It is also listed as endangered under the Federal Act and has the dubious honour of being one of the most endangered birds species in Australia