PMIs PMP certification is valid for a period of three years. This page explains what is required to renew your hard-earned PMP credentials. PMP certification is extremely respected credential in the industry. The article explains how to extend your certification for another three years. After 60 PDUs have been earned in a three year period, the PMP can then apply for renewing the PMP certificate for a three year period. The renewal fee is $60 for PMI members and $150 for non-members. For a small number of randomly selected cases, PMI may request for an audit to verify the information provided during PDU request
If an individual is unable to provide proof of 60 PDUs in the three year period, her certification will be suspended for a period of one year. In the above example if Joe does not provide evidence of 60 PDUs till July 1st, 2010, his certification will be suspended for a period of one year till July 1st, 2011. After 60 PDUs have been earned in a three year period, the PMP can then apply for renewing the PMP certificate for a three year period. The renewal fee is $60 for PMI members and $150 for non-members. For a small number of randomly selected cases, PMI may request for an audit to verify the information provided during PDU requests
Search... Paying the fee alone will not renew your certification, you also have to report 60 PDUs (Professional Development Units = hours) every three years to maintain your PMP certification. 
Student Membership Qualifications. Membership is available to students currently enrolled in an interior design program with at least 40 credit hours or 60 quarter credit hours of interior design coursework to graduate.
0. votes. PMI has 3 levels of membership (May 2010 numbers): - Individual Member: $129 first year, $119 renewal fee. This is for any active project manager who wants to become a PMI member-Student Member: $40 first year, $30 renewal fee. This is for someone who wants to become a project manager, but is currently not. - Retiree Member: $60/year. 
Search... When you pay the annual fee of $129 to join PMI, and then decide to apply for the PMP exam, instead of paying $555 to take the PMP exam, you will only pay $405. That is a good amount of money saved! Another related piece of information, the annual renewal fee is $119. It is $129 for new members
The renewal fee is $60 for members and $150 for non-members. You may want to be sure to download the PMP Certification Handbook containing these details from http://www.pmi.org/en/Certification/~/media/PDF/Certifications/pdc_pmphandbook.ashx. answered 3 years ago by sdcapmp (45,840 points). votes. I want to renew my PMP certification (I think it's really annoying that PMI forces us to renew our certification every 3 years) and I want to know how much it costs.
1 Attain and report to PMI a minimum of 60 PDUs during each three year cycle. 2  This three year cycle is called CCR cycle. 3  Complete an application for certification renewal and submit the fees. 4  Reaffirm the PMP Code of Professional Conduct. After 60 PDUs have been earned in a three year period, the PMP can then apply for renewing the PMP certificate for a three year period. The renewal fee is $60 for PMI members and $150 for non-members. For a small number of randomly selected cases, PMI may request for an audit to verify the information provided during PDU requests
Description: If you are currently enrolled as a full time student in an undergraduate or graduate degree program from an accredited or globally equivalent college or university, you may join PMI as a student member. Your membership publications will be delivered electronically to your email box. This membership offer does not include print publications sent to you via postal mail. Take advantage of member benefits immediately and join a Chapter at a discount when available. NOTE: Additional fee required for chapters; view chart.