Unchecky.exe is part of Unchecky and developed by RaMMicHaeL according to the Unchecky.exe version information. Unchecky.exe's description is  Unchecky . Unchecky.exe is digitally signed by Michael Maltsev. Unchecky.exe is usually located in the 'c:\Program Files (x86)\Unchecky\' folder. None of the anti-virus scanners at VirusTotal reports anything malicious about Unchecky.exe. If you have additional information about the file, please share it with the FreeFixer users by posting a comment at the bottom of this page.
Unchecky program is developed by the company named RaMMicHaeL. The official website of the developer is unchecky.com. Normally the program size is around 1.12 MB. The default installation directory of the program is C:\Program Files\unchecky\unchecky.exe. The default uninstaller of the program is C:\Program Files\Unchecky\Uninstall.exe . 1 Find out where Unchecky is in the program list. 2  Right click on the program name, click Uninstall option to activate the default uninstaller. 3  Follow the instruction to proceed. 4  Restart your PC after the process finished.
Rating: 5 (40 votes). Unchecky aims to keep potentially unwanted programs out of your computer. Its primary feature is automatic unchecking of unrelated offers, such as potentially unwanted programs, offers to change your homepage or your search engine. 
For a competent computer geek, Unchecky is probably not really necessary. However, if you find yourself skimming through installations and ending up with coupon offers you don’t remember asking for, it may be a good idea to install Unchecky. This is probably the easiest program in the world to install. Head over to unchecky.com and click on the big button that says download. Run the file, click install, click finish, and you’re done! Since Unchecky is mostly meant for novice users, its simple installation process is well-suited.
Installing Unchecky. This is probably the easiest program in the world to install. Head over to unchecky.com and click on the big button that says download. Run the file, click install, click finish, and you’re done! Since Unchecky is mostly meant for novice users, its simple installation process is well-suited.
Unchecky is a lightweight application that aims to “keep your checkboxes clear.” It automatically unchecks the boxes that allow companies to install promotional crapware on your computer, and issues warnings if you accidentally agree to install something you may not want. This is probably the easiest program in the world to install. Head over to unchecky.com and click on the big button that says download. Run the file, click install, click finish, and you’re done! Since Unchecky is mostly meant for novice users, its simple installation process is well-suited.
Unchecky v0.1.10 is a program developed by RaMMicHaeL. The main program executable is unchecky.exe. The software installer includes 4 files and is usually about 1.12 MB (1,175,024 bytes). In comparison to the total number of users, most PCs are running the OS Windows 7 (SP1) as well as Windows 8. 1 Windows XP: Click Add or Remove Programs. 2  When you find the program Unchecky v0.1.10, click it, and then do one of the following: 3  Windows Vista/7/8: Click Uninstall. 4  Windows XP: Click the Remove or Change/Remove tab (to the right of the program). 5  Follow the prompts.
With Unchecky, you do not need to do anything. Just install it on your computer and it will do the rest of the work: every time you install a program that comes with a bundled software, this tool will automatically unchecks those unrelated (and possibly unwanted) offers. 
How to Avoid Junkware Offers with Unchecky. You recommend a program to a family member, and they proceed to install it along with five other junkware programs that sneak their way on to their computer in the installation process. This is probably the easiest program in the world to install. Head over to unchecky.com and click on the big button that says download. Run the file, click install, click finish, and you’re done! Since Unchecky is mostly meant for novice users, its simple installation process is well-suited.
From Reason Software: Keep your checkboxes clear. Unchecky aims to keep potentially unwanted programs out of your computer. Unchecky automatically unchecks unrelated offers during the installation process, both saving you mouse clicks and making it less likely to miss a checkbox of an unwanted offer. What's new in this version: 1  Vietnamese translation, by thanhtai2009. 2  Bug fixes and stability improvements.