An allele frequency is calculated by dividing the number of times the allele of interest is observed in a population by the total number of copies of all the alleles at that particular genetic locus in the population. Allele frequencies can be represented as a decimal, a percentage, or a fraction. In a population, allele frequencies are a reflection of genetic diversity. Changes in allele frequencies over time can indicate that genetic drift is occurring or that new mutations have been introduced into
allele frequency. A term used in population genetics for the number of copies of a particular allele divided by the number of copies of all alleles at that specific genetic locus in a population of interest. Allele frequency is a measure of a population’s genetic diversity: the higher the allele frequency, the greater the population’s consanguinity.
(April 2014). Allele frequency, or gene frequency, is the relative frequency of an allele (variant of a gene) at a particular locus in a population, expressed as a fraction or percentage. Specifically, it is the fraction of all chromosomes in the population that carry that allele. Given the following: In population genetics, allele frequencies are used to describe the amount of variation at a particular locus or across multiple loci. When considering the ensemble of allele frequencies for a large number of distinct loci, their distribution is called the allele frequency spectrum.
allele frequency. The allele frequency represents the incidence of a gene variant in a population. Alleles are variant forms of a gene that are located at the same position, or genetic locus, on a chromosome. In a population, allele frequencies are a reflection of genetic diversity. Changes in allele frequencies over time can indicate that genetic drift is occurring or that new mutations have been introduced into the
The allele frequency is distinct from the genotype frequency, although they are related, and allele frequencies can be calculated from genotype frequencies. In population genetics, allele frequencies are used to describe the amount of variation at a particular locus or across multiple loci. When considering the ensemble of allele frequencies for a large number of distinct loci, their distribution is called the allele frequency spectrum.
Often called gene frequency. A measure of how common an allele is in a population; the proportion of all alleles at one gene locus that are of one specific type in a population. A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z. 
Allele frequency, or gene frequency, is the relative frequency of an allele (variant of a gene) at a particular locus in a population, expressed as a fraction or percentage. Specifically, it is the fraction of all chromosomes in the population that carry that allele. In population genetics, allele frequencies are used to describe the amount of variation at a particular locus or across multiple loci. When considering the ensemble of allele frequencies for a large number of distinct loci, their distribution is called the allele frequency spectrum.
Allele frequency. Allele frequency, or gene frequency, is the proportion of a particular allele among all allele copies being considered. Formal definition: Allele or gene frequency is the percentage of all alleles at a given locus in a population gene pool represented by a particular allele. It is usually expressed as a percentage. In population genetics, allele frequencies are used to depict the amount of genetic diversity at the individual, population, and species level. It is also the relative proportion of all alleles of a gene that are of a designated type.
Genetic drift (or allelic drift) is the change in the frequency of a gene variant (allele) in a population due to random sampling of organisms. The alleles in the offspring are a sample of those in the parents, and chance has a role in determining whether a given individual survives and reproduces. A population's allele frequency is the fraction of the copies of one gene that share a particular form.
allele frequency. A term used in population genetics for the number of copies of a particular allele divided by the number of copies of all alleles at that specific genetic locus in a population of interest.