CORVALLIS, Ore. - Raccoons are wonderful animals to watch, but can be a real pain in the garden. They dig in vegetable beds, eat fruit off trees and vines, knock down corn and break into bird feeders. Knowing a little bit about the life and habits of this gregarious animal can help you protect your landscaping and produce from these masked marauders.
This will prevent raccoons from hanging around the yard and night even when they cannot climb into the tree. Because raccoons also eat bugs and snails that may be feeding on fallen oranges, cleaning up the fallen fruit will remove the snails, slugs, and bugs that may attract raccoons to your yard. Prevent the raccoons from climbing into the tree by trimming any limbs that are within 3 feet of a fence, roof or other surface where a raccoon could reach a limb. Also wrap metal around the tree trunk to prevent them from climbing up the trunk.
The diet of the raccoon is extremely diverse. They will eat fruit, berries, grain, eggs, poultry, vegetables, nuts, mollusks, fish, insects, rodents, carrion, pet food and garbage. Individual animals may learn to use specialized foods such as poultry, fruit crops, small livestock, or garbage by watching other raccoons.
In addition to garbage cans, raccoons are notorious for their love of sweet corn. These omnivores will also eat strawberries, tree fruits, peas, potatoes, melons and grubs found in your lawn. They will dig holes in maturing melons and munch on ripening tree fruit. 
Nocturnal by nature, raccoons often go about the business of searching for food late evening, night and early morning. They are omnivores, meaning they eat a wide variety of foods, from fruit, vegetables, eggs and birds to insects, carrion, fish and other aquatic animals, pet food and garbage. They dig in vegetable beds, eat fruit off trees and vines, knock down corn and break into bird feeders. Knowing a little bit about the life and habits of this gregarious animal can help you protect your landscaping and produce from these masked marauders.
Raccoons are capable of climbing fruit trees when the bark is left unprotected. The developing fruit on your fruit tree make a tasty meal for hungry raccoons, no matter how much you would like to keep the fruit for yourself. These sneaky scavengers can easily climb trees to access the fruit, with the rough texture of tree trunks making it easy for the raccoons to gain traction
1 Raccoons will eat almost anything, but are particularly fond of creatures found in water—clams, crayfish, frogs, fish, and snails. 2  Raccoons also eat insects, slugs, dead animals, birds and bird eggs, as well as fruits, vegetables, nuts, and seeds. Around humans, raccoons often eat garbage and pet food. Although not great hunters, raccoons can catch young gophers, squirrels, mice, and rats. Raccoons will eat poultry and their eggs if they can get to them. Signs of raccoon predation include the birds’ heads bitten off and left some distance away, only the bird’s crop being eaten, stuck birds pulled half-way through a fence, and nests in severe disarray.
Food and Feeding Habitats. 1  Raccoons will eat almost anything, but are particularly fond of creatures found in water—clams, crayfish, frogs, fish, and snails. 2  Raccoons also eat insects, slugs, dead animals, birds and bird eggs, as well as fruits, vegetables, nuts, and seeds. Around humans, raccoons often eat garbage and pet food. Although not great hunters, raccoons can catch young gophers, squirrels, mice, and rats. Raccoons will eat poultry and their eggs if they can get to them. Signs of raccoon predation include the birds’ heads bitten off and left some distance away, only the bird’s crop being eaten, stuck birds pulled half-way through a fence, and nests in severe disarray.
Raccoons are easily identified by the black mask on the face and a bushy tail with four to six black rings. Raccoons den in hollow trees, fissures in rocks, caves, or burrows (usually old fox, woodchuck or skunk burrow). They almost always live near water. They will also move into a muskrat house. Raccoons are omnivorous and eat almost anything, including: nuts, berries, acorns, leaves, grasshoppers, crickets, grubs, worms, dragonfly larvae, clams, wasps, salamanders, frogs, crayfish, snakes, turtles and their eggs, bird eggs and nestlings, fish, voles, and squirrels. 