In the US, associate’s degrees are available at various types of college, including community colleges, junior colleges and technical colleges, affiliated colleges of universities and university institutes. It typically takes two years full-time to complete an associate’s degree. For some students, an associate’s degree provides preparation for a bachelor’s degree, while for others it’s a qualification in its own right, helping to improve employment prospects compared to only having completed a secondary-level education.
No matter your long-term goal, going for an associates now can be a great first step. Besides earning your associate degree first gives you a sense of accomplishment and a diploma to hang while you continue toward earning your bachelor's degree. When starting out on your path to a college degree you'll need to choose whether to go for an associate degree or a bachelor's degree. 
An associate degree is an undergraduate academic degree awarded by community colleges, junior colleges, technical colleges, bachelor's degree –granting colleges, and universities upon completion of a course of study usually lasting two years. Time requirements [edit]. An associate degree is awarded to students who complete 90 quarter credit hours or 60 semester credit hours of schooling. Typically, on a full-time schedule, this requires two years to complete.
An associate of bachelor administration degree is a low-level undergraduate degree awarded to students who have completed a post-secondary program with a focus on business administration. Business administration is the study of managing business operations and processes. Most associate degree programs in business administration take two years to complete. However, there are some schools that offer 18-month programs. Students who are also interested in a bachelor's degree can find three-year programs that combine associate's level and bachelor's level courses.
Career Options with an Associate's Degree. What you can do with an associate's degree is dependent upon your major. For example, if you get an associate's degree in cosmetology, then you can pursue careers like hairstylist, nail technician or salon worker. Take a look at three popular fields for associate's degrees: computer science, healthcare and general studies. Computer Science Careers. With an associate's degree in computer science, you can major in several specialty fields that can guide your computer science career in different directions. A popular career in computer science is computer support specialist.
An associate degree is a type of undergraduate degree requiring a minimum of 60 semester credits/units (for our purposes the terms credits and units are used interchangeably). The traditional AA/AS Degree program consists of three parts: general education requirements, major requirements, and electives. 
Someone who earns an associate degree has usually completed about 60 college credits, the equivalent of two years of coursework. In order to earn one, students must typically complete general education courses, core classes required for the college major, and electives. People who choose to earn a two-year degree do so for various reasons. For example, students who do not wish to pursue a four-year bachelor's degree often prefer the shorter length of an associate program.
Programs of Study ». The Associate of Science (AS) program is an academic transfer degree designed for students who will ultimately be pursuing a Bachelor of Science degree at a four-year college/university. At LSCS, the AS degree is a generalized degree that will not list a specific major but will be called Associate of Science. 
You can get an associate degree and start working if you want to. For example you can work in the nursing field, or as a technician in a laboratory, or in a variety of other fields. You can always transfer your units to a four year college if you wish to continue with your education. People who choose to earn a two-year degree do so for various reasons. For example, students who do not wish to pursue a four-year bachelor's degree often prefer the shorter length of an associate program.