Other languages spoken. 1  Haitian Creole – a Creole language spoken by close to 160,000 of the 1,000,000 Haitian immigrants living in the frontier area of the Dominican Republic as a result of Haitian Diaspora. 2  The language has influences from French, Spanish and West African Languages. The Island of Hispaniola, where the Dominican Republic is located, was the first island to be inhabited by the Spanish. Santo Domingo is the oldest European city in the New World.
The population of the Dominican Republic is entirely  Spanish-speaking; Schools are based on a Spanish educational model,  with English being taught as a secondary language … in most private  schools, it is also being taught in public school as well. The 1 official language of the Democratic Republic of the Congo is French. (FYI, french is also the official language of the Republic of the Congo). Here is a list of all 217 … languages spoken in the Democratic Republic of the Congo: 1. Alur 2.
Dominican Spanish is Spanish as spoken in the Dominican Republic, a Caribbean country, and throughout the Dominican diaspora, which is found mostly in the United States, chiefly in New York City, Boston, and Miami. 
English and Haitian Creole by far the highest (Note: Haitian Creo … le is only spoken by Haitians living in the Dominican Republic). Other languages spoken in the Dominican Republic are, East Caribbean English Creole and Arabic. The 1 official language of the Democratic Republic of the Congo is French. (FYI, french is also the official language of the Republic of the Congo). Here is a list of all 217 … languages spoken in the Democratic Republic of the Congo: 1. Alur 2.
As a result, it is no surprise that the official language of this region remains Spanish. Visitors will find that inhabitants of the Dominican Republic who are not in the tourism and service industries very rarely speak English. Spanish is the predominant language in the Dominican Republic. Photo credit: © jjoiv. The official language of the Dominican Republic is Spanish and in some areas of the country, this is the only language that will be spoken. In tourist areas or industries there are usually staff members that speak at least some
The official language in the Dominican Republic is Spanish. Most people involved in tourism understand and speak at least some English, if not other major tourism-related languages, such as German and French. Learning to speak Spanish is not necessary to visit the Dominican Republic, but learning a few words and phrases will definitely make one's visit more enjoyable. The Dominican people are sure to be pleased with any effort made to try and speak their language and are helpful with correct pronunciation and learning more.
Confidence votes 101. Spanish is virtually the only language spoken in the Dominican republic, although English is widely taught in schools as a second language. There is a community of about 8,000 speakers of Samana Samaná english in The Samana, samaná peninsula and there is a small Community of haitians Who Speak. haitian creole The 1 official language of the Democratic Republic of the Congo is French. (FYI, french is also the official language of the Republic of the Congo). Here is a list of all 217 … languages spoken in the Democratic Republic of the Congo: 1. Alur 2.
Home Country Guides Dominican Republic. The official language is Spanish although there is a Dominican dialect which has some different words from mainland Spain, such as guapo in Spanish means handsome, but in Dominican Spanish means angry. In addition the spoken Dominican Spanish takes some getting used to as of the letter ‘s’ are dropped.
1 Haitian Creole – a Creole language spoken by close to 160,000 of the 1,000,000 Haitian immigrants living in the frontier area of the Dominican Republic as a result of Haitian Diaspora. 2  The language has influences from French, Spanish and West African Languages. The Island of Hispaniola, where the Dominican Republic is located, was the first island to be inhabited by the Spanish. Santo Domingo is the oldest European city in the New World.