Alcohol and Chlorzoxazone 500mg Tablet(Chlorzoxazone). Close. Alcohol and CNS Depressants(Chlorzoxazone). Avoid alcohol-containing drinks while taking this medicine. Using this drug along with alcohol can lead to serious side effects. You may feel drowsy or more tired when taking these drugs together.
Before using chlorzoxazone, tell your doctor if you regularly use other medicines that make you sleepy (such as cold or allergy medicine, sedatives, narcotic pain medicine, sleeping pills, muscle relaxers, and medicine for seizures, depression, or anxiety). They can add to sleepiness caused by chlorzoxazone.
1 tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to chlorzoxazone or any other medications. 2  tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications you are taking, especially sedatives, sleeping pills, tranquilizers, and vitamins. 3  tell your doctor if you have or have ever had liver disease.
Before taking chlorzoxazone, 1  tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to chlorzoxazone or any other medications. 2  tell your doctor and pharmacist what prescription and nonprescription medications you are taking, especially sedatives, sleeping pills, tranquilizers, and vitamins.
Chlorzoxazone is a muscle relaxer. It works by blocking nerve impulses (or pain sensations) that are sent to your brain. Chlorzoxazone is used together with rest and physical therapy to treat skeletal muscle conditions such as pain or injury. Chlorzoxazone may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide. Before taking chlorzoxazone, tell your doctor if you have liver disease. You may need a lower dose or special monitoring during therapy. This medication may impair your thinking or reactions.
Parafon Forte (chlorzoxazone) is a muscle relaxant prescribed to treat musculoskeletal pain or injury. It is usually used in conjunction with rest and physical therapy. Parafon Forte is available in generic form.
Before using chlorzoxazone, tell your doctor if you regularly use other medicines that make you sleepy (such as cold or allergy medicine, sedatives, narcotic pain medicine, sleeping pills, muscle relaxers, and medicine for seizures, depression, or anxiety).