Dysphagia is a term that means difficulty swallowing.. It is the inability of food or liquids to pass easily from the mouth, into the throat, and down into the esophagus to the stomach during the process of swallowing. Food enters the pharynx (throat). A flap called the epiglottis closes off the passage to the windpipe so food cannot get into the lungs. Next, the muscles in the throat relax, and food and liquid are quickly passed down the pharynx (throat) into the esophagus. The epiglottis opens again to allow for breathing.
Dear Reader, The uvula (more commonly known as the little thing that hangs in the back of your throat) is made of muscle and connective tissue and is covered with the same mucous membrane that lines the inside of your cheeks and the roof of your mouth. Many things can cause a swollen uvula. The usual suspects include: 1  Tonsillitis. 
What is the thing in the back of your throat called? It is called your Adams apple I think you mean the uvula, which hangs down at the top of the back of your throat, whereas the Adam's apple is at the front.
It contains the pharynx and larynx. An important section of it is the epiglottis, which is a flap separating the esophagus from the trachea (windpipe) preventing food and drink being inhaled into the lungs. 
Pharyngeal stage. Food enters the pharynx (throat). A flap called the epiglottis closes off the passage to the windpipe so food cannot get into the lungs. Next, the muscles in the throat relax, and food and liquid are quickly passed down the pharynx (throat) into the esophagus. The epiglottis opens again to allow for breathing.
Experienced User. There is a flap in your throat that closes off access to your lungs when you swallow preventing food and fluid from going into your lungs. Maybe that is what you are feeling. 
The Uvula. The uvula is the small flap of tissue which hangs down at the back of your throat. The uvula is composed of muscle fibers as well as connective and glandular tissues. Like other soft tissue structures in the mouth, the uvula is covered by oral mucosa.
The epiglottis is a leaf-shaped flap of cartilage tissue that lies just behind the root of your tongue. When you swallow, your epiglottis covers your larynx (voicebox) stopping food from entering your trachea (windpipe. Your larynx is in the front of your neck above your trachea. It contains your vocal cords and also allows air to pass from your mouth into your trachea, and from there to your lungs. 0. 5. Epiglottitis is the term used to describe inflammation and swelling of the epiglottis which lies just behind the root of your tongue. It is usually caused by a viral or bacterial infection.
Gnomon. 1 vote Vote for this answer. The epiglottis is a flap in the back of your throat which covers your windpipe while you are swallowing to prevent food or drink going down into your lungs. It is not visible when you look into your mouth. The uvula is the dangling thing which hangs down at the back of the roof of your mouth
The closest thing to a flap separating the airway and esophagus is the larynx http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Larynx, disease of which can also cause dysphagia. Ear, nose and throat doctors specialize in this region. 