Benefiber is made from wheat dextrin, which is a natural soluble fiber produced by breaking down the starches found in wheat. Like soluble fiber obtained from whole foods, wheat dextrin helps you feel full, so it can help you eat less. A typical serving of Benefiber provides about 3 grams of soluble fiber. In the large intestine, some wheat dextrin is fermented by bacteria, which produces energy and supports the growth of good bacteria. As a result, Benefiber may be more tolerable than other fiber supplements. Some types of soluble fiber, such as wheat dextrin, have a laxative effect. Benefiber is a bulk-forming laxative because wheat dextrin absorbs water as it travels through your digestive tract, and the extra water creates larger, softer stool. When stool bulk increases, it stimulates muscles in the intestine to contract, which pushes waste out
Benefiber is an over-the-counter fiber supplement made by Novartis that may help bridge the gap. It works as a laxative and can boost daily fiber consumption, but it can also have some drawbacks if taken incorrectly -- talk to your health care provider before taking fiber supplements to be sure they're safe for you. As a result, Benefiber may be more tolerable than other fiber supplements. Some types of soluble fiber, such as wheat dextrin, have a laxative effect. Benefiber is a bulk-forming laxative because wheat dextrin absorbs water as it travels through your digestive tract, and the extra water creates larger, softer stool. When stool bulk increases, it stimulates muscles in the intestine to contract, which pushes waste out
Wheat Watch: Benefiber. By Dr. Davis |. Popular fiber supplement, Benefiber, produced by pharmaceutical company, Novartis, is sourced from wheat. It is a fiber in the form of wheat dextrin and should therefore not be consumed by anyone wishing to be wheat/gluten-free. 
1 Wheat Dextrin (e.g., Benefiber in the U.S.) is another type of non-viscous, soluble fiber that is considered a bulk-forming laxative. 2  Since it is non-viscous, it does not form a gel in the digestive tract that binds with cholesterol, rendering it ineffective in lowering blood cholesterol. Fiber from Food vs. Fiber Supplements. Isolated fibers, such as those found in fiber supplements, don't perform the same as fiber from food. With food, not only do you get a combination of insoluble and soluble fibers, you also get all the other nutrients that foods have to offer.
You can mix Benefiber ® powder into your favorite hot or cold drinks such as water, coffee, or juice; and also into soft foods such as applesauce, pudding or yogurt; or cook fiber-rich recipes with it for such foods as muffins, sauces or soups, and it won't affect the taste or consistency. Benefiber ® has a shelf life of 2 years. Just store at a room temperature of 68°-77°F (20°-25°C). Protect from moisture and be sure to check each Benefiber ® package for additional information and expiration date.
Benefiber is made up of fiber, just like many other supplements on the market. The ingredient is widely available for a fraction of the cost. “Fiber is a good option for overall health, but Benefiber does not offer evidence that this product is better than others,” claims our Research Editor. There’s a lot of interest in fiber supplements like Benefiber, so we dug deep for a review into the ingredients, customer service and clinical research to see what all the hype was about.
What You Need to Know. Benefiber is a supplement company with a Healthy Shape option. According to the product claims, the brand, derived from wheat dextrin, can curb cravings with just two servings per day. The fiber mixes completely into water, juice or milk allowing the dieter to take it on the run. There’s a lot of interest in fiber supplements like Benefiber, so we dug deep for a review into the ingredients, customer service and clinical research to see what all the hype was about.
Benefiber is a fiber supplement which has recently been reformulated. The old formula was made from partially hydrolyzed guar gum (PHGG), which comes from the seed of the cluster bean and is a form of soluble fiber. The new formula is made from wheat dextrin. As far as I can tell, some of the Benefiber products are still using the old guar gum formulation (eg: Benefiber chewables with calcium), and some are using the new wheat dextrin formulation (eg: Benefiber powder and caplets).