Vibrio cholerae bacteria can cause cholera, which is an acute, diarrheal illness that can result in severe dehydration and even death within a matter of hours. Vibrio cholerae bacteria are gram-negative rods (see Pictures of Cholera) that are facultatively anaerobic. Vibrio cholerae bacteria then begin to produce their toxin, which is the main cause of the characteristic cholera symptom: watery diarrhea. A person needs to ingest a lot of Vibrio cholerae bacteria in order to develop symptoms of cholera.
Vibrio cholerae Serogroup O1 is the type of Vibrio cholerae that most often leads to cholera. Vibrio cholerae Serogroup O139, a Vibrio cholerae Serogroup non-O1 bacteria, is the other cause of the disease. Vibrio cholerae is native to the Ganges delta, which is in India and extends into Bangladesh. Once Vibrio cholerae is ingested, the bacteria travel to the small intestine where they begin to multiply. Vibrio cholerae then begins producing its toxin, which is the main cause of watery diarrhea, a characteristic symptom of cholera.
In most cases, Vibrio cholerae Serogroup O1 is the type of Vibrio cholerae that causes cholera. Vibrio cholerae Serogroup O139, a Vibrio cholerae Serogroup non-O1 bacterium, is the other cause of cholera. There are about 70 other species of Vibrio cholerae Serogroup non-O1; these other species rarely cause diarrhea. Vibrio cholerae is a type of bacteria; when an infection occurs, it can result in an acute, diarrheal illness that can lead to severe dehydration and even death within a matter of hours (cholera). Vibrio cholerae are gram-negative rods (see Pictures of Cholera) .
Cholera is a diarrheal illness caused by the bacteria Vibrio cholerae. This species is not endemic to humans, and its presence in the human digestive system is not part of the natural life cycle of the bacteria. Cholera is a food-borne disease. The bacteria contaminate water and spread via intake. Poorly cooked foods with water contaminated with bacterium will most likely cause cholera. Avoid eating raw shellfish because this is known to be contaminated with the cholera.
The scientific name for cholera is Vibrio cholerae. Vibrio cholerae is a type of bacteria; when an infection occurs, it can result in an acute, diarrheal illness that can lead to severe dehydration and even death within a matter of hours (cholera). Vibrio cholerae are gram-negative rods (see Pictures of Cholera) .
Cholera is caused by a number of types of Vibrio cholerae, with some types producing more severe disease than others. It is spread mostly by water and food that has been contaminated with human feces containing the bacteria. Insufficiently cooked seafood is a common source. Humans are the only animal affected. Cholera is an infection of the small intestine by some strains of the bacterium Vibrio cholerae. Symptoms may range from none, to mild, to severe. The classic symptom is large amounts of watery diarrhea that lasts a few days. Vomiting and muscle cramps may also occur
Causes. A bacterium called Vibrio cholerae causes cholera infection. However, the deadly effects of the disease are the result of a potent toxin called CTX that the bacteria produce in the small intestine. CTX binds to the intestinal walls, where it interferes with the normal flow of sodium and chloride. Cholera bacteria in people. When humans ingest cholera bacteria, they may not become sick themselves, but they still pass the bacteria in their stool. When human feces contaminate food or water supplies, both can serve as ideal breeding grounds for the cholera bacteria.
Cholera, caused by the bacteria Vibrio cholerae, is rare in the United States and other industrialized nations. However, globally, cholera cases have increased steadily since 2005 and the disease still occurs in many places including Africa, Southeast Asia, and Haiti. 
Cholera is an acute bacterial illness caused by infection of the intestinal tract with the bacterium Vibrio cholerae. Cholera may produce severe gastrointestinal symptoms, including profuse, watery diarrhea, as well as vomiting and dehydration. 