In common use, mandala has become a generic term for any diagram, chart or geometric pattern that represents the cosmos metaphysically or symbolically; a microcosm of the universe.
A mandala is a complex abstract design that is usually circular in form. In fact, mandala is a Sanskrit word that means circle. Mandalas generally have one identifiable center point, from which emanates an array of symbols, shapes and forms.
Mandala (Sanskrit Maṇḍala, 'circle') is a spiritual and ritual symbol in Indian religions, representing the universe. The basic form of most mandalas is a square with four gates containing a circle with a center point. Each gate is in the general shape of a T. Mandalas often exhibit radial balance.
MandalasThe Tibetan mandala is a tool for gaining wisdom and compassion and generally is depicted as a tightly balanced, geometric composition wherein deities reside. The principal deity is housed in the center. The mandala serves as a tool for guiding individuals along the path to enlightenment.
The Tibetan word for a mandala, kyilkor (dkyil-‘khor), means literally “that which encircles a center,” goes around a center. And “Center” here, what it means is “a meaning,” and that which encircles it is a symbol, or a representation of the meaning.
Materials needed: You don't need many materials to learn how to draw a mandala. All you need is: paper, a pencil, a ruler, and an eraser. To color in your mandala: your choice of colored pencils, watercolors, crayons, or any other type of art material for coloring.
Sand mandalas are an ancient, sacred form of Tibetan Buddhist art. The word mandala itself is a Sanskrit word meaning “circle” and at its deeper levels a mandala represents the wholeness and harmony at the heart of the Tibetan Buddhist universe.
The Tibetan word for mandala, dkyil-‘khor, literally means that which encircles a center.. A center, here is a meaning, and that which encircles it – a mandala – is a round symbol that represents the meaning. Not all mandalas, however, are round.