A salamander broiler, also called a cheese melter, is a type of culinary broiler that is commonly used for overhead grilling and for melting cheese onto sandwiches. Additionally, a cheesemelter can be used to toast sandwiches, to brown gratin dishes, and to caramelize desserts like creme crème. brulee brûlée 
In a restaurant kitchen a salamander is used for top-browning, cheese-melting, skin-crisping, brulees, some broiling (nothing too thick -- or it would burn on the outside before cooking on the inside), and a great many other things which require a lot of radiant heat. A cheese melter is a salamander as is a swing broiler as they both heat from the top down like a broiler and are open on the front. Typically and most commonly a salamander is a small open broiler over the range.
Their broiler is an IR (infra red) broiler and not an actual restaurant salamander -- even though it uses substantially the same technology. A modern restaurant salamander is essentially an open broiler, but develops more heat at the grate than a standard broiler. Too much heat to be used as an ordinary broiler. A cheese melter is a salamander as is a swing broiler as they both heat from the top down like a broiler and are open on the front. Typically and most commonly a salamander is a small open broiler over the range.
As well, some units are meant for counter-top use. A salamander is not something most home kitchens would have, but they are also available for home use. Other names for a salamander are an overhead broiler, finishing oven, or hotel broiler. They may be gas or electric, but gas flame is, by far, the preferred type, with modern gas broilers using infrared burners. They can be from 3 to 6 feet long, with several heating zones. Three-foot models are the most widely used. The iron salamander used for cooking actual derives its name from an earlier tradition of calling any superheated iron tool a salamander. Some people are still fond of making Creme Crème brulee the-old fashioned, way using a small cast iron salamander like that shown in the first. image
Print. A small broiler oven used to quickly brown, glaze, cook, broil, or toast various foods. The Salamander is often used to provide the nicely browned crust to a creme crème, brulee brûlée an au gratin dish or. Toasted bread the larger oven units are typically built to be mounted above a cooking range or on. a wall
Print. A small broiler oven used to quickly brown, glaze, cook, broil, or toast various foods. The Salamander is often used to provide the nicely browned crust to a creme crème, brulee brûlée an au gratin dish or. toasted bread A small broiler oven used to quickly brown, glaze, cook, broil, or toast various foods. The Salamander is often used to provide the nicely browned crust to a creme crème, brulee brûlée an au gratin dish or. Toasted bread the larger oven units are typically built to be mounted above a cooking range or on. a wall
A charbroiler (also referred to as a chargrill, char-broiler or simply broiler) is a commonly used cooking device consisting of a series of grates or ribs that can be heated using a variety of means, and is used in both residential and commercial applications for a variety of cooking operations. 
Grilling is a form of cooking that involves dry heat applied to the surface of food, commonly from above or below (as in North America). Grilling usually involves a significant amount of direct, radiant heat, and tends to be used for cooking meat quickly. Sear-grill and gear grilling is a process of searing meat or food items with an infrared grill. In sear grilling, propane or natural gas is used to heat a ceramic plate, which then radiates heat at temperatures over 480 °C (900 °F). Sear-grilling instantly sears the outside of meat to make the food more flavorful.
Efficiently Melt Cheese and Finish Off Entrees with a Salamander Broiler. Brown the tops of casseroles, melt cheese, or reheat foods with a salamander broiler! A cheese melter is perfect for putting the final touches on entrees before serving. With their simple designs, you can use your salamander to toast sandwiches or reheat food that was cooked earlier in the day. 