A crate is great if you have a hyperactive puppy or must leave your dog home alone before she is house-trained. However, a crate is no substitute for frequent playtime and training, and leaving your dog in her crate too long can undermine its effectiveness as a training tool.
You can end up with a dog that can never be left alone – ever! While my dogs are young (generally 2 years and under) I leave them crated whenever I am not home. I like to leave them with some projects to keep them busy, though I REALLY think they just sleep when I’
Crate size is important. You want a space that is not too small, but not too big. Your dog should be able to stand up, lie down and turn around in his crate. The first rule of crate training: never force your dog into a crate. You never want to introduce a crate, shove your dog into it, close the door and leave him.
But a word of caution: Never leave your dog unsupervised with a toy that could be chewed apart and swallowed. Before leaving your dog alone, make sure any toys in the environment are indestructible. Leave the radio tuned to a calming classical station or a talk radio show. Choose the station carefully. You don’t want to come home to a dog who is amped up from listening to people shout at each other all day.
Crate Training. To maximize your dog crate's effectiveness, place it in a location your dog loves to be. Drop a fistful of treats in the crate or give your dog a bone in her crate. Leave the door open at first to help her acclimate, then gradually begin closing the door.
First, teach your dog that being home alone is okay. Every dog should be able to stay on his own all day without falling apart emotionally or becoming destructive. From the time you first get him, whether he’s a puppy or an adult, practice leaving him alone.
A crate mimics the sleeping arrangements of feral dogs and wild wolves, so it can help your dog feel secure and calm. Dogs are highly unlikely to soil the area where they sleep, so crates can also help with training.
First of all, make sure you crate train your puppy. It’s something good not just for the human, but for the dog. With proper crate training, your puppy learns how to be calm and quiet in his own special “den,” viewing it as a good thing, not a punishment.