Report Abuse. Females should be about 5 to 6 months and have a body weight of over 500g. She must have her first litter before she is 7 months old as after that her pelvic bones will have fused so dangerous for her to breed her first litter after that. The male should be at least 5 months.
Report Abuse. It is best to try to start breeding a female at 4 months old as guinea pigs only have 6 to 8 hours in an estrus cycle that they can get pregnant and their cycles run 17 days. It is very common for them not to get pregnant the first and second cycle.
Females should be about 5 to 6 months and have a body weight of over 500g. She must have her first litter before she is 7 months old as after that her pelvic bones will have fused so dangerous for her to breed her first litter after that.
Sows can breed at the tender age of five weeks but this is too young. A sow should weigh a minimum of 400gm, equivalent to about three months of age, before being mated and should preferably be a little older than this.. Male guinea pigs should be about three to four months of age before being allowed to mate.
Replacement of boars. 1  Boars must be replaced when they become too large to serve most of the sows on the farm. 2  Boars usually have a maximum working life of between 18 and 24 months. 3  This means they should be replaced when they are 30 to 36 months old.
1 Boars usually have a maximum working life of between 18 and 24 months. 2  This means they should be replaced when they are 30 to 36 months old. 3  It is very important to keep record of the boars' use so that infertile ones can be detected and replaced as soon as possible. 4  A low sex drive (libido) can also be a problem.
1 Boars must be replaced when they become too large to serve most of the sows on the farm. 2  Boars usually have a maximum working life of between 18 and 24 months. 3  This means they should be replaced when they are 30 to 36 months old.
3. When breeding pigs, select sows that are at least 9 to 10 months old as this is the ideal age for breeding. For the boars, you can either buy them when they're at least 8 months old if you have a small number of sows then breed them with a larger number as they grow older.