Romanticism (also the Romantic era or the Romantic period) was an artistic, literary, and intellectual movement that originated in Europe toward the end of the 18th century and in most areas was at its peak in the approximate period from 1800 to 1850. This is most evident in the aesthetics of romanticism, where the notion of eternal models, a Platonic vision of ideal beauty, which the artist seeks to convey, however imperfectly, on canvas or in sound, is replaced by a passionate belief in spiritual freedom, individual creativity.
aes·thet·i·cism. n. 1. often Aestheticism An artistic and intellectual movement originating in Britain in the late 19th century and characterized by the doctrine that beauty is the basic principle from which all other principles, especially moral ones, are derived. 
This movement was not only popular in England but was also popular in France and Italy. Aesthetic literature provides a great value to the work of art emphasizing in the need of beauty. The Victorian age was the age of reason and logic. There was no place for imagination, romanticism as well as adventure. The lack of the ideal of beauty in the forms of art was found in this period.
E xamples in Buffalo: Aesthetic Movement (Aestheticism) 1870-1900. The Aesthetic Movement is a loosely defined movement in literature, fine art, furniture, metalwork, ceramics, stained glass, textiles, and wallpapers in later nineteenth-century Britain. The Aesthetic Movement argued that art was not supposed to be utilitarian or useful in any practical sense. Instead, aesthetic experience is a fully autonomous and independent aspect of a human life. Thus, art should exist solely for its own sake.
Aestheticism (also the Aesthetic Movement) is an art movement supporting the emphasis of aesthetic values more than social-political themes for literature, fine art, music and other arts. The British decadent writers were much influenced by the Oxford professor Walter Pater and his essays published during 1867–68, in which he stated that life had to be lived intensely, with an ideal of beauty.
Aestheticism is the term which was used in a movement to emphasize the aesthetic value of art. This movement took place in the 19th century England. This movement was usually meant to give importance to the aesthetic value more than the social and political themes in literature as well as other forms of art. The Victorian era aestheticism played a great role in shaping the society as well as the portrayal of the society in literature. Aesthetic literature provides a great value to the work of art emphasizing in the need of beauty. The Victorian age was the age of reason and logic. There was no place for imagination, romanticism as well as adventure. The lack of the ideal of beauty in the forms of art was found in this period.
Definition of Aesthetic Movement in English: A literary and artistic movement which flourished in England in the 1880s, devoted to ‘art for art’s sake’ and rejecting the notion that art should have a social or moral purpose. 
As aesthetic movement decor was similar to the corresponding writing style in that it was about sensuality and nature, nature themes often appear on the furniture. A typical aesthetic feature is the gilded carved flower, or the stylized peacock feather. Colored paintings of birds or flowers are often seen. The British decadent writers were much influenced by the Oxford professor Walter Pater and his essays published during 1867–68, in which he stated that life had to be lived intensely, with an ideal of beauty.
Aestheticism and decadence shocked the Victorian establishment by challenging traditional values, foregrounding sensuality and promoting artistic, sexual and political experimentation. Dr Carolyn Burdett explores the key features of this unconventional artistic period. Morris was one among a number of important proponents of aestheticism who saw art as inseparable from political ideals. He drew from the work of the great Victorian critic, John Ruskin, to argue that capitalism enslaves workers, and advocated instead a system in which work is creative as well as productive.