The University recognizes the importance for employees to develop within their jobs and enhance their career growth through promotional opportunities. Salary growth may therefore be influenced by a number of factors: Pay increase adjustments within the range based on service and performance with the University. The amount of adjustment will vary as to the ability of the university to budget the dollars necessary to stay competitive with the market. Adjustments in salary will at least reflect the movement of staff to the minimum of the new market range.
Promotions: An employee who receives a promotion to a job in a higher salary range will receive an increase in pay up to 10% of the new range midpoint, or the amount necessary to bring his/her salary to the minimum rate of the new salary range. The amount of adjustment will vary as to the ability of the university to budget the dollars necessary to stay competitive with the market. Adjustments in salary will at least reflect the movement of staff to the minimum of the new market range.
Each job is evaluated and assigned a classification level within the appropriate group. To evaluate jobs, the university uses several factors including education and experience requirements, complexity of the work, and work environment. Classification is all about jobs and positions and how they fit within the organizational structure. The four main staff employee groups are below. IU is moving toward a university-wide approach for Service and Support Staff. 1  Professional classification is university-wide. 2  Service classification varies by campus.
All Professional Staff jobs were allocated to job families and levels based on two factors: 1  A job family that correlates with a discipline, occupational category, or functional area that defines the type of work performed. 
Classification and Salary. Classification is a structured approach to salary administration. Classification is all about jobs and positions and how they fit within the organizational structure. The four main staff employee groups are below. IU is moving toward a university-wide approach for Service and Support Staff. 1  Professional classification is university-wide. 2  Service classification varies by campus.
Indiana University average salary is $60,062, median salary is $50,440 with a salary range from $20,136 to $900,000. Indiana University salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Indiana University salary is full-time annual starting salary. Intern, contractor and hourly pay scale vary from regular exempt employee. Compensation depends on work experience, job location, bonus, benefits and other factors.
Of the 1,274 Kelley seniors who utilized the UCSO in 2013-14, 913 were actively seeking as of three months post-graduation. Of those, 93% reported a full-time job or graduate school acceptance with 76% of graduating Kelley seniors reporting their status. Get detailed salary information by position and region by selecting the majors below. Increasingly, internships are also a recruiting tool for employers—a high percentage of them offer full-time positions to successful interns. So competition is fierce. In 2014, internships were reported by 90 percent of students in the projected class of 2015 who were actively engaged in seeking an internship.
1 An employee who receives a promotion to a job in a higher salary range will receive an increase in pay up to 10% of the new range midpoint, or the amount necessary to bring his/her salary to the minimum rate of the new salary range. The amount of adjustment will vary as to the ability of the university to budget the dollars necessary to stay competitive with the market. Adjustments in salary will at least reflect the movement of staff to the minimum of the new market range.
Indiana University Salary. Indiana University average salary is $60,062, median salary is $50,440 with a salary range from $20,136 to $900,000. Indiana University salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position. Indiana University salary is full-time annual starting salary. Intern, contractor and hourly pay scale vary from regular exempt employee. Compensation depends on work experience, job location, bonus, benefits and other factors.