Escherichia coli (E. coli) are bacteria that normally live in the intestines of healthy people and animals, primarily cattle. Most strains of this bacteria are harmless. E. coli 0157:H7 is a specific strain of E. coli that causes illness. 
Other foods that can be infected with E. coli include: 1  Raw milk or dairy products. 2  Raw fruits and vegetables, such as lettuce, alfalfa sprouts, or unpasteurized apple cider or other unpasteurized juices that have come in contact with infected animal feces. There are many types of E. coli, and most of them are harmless. But some can cause bloody diarrhea. Some strains of E. coli bacteria (such as a strain called O157:H7) may also cause severe anemia or kidney failure, which can lead to death. Other strains of E. coli can cause urinary tract infections or other infection
Any food that has been in contact with raw meat can also become infected. Other foods that can be infected with E. coli include: 1  Raw milk or dairy products. 2  Bacteria can spread from a cow's udders to its milk. 3  Check the labels on dairy products to make sure they contain the word pasteurized.. 4  This means the food has been heated to destroy bacteria. Other strains of E. coli can cause urinary tract infections or other infections. You get an E. coli infection by coming into contact with the feces, or stool, of humans or animals. This can happen when you drink water or eat food that has been contaminated by feces.
Escherichia coli (abbreviated as E. coli) are bacteria found in the environment, foods, and intestines of people and animals. Most E. coli are harmless and actually are an important part of a healthy human intestinal tract. However, some E. coli are pathogenic, meaning they can cause illness, either diarrhea or illness outside of the intestinal tract. The types of E. coli that can cause diarrhea can be transmitted through contaminated water or food, or through contact with animals or people.
Other foods that can be infected with E. coli include: 1  Raw milk or dairy products. 2  Raw fruits and vegetables, such as lettuce, alfalfa sprouts, or unpasteurized apple cider or other unpasteurized juices that have come in contact with infected animal feces. Other strains of E. coli can cause urinary tract infections or other infections. You get an E. coli infection by coming into contact with the feces, or stool, of humans or animals. This can happen when you drink water or eat food that has been contaminated by feces.
E. coli are bacteria that normally live in the intestines of humans and animals. Although most strains of this bacteria are harmless, several are known to produce toxins that can cause diarrhea. One particular E. coli strain called 0157:H7 can cause severe diarrhea and kidney damage. People infected by E. coli 0157:H7 can develop a range of symptoms. Some infected people may have mild diarrhea or no symptoms at all. Most identified cases develop severe diarrhea and abdominal cramps. Blood is often seen in the stool.
Contaminated food. The most common way to acquire an E. coli infection is by eating contaminated food, such as: 1  Ground beef. 2  When cattle are slaughtered and processed, E. coli bacteria in their intestines can get on the meat. 3  Ground beef combines meat from many different animals, increasing the risk of contamination. 4  Unpasteurized milk. 
Other foods that can be infected with E. coli include: 1  Raw milk or dairy products. 2  Bacteria can spread from a cow's udders to its milk. 3  Check the labels on dairy products to make sure they contain the word pasteurized.. 4  This means the food has been heated to destroy bacteria. There are many types of E. coli, and most of them are harmless. But some can cause bloody diarrhea. Some strains of E. coli bacteria (such as a strain called O157:H7) may also cause severe anemia or kidney failure, which can lead to death. Other strains of E. coli can cause urinary tract infections or other infections
Escherichia coli (E. coli) bacteria normally live in the intestines of people and animals. Most E. coli are harmless and actually are an important part of a healthy human intestinal tract. However, some E. coli are pathogenic, meaning they can cause illness, either diarrhea or illness outside of the intestinal tract. 