Elvert Barnes/Flickr. Youve reached the stage in your development as an artist that youve a body of work, have started thinking seriously about selling your paintings, and see the next step as getting your paintings into an art gallery. Putting your work in a gallery is definitely a way to get recognized and build relationships with people, however, there are restrictions and other ways to get recognized. You could show your work in a gallery for a short while and then show in another gallery.
1 They like to look at art and they will look at your work. 2  They may be able to refer you on even if your work isn't suitable for them. 3  They know other galleries and other managers and from an artist's viewpoint, it's always helpful to open a walk-in with, Sandy Smith at the North Gallery suggested I show you my work.. Gallery managers like to see art but not original art. The best way to approach these managers is with the following: 1  A disk or memory stick with examples of your work. 2  Failing that, a small printed portfolio works -- anything they can file away. 3  Disks work best.
Three Parts: Selecting a gallery Getting your work recognized Getting your work into a gallery. The best way to get your work into an art gallery––it is all about difference. Here you'll learn how to take effective steps to get your art into a gallery and hopefully launch your career as a professional artist. 1. Demonstrate how your art differs from other artists' works. This is tricky, as your work may be similar to other work, but it can't be too closely related. Curators are business people, so they won't put all their eggs in one basket.
However, finding good art galleries and exhibition space is not an easy task and it takes time and effort. This article features ideas and information on how to locate art galleries and exhibition space to display your artwork. First, identify a few art galleries where you would like to exhibit. After identifying potential galleries or exhibition space your next task is convince the decision makers that your artworks should be exhibited. It is important to carefully figure out the best way to introduce yourself and your artwork. Ask your photography friends if they have any ideas about where to exhibit your work. Pick their brains, especially regarding towns that you have not visited. They might introduce you to the galleries they are affiliated with.
Find other artists to exhibit with. Browse at local art clubs or street markets where you see artists with good work on sale. Ask anyone you know who is an artist in your community. Artists with related (or even contradictory) themes will help create a group momentum. 1  Don’t limit yourself to artists within your own medium.
Let's start with your life and career as an artist, not what you're up to today, but rather what the prognosis might be down the road. Gallery owners not only have to like your art now, but they will also do their best to assess your potential for growth and development into the future. Sure, gallery owners have to be impressed with your work and like it enough to want to show it, but according to them, that's only a start; there's far more to it than that. Plenty of other puzzle pieces have to fall into place in order to seal the deal (or fall out of place in order to kill it).
3. Sign with a gallery. If you get accepted into a gallery, always have a contract. Galleries sell your work for you and take a cut, hence they are an agent, not a buyer. Ensure this cut is clearly specified in the contract. 1. Demonstrate how your art differs from other artists' works. This is tricky, as your work may be similar to other work, but it can't be too closely related. Curators are business people, so they won't put all their eggs in one basket.
* Two things never to say in an interview-- that you have a chip on your shoulder about art dealers or are bitter about previous gallery experiences. Broaching either of those topics will surely evaporate your chances of getting a first show anywhere. Sure, gallery owners have to be impressed with your work and like it enough to want to show it, but according to them, that's only a start; there's far more to it than that. Plenty of other puzzle pieces have to fall into place in order to seal the deal (or fall out of place in order to kill it).
How to Set Up an Art Exhibition. Whether you're exhibiting your own artwork or someone else's, setting up an art exhibition can be a creative, fulfilling endeavor in and of itself. However, it does have its challenges and you'll need good planning to pull it off. Ad. Browse at local art clubs or street markets where you see artists with good work on sale. Ask anyone you know who is an artist in your community. Artists with related (or even contradictory) themes will help create a group momentum. 1  Don’t limit yourself to artists within your own medium.
Just because you get a first show at a better gallery than you've ever shown at before doesn't mean you instantly double or triple your prices. One reason galleries give shows in the first place is that they believe the artists' prices are fair to begin with and that they can sell the art at those levels. Sure, gallery owners have to be impressed with your work and like it enough to want to show it, but according to them, that's only a start; there's far more to it than that. Plenty of other puzzle pieces have to fall into place in order to seal the deal (or fall out of place in order to kill it).