Whole Wheat Bread. Whole wheat bread, and other breads made from 100 percent whole wheat grains are another good source for healthy carbohydrates. Unlike white bread, whole wheat bread still contains the bran and germ of the grains, which is where a majority of the nutrients in bread can be found. 1 They are grouped into two categories: simple and complex. 2  Simple carbohydrates are mainly made up of sugars like table sugar, fruit sugar or corn sugar. 3  Complex carbohydrates are foods made up of three or more linked sugars like bran, potatoes, brown rice, peas and whole grain cereals.
It’s based on how much fiber is in the food and how fast the food’s sugars are absorbed into your blood stream. For more info about good, bad, simple and complex carbs, go to the Good Carbs List of Carbohydrates in Food, the Low Glycemic Diet of Low Glycemic Foods and the complete list of healthy High Fiber Foods. More CommonSenseHealth for You: How to Stop Emotional Eating. Healthy Carbs and Complex Carbohydrates List. Simple and complex carbohydrates can be misunderstood. Since whole fruit is a simple carb, it’s best to categorize carbs as either bad or good carbs. Here’s your complete good healthy carbohydrates list
Whole-grain products such as brown rice, whole-grain pasta, beans, whole wheat bread, whole oats, buckwheat, millet, whole rye, whole-grain barley and whole-grain corn are considered good carbohydrates. These foods are rich in fiber, vitamins, minerals and phytonutrients that are beneficial to your health. Carbohydrates provide your body with glucose it needs to function properly. Two types of carbohydrates exist: complex carbohydrates and simple carbohydrates. Complex carbohydrates take time to break down into glucose. Foods rich in complex carbohydrates and fiber are called good carbohydrates. Simple carbohydrates include sugars found in foods such as fruits and milk products and sugars added during food processing. Foods rich in white flour and added sugars are called bad carbohydrates
As a dietitian, I'm often asked to explain the difference between simple and complex carbohydrates. While most people have heard that complex carbohydrates are better for you than simple carbohydrates, what's often unclear is how the two differ, and why the differences between the two affect your health. Simple carbohydrates include monosaccharides (one-unit sugars) and disaccharides (two-unit sugars). Monosaccharides include glucose, fructose and galactose. These can be absorbed directly and don't require further breakdown from enzymes, unlike disaccharides and polysaccharides.
Oatmeal, brown rice, quinoa, potatoes, beans, peas and lentils are examples of complex carbs. Simple carbs are often softer in texture – white bread, white rice and baked goods. Soda, candy and other sweeteners like table sugar and honey are also simple carbs. 
1 Sugar is the simplest form of carbohydrates. 2  Sugar occurs naturally in some foods, including fruits, vegetables, milk and milk products. 3  Sugars include fruit sugar (fructose), table sugar (sucrose) and milk sugar (lactose). 4  Starch. 5  Starch is a complex carbohydrate, meaning it is made of many sugar units bonded together. 1 Starch is a complex carbohydrate, meaning it is made of many sugar units bonded together. 2  Starch occurs naturally in vegetables, grains, and cooked dry beans and peas. 3  Fiber. 4  Fiber also is a complex carbohydrate. 5  Fiber occurs naturally in fruits, vegetables, whole grains, and cooked dry beans and peas.
1 Starch. 2  Starch is a complex carbohydrate, meaning it is made of many sugar units bonded together. 3  Starch occurs naturally in vegetables, grains, and cooked dry beans and peas. 4  Fiber. 5  Fiber also is a complex carbohydrate. 6  Fiber occurs naturally in fruits, vegetables, whole grains, and cooked dry beans and peas. 1 Starch is a complex carbohydrate, meaning it is made of many sugar units bonded together. 2  Starch occurs naturally in vegetables, grains, and cooked dry beans and peas. 3  Fiber. 4  Fiber also is a complex carbohydrate. 5  Fiber occurs naturally in fruits, vegetables, whole grains, and cooked dry beans and peas.