• POLIOMYELITIS (noun). The noun POLIOMYELITIS has 1 sense: 1. an acute viral disease marked by inflammation of nerve cells of the brain stem and spinal cord. Familiarity information: POLIOMYELITIS used as a noun is very rare. 
1 an acute infectious viral disease, esp affecting children. 2  In its paralytic form (acute anterior poliomyelitis) the brain and spinal cord are involved, causing weakness, paralysis, and wasting of muscle. 3  Often shortened to : : polio. 4  Also called : : infantile paralysis. 1 Trends. 2  an acute infectious viral disease, esp affecting children. 3  In its paralytic form (acute anterior poliomyelitis) the brain and spinal cord are involved, causing weakness, paralysis, and wasting of muscle. 4
Poliomyelitis has existed for thousands of years, with depictions of the disease in ancient art. The disease was first recognized as a distinct condition by Michael Underwood in 1789 and the virus that causes it was first identified in 1908 by Karl Landsteiner. Approximately 19% of all paralytic polio cases have both bulbar and spinal symptoms; this subtype is called respiratory or bulbospinal polio. Here, the virus affects the upper part of the cervical spinal cord (cervical vertebrae C3 through C5), and paralysis of the diaphragm occurs.
Top of Page. Two types of vaccine protect against polio: oral poliovirus vaccine (OPV) and inactivated poliovirus vaccine (IPV) (given as an injection in the leg or arm, depending on the patient's age). Polio, or poliomyelitis, is a crippling and potentially deadly infectious disease. It is caused by the poliovirus. The virus spreads from person to person and can invade an infected person’s brain and spinal cord, causing paralysis (can’t move parts of the body). 
Poliomyelitis, often called polio or infantile paralysis, is an infectious disease caused by the poliovirus. Approximately 90% to 95% of infections cause no symptoms. Approximately 19% of all paralytic polio cases have both bulbar and spinal symptoms; this subtype is called respiratory or bulbospinal polio. Here, the virus affects the upper part of the cervical spinal cord (cervical vertebrae C3 through C5), and paralysis of the diaphragm occurs.
Noun. 1. polio-an acute viral disease marked by inflammation of nerve cells of the brain stem and spinal cord. acute anterior poliomyelitis, infantile paralysis, poliomyelitis. infectious disease-a disease transmitted only by a specific kind of contact. Translations. po·li·o. A contagious disease, caused by a virus, that mainly affects the nerve cells of the spinal cord and brain, often leading to muscle weakness and paralysis. The name is a shortening of poliomyelitis (pō′lē-ō-mī′ə-lī′tĭs).
Knowledge center. Polio, or poliomyelitis, is a highly contagious viral infection that can lead to paralysis, breathing problems, or even death. The term poliomyelitis is from the Greek polios poliós meaning, grey myelos myelós referencing the, spinal-cord and itis. meaning inflammation Paralytic polio will often begin with symptoms similar to nonparalytic polio, but will progress to more serious symptoms such as a loss of muscle reflexes, severe muscle pain and spasms, and loose or floppy limbs that is often worse on one side of the body.
Polio, or poliomyelitis, is a highly contagious viral infection that can lead to paralysis, breathing problems, or even death. The term poliomyelitis is from the Greek polios poliós meaning, grey myelos myelós referencing the, spinal-cord and itis. Meaning inflammation polio can be classified as either symptomatic. or asymptomatic Paralytic polio will often begin with symptoms similar to nonparalytic polio, but will progress to more serious symptoms such as a loss of muscle reflexes, severe muscle pain and spasms, and loose or floppy limbs that is often worse on one side of the body.
poliomyelitis. an acute infectious disease occurring sporadically or in epidemics and caused by a virus, usually a poliovirus but occasionally a coxsackievirus or echovirus. Called also polio. Initial clinical characteristics include fever, sore throat, headache, and vomiting, often with stiffness of the neck and back. 
Polio: Abbreviation for poliomyelitis, an acute and sometimes devastating disease caused by a virus. Man is the only natural host for polio virus. The virus enters the mouth and multiplies in lymphoid tissues in the throat and intestine. 