Every fibre of the muscle is approximately forty millimeter in length and is made up of a number of very small strands which are known as fibrils. These fibres are extremely slender, so much so that one square centimeter of a muscle contains in it up to one million fibres. Each fibre is commanded by a nerve which makes it to contract. The number of fibres, contracting, determine the strength of muscles work. Muscle is mainly composed of muscle cells. Within the cells are myofibrils; myofibrils contain sarcomeres, which are composed of actin and myosin. Individual muscle fibres are surrounded by endomysium.
The muscular system is responsible for the movement of the human body. Attached to the bones of the skeletal system are about 700 named muscles that make up roughly half of a person’s body weight. Each of these muscles is a discrete organ constructed of skeletal muscle tissue, blood vessels, tendons, and nerves. Muscle tissue is also found inside of the heart, digestive organs, and blood vessels. In these organs, muscles serve to move substances throughout the body.... 
All muscles are basically made of the same material, a kind of elastic tissue; packages of stretchable fiber-like material, similar to what goes into making a rubber band. Each muscle is made of thousands, and sometimes tens of thousands of small musculus fibers. Striated muscles consist of thousands of sarcomeres-muscle units. The muscle has a striped (striated) appearance when viewed under a microscope because each sarcomere is made up of parallel bands of different materials. When various bands in the sarcomeres relax or contract, the whole muscle extends or relaxes.
Functions of the Muscles. The Human muscular system is made up of a complex network of soft tissues which are called muscles. Muscle tissue is found throughout the human body and it has the following functions; 1  Movement. 2  Skeletal muscles attached to the skeleton move the body by moving bones. 1 Within each skeletal muscle, the muscle fibers are separated into groups. 2  Each group, which resembles a bundle of sticks tied together, is called a fascicle (bundle). 3  Surrounding each fascicle is a layer of fibrous connective tissue called perimysium (around the muscle [fascicle]).
Skeletal muscle is made up of individual muscle cells or myocytes, known as muscle fibers. They are formed from the fusion of developmental myoblasts (a type of embryonic progenitor cell that gives rise to a muscle cell) in a process known as myogenesis. Muscle fibres are cylindrical, and multinucleated. 
Muscles are made of protein, and their building blocks are the amino acids. When you use your muscles in daily activity or exercise, they are broken down. But protein repairs this damage and rebuilds muscle. 
Muscle tissues are derived from the mesodermal layer of embryonic germ cells in a process known as myogenesis. There are three types of muscle, skeletal or striated, cardiac, and smooth. Muscle action can be classified as being either voluntary or involuntary. 1 Smooth muscle or involuntary muscle is found within the walls of organs and structures such as the esophagus, stomach, intestines, bronchi, uterus, urethra, bladder, blood vessels, and the arrector pili in the skin (in which it controls erection of body hair).
Muscle is a soft tissue found in most animals. Muscle cells contain protein filaments of actin and myosin that slide past one another, producing a contraction that changes both the length and the shape of the cell. 1 Smooth muscle or involuntary muscle is found within the walls of organs and structures such as the esophagus, stomach, intestines, bronchi, uterus, urethra, bladder, blood vessels, and the arrector pili in the skin (in which it controls erection of body hair).