Muscular System Diseases. Muscular system diseases affect the normal working of the muscles in the body. The list of diseases covered in the following article, will help you learn about the different types of disorders that cause weakness and a wasting away of muscle tissue. Advertisement. Muscles are a very important part of our body. If the muscular system is affected by any disease or disorder, it leads to many minor and in some cases, major health problems. Not only do the disorders affect mobility, but also cause many other functional problems. Diseases of the Muscular System. There are about 650 muscles in the human muscular system.
Shares & Saves. Save. Some of the most common diseases and disorders of the muscular system include myopathies, chronic fatigue syndrome, fibromyalgia, muscular dystrophy and compartment syndrome. Muscular system diseases are often caused by problems with the central nervous system. 
Dermatomyositis belongs to a group of conditions called inflammatory myopathies. Polymyositis Polymyositis is a systemic connective tissue disorder characterized by inflammatory and degenerative changes in the muscles, leading to symmetric weakness and some degree of muscle atrophy. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Muscle diseases Myopathy Myopathies are diseases of skeletal muscle which are not caused by nerve disorders. These diseases cause the skeletal or voluntary muscles to become weak or wasted. Myopathies are usually degenerative, but they are sometimes caused by drug side effects, chemical poisoning, or a chronic disorder of the immune system
Posted on. (Answer #2). There are too many diseases that effect the muscular system to mention. Many of them are brain disorders that effect the motor control areas in the frontal and parietal lobes of the brain. 
Symptoms, diagnosis and treatment. The most common symptom or sign of a muscle disorder is weakness, although muscle disorders can cause a number of symptoms, according to Schabbing. In addition to weakness, symptoms include abnormal fatigue with activity, as well as muscle spasms, cramping or twitching. Motor neuron disorders affect the nerve cells that supply muscles, Schabbing said. The most recognizable motor neuron disease is amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, or ALS, commonly known as Lou Gehrig's disease. Learn about the muscles that move your body and keep you alive.
Diseases of the Muscular System. Myasthenia gravis. Myasthenia gravis (MG) is a condition where the body's own defense, the immune system, attacks the body. In MG, the intersection between nerve and muscle is the target, causing a blockade of signals that would otherwise command the muscle to go into action. Muscular Dystrophy. There are more than 100 diseases that have the symptoms of muscular dystrophy or involve the degradation of muscles. For some, the affliction is so severe that patients’ lives are cut short, but others can live into adulthood.
Muscular system diseases cause many problems in the human body, that affect the mobility and functioning of its various organs. Muscular Dystrophy. This is a genetic disease of a group of inherited muscle disease that cause damage to muscle fibers. If the muscular system is affected by any disease or disorder, it leads to many minor and in some cases, major health problems. Not only do the disorders affect mobility, but also cause many other functional problems. Diseases of the Muscular System. There are about 650 muscles in the human muscular system.