Lucha libre wrestlers are known as luchadores (singular luchador) (wrestler(s)). The Cruiserweight division is often associated with the lucha libre style of wrestling, even though in Mexico, the term light-heavyweight (peso semicompleto) is used due to a different weight class system.
Alejandro Munoz Muñoz (Moreno april, 24 – 1922 december, 16), 2000 better known As Blue (Demon Demonio azul In), spanish was A mexican Luchador (Enmascarado masked professional) wrestler who was widely considered to be one of the Greatest mexican wrestlers of his. time Blue began his career in the ring as a rudo (a bad guy). From there, he formed a famous tag-team with another well-known masked luchador named The Black Shadow, and the two became known as Los Hermanos Shadow (The Shadow Brothers).
Rudo is one of the main heroes of Lucha Libre-combative art form with elements of melodrama, high-flying athletics, comedy, suspense, and intrigue. Appearing in red mask, Rudo is a wrestler who does not respect the rules of Lucha libre or his fellow wrestler. He is considered the bad guy or a heel and is willing to win by any means necessary even if it means cheating or brown-nosing the referee. Rudo can surprise you with his tactics, so never turn you back on Rudo. Rudo will use all means necessary to be victorious, and he will sneak up on you while you are not watching. Rudo is more down to earth than Tecnico and will always give a good show.
Lucha libre (. [ˈlutʃa ˈlibɾe] , meaning free wrestling) is a term used in Mexico, and other Spanish-speaking countries, for a form of professional wrestling that has developed within those countries. The Cruiserweight division is often associated with the lucha libre style of wrestling, even though in Mexico, the term light-heavyweight (peso semicompleto) is used due to a different weight class system.
El Santo is the most famous and iconic wrestler of all time. He is known as “El Enmascarado de Plata” (the “Man in the Silver Mask”). He was born Rodolfo Guzman Guzmán huerta In, Tulancingo hidalgo In mexico in. 1917 he came from a wrestling family with several of his brothers also having careers as professional. wrestlers Originally, El Santo wrestled in the style of a “rudo,” (a “bad guy” wrestler) playing against the expectations that people had of a wrestler named, a “saint.” Later, El Santo turned to being a “tecnico,” técnico “a good” guy. wrestler
The noble hero of Lucha Libre, Tecnico, wears a blue mask. His moves are spectacular, graceful and acrobatic. His awe-inspiring high-flying style of wrestling is honored by Tecnico tequila, noted for its smoothness and luscious texture. Its almost mythic heroes who battle evil and corruption have inspired generations in movies as well as the ring. Long before the World Wrestling Federation brought back wrestling to the United States, Lucha Libre's masked heroes and villains were developing the moves that would make the WWFs founders very rich.
Tag team wrestling is especially prevalent in lucha libre, particularly matches with three-member teams, called trios. Lucha libre wrestlers are known as luchadores (singular luchador) (wrestler(s)). They usually come from extended wrestling families who form their own stables. The Cruiserweight division is often associated with the lucha libre style of wrestling, even though in Mexico, the term light-heavyweight (peso semicompleto) is used due to a different weight class system.
Lucha Libre (which translates literally as Free Fighting) is the professional wrestling performed in Mexico and other Latin American countries. Its almost mythic heroes who battle evil and corruption have inspired generations in movies as well as the ring. Long before the World Wrestling Federation brought back wrestling to the United States, Lucha Libre's masked heroes and villains were developing the moves that would make the WWFs founders very rich.
Lucha Libre as an art form is much beloved by the Latino culture, and is one of the most popular live events in Mexico after soccer, selling millions of tickets to a mass audience composed of families from across the socioeconomic strata. Its almost mythic heroes who battle evil and corruption have inspired generations in movies as well as the ring. Long before the World Wrestling Federation brought back wrestling to the United States, Lucha Libre's masked heroes and villains were developing the moves that would make the WWFs founders very rich.
In modern Lucha Libre, masks are colorfully designed to evoke the images of animals, gods and ancient heroes, whose identity the Luchador (wrestler) takes on during a performance. The mask is considered sacred, so much so that fully removing an opponents mask during a match is grounds for disqualification. Its almost mythic heroes who battle evil and corruption have inspired generations in movies as well as the ring. Long before the World Wrestling Federation brought back wrestling to the United States, Lucha Libre's masked heroes and villains were developing the moves that would make the WWFs founders very rich.