Cheetahs   On the Savannah where they live you could say it's fast food country. Their favorite prey is the gazelle and wild boar and these guys can run. Other cats have d … eveloped in a Clan society so they can gang up on their prey or set traps. The cheetah is strictly a loner so they have had to evolve into very fast runners to succeed. Cheetahs can run so fast by the aerodynamic shaping of their heads and the flexibility of their spines. The head provides aerodynamic shape. And the flexibility of their spines allows them long strides. Male cheetahs often form a brother alliance, with male siblings staying together for years, hunting as a group
(It looks a lot like a leopard, but you can tell a cheetah by the bilateral, teardrop-shaped stripes running from either side of its nose to its eyes.) It's small and lightweight, usually less than 3 feet (1 meter) tall and about 4 feet (1.2 meters) long [source: Defenders of Wildlife ]. A cheetah picks up speed faster than both of those cars. Its specialized body accelerates at 10 meters per second and gets up to 40 mph (64 kph) in three strides [source: Cheetah Conservation ].
If a lion comes along, the cheetah will abandon its catch -- it can't fight off a lion, and chances are, the cheetah will lose its life along with its prey if it doesn't get out of there fast enough. Speed is never an issue, of course. Speed is how the cheetah survives as a predator that can't defend itself in a fight. A cheetah picks up speed faster than both of those cars. Its specialized body accelerates at 10 meters per second and gets up to 40 mph (64 kph) in three strides [source: Cheetah Conservation ].
Cheetahs: Born to Run. Any animal that can go from zero to 40 mph in three strides must have a very specialized body. The cheetah is so built for speed, it really can't do much else. A cheetah's speed starts with aerodynamics. Its slender body, small head, flattened rib cage and long, thin legs minimize air resistance. It typically only weighs about 125 pounds (57 kg), so its muscles don't have that much weight to carry. 
The cheetah is the world’s fastest land animal. They can run 70 mph (or 110 kph), which is as fast as cars drive on the highway. The cheetah can reach its top speed in just 3 seconds! The cheetah has “semi non-retractable” claws (almost like dog claws) that work like the cleats on a football shoe to give the cheetah a lot of traction when running. The pads of most cats’ paws are soft, but the cheetah’s pads are hard kind of like the rubber on a tire.
In other words, fast-running cheetahs pass down fast-running genes, while slow-running cheetahs starve to death (they don’t get to pass on their genes at all). The gazelle is also naturally selected for speed. Faster gazelles outrun slower gazelles, and the slower ones get devoured. Anyway, the question here is no riddle, and the obvious answer is that cheetahs run fast so that they could catch their prey, (and then eat it alive). Now, as to why God would design such a sadistic preying method, I shall not pursue here, and I shall leave that for you to figure out.
Their favorite prey is the gazelle and wild boar and these guys can run. Other cats have developed in a Clan society so they can gang up on their prey or set traps. The cheetah is strictly a loner so they have had to evolve into very fast runners to succeed. Cheetahs have adapted claws that are always extended. Cheetahs can run so fast by the aerodynamic shaping of their heads and the flexibility of their spines. The head provides aerodynamic shape. And the flexibility of their spines allows them long strides. Male cheetahs often form a brother alliance, with male siblings staying together for years, hunting as a group
The cheetah (Acinonyx jubatus) is a big cat in the subfamily Felinae that inhabits most of Africa and parts of Iran. It is the only extant member of the genus Acinonyx. The cheetah can run as fast as 109.4 to 120.7 km/h (68.0 to 75.0 mph), faster than any other land animal. Agility, rather than raw speed, accounts for much of the cheetah's ability to catch prey. Cheetahs can accelerate four times as fast as a human (thanks to greater muscle power) and can slow down by 14 kilometers per hour in one stride. They can hunt successfully in densely vegetated areas.
Going after impalas, gazelles and small wildebeests, the cheetah is a blur, and the chase is short-lived, typically lasting about 30 seconds. Cheetah moms spend a lot of time teaching their cubs to chase, sometimes dragging live animals back to the den so the cubs can practice the chase-and-catch process. A cheetah picks up speed faster than both of those cars. Its specialized body accelerates at 10 meters per second and gets up to 40 mph (64 kph) in three strides [source: Cheetah Conservation ].