This fall, an extended bear hunting season is planned for four of the state's 22 wildlife management units including Allegheny County and a cluster of counties in Southeastern Pennsylvania near populated areas, such as Philadelphia, Lancaster, Reading, York, Harrisburg, Lebanon, Allentown, Bethlehem and Easton. 
There are eight species of bears that remain on the Earth today. While they are all similar in basic ways, there are enough differences for them to each have their own category as well as name. 1  Bear Species Overview. 2  There are eight species of bears living today. 3  Brown Bear. 1 There are eight species of bears living today. 2  Brown Bear. 3  The Brown Bear is often mistaken for a Grizzly Bear due to the resemblance in their physical appearance. 4  Grizzly Bear. 5  When you think of bears in general, it may be the well known Grizzly Bear that you have a vision of.
Polar bears are the largest of the three bears found in North America. They range from about seven hundred pounds up to about fifteen hundred pounds. Not only are they the largest bear found in North America they are also the most dangerous to humans. Black bears can be found as far south as central Mexico and as far north as northern Alaska and most of Canada. In the United States black bears are common in the east, along the west coast, in the Rocky Mountains and parts of Alaska.
The American black bear is the most commonly seen bear in North America and it has the largest geographic range. Black bears can be found as far south as central Mexico and as far north as northern Alaska and most of Canada. In the United States black bears are common in the east, along the west coast, in the Rocky Mountains and parts of Alaska.
It is the continent's smallest and most widely distributed bear species. Black bears are omnivores with their diets varying greatly depending on season and location. They typically live in largely forested areas, but do leave forests in search of food. Along with the brown bear, it is one of only two of the eight modern bear species not considered globally threatened with extinction by the IUCN. American black bears often mark trees using their teeth and claws as a form of communication with other bears, a behavior common to many species of bears.
1 Bear Species Overview. 2  There are eight species of bears living today. 3  Brown Bear. 4  The Brown Bear is often mistaken for a Grizzly Bear due to the resemblance in their physical appearance. 1 There are eight species of bears living today. 2  Brown Bear. 3  The Brown Bear is often mistaken for a Grizzly Bear due to the resemblance in their physical appearance. 4  Grizzly Bear. 5  When you think of bears in general, it may be the well known Grizzly Bear that you have a vision of.
Brown bears, black bears ,Grizzly bears Actually, grizzly bears are brown bears (brown bears is the species name, and it includes Kodiak, Russian Brown Bears and Grizzlies amo … ng others). Also, there are Polar Bears in Canada as well. So the answer is Brown (Grizzly and Kodiak), Black, and Polar bears. 
Black Bears. Black bears are the smallest and most common of the three bear species found in North America, and the only species found in Pennsylvania. This fact sheet covers general black bear biology, damage caused by black bears, and damage control strategies. Black bears are the smallest and most common of the three bear species found in North America, and the only species found in Pennsylvania. Their fur is generally uniform in color but is not necessarily black. In Pennsylvania, bear habitat typically consists of mixed hardwood forests. Oak, hickory, black cherry, and beech trees provide the favorite mast of the black bear. An understory of blackberries and blueberries attracts bears; cornfields and abandoned apple orchards also are popular feeding sites.