Not all are photosynthetic, some are symbiotic-living in the cells of their hosts. Zooxanthallae are the most common symbiotic dinoflagellates and are found in many marine invertebrates such as sponges, corals, jellyfish, flatworms, and other protists. About one half are heterotrophic; they eat other plankton. Sometimes they eat each other by snaring or stinging their prey. Dinoflagellates are unicellular protists and are usually planktonic-ninety percent are marine plankton. They are small; many are microscopic, although the largest, Noctiluca, is 2 mm in diameter. Dinoflagellates are motile and swim by two flagella, which are movable protein strands.
The dinoflagellates are a large group of flagellate protists. About half are photosynthetic, the rest are mostly heterotroph predators of other protists. The ones which are photosynthetic are sometimes loosely called ' algae '; the one which are predators are sometimes loosely called ' protozoa '. 
Remarkable features of dinoflagellates seem to be the rule rather than the exception. Dinoflagellates may possess ejectile organelles similar to the cnidarian nematocysts. Many have numerous structures near the periphery of their cell interior called trichocysts, features similar to those found in ciliates. A red tide, more properly termed a harmful algal bloom, is somewhat of a misnomer since the water rarely turns red but more usually a tint of orange, resulting from the rapid bloom and dense populations (up to 100 million cells/l) of one or more of several species of dinoflagellates (or diatoms).
Two broad groups of dinoflagellates can be distinguished by the presence or absence of well-developed cellulose-containing thecal plates, and these groups are termed armored dinoflagellates or unarmored (naked) dinoflagellates, respectively. A red tide, more properly termed a harmful algal bloom, is somewhat of a misnomer since the water rarely turns red but more usually a tint of orange, resulting from the rapid bloom and dense populations (up to 100 million cells/l) of one or more of several species of dinoflagellates (or diatoms).
Bioluminescence produced by some dinoflagellates helps protect them from predation by silently alerting higher order predators to the location of their enemies. This silent signal alerts predators higher up in the food chain about the dinoflagellates' nemesis. '[The burglar alarm] is a scream for help,' Widder says. 'The best chance you have when you're getting attacked is to attract something bigger than what is eating you.' (Hadhazy 2009).
Their populations are distributed depending on temperature, salinity, or depth. Many dinoflagellates are known to be photosynthetic, but a large fraction of these are in fact mixotrophic, combining photosynthesis with ingestion of prey (phagotrophy). Most photosynthetic species contain chlorophylls a and c2, the carotenoid beta-carotene, and a group of xanthophylls that appears to be unique to dinoflagellates, typically peridinin, dinoxanthin, and diadinoxanthin. These pigments give many dinoflagellates their typical goldenbrown color.
This diploid form, called a cyst (or dinocyst), settles to the bottom of the water column and is a resting stage in the dinoflagellate's life cycle. The cyst can have a tough coating of a substance called sporopollenin, or it may be embedded with calcium carbonate or silica. A red tide, more properly termed a harmful algal bloom, is somewhat of a misnomer since the water rarely turns red but more usually a tint of orange, resulting from the rapid bloom and dense populations (up to 100 million cells/l) of one or more of several species of dinoflagellates (or diatoms).
So the question here is whether the problem dinoflagellates have this same response or not. As mentioned above, the exact species that are a problem in reef aquaria have not been identified, and even if identified, have probably not been studied with respect to their pH response. Others can become symbiotic photosynthetic organisms living inside corals, clams and other marine organisms (i.e., zooxanthallae). Some dinoflagellates are parasites on fish; still others are predators.
So the dinoflagellates predator may devour them, but with the sudden flash of light announcing it, the predators have now been illuminated to larger predators in the vicinity. Even after the dinoflagellate has been consumed, the predator's motion will continue to usher forth bursts of light. 
Some species are endosymbionts of marine animals and play an important part in the biology of coral reefs. Other dinoflagellates are colorless predators on other protozoa, and a few forms are parasitic (see for example Oodinium, Pfiesteria). Some dinoflagellates produce resting stages, called dinoflagellate cysts or dinocysts, as part of their life cycles. Dinoflagellates are considered to be protists, with their own division, Dinoflagellata. Most photosynthetic species contain chlorophylls a and c2, the carotenoid beta-carotene, and a group of xanthophylls that appears to be unique to dinoflagellates, typically peridinin, dinoxanthin, and diadinoxanthin. These pigments give many dinoflagellates their typical goldenbrown color.