Corundum is best known for its gem varieties, Ruby and Sapphire. Ruby and Sapphire are scientifically the same mineral, but just differ in color. Ruby is the red variety, and Sapphire is the variety that encompasses all other colors, although the most popular and valued color of Sapphire is blue.
Primary deposits include igneous and metamorphic deposits. Igneous gem corundum deposits are rare and include sapphire-bearing syenites from Kenya. Emphasis is put on metamorphic deposits, that are subdivided into metamorphic s.s., metasomatic, and anatect
Ruby, sapphire, and spinel from primary and secondary deposits are the most valuable of these; tourmaline, gem-quality feldspar, pargasite, and humite are also mined there. As a result of this discovery, the Luc Yen district has become Vietnam’s most important gemstone-trading center over the past 30 years.
Some problems with using natural corundum as an abrasive are that the deposits are usually small, irregular in shape, and the corundum is of variable quality. They are not reliable sources of consistent-quality material needed to run a manufacturing process.
Corundum is found as a primary mineral in igneous rocks such as syenite, nepheline syenite, and pegmatite. Some of the world's most important ruby and sapphire deposits are found where the gems have weathered from basalt flows and are now found in the downslope soils and sediments. Corundum is also found in metamorphic rocks in locations where aluminous shales or bauxites have been exposed to contact metamorphism.
The primary gem-corundum deposits of Madagascar. (A) General view of the Soamiakatra ruby mine in 2003. The deposit is located in an alkali basalt plug intruding khondalite, biotite gneiss and quartzite (gn).
The documented primary gem corundum deposits include the alkaline igneous rock of the Garba Tula deposit in Central Kenya (Simonet et al., 2004). Originally believed to be a monzonite, it is now realized that the rock is a syenite.
Abstract. This classification of gem corundum (ruby and sapphire) deposits takes into consideration petrographic data, and the mode of genesis of the deposits. It is aimed at being practical and useful in the field, particularly for prospecting purposes.