It depends on the babies weight and age. On average a baby should drink 2 ounces of formula or breast milk per pound each day. For example a 10 pound baby should drink around 20 ounces a day. But it depends on the baby, some need more and some need less. As long as your baby seems satisfied and is gaining weight properly, theres nothing to worry about. ok for one i hope you mean formula, because babies dont need actual real milk until they are a year old anyways it all depends on your baby. some babies eat more, some eat less. my son was eating 8 ounces every 2-4 hours.
1 Although milk is the basic food, your baby must not receive too much. Up to three years is recommended to drink a quantity of 250 ml and 500 ml per day, distributed to the morning and evening meal. 1 By the age of 6 months, your baby is satisfied only with breast milk. 2  You can give the child cow’s milk, but only after the age of one year. 3  There are preferred the variants with full-fat content until three years old.
The research tells us that exclusively breastfed babies take in an average of 25 oz (750 mL) per day between the ages of 1 month and 6 months. Different babies take in different amounts of milk; a typical range of milk intakes is 19-30 oz per day (570-900 mL per day). We can use this information to estimate the average amount of milk baby will need at a feeding: 1  Estimate the number of times that baby nurses per day (24 hours). 1 Estimate the number of times that baby nurses per day (24 hours). 2  Then divide 25 oz by the number of nursings. 3  This gives you a “ballpark” figure for the amount of expressed milk your exclusively breastfed baby will need at one feeding.
As much as the baby wants, and as often as the baby wants it. When my baby was 2 weeks old he was drinking about 3 1/2 to 4 ounces every 3 hours. But all babies are different and it does depend on if you are breastfeeding or bottle feeding. As a general rule, a baby that age should take in approximately 2.5x her weight in ounces of milk. For example, an 8-lb baby should get about 20 ounces a day-spread across 7 or 8 feedings of between 2 and 3 ounces each. Of course, if you're breastfeeding there's no real way to know how much is being ingested. Then you just have to trust the baby to drink what she needs
Because of the great variability in the amount of solids that babies take during the second six months, the amount of milk will vary, too. One study found average breastmilk intake to be 30 oz per day (875 ml/day; 93% of total intake) at 7 months and 19 oz (550 ml/day; 50% of total energy intake) at 11-16 months. 1 Estimate the number of times that baby nurses per day (24 hours). 2  Then divide 25 oz by the number of nursings. 3  This gives you a “ballpark” figure for the amount of expressed milk your exclusively breastfed baby will need at one feeding.
You can assume your baby is getting about 3 ounces per feeding. Breastfed babies drink somewhere between 25 ounces and 30 ounces per day. Take into account that every baby is different and what you are able to pump does not necessarily indicate how much milk you actually have. The pumping process is completely different than the act of a child nursing at the breast. By the time your baby is 6 weeks old, he or she should be fed 4 to 5 ounces of formula, 6 to 8 times per day. If you multiply your baby's weight by 2.5, you will get a rough estimate of how many ounces he or she needs per day.
Formula Amounts. Bottle feeding allows you calculate exactly how much formula you offer your baby and how much he actually eats. A general rule of thumb is 2 1/2 ounces per pound for the day, according to the American Academy of Pediatrics' Healthy Children website. 
In general -- remember, your baby's needs may differ and change -- a baby drinks about 2 1/2 ounces of formula or breast milk a day for every pound he weighs, according to the American Academy of Pediatrics. As his stomach grows, he'll drink more ounces at a time. That means: 
Many mothers wonder how much expressed breastmilk they need to have available if they are away from baby. In exclusively breastfed babies, milk intake increases quickly during the first few weeks of life, then stays about the same between one and six months (though it likely increases short term during growth spurts). 1 Estimate the number of times that baby nurses per day (24 hours). 2  Then divide 25 oz by the number of nursings. 3  This gives you a “ballpark” figure for the amount of expressed milk your exclusively breastfed baby will need at one feeding.