Champix (varenicline) is a prescription-only medicine which will greatly increase your chances of successfully quitting smoking. It works by relieving the craving and withdrawal symptoms associated with giving up smoking, and does not contain nicotine. Champix (varenicline) works by mimicking the effects of nicotine on the brain thus reducing withdrawal symptoms and cravings. Champix stimulates nicotinic receptors in the brain, which relieves the craving and withdrawal symptoms you can get when you stop smoking.
Varenicline (trade names Chantix and Champix), was launched on prescription in June 2006 in the USA and December 2006 in the UK. This guidance is to help smoking cessation advisers and other health professionals decide how to manage anticipated demand for this new stop smoking medication. 
Champix is a prescription-only medicine containing the active ingredient varenicline, which can help you to quit smoking. Champix is a medicine specifically designed to help you stop smoking. It works by reducing the cravings and withdrawal symptoms associated with stopping smoking, making the process easier. Champix (varenicline) works by mimicking the effects of nicotine on the brain thus reducing withdrawal symptoms and cravings. Champix stimulates nicotinic receptors in the brain, which relieves the craving and withdrawal symptoms you can get when
DRUG CLASS AND MECHANISM: Varenicline is an oral drug that is used to promote cessation of smoking. It competes with nicotine from cigarettes for binding to nicotine receptors in the brain. Although varenicline stimulates nicotine receptors like nicotine, it blocks the stronger stimulation by nicotine. 
Varenicline is indicated for smoking cessation. In a 2006 randomized controlled trial sponsored by Pfizer, after one year the rate of continuous abstinence was 10% for placebo, 15% for bupropion and 23% for varenicline. Nausea occurs commonly in people taking varenicline. Other less common side effects include headache, difficulty sleeping, and abnormal dreams. Rare side effects reported by people taking varenicline compared to placebo include change in taste, vomiting, abdominal pain, flatulence, and constipation.
Varenicline is a nicotinic receptor partial agonist —it stimulates nicotine receptors more weakly than nicotine itself does. In this respect it is similar to cytisine and different from the nicotinic antagonist, bupropion, and nicotine replacement therapies (NRTs) like nicotine patches and nicotine gum. Nausea occurs commonly in people taking varenicline. Other less common side effects include headache, difficulty sleeping, and abnormal dreams. Rare side effects reported by people taking varenicline compared to placebo include change in taste, vomiting, abdominal pain, flatulence, and constipation.
Indication. CHANTIX is a prescription medication that, along with support, helps adults 18 and over stop smoking. You may benefit from quit-smoking support programs and/or counseling during your quit attempt. It's possible that you might slip up and smoke while taking CHANTIX
How It Works. Varenicline is a pill you take that acts on sites in the brain affected by nicotine. Like nicotine medicines, varenicline helps with craving and withdrawal symptoms. But it also blocks the effects of nicotine from tobacco. If you start smoking again while taking varenicline, the medicine lowers the sense of satisfaction you get from smoking, improving the chances that you will quit.
Chantix is the brand name for the drug varenicline, which is used to help people quit smoking. Chantix blocks certain receptors in the brain so that nicotine cannot bind to them and trigger your desire to smoke. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved Chantix in 2006. Pfizer, Inc. manufactures the drug. A: Chantix (varenicline) is used as an aid for smoking cessation. Chantix is a nicotine receptor partial agonist. It works by blocking the effects of nicotine (from smoking) on the brain. Chantix does have a special warning that it may cause people to have neuropsychiatric events