The length of interphase (phases of mitotic division of a cell) can vary from organism to organism and cell to cell. Interphase includes a few stages: G1: this is the longest phase of the cycle. It follows the mitotic division, and is the part where new cells have the chance to start to growing. Proteins are created by the cell so that DNA can be replicated. Usually takes about 10 hours. S: the length of this phase is unique to the quantity of DNA in that specific cell. This is where chromosomes and DNA are replicated and doubled. It usually takes between 5 and 6 hours to complete. G2: this phase includes the first stage of mitosis.
Usually, cells will take between 5 and 6 hours to complete S phase. G2 is shorter, lasting only 3 to 4 hours in most cells. In sum, then, interphase generally takes between 18 and 20 hours. Mitosis, during which the cell makes preparations for and completes cell division only takes about 2 hours.
Many cells in one stage of mitosis means that that stage takes a long time to complete. During interphase the nucleus of the cell is intact. This phase takes about 80 percent of the time required to complete the cell cycle. During cell division, the nucleus disappears after prophase. 
The duration of time spent in interphase and in each stage of interphase is variable and depends on both the type of cell and the species of organism it belongs to. Most cells of adult mammals spend about 20 hours in interphase; this accounts for about 90% of the total time involved in cell division. An image of the nucleus of a cell (HT1080) currently in interphase (likely G1). Note: Cytoplasm of this cell or the neighboring cell is not visible (top-left), which is currently in the telophase of mitosis. Image taken using an optical microscope and DAPI staining of DNA.
Assume that the number of cells in a phase is an indication of the time spent in that phase during mitosis. Time spent in a mitosis phase and in interphase can be calculated if the total time for mitosis is known. Onion cells require 12 hours (720 minutes) to complete a cell cycle (from interphase to interphase). The amount of time needed for a phase can be calculated using this formula: time for a phase = (number of cells in a phase)/(total number of cells counted)*720 minutes.
Answers. Best Answer: The duration of time spent in interphase and in each stage of interphase is variable and depends on both the type of cell and the species of organism it belongs to. Some human cells divide every 24 hours; in this case interphase takes about 22 hours.. Source(s): http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Interphase. Approximately 23 hours out of twenty-four, according to my Biology teacher, and according to Wikipedia: The duration of time spent in interphase and in each stage of interphase is variable and depends on both the type of cell and the species of organism it belongs to.
Answers. Best Answer: the complete cell cycle takes about 22 hours. Interphase is around 90% of the cell cycle. and yes it is not a phase of mitosis but it sets the stage so to speak. Report Abuse. Well, first of all, Interphase is not a phase in Mitosis. Interphase can be described as the state that a cell is in whever it ISN'T in Mitosis. Interphase includes: G1, S, and G2 phases Mitosis includes: Prophase, Metaphase, Anaphase, and Telophase.
Some human cells divide every 24 hours; in this case interphase takes about 22 hours. Whatever the case, it takes up the majority of time in the cell cycle, because that's when the DNA replicates... etc. Approximately 23 hours out of twenty-four, according to my Biology teacher, and according to Wikipedia: The duration of time spent in interphase and in each stage of interphase is variable and depends on both the type of cell and the species of organism it belongs to.