When it comes to two important aspects of voting rights, the answer may be yes. The first is the use of majority-minority districts. These are political districts in which members of a racial minority make up an effective voting majority. This gives them the ability to participate and elect representatives of their own choosing, and has been the solution of choice in situations where there is, or could be, racial vote dilution. But majority-minority districts give rise to a dynamic that undercuts the very goal they are designed to achieve. While they improve the ability of minority voters to elect a candidate of their choice in a particular district, they also cost their preferred political party other valuable seats in the legislature.
In the United States of America majority-minority or minority-majority area is a United States state or jurisdiction whose population is composed of less than 50% non-Hispanic whites. 1 The whole United States of America is projected to become majority-minority in 2043. 2  With alternate immigration scenarios, the whole U.S. is projected to become majority-minority sometime between 2041 and 2046 (depending on the amount of net immigration into the U.S. over the next 35 years).
This, however, is less the fault of the majority-minority districts than of the second aspect of voting rights: the strict application of the one person, one vote standard. In this column, I will explain why that is, and propose one possible way out of this dilemma. But majority-minority districts give rise to a dynamic that undercuts the very goal they are designed to achieve. While they improve the ability of minority voters to elect a candidate of their choice in a particular district, they also cost their preferred political party other valuable seats in the legislature.
A majority-minority or minority-majority area is a term used in the United States to refer to a jurisdiction in which one or more racial and/or ethnic minorities (relative to the whole country 's population) make up a majority of the local population. 1 The whole United States of America is projected to become majority-minority in 2043. 2  With alternate immigration scenarios, the whole U.S. is projected to become majority-minority sometime between 2041 and 2046 (depending on the amount of net immigration into the U.S. over the next 35 years).
Voting rights attorneys, civil rights groups, and community activists defended majority minority voting districts and to protect them in light of the Shaw decision. In 1982, Congress amended the VRA to include requirements that certain jurisdictions provide minority voters opportunities to elect candidates of their choice. Initially, these jurisdictions turned minority populations into a majority through re-drawing legislative districts.
Majority-Minority District Law & Legal Definition. A majority-minority district refers to a United States congressional district composed of racial or ethnic minorities’ constituents. The following is an example of a case law on majority-minority district: The creation of majority-minority districts does not invariably minimize or maximize minority voting strength. On the one hand, creating majority-black districts necessarily leaves fewer black voters and therefore diminishes black-voter influence in predominantly white districts. 
A majority-minority district is one in which a racial or ethnic minority makes up a large-enough share of the electorate to assure that the community has a reasonable chance to elect the candidate of their choice. It began with the redistricting following the 1990 census. BEfore that, some majority-minority district existed, but out of geographical happenstance (not intentionally). The number of Majority-Minority districts increased with the 1991 redistricting.
One of the ﬁrst considerations of the impact of majority-minority districts on congressional elections, then, is whether the mandates are successful in increasing theelection of minority representatives to Congress. 2.4 Incorporating Majority-Minority Districts When control of the state legislature is uniﬁed partisan, then this trade-oﬀ between bias and responsivenessis one constraint the “in-charge” party faces in choosing its optimal districting plan.
1Minority Turnout and Majority-Minority Districts The creation of majority-minority Congressional districts is an advanced phase of minorityvoting rights protection under the Voting Rights Act (VRA). 