How can I lose weight when I have hypothyroidism and I can't do strenuous exercise? My doctor is still adjusting my thyroid medication, so my TSH (thyroid-stimulating hormone) is still high at 22. Added to that, I've got heart problems and have been told by my cardiologist not to do strenuous exercise! The thyroid gland plays an important role in metabolism, and if your thyroid hormone levels are low, as indicated by a high TSH (thyroid hormone normally suppresses TSH when present at normal levels), your metabolism will be low and you will not burn as many calories every day.
Hypothyroidism: Control the Condition, Control the Weight. The best way to manage weight gain from hypothyroidism is to control the condition. If you get your metabolism back up to speed, the weight shouldn't keep adding up. You'll also have more energy, which can help motivate you to exercise. Hypothyroidism can be treated with a thyroid hormone supplement, which provides the body with the thyroid hormone it needs to keep metabolism at a healthy level.
by HypoThyroid Sufferer. If you have hypothyroidism (underactive thyroid), you will know that losing weight can be problematic. The condition causes you to gain weight, so even if you virtually starve yourself you cannot lose weight. For some, once their underactive thyroid has been treated losing weight becomes easier. As you can see the connection between hypothyroidism and weight loss is strong. It is, like the human body, also complex. The above is only a taste of what needs to be done to help hypothyroid sufferers to lose weight. There are a lot of reasons your thyroid is underperforming.
As far as exercise, 10,000 steps a day is terrific. If you have the time and energy to increase to 15,000 steps per day, that could help. The latest government guidelines suggest that some people may need 90 minutes per day of exercise to lose weight. The thyroid gland plays an important role in metabolism, and if your thyroid hormone levels are low, as indicated by a high TSH (thyroid hormone normally suppresses TSH when present at normal levels), your metabolism will be low and you will not burn as many calories every day.
How can I lose weight when I have hypothyroidism and I can't do strenuous exercise? My doctor is still adjusting my thyroid medication, so my TSH (thyroid-stimulating hormone) is still high at 22. Added to that, I've got heart problems and have been told by my cardiologist not to do strenuous exercise! I do a lot of walking and typically do 10,000 steps a day. I find that most of my patients have to continue working very hard to lose weight even when their TSH is in the normal range. Without knowing your age, height, weight (especially where you tend to carry your excess weight -- in the hips and thighs or in the belly), it's hard to make specific recommendations.
If you have thyroid disease, particularly hypothyroidism, you may find it more difficult to lose weight and feel energetic. You may also find that your weight tends to fluctuate no matter what you do. Shares & Saves. Save. If you have thyroid disease, particularly hypothyroidism, you may find it more difficult to lose weight and feel energetic. You may also find that your weight tends to fluctuate no matter what you do. Sometimes you just start putting on weight when you haven't been overindulgent in your diet.
Hypothyroidism is condition that prohibits you from losing weight no matter how much you diet or exercise. Learn 3 simple tests you can do at home to test your thyroid's activity. 
Hypothyroidism: Why Weight Loss is Tough. When your thyroid is not functioning well, your metabolism goes down and you start to gain weight, says Anne Wolf, RD, MS, a registered dietitian and researcher at the University of Virginia School of Medicine in Charlottesville. If you get your metabolism back up to speed, the weight shouldn't keep adding up. You'll also have more energy, which can help motivate you to exercise. Hypothyroidism can be treated with a thyroid hormone supplement, which provides the body with the thyroid hormone it needs to keep metabolism at a healthy level.
If your thyroid is healthy and your liver is not you may still not lose weight. You need to heal both organs. There are many reasons why your liver may not be functioning well, but one of them is a malfunctioning thyroid. This is another reason why, for people with hypothyroidism, weight loss can be difficult. As you can see the connection between hypothyroidism and weight loss is strong. It is, like the human body, also complex. The above is only a taste of what needs to be done to help hypothyroid sufferers to lose weight. There are a lot of reasons your thyroid is underperforming.