In a study of people taking RISPERDAL ® CONSTA ® , the most common side effects in the treatment of bipolar were weight gain (when used alone) and slow movements, with tremor, stiffness and a shuffling walk (when used with lithium or valproate). This is not a complete list of all possible side effects. If you have any questions about RISPERDAL® CONSTA® or your therapy, talk with your doctor. You are encouraged to report negative side effects of prescription drugs to the FDA. Visit www.fda.gov/medwatch, or call 1-800-FDA-1088. For more information about RISPERDAL® CONSTA®, please read the Important Product Information.
In children and adolescents, risperidone may be more effective than lithium or divalproex, but has more metabolic side effects. As maintenance therapy, risperidone is effective for the prevention of manic episodes but not depression. In 2003, the FDA approved risperidone for the short-term treatment of the mixed and manic states associated with bipolar disorder. In 2006, the FDA approved risperidone for the treatment of irritability in autistic children and adolescents.
Uses. Risperidone is used to treat certain mental/ mood disorders (such as schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, irritability associated with autistic disorder). This medication can help you to think clearly and take part in everyday life. Risperidone belongs to a class of drugs called atypical antipsychotics. A very serious allergic reaction to this drug is rare. However, get medical help right away if you notice any symptoms of a serious allergic reaction, including: rash, itching /swelling (especially of the face/tongue/throat), severe dizziness, trouble breathing. This is not a complete list of possible side effects.
PRESCRIBED FOR: Risperidone is used to treat schizophrenia, bipolar mania alone or combined with lithium (Eskalith, Lithobid) or valproate (Depakene, Depacon) and for the treatment of irritability associated with autistic disorder in children and adolescents. DRUG CLASS AND MECHANISM: Risperidone is an atypical antipsychotic drug that is used for treating schizophrenia, bipolar mania, and autism. Other atypical antipsychotic drugs include olanzapine (Zyprexa), quetiapine (Seroquel), ziprasidone (Geodon), aripiprazole (Abilify) and paliperidone (Invega).
In a study of people taking RISPERDAL® CONSTA® , the most common side effects in the treatment of bipolar disorder were weight gain (when used alone) and tremors (when used with lithium or valproate). If you have any questions about RISPERDAL® CONSTA® or your therapy, talk with your doctor. You are encouraged to report negative side effects of prescription drugs to the FDA. Visit www.fda.gov/medwatch, or call 1-800-FDA-1088. In a study of people taking RISPERDAL ® CONSTA ® , the most common side effects in the treatment of schizophrenia were headache, slow movements, with tremor, stiffness and a shuffling walk, dizziness, restlessness, tiredness, constipation, indigestion, sleepiness, weight gain, pain in the limbs and dry mouth.
Mechanism Of Action. The mechanism of action of RISPERDAL®, in schizophrenia, is unknown. However, it has been proposed that the drug's therapeutic activity in schizophrenia could be mediated through a combination of dopamine Type 2 (D2) and serotonin Type 2 (5HT2) receptor antagonism. The efficacy of RISPERDAL® in the treatment of acute manic or mixed episodes was established in two short-term (3-week) placebo-controlled trials in patients who met the DSM-IV criteria for Bipolar I Disorder with manic or mixed episodes. These trials included patients with or without psychotic features.
Less serious side effects may include: 1  weight gain; 2  feeling hot or cold; 3  headache, dizziness; 4  drowsiness, tired feeling; 5  dry mouth, increased appetite; 6  feeling restless or anxious; 7  sleep problems (insomnia); 8  nausea, vomiting, stomach pain, constipation; 9  cough, sore throat, runny or stuffy nose; or. 10  mild skin rash. SIDE EFFECTS: Drowsiness, dizziness, lightheadedness, drooling, nausea, weight gain, or tiredness may occur. If any of these effects persist or worsen, tell your doctor or pharmacist promptly. To reduce the risk of dizziness and lightheadedness, get up slowly when rising from a sitting or lying position.
Tell your doctor right away if you have any serious side effects, including: difficulty swallowing, muscle spasms, shaking (tremor), mental/mood changes (such as anxiety, restlessness), signs of infection (such as fever, persistent sore throat). A very serious allergic reaction to this drug is rare. However, get medical help right away if you notice any symptoms of a serious allergic reaction, including: rash, itching /swelling (especially of the face/tongue/throat), severe dizziness, trouble breathing. This is not a complete list of possible side effects.