The cerebrum is the largest portion of the brain, and contains tools which are responsible for most of the brain's function. It is divided into four sections: the temporal lobe, the occipital lobe, parietal lobe and frontal lobe. Many different parts of the brain and their functions are shown in the article. The human brain is ultimately responsible for all thought and movement that the body produces.
Areas of the Brain and their Functions. The brain is divided into lobes as illustrated above and below: Frontal Lobes. The frontal lobes are part of the Cerebral Cortex and are the largest of the brain's structures. They are the main site of so–called 'higher' Cognitive functions. The frontal lobes determine personality and contain the area called the motor cortex that controls movement of the muscles of the body (the motor cortex on the right half of the brain controls the left side of the body and vice versa).
Brain is the central part of the nervous system which governs the functions of various organs in the body. It is quite interesting to know what are the different regions of the brain and how these regions function. This article dealing with brain regions and their functions will help you understand what part of your brain controls the mental activities. Read on...
The brain consists of three main regions: Cerebrum, Cerebellum and the Medulla Oblongata (Brain Stem). The Cerebrum is the largest part of the brain that controls thought, me … mory and the senses. The Cerebellum is involved in the coordination of voluntary motor movement, balance and equilibrium and muscle tone. The areas within these regions that might be affected by alcohol exposure in the womb: In the brainstem: Reticular Activating System (RAS) - filters important and unimportant information from sensory input.
The most interesting fact about brain regions and their functions is that right side of the brain controls the physical activities performed by the left half of the body and the left half of the brain controls the activities performed by the right side of the body. It is quite interesting to know what are the different regions of the brain and how these regions function. This article dealing with brain regions and their functions will help you understand what part of your brain controls the mental activities. Read on...
Cereberum,Cerebellum and Medulla Oblongata.   The cerebrum or cortex is the largest part of the human brain,  associated with higher brain function such as thought and ac … tion.   Cerebellum is associated with regulation and coordination of  movement, posture, and balance. Its functions are very organized. For example, one part of the brain, called the cerebellum, helps the bodies muscles work together. The cer … ebellum helps control body movements. Below the cerebellum is the brainstem. The brainstem controls many activities that are automatic, for example, breathing and heartbeat.
Major Brain Regions. The fore-brain is the largest part of the brain which consists of the cerebrum, thalamus and the hypothalamus. The cerebrum is further divided into two hemispheres, the right hemisphere and the left hemisphere. It is quite interesting to know what are the different regions of the brain and how these regions function. This article dealing with brain regions and their functions will help you understand what part of your brain controls the mental activities. Read on...
3: Brain regions and their functions. Certain parts of the brain govern specific functions. For example, the cerebellum is involved with coordination; the hippocampus with memory. Nerve cells (neurons) are the basic unit of communication in the brain.
The Cerebellum: The cerebellum, or little brain, is similar to the cerebrum in that it has two hemispheres and has a highly folded surface or cortex. This structure is associated with regulation and coordination of movement, posture, and balance. The brain is made of three main parts: the forebrain, midbrain, and hindbrain. The forebrain consists of the cerebrum, thalamus, and hypothalamus (part of the limbic system). The midbrain consists of the tectum and tegmentum. The hindbrain is made of the cerebellum, pons and medulla. Often the midbrain, pons, and medulla are referred to together as the brainstem. The Cerebrum: The cerebrum or cortex is the largest part of the human brain, associated with higher brain function such as thought and action. The cerebral cortex is divided into four sections, called lobes: the frontal lobe, parietal lobe, occipital lobe, and temporal lob