.   Catholic AnswerThe Catholic Bible is a translation, in the Old Testament, of the Sep … tuagint, which is the Bible that was used by Our Blessed Lord, Himself, and the New Testament which was written by the first generation of Catholics, and assembled in the fifth century, as we have it today.
The United States Conference of Catholic Bishops has approved a number of different translations of the Bible for private use by English-speaking Catholics in the United States, but the New American Bible is the only English-language version authorized for use in Mass.
In order to more fully appreciate the Catholic Church's understanding of the Bible, one must first grasp the Church's view of Divine Revelation as a whole. The Catholic Church teaches that during the Old Testament God revealed Himself in increasing measure to His people.
The Catholic Church uses the Lectionary which is based on the New Vulgate Bible for use in Mass and other services. Catholics are free to use any translation they want as long as it has an Imprimatur and Nilhi Obstat.
Accepted Catholic Versions. English-speaking Catholics used the Douay-Rheims translation of the Catholic Bible until the 1960s. In 1943, Pope Pius XII called for renewed study of the original scriptural texts to create newer and more accurate translations.
Today many still believe that the Catholic Church endeavored to keep the Bible from the people. This demonstrates the Church's dismal performance in public relations over the past 500 years, for nothing could be farther from the truth.
The Greek Catholic Church uses the same Bible editions that the other Catholic churches use (i.e. the churches in communion with the see of Rome - -Roman Catholic, Syrian Cath … olic, Ruthenian Catholic, Maronite, etc.).
The Roman Catholic church teaches that it is the original church built by Jesus and that non-Catholic churches are departures from Catholicism. The New Testament often warns us of the danger of false teaching and apostasy (Acts 20:28-30; 2 Tim. 4:2-4; I Tim.
In summary, the Catholic Bible is the version of the Bible promoted by the Roman Catholic Church and used by the majority of the world s Catholics. Aside from the inclusion of the Apocrypha, the Catholic Bible is identical to Protestant Bibles in terms of the canon (the books belonging in the Bible).