3 photos: Sinking of the HMS Bounty. Capt. Robin Walbridge – Sailors in the tall ship community have criticized Walbridge's decision to leave safe harbor in New London, Connecticut, on a voyage to Florida while Hurricane Sandy approached. If the management and the captain of the sunken tall ship HMS Bounty had exercised the proper responsibility, judgment and prudence, the deaths of two people would have been prevented, according to a U.S. Coast Guard investigation report released Thursday.
HMS Bounty, also known as HM Armed Vessel Bounty, was a small merchant vessel purchased by the Royal Navy for a botanical mission. The ship, under the command of William Bligh, was sent to the Pacific Ocean to acquire breadfruit plants and transport them to British possessions in the West Indies. That mission was never completed, due to a mutiny led by Acting Lieutenant Fletcher Christian. This was the famous Mutiny on the Bounty
The HMS Bounty, a 180-foot sailboat, is shown submerged in the Atlantic Ocean during Hurricane Sandy approximately 90 miles southeast of Hatteras, North Carolina, Monday, October 29, 2012. Photo: Pat Jarrett/Polaris. HMS Bounty. Ground crew from Coast Guard Air Station Elizabeth City, North Carolina, assist one of the sailors from the tall ship Bounty from an MH-60 Jayhawk helicopter to a hanger at the air station
The HMS Bounty, a 180-foot sailboat, is shown submerged in the Atlantic Ocean during Hurricane Sandy approximately 90 miles southeast of Hatteras, North Carolina. Petty Officer 2nd Class Tim Kuklewski / USCG via Reuters file. 
Built in Lunenburg, Nova Scotia in 1960, she sank off the coast of North Carolina during Hurricane Sandy on 29 October 2012. The tall ship was often referred to as HMS Bounty, but was not entitled to the use of the prefix HMS as it was not commissioned into the Royal Navy. Here HMS is treated as part of the popular name, and not as a ship prefix.
3 photos: Sinking of the HMS Bounty. Sinking of the HMS Bounty – A 50-year-old replica of the 18th century square rigger HMS Bounty sank off North Carolina on October 29, 2012 during Hurricane Sandy. Sixteen crew were aboard. Fourteen were rescued. Deckhand Claudene Christian, 42, died and Capt. Robin Walbridge, 63, was never found. If the management and the captain of the sunken tall ship HMS Bounty had exercised the proper responsibility, judgment and prudence, the deaths of two people would have been prevented, according to a U.S. Coast Guard investigation report released Thursday.
3 photos: Sinking of the HMS Bounty. Sinking of the HMS Bounty – A 50-year-old replica of the 18th century square rigger HMS Bounty sank off North Carolina on October 29, 2012 during Hurricane Sandy. Sixteen crew were aboard. Fourteen were rescued. Deckhand Claudene Christian, 42, died and Capt. Robin Walbridge, 63, was never found. By the time the captain and crew realized the ship was sinking, the Bounty was tossing in 30-foot seas and being battered by 103 mph winds about 100 miles off Cape Hatteras. During the Coast Guard hearings 14 surviving crew members testified. Not one leveled any blame for the disaster at their shipmates or at Walbridge.
+ More. The U.S. Coast Guard has opened an investigation into the sinking of the HMS Bounty. The three-masted tall ship became one of Superstorm Sandy’s first American casualties when its crew was forced to abandon ship early Monday morning. 
Chris Barksdale of Nellysford, Virginia, survived the wreck of the HMS Bounty off the coast of North Carolina when Hurricane Sandy hit. Photograph taken at his home on Monday, November 12, 2012. HMS Bounty. Ground crew from Coast Guard Air Station Elizabeth City, North Carolina, assist one of the sailors from the tall ship Bounty from an MH-60 Jayhawk helicopter to a hanger at the air station Monday, October 29, 2012.