The muscular system is responsible for the movement of the human body. Attached to the bones of the skeletal system are about 700 named muscles that make up roughly half of a person’s body weight. Each of these muscles is a discrete organ constructed of skeletal muscle tissue, blood vessels, tendons, and nerves. The main function of the muscular system is movement. Muscles are the only tissue in the body that has the ability to contract and therefore move the other parts of the body. Related to the function of movement is the muscular system’s second function: the maintenance of posture and body position.
(Also Called 'Normal Structure and Function of the Musculoskeletal System-Anatomy'). A basic primer on bones, muscles, tendons, ligaments, nerves, and cartilages. The skeletal system includes the bones of the skeleton and the cartilages, ligaments, and other connective tissue that stabilize or connect the bones. 1 Skeletal muscles — These muscles contract to pull on tendons and move the bones of the skeleton. 2  In addition to producing skeletal movement, muscles also maintain posture and body position, support soft tissues, guard entrances and exits to the digestive and urinary tracts, and maintain body temperature.
The musculoskeletal system provides form, support, stability, and movement to the body. It is made up of the bones of the skeleton, muscles, cartilage, tendons, ligaments, joints, and other connective tissue that supports and binds tissues and organs together. The musculoskeletal system's primary functions include supporting the body, allowing motion, and protecting vital organs. These diseases can be difficult to diagnose due to the close relation of the musculoskeletal system to other internal systems. The musculoskeletal system refers to the system having its muscles attached to an internal skeletal system and is necessary for humans to move to a more favorable position.
The musculoskeletal system is the combination of the muscular and skeletal systems working together and includes the bones, muscles, tendons and ligaments of the body. 
musculoskeletal system, all of the muscles, bones, joints, and related structures, such as the tendons and connective tissue, that function in the movement of body parts and organs. See also the Color Atlas of Human Anatomy. 
The human musculoskeletal system (also known as the locomotor system, and previously the activity system) is an organ system that gives humans the ability to move using their muscular and skeletal systems. These diseases can be difficult to diagnose due to the close relation of the musculoskeletal system to other internal systems. The musculoskeletal system refers to the system having its muscles attached to an internal skeletal system and is necessary for humans to move to a more favorable position.
You won't believe these 10 facts about people. All of the bones, cartilage, muscles, joints, tendons and ligaments in a person's body compose what is known as the musculoskeletal system. The bones provide the body with a framework, giving it shape and support; they also serve as protection for internal organs such as the lungs and liver. The knee joint and the bones it's composed of are part of the musculoskeletal system. The muscles of the back. The vertebrae, which protect the spinal cord, are irregularly shaped. One function of the musculoskeletal system is to protect the internal organs and hold them in place.
Descriptions of Musculoskeletal System. Musculoskeletal System: the system of muscles and tendons and ligaments and bones and joints and associated tissues that move the body and maintain its form. Source: WordNet 2.1. Musculoskeletal System: all of the muscles, the bones, and the cartilages of the body. 