A salary cap is essentially an agreement between the league and players that places a limit on the amount of money a team can spend on salaries for players. The NFL uses a hard cap, meaning that no team is allowed to exceed the cap limit for any reason. Along with a team minimum salary, the league itself must spend 95 percent of the cap in 2013. This means that all teams combined must average 95 percent of the cap or higher. If the league fails to meet this mark, they must pay the remaining amount needed directly to players.
1 The salary cap is set by assigning a percentage of all hockey-related revenue (HRR) to player salaries. 2  The definition of hockey-related revenue remains unchanged form the 2005-2012 collective agreement. 3  For the life of this CBA, the players will receive 50 percent of HRR. 1 For the remaining years of the CBA, the salary cap cannot fall below $64.3 million. 2  As of 2014-15, the salary cap will be set every year according to projected NHL revenues for the coming season, based on a 50/50 revenue split between players and teams.
In sports, a salary cap is a preset limit on the amount of money that teams can spend on player salaries over the course of one year. There are two forms of salary caps-a hard cap and a soft cap. A hard cap, which is used by leagues such as the NFL and NHL, means that teams can not spend above a certain amount or else they will be subject to potentially severe sanctions. A soft cap, on the other hand, is when teams are allowed to spend above a certain amount if they are willing to incur a financial penalty (usually known as a luxury tax). Both Major League Baseball (MLB) and the National Basketball Association (NBA) employ soft caps with luxury taxes.
Most major sports leagues throughout the world employ some sort of a salary cap. A salary cap is a limit on the amount of money that teams can spend on player salaries every year. Now, there are two kinds of salary caps-hard caps and soft caps. A soft cap is when a team is allowed to spend over the salary cap as long as they are willing to pay a fee, which is usually known as a luxury tax. 
Like many professional sports leagues, the NHL has a salary cap to keep teams in larger markets (with more revenue) from signing all of the top players and extending their advantage over smaller-market franchises. A salary cap existed in the early days of the National Hockey League (NHL). The 1994–95 NHL lockout was fought over the issue of the salary cap. The 1994–95 season was only partially cancelled, with 48 games and the playoffs eventually being played. Although, at the time, six NHL franchises were based in Canada, by the turn of the century nearly all NHL salaries were being paid in U.S. dollars.
The lockout was resolved when the NHLPA agreed to a hard salary cap based on league revenues, although the NHL reciprocated by implementing revenue sharing which would allow for a higher cap figure. The NHL salary cap is formally titled the Upper Limit of the Payroll Range in the new CBA. For the 2005–06 NHL season, the salary cap was set at US$ 39 million per team, with a maximum of $7.8 million (20% of the team's cap) for a player. The 1994–95 NHL lockout was fought over the issue of the salary cap. The 1994–95 season was only partially cancelled, with 48 games and the playoffs eventually being played. Although, at the time, six NHL franchises were based in Canada, by the turn of the century nearly all NHL salaries were being paid in U.S. dollars.
In professional sports, a salary cap (or wage cap) is an agreement or rule that places a limit on the amount of money that a team can spend on player salaries. The limit exists as a per-player limit or a total limit for the team's roster, or both. The lockout was resolved when the NHLPA agreed to a hard salary cap based on league revenues, with the NHL implementing revenue sharing to allow for a higher cap figure. The NHL salary cap is formally titled the Upper Limit of the Payroll Range in the new CBA.
During the Great Depression, for example, the league was under financial pressure to lower its salary cap to $62,500 per team, and $7,000 per player, forcing some teams to trade away well paid star players in order to fit the cap. The 1994–95 NHL lockout was fought over the issue of the salary cap. The 1994–95 season was only partially cancelled, with 48 games and the playoffs eventually being played. Although, at the time, six NHL franchises were based in Canada, by the turn of the century nearly all NHL salaries were being paid in U.S. dollars.
The Players' Share: 1  The salary cap is set by assigning a percentage of all hockey-related revenue (HRR) to player salaries. 2  The definition of hockey-related revenue remains unchanged form the 2005-2012 collective agreement. 1 For the remaining years of the CBA, the salary cap cannot fall below $64.3 million. 2  As of 2014-15, the salary cap will be set every year according to projected NHL revenues for the coming season, based on a 50/50 revenue split between players and teams.
The NHL decides how much money the teams can spend on player salaries, based on a slice of the total revenues generated by the league in the previous season. The cap puts restrictions on that amount — namely, a ceiling (the maximum players can be paid) and a floor (the minimum). 'Hockey-related revenue'. Right now, the salary cap is dependent on the NHL's financial success in the season. The industry's earnings — known as hockey-related revenues — help to dictate the payroll formula. A more profitable year for the NHL is reflected in higher salary cap ceilings for players.