It is not easy to pick up the baby's heartbeat even when you are using a fetal doppler. You should move the probe continuously until the fetal heartbeat is picked up or heard. The picked up sound waves are normally sent to the fetal doppler's monitor from where they can be observed. 
You're likely to hear your baby's heartbeat for the first time at your dating scan. This usually happens between 10 weeks and 13 weeks plus six days, although your baby's heart will have been beating from about six weeks onwards. Hearing your baby's tiny heart beating for the first time is an exciting moment. You'll hear a rapid drumming sound that's about twice as fast as your heartbeat. You may also hear your baby's heartbeat at one of your antenatal appointments. Your midwife is unlikely to listen for it while you're still in your first trimester, as it can be hard to detect at this stage.
Most women first hear their baby's heartbeat during a routine checkup that uses the fetal Doppler early in their pregnancy. Many ultrasound machines also allow the heartbeat to be heard even before it can be heard with a handheld Doppler. Most women now get an ultrasound prior to 12 weeks. Keep in mind that a baby's heartbeat is much faster than an adult's. If you're in your first trimester and you can't hear your baby's heartbeat, don't worry. Dopplers can't reliably detect a baby's heartbeat until 10 to 12 weeks. Your doctor may try again on your next visit. An ultrasound may give you clearer results.
1 Confirming the presence of your baby’s heartbeat. 2  You may have gone to your doctor with vaginal bleeding or you may be anxious because of problems in a previous pregnancy (such as miscarriage). 3  This ultrasound can routinely detect a heartbeat in your baby as early as 6-7 weeks. 
A fetal Doppler device uses ultrasound to map the uterus and playback representations of the fetal heart rate. Your baby’s heart will start beating around 5 or 6 weeks gestation, and it can sometimes be heard as early as 8 weeks (with ultrasound). Smartphones have microphones that are sensitive enough to pick up your baby’s heartbeat. You can simply download an application – such as the new Health & Parenting Tiny Beats Baby Heartbeat Monitor App – and easily monitor your baby’s heart rate from home.
* You can start to hear the babies heartbeat through ultrasound as soon as 6 weeks into your pregnancy! A Doppler can start to pick up a heartbeat at around 10-14 weeks into your pregnancy. A stethoscope can be used to hear the baby's heartbeat late in the pregnancy. * If you have an early scan it can be seen from about 6 weeks. If listening with a Doppler and you are very slim sometimes (not always) it can be heard from about 8 weeks. About 3 months, usually respiratory system of the baby develops at 12 weeks of age. ** The fetus's heart starts beating at five weeks gestation. Through an ultrasound you … can see the ultrasound at about 6-7 weeks. With a fetal Doppler you can hear the heart beat at about 9 weeks.
maternal fetal medicine specialist. The baby's heart starts to beat at around 6 weeks. You may be able to hear – and see – your baby's heart beat for the first time when you're about 8 weeks pregnant if you have an early ultrasound exam. Otherwise, you'll probably first hear it with a fetal Doppler at a regular prenatal care visit. Your caregiver may be able to find it with the Doppler as early as 10 weeks, but it's more common to hear it at 12 weeks. How early the sound can be picked up depends on your baby's position in your uterus, your weight, and the accuracy of your due date
It may do. But in the first few months of pregnancy it's hard to hear your baby's heartbeat, whatever your size. You should be able to see your baby's heart beating at your dating scan between 10 weeks and 13 weeks plus six days of pregnancy. Your midwife will wait until your 16-week check before even trying to pick up your baby's heartbeat. How soon your midwife will be able to hear it depends on a number of factors. So, whatever your weight, it may sometimes be tricky for your midwife to pick up your baby's heartbeat. Try not to worry if you can't hear your baby's heartbeat at your 16-week appointment.
Your baby's heart beats between 110 times and 160 times per minute. You may also hear your baby's heartbeat at one of your antenatal appointments. Your midwife is unlikely to listen for it while you're still in your first trimester, as it can be hard to detect at this stage.