So when the Cochrane review says. Cranberries (usually as cranberry juice) have been used to try and prevent urinary tract infections (UTIs). Cranberries contain a substance that can prevent bacteria from sticking on the walls of the bladder. This may help prevent bladder and other urinary tract infections. This review identified 10 studies (1049 participants) comparing cranberry products with placebo, juice or water. There was some evidence to show that cranberries (juice and capsules) can prevent recurrent infections in women.
Drink lots of fluids, especially water and cranberry juice. That can help by changing the acidity of the urine thereby making it a more difficult environment for bacteria to live in. Hydration helps to dilute same bacteria. This is actually done to prevent and help uti improve. Drinking lots of water and Cranberry juice will help, but if you truly have an infection then you will need an antibiotic. The infection will only get worse without an antibiotic and can quickly spread to the kidneys.
But even if cranberry juice doesn’t help much or at all with preventing UTI’s directly, drinking more fluids when you have a UTI is helpful for flushing out bacteria and the Proanthocyanidins and Flavonols in cranberry juice may well help a bit in that process, it just won’t specifically cure the infection. With that being said I drink pure cranberry juice (water cranberries and their pulp) when I develop a UTI. It honestly does work great, I woke up yesterday morning with one and started to down the juice along with water and its gone today.
Camesano said people should not self-treat urinary tract infections, and anyone who suspects they have an infection should see a doctor, but drinking cranberry juice may be an easy, inexpensive way to help keep E. coli at bay. In the event of a urinary tract infection, antibiotics are the most common treatment. How Cranberry Juice Treats Urinary Tract Infections. A mixture of cranberry juice, water, and sweeteners found in cranberry juice cocktail was used for the study because it is the most popular cranberry beverage.
The short answer is probably not according to recent research on the subject, though of course there are certainly many who swear by this method of getting rid of / preventing urinary tract infections (UTI’s) and there are good theories behind why cranberry juice could potentially help. With that being said I drink pure cranberry juice (water cranberries and their pulp) when I develop a UTI. It honestly does work great, I woke up yesterday morning with one and started to down the juice along with water and its gone today.
For years, cranberry juice has been touted as the natural way to prevent and treat bladder and urinary tract infections (UTI). But a comprehensive review of studies has found the claims have been overhyped. 
Here's an overview of the evidence: The Pros. A few studies have found that drinking cranberry juice or taking cranberry pills can prevent UTIs, especially in women who are at risk for these infections: 1  One study looked at women who had a history of urinary tract infections caused by E. coli bacteria. 1 Women who drank 1.7 ounces of cranberry-lingonberry juice concentrate every day for six months lowered their risk of getting a UTI by 20% compared to women who didn't use any intervention.
You may have a UTI if you suddenly have pain or burning when you urinate, have a constant urge to use the bathroom, have a fever, feel pressure in your lower abdomen and your urine is cloudy or smells bad. You can try to relieve UTI symptoms by drinking a lot of fluids, such as water or cranberry juice. Cranberry juice in doses of 4 to 10 oz. of pure juice, or 114 to 296ml, a day reportedly helps treat and prevent recurrences of UTI. You can also drink several 16-oz. or 500ml glasses of unsweetened cranberry juice from concentrate daily.
Aug. 23, 2010 -- Scientists report that within eight hours of drinking cranberry juice, the juice could help prevent bacteria from developing into an infection in the urinary tract. How Cranberry Juice Treats Urinary Tract Infections. A mixture of cranberry juice, water, and sweeteners found in cranberry juice cocktail was used for the study because it is the most popular cranberry beverage.
Drinking cranberry juice is good for your body. Cranberry juice is a great beverage, with important antioxidants that help reduce your risk of heart disease. Antioxidants also strengthen your immune system, allowing your body to fight off infections. The myth about cranberry juice may have started because the juice helps alleviate some of the discomfort and pain of a urinary tract infection. In addition, studies have shown drinking cranberry juice can help reduce your risk of getting a UTI.