Desert: Plants Short grasses, sagebrush, creosote bushes, and cacti are just a few of the plants that can be found in the desert. Plant abundance and variety are determined by the geographic location of the desert. 
5. Also known as Hesperocallis, these flowering plants are found in the desert areas of North America, Mexico, California and Arizona. These flowers are funnel-shaped, cream-colored flowers that bloom in March and stay on till May. This plant is a common sight in the deserts. 6. The desert marigolds belong to the aster family and are commonly found in the south western parts of the US and in Mexico. They are annual and short lived perennial plants which grow between 10 and 30 inches and have very hairy leaves.
Desert Marigold. The desert marigolds belong to the aster family and are commonly found in the south western parts of the US and in Mexico. They are annual and short lived perennial plants which grow between 10 and 30 inches and have very hairy leaves. 6. The desert marigolds belong to the aster family and are commonly found in the south western parts of the US and in Mexico. They are annual and short lived perennial plants which grow between 10 and 30 inches and have very hairy leaves.
The desert biome is one that is very hot and dry. They are found at the lower latitudes, between the Tropic of Cancer and the Tropic of Capricorn. Light winds occur often which evaporates any type of moisture that is typically going to develop in them. That is the only desert biome where it grows. It has a long truck and then wide leaves that are very hard. It can create a sap that is very dark red in color. The aloe plant is also found in the desert biome. Aloe has always been a very important type of natural healing medicine.
Most desert species have found remarkable ways to survive by evading drought. Desert succulents, such as cacti or rock plants (Lithops) for example, survive dry spells by accumulating moisture in their fleshy tissues. 
Outside the U.S. hot, dry deserts are found in the Southern Asian realm, South and Central America, Ethiopia and Australia. Another type of desert is the coastal desert, for example, the Atacama Desert in Chile of South America. And then there are cold deserts. LOCATION: Although few animals and plants are adapted to the extremely dry desert life, the desert is a vital biome. The desert is important because it covers about a fifth of the earth's surface! There are both hot and
Desert Lily. Also known as Hesperocallis, these flowering plants are found in the desert areas of North America, Mexico, California and Arizona. These flowers are funnel-shaped, cream-colored flowers that bloom in March and stay on till May. This plant is a common sight in the deserts. 6. The desert marigolds belong to the aster family and are commonly found in the south western parts of the US and in Mexico. They are annual and short lived perennial plants which grow between 10 and 30 inches and have very hairy leaves.
The Barrel cactus is found in the Mojave, Sonora, and the Chihuahua deserts. These deserts are found in the land of Speedy and the Roadrunner: Baja, Arizona, California, Texas, and Central Mexico. The barrel cactus grows in the desert washes and slopes, but can also be spotted growing along canyon walls.
Xerophytes are plants that have adapted to live in the dry, hot conditions of the desert. These plants have a waxy outer coating to help the plant retain moisture, along with other adaption of their seeds, roots and leaves to help them thrive and retain moisture for extended periods until water is available. 