1 You can make any variety rice or khichdi with the millets just substitute millet for rice. 2  In the varagu sadam pic above you see I used 2 and 1/2 cups of water to get it grain separated as I wanted to make lemon rice with it. 
Let’s welcome Millets back into our meals Millets-Millet is the name given to a group of cereals other than wheat, rice, maize & barley. They are mostly tiny in size, round in shape & ready for usage as it is. 
Foxtail Millet. Fox tail millet (Hindi: Kutki, Kannada: Same) – Comes in the form of rice, semolina and flour. Have the highest mineral content, 2nd highest world production of all the millets. Eaten commonly as rice, roti, dosa, idli. Eating Right: 7 millets that grow in your backyard and what you can do with them. Your favourite idli, dosa, payasam, appams and bisi bele baath just got a whole lot healthier! Millets you can use in your daily diet.
Foxtail millet/ thinai. Foxtail millet known as thinai in Tamil,Kangni/Rala in Hindi,Navane in Kannada,Korra in telugu & thina in Malayalam is first of millet varities that was used in ancient days.Foxtail millet is high in carbohydrates.It is rich in dietry fiber and minerals such as copper & iron. 
What you can make with millets. Millets can be used to a whole variety of food that we consume everyday. They are ideal replacements to wheat and rice for their higher nutritional value. Eating Right: 7 millets that grow in your backyard and what you can do with them. Your favourite idli, dosa, payasam, appams and bisi bele baath just got a whole lot healthier! Millets you can use in your daily diet.
Millets are a group of highly variable small-seeded grasses, widely grown around the world as cereal crops or grains for fodder and human food. Millets are important crops in the semiarid tropics of Asia and Africa (especially in India, Nigeria, and Niger), with 97% of millet production in developing countries. The crop is favored due to its productivity and short growing season under dry, high-temperature conditions. Other countries in Africa where millets are a significant food source include Ethiopia, Nigeria and Uganda. Millet is also an important food item for the population living in the drier parts of many other countries, especially in eastern and central Africa, and in the northern coastal countries of western Africa.
While millets are indigenous to many parts of the world, it is believed that they had an evolutionary origin in tropical western Africa, as that is where the greatest number of both wild and cultivated forms exist. Millets have been important food staples in human history, particularly in Asia and Africa. Other countries in Africa where millets are a significant food source include Ethiopia, Nigeria and Uganda. Millet is also an important food item for the population living in the drier parts of many other countries, especially in eastern and central Africa, and in the northern coastal countries of western Africa.
You have searched the English word Millet  meaning in Hindi जौ jau. Millet meaning has been search 7850 (seven thousand eight hundred and fifty) times till 10/6/2015. You can also find Millet meaning and Translation in Urdu, Arabic, Hindi, Spanish, French and other languages. English to Hindi. Similarly, a foreigner can use online dictionary to communicate the tough English words in Hindi to native Hindi speakers. The translations are freely available online and are the essence of this page. The major objective of this dictionary is to provide an authentic access to English translation of Hindi words.
2.Wash and add 3 cups of water and switch on the heat. 3.When water starts boiling, reduce the heat to low, close it with a lid and cook for 10 minutes. You can reduce the water to 2 1/2 cup for 1 cup of millet for preparing variety rice but personally I prefer 3 cups of water for 1 cup of millets. Once it cools it becomes fluffy and is suitable for any variety rice also. Note-You can pressure cook millets in the same way as you cook pressure cook rice. 
Millets, seeded grains or cereal crops, are used as a major food crop in India and are used for various purposes. Millets have protein content higher than both Wheat and Rice individually. Millets form a major food source in the country. Moreover, millets are also used as fodder and bird-food. 