Although the nervous system is very complex, there are only two main types of cells in nerve tissue. The actual nerve cell is the neuron. It is the conducting cell that transmits impulses and the structural unit of the nervous system. The other type of cell is neuroglia, or glial, cell. The word neuroglia means nerve glue..
A neuron is able to conduct electrical signals and/or neural impulses by means of the movement of electrically charged ions along and into and out of sections of the neuron. … A neural signal is initiated in a neuron as neurotransmitter chemicals are released by another neuron into a small space near the neuron. 
The cells in nervous tissue that generate and conduct impulses are called neurons or nerve cells. These cells have three principal parts: the dendrites, the cell body, and one axon. The main part of the cell, the part that carries on the general functions, is the cell body. 
A typical neuron consists of a cell body (soma), dendrites, and an axon. The term neurite is used to describe either a dendrite or an axon, particularly in its undifferentiated stage. A neuron (/ˈnjʊərɒn/ NYEWR-on or /ˈnʊərɒn/ NEWR-on; also known as a neurone or nerve cell) is an electrically excitable cell that processes and transmits information through electrical and chemical signals. These signals between neurons occur via synapses, specialized connections with other cells.
Two general types of cells are found in the nervous system: neurons and neuroglia. A. Neurons 1. Consist of three main parts—dendrites (conduct impulses to cell body of neuron); cell body of neuron; and axon (conducts impulses away from cell body of neuron) 2. The nervous system transmits information rapidly by means of nerve impulses conducted from one body area to another. The nervous system is made up of the brain and spinal cord, and the many nerves of the body.
Neurons. Neurons, or nerve cells, carry out the functions of the nervous system by conducting nerve impulses. They are highly specialized and amitotic. This means that if a neuron is destroyed, it cannot be replaced because neurons do not go through mitosis. The actual nerve cell is the neuron. It is the conducting cell that transmits impulses and the structural unit of the nervous system. The other type of cell is neuroglia, or glial, cell. The word neuroglia means nerve glue..
Report Abuse. An axon or nerve fiber is a long, slender projection of a nerve cell, or neuron, that conducts electrical impulses away from the neuron's cell body or soma. Axons are in effect the primary transmission lines of the nervous system, and as bundles they help make up nerves. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Yes, nerve cells conduct impulses away from the cell body. The cell body receives electrochemical signals from elsewhere. If the cell body receives enough of these kinds of signals, it will depolarize and send an AP along the axon,
Dendrites carry the impulses towards the cell body. Axons carry the messages away from the cell body. There is a tiny gap between two successive neurons This gap is known as synapse. The impulses are transmitted from the axon of one neuron to the dendrite of another neuron across the synapse through chemical substances. nss · 9 years ago.
Neurons • Neurons –cells that transmit nerve impulses•3 Types of Neurons –Sensory neurons carry impulses from sense organs to the spinal cord and brain–Motor neurons carry impulses from the brain and spinal cord to muscles and glands–Interneurons connect sensory and motor neurons and carry impulses between them. 