1 Kidney infection is one of a number of infections that can involve the urinary tract. 2  Infection of the kidney is very common, especially in young females. 3  Causes of kidney infection are bacteria that have gained entry to the urinary tract, usually via the anus or vagina. 1 Kidney infections are not contagious. 2  Symptoms of kidney infection are. 3  fever, 4  chills, 5  abdominal pain, 6  nausea, 7  vomiting, 8  painful urination, and. 9  a need to urinate frequently. 10  Treatment of kidney infection involves oral or intravenous antibiotics.
Symptoms of Pyelonephritis. At least half of women have experienced the discomfort with urination caused by a urinary tract infection: painful, urgent, or frequent urination. Pyelonephritis may start with similar symptoms. However, once the infection has spread to the kidney, signs of more severe illness usually result. They include: 1  Back pain or flank pain. 2  Fever (usually present) or chills. 3  Feeling sick (malaise). 4  Nausea and vomiting. 5  Confusion (especially in the elderly). Bacteria enter the body from the skin around the urethra. They then travel up the urethra to the bladder. Sometimes, bacteria escape the bladder and urethra, traveling up the ureters to one or both kidneys. Pyelonephritis is a potentially serious kidney infection that can spread to the blood, causing severe illness.
Signs and symptoms of a kidney infection may include: 1  Fever. 2  Back, side (flank) or groin pain. 3  Abdominal pain. 4  Frequent urination. 5  Strong, persistent urge to urinate. 6  Burning sensation or pain when urinating. 7  Pus or blood in your urine (hematuria). 8  Urine that smells bad or is cloudy. 
The most common bacteria causing urinary tract infection or kidney infection are those that are normally seen in the vagina, gastrointestinal tract, or skin. By far, the most common organism causing urinary tract infection is Escherichia coli (E. coli), responsible for up to 80% of kidney and urinary infections. Sexual intercourse may increase the risk of urinary tract infections in women. Kidney infection may be facilitated by the introduction of bacteria from outside (vagina) to the urinary system through the urethra. Pregnant women may also be at higher risk for developing urinary tract
Signs and Symptoms of Kidney Infection. Kidney infections often cause urinary problems, such as the need to urinate more often, an inability to urinate, blood in the urine (hematuria), and pus in the urine. Infections also can cause changes in urine color or odor. Other symptoms of kidney infections include the following: 1  Back or abdominal pain. 2  Confusion. 
Kidney infection facts. 1  Kidney infection is one of a number of infections that can involve the urinary tract. 2  Infection of the kidney is very common, especially in young females. 3  Causes of kidney infection are bacteria that have gained entry to the urinary tract, usually via the anus or vagina. 1 Kidney infections are not contagious. 2  Symptoms of kidney infection are. 3  fever, 4  chills, 5  abdominal pain, 6  nausea, 7  vomiting, 8  painful urination, and. 9  a need to urinate frequently. 10  Treatment of kidney infection involves oral or intravenous antibiotics.
Causes of kidney infection. A kidney infection happens when bacteria infects your kidneys. The bacteria are usually a type called E. coli, which live in your bowel. The bacteria get in through the opening of the urethra and move upwards through your urinary tract, first infecting your bladder and then your kidneys. 
Kidney Infection Causes. Kidney and urinary tract infections may be caused by bacteria invading the urine, which is normally a sterile body fluid. Bacteria most commonly gain access to the urine through the urethra, which can be exposed to bacteria from outside of the body. Sexual intercourse may increase the risk of urinary tract infections in women. Kidney infection may be facilitated by the introduction of bacteria from outside (vagina) to the urinary system through the urethra. Pregnant women may also be at higher risk for developing urinary tract infections.
Kidney stones are another factor that may increase the likelihood of urinary tract infection. Stones can cause partial or complete obstruction to the flow of urine from the kidneys and ureters. This obstruction may act as a focus of infection in the urinary system, leading to urinary tract infections. Sexual intercourse may increase the risk of urinary tract infections in women. Kidney infection may be facilitated by the introduction of bacteria from outside (vagina) to the urinary system through the urethra. Pregnant women may also be at higher risk for developing
In this article. Most urinary tract infections (UTIs) involve only the bladder and urethra (the lower urinary system). Pyelonephritis results when a UTI progresses to involve the upper urinary system (the kidneys and ureters). The kidneys filter the blood to produce urine. Bacteria enter the body from the skin around the urethra. They then travel up the urethra to the bladder. Sometimes, bacteria escape the bladder and urethra, traveling up the ureters to one or both kidneys. Pyelonephritis is a potentially serious kidney infection that can spread to the blood, causing severe illness.