Scleroderma facts. 1  Scleroderma is a disease of the connective tissue featuring skin thickening that can involve scarring, blood vessel problems, varying degrees of inflammation, and is associated with an overactive immune system. 2  CREST syndrome is a limited form of systemic sclerosis. Autoimmune diseases are illnesses that occur when the body's tissues are attacked by its own immune system. Scleroderma is characterized by the formation of scar tissue (fibrosis) in the skin and, potentially, in the organs of the body.
Overview of Scleroderma. Mayo Clinic. Scleroderma is both a rheumatic disease and a connective tissue disease. The term rheumatic disease refers to a group of conditions characterized by inflammation and/or pain in the muscles, joints, or fibrous tissue. A connective tissue disease is one that affects tissues such as skin, tendons, and cartilage. NIAMS. Symptoms. Systemic Scleroderma Symptoms. Systemic sclerosis (scleroderma) can affect every part of the body, including the skin, blood vessels, and all of the internal organs. There are also dozens of associated conditions and related autoimmune diseases.
Scleroderma, or systemic sclerosis, is a chronic autoimmune disease characterized by the hardening of the skin and connective tissues. People with scleroderma have higher amounts of collagen deposits in their body than those who are healthy. 
Scleroderma is an autoimmune, rheumatic, and chronic disease that affects the body by hardening connective tissue. (“Connective tissue” is widespread. It adds strength to organs and other parts of the body.) Connective tissue is made of many kinds of proteins. Among them is collagen of the skin. 
Systemic sclerosis (systemic scleroderma) is a chronic connective tissue disease of unknown etiology that causes widespread microvascular damage and excessive deposition of collagen in the skin and internal organs. Raynaud phenomenon and scleroderma (hardening of the skin) are hallmarks of the disease. The typical patient is a young or middle-age woman with a history of Raynaud phenomenon who presents with skin induration and internal organ dysfunction.
Scleroderma is an autoimmune disease of the connective tissue characterized by skin thickening, spontaneous scarring, blood vessel disease, and varying degrees of inflammation, associated with an overactive immune system. Autoimmune diseases are illnesses that occur when the body's tissues are attacked by its own immune system. Scleroderma is characterized by the formation of scar tissue (fibrosis) in the skin and, potentially, in the organs of the body.
The systemic type or systemic sclerosis, the generalized type of the disease, can be fatal, as a result of heart, kidney, lung or intestinal damage. It is currently not fully understood what exactly causes this disease, although there are various theories. Yes. Scleroderma is a connective tissue disease that occurs due to excess collagen build up. It causes the skin, tissues, and internal organs to gradually harden and tighten over time. Consequently, it slowly kills its victim.
1 Scleroderma is a disease of the connective tissue featuring skin thickening that can involve scarring, blood vessel problems, varying degrees of inflammation, and is associated with an overactive immune system. 2  CREST syndrome is a limited form of systemic sclerosis. Autoimmune diseases are illnesses that occur when the body's tissues are attacked by its own immune system. Scleroderma is characterized by the formation of scar tissue (fibrosis) in the skin and, potentially, in the organs of the body.
Systemic sclerosis or systemic scleroderma is an autoimmune or connective tissue disease. It is characterized by thickening of the skin caused by accumulation of collagen, and by injuries to the smallest arteries. 
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Yes. Scleroderma is a connective tissue disease that occurs due to excess collagen build up. It causes the skin, tissues, and internal organs to gradually harden and tighten over time. Consequently, it slowly kills its victim. It's a terrible illness