The Myer Centre, Brisbane, corner of Albert and Elizabeth Streets. The Myer Centre is located between the Queen Street Mall and Elizabeth Street in Brisbane, Queensland, Australia. It is a nine-floor shopping complex which includes Queensland's largest Myer department store, and is open to the public seven days a week. The Myer Centre has the added benefit of being the hub for the Brisbane CBD. Most buses originate and end near or under the Myer Centre. The Myer Centre Car Park is also one of the largest car parks in the heart of the city with easy access to everything in the city
Become a Myer Centre VIP member and you could win a Strictly Ballroom Package valued at over $1,000*. T&C apply, for more information: http://bit.ly/1POLkfK. Entry forms are located at our Strictly Ballroom the Musical exhibition on level 1 until Sunday 27th September 2015.our favourite day of the week just got a whole lot more fun with MYER SUPER SATURDAY SALE today only. Update your clothes, shoes, underwear, why not update everything with these savings. Remember today ONLY at Myer. — at The Myer Centre.
The Myer Centre added 7 new photos to the album: Some Father's Day inspiration from Oxfam Shop — at The Myer Centre. September 18 at 3:30pm ·. There's lots to do in the city these school holidays and to celebrate we're offering 50% off weekday shopper saver rates when you book online and use voucher code: HOLIDAY.our favourite day of the week just got a whole lot more fun with MYER SUPER SATURDAY SALE today only. Update your clothes, shoes, underwear, why not update everything with these savings. Remember today ONLY at Myer.
The closest and most convenient parking is in the Myer Centre Car Park-accessible from Elizabeth Street. Pricing: Mon-Fri before 1:30pm - $18. Mon to Fri after 1:30pm - $5. Sat, Sun & PH's - $5 (all day). Please present your parking ticket at the box office for validation. Send your enquiry. See all the latest blockbusters in the heart of the city at Event Cinemas, The Myer Centre, the home of VMAX........Bigger screen, bigger seat, bigger sound, maximum impact!
At the intersection of Queen Street and Albert Street at the centre of the mall is a 15-metre-high (49 ft) steel structure designed to provide shade and cover from the weather. The Brisbane City Council announced in 2009 that Burnett Lane, a narrow laneway that runs between George Street and Albert Street, and parallel to the mall, would be refurbished and integrated into the Queen Street Mall precinct. On 8 March 2013, the mall was the scene of a siege.
By public transport. Bus stop is located on Level A of the Myer Centre. So hop in the lift and head up to level 3. Get off train at Central Station, walk down Edward Street, to the Queen Street Mall. Head up the mall to the Myer Centre, take the lift to Level 3 where the cinemas are located. Send your enquiry. See all the latest blockbusters in the heart of the city at Event Cinemas, The Myer Centre, the home of VMAX........Bigger screen, bigger seat, bigger sound, maximum impact!
Your favourite day of the week just got a whole lot more fun with MYER SUPER SATURDAY SALE today only. Update your clothes, shoes, underwear, why not update everything with these savings. Remember today ONLY at Myer. — at The Myer Centre. September 18 at 3:30pm ·. There's lots to do in the city these school holidays and to celebrate we're offering 50% off weekday shopper saver rates when you book online and use voucher code: HOLIDAY.
The Myer Centre is the Brisbane CBD's largest shopping centre. It has almost 200 stores spread across 6 floors including Queensland's largest department store, Myer, as well as Target and Birch Carroll and Coyle. Broadway on the Mall is a four level shopping centre with around 60 stores. The Brisbane City Council announced in 2009 that Burnett Lane, a narrow laneway that runs between George Street and Albert Street, and parallel to the mall, would be refurbished and integrated into the Queen Street Mall precinct. On 8 March 2013, the mall was the scene of a siege.
Queen Street Mall prior to its 1999 refurbishment. The Queen Street Mall is a pedestrian mall located on Queen Street in the centre of Brisbane, Queensland, Australia. The Brisbane City Council announced in 2009 that Burnett Lane, a narrow laneway that runs between George Street and Albert Street, and parallel to the mall, would be refurbished and integrated into the Queen Street Mall precinct. On 8 March 2013, the mall was the scene of a siege.