This usually means no home-grown tomatoes in winter, unless you have a greenhouse. You can, however, grow tomatoes indoors, but they are usually smaller and produce less prolifically than their summer cousins. Choose appropriate varieties when growing indoor tomatoes and learn the tips on how to grow tomatoes indoors. Then that fresh, sweet flavor can be yours all winter long. Starting Winter Growing Tomatoes. Sow tomato seeds inside in seed starter mix. Plant them ¼ inch deep in 6 inch pots. Keep the soil lightly moist and in a warm location to germinate.
An alternative to staking tomatoes is to grow each plant inside a cylinder of mesh. Purchase 180 cm wide light mesh with 10 cm squares (not less). Allow a 75-0 cm (30-36 in) length for each cylinder. Form into a cylinder 25-30 cm across and 180 cm high. Place and secure these with a stake over each new seedling. 
From the seeds I sowed in July (Growing Tomatoes in Melbourne – Part 1) I planted a Rouge DeMarmande, a Sweet F1 Hybrid Cherry, Black Krim and A Baby Red Pear. All grow pretty big so I put in three stakes per plant to train their stalks up. The stakes are about 30cm apart with roughly 60cm between plants. 
How to Ripen Green Tomatoes Indoors. You can enjoy the flavor of fresh-from-the-vine tomatoes in winter if you treat them properly. Learn... Just one encounter with a tasteless, artificially ripened, imported winter supermarket tomato makes you want to grow your own tangy, sweet-tasting tomatoes in the off-season. One final advantage to growing a tomato vine indoors in winter becomes clear in spring: You have a ready source of plant material from which to take blossoming cuttings for a jump-start on the outdoor tomato season of summer.
TOMATOES. There is nothing like the taste of a freshly picked tomato, warm from the sunshine. In the smallest of gardens or even an apartment with a window-box, it is worth growing at least one tomato plant for the pleasure it will give you. They will grow in pots, troughs or even hanging baskets. (Best months for growing Tomato in Australia-temperate regions). S = Plant undercover in seed trays. T = Plant out (transplant) seedlings. August: Frost tender. Start undercover. 1  Grow in seed trays, and plant out in 4-6 weeks. 2  Sow seed at a depth approximately three times the diameter of the seed.
Published on Sep 2, 2013. Growing Tomatoes on the Coast in Australia http://happyhouseandgarden.com. In the last day of winter on the Gold Coast in Queensland Australia I went to visit a friends waterfront vegetable garden. Quite impressive for a winter veggie patch. 
You cannot get better tasting tomatoes than from your own garden, and they are a constant food source right through summer. Even in the middle of winter when it is cold and the temperature is near freezing, it is still possible to grow tomatoes but with special facilities. 
Best Tomatoes to Grow Indoors. You will have the most success at growing indoor tomatoes if you choose varieties that perform better inside. You need smaller varieties that will have room in indoor settings. Small upright varieties are ideal. Starting Winter Growing Tomatoes. Sow tomato seeds inside in seed starter mix. Plant them ¼ inch deep in 6 inch pots. Keep the soil lightly moist and in a warm location to germinate.
Cherry Tomatoes. Growing tomatoes in the Western Australian climate is so simple anyone can do it. In temperate climates like Western Australia seeds can be planted from August to December providing tomatoes through summer and into autumn. 
3. Place the tomato plant in an appropriate container. To grow the tomato plant large enough to produce fruit, you will need to grow it in a large container. A plastic 5 gallon (18.9 L) bucket is ideal, but a larger container will also work. Avoid using anything smaller than about 5 gallons (19 L)