News, notes and thoughts from Blue Water Baltimore. How to Keep Your Rain Barrels Free of Mosquitoes. Liquid Dish Soap. Use one tablespoon once a week or after each storm. Mosquito Dunks. Use one 1 dunk once a month or as needed. Vegetable Oil. Use ¼ cup once a week or after each storm. · by Vincent Vizachero. Your rain barrel is designed to keep mosquitoes out, but there is no guarantee that these pesky creatures won’t find a crack in the system. The fail-safe way is to drain all of the water within five days of the rain barrel filling up
From this site : * Keep a goldfish in the barrel to eat mosquito larvae, or, * Add a tablespoon of dish soap or ½ cup bleach to the water inside your barrel, or, * Add anti-mosquito larvae, available at garden centres, or. * Drain your barrel water every one to two weeks. By: dowcrag. One way is to make sure the top of the barrel is screened using no-see-um mesh. The most effective way to discourage mosquitoes is empty the barrel as soon as possible after a rainfall so there is no standing water. The screen on the rain barrel is for debris not mosquitoes and you can place a piece of a window screen to stop the mosquitoes from entering the barrel.
1 To prevent mosquitoes from laying eggs, add a tablespoon of dish soap or 1⁄4 cup of vegetable oil to form a film on the top of the water.  2 A diverter should be part of your rain barrel so overflow can be redirected away from the foundation of your house. 
This creates a fine film on the top of the barrel and discourages mosquitoes from breeding there. Another way to do the same thing is to use about 1 tablespoon of an eco-friendly dish soap, which typically contains coconut or vegetable oils. 1  Dig This. 3. Look for any other standing water around the rain barrel. If your barrel tends to get really full fast and has a tendency to overflow, you may have excess water pooling under it or nearby -- which makes another great breeding ground for mosquitoes.
Collecting your own rain water to use on your garden saves you money and prevents excess storm water from overflowing your sewers. Those are encouraging reasons to use the barrels -- but if those rainwater collectors also become collectors of mosquito swarms, they're not going to seem so handy. Mosquitoes breed in standing water, so your rain barrels are the perfect attractant -- unless you take a few measures to stop them from getting in. 3. Look for any other standing water around the rain barrel. If your barrel tends to get really full fast and has a tendency to overflow, you may have excess water pooling under it or nearby -- which makes another great breeding ground for mosquitoes.
A small amount of oil floating on top of the water in a rain barrel or container water garden can smother mosquito larvae. Usually 1/4 teaspoon of mineral oil, vegetable oil, light horticultural oil or Neem oil per gallon of water will be sufficient, or use 1 tablespoon per 100 square feet. Cleaning Mosquitoes Clocks. Liquid soap in water has also been proved to kill mosquito larvae. However, it could leave your water looking a bit sudsy. For this purpose, 1/16 teaspoon of dish-washing detergent or shampoo per gallon of water should work within two days.
Therefore, if mosquitoes make it into the barrel to lay their eggs, they drown before they get a chance. Use ecofriendly liquid soap to prevent additional pollution and prevent damage to your plants if you use your harvested water for irrigation. · by Vincent Vizachero. Your rain barrel is designed to keep mosquitoes out, but there is no guarantee that these pesky creatures won’t find a crack in the system. The fail-safe way is to drain all of the water within five days of the rain barrel filling up
When used as directed, it will not adversely affect humans, animals, birds, fish or vegetation.5. Suffocation: Another way to keep mosquitoes from using your rain barrel is keep a layer of oil on top of the water. Mix a drop of dish soap with a small amount of vegetable oil pour on the surface of the water. The oil will prevent the larvae from effectively breathing atmospheric oxy-gen. There are many ways to keep mosquitoes from developing in your rain barrel. The following are six ways to prevent mosquitoes in a container: 1. Source Reduction: If you completely use the water within 5 days, the mos-quitoes will not have enough time to develop.