Continue reading the main story. THE FACTS Nothing but time can cure the common cold, but a simple cup of salt water might ease the misery this winter. A sore, itchy throat and respiratory congestion are some of the more common symptoms of a cold, and gargling with salt water seems to help for several reasons. According to the Mayo Clinic, for best results, dissolve half a teaspoon of salt in a full glass of warm water and gargle the solution for a few seconds before spitting it out. Adults who want a more palatable remedy against cough and sore throat can try mixing warm water with lemon and honey. No need to spit it out.
not only for gargling, salt relieves nasal passages when inhaled. i suggest sea salt dissolved in warm water(1/2 teaspoon in 1/4 cup water) and a paper towel dipped in solution. hold the saturated paper towel, or kleenex, next to nose and inhale. a couple of breaths later-relief! no need for neti pots. Gargling With Salt Water for Colds. In a randomized study published in The American Journal of Preventive Medicine in 2005, researchers recruited almost 400 healthy volunteers and followed them for 60 days during cold and flu season.
Report Abuse. While swishing salt water over sores in the mouth does help. A cold sore is typically on the outside of the lips which could be difficult to medicate with Salt Water. I would recommend Abrevia, an otc med that really works and in my experience works fast. 
Salt-water rinsing helps break nasal congestion, while also removing virus particles and bacteria from your nose. Here's a popular recipe: Mix 1/4 teaspoon salt and 1/4 teaspoon baking soda in 8 ounces of warm water. Use a bulb syringe or nasal irrigation kit to squirt water into the nose. Hold one nostril closed by applying light finger pressure while squirting the salt mixture into the other nostril. Let it drain.
Best Answer: The best treatment for cold sores is a prescription of Valtrex, ask your doctor about it. I used to get terrible cold sores....as in in several in a row. My doctor put me on Valtrex six years ago and I haven't have a serious outbreak since (by serious I mean a blister that is visible to others). I was dissapointed with your question, for I thought is said Salt Water and Cold Stone) as in the ice cream, so I was like Excellent. But yah, it works. also get salt on your finger and push it against the Cold Stone (Sore). The Awesomeness · 8 years ago. Thumbs up.
I’m w/ Rie. As an RN the use of salt water for gargling is nothing new for sore throats, but for prevention-that is new-news. Hydrogen peroxide and water also helps eliminate a sore throat. But, I’m not certain if it prevents a cold. Thus far, the best remedy I’ve found to prevent a cold or the flu is common sense. 
Yes. I was dissapointed with your question, for I thought is said Salt Water and Cold Stone) as in the ice cream, so I was like Excellent. But yah, it works. also get salt on your finger and push it against the Cold Stone (Sore). The Awesomeness · 8 years ago. Thumbs up.
A good rule of thumb is to use only enough salt so that the water tastes just salty, not WHOA, SALTY! I usually do 3 10-second gargles in a row, 3-4 times a day when I have a cold. 
YES, YES salt water gargling DOES work. For at least 4-5 years now, whenever I feel that “tickle” in my throat that warns of an oncoming cold, IMMEDIATELY I gargle…then within another 2 hours, I repeat and one more time. With those 3 times, I beat a sore throat and the accompanying cold every time. Gargling With Salt Water for Colds. In a randomized study published in The American Journal of Preventive Medicine in 2005, researchers recruited almost 400 healthy volunteers and followed them for 60 days during cold and flu season.
Soothe a sore throat. A saltwater gargle — 1/4 to 1/2 teaspoon salt dissolved in an 8-ounce glass of warm water — can temporarily relieve a sore or scratchy throat. Children younger than 6 years are unlikely to be able to gargle properly. You can also try ice chips, sore throat sprays, lozenges or hard candy. The list of ineffective cold remedies is long. A few of the more common ones that don't work include: 1  Antibiotics. 2  These attack bacteria, but they're no help against cold viruses. 3  Avoid asking your doctor for antibiotics for a cold or using old antibiotics you have on hand.