1 Chloroplast: a part of a cell found in plants that converts light energy into energy plants can use (sugar). 2  Other living organisms such as algae also have cells that contain chloroplasts. 3  Thylakoid: the disk-shaped parts of a plant cell where light-dependent reactions occur... 4  more. show/hide words to know. 1  Chlorophyll: the pigment that gives plants their green color and allows them to absorb sunlight... 2  Chloroplast: a part of a cell found in plants that converts light energy into energy plants can use (sugar)
Functions of the leaf. Chloroplasts chloroplast: Microscopic structure containing chlorophyl found in green plant cells where photosynthesis takes place. are the tiny structures in plant cells where photosynthesis happens. Chloroplasts contain chlorophyll chlorophyll: The green chemical inside the chloroplasts of plant cells. It enables photosynthesis to take place. , a green pigment that absorbs light energy for photosynthesis. However, chloroplasts are not found in all plant cells. For example, they are not found in root hair cells root hair cell: Tiny hairs covering the ends of the smallest roots. They give the root a very large surface area through which to absorb water and mineral salts from the soil.
Chloroplast: Structure. Plant chloroplasts develop mainly in cells located in plant leaves. Chloroplasts and other plastids develop from cells called proplastids. Proplastids are immature, undifferentiated cells that develop into different types of plastids. A proplastid that develops into a chloroplast, only does so in the presence of light. 
They are also found in the cells of other organisms that use photosynthesis. Chloroplasts take the energy from the sunlight and use it to make plant food. The food can be used immediately to give cells energy or it can be stored as sugar or starch. show/hide words to know. 1  Chlorophyll: the pigment that gives plants their green color and allows them to absorb sunlight... 2  Chloroplast: a part of a cell found in plants that converts light energy into energy plants can use (sugar). 3  Thylakoid: the disk-shaped parts of a plant cell where light-dependent reactions occur...
chloroplasts can be located in many places in a leaf.. guard cells,spongy mesophyll, palisade mesophyll, Palisade mesophyll contains the most amount of chloroplasts.... beca … use that is where the energy from the sun is trapped, therefore the plant needs to have many chloroplasts in order to capture the light energy.. Chloroplasts are the food producers of the cell. They are only found in plant cells and some protists. Plants are the basis of all life on Earth. They create sugars, and the … byproduct of that process is the oxygen that we breathe.
chloroplasts can be located in many places in a leaf.. guard cells,spongy mesophyll, palisade mesophyll, Palisade mesophyll contains the most amount of chloroplasts.... beca … use that is where the energy from the sun is trapped, therefore the plant needs to have many chloroplasts in order to capture the light energy..
Located in plant cells are large irregular shaped green structures called chloroplasts. They are green because they contain a green pigment called chlorophyll. Chlorophyll captures the energy of sunlight which can be used to help produce food for the plant cell. 
Hi Chloroplasts are found mainly in the leaves. Chloroplasts are the part of certain plant cells that contain chlorophyl to pick up sunlight and use this energy to combine carbon dioxide from the atmosphere with water (and a few other things in minor amounts) to make the sugars and starches that the plant lives on. 
Chloroplasts are organelles present in plant cells and some eukaryotic organisms. Chloroplasts are the most important plastids found in plant cells. It is the structure in a green plant cell in which photosynthesis occurs. Chloroplast is one of the three types of plastids. 
Plant cells have certain distinguishing features, including chloroplasts, cell walls, and intracellular vacuoles. Photosynthesis takes place in chloroplasts; cell walls allow plants to have strong, upright structures; and vacuoles help regulate how cells handle water and storage of other molecules. eBooks. Besides the presence of chloroplasts, another major difference between plant and animal cells is the presence of a cell wall. The cell wall surrounds the plasma membrane of plant cells and provides tensile strength and protection against mechanical and osmotic stress.