Mastocytosis (urticaria pigmentosa) is a mostly harmless condition where your child has more than the normal number of mast cells in the body. Mast cells are found in everyone in the skin, bowels, gut (stomach), lungs and air passages. Mast cells do not usually cause problems. Some medications can stimulate mast cells to release histamine. It is better that your child avoids these. For example, pain killers, cough medicines and anaesthetics can cause problems. Always check medications with your child's doctor. If your child is having surgery, inform the anaesthetist about the mastocytosis.
Mastocytosis is characterized by an overabundance of normal, active mast cells. The increase in mast cells is usually localized to the skin, but occasionally occurs in other organs as a systemic disorder. Mastocytosis can present at any age, from the newborn period onward. Symptoms of mastocytosis occur when pharmacologic or physical stimuli cause mast cell degranulation and release of histamine, prostaglandins, leukotrienes and other chemical mediators. These episodic attacks can be manifested by flushing, urticaria or, in extreme cases, by life-threatening vascular collapse
Causes of Anxiety From Mastocytosis. Most anxiety from mastocytosis is related to either attacks of systemic mastocytosis or simply living with the condition (such as in the case of cutaneous mastocytosis). In general, however, mastocytosis doesn't literally cause anxiety as symptom. Rather, anxiety develops because living with the symptoms is difficult. How Anxiety Relates to Mastocytosis. Living with a chronic health condition can be a serious challenge. In the case of mastocytosis, the physical consequences can take a very serious emotional toll, and so it's no surprise that many of those living with the chronic health condition end up suffering from severe anxiety.
Systemic Mastocytosis and Anxiety. Most mastocytosis is cutaneous, and the cutaneous version doesn't necessarily create any symptoms that directly cause anxiety. Some people may find that they are more self-conscious about their disorder, and others may have trouble living with the symptoms, which include: 1  Fatigue. 2  Abdominal Discomfort. 3  Headache. How Anxiety Relates to Mastocytosis. Living with a chronic health condition can be a serious challenge. In the case of mastocytosis, the physical consequences can take a very serious emotional toll, and so it's no surprise that many of those living with the chronic health condition end up suffering from severe anxiety.
Mastocytosis is a disorder that can occur in both children and adults. It is caused by the presence of too many mast cells in your body. You can find mast cells in skin, lymph nodes, internal organs (such as the liver and spleen) and the linings of the lung, stomach, and intestine. Mast cells play an important role in helping your immune system defend these tissues from disease.
Mastocytosis is characterized by an excessive number of apparently normal mast cells in the skin and, occasionally, in other organs. Characteristic skin lesions, called urticaria pigmentosa, are present in most patients, but clinical presentation can vary from a pruritic rash to unexplained collapse and sudden death. Mastocytosis can present at any age, from the newborn period onward. Symptoms of mastocytosis occur when pharmacologic or physical stimuli cause mast cell degranulation and release of histamine, prostaglandins, leukotrienes and other chemical mediators.
Doctors don't know exactly why some people have too many mast cells. Some of the things that trigger the release of histamine from mast cells also cause the symptoms of mastocytosis. Symptoms may be triggered by cold or heat, certain medicines, emotional stress and insect bites.
Mastocytosis (say “mas-toe-sigh-toe-sis”) is a rare disease of the skin (the most common form), or of other parts of the body (very rare), like the stomach, the intestines and the bone marrow. It's caused by having too many mast cells. Mast cells are a kind of blood cell. Mastocytosis can occur at any age. 
Overview. Mastocytosis is a condition that occurs when mast cells accumulate in skin and/or internal organs such as the liver, spleen, bone marrow, and small intestines. The signs and symptoms vary based on which part(s) of the body are affected. There are two main forms of mastocytosis: cutaneous and systemic. 