1 Cyclic anhydrides derived from dicarboxylic acids are name as-dioic anhydrides. 2  Functional group is an acid anhydride therefore suffix = - oic anhydride. 3  Hydrocarbon structure is an alkane therefore-an-. 4  The longest continuous chain is C2 therefore root = eth. 1 As the name implies, acid anyhydrides are derivatives of carboxylic acids. 2  In principle, they can be symmetric (where the two R groups are identical) or asymmetric (where the two R groups are different). 3  Symmetric anhydrides are the most common, they are named as alkan
Functional Groups. A. functional group. is a defined grouping of atoms in an organic molecule. A given functional group exhibits a. characteristic set of chemical properties, which are largely independent of the rest of the structure of the molecule in. which it is found. As a consequence, an understanding of the chemical behavior of the functional groups allows one. to predict the reactivity of a wide variety of organic molecules. CH 32M/30 28M Functional Groups A functional group is a defined grouping of atoms in an organic molecule.
Generic example of a carboxylic anhydride with the blue marked functional group. An organic acid anhydride is an acid anhydride that is an organic compound. An acid anhydride is a compound that has two acyl groups bonded to the same oxygen atom. Mixed (or unsymmetrical) acid anhydrides, such as acetic formic anhydride (see below), are known. One or both acyl groups of an acid anhydride may also be derived from another type of organic acid, such as sulfonic acid or a phosphonic acid.
In organic chemistry, functional groups are specific groups of atoms within molecules arranged in a specific manner. The following tables list common functional groups arranged by heteroatom. The symbols R, R', R'' and R''' usually denote a hydrocarbon chain or a hydrogen but can sometimes be any group of atoms. 
Acetic anhydride, or ethanoic anhydride, is the chemical compound with the formula (CH 3 CO) 2 O. Commonly abbreviated Ac 2 O, it is the simplest isolable anhydride of a carboxylic acid and is widely used as a reagent in organic synthesis. 
1 Aspirin (acetylsalicylic acid) is an aromatic compound containing both a carboxylic acid functional group and an ester functional group. 2  Aspirin is a weak acid that is only slightly soluble in water. Aspirin contains polar functional groups which can form hydrogen bonds with polar water molecules. Aspirin is more soluble in basic (alkaline) solutions, so it readily dissolves in the duodenum which is the first part of the intestine.
A common type of organic acid anhydride is a carboxylic anhydride, where the parent acid is a carboxylic acid, the formula of the anhydride being (RC(O)) 2 O. Symmetrical acid anhydrides of this type are named by replacing the word acid in the name of the parent carboxylic acid by the word anhydride. Mixed (or unsymmetrical) acid anhydrides, such as acetic formic anhydride (see below), are known. One or both acyl groups of an acid anhydride may also be derived from another type of organic acid, such as sulfonic acid or a phosphonic acid.
· just now. Report Abuse. -NH2, phenol are your functional groups, and it's the amine group that will react with acetic anhydride. Acetic anhydride acts like an acid, and remember amine is an organic base. Phenol is a weak acid. unean_amigo · 8 years ago. Thumbs up. 
Thus, (CH 3 CO) 2 O is called acetic anhydride. Mixed (or unsymmetrical) acid anhydrides, such as acetic formic anhydride (see below), are known. One or both acyl groups of an acid anhydride may also be derived from another type of organic acid, such as sulfonic acid or a phosphonic acid.