Many people with narcissistic personality disorder don’t seek out treatment. People with personality disorders, in general, do not often seek out treatment until the disorder starts to significantly interfere or otherwise impact a person’s life. In order for a person to be diagnosed with narcissistic personality disorder (NPD) they must meet five or more of the following symptoms: 1  Has a grandiose sense of self-importance (e.g., exaggerates achievements and talents, expects to be recognized as superior without commensurate achievements).
Narcissistic personality disorder treatment is centered around talk therapy, also called psychotherapy. Psychotherapy can help you: 1  Learn to relate better with others so your relationships are more intimate, enjoyable and rewarding. Medications. There are no medications specifically used to treat narcissistic personality disorder. However, if you have symptoms of depression, anxiety or other conditions, medications such as antidepressants or anti-anxiety drugs may be helpful.
Narcissistic Personality Disorder. Individuals with narcissistic personality disorder generally believe that the world revolves around them. This condition is characterized by a lack of ability to empathize with others and a desire to keep the focus on themselves at all times. 1  Definition. 2  Symptoms
Whatever anybody says the truth is that you are the only person who can cure your narcissistic personality disorder. Any cure – that is any solution that eliminates the problem, rather than just masking it or making it better, by definition involves breaking the mental ties between and your flight-or-fight responses. 
Now as for whether Narcissistic Personality Disorder is curable – we say that in the right family environment sometimes it is. However dealing with a person who has considerable charm, but no real connection to their morality is NOT something you should take on lightly. 
Serendipity wrote:Xander wrote:Why is it that most mental disorders people generally seem to be believe are 'curable' yet narcissism is generally seen as incurable? What makes narcissism so special?NPD is a personality disorder. I don't know if any of the personality disorders are truly curable. Most are very treatable however, and with therapy, the person can live within their disorder with some element of control. 
Definition. Narcissistic personality disorder is a mental disorder in which people have an inflated sense of their own importance, a deep need for admiration and a lack of empathy for others. But behind this mask of ultraconfidence lies a fragile self-esteem that's vulnerable to the slightest criticism. A narcissistic personality disorder causes problems in many areas of life, such as relationships, work, school or financial affairs. You may be generally unhappy and disappointed when you're not given the special favors or admiration you believe you deserve.
Narcissistic personality disorder facts. 1  Narcissistic personality disorder is a mental disorder that is characterized by an established pattern of being fixated on oneself, permeating the thoughts, feelings, and actions of the sufferer, and their relationships with others. 1 People with narcissistic personality disorder demonstrate a pervasive pattern of significantly inflated self-esteem, a need to be admired, and lack of empathy for others that begins by early adulthood and manifests in a number of different aspects of their life.
Narcissistic personality disorder (NPD) is a personality disorder in which a person is excessively preoccupied with personal adequacy, power, prestige and vanity, mentally unable to see the destructive damage they are causing to themselves and others. It is a cluster B personality disorder. 