The given Yemen location map shows that Yemen is located in the south-western part of Asia. Yemen map also illustrates that Yemen is one of the Middle East countries that shares its international boundaries with Saudi Arabia in the north and Oman in the east. Besides, Gulf of Aden lies in the south and Red Sea lies in the west. Furthermore, Yemen is constituted of more than 200 islands; among them the largest one is Socotra that lies about 415 km south from the mainland of Yemen. The climate type of Yemen ranges from semi-arid to arid.
Yemen is on the continent of Asia, in the Middle East. Yemen is on the south coast of Saudi Arabia, on the Arabian Peninsula in the Middle East. Liberia is in Africa.
Following World War II, Yemen became a member of both the Arab League and the United Nations. Divided into two parts for decades; the Yemen Arab Republic (North) and the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (South) the country finally unified as the Republic of Yemen in 1990.
Yemen is a country with a small population which is located in the continent/region of Asia. Countries near Yemen include Djibouti, Eritrea, Saudi Arabia and Oman. Its biggest cities and towns include Aden, Ibb, Sayyan and Zabīd. 
Yemen is located in southwest Asia on the southern tip of the  Arabian Peninsula. Yemen is bordered by Saudi Arabia to the north,  Oman to the east, the Red Sea to the west … and the Indian Ocean to  the South.   It's an Arabian neighborhood. It is adjacent to Syria. Yemen is on the south coast of Saudi Arabia, on the Arabian Peninsula in the Middle East. Liberia is in Africa.
Best Answer: Yemen is in the continent of Asia. To be more specific, it is in Southwest Asia, also called the Middle East. In what continent is Yemen in ??????? me and my teacher had a discussion and were trying to find what continent is yemen in.
Yemen (/ˈjɛmən/ ; Arabic: اليَمَن ‎ al-Yaman), officially known as the Republic of Yemen (الجمهورية اليمنية al-Jumhūrīyah al-Yamanīyah), is an Arab country in Southwest Asia, occupying the southwestern to southern end of the Arabian Peninsula. It is bordered by Saudi Arabia to the north, the Red Sea to the west, the Gulf of Aden and Arabian Sea to the south, and Oman to the east. Although Yemen's constitutionally stated capital is the city of Sana'a, the city has been under rebel control since February 2015.
Yemen is located in Southwest Asia at the southern tip of the Arabian Peninsula between Oman and Saudi Arabia. It is situated at the entrance to the Bab-el-Mandeb Strait, which links the Red Sea to the Indian Ocean (via the Gulf of Aden) and is one of the most active and strategic shipping lanes in the world. Yemen has an area of 527,970 square kilometres (203,850 sq mi), including the islands of Perim at the southern end of the Red Sea and Socotra at the entrance to the Gulf of Aden.
Yemen itself is a country. It is located in the southwestern area of Asia on the Arabian peninsula. 9 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  Europe on a Budget: 21 Free Walking Tours in Europe Walking tours can be a great way to get to know a new city. 