Report Abuse. 6 or 7 minutes will give you pretty much a hard boiled egg. I time mine for 3 - 4 minutes once the water returns to a boil. I take them out of the water after 3 and by time my toast is buttered they are done just right. Cooked white and runny yolk. Just did this a couple of days ago actually. 
Bring water to boil in a pot. (Boil just enough water that will cover how many eggs you are going to be cooking.) Once water has come to a bowl gently put eggs into water usin … g a spoon-as to not crack the eggs. Then set your timer for 9 minutes. Place eggs in a large pot. Cover with 2 inches of cold water. Heat  over medium high heat until water begins to boil. Once boiling,  turn off the heat, cover the pot and let … sit for 12 minutes.
Soft boiled: 2 minutes The white is solid, but the yolk is still runny. Serve in an egg cup for breakfast. Use the side of a small spoon to crack and remove the pointed end of the egg, making a hole in the shell large enough to fit the spoon. Or use egg scissors, if you have them. 
Bring the water up to a boil, then lower it to a rapid simmer. Add the eggs to the pot, and then begin timing. If you're just cooking one or two eggs, five minutes is perfect for a runny yolk, or cook as long as seven minutes for a more firmly set, but still spoonable, yolk. If you're cooking three or four eggs, add an extra few seconds to your timing.
Put eggs in water and bring to a boil. Remove pot from heat as soon as boiling temperature is reached. Keep the lid on so that the water remains at slightly below boiling point. Place eggs in a large pot. Cover with 2 inches of cold water. Heat  over medium high heat until water begins to boil. Once boiling,  turn off the heat, cover the pot and let … sit for 12 minutes.
1 If you are using large eggs, cook the eggs for 4 minutes, for a runny yolk and 6 minutes for a medium-boiled egg, where the yolk is only slightly runny. 2  For medium sized eggs, reduce these cooking times by one minute. 
Bring your salty water to boil and gently drop your eggs into the water: 2 minutes for a runny yolk or 3 minutes for a stiffer one.  If eggs were refri … gerated, it will crack as soon as it touches the boiling water. Place eggs in a large pot. Cover with 2 inches of cold water. Heat  over medium high heat until water begins to boil. Once boiling,  turn off the heat, cover the pot and let … sit for 12 minutes.
Put eggs in a pan of cold water (the water should at least cover the eggs), bring to boil, and boil for 3-5 minutes (depending on the size of the eggs). 4 minutes on a medium … boil is about right for a medium sized soft boiled egg. Place eggs in a large pot. Cover with 2 inches of cold water. Heat  over medium high heat until water begins to boil. Once boiling,  turn off the heat, cover the pot and let … sit for 12 minutes.
Skip this step if your eggs are very soft-boiled with runny yolks or if you're planning to dye your eggs for Easter. Place the eggs in a bowl of ice water. Fill a bowl with ice water. Transfer the eggs to the bowl and leave them there for at least 1 minute. Instructions. 1  Put the eggs in a pan of cold water: Place 6 cold eggs in a saucepan and fill with cold water, covering the eggs by an inch. 2  Bring the water to a rolling boil: Set the pan over high heat and bring the water to a boil, uncovered. 3  The water should come to a full, rolling boil.
For a soft-boiled egg, lower the egg into gently boiling water with a slotted spoon. Allow three and a half minutes for a medium-sized egg and four minutes for a large egg. The yolk will be runny and the white just set. Cook for a further minute if you like your soft boiled eggs a little firmer. For a hard-boiled egg, start the egg in cold water and bring up to the boil. Once the water is gently boiling, set the timer for between 7-10 minutes depending on how well cooked you like your eggs. The longer you boil the egg, the firmer it will be