Skeletal-muscle Basics. Skeletal muscle is also called striated muscle, because when it is viewed under polarized light or stained with an indicator, you can see alternating stripes of light and dark. Skeletal muscle has a complex structure that is essential to how it contracts. All that any muscle can do is create contraction force. A muscle is a bundle of many cells called fibers. You can think of muscle fibers as long cylinders, and compared to other cells in your body, muscle fibers are quite big. They are from about 1 to 40 microns long and 10 to 100 microns in diameter
Lesson Summary. In summary, skeletal muscles are organs that are directly or indirectly attached to bone. Skeletal muscles serve a variety of functions including support and movement and homeostasis. Skeletal muscle contraction can result in muscle shortening and thus movement of the bone to which it is attached. Additionally, skeletal muscle contraction can maintain posture and position
Skeletal Muscles Bodily movement is carried out by the interaction of the muscular and skeletal systems. For this reason, they are often grouped together as the musculo-skeletal system. Muscle is attached to bone by tendons and other tissues, and exerts force by converting chemical energy into tension and contraction. Skeletal muscles can do a short, single contraction (twitch) or a long, sustained contraction (tetanus), and might ache after strenuous exercise. The stomach is an organ of the alimentary canal, a muscular tube that forms part of the digestive system. The wall of the stomach contains smooth muscle tissue.
Three types of muscle. You've got around 650 muscles in your body, and they make up roughly half of your bodyweight. These muscles can be divided into three different groups: skeletal, smooth and cardiac. All of these muscles can stretch and contract, but they perform very different functions. Skeletal muscle. The tissue most commonly thought of as muscle is skeletal muscle. Skeletal muscles cover your skeleton, giving your body its shape. They are attached to your skeleton by strong, springy tendons or are directly connected to rough patches of bone. 
A skeletal muscle is, in general, a muscle that is attached to the bones of the skeleton through a tendon. They are used to provide movement to the body parts, or to maintain position or posture. IMPROVED ANSWER:  Skeletal muscle is a type of striated muscle, which usually attaches to tendons. Skeletal muscles are used to create movement, by applying force to bones and joints via contraction.
There are three types of muscle tissue: skeletal, smooth, and cardiac. Skeletal muscle tissue is a voluntary type of muscle tissue that is used in the contraction of skeletal … parts. It is striated (alternating with light and dark bands, called striations) and is attached to bones. A single skeletal muscle fiber is very long and has many nuclei, located at the periphery of the cell. IMPROVED ANSWER:  Skeletal muscle is a type of striated muscle, which usually attaches to tendons. Skeletal muscles are used to create movement, by applying force to bones and joints via contraction.
Three types of muscles. The muscular system can be broken down into three types of muscles: skeletal, smooth and cardiac, according to the NIH. Skeletal muscles are the only voluntary muscle tissue in the human body and control every action that a person consciously performs. Most skeletal muscles are attached to two bones across a joint, so the muscle serves to move parts of those bones closer to each other, according to The Merck Manual. Visceral, or smooth, muscle is found inside organs such as the stomach and intestines, as well as in blood vessels. It is called a smooth muscle because, unlike skeletal muscle, it does not have the banded appearance of skeletal or cardiac muscle.
Skeletal muscle is a form of striated muscle tissue which is under the voluntary control of the somatic nervous system. It is one of three major muscle types, the others being cardiac muscle and smooth muscle. Most skeletal muscles are attached to bones by bundles of collagen fibers known as tendons. Skeletal muscle is made up of individual muscle cells or myocytes, known as muscle fibers. They are formed from the fusion of developmental myoblasts (a type of embryonic progenitor cell that gives rise to a muscle cell) in a process known as myogenesis. Muscle fibres are cylindrical, and multinucleated.