Little Rock Nine. Led by civil rights pioneer Daisy Bates, these nine brave Arkansas teenagers broke through racial barriers to become the first black students to attend Little Rock High School. On September 4, 1957, the first day of classes at Central High, Governor Orval Faubus of Arkansas called in the state National Guard to bar the black students’ entry into the school.
Little Rock Central High School still functions as part of the Little Rock School District, and is now a National Historic Site that houses a Civil Rights Museum, administered in partnership with the National Park Service, to commemorate the events of 1957. By the end of September 1957, the nine were admitted to Little Rock Central High under the protection of the 101st Airborne Division (and later the Arkansas National Guard), but they were still subjected to a year of physical and verbal abuse (being spat on and called names) by many of the white students.
The Civil Rights Movement. September 23, 1957 was no ordinary school day for Elizabeth Eckford and eight other African American teenagers in Little Rock, Arkansas. Little Rock Central High School, like many schools across the country, was segregated. But the Supreme Court had ruled that segregation, or the legal separation of blacks and whites in public facilities, was illegal. And these nine students, who would be known as The Little Rock Nine, would be the first African Americans to attend Little Rock's Central High.
In a key event of the American Civil Rights Movement, nine black students enrolled at formerly all-white Central High School in Little Rock, Arkansas, in September 1957, testing a landmark 1954 U.S. Supreme Court ruling that declared segregation in public schools unconstitutional. On September 4, 1957, the first day of classes at Central High, Governor Orval Faubus of Arkansas called in the state National Guard to bar the black students’ entry into the school.
Bates, and Christopher Mercer Jr. were the 2012 Arkansas Civil Rights Heritage honorees along with the members of the Little Rock Nine. They were honored for their dedication to obtaining equal rights in education in Arkansas, particularly, during the integration of Central High School. During the Central High crisis, Bates was a mentor to the Little Rock Nine. Bates became known as the principal spokesperson and leader for the movement to desegregate Central and became a state and nationally recognized advocate for civil rights. She and her husband, L.C.
The desegregation of Central High School in Little Rock, Arkansas, gained national attention on September 3, 1957, when Governor Orval Faubus mobilized the Arkansas National Guard in an effort to prevent nine African American students from integrating the high school. 1 The Civil Rights movement: First day of integration at Central High School, Little Rock, Arkansas; photo and first-hand account from Elizabeth Eckford's perspective (Instructional materials). 2  Teachers' Domain Civil Rights Special Collection (WGBH Educational Foundation). 3  Brown: a landmark cas
Little Rock Nine. Led by civil rights pioneer Daisy Bates, these nine brave Arkansas teenagers broke through racial barriers to become the first black students to attend Little Rock High School. New to Old.
The Little Rock Nine arrived for the first day of school at Central High on September 4, 1957. Eight arrived together, driven by Bates. Eckford’s family, however, did not have a telephone, and Bates could not reach her to let her know of the carpool plans. Therefore, Eckford arrived alone. On September 4, 1957, the first day of classes at Central High, Governor Orval Faubus of Arkansas called in the state National Guard to bar the black students’ entry into the school.
On May 17, 1954, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled in Brown vs. Topeka Board of Education that segregated schools are inherently unequal.. In September 1957, as a result of that ruling, nine African-American students enrolled at Central High School in Little Rock, Arkansas. When Governor Faubus ordered the Arkansas National Guard to surround Central High School to keep the nine students from entering the school, President Eisenhower ordered the 101st Airborne Division into Little Rock to insure the safety of the Little Rock Nine and that the rulings of the Supreme Court were upheld.
Witness to one of the defining moments in the U.S. civil rights movement, Little Rock, Ark., made history in 1957 when nine African American students tested federal anti-segregation laws in public schools for the first time. President Dwight D. Eisenhower called in federal troops to restore peace and escort African American children into the classrooms. It was the first use of federal troops in Arkansas to support African American rights since the Civil War Reconstruction period.