The Gila monster is one of only two venomous lizard species in the world. The venom is generally used to thwart an attacker (rather than to subdue prey, as in snakes). When Gila monsters bite, venom flows from glands in the lower jaw to the bottom teeth, which have grooves to carry the liquid to the victim's body. Ouch! Gila monsters are a type of beaded lizard, so called because of the bead-like scales covering their head and back. Gila monsters come in two distinct color patterns. Banded Gila monsters (the kind we have at the Saint Louis Zoo) have alternating pink and black bands across their body.
Comments. Gila monsters are one of only two venomous lizards known to occur in the world. The other, the beaded lizard (Heloderma horridum), is found in southern Sonora and further south in thornscrub and tropical deciduous forest. Once the lizard bites, it generally holds on and chews more of the venom into its victim. Though the bite is rarely life-threatening to humans, it may cause pain, edema, bleeding, nausea and vomiting. A Gila monster s venom is believed to be a defensive weapon.
The Gila Monster is one species of Lizard that people are afraid of. It has a terrible reputation and the fact that it is one of two that can offer venom it isn’t one that you want to be found too close to. People continue to keep them as pets illegally though because they like the idea of owning something so original. Gila Monster Habitat and Distribution. The warmer and the dryer the location happens to be the more the Gila Monster is able to thrive there. They do very well in harsh environments that other living things won’t do well in at all.
Gila Monster (Heloderma suspectum) Range: The majority of Gila monsters are found in Arizona and Mexico, with some in the extreme southeastern corner of California, the southern tip of Nevada and the southwestern corner of Utah and New Mexico. Of the two subspecies, the banded Gila monster occupies the northern extent of the range, with the reticulated will be found in the southern range. Habitat: Gila monsters are desert dwellers, living near washes and arroyos and in semiarid rocky regions of desert scrub or grasslands.
Yes! Gila Monsters are one of only two venomous lizards in the world. The other is the Beaded Lizard (Heloderma horridum) which is found in Mexico. Gila Monsters do not bite unless handled or harassed. When they do bite, they will not let go and they begin chewing to release venom into their victim’s wound.
Taxonomy. The Gila monster is one of only two species of venomous lizards (its cousin, the Mexican beaded lizard, is the other). It can bite quickly and hold on tenaciously. Rather than injecting venom through hollow fangs like venomous snakes do, Gilas have enlarged, grooved teeth in their lower jaw
It is a subspecies of the Gila Monster (Heloderma suspectum), and is one of two venomous types of lizard in the world. They are pink, orange and red. Four or five black bands with spots in them run around the body. The tail is also banded. Their heads are spotted with black around their eyes and mouth. 
Genus/species: Heloderma suspectum. The range of the Gila monster is primarily in Arizona and Mexico, the extreme southeastern corner of California, the southern tip of Nevada, and the southwestern corners of Utah and New Mexico. It is named for the Gila River in whose drainage it is a common resident. The Gila monster is one of only two species of venomous lizards (its cousin, the Mexican beaded lizard, is the other). It can bite quickly and hold on tenaciously. Rather than injecting venom through hollow fangs like venomous snakes do, Gilas have enlarged, grooved teeth in their lower jaw
The Gila Monster is the only venomous lizard in America. Pronounced as Hee Lah, the Gila Monster is also the largest lizard in the country and is unique only to the Southwestern states and northern parts of Mexico. It is related to the Mexican Beaded Lizard which inhabits areas of northern Mexico. 