The enteric NS is also linked to the CNS by afferent visceral fibres and by symp & parasymp branches of the ANS that enter the intestinal wall and synapse with neurons in the intrinsic plexuses. Thus digestive activity is also subject to EXTRINSIC controls exerted by autonomic fibres via long reflex arcs. The alimentary canal is staffed by enteric neurons. There are 2 major nerve plexuses found in the walls of the alimentary canal: the submucosal and myenteric. Submucosal = occupies submucosa and regulates activity of glands and smooth muscle in the mucosa (twitching etc).
The enteric nervous system can and does function autonomously, but normal digestive function requires communication links between this intrinsic system and the central nervous system. Conversely, parasympathetic stimuli typically stimulate these digestive activities. Some of the prominent communiques enabled by nervous interconnections within the digestive tract have been named as reflexes and serve to illustrate a robust system of control.
The ulnar-innervated intrinsic muscles can be checked by resisting abduction of the index (first dorsal interosseous muscle) and small fingers (abductor digiti quinti muscle). Adhesions and contractures of the intrinsic and extrinsic extensor muscles can limit flexion of the digits. The intrinsic muscles are volar to the axis of rotation of the MCP joint and dorsal to the axis of the PIP joint. MCP joint hyperextension tightens the intrinsics. Results of this test are compared with those in the contralateral, normal hand.
Extrinsic compression(A) involves the sacral dermatomes whereas an intrinsic lesion (B) may result in sacral sparing. Syringomyelia This rare condition, in which a CSF-ﬁlled cavity (syrinx) develops centrally in the spinalcord (Fig. 15.4), also produces characteristic motor and sensory deﬁcits (Fig. 15.5). Speciﬁc cord syndromes Extrinsic vs. intrinsic lesions Extrinsic compression of the spinal cord, e.g. by tumour or prolapsed intervertebral disc, typicallyproduces a pattern of sensory loss in which thesacral dermatomes are involved (saddle anaesthe-sia).
The nervous system exerts a profound influence on all digestive processes, namely motility, ion transport associated with secretion and absorption, and gastrointestinal blood flow. Conversely, parasympathetic stimuli typically stimulate these digestive activities. Some of the prominent communiques enabled by nervous interconnections within the digestive tract have been named as reflexes and serve to illustrate a robust system of control.
The enteric nervous system is situated within the walls of the GI tract, figure. It consists of two neural plexuses that extend from the esophagus to the anus. The myenteric plexus (Auerbach's plexus) lies between the longitudinal and smooth muscle layers. Both afferent and efferent nerve fibers are present. Efferent fibers supply smooth muscle, epithelial, and endocrine cells. Sensory receptors in the gut wall include mechanoreceptors, chemoreceptors, and pain receptors.
1 Sensory receptors in muscle respond to stretch and tension. 2  Collectively, enteric sensory neurons compile a comprehensive battery of information on gut contents and the state of the gastrointestinal wall. Conversely, parasympathetic stimuli typically stimulate these digestive activities. Some of the prominent communiques enabled by nervous interconnections within the digestive tract have been named as reflexes and serve to illustrate a robust system of control.
Anatomy of the muscles of the hand. Normal positioning and movement of the digits depends on the functional integrity of extrinsic and intrinsic muscles. The extrinsic muscles originate in the forearm, and the intrinsic muscles originate distal to the wrist. The intrinsic muscles are volar to the axis of rotation of the MCP joint and dorsal to the axis of the PIP joint. MCP joint hyperextension tightens the intrinsics. Results of this test are compared with those in the contralateral, normal hand.
Intrinsic Innervation. Enteric nervous system: can direct all functions of the GIT even in the absence of extrinsic innervations. Controls the contractile, secretory and endocrine functions of the GIT. Receive sensory information directly from mechanoreceptors and chemoreceeptors in the mucosa and send motor information directly to smooth muscle, secretory and endocrine cells. Information is also relayed between ganglia by interneurons
Congenital and acquired derangements in the structure or function of the enteric nervous system are well recognized as causes of digestive tract disease. Examples include small intestinal motility disorders, gastric outlet obstructions and megacolon. Conversely, parasympathetic stimuli typically stimulate these digestive activities. Some of the prominent communiques enabled by nervous interconnections within the digestive tract have been named as reflexes and serve to illustrate a robust system of control.