1 Respiration-The process by which complex organic molecules are broken down to release energy. 2  Aerobic respiration-Requires oxygen to fully oxidise the organic molecule. 3  This releases lots of energy. 4  Anaerobic respiration-The breakdown of the molecule without oxygen. 
There are two systems within Anaerobic metabolism, which are the ATP-PC system and the lactic acid system. ATP-PC System. ATP as already discussed is a high energy molecule which is broken down to form ADP and release energy. PC or Phosphocreatine is another high energy molecule, found in the Sarcoplasm of muscle fibres. Due to lactic acid production, this energy system can only be predominant for up to 2 minutes. Following anaerobic exercise, despite the metabolic process used not requiring oxygen, your body will be in Oxygen Debt and so your respiration rate will be very high.
This process is called fermentation and is showed by the following equation: Enzymes C6H12O6 2C2H5OH + 2CO2 + 118 kJ glucose alcohol + Carbon + energy Dioxide The waste products of anaerobic respiration by yeast have been put to use for many hundreds, if not thousands, of years. Energy In Food Introduction: Anaerobic Respiration The word anaerobic means 'in the absence of oxygen'. What is anaerobic Respiration? Anaerobic Respiration is the ability to obtain energy from food without the use of oxygen. Some organisms can survive for a long time without the supply of energy, i.e. Bacteria
Submitted by Anonymous on. Sometimes animal and plant cells cannot get enough oxygen to carry out aerobic respiration. But they still need to obtain energy to stay alive. So they use an emergency system of reactions, that is anaerobic respiration. When you sprint for a bus, your muscles use so much oxygen that you cannot supply it in time. This way of getting energy is not as efficient as aerobic respiration and it also leaves a poisonous chemical, lactic acid. This stops your muscles working and they get sore. When you stop the lactic acid is slowly destroyed but that needs oxygen.The amount of oxygen you need for this is called the ' oxygen debt '.
Unit 2 - Aerobic Respiration. Aerobic respiration occurs in the presence of oxygen and gives a greater yield of energy than anaerobic respiration. Glucose reacts with oxygen to release energy and give carbon dioxide and water
Respiration is the release of energy from glucose in the muscles. When the body is at rest this is aerobic aerobic: With oxygen. respiration. As you exercise you breathe harder and deeper and the heart beats faster to get oxygen to the muscles. Glucose + oxygen → energy + water + carbon dioxide. When exercising very hard, the heart cannot get enough oxygen to the muscles. Respiration then becomes anaerobic anaerobic: Without oxygen. . Glucose → energy + lactic acid. See the 'Exercise and Training' revision bite for information about aerobic and anaerobic fitness and training. Page: 1  1.
Respiration is a series of reactions in which energy is released from glucose glucose: A simple sugar made by the body from food, which is used by cells to make energy in respiration. Aerobic respiration is the form of respiration which uses oxygen. It can be summarised by this equation: glucose + oxygen → carbon dioxide + water (+ energy). Energy is shown in brackets because it is not a substance. Notice that: 1  Glucose and oxygen are used up. 2  Carbon dioxide and water are produced as waste products. Aerobic respiration happens all the time in the cells of animals and plants. Most of the reactions involved happen inside mitochondria, tiny objects inside the cytoplasm of the cell. The reactions are controlled by enzymes [enzyme: A protein which speeds up chemical reactions. ] . Page: 1  1. 2  2. 3  3. 4  4. 5  Next.
The anaerobic energy system provides energy in the absense of Oxygen. This is used in the first few minutes of all exercise, before there is suffiecient oxygen available at the muscles for aerobic metabolism. Due to lactic acid production, this energy system can only be predominant for up to 2 minutes. Following anaerobic exercise, despite the metabolic process used not requiring oxygen, your body will be in Oxygen Debt and so your respiration rate will be very high.