I often get calls regarding moss growing in lawns. Moss is a small green plant with finely branched stems and tiny leaves. It produces spores that are spread by the wind. Moss forms a thick, green matt on the soil surface, however is not the culprit for killing grass in those areas. 
The spore capsule, often with a supporting stalk (called a seta), is the sporophyte and this grows from the gametophyte stage. You will commonly see the statement that a moss gametophyte consists of leaves on stems. That statement is so close to the whole truth that it's no surprise it's so commonly used. When a moss spore germinates it first develops a protonema. This is a filamentous to sheet-like growth form, often with a strong resemblance to an algal colony or a fern prothallus. In due course one or more stems grow from the protonema and leaves develop on the stems, giving rise to one or more leafy-stemmed plants. In almost all moss species the capsule has a well-defined mouth at the end opposite the stalk or the point attaching the capsule to a stem. When there is a mouth, the spores are released through that mouth. There is a very small number of mouth-less mosses-such as species of the genus Andreaea.
Moss close up. Because moss was just beginning to get used to being out of the water, it still needed a lot of water nearby, and it could only grow in very wet places, like right next to streams, or where it rained a lot. Moss gets most of its food from the water washing over it, instead of through its roots. Like other plants, moss plants make their own food by photosynthesis. All of the cells in a moss plant can photosynthesize, thanks to their chloroplasts, so moss plants don't need a circulatory or vascular system.
English and Welsh: from the personal name Moss, a Middle English vernacular form of the Biblical name Moses.English and Scottish: topographic name for someone who lived by a peat bog, Middle English, Old English mos, or a habitational name from a place named with this word. 
Lichens may superficially look like mosses, and have a common names that includes the word moss (e.g.,  reindeer moss  or  iceland moss ), but are not related to mosses. Mosses, hornworts, and liverworts are collectively called  bryophytes . The uses for intact moss are principally in the florist trade and for home decoration. Decaying moss in the genus Sphagnum is also the major component of peat, which is mined for use as a fuel, as a horticultural soil additive, and in smoking malt in the production of Scotch whisky.
Adorable animal families that will make you aww. Moss is a very simple type of plant that lacks conventional roots, stems, and leaves. The name refers to any species of the class Bryopsida and is part of the division Bryophyta. Bryophyta means the first green land plants to develop during the evolutionary process. Lacking traditional vascular structures of true leaves, stems, and roots, moss growth is limited to moist locations. It is usually very hardy and grows almost everywhere, except under the sea. The plant usually grows vertically.
Spanish moss (Tillandsia usneoides) is a flowering plant that grows upon larger trees, commonly the Southern Live Oak (Quercus virginiana) or Bald Cypress (Taxodium distichum) in the southeastern United States from Texas and Florida north to southern Arkansas and Virginia. Spanish moss has been used for various purposes, including building insulation, mulch, packing material, mattress stuffing, and fiber. In the early 1900s it was used commercially in the padding of car seats.
Mosses are small flowerless plants that usually grow in dense green clumps or mats, in damp or shady locations. The individual plants are usually composed of simple, one-cell thick leaves, covering a thin stem that supports them but does not conduct water and nutrients (nonvascular). The uses for intact moss are principally in the florist trade and for home decoration. Decaying moss in the genus Sphagnum is also the major component of peat, which is mined for use as a fuel, as a horticultural soil additive, and in smoking malt in the production of Scotch whisky.