The incubation period for chicken eggs is 20 to 21 days, and increases up to 30 days for other poultry. After sitting for some days, a broody hen can be given some newly hatched chicks and, if they are accepted, the original eggs can be removed and replaced with more chicks. Any eggs stored for incubation should be kept at a temperature between 12 and 14 °C, at a high humidity of between 75 to 85 percent, and stored for no longer than seven days. Extra fertile eggs introduced under the hen from elsewhere should be introduced at dusk.
When the egg is about to hatch, the need for getting fresh oxygen increases. The incubation period for a chicken egg should not be more than 22 days – usually the chicken egg hatching process ends in 21 days. You should turn the eggs three times a day – once in the morning, then afternoon and then at night before going to bed. If you won’t do that, the embryo tends to get stuck inside the shell. The incubation period may be up to 21 days – so what you need to do is maintain the humidity percentage about 55 to 55(83 o – 87 o F (28 – 31 C). This should be done for first eighteen days, and for the last 3 days it can be near to 65 percent (89 o – 90 o F (31 – 32 C).
Incubation time. It is obvious that the incubation also depends on the size of the egg and species. Incubation time vary between 32 till 68 days. The larger the egg, the longer a penguin has to sit on it. The males of the emperor penguins have to sit more than two months before the egg hatch and the females return.
Incubation refers to the process by which certain oviparous (egg-laying) animals hatch their eggs and to the development of the embryo within the egg. Some species begin incubation with the first egg, causing the young to hatch at different times; others begin after laying the second egg, so that the third chick will be smaller and more vulnerable to food shortages. Some start to incubate after the last egg of the clutch, causing the young to hatch simultaneously.
In perhaps the best known example, the platypus, the eggs develop in utero for about 28 days, with only about 10 days of external incubation (in contrast to a chicken egg, which spends about one day in tract and 21 days externally). After laying her eggs, the female curls around them. Some species begin incubation with the first egg, causing the young to hatch at different times; others begin after laying the second egg, so that the third chick will be smaller and more vulnerable to food shortages. Some start to incubate after the last egg of the clutch, causing the young to hatch simultaneously.
Hatching chicken eggs is an extremely rewarding experience, which requires good planning, dedication, flexibility and observation skills. Chicken eggs have an incubation period of about 21 days and can be hatched using either a specialized incubator under carefully monitored conditions, or using a broody hen. Use these tips for hatching chicken eggs using both methods. 
Related tutorials: How-To #2: The First 60 Days. General Hints. First things first-eggs should hatch in 21 days, though some may hatch a day or 2 early and some a day or 2 late, after the incubation period began. Turning. Turning is essential during the first 14 days of incubation and should be continued until 3 days prior to the eggs expected hatch day. If hand turning, always turn the eggs an uneven number of times a day, so the eggs do not spent two nights in a row in the same position.
Incubation time is roughly correlated with the weight of the egg. The eggs of small songbirds generally hatch in about 11 days; those of the Royal Albatross in about 80 days. More information on incubation, based on careful, long-term observations of nests, is needed for most species of North American birds.
It may slow up development of the chick, though, depending upon how much the egg is cooled. Generally, if the eggs are removed from the incubator two or three times for a period of no more than 15 minutes each, such cooling will make little difference in the total incubation time required for hatching. Chicks will start to pip the shell around the 19th day. All chicks which are going to hatch should be out of their shells by the 21st day. If the eggs were chilled or you ran into operational difficulties during the incubation period, the hatch may be delayed.