Concentric Contractions. Concentric muscle contractions are the most common form of contraction. These occur when the muscle shortens in length in order to make the bone move. These contractions occur when the body is working against gravity. For example-a bicep curl exercise.
eccentric contraction contraction in the presence of a resistive force that results in elongation of a muscle, used to perform negative work or to decelerate a body part. isotonic contraction muscle contraction without appreciable change in the force of contraction; the distance between the origin and insertion becomes lessened. lengthening contraction eccentric contraction. postural contraction the state of muscular tension and contraction that just suffices to maintain the posture of the body. segmental c's muscular contractions of the small intestine that serve to mix and transport chyme. shortening contraction concentric contraction
There are two types of isotonic contractions: (1) concentric and (2) eccentric. In a concentric contraction, the muscle tension rises to meet the resistance, then remains the same as the muscle shortens. In eccentric, the muscle lengthens due to the resistance being greater than the force the muscle is producing. In an isotonic contraction, tension remains unchanged and the muscle's length changes. Isotonic contractions differ from isokinetic contractions in that in isokinetic contractions the muscle speed remains constant.
2 pertaining to behavior that may appear to be odd or unconventional but does not necessarily reflect a disorder. adjective Referring to eccentricity. noun A person whose behaviour or mannerisms are generally regarded as deviating from an accepted norm. Nietzsche practically tells us here that it is not he who intentionally wears eccentric clothes or does eccentric things who is truly the individualist. Thus Spake Zarathustra: A Book For All And None by Nietzsche, Friedrich View in context.
It's also important to note there are two types of isotonic contractions. Concentric contraction occurs when the muscle shortens, while eccentric contraction occurs when the muscle lengthens. Let me explain. Let's re-examine our weight lifter. The muscle shortens when the arm flexes at the elbow in the act of curling-therefore, this is a concentric contraction. Isotonic Contraction. Isotonic literally means 'same tension,' where 'iso'- means 'the same' and 'tonic' refers to 'tension or force' - in this case, in the muscle. In an isotonic contraction, tension develops to a point and then remains constant while the muscle changes its length.
There are two types of Isotonic contraction: Concentric. Concentric contractions are those which cause the muscle to shorten as it contracts. An example is bending the elbow from straight to fully flexed, causing a concentric contraction of the Biceps Brachii muscle. Concentric contractions are the most common type of muscle contraction and occur frequently in daily and sporting activities. Types of Muscle Contraction. Muscle Contractions can be divided into: 1  Isotonic (meaning same tension). 2  Isometric (meaning same distance or not moving). 3  Isokinetic (meaning same speed).
Eccentric contractions are the opposite of concentric and occur when the muscle lengthens as it contracts. This is less common and usually involves the control or deceleration of a movement being initiated by the eccentric muscles agonist. Types of Muscle Contraction. Muscle Contractions can be divided into: 1  Isotonic (meaning same tension). 2  Isometric (meaning same distance or not moving). 3  Isokinetic (meaning same speed).
eccentric contraction, a type of muscle contraction that occurs as the muscle fibers lengthen, such as when a weight is lowered through a range of motion. The contractile force generated by the muscle is weaker than an opposing force, which causes the muscle to stretch. isotonic contraction muscle contraction without appreciable change in the force of contraction; the distance between the origin and insertion becomes lessened. lengthening contraction eccentric contraction. postural contraction the state of muscular tension and contraction that just suffices to maintain the posture of the body. segmental c's muscular contractions of the small intestine that serve to mix and transport chyme. shortening contraction concentric contraction