Lena or Leana or Lina is a female given name. The name has evolved in different languages as a variation of several earlier names. In some derivations, Lena comes from the endings of Alina and Helena. Lena is also a diminutive or short form for names that end with-line, such as Caroline, Adeline, and Madeline. Leana is seen in Hindi, Russian and Swedish
Lenka is a name of Czech/Solvak origin and was used as a nickname for Magdalena, which comes from the name Magdalene (as in Mary Magdalene from the Bible) meaning tower in Hebrew. 1 out of 1 found this comment helpful. 
The meaning of Lenka has more than one different etymologies. It has same or different meanings in other countries and languages. The different meanings of the name Lenka are: 1  African meaning: Taker. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Lenka and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The history and meaning of the name Lenka is fascinating, learn more about it.
Comments and insights on the name Lenka: | Edit. Share what you know! Personal experiences with the name Lenka: | Edit. Share what you know! Nicknames for Lenka: | Edit. Share what you know! Meanings and history of the name Lenka : | Edit. Common Czech/Slovak diminutive of Lena, from Magdalena. 
The different meanings of the name Lenka are: The meaning of the name “Lenka” is different in several languages, countries and cultures and has more than one possibly same or different meanings available. .adslot_1 { width: 336px; height: 280px; } @media (max-width:350px) { .adslot_1 { width: 300px; height: 250px; } }. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Lenka and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The history and meaning of the name Lenka is fascinating, learn more about it.
Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Lenka and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Lenka and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The history and meaning of the name Lenka is fascinating, learn more about it.
[ 2 syll. len-ka, le-nka ] The baby girl name Lenka is also used as a boy name. It is pronounced L EH-NGKaa †. Lenka is of Old Greek, Hebrew, and Latin origin. It is used mainly in Czech, Polish, and Russian. Lenka is not commonly used as a baby girl name. It is not in the top 1000 names. Within the family of girl names directly related to Lenka, Lena was the most popular in 2012.
Meaning of Lenka. Slovakian name. In Slovakian, the name Lenka means-illumination.The name Lenka originated as an Slovakian name. The name Lenka is most often used as a girl name or female name. Slovakian Name Meaning-illumination
Lenka is also a form of Lena. Lenka is also a form (Russian) of the English, French, and German Lilian. Lenka is also a diminutive (Czech and Polish) of Magdalena. Lenka is not commonly used as a baby girl name. It is not in the top 1000 names. Within the family of girl names directly related to Lenka, Lena was the most popular in 2012.