Product Description. This self-distracting posterior interbody fusion device is designed to facilitate efficient, versatile and reproducible spinal fusion procedures. The name Ardis, Greek for “point of an arrow,” well suits this system whose implant has a “ double-bulleted” nose providing for an easier insertion. 
AccuLIF® Expandable Lumbar Interbody Fusion Technology. The AccuLIF platform of expandable interbody devices, including AccuLIF TL and AccuLIF PL, further establishes our presence in the minimally invasive surgery market. 1  Surgeon controlled hydraulic expansion mechanism that expands or contracts the device in-situ and is intended for use with supplemental spinal fixation.
Interbody Fusion with Cage. The videos listed will acquaint you with the various types of IBF (interbody fusion) approaches, including anterior, posterior, transforminal and axial. Accomplished by surgical incision in the back, PLIF requires the surgeon to move the back muscles out of the way in order to gain access to the spine. TRANSFORMINAL LUMBAR INTERBODY FUSION (TLIF). With this technique, the surgeon goes through the back to access the disc space, but inserts the bone graft from the side.
(July 2013). An interbody fusion cage (colloquially known as a  spine cage ) is a prosthesis used in spinal fusion procedures to maintain foraminal height and decompression.
cervical interbody fusion cage / anterior / corpectomy Cambria ™. The Cambria™ Anterior Cervical Interbody System provides Integra Spine surgeons with an anatomic solution for ACDF procedures.The Cambria™ is manufactured from PEEK-OPTIMA and has a large window... Cervical interbody fusion cage / anterior / pre-filled. Thoraco-lumbar interbody fusion cage / lumbar / posterior / anterior. Product Description The Puros-A and Puros-P implants... Lumbar interbody fusion cage / posterior / midline. The TM Ardis implant is a single device manufactured wholly from Trabecular Metal™ (porous tantalum)...
In September of 1996, the FDA approved anterior interbody cages for use in the disc space, providing a new technique that allows the spine to be fused with less morbidity (e.g. less post-operative discomfort) than in the past. Anterior interbody cages are titanium cylinders that are placed in the disc space. Article continues below. While most cages are placed through an ALIF, they can also be placed in the back of the spine (posterior lumbar interbody fusion or PLIF) through a midline incision in the back (see Figure 2). In This Article: 1  Spine Fusion Instrumentation. 2  Pedicle Screws for Spine Fusion
cervical interbody fusion cage / anterior CeSPACE®XP. Anterior Cervical Interbody Fusion System made of biocompatible PEEK-OPTIMA® with a PlasmaporeXP® coating Description The CeSPACE®XP Interbody System brings an innovative surface enhancing technology, PlasmaporeXP®, to ACDF procedures. Thoraco-lumbar interbody fusion cage / lumbar / posterior / anterior. Product Description The Puros-A and Puros-P implants... Lumbar interbody fusion cage / posterior / midline. The TM Ardis implant is a single device manufactured wholly from Trabecular Metal™ (porous tantalum)...
Posterior Lumbar Interbody Fusion Surgery Description. First, the spine is approached through a three-inch to six-inch long incision in the midline of the back and the left and right lower back muscles (erector spinae) are stripped off the lamina on both sides and at multiple levels. When the surgical approach for this type of procedure is from the back it is called a posterior lumbar interbody fusion (PLIF). A PLIF fusion is often supplemented by a simultaneous posterolateral spine fusion surgery.
Sections. Posterior lumbar interbody fusion (PLIF) is a form of traditional open spinal fusion that may provide greater stability and faster healing than posterolateral fusion procedures. 