Benign prostate enlargement or hypertrophy/hyperplasia (also known as BPH) is a common condition in men as they age. Prostate tissue can enlarge in response to certain hormones. It can swell and block the flow of urine from the bladder, causing uncomfortable symptoms and potentially infection. 
BPH (also referred to as benign prostatic hypertrophy) is a condition in which the prostate gland becomes very enlarged and may cause problems associated with urination. BPH can raise PSA (prostate-specific antigen) levels two to three times higher than the normal level. 
Benign prostatic hypertrophy, or benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) occurs when the cells of the prostate gland begin to multiply. These additional cells swell your prostate gland, which squeezes the urethra and limits the flow of urine. Surrounding a portion of the bladder and urethra, the prostate produces most of the fluid in semen that allows sperm mobility during ejaculation. The muscular action of the prostate helps propel the fluid and semen through your penis during sexual climax.
Most men over 50 years of age will have an enlarged prostate at some time in their lives. This means there is an overgrowth of tissue in the prostate gland. Doctors call it benign prostatic hyperplasia or BPH. In benign prostate disease, the cells are normal prostate gland cells and are not cancerous. It is possible for men with BPH to go on to develop prostate cancer as well.
Enlarged Prostate Symptoms and Causes. In men, urine flows from the bladder through the urethra. BPH is a benign (noncancerous) enlargement of the prostate that blocks the flow of urine through the urethra. Symptoms of enlarged prostate can include: 1  A weak or slow urinary stream. 2  A feeling of incomplete bladder emptying. 3  Difficulty starting urination. 4  Frequent urination. 5  Urgency to urinate. 6  Getting up frequently at night
An enlarged prostate is the most common prostate problem in men. An enlarged prostate is common in men after the age of about 50. You may hear an enlarged prostate called benign prostatic enlargement (BPE) or benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH). Having an enlarged prostate does not mean you have cancer. 
Complications of enlarged prostate can include: 1  Sudden inability to urinate (urinary retention). 2  You might need to have a tube (catheter) inserted into your bladder to drain the urine. 3  Some men with an enlarged prostate need surgery to relieve urinary retention. 4  Urinary tract infections (UTIs). Complications. 
Prostate enlargement happens to almost all men as they get older. As the gland grows, it can press on the urethra and cause urination and bladder problems. An enlarged prostate is often called benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH). It is not cancer, and it does not raise your risk for prostate cancer. The actual cause of prostate enlargement is unknown. Factors linked to aging and changes in the cells of the testicles may have a role in the growth of the gland. Men who have had their testicles removed at a young age (for example, as a result of testicular cancer) do not develop BPH.
BPH stands for benign prostatic hyperplasia. Benign means not cancer, and hyperplasia means abnormal cell growth. The result is that the prostate becomes enlarged. BPH is not linked to cancer and does not increase your risk of getting prostate cancer—yet the symptoms for BPH and prostate cancer can be similar. 
The prostate is a small, muscular gland in the male reproductive system. Surrounding a portion of the bladder and urethra, the prostate produces most of the fluid in semen that allows sperm mobility during ejaculation. The muscular action of the prostate helps propel the fluid and semen through your penis during sexual climax.