There are two common types of muscle injuries, strains and sprains. A muscle strain is an injury that affects muscles or tendons, which are the thick bands that connect muscles to bone. A muscle sprain is an injury that affects ligaments, which are thick bands that connect bone to bone. Sprains can range in severity from a mild stretch to a complete tear
If you Google the relationship between doctors and muscle, you find a circular maze. There are a lot of roads that lead to pharmaceuticals. There are lots of roads that lead to diseases and other diagnosable conditions that explain away the muscle pain. I found Australian Sea Lion Poisoning as a reason for muscle pain. If you eat the liver, it can result in muscle pain and even death. As anyone knows who watches “House,” it’s easier to treat a condition than it is a set of symptoms that might not have a cause that you can easily look up and treat with a prescription or a referral.
Myositis is a term meaning inflammation in the muscles. There are several types of myositis, the most common being polymyositis and dermatomyositis. Polymyositis causes muscle weakness around the middle of the body and affects both sides of the body. Dermatomyositis causes muscle weakness as well as a skin rash. Exercise is a very important part of the treatment plan for myositis. It is important to keep muscles strong and flexible. Physical therapy can help prevent muscle atrophy and regain muscle strength and range of motion. Doctors may also recommend supplements that help support muscle strength.
Scleroderma is a group of diseases that affect connective tissue in the body. This tissue supports your skin and internal organs. Scleroderma involves tissue that gets hard or thick. It can also cause swelling or pain in the muscles and joints. Some types of scleroderma lead to hard, tight skin. 
Knowing some of these types and what they do will be helpful in an emergency. Doctors are categorized into different types according to their specialties. There are doctors for heart problems, ENT problems and for bone and muscle problems to name a few. Having a proper knowledge of these different specialty areas of doctors will be quite useful when you need to make a visit to the doctor for a particular illness. Certain designations for doctors are common. They also treat any gum diseases and oral defects. Dermatologist-This is a doctor that treats any ailment related to the skin and its appendages such as hair, nails etc. Emergency Doctors-These doctors handle trauma and emergency conditions in the Emergency room (ER) and are available at all times.
The answer depends on the type and cause of your muscle spasms. Depending on the cause, you might see a sports doctor, an orthopedist, a physiatrist, endocrinologist, or neurologist, or specialist in occupational medicine. A muscle spasm is a sudden, spontaneous, uncontrollable and abnormal tightening or contraction of a muscle. The term muscle cramp is also used to describe a muscle spasm anywh … ere in the body, and when a muscle spasm occurs in the lower leg it is often called a charlie horse..
Myofascial pain syndrome is characterized by muscle pain, tenderness, and spasm. Myofascial pain syndrome usually involves muscle in body areas that are asymmetric or focal, whereas fibromyalgia is typically a diffuse and symmetric muscle pain syndrome that involves both sides of the body. 1 Myofascial pain syndrome typically affects muscle in asymmetric areas of the body. 2  The precise cause of myofascial pain syndrome is not known. 3  Myofascial pain syndrome leads to localized pain in the muscle tissue. 4  Poor sleep, fatigue, and stiffness are common in myofascial pain syndrome.
Muscle aches are not always harmless, and in some instances, home treatment is not enough. Myalgia can also be a sign that something is seriously wrong in your body. You should see your doctor for: 1  pain that does not go away after a few days of home treatment. 2  severe muscle pain if you are unsure of the cause. 3  muscle pain that occurs along with a rash. 4  muscle pain that occurs after a tick bite. 5  myalgia accompanied by redness or swelling. Not all muscle aches are related to stress, tension, and physical activity. Some medical explanations for myalgia include: 1  fibromyalgia. 2  infections, such as the flu. 3  lupus. 4  use of certain medications or drugs, such as statins, ACE inhibitors, or cocaine.