Later, it was discovered that antipsychotic drugs also had powerful mood-stabilizing effects, so they were used to treat bipolar disorder, too. Credit Tim Robinson. Then, starting in 1993, came the so-called atypical antipsychotic drugs like Risperdal, Zyprexa, Seroquel, Geodon and Abilify. Antipsychotic drugs have been around for a long time, but until recently they were not widely used. Thorazine, the first real antipsychotic, was synthesized in the 1950s; not just sedating, it also targeted the core symptoms of schizophrenia, like hallucinations and delusions.
Antipsychotic drugs (which are also called 'neuroleptics') are prescribed to reduce the symptoms of psychosis, and to stop the symptoms re-occurring. Some antipsychotics also act as an antidepressant, a mood stabiliser or a sedative, and some can reduce the symptoms of mania. Antipsychotics boost or decrease the action of different chemicals that help the brain function. These chemicals are called neurotransmitters. All antipsychotics reduce the action of the neurotransmitter dopamine, which has a role in memory, attention and problem-solving, and is also involved in controlling movements.
First-generation antipsychotics, known as typical antipsychotics, were discovered in the 1950s. Most second-generation drugs, known as atypical antipsychotics, have been developed more recently, although the first atypical antipsychotic, clozapine, was discovered in the 1950s and introduced clinically in the 1970s. Atypical antipsychotic drugs have a similar blocking effect on D 2 receptors, however, most also act on serotonin receptors, especially 5-HT2A and 5-HT2C receptors.
Antipsychotic Drugs and Atypical Antipsychotic Drugs. also called neuroleptics. Neuroleptic or antipsychotic drugs disrupt frontal lobe function, causing a chemical lobotomy with apathy and indifference, making emotionally distressed people more submissive and less able to feel. 
2400. Newer antipsychotics: over the last 10 years, newer medications have appeared. They still block dopamine, but much less so than the older drugs. They also work on different chemical messengers in the brain (such as serotonin) and are often called ‘atypical’ or ‘second-generation’ antipsychotics. This is misleading-they have many of the same effects as the older drugs. The newer antipsychotics are also being used to help treat some people's depression. These older drugs are often called ‘typical’ or 'first-generation' antipsychotics. They all block the action of dopamine (see above), some more strongly than others. Side-effects include: 1  stiffness and shakiness, like Parkinson’s disease. 2  feeling sluggish and slow in your thinking. 3  uncomfortable restlessness (akathisia).
Antipsychotic Medications. Antipsychotic medications are the main form of treatment for psychotic disorders, not just for the treatment of schizophrenia. They are also called neuroleptic drugs or neuroleptics. Antipsychotic medications first came into recognition in the 1950s when it was fortuatously first used as an anxiolytic for the treatment of delirium. It was noticed that it had a very calming effect and that psychotic symptoms also improved. In scientific terms, they are called antogonists-they antagonise the action of dopamine. Drugs which attach to receptors and promote the action of the receptor are called agonists. Drugs can also be judged by the degree of potency of the action at the receptor.
In 1989, a new generation of antipsychotics -- called atypical or second generation antipsychotics -- was introduced. At the correct doses, fewer of the neurological side effects -- which often include such symptoms as muscular rigidity, painful spasms, restlessness, or tremors -- are seen. Because the risk of relapse of illness is higher when antipsychotic drugs are taken irregularly or discontinued, it is important that people with schizophrenia follow a treatment plan developed in collaboration with their doctors and with their families.
There are three ‘generations’ of antipsychotics. The first generation is often called ‘typical’ antipsychotics, and a second, or newer generation, is called ‘atypical’. The latest drugs, some still in development and called third generation, are also often referred to as ‘atypical’. There are no published lists of ‘most prescribed’ antipsychotics. Antipsychotics are a group of powerful psychoactive drugs thought to block specific receptors in the brain that affect the central nervous system. Antipsychotics are intended to treat psychosis, which some scientists think stems from problems with brain chemistry, although that has never been proven scientifically.
Antipsychotic medications are generally divided into two categories: first generation (typical) and second generation (atypical). The main difference between the two types of antipsychotics is that the first generation drugs block dopamine and the second generation drugs block dopamine and also affect serotonin levels. While antipsychotic medications can help some people with psychosis and mood disorders, at the same time these drugs can have serious side-effects. The aim of medication treatment is to reduce and control symptoms while keeping side-effects at a minimum.