A Stacy Wiegman, PharmD, Pharmacy, answered. You can expect the hepatitis A vaccine to provide protection against infection for at least 20 years. If you cannot remember when you were last vaccinated, your doctor can help determine if you are still protected. 
How long does hepatitis A vaccine protect you? Estimates for long-term protection for fully vaccinat-ed people (i.e., full two-dose series) suggest that pro-tection from hepatitis A virus infection could last for at least 25 years in adults and at least 14–20 years in children. In some people, symptoms of hepatitis A recur in 6–9 months; this condition is called relaps-ing hepatitis A. How long do symptoms last? Symptoms usually last less than 2 months; however, a few people are ill for as long as 6 months. How serious is hepatitis A? Hepatitis A can be quite serious.
A. I took the Hep A vaccine and then six months later took a booster and it supposedly lasts for life. But you have to get the booster. I read that Hep B vaccine is similar. Here's some more info that I pulled out of an article: Both the vaccines for hepatitis A and the vaccines for hepatitis B are highly effective. In studies of the four vaccines used for hepatitis A, nearly 100% of all adults who receive one develop protective levels of antibodies within one month of receiving a single dose
1 Understand that hepatitis B vaccination-induced protective antibodies can last for up to 15 years, but appear to fall off over time. 2  Patients who were vaccinated 10 to 15 years ago, especially those who were vaccinated as children, may not be adequately protected. 
Hepatitis A vaccination is recommended for all children at age 1 year, for persons who are at increased risk for infection, for persons who are at increased risk for complications from Hepatitis A, and for any person wishing to obtain immunity. Persons who have recently been exposed to HAV and who have not been vaccinated previously should be administered a single dose of single-antigen Hepatitis A vaccine or IG (0.02 mL/kg) as soon as possible, within 2 weeks after exposure.
Hepatitis B virus causes the infection of liver and spreads out in the entire body later through the saliva, blood, semen or vaginal fluids. Some of the people infected with this virus become chronic carriers. Out of the chronic carriers 15% to 20% people die of either cirrhosis or liver cancer. The results show that people between the ages of 18-50 after the second dose develop antibodies after 2 weeks and most after 1 month. And almost all the people develop the antibodies in one month of the final dosage to protect against the infection for as long as the hepatitis vaccine last.
Vaccination with the full, two-dose series of Hepatitis A vaccine is the best way to prevent HAV infection. Hepatitis A vaccine has been licensed in the United States for use in persons 12 months of age and older. Persons who have recently been exposed to HAV and who have not been vaccinated previously should be administered a single dose of single-antigen Hepatitis A vaccine or IG (0.02 mL/kg) as soon as possible, within 2 weeks after exposure.
1 For healthy persons aged 12 months–40 years, single-antigen Hepatitis A vaccine at the age-appropriate dose is preferred to IG because of the vaccine’s advantages, including long-term protection and ease of administration, as well as the equivalent efficacy of vaccine to IG. Persons who have recently been exposed to HAV and who have not been vaccinated previously should be administered a single dose of single-antigen Hepatitis A vaccine or IG (0.02 mL/kg) as soon as possible, within 2 weeks after exposure.
A vaccination for both hepatitis A and B can be given to those ages 18 and older; however, this vaccination is administered in three doses over six months. A hepatitis A vaccination consists of inactive virus; people 1 year old or older can receive the vaccine. It is highly effective. The first dose protects your body (for the short-term) in an estimated two to four weeks. Once you receive the second dose (about six to 12 months after the first), the vaccine should work for at least 20 years. Studies estimate, however, that the vaccine may last over the course of your lifetime.