Follow Business Insider: Fast food workers across the country are striking for better wages. The strikers are seeking to make $15 an hour—about twice the minimum wage in most states. We reached out to Glassdoor to find out how much the top fast food companies pay workers. Only one of the companies pays crew members above $10 an hour on average. Taco Bell ($7.37 an hour).
The basic pay rate for a salary as a Mc Donalds crew member is 7.25 dollars an hour. for example if a person works 20 or more hours per week, they are most likely to make abou … t 145.00 to 181.25 per month. The yearly pay for this amount of hourly work would come out to 1740.00 to 2175.00. 5 people found this useful. Orca trainers name about 200 dollars a day-not very much. That adds up to about 1,400 dollars a week. They're obviously not in it for the money.But for their curiosity abou … t the orcas. $1400 a week adds up to about $70,000 a year.
Report Abuse. minimum wage or student minimum wage depending on your age. here in Ontario it is $8.25 for students, which is what i got paid there. but you get raises every now and again, i think every six months. Source(s): experience; i worked there. 
With that in mind, McDonalds’ own sample budget confirms that, without a second job on top of full-time work at McDonalds, it’s not possible to make a personal budget work — even if, as Kiley points out, you don’t eat or pay for any heat in the winter. Add another $100 for your second job — or remove the second job’s income. C) Then explain your $250/month on food — less than $10 a day — to make up the $450/month you claim.
Official figures on McDonald's worker pay aren't publicly available, but the median wage for fast-food workers overall is $8.90 per hour. By comparison, former McDonald's CEO James Skinner raked in $9,247 for an hour of his precious time last year, according to NerdWallet. That means the average McDonald's employee would have to work for 3.86 months straight at an overtime wage -- or 1.5 times her regular hourly pay -- to match what Skinner made in an hou
Well, many McDonald’s restaurants are owned and managed by independent franchises. This means salaries can vary according to location. However, a crew trainer is a responsible role, right below the management team, and because of this you will earn more than a regular crew member. There are perks on top of the basic wage as well.
A McDonald's employee working overtime for nearly four months straight would make as much as the company's former CEO earned in just 60 minutes, according to an analysis published Tuesday. That means the average McDonald's employee would have to work for 3.86 months straight at an overtime wage -- or 1.5 times her regular hourly pay -- to match what Skinner made in an hour, according to NerdWallet.
In Michigan a McDonalds crew member starts out at $7.40 per hour. Every six months each crew member gets a performance review. Depending on how the crew member performed in th … e prior six months they earn anywhere between 5 cents and 25 cents. I'm not sure what maintenance/secondary maintenance and management make. Orca trainers name about 200 dollars a day-not very much. That adds up to about 1,400 dollars a week. They're obviously not in it for the money.But for their curiosity abou … t the orcas. $1400 a week adds up to about $70,000 a year.
So how much does a McDonald’s crew member make per year? after surveying numerous McDonald’s employees, it has been determined that the average McDonald’s crew member salary is $28,000 per year. 