Peridot Meaning. Peridot gemstones have been found in a large number of locations, including Brazil, Pakistan, Australia, Ireland, Russia, Sri Lanka, USA and Egypt. This is the gem quality stone of Forsterite Olivine, and it is a beautiful transparent, green colored stone. Where Does It Come From..
Peridot also bring abundance and prosperity. It enhances the healing and harmony of relationships of all kinds, but particularly marriage. Peridot is used in crystal healing to lessen stress, especially in relationships, anger and jealousy, slow aging, and heal ulcers and digestive problems. Periodot is associated with the heart chakra, and can be used to balance and stimulate that chakra. It is a stone of compassion. It has a friendly energy and is excellent for healing. It assists in rebirth and renewal of all kinds.
Peridot is a green gem stone, that is actually gem quality Olivine-a magnesium iron silicate mineral with the general chemical formula - (Mg, Fe)2SiO4. Olivine is actually a solid solution series with varying iron and magnesium content where: 100% magnesium, 0% iron = forsterite. 0% magnesium, 100% iron = fayalite. 
Peridot stone meaning is often related to the fact that it is a stone with strong earth and wood energy. This stone gives many positive properties to those who are passionate in knowledge seeking and study. Green Peridot is lucky stone for student. 
Peridot Meaning, Powers and History. Peridot is named after the French word peritot, meaning gold, because the mineral can vary towards this color. Peridot is the birthstone for the month of August. It is also the stone given to celebrate the 16th year of marriage. Peridot has a very long written history.
The meaning of the name Peridot comes from the French word 'peritot' which is believed to come from an Arabic word 'faridat', which means precious stone. It has also been called names such as 'poor mans Emerald' and 'Peles tears'. Where Does It Come From... Peridot gemstones have been found in a large number of locations, including Brazil, Pakistan, Australia, Ireland, Russia, Sri Lanka, USA and Egypt. This is the gem quality stone of Forsterite Olivine, and it is a beautiful transparent, green colored stone.
The meaning and symbology of peridot is one of friendliness, purity and simplicity. It is an excellent stone for protection, especially if worn around the neck to protect from negative energy. It is also perfect for the cleansing of negative emotions, such as jealousy or a wounded ego. 
Peridot. Periodot is associated with the heart chakra, and can be used to balance and stimulate that chakra. It is a stone of compassion. It has a friendly energy and is excellent for healing. It assists in rebirth and renewal of all kinds.
The Meaning and Symbolism of Peridot. The peridot is one of the lesser-known gemstones, despite its illustrious history, increasing rarity and lively beauty. Although a quality peridot is a bright shade of light green tinged with yellow, these gems are often mistaken for darker emeralds. 
Peridot is a gem variety from the olivine mineral group. The bottle green color is called peridot. Yellowish green is chrysolite. Olive green is olivine. Sources of peridot include: St. John's Island (Egypt), United States (Arizona and Hawaii), Myanmar, Burma, Australia, Norway, South Africa and Brazil. 