Foods to Avoid. If you’re trying to follow the Blood Type Diet, D'Adamo also lists foods that are not beneficial for each of the blood types. If you have type-A blood, stay out of the meat and dairy sections of the store. These protein-rich foods are on the “avoid” list for Type A’s. Poultry and eggs should be avoided, too. Animal foods are said to slow the metabolism of people with type A blood. D’Adamo recommends a vegetarian-style diet for Type A’s because he says this blood type evolved during more settled, agrarian times in human history. A type-A grocery list would include plenty of fruits and vegetables that are “fresh, pure and organic” to suit a Type A’s more sensitive immune system.
Pumpkin seeds and peanuts are good for blood type A individuals, says D'Adamo, as are beans and legumes like lentils, black-eyed peas, red soybeans, black beans and pinto beans. Type A people are warned to avoid pistachios, cashews and beans such as navy, red, garbanzo or kidney beans. Dairy Products and Eggs. Type A individuals following the Blood Type diet are instructed to avoid all dairy products and eggs. If you need a substitute, use rice or soy milk. Some type A people may be able to occasionally eat yogurt, goat cheese or kefir without experiencing health problems, says D'Adamo.
The antigens present in blood determine the blood type of a person. Antigens, A and B are present on the blood cell's surface and works as markers in the body. People with blood type o positive have an Rh antigen as well as A and B antigens present in the plasma. Type O is the most common blood type and is often sought out for blood donation as well because type O blood can be donated to people of any blood types without fear of rejection. Vegetables. The vegetables that are beneficial for people with type O blood are spinach, broccoli, kale, romaine lettuce and collard greens as they are rich in vitamin K. Vegetables like leeks, onions, garlic, artichokes, pumpkins and parsley can also be included with an o positive blood type diet.
D'Adamo recommends that people with type A blood eat plenty of fish, including salmon, sea or rainbow trout, red snapper, cod and mackerel. Chicken and poultry can be eaten up to two times a week, but D'Adamo says to avoid all beef, pork, game meats and shellfish. Dairy Products and Eggs. Type A individuals following the Blood Type diet are instructed to avoid all dairy products and eggs. If you need a substitute, use rice or soy milk. Some type A people may be able to occasionally eat yogurt, goat cheese or kefir without experiencing health problems, says D'Adamo.
If you have type A blood and suffer from diabetes, hypothyroidism, obsessive-compulsive disorder or are overweight, naturopath Peter D'Adamo says that you're probably eating foods that aren't compatible with your blood type. Dairy Products and Eggs. Type A individuals following the Blood Type diet are instructed to avoid all dairy products and eggs. If you need a substitute, use rice or soy milk. Some type A people may be able to occasionally eat yogurt, goat cheese or kefir without experiencing health problems, says D'Adamo.
D'Adamo claims that the foods you eat react chemically with your blood type. If you follow a diet designed for your blood type, your body will digest food more efficiently. You'll lose weight, have more energy, and help prevent disease. No. Exercise: The Blood Type Diet recommends exercises based on your blood type. For instance, it suggests yoga or tai chi for type A’s, and vigorous aerobic exercises like jogging or biking for up to an hour a day for type O’s.
What You Can Eat. That depends on your blood type. Here's what D'Adamo recommends for each type: Type O blood: A high-protein diet heavy on lean meat, poultry, fish, and vegetables, and light on grains, beans, and dairy. No. Exercise: The Blood Type Diet recommends exercises based on your blood type. For instance, it suggests yoga or tai chi for type A’s, and vigorous aerobic exercises like jogging or biking for up to an hour a day for type O’s.
Blood Type A Menu. On the blood type diet, a good breakfast if you're type A is whole-grain cereal, such as steel-cut oatmeal, along with fresh mixed fruit. Typical snacks for type A are foods such as fruit, nuts, seeds, rice cakes and peanut butter. For lunch, it's typical to have a large, hearty salad with lots of fresh vegetables. The Blood Type Diet Premise. D’Adamo theorizes that your blood type provides a distinctive marker for which foods are best for you, based on the diet of your ancestors with the same blood type. This means a nutritious diet for one blood type may include different foods than a nutritious diet for another