Job Duties. Surgical technicians, also called surgical technologists, work in operating rooms under the supervision of surgeons and surgical assistants. Your work may include preparing an operating room by setting up and sterilizing equipment, checking machines that monitor vitals, and assembling equipment for surgery. What Does a Surgical Technician Do? Surgical technicians or technologists-sometimes called scrubs-make sure that surgical procedures in the operating room are handled efficiently and under sterile conditions.
Wages and Salaries. As of 2011, surgical techs earned an average wage of $20.41 an hour, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. During the same period, surgical techs reported a mean income of $42,460 a year. The median earnings reported for surgical techs were $19.69 an hour, or $40,950 a year
A surgical technician, also called a surgical technologist, is a trained professional whose job is extremely important to people undergoing surgery. The roles of a surgical technician may vary among countries and even between medical facilities within a country. There is a difference between surgical technician and surgical assisting. Surgical assistants have Bachelor's Degrees and can assist the doctor in suturing, with caths, etc. Surgical tech's do not and should not perform such tasks.
The surgical technician is often responsible for removing all instruments used during the procedure. Surgical technicians sterilize instruments, prepare operating rooms and make sure that monitoring and other equipment is in working order. A surgical technician may help the medical team put on their gloves. There is a difference between surgical technician and surgical assisting. Surgical assistants have Bachelor's Degrees and can assist the doctor in suturing, with caths, etc. Surgical tech's do not and should not perform such tasks.
In 2011, the highest average pay for surgical techs was concentrated in the Northeast and West, and the lowest pay was concentrated in the south central region of the United States. Nevada ranked first among the states, with an average surgical tech salary of $53,990 a year, followed by Hawaii at $52,340. As of 2011, surgical techs earned an average wage of $20.41 an hour, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. During the same period, surgical techs reported a mean income of $42,460 a year.
What Surgical Technologists Do About this section. Surgical technologists may transport patients to surgery. Surgical technologists, also called operating room technicians, assist in surgical operations. They prepare operating rooms, arrange equipment, and help doctors during surgeries. Once the operation is complete, surgical technologists may apply bandages and other dressings to the incision site. They may also help transfer patients to recovery rooms and restock operating rooms after a procedure. Surgical first assistants have a hands-on role, directly assisting surgeons during
A scrub, also called a scrub tech, surgical technician or operating room technician, is an allied health professional working as a part of the team delivering surgical care. They work as members of the surgical team made up of surgeon, surgeon's assistant, circulation nurse and anesthesia provider. 
Surgical technologists, also known as scrub techs, surgical techs or surgical technicians, work in operating rooms along side surgeons and registered nurses. Surgical Technologist Salary. Surgical technologists, also known as scrub techs, surgical techs or surgical technicians, work in operating rooms along side surgeons and registered nurses. The surgical techs help prepare a sterile environment in the operating room.