With so many people worried about identity theft, this insurance is hot right now. But although the cost often seems reasonable, the benefits are usually very limited and “typically not worth the money, according to editors of Consumer Reports magazine. This week, Herb tackles the question of identity theft insurance, which aims to protect consumers against the after-effects of one of the nation's fastest-growing crimes. A friend and I were discussing ID theft insurance, and she asked about buying it.
1 A significant deductible, such as $500 or more, is not unusual for identity theft insurance, Barnett says. 2  If the costs to repair the damage to your identity are less than the deductible, you may not get any help with those bills. 1 Even if an identity theft insurance policy will reimburse or offset the costs involved in resolving the incident, it won't reduce the time and hassle required to rectify the situation. 2  Ask if the insurer will provide help with any of the recovery work.
The National Association of Insurance Commissioners says the typical cost of identity theft insurance ranges from $25 to $60 per year. The insurance may include credit alerts, account and credit monitoring, and reimbursement for the costs associated with repairing your credit history if you become a victim. On the other hand, Wood says she pays for a credit monitoring service. An alternative to full-blown identity theft insurance policies, credit monitoring typically cost about $10 per month.
Some companies now include coverage for identity theft as part of their homeowners insurance policy. Check your policy to find out. Others sell it as either a stand-alone policy or as an endorsement to a homeowners or renters insurance policy which can run about $25-$50 annually. Identity Theft. Identity theft is the act of taking someone’s personal information and using it to impersonate a victim, steal from bank accounts, establish phony insurance policies, open unauthorized credit cards or obtain unauthorized bank loans.
Identity theft insurance provides reimbursement to crime victims for the cost of restoring their identity and repairing credit reports. It generally covers expenses such as phone bills, lost wages, notary and certified mailing costs, and sometimes attorney fees (with the prior consent of the insurer). Identity Theft. Identity theft is the act of taking someone’s personal information and using it to impersonate a victim, steal from bank accounts, establish phony insurance policies, open unauthorized credit cards or obtain unauthorized bank loans.
The insurance does not protect you from identity theft – nothing can really do that – and the policy certainly does not cover monetary losses. The NAIC says most policies typically have benefit limits ranging from $10,000 to $15,000. On the other hand, Wood says she pays for a credit monitoring service. An alternative to full-blown identity theft insurance policies, credit monitoring typically cost about $10 per month.