A follicle-stimulating hormone test measures the amount of follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) in a blood sample. FSH is produced by the pituitary gland. 1  In women, FSH helps control the menstrual cycle and the production of eggs by the ovaries. Why It Is Done. A follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) test may be done to: 1  Help find the cause of infertility. 2  FSH testing is commonly used to help evaluate a: 3  Woman's egg supply (ovarian reserve). 4  Man's low sperm count. 5  Help evaluate menstrual problems, such as irregular or absent menstrual periods (amenorrhea)
The follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) blood test measures the level of FSH in blood. FSH is a hormone released by the pituitary gland, located on the underside of the brain. 
Menotropins are a mixture of follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) and luteinizing hormone (LH) that are produced in the body by the pituitary gland. Menotropins injection is used in women with healthy ovaries who are enrolled in a fertility program called assisted reproductive technology (ART). 
Follicle stimulating hormone is one of the gonadotrophic hormones, the other being luteinising hormone. Both are released by the pituitary gland into the bloodstream. Follicle stimulating hormone is one of the hormones essential to pubertal development and the function of women’s ovaries and men’s testes. However as the follicle matures, and more and more oestrogen is produced from the follicles, it simulates a surge in luteinising hormone and follicle stimulating hormone which stimulates the release of an egg from a mature follicle – ovulation.
The Test. The test for follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH), a hormone associated with reproduction and the development of eggs in women and sperm in men, has several uses. 
Glossary. Luteinizing hormone (LH) and follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) are called gonadotropins because stimulate the gonads-in males, the testes, and in females, the ovaries. They are not necessary for life, but are essential for reproduction. Gonadotropins: Luteinizing and Follicle Stimulating Hormones
Follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) is a glycoprotein gonadotropin secreted by the anterior pituitary in response to gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) released by the hypothalamus. The pituitary gland also secretes luteinizing hormone (LH), another gonadotropin. FSH and LH are composed of alpha and beta subunits. 
GnRH stimulates (causes) the pituitary gland to produce follicle stimulating hormone (FSH), the hormone responsible for starting follicle (egg) development and causing the level of estrogen (the primary female hormone) to rise. As the levels of FSH and LH in the blood increase with puberty, the eggs begin to mature and a collection of fluid (the follicle) begins to develop around each. The first day of menses is identified as cycle day one.
Follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) is a glycoprotein hormone found in humans and other animals. It is synthesized and secreted by gonadotropes of the anterior pituitary gland, and regulates the development, growth, pubertal maturation, and reproductive processes of the body. FSH and luteinizing hormone (LH) act synergistically in reproduction.