You will need to have held your Georgia instructional permit for 12 months before you can be issued a driver's license, and your time with your out-of-state permit WILL count toward this time.
A GA driver’s license, permit, or ID card issued to parent, guardian, spouse or other immediate family member residing in the same household. The immediate family member must be present and provide their GA driver’s license, permit or ID card in person.
To transfer your out-of-state permit, you will need either: 1  Your current permit. 2  OR. 3  A certified copy of your driving record that is no more than 30 days old, if your permit was lost or stolen.
Georgia Permits. A Georgia permit, also called an instructional permit, is a requirement of the Teenage and Adult Driver Responsibility Act (TADRA). TADRA is a graduated driver's license (GDL) process that consists of several licensing stages for teen drivers.
Forms You’ll Need to Present at the Georgia DDS. To make things easier, follow the instructions below, have all your documents in order, make an appointment with the Georgia DDS to take your permit exam and you should have no problems.
To apply for a instructional permit in Georgia, you must be at least 15 years old. Visit a DDS Customer Service Center in person and: 1  Complete an application form. 2  Your parent, guardian, or authorized driver's education instructor must sign your application.
Birth Certificate, Passport, etc.), then you must be prepared to present additional support documents (ex. Marriage Certificate, Divorce Decree, Adoption Decree, etc.). 1  Customers who hold a GA Driver’s License or ID Card are to present the original or certified copy document which supports the. 2  name change.
1 Have held your Georgia instructional permit for at least 12 months. 2  Be at least 16 years old (or 17 years old if you have not completed an approved Driver's Ed class). 3  Complete supervised driving hours (see “ Behind-the-Wheel Driving Requirements  above). 4  Pass a driving test.
C) Take the GA Learner’s Permit Exam. With your parent or legal guardian, required documents and fees, head to any GA Customer Service Center. The state administers tests on a walk-in basis, so look online for the nearest branch. In addition to signing for you, your parent or legal guardian must present: