The Professional Speakers Guild is an organization that embraces speakers, trainers, authors and meeting professionals who are committed to continual self-improvement, high ethical standards and a desire to advance our industry. Members can ask questions and exchange advice in a periodic Members Only forum. Members may display the Professional Speakers Guild logo on stationery, brochures and other items as permitted in the organization's guidelines.
1 Increasing public understanding of your organization: If you find that the public doesn't seem to have a good understanding of what your group is and what you do, a speakers bureau can help clear up misconceptions and educate people about your purpose, services, and activities. Find out who is the contact person in each group responsible for scheduling speaking engagements, then create a phone list and mailing list that can be used in sending out information about your speakers bureau. It's important to follow up later with phone calls and mailings.
When an organization decides to start a speakers bureau, it puts together a list of potential speakers it feels are qualified to talk to the public about its area of interest or expertise is put together. Find out who is the contact person in each group responsible for scheduling speaking engagements, then create a phone list and mailing list that can be used in sending out information about your speakers bureau. It's important to follow up later with phone calls and mailings.
Additionally, organization aids in strategic emphasis, as speakers often focus on their strongest points first and last. Organization assures that a speaker displays themselves as credible and in command of the knowledge. 1 Second, the audience does not give the expected answer, and the speaker becomes disappointed, then flustered, then embarrassed. 2  A wide spectrum of human emotion is experienced by the speaker in front of a crowd of onlookers. 3  This is not good.
The National Speakers Association (NSA) is a professional speakers' organization that supports the pursuit of public speaking as a business. The organization's website says NSA provides resources and education designed to advance the skills, integrity, and values of its members and the speaking profession. Public speaking (sometimes termed oratory or oration) is the process or act of performing a presentation (a speech) focused around an individual directly speaking to a live audience in a structured, deliberate manner in order to inform, influence, or entertain them.
NSA Foundation. The NSA Foundation is the philanthropic arm of the National Speakers Association and serves to help those members and families of our NSA Community, as well as those in need in our larger global community. 
National Speakers Association (NSA) is the premier organization for professional speakers. Since our founding in 1973, we have helped tens of thousands of speakers perfect their craft, build thriving businesses, and achieve the levels of growth and contribution they seek. Since 1973... 
The voice of the speaker is one of authority. This is a guy who knows the score. Check it out: he knows what's going on in the kitchen. He knows what's going on in the bedroom. He knows the local folk (the muscular one and the wenches). Most importantly, he knows what this whole wake-scene means. 
The client can then call you directly or connect to your web site if one is available. To try this feature, click on the Find a Speaker button to the left, insert a search word such as leadership or National Speakers Association, or you may use a member's name. To see a sample member page click here. Members can publish articles of interest in our public forum, which all site visitors can view. Members can ask questions and exchange advice in a periodic Members Only forum. Members may display the Professional Speakers Guild logo on stationery, brochures and other items as permitted in the organization's guidelines.