In the context of biology, homology is the existence of shared ancestry between a pair of structures, or genes, in different species. A common example of homologous structures in evolutionary biology are the wings of bats and the arms of primates. Evolutionary theory explains the existence of homologous structures adapted to different purposes as the result of descent with modification from a common ancestor.
1 The term, homolog, may apply to the relationship between genes separated by the event of speciation (see ortholog) or to the relationship betwen genes separated by the event of genetic duplication (see paralog). 2  Orthologs are genes in different species that evolved from a common ancestral gene by speciation.
1 A gene related to a second gene by descent from a common ancestral DNA sequence. 2  The term, homolog, may apply to the relationship between genes separated by the event of speciation (see ortholog) or to the relationship betwen genes separated by the event of genetic duplication (see paralog).
The word homology, coined in about 1656, derives from the Greek ὁμόλογος homologos from ὁμός homos same and λόγος logos relation. In biology, two things are homologous if they bear the same relationship to one another, such as a certain bone in various forms of the hand.
Definition of Homolog, Ortholog and Paralog. It was suggested that I might want to provide definitions which made the difference between these terms clear. These definitions are provided here. 1  A gene related to a second gene by descent from a common ancestral DNA sequence.
Homology is a relationship defined between structures or DNA derived from a common ancestor. Homologous traits of organisms are therefore explained by descent
Medical Definition of HOMOLOGY. 1. a: likeness in structure between parts of different organisms due to evolutionary differentiation from the same or a corresponding part of a remote ancestor—compare analogy, homomorphy b: correspondence in structure between different parts of the same individual. 2.