Step 3. Wearing gloves, eye protection and a breathing mask, spread Preen granules on the surface of the raked soil at the rate of 1 pound for every 640 square feet if your soil is heavy clay, or 1 pound per 960 square feet for medium loamy soils, or 1 pound per 1,280 square feet for light, sandy soils. Overview. Preen is the commercial name of a weed preventive made by the Lebanon Seaboard Corporation and designed to prevent new weeds from sprouting in your vegetable garden. Preen may be applied to the ground just prior to planting your vegetables or vegetable seeds. Preen will not taint any produce that you grow.
Once activated by watering, it forms a weed control barrier in the top layer of soil (1 – 2 inches), preventing weed seeds from germinating. Disturbance to the soil surface after activation may result in erratic weed control. None; Preen ® Garden Weed Preventer helps to prevent its label listed weed seeds from germinating up to 12 weeks per application. It does not kill or inhibit existing weeds in any way.
Sprinkle Preen on top of the mulch being sure to keep granules away from plant foliage. Immediately water this product into the mulch. If watering-in is not convenient, lightly rake into top layer of mulch. None; Preen ® Garden Weed Preventer helps to prevent its label listed weed seeds from germinating up to 12 weeks per application. It does not kill or inhibit existing weeds in any way.
Application Instructions. You can apply Preen directly to soil. If you're using mulch to suppress weeds and hold in moisture, spread it to a 2-inch thickness and apply Preen on top at the rate of 1 ounce per 10 square feet. Water to activate. If watering isn’t convenient, you can rake the product in lightly. Weed preventers like Preen are pre-emergent herbicides that stop seeds from germinating or growing roots and shoots. Apply the product after you’ve planted your flowers when seedlings are at least 2 to 3 inches tall, with true leaves.
Preen ® Garden Weed Preventer will not start to work until rain or watering occurs. If watering is not an option, time your application with rain. Lightly rake Preen ® Garden Weed Preventer into the soil surface to protect it from sunlight until rain occurs. None; Preen ® Garden Weed Preventer helps to prevent its label listed weed seeds from germinating up to 12 weeks per application. It does not kill or inhibit existing weeds in any way.
Spring’s arrival brings lush green grass, and unwanted weeds in your lawn. Applying Preen Lawn Weed Control to your lawn when weeds are actively growing kills them without harming your lawn. To reduce the risk of drift and wash-off, apply Preen on a calm day when rain is not expected for at least 24 hours. Recommended settings are found on the Preen Lawn Weed Control label. Apply Preen early in the morning when grass is covered with dew. If dew is absent, lightly water the area to be treated with a garden hose.
Step 4. Sprinkle 1 oz. of Preen granules over every 10 square feet of soil area directly over the mulch. Make sure you apply the Preen evenly. Keep the Preen 2 to 3 inches away from each plant to avoid contact with foliage or roots. If Preen accidentally touches plants, brush it off immediately. Remove existing weeds before you apply the Preen Weed Preventer. Use the garden spade or the hand rake to loosen the soil well. Pull all weeds from the growing area and discard them. Rake the soil surface smooth with the rake.
Use the same amount of Preen regardless of whether you’re applying it directly onto the soil or on top of the mulch. Apply Preen when the garden is dry; if you apply when wet the granules could stick to the leaves. This can cause leaf damage or discoloration. It’s very important to water in Preen. Water activates Preen. You may water with a hose, or sprinkler, or rain if a soaking rain is expected within the next day or so. After you water in any new application, don’t allow people or pets to walk in the bed until it is once again dry. Preen garden weed preventers stop weeds when they're seeds. Here's the short course on getting the jump on weeds. Applying Preen Weed Preventer 79296 views. You can start your Preen routine any time before or during the growing season.
Preen is very easy to apply. You just sprinkle it onto the soil or mulch. Exact application rate is on the label. Generally figure 1 oz. per 10 square feet for Preen® Garden Weed Preventer and just under 2/3 oz. for Preen® Weed Preventer for Southern Gardens. As a rule of thumb, the granules should be spaced approximately as you see them here, relative to a quarter coin. Preen garden weed preventers stop weeds when they're seeds. Here's the short course on getting the jump on weeds. Applying Preen Weed Preventer 79296 views. You can start your Preen routine any time before or during the growing season.