1 Pressure is a normal stress, and hence has dimensions of force per unit area, or {ML -1 T -2 2  }. In the English system of units, pressure is expressed as psi or lbf/in 2. 3  In the Metric system of units, pressure is expressed as pascals or N/m 2. 4  Standard atmospheric pressure is 101.3 kPa (0.1013 MPa) or 14.69 psi. 
Pressure is an expression of force exerted on a surface per unit area. The standard unit of pressure is the pascal (Pa), equivalent to one newton per meter squared (N/m 2 or N · m -2). Alternatively, pressure can be measured in dyne s per centimeter squared (dyn/cm 2 or dyn · cm -2). 
Atmospheric pressure is defined as the force per unit area exerted against a surface by the weight of the air above that surface. In the diagram below, the pressure at point X increases as the weight of the air above it increases. At sea level, the weight of the air above this unit area would (on average) weigh 14.7 pounds! That means pressure applied by this air on the unit area would be 14.7 pounds per square inch. Meteorologists use a metric unit for pressure called a millibar and the average pressure at sea level is 1013.25 millibars.
Some of these derive from a unit of force divided by a unit of area; the SI unit of pressure, the pascal (Pa), for example, is one newton per square metre; similarly, the pound-force per square inch (psi) is the traditional unit of pressure in the imperial and US customary systems. The SI unit for pressure is the pascal (Pa), equal to one newton per square metre (N/m 2 or kg·m −1 ·s −2). This name for the unit was added in 1971; before that, pressure in SI was expressed simply in newtons per square metre. Other units of pressure, such as pounds per square inch and bar, are also in common use.
The standard unit for pressure is the Pascal, which is a Newton per square meter. For an object sitting on a surface, the force pressing on the surface is the weight of the object, but in different orientations it might have a different area in contact with the surface and therefore exert a different pressure.
1. Pressure is defined as force per unit area that a fluid exerts on its surroundings. You can measure this force by detecting the amount of deflection on a diaphragm positioned inline with the fluid. Given the known area of the diaphragm, pressure can then be calculated
Pressure is defined as force per unit area. It is usually more convenient to use pressure rather than force to describe the influences upon fluid behavior. For an object sitting on a surface, the force pressing on the surface is the weight of the object, but in different orientations it might have a different area in contact with the surface and therefore exert a different pressure.
Pressure is defined as the normal force per unit area of a surface. If F is the force acting normal to the surface area A,then the pressure P is given by : P = F/A, Newtons/square meter or P = F/A Pascals. (Answer #22). Pressure is defined as force per unit area.. The formula for pressure is `P = (F)/(A)`, which stands for `Pressure = (Force)/(Area)`. You could use this formula for many different things, but one example would be the difference in force between an object placed at different angles.
Pressure (symbol: p or P) is the force applied perpendicular to the surface of an object per unit area over which that force is distributed. Gauge pressure (also spelled gage pressure) is the pressure relative to the local atmospheric or ambient pressure. Various units are used to express pressure. The SI unit for pressure is the pascal (Pa), equal to one newton per square metre (N/m 2 or kg·m −1 ·s −2). This name for the unit was added in 1971; before that, pressure in SI was expressed simply in newtons per square metre. Other units of pressure, such as pounds per square inch and bar, are also in common use.