For example, the domain name EXAMPLE.COM is part of the .COM Top Level Domain and the domain EXAMPLE.ORG is part of the .ORG Top Level Domain. 
A top-level domain, or TLD, is the most generic part of a domain name and one that all domain names require. The most common TLDs are: . 1 com. .net. . 2 org. . 3 edu. Generic TLDs or gTLDs. Generic TLDs (gTLD) are top-level domains that are not related to a specific country. There are dozens of gTLDs for various purposes. Some are restricted and some are not. Some of the unrestricted gTLDs you might come across include: . 1 biz. . 2 info. . 3 name.
A TLD identifies something about the website associated with it, such as its purpose, the organization that owns it or the geographical area where it originates. Each TLD has a separate registry managed by a designated organization under the direction of the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN). ICANN identifies the following categories of TLDs: 1  Country-code top-level domains (ccTLD) -- Each ccTLD identifies a particular country and is two letters long. 2  The ccTLD for the United States, for example, is .us.
A top-level domain (TLD) is the last segment of the domain name. The TLD is the letters immediately following the final dot in an Internet address. ICANN identifies the following categories of TLDs: 1  Country-code top-level domains (ccTLD) -- Each ccTLD identifies a particular country and is two letters long. 2  The ccTLD for the United States, for example, is .us.
The top-level domain (TLD) is the very last section of an Internet domain name, located after the last dot, to help form a fully qualified domain name (FQDN). 
In our Internet address, http://whatis.techtarget.com: com is the top-level domain name; techtarget.com is the second-level domain name; and whatis is a subdomain name. All together, these constitute a fully-qualified domain name (FQDN); the addition of HTTP:// makes an FQDN a complete URL. ICANN identifies the following categories of TLDs: 1  Country-code top-level domains (ccTLD) -- Each ccTLD identifies a particular country and is two letters long. 2  The ccTLD for the United States, for example, is .us.
For other uses, see TLD (disambiguation) . A top-level domain (TLD) is one of the domains at the highest level in the hierarchical Domain Name System of the Internet. The top-level domain names are installed in the root zone of the name space. For all domains in lower levels, it is the last part of the domain name, that is, the last label of a fully qualified domain name. For example, in the domain name www.example.com, the top-level domain is com.
A top-level domain (TLD) is the part of the domain name located to the right of the dot ( . ). The most common TLDs are .com, .net, and .org. Some others are .biz, .info, and .ws. These common TLDs all have certain guidelines, but are generally available to any registrant, anywhere in the world. 