Spleen Location. Spleen is the biggest lymphoid organ present in the upper far left portion of the abdomen in the left hypochondrium and is surrounded by peritoneum. Spleen is 1 inch thick, 3 inches broad and 5 inches long. The enlargement of spleen is referred to as splenomegaly. 
Front View of the Spleen. The spleen is an organ in the upper far left part of the abdomen, to the left of the stomach. The spleen varies in size and shape between people, but it’s commonly fist-shaped, purple, and about 4 inches long. Because the spleen is protected by the rib cage, you can’t easily feel it unless it’s abnormally enlarged.
Protected by our ribs, the spleen is located between the stomach and the diaphragm in the left hypochondriac region of the abdominal body cavity. 
Spleen. The spleen is located in the upper left abdominal cavity, just beneath the diaphragm, and posterior to the stomach. It is similar to a lymph node in shape and structure but it is much larger. The spleen is the largest lymphatic organ in the body
The human spleen is an organ that creates lymphocytes for the destruction and recycling of old red-blood cells. The spleen is also a blood reservoir. It supplies the body with blood in emergencies such as a bad cut. The spleen is also the location where white blood cells trap organisms. The spleen is shaped like a loose fist and is tucked under the left side of the diaphragm. The average weight of an adult spleen is 0.44 lbs.
The spleen plays multiple supporting roles in the body. It acts as a filter for blood as part of the immune system. Old red blood cells are recycled in the spleen, and platelets and white blood cells are stored there. The spleen also helps fight certain kinds of bacteria that cause pneumonia and meningitis. The spleen is an organ in the upper far left part of the abdomen, to the left of the stomach. The spleen varies in size and shape between people, but it’s commonly fist-shaped, purple, and about 4 inches long. Because the spleen is protected by the rib cage, you can’t easily feel it unless it’s abnormally enlarged.
While everybody is familiar with organs like brain, lungs and liver, there do exist some organs which are relatively unknown to people. One such less-known organ of the human body system is spleen-a dark-red oval shaped organ located in the left half of the body. Spleen function in humans is mostly related to the production of red blood cells and proper functioning of the immune system. 
Spleen Function, Location, Size and Disorders. Spleen is the largest lymphatic organ in the human body. Lymphatic or lymphoid organs are the major parts of the immune system of our body. Function of the immune system is to protect the host (i.e. human body) from the invasion of foreign organisms. Location of the spleen. Spleen weighs about 150 gm in adults and lies under the diaphragm in the left upper part of the abdomen at the level between 9th and 11th ribs. Anterior to the spleen lies stomach and medially lies the superior part of the left kidney.
The human spleen is an organ found in humans with important roles in regard to red blood cells and the immune system. It is located in the left upper quadrant of the abdomen. The spleen is part of your lymphatic system, which fights infection and keeps your body fluids in balance. It contains white blood cells that fight germs. The human spleen also helps control the amount of blood in human body, and destroys old and damaged cells. The spleen is encased in a thick connective-tissue capsule.
The spleen is located under the ribcage and above the stomach in the left upper quadrant of the abdomen. Adult spleens are usually about 5 inches wide and weigh about 6 ounces. Spleens are soft and purple, possessing many blood vessels. Function. “The spleen. . . acts as a blood filter; it controls the amount of red blood cells and blood storage in the body, and helps to fight infection,” said Jordan Knowlton, an advanced registered nurse practitioner at the University of Florida Health Shands Hospital.