8. Start as a trainee technician or technician helper to build skills through work with experienced automotive technicians. 1  On the average, it takes 2-5 years to become a fully qualified auto service technician. 2  Specialties may require an additional 1-2 years of training and experience. Edit Article. A person with good manual dexterity and a desire to figure out problems often has what it takes to become an auto mechanic, also known as an automotive service technician. An automobile mechanic provides maintenance and repairs for cars and trucks. This requires an ability to stay current with automotive technologies
Certification is required to be a mechanic. The National Institute for Automotive Service Excellence (ASE) is an organization that offers certification in eight specialty areas for auto mechanics, including engine restoration, heating and air-conditioning, electrical structures, brake systems and steering. Step 4: Receive Employer Training. Employer training for mechanics typically lasts for a couple of months, and candidates must work with experts as lubricant workers, trainee technicians or automotive helpers.
Qualifications for auto mechanics To become a car mechanic, or technician as we like to be called, you need to obtain education in the field. If you are in high school you may want to ask your guidance councelor if there are automotive courses you can take. If this is not available, then you should graduate school and go to an accredited technical school. After twelve to eighteen months of training your school will usually help you to find a job.
The time it takes to become a mechanic varies depending on the path you choose and your local licensing requirements. Although there isn’t just one path to becoming a mechanic, it generally takes between two and five years to complete all of the necessary training. Complete On-The-Job Training. To become a fully qualified senior mechanic or service technician, you must complete two to five years of on-the-job training. Most mechanics start in entry-level trainee positions before becoming technician helpers or lubrication workers.
Learn about the education and preparation needed to become a mechanic. Get a quick view of the requirements as well as details about education, job duties and on-the-job training to find out if this is the career for you. View 10 Popular Schools ». Step 4: Receive Employer Training. Employer training for mechanics typically lasts for a couple of months, and candidates must work with experts as lubricant workers, trainee technicians or automotive helpers.
If you want to specialize in an automotive skill, you can also complete an automotive short-term certificate program. It is also possible to earn an associate’s degree in preparation for a career as a mechanic. In addition to automotive repair and computer classes, students often take customer service courses. Complete On-The-Job Training. To become a fully qualified senior mechanic or service technician, you must complete two to five years of on-the-job training. Most mechanics start in entry-level trainee positions before becoming technician helpers or lubrication workers.