HS refers to the Harmonized Commodity Description and Coding System which is a comprehensive product classi … fication system designed and managed by the World Customs Organization. The HS covers more than 98% of all merchandise in global trade, and governs nearly every aspect of International Trade Logistics. The HS is based on the fundamental principle that goods are classified by what they are and not according to their stage of fabrication, use, made in status or any other such criteria.
If the primary method for initiating a harmonized code search fails to result in an applicable match, an alternative search approach is available. Scroll to the bottom of the search results window associated with your commodity query and click the Search the Harmonized Tariff Book Directly link. Harmonized Code Search. Use Harmonized Code Search to identify the proper harmonized code to associate with each commodity included in your shipment. Entering the correct harmonized code allows FedEx to help you determine the necessary customs documentation as well as make a more accurate duty and tax estimate.
Confidence votes 830. The HS (Harmonized Commodity Description and Coding System) is an international system of names and numbers for classifying traded products created by the World Customs Organization and used in determining tariffs on items shipped internationally. The HS is based on the fundamental principle that goods are classified by what they are and not according to their stage of fabrication, use, made in status or any other such criteria.
You can use our content for free~! Customs Search. HS code: Tariff code: Customs code: Export code: Import code: Harmonized Commodity code All Countries HS Code List Search help you find what you're looking for Harmonized System Code. 
A tariff code is a product-specific code as documented in the Harmonized System (HS) maintained by the World Customs Organization (WCO). Tariff codes exist for almost every product involved in global commerce. Required on official shipping documents for tax assessment purposes, a tariff code ensures uniformity of product classification world wide. A complete tariff code is no less than six digits and can be up to ten. The more digits in a tariff code string, the more specific the product it identifies. A string of less than six digits is considered a partial tariff code and represents a broad product category or chapter of products in the HS
The Harmonized Commodity Description and Coding Systems generally referred to as Harmonized System or simply HS is a multipurpose international product nomenclature developed by the World Customs Organization (WCO). The system is used by more than 200 countries and economies as a basis for their Customs tariffs and for the collection of international trade statistics. Over 98 % of the merchandise in international trade is classified in terms of the HS.
Check on the right side under HS CODES.. Here is the definition according to WCO website, The Harmonized Commodity Description and Coding System generally referred to as “Harmonized System” or simply “HS” is a multipurpose international product nomenclature developed by the World Customs Organization (WCO). HS Code, you would have seen this terminology across many documentation or correspondences.. HS Code stands for Harmonized Commodity Description and Coding System.. This is the common standard worldwide for describing the type of commodity..
The Harmonized Commodity Description and Coding System, also known as the Harmonized System (HS) of tariff nomenclature is an internationally standardized system of names and numbers to classify traded products. Codes have been revised through the years. If it is necessary to refer to a code used in a past trade issue, contracting parties must refer to the definition used at the time of the agreement. These past codes are available on the World Customs Organization website as of May 2014, in their Publications section.
The HS is thus a universal economic language and code for goods, and an indispensable tool for international trade. The Harmonized System is governed by The International Convention on the Harmonized Commodity Description and Coding System. Over 98 % of the merchandise in international trade is classified in terms of the HS. The HS contributes to the harmonization of Customs and trade procedures, and the non-documentary trade data interchange in connection with such procedures, thus reducing the costs related to