A biopsy is a procedure to remove a piece of tissue or a sample of cells from your body so that it can be analyzed in a laboratory. 
Excisional biopsy. A skin (cutaneous) biopsy removes cells from the surface of your body. A skin biopsy is used most often to diagnose skin conditions, including cancers, such as melanoma. What type of skin biopsy you undergo will depend on the type of cancer suspected and the extent of the suspicious cells. Skin biopsy procedures include: 1  Shave biopsy. If the cells are cancerous, the biopsy results can tell your doctor where the cancer originated — the type of cancer. A biopsy also helps your doctor determine how aggressive your cancer is — the cancer's grade.
The doctors said my biospy was inconclusive more test needed I thought doing a biospy gives you a yes or no answer. I am sorry to hear that you are dealing with this issue. It sounds like you are being evaluated for potential breast cancer, and this can be a very stressful time. Alternatively, it could be because the tissue had some abnormalities or irregularities in it that were of unclear significance. Your doctor will work closely with the pathologist who examined the biopsy sample and also potentially with a surgeon to determine what the next step is.
So she had thyroid biopsy done but that was also inconclusive. Doctor's office told her that not enough sample was taken to make a conclusive determination. So Doctor's office is... show more My wife noticed that area around her thyroid had slight bump. So she had ultrasound done but it was inconclusive. So she had thyroid biopsy done but that was also inconclusive. Doctor&#39;s office told her that not enough sample was taken to make a conclusive determination. So Doctor&#39;s... Source(s): thyroid biopsy inconclusive: https://trimurl.im/g24/why-would-thyroid...
If the cells in question can't be accessed with other biopsy procedures or if other biopsy results have been inconclusive, your doctor may recommend a surgical biopsy. During a surgical biopsy, a surgeon makes an incision in your skin to access the suspicious area of cells. If the cells are cancerous, the biopsy results can tell your doctor where the cancer originated — the type of cancer. A biopsy also helps your doctor determine how aggressive your cancer is — the cancer's grade.
The node results were inconclusive due to necrotic tissue collected. The biopsy of the mass returned as non malignant but also mentioned necrotic tissue. Her oncologist still suspects cancer and we are awaiting removal of the lymph node for biopsy of some live tissue. The wait and see game is tough. 
There are many reasons that a breast biopsy could be inconclusive. This could be because the amount of tissue that was obtained was not sufficient to reach a conclusion (for example, if you had a needle biopsy, this can sometimes happen). Alternatively, it could be because the tissue had some abnormalities or irregularities in it that were of unclear significance. Your doctor will work closely with the pathologist who examined the biopsy sample and also potentially with a surgeon to determine what the next step is.
A biopsy is a medical procedure that involves taking a small sample of body tissue so it can be examined under a microscope. A tissue sample can be taken from almost anywhere on or in your body, including the skin, organs and other structures. A biopsy is sometimes inconclusive, which means it hasn't produced a definitive result. In this case, the biopsy may need to be repeated, or other tests may be required to confirm your diagnosis. Page last reviewed: 17/06/2015.
40% helpful. Linda Ackerman, R.N. answered... Inconclusive could mean that there were not enough cells to test, based on the biopsy sample, or something could have gone wrong during the shipping and handling of the tissue, which hindered the pathologist ability to analyze the cells. I would recommend asking your physician specifically about the findings: 