Most of these species are referred to as a group – viridans streptococci. They are also sometimes referred to as “green strep” owing to the color of blood agar surrounding the colonies. Many different species comprise the
Strep is short for Streptococcus, a type of bacteria. There are two types: group A and group B. Group A strep causes. 1  Strep throat-a sore, red throat, sometimes with white spots on the tonsils. 2  Scarlet fever-an illness that follows strep throat. 3  It causes a red rash on the body. 4  Impetigo-a skin infection.
Michael Melia, M.D. Streptococcus species is a topic covered in the Johns Hopkins Antibiotic (ABX) Guide. To view the entire topic, please sign in or purchase a subscription. Johns Hopkins Guides provide diagnosis, management, and treatment guidance for infectious diseases, diabetes, and psychiatric conditions.
1 The streptococci are a very heterogeneous group of bacteria. 2  Some members are a part of our normal flora while others are potent pathogens. 3  The primary pathogens are S. pyogenes and S. pneumoniae but other species can be opportunistic.
Streptococcus Genus Characteristics Many members of the Streptococcus genus are normal flora to the mouth, nose, and throat. The genus Streptococcus is a complex group causing a wide range of diseases such as: rheumatic fever, impetigo, pharyngitis, laryngitis, toxic shock syndrome, scarlet fever, and endocarditis. Streptococci are often classified based on hemolysis which can be seen by their reaction on blood agar.
Group B streptococcus (GBS) has only one species, i.e., S. agalactiae, but is subclassified into 7 capsular serotypes, namely: Ia, Ib, II, III, IV, V, and VI. Type III is most commonly associated with neonatal disease while Ia and Ib with adult diseases (25, 91). GABS is discussed elsewhere in this textbook.
Groups A and B are the most common and devastating human pathogens. Group A Streptococcus bacteria causes disease ranging from streptococcal sore throat (strep throat) to necrotizing fasciitis (flesh-eating disease).