Omega Psi Phi Fraternity, Inc. is the first international fraternal organization to be founded on the campus of a historically black college. Omega Psi Phi was founded on November 17, 1911, at Howard University in Washington, D.C.
Sigma Phi Society, founded at the same institution in the spring of 1827, and the second-oldest fraternity, was the first to establish a branch chapter at another college. It, too, has severely restricted expansion, having granted but 14 charters in its history.
However, Pi Beta Phi did not officially adopt a Greek-letter name until 1888. Kappa Alpha Theta, founded in 1870 at DePauw in Indiana, was the first Greek-letter society for women. Kappa Kappa Gamma Fraternity was founded in the same year at Monmouth College, Illinois.
Chapters Multiply. In 1831, Sigma Phi Society became the first fraternity to establish a second chapter, which it placed at Hamilton College in Clinton, N.Y. In 1832, the Alpha Delta Phi Fraternity was founded at the same college.
Pi Beta Phi came into being in 1867 as the first organization of college women established as a national college fraternity. Kappa Alpha Theta was organized in January 1870, as the first Greek-letter society for women.
The first Greek letter organization was Phi Beta Kappa, which was founded on December 5, 1776 at the College of William and Mary in Williamsburg, VA, the second oldest institution of higher learning in America (Harvard is the oldest).
Sigma Phi was the first of the union Triad to establish a branch organization when it placed its Beta chapter at Hamilton College in 1831. One year later Alpha Delta Phi was founded by the students at Hamilton to rival the Sigma Phi's.
Pi Beta Phi sorority, founded in 1867 at Monmouth College in Illinois, was the first organization of college women actually established as a national college women's fraternity.. (The word sorority came into usage later).
On March 15, 1921, the first NPHC fraternity, Omega Psi Phi, was founded at Penn State. Omega Psi Phi operated a chapter home on Allen Street and was the lone NPHC fraternity until the late 1950's. There was rapid expansion of NPHC fraternities and sororities during the 1980's and 90's.
In 1776, the Phi Beta Kappa Society, the first American society to bear a Greek-letter name, was born at the College of William and Mary in Williamsburg, Va. Like the fraternities of today, it had a ritual that was secret to all but its members, as well as a secret motto, grip and password.