The purpose of this charge is to recover our costs. The fee will help AT&T recover those costs associated with providing state-to-state and international long distance service, including expenses for national regulatory fees and programs, as well as connection and account servicing charges. This fee applies for each month in which you have any AT&T state-to-state and/or international charges on your bill. The Carrier Cost Recovery Fee appears as a separate line item on your bill. This fee appears in the Other Charges and Credits section of the Long Distance portion of your bill.
Carrier Cost Recovery Fee*. Your bill includes a Carrier Cost Recovery Fee. This fee is $2.39/month unless you have AT&T local telephone service and are enrolled in one of the following plans: AT&T One Rate Nationwide 10 Cents, AT&T Unlimited Plus or AT&T One Rate USA. If you have AT&T local service and are enrolled in one of the above-named plans, the fee is $1.99/month.
This fee applies for each month in which you have any AT&T state-to-state and/or international charges on your bill. This fee is not a tax or charge required by the government. Your bill includes a Carrier Cost Recovery Fee. This fee is $2.39/month unless you have AT&T local telephone service and are enrolled in one of the following plans: AT&T One Rate Nationwide 10 Cents, AT&T Unlimited Plus or AT&T One Rate USA. This fee applies for each month in which you have any AT&T state-to-state and/or international charges on your bill. The Carrier Cost Recovery Fee appears as a separate line item on your bill. This fee appears in the Other Charges and Credits section of the Long Distance portion of your bill.
The Carrier Cost Recovery Fee applies for each month in which you have any AT&T state-to-state and/or international charges on your bill. For example, if you receive an AT&T bill covering three months, and for two of the three months you have AT&T state-to-state and/or international charges, you will receive two fees. This fee applies for each month in which you have any AT&T state-to-state and/or international charges on your bill. The Carrier Cost Recovery Fee appears as a separate line item on your bill. This fee appears in the Other Charges and Credits section of the Long Distance portion of your bill.
0. : A Regulatory Cost Recovery Charge of up to $1.25 or a Regulatory Programs Charge of $1.75 is assessed by AT&T and is not a tax or government-mandated charge. This charge is subject to change from time to time as the cost of compliance changes. The purpose of the charge is to defray AT&T's costs associated with payment of fees and compliance with various initiatives imposed by the government.
The regulatory cost recovery fee is charged to help cover the cost for providers to comply with Federal, state and local regulatory requirements. They, and other providers, are allowed to charge this fee (and most, if not all, of them do) even though it is not required by law. I am a Comcast customer in Alexandria, VA. On my recent bill, dated 6/7/12, Comcast provided notice that . This so-called Regulatory Recovery Fee is vague and the notice does not explain why the fee is being imposed, who the fee is being collected for, or how the fee is calculated.
The Regulatory Cost Recovery Surcharge is a non-discountable monthly charge, applied to recover amounts paid to federal, State, and local governments for regulatory costs and AireSpring’s cost of compliance. 
From HTYP, the free directory anyone can edit. The phrase regulatory recovery fee is a line item which now appears on monthly bills from many VoIP and cellular phone services. 