Kirksey Construction Cost Update-2013. Kirksey Architects released its 2013 annual construction cost update on office buildings and parking structures which is an annual poll of leading contractors to update current market conditions. This year the report has been expanded to include corporate interior construction costs
The Costs and Financial Benefits of Green Buildings The medical cost of poor air quality in Los Angeles is about $10 billion per year, of which 70% is from particulates and 30%, or $3 billion, is from health costs due to ozone. Assuming conservative, relatively high California commercial construction costs of $150/ft 2 to 250/ft 2, 91 a 2% green building premium is equivalent to $3-5/ft 2. Use of lower construction costs in these calculations would tend to increase the reported cost effectiveness of green construction.
The DWR study came to similar conclusions, finding that a 22% reduction in water use could be cost-effectively generated through conservation strategies. Projected savings by building type include: office buildings - 40%, schools - 21%, and hospitals - 22%. Assuming conservative, relatively high California commercial construction costs of $150/ft 2 to 250/ft 2, 91 a 2% green building premium is equivalent to $3-5/ft 2. Use of lower construction costs in these calculations would tend to increase the reported cost effectiveness of green construction.
In addition to the savings from O&M and lighting, the load profile with the full package of measures shows reductions in peak cooling demand as a result of high efficiency chillers and variable speed drives. The total reduction in peak demand for this building on a typical summer day is 347 kW, or 22% of the baseline. On an annual basis, the savings from the full package of measures results in a reduction in energy intensity of 22 kBtu per square foot, or 23% of the baseline. As show in Figure 2, space conditioning and lighting together account for 70% of all energy consumed in a typical office building, with an additional 20% of energy consumption used to power office equipment.
Managing energy costs in office buildings your community energy company printed on recycled paper GS1613 09/13/2010 On average, a U.S. office building spends nearly 29 percent of its operating expenses on utilities, and the majority of this expenditure goes toward electricity and natural gas. As a result, these are the best areas to target for energy savings. Quick Fixes Many office buildings can benefit from quick low-or no-cost energy-saving solutions such as turning things off, turning things down, and following a cleaning and maintenance schedule that keeps equipment running efficiently.
In a typical office building, lighting, heating, andcooling represent between 54 and 71 percent of total usedepending on climate, making those systems the best targets forenergy savings (see illustration, next page). Energy represents about 19 percent of total expenditures forthe typical office building. For the typical 50,000-square-foot office building,that’s equal to about $11,000 in savings per year! Savingstypically come from resetting existing controls to reduceHVAC waste while maintaining or even increasingcomfort levels for occupants.
In a typical office building, lighting, heating, and cooling represent between 54 and 71 percent of total use depending on climate, making those systems the best targets for energy savings.Energy represents about 19 percent of total expenditures for the typical office building. For the typical 50,000-square-foot office building, that’s equal to about $11,000 in savings per year! Savings typically come from resetting existing controls to reduce HVAC waste while maintaining or even increasing comfort levels for occupants. Commissioning usually costs between 5 and 40 cents per square foot.
Studies have shown thatcontinuously monitoring a building’s energy systems canlead to reductions of 10 to 15 percent in annual energybills. For the typical 50,000-square-foot office building,that’s equal to about $11,000 in savings per year! Savingstypically come from resetting existing controls to reduceHVAC waste while maintaining or even increasingcomfort levels for occupants. Commissioning usuallycosts between 5 and 40 cents per square foot
(continued on next page) FIGURE 1: Office buildings energy consumption by end use in the U.S. Data from the U.S. Energy Information Administration shows that cooling, lighting, and ventilation account for 62 percent of electricity use (A), and space heating dominates natural gas use at 86 percent (B). As a result, these are the best areas to target for energy savings. Quick Fixes Many office buildings can benefit from quick low-or no-cost energy-saving solutions such as turning things off, turning things down, and following a cleaning and maintenance schedule that keeps equipment running efficiently.
(Data is calculated using a 2003 U.S. Energy Information Administration survey of com-mercial buildings.) Using average commercial energy prices of $0.10 per kWh and $0.98 per hundred cubic feet, the average cost of power per ft 2 for office build-ings is approximately $1.73 for electricity and $0.31 for natural gas. As a result, these are the best areas to target for energy savings. Quick Fixes Many office buildings can benefit from quick low-or no-cost energy-saving solutions such as turning things off, turning things down, and following a cleaning and maintenance schedule that keeps equipment running efficiently.