The primary components of vascular tissue are the xylem and phloem. These two tissues transport fluid and nutrients internally. There are also two meristems associated with vascular tissue: the vascular cambium and the cork cambium. All the vascular tissues within a particular plant together constitute the vascular tissue system of that plant. The cells in vascular tissue are typically long and slender. Since the xylem and phloem function in the conduction of water, minerals, and nutrients throughout the plant, it is not surprising that their form should be similar to pipes. The vascular tissue in plants is arranged in long, discrete strands called vascular bundles. These bundles include both xylem and phloem, as well as supporting and protective cells.
Xylem and phloem tissues that differentiate from procambial tissue are called primary xylem and primary phloem. In plants with secondary growth, vascular tissue differentiates from a lateral meristem, the vascular cambium, producing secondary xylem and secondary phloem. Secondary xylem is a familiar product: wood. Xylem: The Water-Conducting Vascular Tissue. Xylem is a complex tissue composed of several different cell types. This tissue includes parenchyma cells, fibers, and two cell types specializing in water and mineral transport: tracheids and vessel members.
vascular tissue. n. 1. (Botany) tissue of higher plants consisting mainly of xylem and phloem and occurring as a continuous system throughout the plant: it conducts water, mineral salts, and synthesized food substances and provides mechanical support. vascular tissue-tissue that conducts water and nutrients through the plant body in higher plants. vascular system-the vessels and tissue that carry or circulate fluids such as blood or lymph or sap through the body of an animal or plant.
Noun. 1. vascular tissue-tissue that conducts water and nutrients through the plant body in higher plants. vascular system-the vessels and tissue that carry or circulate fluids such as blood or lymph or sap through the body of an animal or plant.
The vascular tissue system is composed of two different types of tissues: xylem and phloem. Although both xylem and phloem form a continuous tissue system throughout the plant body, the two tissues have different functions. Xylem: The Water-Conducting Vascular Tissue. Xylem is a complex tissue composed of several different cell types. This tissue includes parenchyma cells, fibers, and two cell types specializing in water and mineral transport: tracheids and vessel members.
Confidence votes 1.2K. The vascular tissue system is one of three tissue systems that make up a plant, the other two tissue systems or ground and dermal, with dermal tissue being the outer layer and the ground tissue making up most of the inside of a plant. A plant's vascular system is composed of two networks of hollow tubes, similar to our veins and arteries. Each network consists of a different type of vascular tissue that works to move different resources throughout the plant. These vascular tissues would be the tissues known as xylem and phloem.
In botany, vascular tissues include xylem and phloem. Xylem is the type of vascular tissue that moves water and dissolved nutrients from the roots to the leaves. The xylem are … one-way roads, however. No particles can move down the tree through the xylem. Phloem are the tubes in plants responsible for transporting sugars from the leaves to the roots and vice-versa. A plant's vascular system is composed of two networks of hollow tubes, similar to our veins and arteries. Each network consists of a different type of vascular tissue that works to move different resources throughout the plant. These vascular tissues would be the tissues known as xylem and phloem.
Vascular Tissue. Vascular tissue (blood and lymph). Blood and lymph represent the final form of connective tissue we will study. In the high magnification image, notice that blood consists of erythrocytes (red blood cells), leukocytes (white blood cells), and platelets. Blood is contained in blood vessels (arteries, veins, capillaries). 
Vascular tissue. vascular tissue. (botany) plant tissue that transports nutrients and water throughout a plant; as veins and arteries are to animals. The two kind of vascular tissue are xylem (used mainly for water) and phloem (used more for nutrients). Please contribute to this project, if you have more information about this term feel free to edit this page.