Report This | Share this:Salicylates allergy and Stevia sugarHi Marketa07,I would be cautious about Stevia, since it is a plant and salycilates is found in different plants. I think that you should definitely consult his doctor or allergist about this before giving it to him. I am not sure about flaxseed oil either? Hi Marketa07, 
A. See below for the amounts of salicylates in Dr Swain's 1985 Salicylates in Foods research (in mg of salicylate per 100 ml). Note that as well as salicylates, grapes contain amines and glutamates which puts wine in the very high category for troublesome food chemicals. - spice and spice extract are very high in salicylates. - soy protein and yeast extract are glutamate-containing ingredients similar to MSG. - added 'flavour' in sausages could contain salicylates, amines and/or glutamates.
Salicylate Sensitivity. A portion of the population may be sensitive to salicylates, much in the same way one may be sensitive to a food. A person with salicylate sensitivities may be able to tolerate certain foods and products that contain the compounds but not others. Meanwhile, salicylates have a cumulative effect in the body, meaning that a person may be able to tolerate a small amount but will experience symptoms after excessive exposure.
Posted on January 3, 2014 by Christine. Some people are more sensitive to salicylates than others and will block on small amounts. Like a tiny trace of real Stevia leaf in the Stevia sweetener. We know of several who have been mapped and seen the improvement once Stevia was stopped being used. If you are on the HG diet and looking for a sweetener, try Xylitol and/or Splenda. But be careful with these! Sweeteners cause your weight loss to slow down, and can have a cumulative effect on your body so that you can begin to feel sick using them without realizing it.
Raw foods, dry foods and juices may contain more salicylates than cooked food. The highest levels of salicylates are found just under the skin of certain fruits and vegetables, and in the outer leaves of vegetables. Salicylate levels decrease the riper a food gets. A person with salicylate sensitivities may be able to tolerate certain foods and products that contain the compounds but not others. Meanwhile, salicylates have a cumulative effect in the body, meaning that a person may be able to tolerate a small amount but will experience symptoms after excessive exposure.
In severe cases, a salicylate allergy can lead to anaphylaxis, a life-threatening reaction involving a severe drop in blood pressure, loss of consciousness, and organ system failure. Avoiding products that contain salicylates is the best defense against an allergic reaction. A. A. A. Salicylates are chemicals found naturally in plants and are a major ingredient in aspirin and other pain-relieving medications. They are also found in many fruits and vegetables, as well as in many common health and beauty products.
Salicylate sensitivity / intolerance. Salicylates are chemicals found naturally in many plants and are also an ingredient of aspirin and other pain-relieving medications. They are widespread in fruit and vegetables, as well as in health, beauty and household cleaning products. In severe cases, salicylate sensitivity can lead to anaphylaxis, a life-threatening reaction involving a severe drop in blood pressure, loss of consciousness, and organ system failure. Avoiding products that contain salicylates is the best prevention of a reaction.