In the case of older animals, where the dew claws attached to the leg with possibly muscle and bone, the dog will undergo general anesthesia for the removal procedure. Just as with a puppy, the veterinarian will use surgical scissors to cut the bone or bone attachment and suture the skin area.
The Dew Claw in Dogs. The dew claw is located on the front limb of most dogs, on the inner side and in most canines doesn’t touch the ground. Some canines are born with dew claws on the hind legs, or with two sets of dew claws, known as double dew claws.
Dew claws are commonly found on the inside of a dog’s front paw, and occasionally on the back paws too. They are situated higher up the paw than the rest of the claws, and don’t touch the ground. A= Claw, B= Digital Pad, C= Metacarpal Pad, D= Dew Claw, E= Carpal Pad.
A dog's dew claws are located on the inside of the legs, higher than the other claws, and rarely touch the ground. Some dogs occasionally have rear dew claws, and these have less muscle structure than the front dew claws.
Since the dog's dew claws are located higher than the other claws, people often assume they have no use. Actually, a dog may use his dew claw to hold on to objects, such as bones, to keep them steady as they are chewing on them. They might use a dew claw to scratch an itch or remove something from their teeth.
The dew claw attaches to the paw by a loose flap of skin. The person who is cutting the dog's claws should pull the dew claw away from the leg and cut the claw without cutting into the blood vessels found in the quick. If the quick is cut, the dog may suffer pain and bleeding.
In some breeds, when the dew claw touches the ground, having the dew claw gives the dog an advantage when running and performing agility exercises. However, removal of the dew claws has the potential of causing a negative impact and cause instability, especially when running. Canine’s use dew claws on a daily basis.
The answer is yes, but first, one needs to differentiate between removing dew claws, and trimming dog nails. The dew claw is actually a digit rather than just a claw, and the removal of dew claws is thus far more complex and painful than simply trimming the dog’s nails, which does not cause the dog any pain at all.