An ecozone is the broadest biogeographic division of the Earth's land surface, based on distributional patterns of terrestrial organisms. Ecozones delineate large areas of the Earth's surface within which organisms have been evolving in relative isolation over long periods of time, separated from one another by geographic features, such as oceans, broad deserts, or high mountain ranges, that constitute barriers to migration.
Introduction. Ecozones is a name given to one of the many ways to classify ecological systems. Other systems exist and the number of categories in some of them can be staggering. Ecozones are large and very generalized, having roughly the same land features, climate and organisms throughout them. Still, there are inevitably still many differences across that large an area of land. Detailing those differences is done at the ecoregion and ecodistrict levels.
The ecozones. Canada has fifteen terrestrial and five aquatic ecozones. To see the details of an ecozone, click on it on the map below or choose it from the list underneath the map. 
Ecozones are a relatively new concept allowing the study of the inter-relationships of physical and human systems. They were developed in order to study regions in Canada more accurately. Before ecozones were invented, geoscientists measured and analyzed data from: 1  political regions (provinces and territories). 2  social regions (cultural and linguistic groups). 3  physical characteristics (climate, landform or soil regions, etc.)
Ecozones vary in shape and size. The largest in Canada -- the Boreal Shield Ecozone -- is an irregularly shaped area stretching across parts of six provinces. It is bigger than the state of Alaska, the country of Mongolia, and the province of Quebec. Common sense tells us about the uniqueness of an area like the prairies, the mosaic of particular characteristics and the inherent relationships that exist in that zone. An ecozone, then -- like any ecosystem -- is an area where organisms and their physical environment endure as a system (Wiken, 1986) .
As such, ecozone designations are used to indicate general groupings of organisms based on their shared biogeography. Ecozones correspond to the floristic kingdoms of botany or zoogeographic regions of zoology. Ecozones are characterized by the evolutionary history of the organisms they contain. They are distinct from biomes, also known as major habitat types, which are divisions of the Earth's surface based on life form, or the adaptation of plants and animals to climatic, soil, and other conditions.
There are 20 major ecosystems -- ecozones -- in Canada: 15 terrestrial ecozones and 5 marine ecozones. The legend on the map arranges the ecozones according to general shared properties. For instance, all of the marine units are grouped, as are the boreal and arctic units. Common sense tells us about the uniqueness of an area like the prairies, the mosaic of particular characteristics and the inherent relationships that exist in that zone. An ecozone, then -- like any ecosystem -- is an area where organisms and their physical environment endure as a system (Wiken, 1986) .
Ecozones delineate large areas of the Earth's surface within which organisms have been evolving in relative isolation over long periods of time, separated from one another by geographic features, such as oceans, broad deserts, or high mountain ranges, that constitute barriers to migration. They are distinct from biomes, also known as major habitat types, which are divisions of the Earth's surface based on life form, or the adaptation of plants and animals to climatic, soil, and other conditions.
As such, ecozone designations are used to indicate general groupings of organisms based on their shared biogeography. Ecozones correspond to the floristic kingdoms of botany or zoogeographic regions of zoology. Ecozones are characterized by the evolutionary history of the organisms they contain. They are distinct from biomes, also known as major habitat types, which are divisions of the Earth's surface based on life form, or the adaptation of animals, fungi, micro-organisms and plants to climatic, soil, and other conditions. Ecozones delineate large areas of the Earth's surface within which organisms have been evolving in relative isolation over long periods of time, separated from one another by geographic features, such as oceans, broad deserts, or high mountain ranges, that constitute barriers to migration.