The human body may be conceptually divided into two major fluid compartments: the intracellular compartment and the extracellular compartment. The intracellular compartment is the space within the organism's cells; it is separated from the extracellular compartment by cell membrane. The third extracellular compartment, the transcellular, consists of those spaces in the body where fluid does not normally collect in larger amounts, or where any significant fluid collection is physiologically nonfunctional.
The fluid compartment called the blood volume is interesting in that it is a composite compartment containing ECF (plasma) and ICF (red cell water). The fluid of bone & dense connective tissue is significant because it contains about 15% of the total body water. Neonates contain more water then adults: 75-80% water with proportionately more extracellular fluid (ECF) then adults. At birth, the amount of interstitial fluid is proportionally three times larger than in an adult. By the age of 12 months, this has decreased to 60% which is the adult value. Total body water as a percentage of total body weight decreases progressively with increasing age
Blood plasma: 1/3rd of ECF. Transcellular fluid: Often not calculated as a fraction of the extracellular fluid, but it is about 2.5% of TBW. Transcellular fluids are ECF that are contained in specific anatomical areas of the body, within epithelial lined spaces. Blood is made up of blood cells and blood plasma. TBV = 8% x Body Weight (kg). Remember, we can calculate volume from mass without a problem because that’s the beauty of the metric system (1.0kg water = 1.0L water). So our reference person has 0.08 x 70kg = 5.6kg = 5.6L of blood.
Body fluid, bodily fluids or biofluids are liquids originating from inside the bodies of living people. They include fluids that are excreted or secreted from the body as well as body water that normally is not. The dominating content of body fluids is body water. Methods of sampling of body fluids include: 1  Blood sampling for any blood test, in turn including: 2  Arterial blood sampling, such as radial artery puncture. 3  Venous blood sampling, also called venipuncture.
by Asa Rhadon. Semen-the primary male sexual fluid, which like blood is composed of both cellular and non-cellular material. Though blood consists of numerous differentiated cells floating in a plasma, the only cells swimming in seminal plasma are sperm. 
Approximately 60-65% of body water is contained within the cells (in intracellular fluid) with the other 35-40% of body water contained outside the cells (in extracellular fluid). This fluid component outside of the cells includes the fluid between the cells (interstitial fluid), lymph and blood. Methods of sampling of body fluids include: 1  Blood sampling for any blood test, in turn including: 2  Arterial blood sampling, such as radial artery puncture. 3  Venous blood sampling, also called venipuncture.
Many times when there is a serious medical case, we see the doctors advising intravenous fluids to be given. Why? It’s a part of fluid therapy. The human body consists of around 55 to 60 % of water, a newborn baby has water content of around 95% whereas an obese person has water content of 40%. 
The total volume of body fluids should be about 60% of the body weight, and it should be distributed so that one-third is extracellular fluid and two-thirds intracellular fluid. 1. a liquid or gas; any liquid of the body. 2. composed of molecules which freely change their relative positions without separation of the mass. allantoic fluid. the fluid contained within the allantois. amniotic fluid. the fluid within the amnion that bathes the developing fetus and protects it from mechanical injury.