A subtype of nutrient agar, this is the general medium for microbiology studies and may be used for routine cultivation of not particularly fastidious microorganisms. Also, does not preferentially grow one kind of bacteria over another.
Bacteriological media come an a wide range of types. Nutrient Agar is a complex medium because it contains ingredients with contain unknown amounts or types of nutrients. Nutrient Agar contains Beef Extract, Peptone and Agar in water. Beef extract is the commercially prepared dehydrated form of autolysed beef and is supplied in the form of a paste.
Nutrient agar is a general-purpose, nutrient medium used for the cultivation of microbes. It is frequently used for isolation and purification of cultures. As we are using it here, it can also be used as a means for producing the bacterial lawns needed for antibiotic sensitivity tests.
Nutrient agar consists of heat-stable digestive products of proteins (called peptones) and beef extract. Both of these provide amino acids, minerals, and other nutrients used by a wide variety of bacteria for growth. In addition, it contains agar as a solidifying agent.
PREPARATION OF NUTRIENT AGAR. Bacteriological media come an a wide range of types. Nutrient Agar is a complex medium because it contains ingredients with contain unknown amounts or types of nutrients. Nutrient Agar contains Beef Extract, Peptone and Agar in water. Beef extract is the commercially prepared dehydrated form of autolysed beef and is supplied in the form of a paste.
Nutrient agar medium contains the following ingredients: peptone, meat extract, yeast extract, NaCl and agar. Nutrient agar doesn't contain any inhibitory substance for bacteria, therefore, it is not considered selective and instead it is called all-purpose medium.
Nutrient Agar is a general purpose, nutrient medium used for the cultivation of microbes supporting growth of a wide range of non-fastidious organisms. Nutrient agar is popular because it can grow a variety of types of bacteria and fungi, and contains many nutrients needed for the bacterial growth.
DIFFERENT TYPES OF AGAR Mac Conkey‘s Agar plate MacConkey (also McConkey) agar is a culture medium designed to grow Gram-negative bacteria and stain them for lactose fermentation.