77 Followers. A. Albumin is an important protein made by the liver and released continuously into the blood. One of albumin’s main functions is to bind with other substances in the blood to help them get where they need to go. 
Human serum albumin is the version of serum albumin found in human blood. It is the most abundant protein in human blood plasma; it constitutes about half of serum protein. It is produced in the liver. It is soluble and monomeric. The product, proalbumin, is in turn cleaved in the Golgi vesicles to produce the secreted albumin. The reference range for albumin concentrations in serum is approximately 35 - 50 g/L (3.5 - 5.0 g/dL). It has a serum half-life of approximately 20 days. It has a molecular mass of 66.5 kDa. The gene for albumin is located on chromosome 4 and mutations in this gene can result in anomalous proteins
Albumin is a protein made by the liver. It makes up about 60% of the total protein in the blood and plays many roles. This test measures the level of albumin in the blood. Levels of albumin may decrease, to a greater or lesser degree, when conditions interfere with its production, increase protein breakdown, increase protein loss, and/or expand plasma volume (diluting the blood). Some of these conditions include: 1  Acute liver disease, cirrhosis. 2  Nephrotic syndrome due to kidney disease
Albumin (Human) 5% is a clear, slightly viscous liquid; it is almost colorless or slightly yellow or green. Albumin (Human) 5% is heated at 60 + 0.5C for 10-1 1 hours. No positive assertion can be made, however, that this procedure completely destroys the causative agents of viral hepatitis. There are no known cases of viral hepatitis which have resulted from the administration of Albumin (Human) 5%. CONTRAINDICATIONS Hypersensitivity to albumin preparations or to any of the excipients. Albumin should be used with caution in conditions where hypervolemia and its consequences or hemodilution could represent a special risk for the patient.
Albumin is a protein produced by the liver. It is most abundant in human plasma. Normally it constitutes about 55% of all plasma proteins. Albumin performs multiple functions, including transport of many small molecules in the blood, such as bilirubin, calcium, and magnesium. 
Albumins are simple water-soluble proteins found in animal fluids and tissues and to a lesser extent plants. Many molecules are unstable or insoluble when they exist in non-complexed forms. In vitro, albumin is used to bind, sequester and stabilize a range of important small molecules and proteins. 
Main article: Serum albumin. Serum albumin is the most abundant blood plasma protein and is produced in the liver and forms a large proportion of all plasma protein. The human version is human serum albumin, and it normally constitutes about 50% of human plasma protein. (March 2009). The albumins (formed from Latin: albumen (egg) white; dried egg white) are a family of globular proteins, the most common of which are the serum albumins. All the proteins of the albumin family are water-soluble, moderately soluble in concentrated salt solutions, and experience heat denaturation.