Barbed tape or razor wire is a mesh of metal strips with sharp edges whose purpose is to prevent passage by humans. The term razor wire, through long usage, has generally been used to describe barbed tape products. While razor wire is much sharper than the standard barbed wire, it is named after its appearance, but is not actually razor sharp. However, the points are very sharp and made to rip and grab onto clothing and flesh.
The first patent in the United States for barbed wire was issued in 1867 to Lucien B. Smith of Kent, Ohio, who is regarded as the inventor. Joseph F. Glidden of DeKalb, Illinois, received a patent for the modern invention in 1874 after he made his own modifications to previous versions. The Big Four in barbed wire were Joseph Glidden, Jacob Haish, Charles Francis Washburn, and Isaac L. Ellwood. Glidden, a farmer in 1873 and the first of the Big Four, is often credited for designing a successful sturdy barbed wire product, but he let others popularize it for him.
It was also used in the wars as weapons. Barbed Wire is a kind of modern security fencing materials fabricated with high-tensile wire. Barbed Wire can be installed to achieve the result of frightening and stopping. to the aggressive perimeter intruders, with piecing and cutting razor blades mounted at the top of the wall,
Applications: Razor wire fencing is widely used in government agencies, prisons, and military areas, etc. Especially in prisons, the unique structure of sharp blades. It often can be used with barbed wire together installed on the top of chain link fence and palisade fence for high security. Galvanized razor wire coil fence with barbed wire fence through it, installed on palisade fence. Razor barbed wire-chain link fence used as sports fence. If you need to consult the price, please contact the business department by e-mail: When you contact us, please provide your detail requirements.
The Development of Barbed Wire Prior to 1863, several individuals created forms of fencing that could be considered as barbed wire. None of these creations ever reached the mass market. In 1863 by Michael Kelly developed a type of fence with points affixed to twisted strands of wire.
Containment. One of the main reasons for having a barbed wire fence is containment. Fences can be used in this way in both a human and non-human capacity. Prisons commonly run barbed wire fencing known as razor wire along prison walls. If prisoners try to escape, they run the risk of injury because of the sharp points on the wiring. Barbed wire is also used to contain animals on farms.
Barbed wire, also known as barb wire, less often bob wire or, in the southeastern United States, bobbed wire, is a type of steel fencing wire constructed with sharp edges or points arranged at intervals along the strand(s). The Osage orange later became a supplier of the wood used in making barb wire fence posts. ) When wire fences became widely available in the United States in the late 19th century, they made it affordable to fence much larger areas than before. They made intensive animal husbandry practical on a much larger scale.
Razor wire fence used with barbed wire together for high security fencing. Razor barbed wire fence is mainly used in the key project, which and razor wire concertina are the majority of our products. Razor barbed wire fence is general made of stainless steel blade or galvanized steel blade. Galvanized razor wire coil fence with barbed wire fence through it, installed on palisade fence. Razor barbed wire-chain link fence used as sports fence. If you need to consult the price, please contact the business department by e-mail: When you contact us, please provide your detail requirements.
A close-up view of a barbed wire. Roll of modern agricultural barbed wire. Barbed wire, also known as barb wire less often, bob wire (or, in the southeastern United States, bobbed wire), is a type of steel fencing wire constructed with sharp edges or points arranged at intervals along the strand(s). The Big Four in barbed wire were Joseph Glidden, Jacob Haish, Charles Francis Washburn, and Isaac L. Ellwood. Glidden, a farmer in 1873 and the first of the Big Four, is often credited for designing a successful sturdy barbed wire product, but he let others popularize it for him.
A barbed wire fence commonly has a number of uses in agriculture but it can also be used for other reasons. Barbed wire is formed simply by twisting hard pieces of wire together to form points at various places. Fences can be used in this way in both a human and non-human capacity. Prisons commonly run barbed wire fencing known as razor wire along prison walls. If prisoners try to escape, they run the risk of injury because of the sharp points on the wiring. Barbed wire is also used to contain animals on farms.