a quickie summary is that many posts say that the generic topamax has not worked as well for migraine sufferers as the brand-name topamax. i have been taking the generic topamax and have had no migraines since i started taking it, but i have no reason not to believe other people's accts in this regard. Report This | Share this:Generic TopAMAXGeneric Topamax is what my insurance will pay for, my co-pay is $35. I started acupuncture treatments in early June; the pain level & duration of my migraines & other headaches decreased dramatically.
Generic Topamax: An Overview. Topamax ® (topiramate) is a prescription medicine used for the treatment of epilepsy and for migraine prevention. Brand-name Topamax is made by Ortho-McNeil Neurologics. However, the first patent for this medication has expired, and generic versions of Topamax tablets and capsules are now available. An AB rating means that the FDA has determined that a generic medication is equivalent to a brand-name medication. All of the generic topiramate versions currently available have an AB rating, meaning they should be equivalent to Topamax.
Generic Name: Topiramate. Generic for Topamax* (Topiramate) is an antiepileptic drug prescribed to prevent and control seizures (epilepsy). This seizure medication, an anticonvulsant, is also used to prevent migraine headaches. This medicine may also be used to treat other conditions as determined by your doctor. If your physician has instructed or directed you to take Generic for Topamax* medication in a regular schedule and you have missed a dose of this medicine, take it as soon as you remember. However, if it is almost time for your next dose, then skip the missed dose and go back to your regular dosing schedule.
TOPAMAX® (topiramate) Tablets are available as 25 mg, 50 mg, 100 mg, and 200 mg round tablets for oral administration. TOPAMAX® (topiramate capsules) Sprinkle Capsules are available as 15 mg and 25 mg sprinkle capsules for oral administration as whole capsules or opened and sprinkled onto soft food. Topiramate is a white crystalline powder with a bitter taste. Topiramate is most soluble in alkaline solutions containing sodium hydroxide or sodium phosphate and having a pH of 9 to 10. It is freely soluble in acetone, chloroform, dimethylsulfoxide, and ethanol. The solubility in water is 9.8 mg/mL. 
Topiramate is a seizure medication, also called an anticonvulsant. Topiramate is used alone or in combination with other medications to treat seizures in adults and children who are at least 2 years old. Topiramate is also used to prevent migraine headaches in adults. Topiramate will only prevent migraine headaches or reduce the number of attacks. It will not treat a headache that has already begun. Topiramate may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide.