The structure of RNA nucleotides is very similar to that of DNA nucleotides, with the main difference being that the ribose sugar backbone in RNA has a hydroxyl (-OH) group that DNA does not. This gives DNA its name: DNA stands for. 
Nucleic acids, which include DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid) and RNA (ribonucleic acid), are made from monomers known as nucleotides. Each nucleotide has three components: a 5-carbon sugar, a phosphate group, and a nitrogenous base. If the sugar is deoxyribose, the polymer is DNA. If the sugar is ribose, the polymer is RNA. When sugar and a nitrogenous base get combined they form a nucleotide. Nucleotides are also known as phosphate nucleotides.
Like DNA, RNA is composed of its phosphate group, five-carbon sugar (the less stable ribose), and four nitrogen-containing nucleobases: adenine, uracil (not thymine), guanine, and cytosine. RNA folding in on itself into a hairpin loop. In both molecules, the nucleobases are attached to their sugar-phosphate backbone. Like DNA, RNA is composed of its phosphate group, five-carbon sugar (the less stable ribose), and four nitrogen-containing nucleobases: adenine, uracil (not thymine), guanine, and cytosine. Base Pairing. Adenine links to thymine (A-T) and cytosine links to guanine (C-G).
1 DNA contains the sugar deoxyribose, while RNA contains the sugar ribose. 2  The only difference between ribose and deoxyribose is that ribose has one more-OH group than deoxyribose, which has-H attached to the second (2') carbon in the ring. Composition of Bases and Sugars. deoxyribose sugar. phosphate backbone. adenine, guanine, cytosine, thymine bases. ribose sugar. phosphate backbone. adenine, guanine, cytosine, uracil bases. Propagation. DNA is self-replicating. RNA is synthesized from DNA on an as-needed basis.
While the sugar present in a RNA molecule is ribose, the sugar present in a molecule of DNA is deoxyribose. Deoxyribose is the same as ribose, except that the former has one more OH. DNA does not usually exist as a single molecule, but instead as a tightly-associated pair of molecules. One of the major differences between DNA and RNA is the sugar, with 2-deoxyribose being replaced by the alternative pentose sugar ribose in RNA. The four bases found in DNA are adenine (abbreviated A), cytosine (C), guanine (G) and thymine (T).
The sugar-phosphate backbone forms the structural framework of nucleic acids, including DNA and RNA. This backbone is composed of alternating sugar and phosphate groups, and defines directionality of the molecule. DNA and RNA are composed of nucleotides that are linked to one another in a chain by chemical bonds, called ester bonds, between the sugar base of one nucleotide and the phosphate group of the adjacent nucleotide. The sugar is the 3' end, and the phosphate is the 5' end of each nucleiotide. The phosphate group attached to the 5' carbon of the sugar on one nucleotide forms an ester bond with the free hydroxyl on the 3' carbon of the next nucleotid
Exploring a DNA chain The sugars in the backbone The backbone of DNA is based on a repeated pattern of a sugar group and a phosphate group. The full name of DNA, deoxyribonucleic acid, gives you the name of the sugar present-deoxyribose. Deoxyribose is a modified form of another sugar called ribose. I'm going to give you the structure of that first, because you will need it later anyway. Ribose is the sugar in the backbone of RNA, ribonucleic acid.
The sugar in RNA is ribose, whereas the sugar in DNA is deoxyribose. The only difference between the two is that in deoxyribose, there is an oxygen missing from the 2' carbon … (there is a H there instead of an OH). This makes DNA more stable/less reactive than RNA. So DNA and RNA are to different types of nucleic acids DNA contains Deoxyribose (that's the sugar) and RNA contains ribose (that's the sugar). 4 people found this useful. Edit.