Arguably the largest peninsula in Europe, the Scandinavian Peninsula is approximately 1,850 kilometres (1,150 mi) long with a width varying approximately from 370 to 805 kilometres (230 to 500 miles). The Scandinavian mountain range generally defines the border between Norway and Sweden. These languages are Swedish, Danish, Norwegian, Faroese and Icelandic, with the latter two being closest to Old Norse. The Scandinavian Peninsula is the largest peninsula of Europe, larger than the Balkan, the Iberian and the Italian peninsulas.
Scandinavia is a historical and cultural-linguistic region in Northern Europe characterized by a common ethno-cultural North Germanic heritage and related languages. It comprises the three kingdoms of Denmark, Norway, and Sweden. While the term Scandinavia is commonly used for Denmark, Norway and Sweden, the term the Nordic countries is used unambiguously for Denmark, Norway, Sweden, Finland, and Iceland, including their associated territories (Greenland, the Faroe Islands, and the Åland åland). islands
Sweden is also located in Northern Europe on the Scandinavian Peninsula. It is bordered to the west by Norway and Finland to the east and it is along the Baltic Sea and the Gulf of Bothnia. Geographically, the Scandinavian Peninsula is the largest peninsula in Europe and it extends from above the Arctic Circle at 66.5°N latitude south to the North and Baltic Seas. The following is a list of the five countries comprising Scandinavia and a little bit of information about each of them.
The Scandinavian Peninsula is occupied by Norway, Sweden, and some of northern Finland. Please note that the Scandinavian Peninsula differs from Scandinavia itself. Scandinavi … a also contains Denmark, and occasionally the rest of Finland, Iceland, the Faroe Islands and Greenland. 14 people found this useful. ^world geography we all hate it, and im on this question well..... the speed of wind makes climate zones average at a 0 to negative 10.
Sometimes in foreign usage, the term Scandinavia also includes Iceland, the Faroe Islands, and Finland, on account of their historical association with the Scandinavian countries and the Scandinavian peoples and languages. The southern and by far most populous regions of Scandinavia have a temperate climate. While the term Scandinavia is commonly used for Denmark, Norway and Sweden, the term the Nordic countries is used unambiguously for Denmark, Norway, Sweden, Finland, and Iceland, including their associated territories (Greenland, the Faroe Islands, and the Åland åland). islands
Where is Scandinavia: Scandinavia is a region in northern Europe. The Scandinavian Peninsula is the largest peninsula in Europe and it extends from above the Arctic Circle to the North and Baltic Seas. Scandinavia is a historical and geographical region covering much of Northern Europe. In the past, Scandinavia has been defined as the three kingdoms that historically shared the Scandinavian Peninsula. Today, most define Scandinavia as a region which includes: 1  Denmark. 2  Norway. 3  Sweden. 4  Finland and Iceland are generally included. 5  Greenland, however, is rare
1 SCANDINAVIA AND ICELAND-Scandinavia, the most northerly region in Europe, is made up of Norway, Sweden, Denmark, and Finland. 2  Together with the volcanic island of Iceland, th. 3  Scandinavia-Scandinavia Norway, Sweden, Denmark, and Iceland. Scandinavia (skănˌdĭnāˈvēə) [ key ], region of N Europe. It consists of the kingdoms of Sweden, Norway, and Denmark; Finland and Iceland are usually considered part of Scandinavia.
The Scandinavian Peninsula is a peninsula in Northern Europe. It includes the countries of Norway and Sweden as well as parts of Finland. ^world geography we all hate it, and im on this question well..... the speed of wind makes climate zones average at a 0 to negative 10.
Norway is a country located in Northern Europe on the western and northern part of the Scandinavian Peninsula, bordering the North Sea in southwest and the Skagerrak inlet to the south, the North Atlantic Ocean (Norwegian Sea) in the west and the Barents Sea to the northeast. 
Scandinavia is a large region of Northern Europe that is mainly made up of the Scandinavian Peninsula. As such, it includes the countries of Norway and Sweden. In addition, Denmark, Finland and Iceland are also included in Scandinavia. Geographically, the Scandinavian Peninsula is the largest peninsula in Europe and it extends from above the Arctic Circle at 66.5°N latitude south to the North and Baltic Seas. The following is a list of the five countries comprising Scandinavia and a little bit of information about each of them.