To get started, we need to have the fitbit app installed onto our iPhone and have the bluetooth turned on. You can also take this time to plug in the Charge into a USB port to get a full charge. Open the app and for the first time, you will be greeted with the setup wizard. 
Trying to pair my Flex Fitbit and get error message. Trying to pair my Flex Fitbit with Droid Razr Maxx and keep getting message Couldn't pair with Flex because of an incorrect PIN or passkey.. I don't know how to resolve this. The fit bit pairs and syncs with my computer but not my phone. 
Pairing to a computer Once Fitbit Connect is installed on your computer, you can pair your One to your Fitbit account. This will allow you to sync your data and manage your tracker’s device settings. Pairing to a Mac 1. If you already have the Fitbit App installed, make sure that you have the latest version. 2. Plug your charging cable into a USB port and insert your tracker into the charging cable. 3. Enable Bluetooth on your mobile device and within the Fitbit app. 4. Make sure your mobile device is connected to the Internet.
1 On your iOS device, tap and find your device in the list. 2  If your device says Not Connected, tap the name of your accessory to attempt to connect it. 3  Tap and turn Bluetooth off and then on again. 4  Make sure that your Bluetooth accessory is turned on and fully charged or connected to power. 1 Most Bluetooth accessories have a range of approximately 30 feet. 2  On your iOS device, tap and find your device in the list. 3
http://support.apple.com/kb/TS4562. 1  Check that you are in range of the Bluetooth accessory with which you are trying to pair your iPhone, iPad, or iPod touch. 2  Most Bluetooth accessories have a range of approximately 30 feet. 3  On your iOS device, tap and find your device in the list. 1 Most Bluetooth accessories have a range of approximately 30 feet. 2  On your iOS device, tap and find your device in the list. 3  If your device says Not Connected, tap the name of your accessory to attempt to connect it.
NOTE: If your device is not compatible, you can still use the Fitbit App to view your data and track your progress. Before you begin Before you can setup your One on a mobile device, do the following: 1. Download and install the Fitbit App from the App Store (iOS) or Google Play Store (Android). If you already have the Fitbit App installed, make sure that you have the latest version. 2. Plug your charging cable into a USB port and insert your tracker into the charging cable. 3. Enable Bluetooth on your mobile device and within the Fitbit app. 4. Make sure your mobile device is connected to the Internet.
1 If your device says Not Connected, tap the name of your accessory to attempt to connect it. 2  Tap and turn Bluetooth off and then on again. 3  Make sure that your Bluetooth accessory is turned on and fully charged or connected to power. 4  Make sure that your Bluetooth accessory is in pairing mode. 5  1. 6  Restart your iOS device. 1 Most Bluetooth accessories have a range of approximately 30 feet. 2  On your iOS device, tap and find your device in the list. 3 
that's everywhere you want it. On the go or at your desk, your Fitbit dashboard is with you all the time. See all your achievement badges, analyze your charts and graphs with ease, and get instant access to the Fitbit community-all in one place. It's fun and free (and you don't even need a tracker to use it). GET STARTED
that's everywhere you want it. On the go or at your desk, your Fitbit dashboard is with you all the time. See all your achievement badges, analyze your charts and graphs with ease, and get instant access to the Fitbit community-all in one place. It's fun and free (and you don't even need a tracker to use it). GET STARTED.
If your Android device’s screen is off, your One will not sync in the background until you wake your Android device from sleep. Force Sync You can also Force Sync your tracker through the Devices menu to get the latest data synced. To Force Sync your One tracker: 1. Open the Fitbit App. If you already have the Fitbit App installed, make sure that you have the latest version. 2. Plug your charging cable into a USB port and insert your tracker into the charging cable. 3. Enable Bluetooth on your mobile device and within the Fitbit app. 4. Make sure your mobile device is connected to the Internet.