Devices. Tizen is an open source, standards-based software platform for multiple device categories, including smartphones, tablets, netbooks, in-vehicle infotainment devices, smart TVs, and more. 
Tizen has been in the works since early 2012 but has garnered attention recently thanks to Samsung’s involvement and interest in the platform. Reports have suggested that Korean electronics giant will launch a flagship smartphone based on Tizen in the near future, but the OS is still largely unknown to the masses. The Tizen OS is a project within the Linux Foundation and is overseen by a Technical Steering Group that consists of Intel and Samsung. The OS came to be when Intel joined Samsung in 2011 after both had abandoned their respective previous projects, MeeGo and LiMo.
Based on Linux. Tizen is an open source operating system based on the Linux kernel and WebKit runtime. This means that users can obtain the source code that Tizen is based on, allowing smartphone owners to tinker with and alter a device’s software. The Tizen OS is a project within the Linux Foundation and is overseen by a Technical Steering Group that consists of Intel and Samsung. The OS came to be when Intel joined Samsung in 2011 after both had abandoned their respective previous projects, MeeGo and LiMo.
Tizen is an open source operating system built on the Linux kernel and offered in versions for multiple mobile and embedded platforms, including smartphones, tablets, wearable computers, netbooks, smart TVs and in-vehicle infotainment (IVI) systems. 
Members of the Tizen Association represent major sectors of the mobility industry, from numerous areas of the world. Current members include telecommunications network operators and electronics manufacturers: Fujitsu, Huawei, Intel, KT, NEC Casio, NTT DoCoMo, Orange, Panasonic, Samsung, SK Telecom, Sprint and Vodafone. Tizen is a project within the Linux Foundation and is governed by a Technical Steering Group (TSG) composed of Samsung and Intel among others.
Tizen is a new(ish) operating system... Tizen is a Linux-based open-source operating system (kind of like Android!) that wants to be the brains of every gadget you own. It's existed since 2012, but is finally starting to show up on actual gadgets you can buy. This year, Samsung will sell (at least) two phones and a watch that don't run Android. Instead, they'll run something called Tizen. That's a major departure for such an important player in the smartphone game.
The Tizen Association was formed to guide the industry role of Tizen, including requirements gathering, identifying and facilitating service models, and overall industry marketing and education. Tizen is a project within the Linux Foundation and is governed by a Technical Steering Group (TSG) composed of Samsung and Intel among others.
Samsung Tizen is Samsung's implementation of Tizen, an open source mobile operating system. Download this Expert Guide: MDM Essentials and Practical Applications. 
Tizen (/ˈtaɪzɛn/) is an operating system based on the Linux kernel and the GNU C Library implementing the Linux API. Tizen is a project within the Linux Foundation and is governed by a Technical Steering Group (TSG) composed of Samsung and Intel among others.
...and is coming to a phone near you. There's no actual Tizen phone yet, but there will be soon; Samsung is planning to sell two versions this year. Tizen won't be the operating system for Samsung's next flagship phone or anything; it's not quite ready yet. But if it finds even an ounce of acceptance, you'll be sure to see more and more of them. Maybe even, before too long, on a device you'll actually want to own. This year, Samsung will sell (at least) two phones and a watch that don't run Android. Instead, they'll run something called Tizen. That's a major departure for such an important player in the smartphone game.