The hazard: Glutaraldehyde is a toxic chemical that is used for cold sterilization of medical and dental equipment. It is in Cidex and other products. Glutaraldehyde can cause severe irritation of the eyes, nose, throat, lungs, nausea, headaches, drowsiness, and dizziness. 1 Avoid using the product (substitution): Where possible, the use of glutaraldehyde should be avoided by using less toxic chemicals or other processes for sterilization. 2  Use equipment to avoid exposure (engineering controls): Glutaraldehyde should be used in a contained process along with local exhaust ventilation.
1 Glutaraldehyde. 2  Glutaraldehyde is a high-level disinfectant most frequently used as a disinfectant for heat-sensitive equipment such as dialysis instruments, surgical instruments, suction bottles, bronchoscopes, endoscopes, and ear, nose, and throat instruments. 1
Breathing glutaraldehyde can irritate the nose, throat, and respiratory tract, causing coughing and wheezing. Exposure to glutaraldehyde can cause nausea, headaches, drowsiness, and dizziness. Long-term (chronic) effects: Glutaraldehyde is a sensitizer. 1 Avoid using the product (substitution): Where possible, the use of glutaraldehyde should be avoided by using less toxic chemicals or other processes for sterilization. 2  Use equipment to avoid exposure (engineering controls): Glutaraldehyde should be used in a contained process along with local exhaust ventilation.
Glutaral, also called glutaraldehyde, occurs as a colorless liquid in its pure form. In cosmetics and personal care products, Glutaral is used in the formulation of bath products, cleansing products, hair conditioners, wave sets and other hair products. Glutaraldehyde is listed as a preservative in the Cosmetics Directive of the European Union (see Annex VI) and may be used at a maximum concentration of 0.1%. When concentrations exceed 0.05%, the product must be labeled contains Glutaraldhyde..
1 Glutaraldehyde is probably the most commonly used EM fixative and is normally supplied at concentrations of 25 or 50% and used at concentrations of 0.5-2%. 2  The molecular weight of glutaraldehyde is 100.12 g/mol and at a 1% concentration will have a molarity of 0.1 mols/litre. 1 Formaldehyde is a common fixative for light microscopy and is often used on its own. 2  However, for EM it often doesn't provide enough stability for all of the sample preparation steps and ultrastructure can be poor. 3  For EM it is routinely used in combination with glutaraldehyde*
A pungent colorless oily liquid, glutaraldehyde is used to sterilise medical and dental equipment. It is also used for industrial water treatment and as a preservative. It is mainly available as an aqueous solution, and in these solutions the aldehyde groups are hydrated. Glutaraldehyde is produced industrially by the oxidation of cyclopentene and by the Diels-Alder reaction of acrolein and methyl vinyl ether followed by hydrolysis. Like other dialdehydes (e.g., glyoxal), it does not exist as the dialdehyde but as the hydrate. These hydrates adopt several equilibrating species.
As well as formaldehyde and glutaraldehyde, discussed previously, a number of other reagents have been used for fixation, sometimes in simple solution but often combined with other agents in the form of compound fixatives. The more important of these are discussed here in Part 3 of the Fixation and Fixatives series. 
A glutaraldehyde solution of 0.1% to 1.0% concentration may be used for system disinfection and as a preservative for long term storage. It is a sterilant, killing endospores in addition to many microorganisms and viruses. Glutaraldehyde is produced industrially by the oxidation of cyclopentene and by the Diels-Alder reaction of acrolein and methyl vinyl ether followed by hydrolysis. Like other dialdehydes (e.g., glyoxal), it does not exist as the dialdehyde but as the hydrate. These hydrates adopt several equilibrating species.
Glutaraldehyde is a colorless liquid used to sterilize medical and dental equipment. It is in products including Cidex, Glutarex, and Sonacide. Glutaraldehyde is also used in leather tanning and water treatment, and as a chemical preservative. 1 Avoid using the product (substitution): Where possible, the use of glutaraldehyde should be avoided by using less toxic chemicals or other processes for sterilization. 2  Use equipment to avoid exposure (engineering controls): Glutaraldehyde should be used in a contained process along with local exhaust ventilation.