These types of skin cancer start in the basal cells or squamous cells of the skin, which is how they get their names. These cells are found in the outer layer of the skin. Most basal and squamous cell cancers develop on sun-exposed areas of the skin, like the face, ears, neck, lips, and the backs of the hands. Skin cancer is the most common of all cancers. About 3.5 million cases of basal and squamous cell skin cancer are diagnosed in this country each year.
A Honor Society of Nursing (STTI) answered. Squamous cell carcinoma begins in the squamous cells, or keratinocytes, that make up your top layer of skin. When the DNA that controls the cells' growth is damaged, it causes an overgrowth and buildup of skin cells. 
Cancer is the uncontrolled growth of abnormal cells in the body. In the body, there are trillions of cells with various functions. These cells grow and divide to help the body function properly. Cells die when they become old or damaged, and new cells replace them. These extra cells may form a mass of tissue, called a tumor. Some cancers, such as leukemia, do not form tumors. There are five main categories of cancer: 1  Carcinomas begin in the skin or tissues that line the internal organs. 2  Sarcomas develop in the bone, cartilage, fat, muscle or other connective tissues.
About Melanoma of the Skin. Melanoma is a disease in which malignant (cancer) cells form in melanocytes (cells that color the skin). The skin is the body's largest organ. It protects against heat, sunlight, injury, and infection. Skin also helps control body temperature and stores water, fat, and vitamin D. Skin cancer begins in the epidermis, which is made up of three kinds of cells 1  : Squamous cells: Thin, flat cells that form the top layer of the epidermis. 2  Basal cells: Round cells under the squamous cells. 3  Melanocytes: Cells that make melanin and are found in the lower part
The most common types are basal cell carcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma, which are nonmelanoma skin cancers. Nonmelanoma skin cancers rarely spread to other parts of the body. Melanoma is the rarest form of skin cancer. It is more likely to invade nearby tissues and spread to other parts of the body. Squamous cell carcinoma occurs on areas of the skin that have been in the sun, such as the ears, lower lip, and the back of the hands. Squamous cell carcinoma may also appear on areas of the skin that have been burned or exposed to chemicals or radiation. Often this cancer appears as a firm red bump.
1 Skin cancer is a disease in which malignant (cancer) cells form in the tissues of the skin. 2  There are different types of cancer that start in the skin. 3  Skin color and being exposed to sunlight can increase the risk of nonmelanoma skin cancer and actinic keratosis. Squamous cell carcinoma occurs on areas of the skin that have been in the sun, such as the ears, lower lip, and the back of the hands. Squamous cell carcinoma may also appear on areas of the skin that have been burned or exposed to chemicals or radiation. Often this cancer appears as a firm red bump.
A Honor Society of Nursing (STTI) answered. Skin cancer begins in the cells that make up the epidermis -- the top layer of skin. When the DNA that controls the cells' growth is damaged, it causes an overgrowth and buildup of skin cells. Eventually, this skin cell buildup forms a tumor, which results in the symptoms you see, such as irregular spots, red bumps, or scaly patches on your skin. Skin cancer most commonly affects areas of skin that are exposed to the sun but may develop almost anywhere on the body, including underneath fingernails and in the genital area. If left untreated, skin cancer can grow deep into the skin and spread through the rest of the body, causing serious complications.
The skin is the largest organ in the body and, as such, is vulnerable to damage as a result of cancer treatments. Chemotherapy damages rapidly dividing cells, a hallmark trait of cancer cells. In the process, healthy cells that are also rapidly dividing—such as skin cells—are also damaged. 
Skin and others: Skin cancer came from skin cells. Some of the most common skin cancers are basal cell carcinoma, squamous cell carcinoma, melanoma, lymphoma involving the skin... However, by nature, cancer, including skin cancer can travel to any other organs in the body such as brain, lungs, liver, bone, lymph nodes, other part of the skin, ect...This is more common with meolanoma and rare with basal or squamous.