Spring Valley is an unincorporated town and census-designated place and part of Las Vegas Township in Clark County, Nevada, United States, located 2 miles (3 km) west of the Las Vegas Strip. The population was 178,395 at the 2010 census. Spring Valley was formed in May, 1981. The northern part of Spring Valley includes areas of rural-estate zoning, with large parcels of land on blocks of 1⁄64 square mile (40,000 m 2). The southern part of Spring Valley is quickly developing – fifteen years ago, very little south of Tropicana Avenue was developed within Spring Valley.
Spring Valley, incorporated on July 9, 1902, is a village in the towns of Ramapo and Clarkstown in Rockland County, New York, United States. The village is next to the New York State Thruway (Interstate 87) and is served by a New Jersey Transit train station at the terminus of the Pascack Valley Line. Spring Valley is 22 miles (35 km) north of Manhattan and 5 miles (8 km) north of the New Jersey border.
Las Vegas, NV. quality of life. Spring Valley, at one time was a lovely small place to live, we were in the upper elevation of the valley with some distance between us and the rest of Las Vegas.... (read more). Las Vegas is situated near the center of a broad desert valley surrounded by mountains rising 2,000 feet to 10,000 feet. The climate is arid with four distinct seasons.
It's a good time to buy in Spring Valley. Home Appreciataion is up 24.5% in the last 12 months. Browse Spring Valley Real Estate. The median home price in Spring Valley is $150,700. Las Vegas is situated near the center of a broad desert valley surrounded by mountains rising 2,000 feet to 10,000 feet. The climate is arid with four distinct seasons.
We have been looking a homes in the Spring Valley area prices are affordable, but concerned about safe neighborhood, there is a lot of tagging in the Bancroft area. It's a tagging crew. Spring Valley, especially La Presa, is riddled with gangs though so unless you know the area I'd not buy a home there (91977 is generally sketchier than 91978). Spring Valley, being the largest unincorporated area in San Diego, does have some nicer areas, some of which have incredible views.
It's a good time to buy in Spring Valley. Home Appreciataion is up 18.2% in the last 12 months. Browse Spring Valley Real Estate. The median home price in Spring Valley is $367,000. Browse Homes in this Range. Commute times have risen and air quality problems have worsened. (Read More about Spring Valley). All this said, the San Diego area still has a lot to offer. Downtown is mix of modern and old Mission-style architecture, pleasant but nondescript with a nice waterfront area dominated by hospitality activities.
The streets of Spring Valley Village reflect names of families who either owned or developed that area. What is called Westview Drive today was once called Holms Road for the E. J. Holm family. Fries Road, named after Mr. And Mrs. Fries honored a family who owned one of several plant nurseries in the area. Having no municipal water and sewer systems nor fire department, and the area having many trees, the greatest portion of Spring Valley Village was zoned residential and limited to one-family, one-story dwellings.
In 1842, the New York & Erie Railroad called this part of the territory Pascack, after a stream by the same name. The residents of the area decided to call the place Spring Valley – one certain large spring in the Valley Pond being responsible for the name. Prior to naming the territory Spring Valley, it was called Scotland, named after their homeland, by Scotsmen who had settled in the area. The village is next to the New York State Thruway (Interstate 87) and is served by a New Jersey Transit train station at the terminus of the Pascack Valley Line. Spring Valley is 22 miles (35 km) north of Manhattan and 5 miles (8 km) north of the New Jersey border.
According to the United States Census Bureau, the census-designated place (CDP) of Spring Valley (which may not exactly coincide with the town boundaries) has a total area of 33.4 sq mi (87 km 2), all of it land. The northern part of Spring Valley includes areas of rural-estate zoning, with large parcels of land on blocks of 1⁄64 square mile (40,000 m 2). The southern part of Spring Valley is quickly developing – fifteen years ago, very little south of Tropicana Avenue was developed within Spring Valley.