The active ingredient, mepiquat chloride, is a quaternary ammonium compound. It functions by inhibiting the production of the plant growth hormone gibberellic acid, reducing internode length, hastening maturity, and retarding abscission. It was originally registered for use on cotton in the mid-1980s. In a two-generation reproduction study in rats, mepiquat chloride did not cause reproductive effects even at the highest doses tested which were about 575 mg/kg/day for males and 627 mg/kg/day for females.
No. 7969-98), containing 23.6% mepiquat chloride, is a foliar-applied plant growth regulator for use on Concord and Niagara grapes only. The maximum seasonal Ponnax use rate (one pint) is equivalent to 0.25 pounds mepiquat chloride/acre/season. In a two-generation reproduction study in rats, mepiquat chloride did not cause reproductive effects even at the highest doses tested which were about 575 mg/kg/day for males and 627 mg/kg/day for females.
MEPIQUAT CHLORIDE. Description: MEPIQUAT CHLORIDE is absorbed by the plant primarily through leaves and translocated throughout the plant. It inhibits the biosynthesis of gibberellic acid, and leads to a deeper green leaf colouring after 3-6 days. It is used on cotton to reduce vege t ative growth and to advance maturation of the bolls. It is also used in combination with ethephon to prevent lodging in cereal and flax.
Chlormequat chloride and mepiquat chloride are. plant growth regulators, which can be absorbed. through leave, sprout and root and adjust the growth. of plants. In addition, these two active components. can make leave darker and thicker. Ion source parameters: drying gas temperature 350 o C; drying gas flow 9L; nebulizer pressure 40 psi;capilliary voltage 4000V.
In addition, these two active components can make leave darker and thicker. To establish quantitative method of chlormequat chloride and mepiquat chloride in plants play crucial role in enhancing plant photosynthesis activity and improve fruit quality. Ion source parameters: drying gas temperature 350 o C; drying gas flow 9L; nebulizer pressure 40 psi;capilliary voltage 4000V.
It also was negative in a number of genotoxicity tests. The USEPA classified mepiquat chloride as a not likely human carcinogen. &#160 &#160 The USEPA established tolerances for mepiquat chloride residues in or on grapes at 1.0 part per million (ppm). In a two-generation reproduction study in rats, mepiquat chloride did not cause reproductive effects even at the highest doses tested which were about 575 mg/kg/day for males and 627 mg/kg/day for females.
Ifboll retention is good, and if nothinghappens to damage the root system or tointerfere with normal absorption andtransport of nitrates, rank growth willnormally not occur with conventional ratesof fertilizer (1 / 10 pound N for each poundlint produced). Figure 1. Daily nitrogen requirements of a cottoncrop. Quantitatively, nitrogenuse is small until the plant reaches thereproductive stage when bolls are beingformed and water use increases to itsmaximum rate.As cotton plants enter the reproductivestage, larger quantities of nitrogen arerequired. An expanded root system sup-plies these needs.
Weighing 1.25 grams catchup concertrate, add water to total 25 ml, vortex at 2500rpm for 1 min, then ultrosonication 30min,centrifuge at 8500rpm for 10min,aliquote clear liquid for injection after ultrafiltration. Ion source parameters: drying gas temperature 350 o C; drying gas flow 9L; nebulizer pressure 40 psi;capilliary voltage 4000V.
At the right ofthe ruler, read the internodal lengthsfor the five uppermost nodes. 4. If the average internode length of thetop five nodes is in the RED area, STOP ;do not apply Mepiquat Chloride (MC).Plants growing at this growth rate mayattain a plant height of 30 inches or less. Quantitatively, nitrogenuse is small until the plant reaches thereproductive stage when bolls are beingformed and water use increases to itsmaximum rate.As cotton plants enter the reproductivestage, larger quantities of nitrogen arerequired. An expanded root system sup-plies these needs.