Eucalyptus /ˌjuːkəˈlɪptəs/ L'Heritier 1789 is a diverse genus of flowering trees and shrubs (including a distinct group with a multiple-stem mallee growth habit) in the myrtle family, Myrtaceae. Members of the genus dominate the tree flora of Australia. Today, eucalyptus is the most widely planted type of tree in plantations around the world, in South America (mainly in Brazil, Argentina, Paraguay and Uruguay), Australia, India, Galicia and many more.
The more than 700 species of eucalyptus are mostly native to Australia, and a very small number are found in adjacent areas of New Guinea and Indonesia. One species, Eucalyptus deglupta, ranges as far north as the Philippines. Today, eucalyptus is the most widely planted type of tree in plantations around the world, in South America (mainly in Brazil, Argentina, Paraguay and Uruguay), Australia, India, Galicia and many more.
Keeping your trees healthy is the best way to confront problems with eucalyptus trees and eucalyptus bushes. Disease and pests are usually opportunistic and invade where stress is present. Prune heavily and destroy all wood at the first sign of infection and hope for the best. There is little to be done for eucalyptus tree diseases these fungi cause. Preventing the spread of disease should be a priority. Burn all damaged wood immediately and disinfect any equipment used.
80 CONTENTS 13.1 Introduction 13.2 Eucalyptus diseases (gum) 13.3 Acacia diseases (wattle) 13.4 Pinus diseases (pine) 13.1 Introduction This chapter deals only with the major diseases of commercial forestry trees in South Africa. 
Canker, caused by a type of fungus, begins by infecting the bark and proceeds to the interior of the tree. Leaves turn yellow and drop and it is common to see eucalyptus trees dropping their branches as the disease takes hold. There is little to be done for eucalyptus tree diseases these fungi cause. Preventing the spread of disease should be a priority. Burn all damaged wood immediately and disinfect any equipment used.
Which makes it all the more alarming that across the country, swathes of gum trees are dying without obvious cause. In forests from Western Australia to the island state of Tasmania, trees that should be living for more than 400 years are mysteriously dying before reaching their 100th birthday. The same is happening to the Tuart trees (Eucalyptus gomphocephala) in the Yalgorup National Park in Western Australia. Since fires were suppressed in 1976, the West Australian peppermint tree (Agonis Flexuosa) has flourished at the expense of the gums (Botanical Review, vol 75, p 191).
Imported to the United States around 1860, the trees are native to Australia and up until 1990 were relatively pest and disease free. Today, people are seeing more problems with their eucalyptus bushes. There is little to be done for eucalyptus tree diseases these fungi cause. Preventing the spread of disease should be a priority. Burn all damaged wood immediately and disinfect any equipment used.
Cercospora. Cercospora is the most common of the many diseases of a sweet gum tree, according to the Florida Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services. Cercospora is a fungal spot disease that produces dark brown, bordered, angular to circular spots 2 to 10 mm in diameter on both sides of leaves. Artist's Conk. Artist's conk (Ganoderma applanatum) is a fungal disease of a sweet gum tree that causes wood rot, according to the University of California IPM Online. Artist's conk infects trees by entering through wounds. White rot occurs in roots and trunks.
The Tasmanian blue gum, southern blue gum or blue gum (Eucalyptus globulus) is an evergreen tree, one of the most widely cultivated trees native to Australia. They typically grow from 30–55 m (98–180 ft) tall. The tallest currently known specimen in Tasmania is 90.7 m (298 ft) tall. 
Diseases of a sweet gum tree (Liquidambar styraciflua) come in many forms, with the majority as fungal infections. Depending on the disease, a sweet gum tree may be affected on a cosmetic level or may be in danger of death. Artist's Conk. Artist's conk (Ganoderma applanatum) is a fungal disease of a sweet gum tree that causes wood rot, according to the University of California IPM Online. Artist's conk infects trees by entering through wounds. White rot occurs in roots and trunks.