Common names: Bluegill, Brim, Bream, Perch. If the largemouth bass is the king of freshwater sportfish in the United States, the humble bluegill is the throne holding it up. Bluegill are the most common forage fish stocked in farm ponds in the south and are the key forage species for largemouth bass. 
Definition of BLUEGILL. : a common sunfish (Lepomis macrochirus) of the eastern and central United States sought for food and sport. See bluegill defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT
Bream, Brim, Perch, Sunfish, Sunperch. Description. Lepomis, the generic name, is Greek and means scaled gill cover. The species epithet macrochirus is also Greek and means large hand which may refer to the body shape or its size. Bluegills may be distinguished from other sunfish by the dark spot at the base of the dorsal fin, vertical bars on their sides, and a relatively small mouth. The spiny dorsal fin usually has 10 spines (but may have as many as 11 or as few as 9), and is broadly connected to the soft dorsal. The anal fin has three spines.
The Bluegill (Lepomis macrochirus) is a species of freshwater fish sometimes referred to as bream, brim, or copper nose. It is a member of the sunfish family Centrarchidae of the order Perciformes. It is native to North America and lives in streams, rivers, lakes, and ponds. It is commonly found east of the Rockies. It usually hides around, and inside, old tree stumps and other underwater structures.
Bluegills can grow up to 12 inches long and about 4 1/2 pounds. They have beautiful coloring, with deep blue and purple on the face and gill flap, dark olive-colored bands down the side, and a fiery orange to yellow belly. The Bluegill is a fish from the Sunfish family. It lives in streams, rivers, lakes, and ponds. It usually hides around, and inside, old treestumps and other underwater structures. It can live in either deep or very shallow water, and will often move back and forth, depending on the time of day or season. Bluegills eat just about any little animal that will fit into their small mouths, especially aquatic (water) insects and terrestrial (land) insects that fall in the water. Bluegills are prey to many animals, such as larger fish, birds, and turtles.
Like other sunfish, bluegill have very deep and highly compressed bodies. In other words, they are tall and flat.. They have a small mouth on a short head. The dorsal fin is continuous, with the front part spiny and the back part soft and round with a dark smudge at the base. The very small mouth of this fish is an adaptation to eating small animals. Bluegills are carnivores, primarily eating invertebrates such as snails, worms, shrimp, aquatic insects, small crayfish, and zooplankton. They can also consume small fish such as minnows and plant material such as algae.
Etymology. The lower portion of the bluegill’s gill cover is often light powder blue. This can be somewhat confusing since the closely related pumpkinseed and longear sunfish can also display vibrant blue markings on the gill cover.
The Difference Between Bluegill & Sunfish. People often confuse the bluegill with the sunfish, because they don't see the differences in appearance that can be subtle in some cases. However, a bluegill (Lepomis macrochirus) is actually a type of sunfish (Centrarchidae family). Sunfish are a genus of freshwater fish, and one variety within the Lepomis genus is the bluegill -- the difference is that all bluegills are sunfish but not all sunfish are bluegills. Bluegill. The bluegill sunfish is identified by a black dot by the back part of the dorsal fin. The ear flap is black, while cheeks and gill covers frequently are a blue shade, The bluegill's mouth is small. Bluegills build their nests in shallow waters, often near those of largemouth bass.