I am sorry to hear about your vehicle being stolen. It is often common for insurance companies to request phone records. They are likely trying to determine if any fraud was involved. Of course you don't have to give them the records, however, they may not proceed any further with the claim without the records. However, you should also note that some states and/or phone carrier will not release this information without a court order or subpoena. If it will cost a significant amount of money, you can request that the insurance company pay for them or reimburse you. Also if they are requesting the records for a long period of time, you can maybe ask the insurance company to cut back on the period of time they are requesting the records for.
So, the short answer is, yes they can ask for your cell phone records. The longer answer is, the request should be based on a valid investigation, not on a fishing expedition. If you have nothing to hide, you should give them the records. Your insurance policy no doubt has a clause that requires you to cooperate. QUESTION: My car was stolen from a shopping center parking lot. I have a witness who saw my car prior and receipts from that afternoon. I supplied the insurance company everything they requested except for my cell phone call details.
If a lawsuit has not yet been filed, then you are not required to turn over your cell phone records. Insurance adjusters may try to convince you that they need your records before the claim can be processed, but it is important to avoid giving them sensitive information that they may attempt to use against you. Civil discovery can involve any material(s) which may be reasonably expected to lead to admissible evidence in a lawsuit. In some instances the opposing side may argue that your cell phone records are admissible evidence to support their case, and you may be orde
QUESTION: Thank you for your quick response. Just a follow up: My cell phone provider doesn't bill me. The insurance company sent me a form to complete so they can obtain the records for two days prior and the day of the theft. QUESTION: My car was stolen from a shopping center parking lot. I have a witness who saw my car prior and receipts from that afternoon. I supplied the insurance company everything they requested except for my cell phone call details.
Zip Code: Naturally, the cell phone service provider that you use has access to your cell phone records, but it’s subject to privacy laws and is supposed to keep your information safely stored away from the public. Moreover, the Patriot Act makes it illegal for the cell phone company that has delivered your records to the FBI or NSA to make it publicly known or even discuss the fact that your phone records have been investigated.
Government agencies can access to your cell phone records (including call logs and text records) with a subpoena if you’re part of or connected to a criminal investigation or a civil lawsuit. Your cell phone company is required by law to comply with subpoenas that request the records. Moreover, the Patriot Act makes it illegal for the cell phone company that has delivered your records to the FBI or NSA to make it publicly known or even discuss the fact that your phone records have been investigated.
In my experience, when they ask for cell phone records, they suspect you might be involved. They use the records to see who you called and when. As an investigator myself, I have done this. However, I should add that I had good reason-based on solid investigation-that the cell phone records were material to the claim. QUESTION: My car was stolen from a shopping center parking lot. I have a witness who saw my car prior and receipts from that afternoon. I supplied the insurance company everything they requested except for my cell phone call details.
Generally speaking, you are not required to turn over your cell phone records to your insurance company or the other driver's insurance company unless a lawsuit has been filed in connection with the crash. Civil discovery can involve any material(s) which may be reasonably expected to lead to admissible evidence in a lawsuit. In some instances the opposing side may argue that your cell phone records are admissible evidence to support their case, and you may be ordered to turn over your cell phone records.
Thank you for responding. While it's customary to thoroughly investigate a claim, of my legal experience, it's sounds a bit unusual for an insurance company to request cell phone records for such an incident. I'm not saying that they have no right to-for if they have found a valid reason, then-yes, it would be legal. Reply to The Mystic Wave's Post: My car was stolen on Oct. 1, 2005 and they told me they wanted my cell phone records, receipts for the day and all of my oil change records, the name of the person who picked me up from the scene, their description, name and number.