Sea temperature in China (Shanghai) in January: 10°C, 50°F. Average rainfall in China in January: 4mm, 0.2in. Note: January is the coldest month in China, but the south (Hong Kong, Macau and Shenzhen) do not experience very cold conditions. Average temperature in China in March: 5C, 40°F. Sea temperature in China (Shanghai) in February: 8°C, 46°F. Average rainfall in China in February: 8mm, 0.3in. Note: March heralds the onset of spring in China, with even the frozen north beginning to feel warmer as the thaw sets in.
Average temperature in China in August: 25C, 77°F. Sea temperature in China (Shanghai) in August: 27°C, 81°F. Average rainfall in China in August: 141mm, 5.6in. Note: The height of the summer season in China is a good time to visit Tibet and Mongolia, which are warm and dry. Average temperature in China in March: 5C, 40°F. Sea temperature in China (Shanghai) in February: 8°C, 46°F. Average rainfall in China in February: 8mm, 0.3in. Note: March heralds the onset of spring in China, with even the frozen north beginning to feel warmer as the thaw sets in.
Beijing: Annual Weather Averages. July is the hottest month in Beijing with an average temperature of 27°C (81°F) and the coldest is January at -4°C (25°F) with the most daily sunshine hours at 12 in June. The wettest month is August with an average of 182mm of rain. Loading weather data
Beijing Climate. Beijing is located in the warm temperature zone and has a continental climate. Annual rainfall averages nearly 700 millimetres, most of it comes in July and August. The frost-free period is 185 days. The average temperature throughout the whole year is 11.7℃. The average temperatures of the hottest month, July and the coldest month January range from 27℃and -4.6℃.
Between March and May, the spring weather in Beijing is generally dry, and quite warm, although sandstorms can blow in from the Gobi desert. If this happens, at least it blows away the worst of the pollution, and the vivid yellow skies can be very striking. Winters in Beijing are quite harsh, with a good deal of snow and temperatures which often don't exceed freezing. Bring good winter clothing, hats and gloves, and consider a mask for the smog.
Sea temperature in China (Shanghai) in May: 16°C, 61°F. Average rainfall in China in May: 35mm, 1.4in. Note: As the weather heats up, China’s peak tourist season kicks into gear. The countryside is green and festooned with spring flowers, and May brings a preponderance of sunshine everywhere north of the Yangtze. Average temperature in China in March: 5C, 40°F. Sea temperature in China (Shanghai) in February: 8°C, 46°F. Average rainfall in China in February: 8mm, 0.3in. Note: March heralds the onset of spring in China, with even the frozen north beginning to feel warmer as the thaw sets in.
Beijing is located in East Asia, so the climate has obvious regional differences. The climate in Beijing belongs to the warm temperate zone, half moist continental monsoon climate, featuring four distinct seasons: arid multi-windy spring, hot and multi-rain summer, sunny and fresh autumn and the cold and dry winter. When entering the summer, it will become much hotter in the city. The daytime temperature generally is about 34 o C(93.2 o F), and there will be many rainstorms. The total sum of the precipitation in summer may be 70% of the rainfall in the whole year. So, autumn is the best season of the year in Beijing.
Spring (April – May). The temperature for Spring in Beijing will rise from an average of around 11.4C to 20C over the course of the season. Although spring is often cited as a windy season for Beijing, it is also one of the best times to visit. Shenzhen is in the very south of China and has a subtropical climate. The weather is much more constant all year round than Beijing and Shanghai, and so does not have such extremes of temperature in summer and winter.
Beijing in the Summer. Between July and August, Beijing's summer can be scorching. Temperatures regularly top 30°C, and you should bring a hat, sunglasses and sunscreen. There are occasional short, sharp downpours, so an umbrella would be useful too. Winters in Beijing are quite harsh, with a good deal of snow and temperatures which often don't exceed freezing. Bring good winter clothing, hats and gloves, and consider a mask for the smog.