For the exoatmospheric nuclear test, refer to Bluegill (nuclear test). The Bluegill (Lepomis macrochirus) is a species of freshwater fish sometimes referred to as bream, brim, or copper nose. It is a member of the sunfish family Centrarchidae of the order Perciformes. It is native to North America and lives in streams, rivers, lakes, and ponds. It is commonly found east of the Rockies. 
Answers. Best Answer: &nbsp There are two species of crappie, the black and the white crappie. Both spawn at approximately the same water temperature, anywhere from about 59 degrees Fahrenheit to 68 degrees Fahrenheit. In my area its usually sometime in April but varies in different parts of the country. The bluegill sunfish can spawn multiple times during the warmer months of the year. They typically first spawn sometime in spring when water temps hit 67 degrees Fahrenheit and will spawn up until temperatures rise above 82 degrees
Spawn Season. As the late spring days get warmer and longer, water temperatures will also be on the rise. A consistent water temperature above 70 degrees typically signifies the start of the yearly peak in bluegill fishing: Spawn Season. The increase of spring sun and warmer weather will elevate the water temperature. This change encourages the bluegill to make their way into the shallow waters from the deeper hollows where they spent the frigid winter. The temperature change also makes the fish more active and sparks the desirable spawn season.
Bass anglers can lose focus after the fish leave the beds. Anglers knew what to do as the fish went through the prespawn and actual spawn, but 10 days later these same anglers can be confused, zipping from one spot to the next like water bugs. It’s this postspawn period, prior to the fish setting up on established summertime areas, that throws a monkey wrench into bass fishing
The bluegill will be aggressive and hungry so catching them will be easy work. In many areas, it is possible for a rash of cold weather to hit after spawn season has started. This will decrease the water temperature and change how the male bluegill bite. The increase of spring sun and warmer weather will elevate the water temperature. This change encourages the bluegill to make their way into the shallow waters from the deeper hollows where they spent the frigid winter. The temperature change also makes the fish more active and sparks the desirable spawn season.
Bluegill spawning begins in the spring when water temperatures reach about 70 degrees F., peaks in May or June, and continues until the water cools again in the fall. In areas that are free from overcrowding, some will spawn again during the latter part of the season. 
Spawning occurs when water temperature reaches 69 degrees in water 2 to 3 feet deep. It is during spawn that all panfish are easiest to catch. Fish return to the same spawning beds year after year, so discovering a hotspot ensures fishing success every spring. Common Names. bream, blue bream, sun perch, blue sunfish, copperhead, copperbelly, roach. Description. Bluegills have small mouths and oval-shaped, almost rounded, bodies. Body coloration is highly variable with size, sex, spawning, water color, bottom type, and amount of cover.
A female may produce 2,000 to 145,000 eggs. Two sunfish species which may be of interest to area anglers are redear sunfish and bluegill. The redear sunfish spawn usually peaks around 68-70oF (April-May), while bluegill start later in the season and peak around 72-78oF (May-June). 
Spring Bluegill Spawn. Spring is an excellent time to catch monster bluegills. With the hardships of winter ending, the bluegill's attention turns toward feasting to gather energy for the bluegill spawn. Conditions are optimal for a fisherman to take advantage of this frenzy of activity since the bluegills will be less cautious and more voracious than any other time of the year. 
[ Fishing for Bluegill]. Common Names. bream, blue bream, sun perch, blue sunfish, copperhead, copperbelly, roach. Description. Bluegills have small mouths and oval-shaped, almost rounded, bodies. Body coloration is highly variable with size, sex, spawning, water color, bottom type, and amount of cover.