An individual form of life, such as a bacterium, protist, fungus, plant, or animal, composed of a single cell or a complex of cells in which organelles or organs work together to carry out the various processes of life. crossbreed, hybrid, cross - (genetics) an organism that is the offspring of genetically dissimilar parents or stock; especially offspring produced by breeding plants or animals of different varieties or breeds or species; a mule is a cross between a horse and a donkey.
Confidence votes 90.2K. An organism is an individual form of life, such as plants, animals, protist, bacterium, or fungi. It is a body made up of organs, organelles, or other parts that work together to carry on the various processes of life. An organism is a term used to describe a living thing like a plant or animal. An organism is any living thing an example of an organism is human,animals, and trees. an organisim is a living thing duh.
organism. n. 1. (Biology) any living biological entity, such as an animal, plant, fungus, or bacterium. 2. anything resembling a living creature in structure, behaviour, etc. crossbreed, hybrid, cross - (genetics) an organism that is the offspring of genetically dissimilar parents or stock; especially offspring produced by breeding plants or animals of different varieties or breeds or species; a mule is a cross between a horse and a donkey.
A genetically modified organism (GMO), also known as a transgenic organism, is any organism whose genetic material has been altered using genetic engineering techniques (i.e. genetically engineered organism). 
All known types of organisms are capable of some degree of response to stimuli, reproduction, growth and development and homeostasis. An organism consists of one or more cells; when it has one cell is a unicellular organism; and when it has more than one it is known as a multicellular organism. Most unicellular organisms are of microscopic size and are thus classified as microorganisms. Fungi, animals and plants are examples of kingdoms of organisms within the eukaryotes. In 2002, Thomas Cavalier-Smith, author of Branching order of bacterial phyla, proposed a clade, Neomura, which groups together the Archaea and Eukarya.
The term organism (from Greek ὀργανισμός, organismos, from ὄργανον, organon, i.e. instrument, implement, tool, organ of sense or apprehension) first appeared in the English language in 1703 and took on its current definition by 1834 (Oxford English Dictionary). It is directly related to the term organization. Fungi, animals and plants are examples of kingdoms of organisms within the eukaryotes. In 2002, Thomas Cavalier-Smith, author of Branching order of bacterial phyla, proposed a clade, Neomura, which groups together the Archaea and Eukarya.
Organism. In biology, an organism is any contiguous living system. In at least some form, all types of organisms are capable of responding to stimuli, reproduction, growth and development, and maintenance of homeostasis as a stable whole.
Full Definition of ORGANISM. 1. : a complex structure of interdependent and subordinate elements whose relations and properties are largely determined by their function in the whole. 2. : an individual constituted to carry on the activities of life by means of organs separate in function but mutually dependent: a living being. 
n. An individual form of life, such as a plant, animal, bacterium, protist, or fungus; a body made up of organs, organelles, or other parts that work together to carry on the various processes of life. or′gan·is′mal (-nĭz′məl) , or′gan·is′mic (-mĭk) adj. Organism. An individual of some type of life form, such as a plant, an animal, or a microorganism. Mentioned in: Antibiotics, Antihelminthic Drugs, Antimalarial Drugs, Urinary Anti-Infectives, Vaginal Pain.
These are all organisms. The definition of an organism is a creature such as a plant, animal or a single-celled life form, or something that has interdependent parts and that is being compared to a living creature. 1 An individual form of life, such as a bacterium, protist, fungus, plant, or animal, composed of a single cell or a complex of cells in which organelles or organs work together to carry out the various processes of life.