14. The lobe of the brain responsible for personality, planning, and organization. ________________. Frontal Lobe The frontal lobe links and integrates all components of behavior at the highest level. Emotion and social adjustment and impulse control are also localized here. 
The Human Brain. The human brain is a unique and complex structure; it facilitates vital and complicated physiological and psychological functions such as consciousness, mobility, emotion, and personality. Different parts of the brain are responsible for specific functions. The frontal lobe is the largest of the four lobes. The frontal lobe is responsible for many different functions involving conscious thought, voluntary movement, and personality. The frontal lobe also facilitates word choice, organization, and behavior.
The frontal lobe is the emotional control center of the brain responsible for forming our personality and influencing out decisions. The frontal lobe is located at the front of the central sulcus where it receives information signals from other lobes of the brain. 1 Since the hippocampus, or part of the brain responsible for transferring short-term memories into long-term memories, is located in the temporal lobe, the temporal lobe helps to form long-term memories and process new information. 2  The formation of visual and verbal memories. 3  The interpretation of smells and sounds.
Click Here To Return To Diagram. Frontal Lobe-Front part of the brain; involved in planning, organizing, problem solving, selective attention, personality and a variety of higher cognitive functions including behavior and emotions. Occipital Lobe-Region in the back of the brain which processes visual information. Not only is the occipital lobe mainly responsible for visual reception, it also contains association areas that help in the visual recognition of shapes and colors. Damage to this lobe can cause visual deficits.
Report Abuse. Personality, along with every higher brain function, involves several areas of the brain. It's been noted that damage to the frontal lobe has the greatest effect on personality, but it's not the only place where damage can produce an effect. The brain is not sectionalized
Four primary regions are the brainstem, the cerebellum, the cerebrum, and the cerebral cortex. Each brain region is responsible for a variety of functions, and injury to any of these regions impairs specific functions. The frontal lobe is the largest of the four lobes. The frontal lobe is responsible for many different functions involving conscious thought, voluntary movement, and personality. The frontal lobe also facilitates word choice, organization, and behavior.
Frontal Lobes. The frontal lobes are considered our emotional control center and home to our personality. There is no other part of the brain where lesions can cause such a wide variety of symptoms (Kolb & Wishaw, 1990). The frontal lobes are involved in motor function, problem solving, spontaneity, memory, language, initiation, judgement, impulse control, and social and sexual behavior.
The cerebrum is the largest portion of the brain, and contains tools which are responsible for most of the brain's function. It is divided into four sections: the temporal lobe, the occipital lobe, parietal lobe and frontal lobe. Many different parts of the brain and their functions are shown in the article. The human brain is ultimately responsible for all thought and movement that the body produces.