The LINQSTAT material has the same characteristics as the Velostat material – namely a carbon-loaded polyethylene with volume conductive properties. These properties eliminate the ESD static charge build-up and are used extensively in ordnance and explosives industries. If you’re wondering how the heck you can handle a 72″ wide roll, let me reassure you that these are supplied in what’s known as a V-sheet. A V-sheet is simply a sheet that is 72″ wide folded over on itself. Therefore a 72″ wide roll is actually folded over on itself and supplied as a 36″ wide roll.
Description -. This conductive material (also known as Velostat or Linqstat) is a nice addition for your wearable/sensor hacking toolkit. It's pressure-sensitive: squeezing it will reduce the resistance, so it's handy for making flexible sensors. And it's a lot less expensive than off-the-shelf pressure or bend sensors too! Each order comes with a 11x11 (28cm x 28cm) 4mil (0.1mm) thick piece. We may fold the sheet into quarters to ship it to you. To remove any hard creases, simply lay flat on a table and put a heavy book on top to flatten it out.
also: anti-static bag, ESD bag. Velostat is a piezoresistive material, meaning it’s electrical resistance decreases when pressured. When sandwiched between two conductive layers, it has a wonderful range for making pressure and bend sensors. It can also be used for resistive sensing over distance, position sensing. Velostat is a back, opaque, volume-conductive, carbon-impregnated polyolefin. The electrical characteristics are not affected by age or humidity (but they do change when melted under the iron).
Tags: Linqstat, packing specifications, Velostat. T his article addresses the common question of the Packaging Weights and Package Dimensions of the LINQSTAT Volume Conductive Film (VCF). This product is CAPLINQ ‘s equivalent product to 3M Velostat* material. We add to this the 35 lbs. weight of the pallet and we get the following: 1  6 rolls of 72 in x 150 ft x 0.004 in, weighs 209 lbs and for 12 rolls, it is 383 lbs. 2  2 rolls of 72 in x 750 ft x 0.004 in, weighs 255 lbs and for 4 rolls, it is 475 lbs.
also: anti-static bag, ESD bag Velostat is a piezoresistive material, meaning it’s electrical resistance decreases when pressured. When sandwiched between two conductive layers, it has a wonderful range for making pressure and bend sensors. It can also be used for resistive sensing over distance, position sensing. 
shoe velostat datasheet abstract. Abstract: 3 Static Control Products and Services Catalog Important Notice Before using this product, you must evaluate it and determine if it is suitable for your intended application. You assume all risks and liability associated with such use. Abstract: straps which are usually made of a conductive material, such as Velostat or metal. A resistor value of, with a grounded, conductive work surface. This consists of a conductive surface like Velostat ...
Velostat is a packaging material made of a polymeric foil (polyolefines) impregnated with carbon black to make it electrically conductive. It is used for the protection of items or devices that are susceptible to damage from electrostatic discharge. 
Velostat is the brand name for this material manufactured by 3M. Linqstat is the same thing, just manufactured by another company, Caplinq. This is also the material from which the black anti-static storage bags for sensitive electrical components are made. It can also be used for resistive sensing over distance, position sensing. Velostat is a back, opaque, volume-conductive, carbon-impregnated polyolefin. The electrical characteristics are not affected by age or humidity (but they do change when melted under the iron).
You can also sew the Velostat to a cloth hat by using a sewing needle for leather which can be purchased at a fabric shop. Large hats with a band on the inside make good thought screens because all you have to do is cut and insert the Velostat into the inside hat band. You can then sew or tape the Velostat to the hat band. Contact this website if you need directions for making thought screens from other types of hats. Tape Tape can be purchased at any hardware store, 2 inch wide tape is recommended. Suggested tape is Scotch Black Cloth Tape, part number 330BLK-NA.
Rating is available when the video has been rented. This feature is not available right now. Please try again later. I will show you how to make a basic pressure sensor using a material called Velostat https://www.adafruit.com/products/1361 and conductive thread https://www.adafruit.com/products/641.