In this article. Hibiscus is a plant known for its large, colorful flowers. Different types of hibiscus have been used around the world as herbal remedies. In recent years, researchers have been exploring the health effects of hibiscus and chemicals in the plant. 
The hibiscus is the national flower of Haiti and is used in their national tourism slogan of Haiti: Haïti Experience! It The hibiscus species also represents several other. Nations The hibiscus syriacus is the national flower Of South, korea And hibiscus-rosa sinensis is the national flower Of. malaysia In the Indian traditional system of medicine, Ayurveda, hibiscus, especially white hibiscus and red hibiscus (Hibiscus rosa-sinensis), is considered to have medicinal properties. The roots are used to make various concoctions believed to cure ailments such as cough, hair loss or hair greying.
HIBISCUS Overview Information. Hibiscus is a bushy annual plant. Parts of the flower are used to make a popular drink in Egypt called Karkade. Various parts of the plant are also used to make jams, spices, soups, and sauces. The flowers are used to make medicine
The hibiscus is the national flower of Haiti and is used in their national tourism slogan of Haiti: Haïti Experience! It The hibiscus species also represents several other. nations In the Indian traditional system of medicine, Ayurveda, hibiscus, especially white hibiscus and red hibiscus (Hibiscus rosa-sinensis), is considered to have medicinal properties. The roots are used to make various concoctions believed to cure ailments such as cough, hair loss or hair greying.
Uses. The flowers of the hibiscus are mostly utilized in the preparation of herbal teas and juices, it is also used as a wholesome sweet and sour, caffeine free herbal health drink, but the most common use of the hibiscus is in the form of herbal tea mixtures and as a tasty and colorful additive in food preparations.
Hibiscus. This page contains information on hibiscus and how it is used as a herb in alternative herbal treatments to treat ailments and problems, such as loss of appetite, colds, wound healing, treating damaged and irritated tissue and rejuvenating the skin. 
A tea with potential. Hibiscus plants are known for their large, colorful flowers that make a decorative addition to a home or garden. They also have medicinal uses. Flowers and leaves can be made into teas and liquid extracts that are used to treat a variety of conditions. 
Hibiscus tea is a herbal tea made as an infusion from crimson or deep magenta-coloured calyces (sepals) of the roselle (Hibiscus sabdariffa) flower. It is consumed both hot and cold. It has a tart, cranberry-like flavor, and sugar is often added to sweeten the beverage. 
Uses of Hibiscus leaves are not only used medicinally, they are consumed in different forms and many a times used as ornamental offerings and general landscaping in gardens and parks. Hibiscus leaves are processed in various forms for different uses. Dried Hibiscus leaves are used as garnishing in various cuisines like Mexican. Its flower is used to make a form of tea that is popular in several countries with various names. 
• In Egypt and Sudan, hibiscus is used to help maintain a normal body temperature, support heart health, and encourage fluid balance.*. • North Africans have used hibiscus internally for supporting upper respiratory health including the throat throat and also use it topically to support skin health. You may be familiar with hibiscus, known as “sour tea” in Iran, a delicious and refreshing summertime drink. However, this pleasant-tasting herb with the deep-red color also has beneficial health properties, specifically for those looking to support cardiovascular health.*. Traditional use.