Nervous Tissue. Nervous tissue includes all cells that provide communication between other tissue types. Think of nervous tissue as the communication network of the body, consisting of a master computer(the brain) linked to multiple sites via complex cabling and wires(the spinal cord and nerves).
Microglial cells are sometimes known simply as microglia and are found in the Central Nervous System (CNS), that is in the tissues of the Brain and Spinal Cord. : Microglia are small glial cells. : 1  Protects CNS neurons from disease 2  -. e.g. by clearing away debris and dead cells.
The cells in nervous tissue that generate and conduct impulses are called neurons or nerve cells. These cells have three principal parts: the dendrites, the cell body, and one axon. The main part of the cell, the part that carries on the general functions, is the cell body.
Microglial cells are sometimes known simply as microglia and are found in the Central Nervous System (CNS), that is in the tissues of the Brain and Spinal Cord. : Microglia are small glial cells. : 1  Protects CNS neurons from disease -.
Ependymal cells are found in the Central Nervous System (CNS), that is in the tissues of the Brain and Spinal Cord. : : 1  Protection: Forms lining of the ventricles of the brain and central canal of the spinal cord.
Oligodendrocyte cells are found in the Central Nervous System (CNS), that is in the tissues of the Brain and Spinal Cord. : Oligodendrocytes differ from astrocytes (listed higher-up this page) by having fewer and thinner processes and no gap junctions. : 1  Forms supporting network around CNS neurons.
NERVOUS TISSUE. Nervous tissue is the fourth basic tissue type of the body and is organized into two basic systems: (1) the Central Nervous System (CNS) and (2) the Peripheral Nervous System (PNS). The peripheral system responds to stimuli and sends impulses to the central system (brain and spinal cord).
Nervous tissue is found in the brain, spinal cord, and nerves. It is responsible for coordinating and controlling many body activities. It stimulates muscle contraction, creates an awareness of the environment, and plays a major role in emotions, memory, and reasoning.
Two basic types of cells are found in nervous tissue. Neurons are large cells that function to conduct impulses from one part of the nervous system to another (example: from the spinal cord to the brain). Neuroglia are small cells that glue the neurons together (they have many other functions as well).