Podiatrists treat common foot and ankle ailments as well as perform more complicated surgeries. Podiatrists provide medical and surgical care for people with foot, ankle, and lower leg problems. They diagnose illnesses, treat injuries, and perform surgery involving the lower extremities. What Podiatrists Do. Podiatrists provide medical care for people with foot, ankle, and lower leg problems. They diagnose illnesses, treat injuries, and perform surgery involving the lower extremities.
Not to be confused with Pediatrist. A podiatrist, also known as a podiatric physician (/poʊˈdaɪətrɪst/ poh-dye-eh-trist) or foot doctor, is a medical professional, a physician devoted to the study and medical treatment of disorders of the foot, ankle and lower extremity. Although podiatrists worldwide do not attend traditional medical school, in many countries such as the United States, United Kingdom, Spain and Australia they are granted privileges to perform surgical procedures of the foot and ankle.
The level and scope of the practice of podiatry vary among countries. According to the American Association of Colleges of Podiatric Medicine, a Doctor of Podiatric Medicine (DPM) is a medical specialist who diagnoses and treats conditions affecting the foot, ankle, and structures of the leg. The term podiatry came into use in the early 20th century in the United States and is now used worldwide, including countries such as the United Kingdom and Australia. The term chiropody is still used in Ontario, Canada, which is currently reviewing a transition to a more comprehensive podiatry model of foot care.
10 most extreme places on Earth. Many people think of podiatrists as foot doctors. In fact, podiatrists are doctors that specialize in the study, diagnosis, treatment and prevention of ailments that affect the feet, the ankles and even the lower legs. Podiatrists are real doctors and many are certified in primary medicine. 
Many individuals have ailments of the lower legs, ankles, and the feet that often need the attention of a doctor. This type of doctor is a podiatrist often termed a chiropodist and known to many as a “foot doctor”. Their specialty is studying, diagnosing, and treating problems and conditions of these types of ailments. Prevention is another area of their specialty
A podiatrist, also called a doctor of podiatric medicine, is a specialist who provides medical diagnosis and treatment of foot and ankle problems, including, but not limited to sprains and fractures, bunions, heel pain/spurs, hammertoes, neuromas, ingrown & fungal toenails, warts, corns and calluses. A podiatrist also renders care of sprains, fractures, infections, and injuries of the foot, ankle and heel. In addition to undergraduate medical school training, podiatrists also attend graduate school for a doctorate degree in podiatry.
FAQ about Today's Podiatrists. Today's podiatrists are specialists, medically and surgically trained to treat the foot and ankle. From sports injuries and diabetes complications to pediatric deformities and heel pain, podiatrists are able to tackle all of your foot care needs. A. Podiatrists, podiatric physicians, and podiatric surgeons are all terms used to describe doctors of podiatric medicine (DPMs). All are uniquely qualified among medical professionals to treat the foot and ankle based on their education, training, and experience.
A podiatrist is a doctor of podiatric medicine (DPM), also known as a podiatric physician or surgeon. Podiatrists diagnose and treat conditions of the foot, ankle, and related structures of the leg. Podiatrists are the most qualified doctors to care for your feet. They complete four years of training in a podiatric medical school and three years of hospital residency training. This training is similar to that of other doctors.