Oral thrush occurs when a yeast infection develops on the inside of your mouth and on your tongue. This condition is also known as oropharyngeal candidiasis. Oral thrush is caused by the fungus Candida albicans. A small amount of this fungus normally lives in your mouth, but is kept in check by your immune system. An infection develops when the fungus overwhelms your body’s ability to control it. Oral thrush occurs most often in infants and toddlers
Definition. Thrush is a fungal infection of the mouth caused by an overgrowth of the yeast organism Candida albicans. Thrush usually begins on the tongue and inside of the cheeks and may spread to the palate, gums, tonsils, and throat. ... 
An overgrowth of the Candida fungus in the mouth or throat is what causes thrush. Thrush in infants is relatively common and is only a concern if it causes poor feeding or is associated with weight loss or other symptoms of systemic illness. 
Candida, the yeast that causes thrush, is normally present in small amounts in the mouth and on other mucous membranes. It usually causes no harm. But when conditions are present that let the yeast grow uncontrolled, the yeast invades surrounding tissues and becomes an infection. 
Candida albicans yeast causes 80% to 90% of vaginal yeast infections. Normally, your body produces bacteria that keep candida in check. But when candida multiplies and exceeds the body's ability to control it, vaginal thrush can occur. Vaginal thrush: Symptoms, diagnosis and treatment. Vaginal thrush is a yeast infection and is very common. Also known as candidiasis, yeast infections can develop in the warm, moist parts of your body such as the vagina, mouth and skin.
1 Thrush (oropharyngeal candidiasis) is a medical condition in which a fungus called Candida albicans overgrows in the mouth and throat. 2  Thrush may be caused by a variety of factors, including illness, pregnancy, medications, smoking, or dentures. Thrush facts. 1 
Thrush is usually caused by the yeast fungus candida albicans. This yeast lives harmlessly on the skin and in the mouth, gut and vagina. Normally it is kept under control. Occasionally, however, conditions change and signs and symptoms can develop. Thrush and Bacterial vaginosis. Thrush is an infection that is caused by a yeast fungus. It is not a sexually transmitted infection but can sometimes develop after you have had sex. Thrush can develop in the vagina and on the male and female genitals.
Cause. Candida, the yeast that causes thrush, is normally present in small amounts in the mouth and on other mucous membranes. It usually causes no harm. But when conditions are present that let the yeast grow uncontrolled, the yeast invades surrounding tissues and becomes an infection. 
A. Thrush is an infection of the mouth caused by the candida fungus, also known as yeast. Candida infection is not limited to the mouth; it can occur in other parts of the body as well, causing diaper rash in infants or vaginal yeast infections in women. 