Potassium alum has been used in maraschino cherries and pickles. The aluminum helps make the cell walls of fruits and vegetables sturdier, producing a crisp pickle or firm cherry. Although alum is approved as a food additive by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, it is toxic in large doses.
Properties of Aluminum Sulfate. This chemical is a white crystalline substance which is readily soluble in water, but insoluble in alcohol. When burned at temperatures above 770 degrees centigrade it decomposes to aluminum oxide and gives off toxic, corrosive fumes.
Aluminum sulfate is an odorless, white, or off-white crystalline solid or powder. The compound is made by adding aluminum hydroxide to sulfuric acid. It’s hygroscopic, which means it has the ability to absorb and hold water molecules from the surrounding atmosphere. It’s also water soluble and not volatile or flammable.
Adverse Effects. Although non toxic, aluminum sulfate dust can cause irritation to the eyes, nose, mouth and throat if inhaled. Flushing with large amounts of water will ease uncomfortable symptoms of exposure. When ingested in large amounts it causes gastric irritation, nausea, vomiting and diarrhea.
Do not use aluminum sulfate to lower the soil pH because aluminum is toxic to blueberries and is already present in many soils in the region in quantities that can negatively impact blueberry plants once the pH is lowered. Do NOT use aluminum sulfate, as this material is toxic to blueberries. A few months ago I called my local nursery to ask if they carried ammonium sulfate. He said Oh, you want aluminum sulfate to acidify the soil for blueberries.. I cringed in horror that this advice is being dispensed so regularly.
Aluminum sulfate is a chemical compound that’s sometimes referred to as sulfuric acid, aluminum salt, or cake alum. It has a wide variety of applications, including waste treatment, water purification, and paper manufacturing.
Any form of aluminum sulfate could be called alum, including toxic versions of the chemical. However, the type of alum you find used for pickling and in deodorant is potassium alum, KAl(SO 4) 2 ·12H 2 O. Sodium aluminum sulfate is a type of alum that is used in commercial baking powder.