1 Cook with lids on your pots to reduce the moisture that is put into the air. 2  Run ceiling fans to keep warm air from rising to the ceiling to help prevent condensation on roof windows and skylights. 3  If your basement is concrete, provide drainage where ground water could be building up. The air around us contains water vapor (humidity), and we add more water vapor to it by normal breathing, perspiration, cooking, cleaning and showering. When the air becomes saturated with excess humidity, it dispels the moisture by condensing it back into water. This is what shows up on your windows glass.
Mayonnaise (/ˈmeɪəneɪz/ , often abbreviated as mayo) is a thick, creamy sauce often used as a condiment. It is a stable emulsion of oil, an emulsifier, and either vinegar or lemon juice, with many options for embellishment with other herbs and spices. The word mayonnaise was not used for a sauce before the start of the nineteenth century. The earliest reference appears to be by Alexandre Viard (1806), who however never quite gives a recipe for the sauce itself.
Small amounts of leakage that does not create a sag, drop, or other nonuniform fluid structure. Reference SAE J1176. 
Grease: To rub the interior surface of a cooking dish or pan with shortening, oil, or butter to prevent food from sticking to it. Grill: To cook food on a rack under or over direct heat, as on a barbecue or in a broiler. Grind: To reduce food to tiny particles using a grinder or a food processor. Shred: To cut food into narrow strips with a knife or a grater. Simmer: To cook in liquid just below the boiling point; bubbles form but do not burst on the surface of the liquid. Skim: To remove surface foam or fat from a liquid.
This is usually caused by incorrect preparation of the meringue such as improper beating of the egg whites, undissolved sugar in the egg whites, spreading the meringue on a cold filling, or over baking the meringue. Save. Rate & Review. Email. Print. The term weeping is used to describe a meringue topping that oozes moisture, which gives a finished dessert an unattractive appearance.
From the Italian to the tooth.. Bake: To cook food in an oven, surrounded with dry heat; called roasting when applied to meat or poultry. Baking powder: A combination of baking soda, an acid such as cream of tartar, and a starch or flour (moisture absorber). Shred: To cut food into narrow strips with a knife or a grater. Simmer: To cook in liquid just below the boiling point; bubbles form but do not burst on the surface of the liquid. Skim: To remove surface foam or fat from a liquid.
Definition of CARTOUCHE. 1. : a gun cartridge with a paper case. 2. : an ornate or ornamental frame. 3. : an oval or oblong figure (as on ancient Egyptian monuments) enclosing a sovereign's name. 
Directions. Combine milk and vanilla in a medium saucepan and heat over low heat until warm. Sift confectioners' sugar into milk mixture. Whisk slowly, until well combined. Remove the glaze from the heat and set over a bowl of warm water. Dip doughnuts into the glaze, 1 at a time, and set on a draining rack placed in a half sheet pan for 5 minutes before serving. Recipe courtesy of Alton Brown, 2004. View All. 
Full Definition of SEEPAGE. 1. : the process of seeping: oozing. 2. : a quantity of fluid that has seeped (as through porous material). See seepage defined for English-language learners. See seepage defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 