Morphine is a very strong painkiller. Morphine overdose occurs when a person intentionally or accidentally takes too much of the medicine. This is for information only and not for use in the treatment or management of an actual poison exposure. 
Morphine is a narcotic, opioid drug. It is possible to overdose on morphine. In fact, a morphine overdose can be quite dangerous. The specific effects of an overdose with morphine can vary, depending on a number of factors, including the morphine dosage and whether it was taken with any other medications or substances. 
Morphine overdose: Introduction. Morphine overdose: Morphine is a highly addictive drug used to treat pain. Excessive doses of the drug can result in various symptoms and even death in severe cases. More detailed information about the symptoms, causes, and treatments of Morphine overdose is available below
Morphine overdose is considered fatal because of affectation of the respiratory center of the brain. Morphine binds with other opiate receptors in the body that is found in most organs in the body, leading to variousmorphine overdose symptoms. Overdose Amount of Morphine. The lethal dose of morphine is 200 mg. In cases of hypersensitivity reactions to morphine 60 mg of morphine may already precipitate death. People with addiction to morphine can usually tolerate 3 grams of morphine a day. The duration of morphine effects is about 3 to 4 hours via subcutaneous and intravenous routes and 3 to 6 hours via the intramuscular route so these times are the most crucial for treatment of morphine overdose
In order not to intensify morphine side-effects and possible morphine overdose, the drug should not be used along with sedatives, antihistamines, alcohol, anesthetics, phenothiazines, tranquilizers, hypnotics and other narcotic and psychotropic drugs. Use with amitriptyline may also lead to amitriptyline overdose. Overdose Amount of Morphine. The lethal dose of morphine is 200 mg. In cases of hypersensitivity reactions to morphine 60 mg of morphine may already precipitate death. People with addiction to morphine can usually tolerate 3 grams of morphine a day. The duration of morphine effects is about 3 to 4 hours via subcutaneous and intravenous routes and 3 to 6 hours via the intramuscular route so these times are the most crucial for treatment of morph
The amount of morphine that can cause an overdose or death depends on what a person’s body is used to. It takes more morphine to cause an overdose in someone who is already taking morphine than in someone who has never had it before. Morphine and other opioids are given to control pain. When taking morphine for pain, the body may develop a tolerance for the morphine and so it takes more morphine to control the pain. Also, the pain may increase and the person needs increased morphine to control it. Don’t hesitate to ask the health care team to increase the dosage if someone is feeling pain.
Morphine overdose is especially dangerous because of increased side-effects than other narcotic analgesics. Morphine is not given to patients with respiratory depression because of additional respiratory compromise. Overdose Amount of Morphine. The lethal dose of morphine is 200 mg. In cases of hypersensitivity reactions to morphine 60 mg of morphine may already precipitate death. People with addiction to morphine can usually tolerate 3 grams of morphine a day. The duration of morphine effects is about 3 to 4 hours via subcutaneous and intravenous routes and 3 to 6 hours via the intramuscular route so these times are the most crucial for treatment of morphine overdo
Definition. Morphine is a very strong painkiller. Morphine overdose occurs when a person intentionally or accidentally takes too much of the medicine. This is for information only and not for use in the treatment or management of an actual poison exposure.