low-key. adj. 1. Having low intensity; restrained, as in style or quality; subdued. 2. Adj. 1. low-key-restrained in style or quality; a little masterpiece of low-keyed eloquence.
low-key. adj. 1. having a low intensity or tone. 2. restrained, subdued, or understated. 3. (Art Terms) (of a photograph, painting, etc) having a predominance of dark grey tones or dark colours with few highlights. Compare high-key. Adj. 1. low-key-restrained in style or quality; a little masterpiece of low-keyed eloquence.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: low key is used to describe doing things without drawing the attention of others. Generally used to mean that, not only does the person do things for reasons other than attention, but that he purposefully avoids attention when doing things. Urban Dictionary: low key http://www.urbandictionary.com/define.ph... to keep something low key: to not announce it; to have a quiet gathering; opposite of a large party or big group of people; Down Low Usually it means to keep somthing quiet and to only tell people who are cool enough to know or trustworthy.
Lowkey. Lowkey (Born Kareem Dennis, 23 May 1986) is a British musician, poet, playwright and political activist of English and Iraqi descent. He first came to fame through a series of mixtapes he released before he was 18. Kareem was born in London to an Iraqi mother and an English father. From the age of twelve he began to rap, initially imitating American rappers but soon using his own accent.The first time he went he introduced himself as Lowkey and was told there was already a regular there by that name; the two had a rap battle over the use of the name which Kareem won.
Low-key lighting is often used in product advertising. This camera is lit by soft box positioned above, with a white reflector to the front-left. Low-key photo portrait of a woman. Low-key lighting is a style of lighting for photography, film or television. It is a necessary element in creating a chiaroscuro effect. Traditional photographic lighting, three-point lighting uses a key light, a fill light, and a back light for illumination. The term low key is used in cinematography to refer to any scene with a high lighting ratio, especially if there is a predominance of shadowy areas. It tends to heighten the sense of alienation felt by the viewer, hence is commonly used in film noir and horror genres.
Top Definition. low key. to keep something low key: to not announce it; to have a quiet gathering; opposite of a large party or big group of people; not much emphasis, closely aligned with a normal night out doing the usual stuff. im going out tonight but it's pretty low key; i've gotta work tomorrow so tonight's going to be a low key event. From the age of twelve he began to rap, initially imitating American rappers but soon using his own accent.The first time he went he introduced himself as Lowkey and was told there was already a regular there by that name; the two had a rap battle over the use of the name which Kareem won.
Low key lighting has a higher lighting ratio, e.g., 8:1, than high-key lighting, which can approach 1:1. The term low key is used in cinematography to refer to any scene with a high lighting ratio, especially if there is a predominance of shadowy areas. It tends to heighten the sense of alienation felt by the viewer, hence is commonly used in film noir and horror genres.
LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. adjective. The definition of low key is someone or something that is relatively calm, placid or not full of excitement. 1  An example of a low key party is one where people sit around and quietly talk. 2  An example of a low key person is someone who doesn't get easily mad or show wild swings of emotion. The definition of low key is someone or something that is relatively calm, placid or not full of excitement. 1  An example of a low key party is one where people sit around and quietly talk