Chemotherapy usually is given in addition to other cancer treatments, such as surgery and radiation therapy. When given with other treatments, it is called adjuvant chemotherapy. An oncologist decides which chemotherapy drug or combination of drugs will work best for each patient. Most chemotherapy drugs interfere with the ability of cells to grow or multiply. Although these drugs affect all cells in the body, many useful treatments are most effective against rapidly growing cells. Cancer cells grow more quickly than most other body cells.
They include the antibodies which are monoclonal and there are the kinase inhibitors which cause abnormality in some types of cancer like gastrointestinal cancer or in myelogenous leukemia. Some chemotherapy drugs can be used for modulating the cell behavior without attacking the cells directly. The most important chemotherapy agents are the Alkylating agents. They are named so because they can add alkyl groups to the many electronegative groups under conditions which are present in some cells.
More than 50 chemotherapy drugs are currently available to treat cancer and many more are being tested for their ability to destroy cancer cells. Most chemotherapy drugs interfere with the ability of cells to grow or multiply. Although these drugs affect all cells in the body, many useful treatments are most effective against rapidly growing cells. Cancer cells grow more quickly than most other body cells.
An agent used to treat cancer administered in regimens of one or more cycles, combining two or more agents over a period of days to weeks. 
Chemotherapeutic Agents. Medical waste haulers and incineration firms that specifically handle chemotherapy waste routinely specify in their waste acceptance protocols that only paraphernalia such as tubing, gloves, gowns, and EMPTY vials, syringes, and IVs can be accepted for disposal. 
The main purpose of chemotherapy is to kill cancer cells. It usually is used to treat patients with cancer that has spread from the place in the body where it started (metastasized). Chemotherapy destroys cancer cells anywhere in the body. Most chemotherapy drugs interfere with the ability of cells to grow or multiply. Although these drugs affect all cells in the body, many useful treatments are most effective against rapidly growing cells. Cancer cells grow more quickly than most other body cells.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. This is a list of chemotherapeutic agents (also known as cytotoxic agents) that are known to be of use in chemotherapy for cancer. This list is organized by type of agent, although the subsections are not necessarily definitive and are subject to revision. Each drug is listed once (at present), though it might fall in more than one subsection. A full alphabetical listing is included after the categorical listing. The agents in this list are often combined into chemotherapy regimens for polychemotherapy (combination chemotherapy). For example, the CHOP regimen consists of cyclophosphamide, hydroxydaunorubicin (doxorubicin), vincristine (Oncovin), and prednisone
Chemotherapy. Chemotherapy (chemo) usually refers to the use of medicines or drugs to treat cancer. The thought of having chemotherapy frightens many people. But knowing what chemotherapy is, how it works, and what to expect can often help calm your fears. It can also give you a better sense of control over your cancer treatment. Today, there are many types of chemotherapy (chemo) that can be swallowed as a liquid, tablet, or capsule. Oral chemo is any drug you take by mouth to treat your cancer. Learn more about oral forms of chemo here.
Chemotherapy Agents. There is a large number of chemotherapeutic drugs and they are generally divided or classified into different categories, namely alkylating agents, antimetabolites, anti-tumour agents, anthracyclines, topoisomerase inhibitors, plant alkaloids. Some chemotherapy drugs can be used for modulating the cell behavior without attacking the cells directly. The most important chemotherapy agents are the Alkylating agents. They are named so because they can add alkyl groups to the many electronegative groups under conditions which are present in some cells.