That is, an actant may embody itself in a particular character (termed an acteur) or it may reside in the function of more than one character in respect of their common role in the story's underlying 'oppositional' structure. This model reveals the structural roles typically performed in story telling; such as hero, villain (opponent of hero), object (of quest), helper (of hero) and sender (who initiates the quest).. Each of these roles fulfill an integral component of the story, or, narrative.
As the term implies, the actor-network is the central concept in ANT. The term network is somewhat problematic in that it, as Latour notes, has a number of unwanted connotations. Firstly, it implies that what is described takes the shape of a network, which is not necessarily the case. Actor–network theory tries to explain how material–semiotic networks come together to act as a whole; the clusters of actors involved in creating meaning are both material and semiotic.
Summary: Actor-Network Theory is a framework and systematic way to consider the infrastructure surrounding technological achievements. Assigns agency to both human and non-human actors (e.g. artifacts). Originator: Michel Callon (1991) and Bruno Latour (1992); John Law; others. 
ANT explains a successful theory by understanding the combinations and interactions of elements that make it successful, rather than saying it is “true” and the others are “false”). However, it is distinguished from many other STS and sociological network theories for its distinct material-semiotic approach. Actor–network theory tries to explain how material–semiotic networks come together to act as a whole; the clusters of actors involved in creating meaning are both material and semiotic.
This use of the term network is very similar to Deleuze and Guattari's rhizomes; Latour even remarks tongue in cheek that he would have no objection to renaming ANT actant-rhizome ontology if it only had sounded better, which hints at Latour's uneasiness with the word theory. Actor–network theory tries to explain how material–semiotic networks come together to act as a whole; the clusters of actors involved in creating meaning are both material and semiotic.
Actor–network theory (ANT) is an approach to social theory and research, originating in the field of science studies, which treats objects as part of social networks. Actor–network theory tries to explain how material–semiotic networks come together to act as a whole; the clusters of actors involved in creating meaning are both material and semiotic.
To define these indicators, our team has applied the primary insights of actant network theory developed within the disciplines of Science and Technology Studies and the history of technology and science to create a pragmatic theory of technoscientific emergence. Within actant networks perhaps the primary type of traffic-the most common form of relationship-is the pro-duction and exchange of terminological information. In-deed, for human actors within such a network, their under-standing of the technology or field is generated by their consumption of this linguistic traffic.
Actor-Network theory is a way to understand the phenomena as distributed networks with interrelated nodes. It draws from emergence theory, computing, and other disciplines to understand both the nodes of the system and the lines of communication that allow for information flow between different nodes. Actor Network Theory was first proposed by sociologist Bruno Latour, Actor Network Theory, or ANT, has proven to be one of the most valiant theories of understanding how these different elements work together to produce techno-cultural phenomena.
In what they have called a network theory [Latour and Callon] have developed a vocabulary that does take the distinction between subjects and objects, the subjective and the objective, into consideration. What they call an actant, for example, is more than a human actor. Both humans and nonhumans may be actants. Actor Network Theory was first proposed by sociologist Bruno Latour, Actor Network Theory, or ANT, has proven to be one of the most valiant theories of understanding how these different elements work together to produce techno-cultural phenomena.
In narrative theory, actant is a term from the actantial model of semiotic analysis of narratives. The term also has uses in linguistics, sociology, computer programming theory, and astrology. This model reveals the structural roles typically performed in story telling; such as hero, villain (opponent of hero), object (of quest), helper (of hero) and sender (who initiates the quest).. Each of these roles fulfill an integral component of the story, or, narrative.