On the threshold or verge of a development or action: an actor on the cusp of becoming a star. 2. At the dividing line or border of two conditions or categories: an artist on the cusp between Victorianism and modernism. cusp. 1. a point or pointed end. 2. an anatomical point or prominence, as on the crown of a tooth or on a valve of the heart.
In the mathematical theory of singularities a cusp is a type of singular point of a curve. Cusps are local singularities in that they are not formed by self intersection points of the curve. The plane curve cusps are all diffeomorphic to one of the following forms: x 2 − y = 0, where k ≥ 1 is an integer. 1 An ordinary cusp is given by x 2 − y 3 = 0, i.e. the zero-level-set of a type A 2 -singularity. 2  Let f (x, y) be a smooth function of x and y and assume, for simplicity, that f (0,0) = 0. 3  Then a type A 2 -singularity of f at (0,0) can be characterised by:
A cusp is a point at which two branches of a curve meet such that the tangents of each branch are equal. The above plot shows the semicubical parabola curve, which has a cusp at the origin. 
(December 2007). In astrology, a cusp (from the Latin for spear or point) is the imaginary line that separates a pair of consecutive signs in the zodiac or houses in the horoscope. That point of view may consider the Sun to be on the cusp even when its centre is as much as two degrees away from the sign boundary. They may also call other objects (much less than half a degree in diameter) on the cusp despite no part of the object being in the adjacent sign.
A similar debate applies to cusps between houses. The majority of astrologers treat the Sun as always being in exactly one sign, and consider the Sun between signs, or in two at once interpretation of cusps to be a misinterpretation. That point of view may consider the Sun to be on the cusp even when its centre is as much as two degrees away from the sign boundary. They may also call other objects (much less than half a degree in diameter) on the cusp despite no part of the object being in the adjacent sign.
Medical Definition of CUSP. 1. : a point on the grinding surface of a tooth. 2. : a fold or flap of a cardiac valve. 
An ordinary cusp occurring as the caustic of light rays in the bottom of a teacup. 1  An ordinary cusp is given by x 2 − y 3 = 0, i.e. the zero-level-set of a type A 2 -singularity. 2  Let f (x, y) be a smooth function of x and y and assume, for simplicity, that f (0,0) = 0. 1 An ordinary cusp is given by x 2 − y 3 = 0, i.e. the zero-level-set of a type A 2 -singularity. 2  Let f (x, y) be a smooth function of x and y and assume, for simplicity, that f (0,0) = 0. 3  Then a type A 2 -singularity of f at (0,0) can be characterised by:
CUSP in combination with evidence-based clinical interventions has been proven to dramatically reduce CLABSI. It is a powerful, flexible model for safety improvement that is sustainable, and it is useful for preventing harm in multiple areas. CUSP is comprised of five basic steps: 1  Educate staff in the science of safety. 
cusp. Cusps of the atrioventricular (tricuspid) valve. semilunar cusp any of the semilunar segments of the aortic valve (having posterior, right, and left cusps) or the pulmonary valve (having anterior, right, and left cusps). (kŭsp). cusp. a pointed or rounded projection, such as on the crown of a tooth, or a segment of a cardiac valve. See also valvula. Carabelli cusp an accessory fifth cusp on the lingual surface of many maxillary first molars; it may be unilateral or bilateral and varies in size from person to person.
3 A point of transition between two different states: those on the cusp of adulthood. More example sentences. 1  He is also a black man coming-of-age on the cusp of two shockingly different decades, the 1950s and the 1960s. 2  It is one of rapid change, on the cusp of something new, different, and exciting. Example sentences. 1  This is measured from the Northern or Southern cusp of the Moon in the direction of the unlit part of the Moon. 2  With my 10X50 binoculars, we were able to see Saber's Beads on the lower cusp of the moon. 3  The moon's cusps point toward the stars Pollux and Castor.