Report Abuse. Earthy colors are those that resemble the colors of the outdoors. Some people mistakenly think that only browns, golds, rusts and oranges are earthy colors. But, some greens are also consider earth colors. In the traditional sense of the word, however, if someone says paint a picture using earthtones or earthy colors...they're typically looking for you to be using the brown, gold, rust and orange tone
Organic colors are welcome introductions in a bathroom, which can often feel cold and sterile. To warm the space, choose earthy reds and oranges, such as russet, bronze, and umber for paint and tile color. Green is red's complementary shade, so towels could be pine or sage. If possible, skip white fixtures and choose almond or biscuit instead. To give your living room a dressy dose of sophisticated earthy color, use rich and shimmery neutral shades like oyster or black pearl. For a semicasual look, the natural stone stacked around a fireplace surround will yield copper, pebble tan, and slate blue to pull into wall colors.
Noun. 1. earth color-a colored mineral used as a pigment. mineral-solid homogeneous inorganic substances occurring in nature having a definite chemical composition. sienna-an earth color containing ferric oxides; used as a pigment. Designed in concert with a resident committee, an interior color palette of soft. , warm browns and stained wood trim provide a comfortable, rich ambiance that encourages a positive and relaxing atmosphere for resident and staff interaction.
Earth tone is a color scheme that draws from a color palette of browns, tans, warm grays, and greens. 
There are some wonderful ancient earth pigments that are used to create useful colours for the palette. Classic colours include Raw Sienna, Burnt Sienna, Raw Umber, Burnt Umber and Indian Red. Equally, the cool brown Raw Umber becomes the rich deep brown Burnt Umber, but all these pigments are PBr7. Many of the colours can be created by mixing the 6 split primaries, but the pigments have characteristics that make them valuable for more than just their hue.
Burnt Sienna is an ancient colour, made by roasting Raw Sienna, so both colours are made with the pigment PBr 7. It is the most useful earth colour in the palette, as it combines with its opposite, Ultramarine, to form a range of blues, greys and browns (see below). Equally, the cool brown Raw Umber becomes the rich deep brown Burnt Umber, but all these pigments are PBr7. Many of the colours can be created by mixing the 6 split primaries, but the pigments have characteristics that make them valuable for more than just their hue.
Earthy Bedroom Colors. Earthy colors can also be soft and romantic, like mist gray and lavender, which are perfect for a bedroom space. For a frilly feminine look, use lavender as the wall color. For a more gender-neutral rendition, put mist gray on the walls. To give your living room a dressy dose of sophisticated earthy color, use rich and shimmery neutral shades like oyster or black pearl. For a semicasual look, the natural stone stacked around a fireplace surround will yield copper, pebble tan, and slate blue to pull into wall colors.
Earth colors are important in oil painting techniques for two reasons: chemical stability, and providing a natural basis (in terms of color). Imitations and natural earth pigments lie very close together-natural earth pigments are colored by iron oxydation, a process that's easily reproduced in a lab. Manufactured iron oxyde oil painting colors are very stable as well. Underpainting techniques are usually done with earth colors, because they provide the painting with a natural basis. Every earth color has it's own function, in this respect, which was developed through the ages. If you use one earth color and white, to tone your other (prismatic) oil painting colors, it connects the other colors and makes them look natural. The earth tone functions as a unifier. Earth colors are simple paints, and the cheapest ones will do just fine