Cook. This came from Firehouse Subs. I like the Hook & Ladder, but it's quite expensive (Around $5.50 for an 8 inch, and $7.50 for a 12 inch). I haven't tried this recipe out, but I brainstormed it up, so tell me if there's any problems. You can change the amount of or remove any ingredient to suit your tastes. Each serving = 1 medium sub
Hook & Ladder®. Smoked turkey breast, Virginia honey ham, and melted Monterey Jack, served Fully Involved. Fully Involved® – Loaded complete with mayo, deli mustard, lettuce, tomato, onion, and a kosher dill pickle on the side.
*Percent Daily Values are based on a 2000 calorie diet. Your daily values may be higher or lower depending on your calorie needs. 
Percent Daily Values are based on a 2000 calorie diet. Your daily values may be higher or lower depending on your calorie needs. There are 448 calories in a 1 sandwich serving of Firehouse Subs Hook & Ladder Light. Calorie breakdown: 32% fat, 43% carbs, 25% protein.
The nutritional information on a package gives a suggested serving size, but it doesn't tell the whole story about whether that amount of food is a healthy choice. A study from 10 countries found that the thinner a woman was, the more attractive she seemed. And it may have solved once and for all the question of why thin people are considered more attractive.
Percent Daily Values are based on a 2000 calorie diet. Your daily values may be higher or lower depending on your calorie needs. There are 690 calories in a 1 sandwich serving of Firehouse Subs Hook & Ladder Sub (Medium).
The Hook & Ladder Light, one of Firehouse Subs's new Hearty & Flavorful menu items, is just 450 calories. Back &nbsp Photo: 2 of 2&nbsp&nbsp Next. Firehouse Subs. Firehouse Subs' new Sriracha Beef sandwich is just 480 calories. Weighing in at 1,150 calories, Firehouse Subs’ signature “fully involved” Hook & Ladder large sub is a mouthful – and then some. 
Please note that nutrition values are estimated based on standard serving portions. Normal product and serving size variances may affect values within 10% +/-. If you have any questions about our nutrition calculator, please contact Nutritionix. Firehouse Subs does not consider soybean oil as an allergen. Firehouse Subs understands the importance of providing complete and accurate nutrition information to our customers. Because every customer uses nutrition information differently, we provide three ways to view our nutrition information.