Gordon College is strategically located in proximity of the cultural centers of education (Boston), finance (New York) and politics (Washington)—a region that sets the standard for the world. Boston also has a reputation as a leader in developing talent—which means greater opportunity for students who study here. By virtue of our location, Gordon College is connected with some of the most vibrant workplaces in the country. Boston is home to burgeoning biotech, finance, education and engineering industries—among many others—career paths that Gordon students can explore through a range of internships and educational partnerships.
Gordon, New South Wales. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Gordon is a suburb on the Upper North Shore of Sydney in the state of New South Wales, Australia 15 kilometres (9 mi) north-west of the Sydney Central Business District and is the administrative centre for the local government area of Ku-ring-gai Council. It is heritage-listed. Approximately two-thirds (66.2%) of the dwellings in Gordon are separate houses, 7.1% are semi-detached (mainly townhouses), and 26.4% are flats, units or apartments. The average household consists of 2.8 people.
LIVES WORTH LEADING®. Gordon College, one of the nation’s premier Christian colleges, is located near Boston and combines an exceptional education with an informed Christian faith. With more than 90 majors, minors, concentrations, pre-professional and interdisciplinary programs, Gordon fuses a top-flight liberal arts education with an informed Christian faith, while providing space for students to explore their unique callings.
Gordon has a tattoo of the late Houston. Gordon was present when Bobbi Kristina was found unconscious in her bathtub on January 31st, 2015, attempting to revive her with CPR. Best Known For: Gordon is known for his close relationship to the Houston family, as well as being boyfriend to Bobbi. Whitney helped raise Gordon from a young age, and many suspected that he and Bobbi were siblings, though Whitney never formally adopted Gordon, instead speculating that Bobbi Kristina and Gordon would fall in love one day.
Gordon Railway Station on the North Shore Line was built in 1888. Gordon Public School, now used as a library, was constructed in 1878 on the Pacific Highway, having been designed by George Mansfield. It is heritage-listed. Approximately two-thirds (66.2%) of the dwellings in Gordon are separate houses, 7.1% are semi-detached (mainly townhouses), and 26.4% are flats, units or apartments. The average household consists of 2.8 people.
The name 'Gordon' first appears as the name of the survey parish covering most of the upper north shore, assigned by the NSW Surveyor-General Sir Thomas Mitchell. It is heritage-listed. Approximately two-thirds (66.2%) of the dwellings in Gordon are separate houses, 7.1% are semi-detached (mainly townhouses), and 26.4% are flats, units or apartments. The average household consists of 2.8 people.
Gordon’s location provides a perfect vista to experience the beauty of New England on the ocean, the proximity to the nation’s most important cities and the potential for global access and opportunity. By virtue of our location, Gordon College is connected with some of the most vibrant workplaces in the country. Boston is home to burgeoning biotech, finance, education and engineering industries—among many others—career paths that Gordon students can explore through a range of internships and educational partnerships.
LIVES WORTH LEADING®. The Gordon Commission. This is the heart of our experience—to stretch the mind, deepen the faith and elevate the contribution that Gordon students and graduates make to the world around us. With more than 90 majors, minors, concentrations, pre-professional and interdisciplinary programs, Gordon fuses a top-flight liberal arts education with an informed Christian faith, while providing space for students to explore their unique callings.
Gordon is a city in Wilkinson County, Georgia, in the United States. As of the 2000 census, the city population was 2,152. 
Welcome to Fort Gordon. Fort Gordon is a large, multi-mission, multi-service military installation providing base services and support across a wide spectrum of training, operational and Soldier sustainment needs. 