by Earl F. Ziemke. The German invasion of Norway was a dramatically daring military operation. The decision to embark on the venture was made by Adolf Hitler as Chief of State and also (since December 1938) as Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces of the German Reich. Even though the occupation of Norway and Denmark had no significant effect on the outcome of the war, it established a milestone in the history of warfare by demonstrating the effective reach of modern military forces.
Norway was invaded by Nazi Germany on April 9th 1940. Hitler had issued the order for the invasion of Norway on March 1st under the code word “Weseruebung”. Weserübung the order also included the invasion and occupation Of. Denmark it was the start of war In Western – europe and an end to ‘The Phoney’. war
Denmark: The invasion of Denmark would create a staging area for operations in Norway. Furthermore, having control of Denmark would secure the Baltic Sea for Germany and the S … oviet Union (Germany had an alliance with the Soviet Union). Hitler claimed that they had to protect Scandinavia from Britain and its allies. But, the real reason was to safeguard a supple of Sweden's iron ore for the Germany's was fact … ories via the seaports of Norway and to give Germany and use of Denmark's and Norway's ports and airfields.
Operation Weseruebung weserübung was the code name For 'germany s assault On denmark And norway during The Second World war and the opening operation of The Norwegian. campaign Initially, the plan was to invade Norway and to gain control of Danish airfields by diplomatic means. But Hitler issued a new directive on 1 March that called for the invasion of both Norway and Denmark. This came at the insistence of the Luftwaffe to capture fighter bases and sites for air-warning stations.
The German decision to invade Norway was essentially, as with all major decisions in Nazi Germany, Hitler's. And he had several reasons. Firstly, was the importance of the Swedish iron ore in the far north of Sweden to the German war economy. 
The invasion of Norway 1940. Norway was invaded by Nazi Germany on April 9th 1940. Hitler had issued the order for the invasion of Norway on March 1st under the code word “Weseruebung”. Weserübung the order also included the invasion and occupation Of. denmark Hitler had issued the order for the invasion of Norway on March 1st under the code word “Weseruebung”. Weserübung the order also included the invasion and occupation Of. Denmark it was the start of war In Western – europe and an end to ‘The Phoney’. war
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The vast majority of German iron ore imports came from Sweden.However,as the Baltic was frozen during the Winter,these were shipped to Germany from Narvik in northern Norway,a port that remained ice free all year round. 
The German occupation of Norway began on 9 April 1940 after Nazi forces invaded the neutral Scandinavian country of Norway. Hitler garrisoned Norway with about 300,000 troops for the rest of the war. By occupying Norway, Hitler had ensured the protection of Germany's supply of iron ore from Sweden and had obtained naval and air bases with which to strike at Britain.
In the early morning of 9 April 1940 (Wesertag; Weser Day), Germany invaded Denmark and Norway, ostensibly as a preventive manoeuvre against a planned, and openly discussed, Franco-British occupation of Norway. Initially, the plan was to invade Norway and to gain control of Danish airfields by diplomatic means. But Hitler issued a new directive on 1 March that called for the invasion of both Norway and Denmark. This came at the insistence of the Luftwaffe to capture fighter bases and sites for air-warning stations.
It was in April of 1940 when Germany went on the attack again. On April 9, 1940 Germany invaded Norway and Denmark. Soon after that, they invaded the Netherlands, Belgium, and France. On June 22, 1940 Germany signed an agreement that gave them control of the Northern half of France. Up until this point in the war, the Soviet Union had been allied with Germany. 