A Supreme Court judge must be at least 30 years old, licensed to practice law in Missouri, a United States citizen for at least 15 years, and a qualified voter of the state for nine years preceding selection. From the Supreme Court of Missouri's inception in 1820 until 1850, the governor appointed judges to the Supreme Court with the advice and consent of the state senate. In 1851, the constitution was amended to require popular election of Supreme Court judges
Pursuant to the state’s constitution, the only judge in Missouri who is referred to as a “justice” is the chief justice of the Supreme Court. Other judges are referred to as “judge.” By tradition, the chief justice typically is elected on a rotating basis by a vote of all seven Supreme Court judges to a two-year term. The Supreme Court judges together govern the state’s judicial branch of government, led by the chief justice. From the Supreme Court of Missouri's inception in 1820 until 1850, the governor appointed judges to the Supreme Court with the advice and consent of the state senate. In 1851, the constitution was amended to require popular election of Supreme Court judges
All justices and judges, with the exception of judges of the probate courts, must be licensed to practice law in the state of Alabama. Election and Appointment. All justices and judges, with the exception of municipal court judges, are elected by the qualified voters of a respective court's jurisdiction for six-year terms. Judges of the municipal courts are not elected to office but are appointed by the governing body of the municipality.
How Judges Are Elected. Before justices and judges can be appointed or elected to their positions, they must meet certain basic requirements, including citizenship and residency. All but magisterial district judges must be members of the Bar of the Pennsylvania Supreme Court.
When there is a vacancy on the court, it is the job of the President to nominate a suitable candidate. The Senate must vote to confirm the candidate. If a simple majority approves the choice, then there is a new Supreme Court Justice. However, confirmation is never a foregone conclusion. When the Senate does not vote in favor of a candidate, the President must supply another nominee. While the Constitution stipulates qualifications for being President of the United States, it is silent as to qualifications for Supreme Court justices. Nonetheless, several preferred qualifications have emerged over the long history of the court.
As far as the Constitution is concerned, there are no educational requirements for Supreme Court justices (including the Chief Justice). In the real world, however, the curr … ent Supreme Court justices have at least a Bachelor's degree and three years of law school, culminating in a J.D. degree. 1 Distinguished accomplishments. 2  Required to be legal scholar. 3  While Article III of the Constitution does not specify the qualifications required of a Supreme Court Justice, or specify the size of the court, it does empower Congress to create legislation or make collective decisions that result in de facto requirements.
In order to become a Supreme Court Justice, the nominee must receive a simple majority (51 votes) of the Senate, unless a group chooses to filibuster, in which case a three-fifths (60) cloture vote is required to end the filibuster and complete the appointment. It is highly unlikely that a candidate will be rejected. 1 Distinguished accomplishments. 2  Required to be legal scholar. 3  While Article III of the Constitution does not specify the qualifications required of a Supreme Court Justice, or specify the size of the court, it does empower Congress to create legislation or make collective decisions that result in de facto requirements.
The only technical qualifications needed to be eligible for the Supreme Court are 12 years as a practicing lawyer or judge and five years in good standing with the bar; however, only the best and brightest legal minds are considered for Supreme Court appointments, and then there are the factors beyond anybody's control. 