Making it easier for you to find Conservatories in and around the UK Tip – If you are looking for Conservatories in and around the UK glass roofs are usually more expensive than polycarbonate but are much quieter in the rain – a situation worth considering in our climate! Design. Estimate. Get the BestQuote from suppliers. Your particular property and your intended use for the conservatory will largely determine the type of conservatory you will ultimately purchase. Our site will walk you through the options that are available and help you to design the type of conservatory that's best for you.
Posts: 1,627. We have a conservatory on our house and I personally wouldn't bother. Our's is about 12 foot by 15 foot, all glass and I estimate cost the previous owners at least 15K. It is virtually unusable for most of the year as it is too cold in winter and too hot in summer.
Conservatory Average Cost. The cost of a conservatory varies widely depending on the design, local labor and material costs, and other factors. Before you begin conservatory construction, check with the local planning department to find out what permits you may need. 1  Conservatory costs start at around $7,500 to $15,000. 2  The average cost of a conservatory is $10,000 to $30,000. 3  A conservatory could cost as much as $40,000 to $80,000 or more. 
Honest Jon's Conservatories. This is NOT a quote, it is an estimate of the cost of building your conservatory based upon average price data we have received. We will not sell you a conservatory. However we can help you find a conservatory supplier, just fill out the form and we will find you up to 5 quotes for a new conservatory. 
However it is also one of the most difficult ones to answer. This is because a whole range of different factors need to be borne in mind before you can hope to get an accurate cost on the type of conservatory you want. Conservatory prices vary, as there are a wealth of styles and qualities to choose from. Make sure you opt for a professional, reliable supplier (and fitter), to ensure your conservatory is built to last. Below is a rough guide of current conservatory prices for 2014. Victorian Conservatory. £3,000 (2000mm x 2000mm) – full height glass up to £13,000 (3m x 5.5m). It is important to choose the style that suits your home the best and this depends on the shape of your house and garden. Regency conservatories are one of the more popular choices, with their ridged roofs and gable ends.
Conservatory Prices. Our conservatory quote calculator allows you to calculate the cost of your conservatory online. Providing homeowners with a quick and efficient means of calculating their conservatory cost, our conservatory quote calculator has proven popular. In order to get a great conservatory deal, you will need to compare conservatory prices. The first quote you receive might not necessarily be the cheapest which is why we recommend that all our customers take at least three quotes.
Different Conservatory Costs and Prices. As your conservatory cost is dependent on your specifications, you are likely to encounter varying prices from companies. In order to get a price you are comfortable with, you must first compare different quotations. Unfortunately, it is not a case of one price for all. Some cost as little as £5000. And other can cost upwards of £25000. Each conservatory will concur different costs. Conservatory costs in 2015 are likely to depend on a number of factors. This includes size, design, build and energy efficiency
Size will have a significant bearing on the overall cost of your conservatory. It stands to reason that one measuring 3 metres by 2 metres will be cheaper to construct than a conservatory measuring 5 metres by 4 metres. Victorian Conservatory. £3,000 (2000mm x 2000mm) – full height glass up to £13,000 (3m x 5.5m). It is important to choose the style that suits your home the best and this depends on the shape of your house and garden. Regency conservatories are one of the more popular choices, with their ridged roofs and gable ends.