Baked Cod. Depending on the temperature of the oven and the size of the cod, it should take about fifteen minutes to bake code. Instead of relying on timing, you should learn how to judge when your fish is done. Cod, like most fish, can be checked for doneness by using a fork or knife to gently prod the fish. 
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. Drizzle bottom of baking dish with 1/2 tbsp. of olive oil. Rub one cod fillet with 1/2 tbsp. of olive oil, minced garlic, lemon zest and salt and pepper, to taste. Place cod in oiled baking dish and bake for 12 to 15 minutes, or until opaque.
1 Preheat oven to 400°F Line your pan with aluminum foil and lightly brush with olive oil, or use a bit of cooking spray. 2  Combine parsley, garlic, lemon zest, and coarse salt on the cutting board. 3  Finely chop, then combine with the breadcrumbs in a shallow plate. 4  Brush top of each fillet with olive oil. 1 Brush top of each fillet with olive oil. 2  Press fillet into the crumb mixture. 3  Place fillets in baking dish, crust-side up. 4  Bake until firm, about 12-15 minutes, depending on the thickness of the fish. 5  Serve with lemon wedges.
Preheat your oven to 350ºF/180ºC and prepare your pan. Get out a baking dish and line it with parchment paper so the cod do not stick to the bottom while cooking. 3. Lightly season both sides of the fish with salt and pepper. Mix 1-2 teaspoons of salt and pepper in a small bowl and apply this to both sides of the fish, sprinkling it on top. There is no right amount to use, but when in doubt go light -- you can always add more before serving. Place the fillets in the baking dish when you are done
Place the cod on a foil-lined baking sheet or a glass baking dish that’s sprayed with cooking spray. Brush the glaze on top of the cod and bake it in an oven that you've preheated to 400 F or 425 F for approximately 8 to 10 minutes, until the fish is opaque and flaky and the glaze is slightly thick and bubbling. Kate Van Vleck/Demand Media. With Potatoes and Vegetables.
Directions. 1  Preheat oven to 400°F Line your pan with aluminum foil and lightly brush with olive oil, or use a bit of cooking spray. 2  Combine parsley, garlic, lemon zest, and coarse salt on the cutting board. 3  Finely chop, then combine with the breadcrumbs in a shallow plate. 1 Brush top of each fillet with olive oil. 2  Press fillet into the crumb mixture. 3  Place fillets in baking dish, crust-side up. 4  Bake until firm, about 12-15 minutes, depending on the thickness of the fish. 5  Serve with lemon wedges.
Directions. 1  Put a baking dish in the oven and preheat it to 400 degrees. 2  Take 8 sheets of foil, each about 18 inches long. 3  Placed one piece on top of the other, making 4 packages. 1 Put a baking dish in the oven and preheat it to 400 degrees. 2  Take 8 sheets of foil, each about 18 inches long. 3  Placed one piece on top of the other, making 4 packages. 4  Generously rub the fish with some of the olive oil. 5  Season with salt and pepper; put it on a piece of foil
Place fillets on a spray-coated baking sheet; bake for 5 minutes. Remove from oven. Baste cod fillets with olive oil mixture. Bake an additional 7 to 8 minutes for frozen cod or 3 to 5 minutes for fresh/thawed fish, adjusting cook time for smaller fillets. Bake just until fish is opaque throughout.