Replacement Headlight Assembly parts and accessories. Take a look at our selection of Replacement Headlight Assembly products. We offer an industry leading 30-day Guarantee so that you can Shop with confidence! Select from the products or categories below to narrow the selection in Replacement Headlight Assembly. Or give us the make, model, and year of your vehicle for a more customized list
A common misdiagnosis for the replacement of a headlight assembly is a shot headlight bulb. You do not have to replace the full headlight assembly to replace the bulb. A bulb is a cheap and simple DIY repair that should not take more than 20 mins and $10-$75. The full cost of repairing or replacing a headlight assembly cannot be accurately estimated without knowing the make and model of the car. The headlight assembly replacement cost really varies on which vehicle you have and what kind of lighting system you have (Halogen, HID or LED).
Factory Headlights by Replace®. You need your headlights to be functional for safe driving, to see the road and be seen by other drivers. Don't drive with a damaged or non-functional headlight and endanger yourself and your passengers because of the high cost of a replacement. A Replace Headlight is a direct replacement for the original equipment (OE) part but costs much less. You get OE quality without the OE price. For much less cash than the factory unit, you get a replacement headlight that is identical to OE in every way; same quality, same method of installation. A Replace headlight isn't some cheap universal fit part that will require extensive modifications to your vehicle for fitment.
Report Abuse. I think it's going to be expensive. The headlights now come as complete assemblies that you have to replace entirely in 1 go. On parts.com the headlight assembly costs $763.10, and this is a discount from $1073 MSRP. Then you need to add on the labor to switch it out. http://www.parts.com/oemcatalog/index.cf... Best Answer: The full assembly (with bulbs) around $300 used. Without bulbs maybe $200. If you can find the lens only probably around 50 bucks, though you'll have to install it correctly.
Most new cars come equipped with headlight bulbs instead of the whole headlamp units, which means you can simply replace the bulb. Some cars have four bulbs in the front (two for high beams and two for low); other cars only have two bulbs (each bulb can provide both high and low beam). Also, most new cars have separate fuses for each headlamp. Before changing the bulb, the mechanic should inspect the fuse for that particular
Some vehicles use HID (High Intensity Discharge) headlights. These headlights use several components to produce a very bright light. The bulbs for these systems can cost over $100. Please confirm the type of system you have installed on your vehicle prior to booking an appointment. Some cars have four bulbs in the front (two for high beams and two for low); other cars only have two bulbs (each bulb can provide both high and low beam). Also, most new cars have separate fuses for each headlamp.
Replace has the answer with a quality, low cost headlight. For much less cash than the factory unit, you get a replacement headlight that is identical to OE in every way; same quality, same method of installation. A Replace headlight isn't some cheap universal fit part that will require extensive modifications to your vehicle for fitment.
Parts: $82 - $100. The average cost for a headlamp bulb replacement is between $130 to $162. Labor costs are estimated between $48 to $62 while parts are priced between $82 to $100. Get a personalized estimate based on your location and specific car. Estimate does not include taxes and fees. Learn more about Headlamp Bulb Replacement. This is a national average for all makes and models, but you can make it more accurate by adding your car info and ZIP. This is a national average for all makes and models, but you can make it more accurate by adding your car info and ZIP.