The knee has 4 main LIGAMENTS that stabilise the knee. The Anterior Cruciate Ligament (ACL) is one of the two 'crossing' ligaments within the knee. It attaches to the back of the thigh bone and the shin bone at the front and prevents excessive forward movement of the shin on the thigh bone. It also controls the knee during twisting or rotational movements. 
There are four ligaments in the knee that are prone to injury: 1  Mentioned above, the anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) is one of the two major ligaments in the knee. 2  It connects the thigh bone to the shin bone in the knee. 3  ACL injuries are a common cause of disability in the knee. An ACL injury -- or other ligament injury -- is sometimes hard to diagnose. Symptoms of a knee ligament injury are: 1  Pain, often sudden and severe. 2  A loud pop or snap during the injury. 3  Swelling. 4  A feeling of looseness in the joint. 5  Inability to put weight on the point without pain. 6  1.
The anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) is one of a pair of cruciate ligaments (the other being the posterior cruciate ligament) in the human knee. They are also called cruciform ligaments as they are arranged in a crossed formation. Structure [edit]. The ACL originates from deep within the notch of the distal femur. Its proximal fibers fan out along the medial wall of the lateral femoral condyle. There are two bundles of the ACL—the anteromedial and the posterolateral, named according to where the bundles insert into the tibial plateau.
1 Mentioned above, the anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) is one of the two major ligaments in the knee. 2  It connects the thigh bone to the shin bone in the knee. 3  ACL injuries are a common cause of disability in the knee. An ACL injury -- or other ligament injury -- is sometimes hard to diagnose. Symptoms of a knee ligament injury are: 1  Pain, often sudden and severe. 2  A loud pop or snap during the injury. 3  Swelling. 4  A feeling of looseness in the joint. 5  Inability to put weight on the point without pain. 6  1.
ACL stands for anterior cruciate ligament. It is one of two ligaments in the center of the knee (the other is the PCL), which helps connect the femur to the tibia. ACL surgery repairs tearing and moves the knee back to its normal range of movement. 1  Grade I-Minor trauma or sprain to ligament. 2  Grade II-More severe trauma or partial tear.. 3  Grade III-Severe trauma to the ligament, which completely tears all the ligament's fibers.
A. An anterior cruciate ligament, or ACL, injury is a tear in one of the knee ligaments that joins the upper leg bone with the lower leg bone. The ACL keeps the knee stable. Injuries range from mild, such as a small tear, to severe, such as when the ligament tears completely or when the ligament and part of the bone separate from the rest of the bone. Without treatment, the injured ACL is less able to control knee movement, and the bones are more likely to rub against each other
Topic Overview. An anterior cruciate ligament, or ACL, injury is a tear in one of the knee ligaments that joins the upper leg bone with the lower leg bone. The ACL keeps the knee stable. Injuries range from mild, such as a small tear, to severe, such as when the ligament tears completely or when the ligament and part of the bone separate from the rest of the bone. Without treatment, the injured ACL is less able to control knee movement, and the bones are more likely to rub against each other
One of the most common knee injuries is an anterior cruciate ligament sprain or tear. Athletes who participate in high demand sports like soccer, football, and basketball are more likely to injure their anterior cruciate ligaments. They cross each other to form an X with the anterior cruciate ligament in front and the posterior cruciate ligament in back. The cruciate ligaments control the back and forth motion of your knee. The anterior cruciate ligament runs diagonally in the middle of the knee.
Top of page. Description. About half of all injuries to the anterior cruciate ligament occur along with damage to other structures in the knee, such as articular cartilage, meniscus, or other ligaments. Injured ligaments are considered sprains and are graded on a severity scale. Grade 1 Sprains. They cross each other to form an X with the anterior cruciate ligament in front and the posterior cruciate ligament in back. The cruciate ligaments control the back and forth motion of your knee. The anterior cruciate ligament runs diagonally in the middle of the knee.
The anterior cruciate ligament is one of the four main ligaments of the knee, and the ACL provides 85% of the restraining force to anterior tibial displacement at 30 degrees and 90 degrees of knee flexion. Structure [edit]. The ACL originates from deep within the notch of the distal femur. Its proximal fibers fan out along the medial wall of the lateral femoral condyle. There are two bundles of the ACL—the anteromedial and the posterolateral, named according to where the bundles insert into the tibial plateau.