Spoken corpus is usually in the form of audio recordings. A corpus may be open or closed. An open corpus is one which does not claim to contain all data from a specific area while a closed corpus does claim to contain all or nearly all data from a particular field. Historical corpora, for example, are closed as there can be no further input to an area.
A corpus may contain texts in a single language (monolingual corpus) or text data in multiple languages (multilingual corpus). Multilingual corpora that have been specially formatted for side-by-side comparison are called aligned parallel corpora. There are two main types of parallel corpora which contain texts in two languages. In a translation corpus, the texts in one language are translations of texts in the other language
cor•pus. 1. a large or complete collection of writings: the entire corpus of Old English poetry. 2. the body of a person or animal, esp. when dead. 3. a. a mass of body tissue that has a specialized function. 
cor•pus. 1. a large or complete collection of writings: the entire corpus of Old English poetry. 2. the body of a person or animal, esp. when dead. 3. a. a mass of body tissue that has a specialized function. b. the main part of a bodily organ.
Corpus is a large collection of texts. It is a body of written or spoken material upon which a linguistic analysis is based. The plural form of corpus is corpora. Some popular corpora are British National Corpus (BNC), COBUILD/Birmingham Corpus, IBM/Lancaster Spoken English Corpus. Monolingual corpora represent only one language while bilingual corpora represent two languages. An open corpus is one which does not claim to contain all data from a specific area while a closed corpus does claim to contain all or nearly all data from a particular field. Historical corpora, for example, are closed as there can be no further input to an area.
The Brown Corpus has also spawned a number of similarly structured corpora: the LOB Corpus (1960s British English), Kolhapur (Indian English), Wellington (New Zealand English), Australian Corpus of English (Australian English), the Frown Corpus (early 1990s American English), and the FLOB Corpus (1990s British English). Most lexical corpora today are part-of-speech-tagged (POS-tagged). However even corpus linguists who work with 'unannotated plain text' inevitably apply some method to isolate salient terms. In such situations annotation and abstraction are combined in a lexical search.
In linguistics, a corpus (plural corpora) or text corpus is a large and structured set of texts (nowadays usually electronically stored and processed). Multilingual corpora that have been specially formatted for side-by-side comparison are called aligned parallel corpora. There are two main types of parallel corpora which contain texts in two languages.
Since corpus linguistics involves the use of large corpora that consist of millions or sometimes even billion words, it relies heavily on the use of computers to determine what rules govern the language and what patters (grammatical or lexical for instance) occur. What Corpus Linguistics Does. 1  Gives an access to naturalistic linguistic information. 2  As mentioned before, corpora consist of “real word” texts which are mostly a product of real life situations. 3  This makes corpora a valuable research source for dialectology, sociolinguistics and stylistics.
[ Latin, Body, aggregate, or mass. ]. Corpus might be used to mean a human body, or a body or group of laws. The term is used often in Civil Law to denote a substantial or positive fact, as opposed to one that is ambiguous. The corpus of a trust is the sum of money or property that is set aside to produce income for a named beneficiary. In the law of estates, the corpus of an estate is the amount of property left when an individual dies. Corpus juris means a body of law or a body of the law
Corpus spongiosum penis. In male anatomy, the corpus spongiosum of penis is a mass of erectile tissue that lies along the underside of the penis and is located below the pair of corpus cavernosa, which contain 90 percent of the blood volume during a normal erection. It is a smaller region compared to either of the identical corpus cavernosa. 