KNOW YOUR HEPATITIS A, B AND C. Hepatitis literally means the inflammation of the liver. It is usually caused by a virus, although alcohol excess can also be to blame. The most common types of liver inflammation and infection are Hepatitis A, B and C... Hepatitis A is spread by eating contaminated food or drinking water. It's most common in countries with poor hygiene standards. There is a vaccine. Hepatitis B is usually passed on by exposure to infected blood.
Hepatitis A. By John W. Wood. Hepatitis A is referred to as one of the oldest diseases known to humankind by the World Health Organization (WHO) (1). HAV was first discovered in 1973 by Steven M. Feinstone as a nonenvoloped, spherical, positive stranded RNA virus (1). HAV was an unidentified viral disease prior to this discovery. Hepatitis A is a disease caused by infection from the hepatitis A virus (HAV) (1, 5, 8). HAV has been called epidemic hepatitis, epidemic jaundice, infectious hepatitis, catarrhal jaundice, HA and type A hepatitis in the past according to the WHO (1). The term hepatitis refers to having inflammation of the liver
Hepatitis B Vaccine The hepatitis B virus was discovered in 1965, and by 1970 diagnostic tests were available for routine screening of blood donors to prevent this type of transfusion-transmitted hepatitis. 
History and Development of Flu Vaccines. In 1933, researchers discovered that viruses (influenza virus types A, B, and rarely C) cause influenza (flu). Prior to 1933, a bacterium named Haemophilus was thought to cause the flu. In 1938, Jonas Salk and Thomas Francis developed the first vaccine against flu viruses.
Hepatitis A vaccine is a vaccine against the hepatitis A virus. The first successful vaccine against it was invented by Maurice Hilleman at Merck. The vaccine protects against the virus in more than 95% of cases and provides protection from the virus for at least fifteen years. There are two types of vaccines: one type contains inactivated hepatitis A virus, the other contains a live but attenuated virus.
In the early 1970s, the cause of infectious hepatitis was found and named the Hepatitis A virus (HAV). In 1989 hepatitis C virus (HCV) was isolated. Unfortunately, there is no vaccine for hepatitis C, but in 80% of cases, carriers who complete a treatment course can be cured. In 1990 hepatitis E virus (HEV) and in 1995, Hepatitis G virus (HGV), were identified. The breakthrough understanding of hepatitis came in 1963 when Dr Baruch Blumberg discovered an antigen that detected the presence of hepatitis B (HBV) in blood samples. At the time, Dr Blumberg was actually researching the genetics of disease susceptibility.
View. comments. The scientist who discovered hepatitis C in 1989 says he has now created a vaccine against the liver-destroying virus. Michael Houghton, from the University of Alberta, said the vaccine was developed from a single strain but is effective against all known strains of the disease. Dr Houghton started working on the project 10 years ago while he was working for the drug company Novartis. Dr Houghton (left) discovered hepatitis C in 1989. Hepatitis A is spread by eating contaminated food or drinking water. It's most common in countries with poor hygiene standards. There is a vaccine. Hepatitis B is usually passed on by exposure to infected blood.
Blumberg and colleagues invented the vaccine for hepatitis B in 1969, but it wasn’t until 1981 that it was developed by Merck from the blood of hepatitis B patients and licensed by the FDA. P&S alum Baruch Blumberg set a new standard for excellence. A P&S graduate whose love of travel led to his invention of the hepatitis B vaccine, and a Nobel prize, Baruch Blumberg died of an apparent heart attack on April 5, after giving a speech at NASA Ames Research Center in Mountain View, California.
Discovery of Hepatitis C Virus. The Hepatitis C virus was discovered by scientists at CDC, NIH and industry. Following the discovery, the Hepatitis C virus was identified as the cause of nearly all cases of non-A, non-B Hepatitis in the United States. 2014 marks the 25th anniversary of the discovery of the Hepatitis C virus. Since the virus was discovered in 1989, significant public health and research advances have led to great progress in curbing new infections and developing life-saving treatment options.