1 Check the temperature during the first door opening after not using the fridge for 8 hours or more (such as overnight). 2  Freezer: put thermometer between two bags of vegetables and as above check after 8 hours or more.
How it Works: If the freezer temperature is above 10 degrees Fahrenheit (-12C), the ice maker will not produce ice cubes efficiently. The freezer temperature should be set between 0 and 5 degrees Fahrenheit (-18 to -15C) for the ice maker to work properly.
Refrigerators should operate between 36 and 45 degrees Fahrenheit. The optimum temperature your refrigerator should be set at is 40 degrees Fahrenheit. Refrigerators set at lower temperatures risk freezing some items, especially those closer to fan.
However, most recommend that a freezer's temperature should be maintained cold enough to keep ice cream frozen brick-solid. Ice cream … freezes at about 5°F (-15°C). Therefore, it is recommended that a freezer's temperature be maintained at 0°F (-17°C).
1 Fridge: put the thermometer in a glass of water. 2  Check the temperature during the first door opening after not using the fridge for 8 hours or more (such as overnight). 3  Freezer: put thermometer between two bags of vegetables and as above check after 8 hours or more.
1 Keep the refrigerator temperature at or below 40° F (4° C). 2  The freezer temperature should be 0° F (-18° C). 3  Check temperatures periodically. 4  Appliance thermometers are the best way of knowing these temperatures and are generally inexpensive.
Temperatures between 40 and 45 degrees Fahrenheit give certain foods a higher risk of spoiling. The freezer temperatures should be between -10 to 10 degrees Fahrenheit. The optimum temperature your freezer should be set at is between 0 and 5 degrees Fahrenheit. Visit the AP Wagner Appliance Repair Library for additional information on refrigerator and freezer temperature questions.
To measure the temperature: 1  Fridge: put the thermometer in a glass of water. 2  Check the temperature during the first door opening after not using the fridge for 8 hours or more (such as overnight). 3  Freezer: put thermometer between two bags of vegetables and as above check after 8 hours or more.