The Oxford English Dictionary does not commit to any particular etymology for the word. It suggests it may mean a lout or booby, but also says origin uncertain. The OED currently states the first use in English was in 1756. Hence, pumpernickel is described as the devil's fart, a definition accepted by the Snopes International Language Database, the publisher Random House, and by some English language dictionaries, including the Merriam-Webster Dictionary. The American Heritage Dictionary adds so named from being hard to digest.
Westphalia is a State in Germany. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. Pumpernickel is a bread originated from the Westphalian region of Germany, the traditional is made of only rye flour, is square with coarse grain texture and slightly sweet. Etymology : Like many german words they put two or three together to make a new word. More about Rye. However Rye has very little gluten so it is very hard to get any structure in your bread, and even shape it. Very few breads are made only with Rye flour. The Traditional Pumpernickel is made from only coarse rye grains and dark rye flour, which is coarse ground rye. A substantial starter is needed so a sourdough taking a few days to rev up is used. Pumpernickel made the Westphalian way is baked for 16 to 20 hours in a steam oven
Pumpernickel (English pronunciation: /ˈpʌmpərnɪkəl/ ; [ˈpʊmpɐˌnɪkəl]) is a typically heavy, slightly sweet rye bread traditionally made with coarsely ground rye. It is often made with a combination of rye flour and whole rye berries. At one time it was traditional peasant fare, but largely during the 20th century various forms became popular through delicatessens and supermarkets. Hence, pumpernickel is described as the devil's fart, a definition accepted by the Snopes International Language Database, the publisher Random House, and by some English language dictionaries, including the Merriam-Webster Dictionary. The American Heritage Dictionary adds so named from being hard to digest.
Dear Straight Dope: Over the years I've heard two origins for the word 'pumpernickel.' Both seem reasonable enough, so it's hard to tell which might be the real one. One claims that it was Napoleon proclaiming the bread was only fit for his horse, Nicol. Or, in French, bon pour nicol. Hence, pumpernickel is the devil's fart, allegedly a reference to the bread's indigestible qualities and hence the effect it produced on those who consumed it. (www.snopes2.com/language/stor ies/pumper.htm). On the one hand you have to admire the Germans for their honesty.
Pumpernickel is a type of rye bread that is originally from Germany. The origin of the word is pretty entertaining: It's a German word that comes from pumpern, which means to to break wind and Nickel, a take on the name Nicholas, which is associated with goblins or devilish characters. Pumpernickel is made with pumpernickel flour, which is made from whole rye berries that have been coarsely ground. According to The Kitchn, pumpernickel differs from regular rye bread because while the former is made from the whole rye berry, the latter is made from the endosperm of the rye berry.
Pumpernickel is a traditional Westphalian whole-grain bread made from rye flour and coarse rye meal. According to the original German recipe, the bread is made mainly from rye meal, which is boiled for a number of hours to soften it. The dough is stuffed into a square bread form, then baked at 395°F (200°C). 
Although it is not known whether this and other early references refer to precisely the bread that came to be known as Pumpernickel, Westphalian pumpernickel is distinguished by use of coarse rye flour—rye meal and a very long baking period, which gives the bread its characteristic dark color. Hence, pumpernickel is described as the devil's fart, a definition accepted by the Snopes International Language Database, the publisher Random House, and by some English language dictionaries, including the Merriam-Webster Dictionary. The American Heritage Dictionary adds so named from being hard to digest.
Origins: A constant of folk etymologies seems to be that the odder a word sounds to us, the sillier the story we invent to explain its origins. Pumpernickel — the dark coarse sourdough bread we typically associate with Germany — is just such a funny-sounding name that surely it must have a funny story behind it.