A great party has an unexpected element that brings a personalized touch to the party. For example when planning the menu design a course that is in honor of the host – something that reminds them of home/childhood or a special life occasion.
By the way, please share what YOU think makes a great party in the comments section so we can add to the list! 1  Get organized – the pre-party prep work is worth it if you can have fun at your own party. 2  Delicious seasonal cocktails, and plenty of ‘em. 3  Visually appealing appetizers. 4  People might arrive starving!
I think what makes any party great is remembering it’s about the people NOT the food or the decor. True, it’s great to have a beautiful setting, but some of the best parties I’ve been to were in a tiny NYC apartment with nothing more than takeout served on the coffee table with everyone sitting on the floor.
Another detail for a great party is making sure everyone is set up to enjoy the party (and the food) equally. Allergies, dietary restrictions, etc…. Part of this is knowing who is on your guest list, so you can make sure you accommodate them.
Sometimes you invest lots of time, money and work into preparing a great party, and people are just sitting around and leaving early. Sometimes you 'organize' a party within 2 hours and the night will be remembered it for years.
Throwing a party is a great way to celebrate life and have fun with your good friends! Learn how to pick out your party theme, what kind of supplies (like food and drinks) you might need, and activities to do during your party.
By the way, please share what YOU think makes a great party in the comments section so we can add to the list! 1  Get organized – the pre-party prep work is worth it if you can have fun at your own party. 2  Delicious seasonal cocktails, and plenty of ‘em. 3  Visually appealing appetizers. 4  Lively, upbeat music in the background keeps people relaxed. 5  Lightin
When guests are excited to be there for the host and the vendors all work together to in a flawless execution, it’s a great event. Below, a few of my own ideas about what makes a party great. Top 5 elements that make a party GREAT! Number 5; Your waitstaff are ambassadors for your party. Do not skimp on the quality or number of staff, and add extra people for coat check and the bar. Don’t forget bathroom attendants.