Madagascar is home to an enormous variety of plant and animal life, and a number of species are unique to the island—including over 30 species of lemur, the fossa’s prey of choice. The elusive fossa is a solitary animal and spends its time both in the trees and on the ground. It is active at night and also during the day. Females give birth to an annual litter of two to four young, and adulthood is reached after about three years.
Until recently, scientists had mistaken the puma-like fossa for a primitive kind of cat. Size relative to a 6-ft (2-m) man: A relative of the mongoose, the fossa is unique to the forests of Madagascar, an African island in the Indian Ocean. Growing up to 6 feet (1.8 meters) long from nose to tail tip, and weighing up to 26 pounds (12 kilograms), the fossa is a slender-bodied catlike creature with little resemblance to its mongoose cousins. The elusive fossa is a solitary animal and spends its time both in the trees and on the ground. It is active at night and also during the day. Females give birth to an annual litter of two to four young, and adulthood is reached after about three years.
Like the majority of the animal and plant species that are found on the island of Madagascar, the Fossa is found nowhere else on Earth. They rely on dense, forested areas where there is not only an ample food source but also plenty of space where the Fossa can establish it's large territory. The Fossa is the largest land predator on the island of Madagascar with some individuals growing to nearly two meters in length from their snout to the tip of their long and slender tail.
The fossa (/ˈfɒsə/ or /ˈfuːsə/ ; Malagasy [ˈfusə̥] ; Cryptoprocta ferox) is a cat-like, carnivorous mammal endemic to Madagascar. It is a member of the Eupleridae, a family of carnivorans closely related to the mongoose family (Herpestidae). The fossa appears as a diminutive form of a large felid, such as a cougar, but with a slender body and muscular limbs, and a tail nearly as long as the rest of the body. It has a mongoose-like head, relatively longer than that of a cat, although with a muzzle that is broad and short, and with large but rounded ears.
Sadly like a number of the unique animal species found in Madagascar today though, the Fossa is incredibly rare and is now considered to be endangered in it's natural habitat primarily due to habitat loss. The Fossa is the largest land predator on the island of Madagascar with some individuals growing to nearly two meters in length from their snout to the tip of their long and slender tail.
Fossa. Fossas are the largest carnivores in Madagascar. Secretive and cat-like, these predators are well equipped for chasing down lemurs in the forest. They are famed for having some strange development, courtship and breeding traits
Those that are familiar with wildlife in Madagascar are familiar with the Fossa, though these animals are not well known by those from the rest of the world. The Fossa is a mammal and is thought to be most closely related to the mongoose. It was once thought that the Fossa was a strictly nocturnal animal, but this is no longer the case as studies have shown that they are active during the day time and night time hours. When they are active seems to depend entirely on the seasons and what prey are available. Habitat.
Fossa Classification and Evolution The Fossa is a medium-sized carnivore that is found exclusively on the island of Madagascar. The Fossa belongs to the Malagasy Carnivores group which are thought to have descended from Mongoose-like ancestors that arrived on Madagascar from Africa up to 24 million years ago. The Fossa is the largest land predator on the island of Madagascar with some individuals growing to nearly two meters in length from their snout to the tip of their long and slender tail.
Places where it's Found. The fossa is found in Madagascar. It is also found in forested areas and ranges from coastal lowlands to mountainous areas. The breeding age is about four years. They are found within the Ankarana and Analamera Special Reserves. In Madagascar that is their natural habitat and environmental place. They like places that have plants and eco-plantation it also like to jump in high leafy trees like big trees. The fossa population in Madagascar to be fewer than 2,500 individuals.