Stone sculpture is the result of forming 3-dimensional visually interesting objects from stone. It is an ancient activity where pieces of rough natural stone are shaped by the controlled removal of stone. Limestone and sandstone, at about 4 on the Mohs scale, are the only sedimentary stones commonly carved. Limestone comes in a popular oolitic variety, about twice as hard as alabaster, that is excellent for carving. The harder serpentines can also reach 4 on the Mohs scale.
own stone sculptor and carver. This site was launched in 1994, the very first website for an individual sculptor. Walter Arnold carving a self-portrait bust. By training first with the hammer and chisel and working by hand, I gained an intimate feel for the stone and a broad repertoire and vocabulary of technique. I specialize in hand-carving unique sculpture from natural stone and marble, on commission.. From fireplaces to full life-sized figures, large fountains, architectural reliefs, memorials, or small garden pieces, my extensive training allows me to carve virtually any project. I customize to meet your needs..
Split and merge into it. Answer by Libya. Confidence votes 11. A person who carves is called a sculptor, a sculptress, a carver, or a sculpturer. A sculptor is a person who shapes, molds or fashions wooden objects, stone or metal or any other material, like clay, to produce works of art or models. A sculptor is also a constellation (or a system of stars) in the Southern Hemisphere near Cetus and Phoenix. A sculpture is the actual work produced by the sculpto
Stone carving is an ancient activity where pieces of rough natural stone are shaped by the controlled removal of stone. Owing to the permanence of the material, stone work has survived which was created during our prehistory. Work carried out by paleolithic societies to create flint tools is more often referred to as knapping. Stone carving that is done to produce lettering is more often referred to as lettering. The process of removing stone from the earth is called mining or quarrying.
On the other side of the spectrum, pointing, is where carving has brought me today. I work for an artist assisting him in carving his sculptures in marble. The picture to the left shows the pointing machine set on the model and the stone in which the sculpture is being imposed is in the background. Stone Carving Today... In this article I am going to try to explain all the various types of stone carving that people are doing today. There are two methods used when carving stone. The 1st type is called direct carving. The other method is called pointing. Most people who carve stone use direct carving
The term Stone carving is one of the processes which may be used by an artist when creating a sculpture. The term also refers to the activity of masons in dressing stone blocks for use in architecture, building or civil engineering. Work carried out by paleolithic societies to create flint tools is more often referred to as knapping. Stone carving that is done to produce lettering is more often referred to as lettering. The process of removing stone from the earth is called mining or quarrying.
Carving stone is a type of sculpting. Stone is different from other mediums in that it's difficult to shape perfectly because of its density and unpredictability. Carving stone requires patience and planning. Use these steps as a stone-carving guide. 
When a customer comes to you, a Tombstone Carver, it is often during a time of grieving, so you need to show sensitivity as you help them create the phrase, layout, and artwork for the headstone. With a design in hand, you imprint the lines onto the marble, stone, or other material. 