Mycosis (plural: mycoses) is a fungal infection of animals, including humans. Mycoses are common and a variety of environmental and physiological conditions can contribute to the development of fungal diseases. 
Fungal Diseases Fungal diseases are called mycoses and those affecting humans can be divided into four groups based on the level of penetration into the body tissues. (view-How Common are Fungal Diseases) Superficial mycoses are caused by fungi that grow on the surface of the skin or hair. Fungal diseases are called mycoses and those affecting humans can be divided into four groups based on the level of penetration into the body tissues. (view-How Common are Fungal Diseases). 1 
1 Viruses cause about 60 % of disease outbreaks in animals and humans. 2  Examples of diseases in animals caused by viruses are rabies, Newcastle disease and three-day stiffsickness. 3  It is difficult to treat diseases caused by viruses because the viruses live inside animal cells. 1 Examples of diseases in animals caused by viruses are rabies, Newcastle disease and three-day stiffsickness. 2  It is difficult to treat diseases caused by viruses because the viruses live inside animal cells. 3  Therefore, any medicine that can kill the viruses will also harm the animals in which the viruses are present.
Most plant diseases are caused by fungi, bacteria, and viruses. Although the term disease is usually used only for the destruction of live plants, the action of dry rot and the rotting of harvested crops in storage or transport is similar to the rots of growing plants; both are caused by bacteria and fungi. 
Fungi cause many kinds of diseases in plants and animals. Diseases in humans caused by fungus infection range from skin disorders to serious illness. Fungal diseases like blastomycosis, coccidioidomycosis, and candidiasis in humans often attack the lungs. Thrush, a fungal disease of the throat, is found mainly in infants.
Fungal Infections of Human and Animals. Many fungal infections, or mycoses, of humans and animals affect only the outer layers of skin, and although they are sometimes difficult to cure, they are not considered dangerous. Athlete's foot and ringworm are among the common superficial fungal infections. 
These are the diseases caused by fungi that grow only on the surface of the skin and hair, i.e., the infection is confined to the outermost layers of skin, nail, and hair. These are the least harmful ones of all fungal infections, as they fail to penetrate the body of the host, and affect only the cells on the surface. Although many species of fungi are beneficial in some way or the other, there are certain species that can cause diseases in humans. General symptoms of such infestations include itching, straining, white patches, and burning on the skin. Skin Disorders Caused by Fungi.
Other fungi provide numerous drugs (such as penicillin and other antibiotics), foods like mushrooms, truffles and morels, and the bubbles in bread, champagne, and beer. Fungi also cause a number of plant and animal diseases: in humans, ringworm, athlete's foot, and several more serious diseases are caused by fungi. Because fungi are more chemically and genetically similar to animals than other organisms, this makes fungal diseases very difficult to treat. Plant diseases caused by fungi include rusts, smuts, and leaf, root, and stem rots, and may cause severe damage to crops. However, a number of fungi, in particular the yeasts, are important model organisms for studying problems in genetics and molecular biology.
Fungal diseases are often caused by fungi that are common in the environment. Fungi live outdoors in soil and on plants and trees as well as on many indoor surfaces and on human skin. Most fungi are not dangerous, but some types can be harmful to health. Mucormycosis – A rare infection caused by different fungi that belong to a group of fungi called Mucoromycotina. These fungi typically live in soil and in association with decaying organic matter, such as leaves, compost piles, or rotten wood. 1  Symptoms.
Pathogenic fungi are fungi that cause disease in humans or other organisms. The study of pathogenic fungi is referred to as  medical mycology .. Although fungi are eukaryotic organisms, many pathogenic fungi are also microorganisms. Fungicides, such as ziram are used to protect plants against fungal infections. 