Eggplant is a very good source of dietary fiber, vitamin B1, and copper. It is a good source of manganese, vitamin B6, niacin, potassium, folate, and vitamin K. Eggplant also contains phytonutrients such as nasunin and chlorogenic acid. For an in-depth nutritional profile click here: Eggplant.
Eggplant also contains a large quantity of minerals such as phosphorous, calcium, magnesium, and potassium. These minerals help prevent health problems such as arthritis, osteoporosis, and heart disease. Eggplant is also a great source of dietary fiber. Dietary fiber protects against colon cancer, keeps the digestive system working properly, and keeps the stomach feeling full after a meal.
Thiamine. Thiamine is a water-soluble B vitamin. As a water-soluble vitamin, it is not stored in the body and without adequate intakes you can become depleted quickly, according to U.S. National Medical Library and National Institutes of Health MedlinePlus. Manganese. Manganese is a trace mineral. It is needed to help form connective tissue, bones, blood clotting factors and sex hormones, according to the University of Maryland Medical Center. It is also a component of the antioxidant superoxide dismutase.
Health Benefits. In addition to featuring a host of vitamins and minerals, eggplant also contains important phytonutrients, many which have antioxidant activity. Phytonutrients contained in eggplant include phenolic compounds, such caffeic and chlorogenic acid, and flavonoids, such as nasunin. It is a good source of manganese, vitamin B6, niacin, potassium, folate, and vitamin K. Eggplant also contains phytonutrients such as nasunin and chlorogenic acid. For an in-depth nutritional profile click here: Eggplant.
(NaturalNews) Eggplant contains many vitamins and minerals that are beneficial to one's health. Eggplants are not as popular as other vegetables such as potatoes, tomatoes, and lettuce, but they are nutritious and therefore good for one's health. These minerals help prevent health problems such as arthritis, osteoporosis, and heart disease. Eggplant is also a great source of dietary fiber. Dietary fiber protects against colon cancer, keeps the digestive system working properly, and keeps the stomach feeling full after a meal.
In addition to its plentiful vitamins and minerals – such as dietary fiber, potassium, manganese, copper and thiamin (vitamin B1), vitamin B6, folate, magnesium and niacin – eggplant has received some special attention for its phytonutrient content. 
Eggplant grows from a vine similar to a tomato and is a member of the nightshade family of plants. Eggplant is low in calorie, with only 35 calories per cup, and high in fiber, vitamins, minerals and antioxidants, according to the USDA National Nutrient Database. Manganese. Manganese is a trace mineral. It is needed to help form connective tissue, bones, blood clotting factors and sex hormones, according to the University of Maryland Medical Center. It is also a component of the antioxidant superoxide dismutase.
A plus on the mineral side, eggplant delivers 21.4 mg of calcium, 13.0 mg of magnesium, 248 mg of potassium, and 22 mg of phosphorous per 100 grams (approx. 3-1/2 ounces). To boost the nutritional benefits, pair eggplant with other vegetables such as tomatoes, onions, and peppers. To keep the calories low in eggplant preparations, cook it without oil. Instead, use broth, wine, lemon juice, or vegetable juice for flavoring. Not a major source of protein or carbohydrates, eggplant only contains about 1 gram of protein and 7 grams of carbohydrates per one cup serving.
Keep the skin on the eggplant to receive 2.5 grams of dietary fiber. On the vitamin side, eggplants do contain trace amounts of Vitamin A, folacin, and Vitamin C, but the amounts are negligible. Don't give up on the eggplant, however, as it contains another antioxidant secret. To keep the calories low in eggplant preparations, cook it without oil. Instead, use broth, wine, lemon juice, or vegetable juice for flavoring. Not a major source of protein or carbohydrates, eggplant only contains about 1 gram of protein and 7 grams of carbohydrates per one cup serving.
Health Benefits. In addition to featuring a host of vitamins and minerals, eggplant also contains important phytonutrients, many which have antioxidant activity. Phytonutrients contained in eggplant include phenolic compounds, such caffeic and chlorogenic acid, and flavonoids, such as nasunin. 