Careful planning is required to successfully plant dwarf Alberta spruce trees since they are sensitive when young and will grow slowly if planted under unfavorable conditions. However, with a little foresight, the tree will prosper and eventually reach a mature height of 6 to 8 feet with a 4- to 5-foot spread. Harden-off the dwarf Alberta spruce for one week before planting it. Set it outdoors under high, light shade. Slowly acclimate it to direct sun over the course of five to seven days until it can stay in full sun for eight hours without showing signs of stress.
Dwarf Alberta spruce trees are classified as evergreen conifers. USDA Plant Hardiness Zones for Dwarf Alberta Spruce Trees: Dwarf Alberta spruce trees can be grown in zones 3-8. Characteristics: Dwarf Alberta spruce trees may eventually reach 12 feet in height, but only over a long period of time (growing just 2-4 inches per year). They have a classic Christmas tree shape. The green needles have a tight, densely-packed growth habit that gives dwarf Alberta spruce trees a fuzzy look.
Growth Habit. Alberta spruce is a relatively slow growing species of tree, attaining a mature height of 12 feet after about 50 years. The tree grows vertically at a rate of 3 inches per year, and much more slowly horizontally. Dwarf Alberta spruce trees spread about 5 feet laterally, over a period of many years.
The Dwarf Alberta Spruce typically grows to a height of 10 to 12 feet, but it is a slow growing tree. It will take more than 25 years to completely mature, making it a great decor when plotted, as it will not outgrow your porch, sunroom, or landscape anytime soon. Alberta spruce thrives in zones 3 through 8. A dwarf cultivar, 'Conica', is popular as a garden plant. Fast Growing Trees Nursery also carries elegant dwarf Alberta spruce spiral topiaries. Dwarf varieties are designed to be smaller than the parent tree, and are often used as vertical accent specimens within the landscape. Dwarf varieties are also suitable for growing in containers
3. Plant dwarf Alberta spruce in a bed with full sun exposure at the coast or under partial shade in hot inland areas. Choose a space with at least 3 to 4 feet of clearance from buildings and underground utility lines so the tree can spread without worry. Harden-off the dwarf Alberta spruce for one week before planting it. Set it outdoors under high, light shade. Slowly acclimate it to direct sun over the course of five to seven days until it can stay in full sun for eight hours without showing signs of stress.
Overview. Alberta spruce trees (Picea glauca Conica) are small dwarf trees that are characterized by their vibrant green, tight, dense foliage, which gives the trees a slightly fuzzy appearance. They are evergreen conifers that grow to a maximum of 4 to 6 feet in height. Alberta spruce trees can be grown in many regions of the United States (between USDA hardiness zones 2 and 8). They are very popular landscape trees. 
With its compact form and slow growth, Alberta Spruce (Picea glauca Conica) makes an excellent choice for a container garden. Also known as Dwarf Alberta Spruce, this conifer's mature size is 6 to 8 feet tall and 4 to 5 feet wide, but the tree can be trimmed to keep it smaller. Although the tree can be grown in the ground, it is often chosen as a focal container plant and trimmed into interesting spirals or tidy, inverted cones. 6. Water your Alberta Spruce when the soil below the layer of mulch feels dry to the touch. Give the tree enough water to moisten all the soil; once you see water coming out the container's drainage holes, you've added enough. In hot weather, water the tree daily.
Rate of growth is genetics, site conditions and weather. Dwarf Alberta Spruce (DAS) grows so slow that you hardy ever prune this shrub. Your typical DAS bought at the garden center is going to be 2-4' tall. It would take at least 10 years for that shrub to reach 4-6'. My neighbor has two DAS planted in his front yard. 