Subtract the total amount of taxes paid during the year from the net income before tax to obtain net income after taxes. In the example, the company paid $48,000 of taxes during the year. So, $198,000 minus $48,000 equals net income after taxes of $150,000.
Step 4. Subtract the total amount of taxes paid during the year from the net income before tax to obtain net income after taxes. In the example, the company paid $48,000 of taxes during the year. So, $198,000 minus $48,000 equals net income after taxes of $150,000.
1. A company's total earnings (or profit). Net income is calculated by taking revenues and adjusting for the cost of doing business, depreciation, interest, taxes and other expenses. This number is found on a company's income statement and is an important measure of how profitable the company is over a period of time.
DEFINITION of 'Net Income After Taxes-NIAT'. An accounting term, most often found in a company's annual report, that is meant to show the company's definitive bottom line for the accounting period.
#-ad_banner-#Total Revenue-Total Expenses = Net Income After Taxes. Net income after taxes is found on the last line of the income statement, which is why it's often referred to as the bottom line. Let's look at a hypothetical income statement for Company XYZ: for the year ended December 31, 2008.
profit for the year (or net income after taxes) / stockholders’ or shareholders’ equity. This is generally calculated over a year and expressed as a percentage, so a company that generated £100 worth of profit for the year for £1000 of equity has a ROE of 10%.
While the net income after taxes calculation is one of the most solid measures of a company's performance, numerous accounting scandals in recent years have proven it to be less than 100% reliable.
As a manager or an investor, it is important that you understand what net income, or net profit, is and where to find this information. You should also understand what effects taxes have on a company's profits. To do such, you can examine the net income before taxes and the net profit after taxes.