Report Abuse. If tightly sealed, and the fish whole (not fillet or refrigerated or frozen), 15 minutes ought to do. You may want to flip once. Remove from heat to avoid oversteaming and do not open until you are ready to serve. If fillet cooking, no more than 10 minutes. Both should be on high (not super high) heat
Step 5. Put the packet on the grill, seam-side up. Cook a thinner piece of fish -- under 1 inch thick -- for about 8 minutes, or thicker cuts for up to 10 minutes. Remove the fish from the grill and open the packet. Brush the fish with cooking oil or melted unsalted butter. Step 7. Seal the foil packet again and return the fish to the grill, seam-side down this time, to promote even cooking. Cook the fish for about another 8 to 10 minutes, just until the flesh is opaque all the way through.
If you are breading the fish, you can place them fully frozen in a pan and cover with a thick layer of bread crumbs and spices. 5. Cook for twice as long as you would fresh fish. You can cook frozen fish however you would normally cook fish, or look in the recipes section for ideas. Frozen fish can take twice as long to cook as fresh fish, but you're still saving time by skipping the thawing stage. Keep your fridge below 46ºF (8ºC) to keep your fish safe, and cook with 48 hours. 1  Frozen foods will produce water as the ice melts, so keep your fish in a container that can catch water. 2  While most fish will thaw within 8 hours, massive amounts of fish could take up to 24 hours.
If you are grilling, cook for 10 minutes on each side. To bake, place the packets on a baking sheet. Place them in the oven and cook about 15 minutes per inch of the filet. When the fish is opaque and the vegetables are tender, remove from heat. Allow the packets to stand for about 5 minutes before opening. Be careful of the hot steam when you open up the foil. Place the meal on a plate and enjoy! Thanks for watching.
Step 5. Cook the fillets for approximately 8 to 10 minutes, depending upon the thickness of your fillets and the number of fillets you're cooking. Remove the fish from your oven or grill and open the packages, then season the thawed fillets to your taste. Re-seal the packages and cook for another 8 to 10 minutes. 
Cooking. Use the indirect grilling method with a medium hot grill when cooking whole fish and thick fillets or steaks. 1  Place the fish skin side up on the grill grate over indirect heat area. 2  Do not place directly over the heat source. 3  Cook the fish for 10 minutes per inch of thickness. 1 Cook the fish for 4 to 6 minutes and then turn to grill on the other side for approximately same amount of time. 2  Insert the tip of a knife in thickest area of the fish to check for doneness. 3  The meat should be flakey and opaque in appearance.
Anyway, once the grill has reached the desired temperature, place the frozen salmon fillets inside and close the lid. Allow to cook for ten to thirteen minutes, depending on how thick your salmon is. Half-inch thick fillets should be done in eleven or twelve minutes. Every model of grill behaves differently. So test the fish by breaking a small area of it open during cooking, at preferably the thickest part of the fillet. 
A one inch steak at room temperature on a preheated, hot grill should cook 2 min a side for rare, 3.5 min a side for medium rare, 5 min a side for medium and so on.. add a min … ute and half for each degree of doneness. DON'T poke or cut the steak while cooking, you will dry it out. White, flaky fish (like cod or tilapia), you'll want grill for about … 5-7 minutes, turning once (I prefer to let it cook a little longer on the first side, so 4 minutes on one side and 2 on the other). Fish like salmon or swordfish steaks take about 10 minutes. Robin Harris.