Crown of thorns is the common name for the species Euphorbia milii. A member of the Euphorbiaceae family, it is one species among the over 2,000 species in the family. The genus Euphorbia, according to the GRIN website (APG III Taxonomic System) lists 528 species, subspecies, and varieties in the genus. The genus name Euphorbia was first published by Carolus Linnaeus in the first edition of Species Plantarum in 1753. However, it can be traced back as far as 79 AD to the Roman officer, Pliny the Elder, as it is mentioned in his book, Natural History of Plin
For the family commonly called euphorbias, see Euphorbiaceae. Euphorbia (spurge) is a very large and diverse genus of flowering plants in the spurge family (Euphorbiaceae). Sometimes in ordinary English, euphorbia is used to refer to the entire Euphorbiaceae family (as the type genus), not just to members of the genus. Euphorbia obesa. Several spurges are grown as garden plants, among them Poinsettia (E. pulcherrima) and the succulent E. trigona. E. pekinensis (Chinese: 大戟; pinyin: dajǐ) dàjǐ is used in Traditional chinese, medicine where it is regarded as one of the 50 fundamental. herbs
Euphorbia antiquorum is the type species for the genus Euphorbia. It was first described by Carl Linnaeus in 1753 in Species Plantarum. The plants share the feature of having a poisonous, milky, white latex-like sap, and unusual and unique kind of floral structures. Euphorbia obesa. Several spurges are grown as garden plants, among them Poinsettia (E. pulcherrima) and the succulent E. trigona. E. pekinensis (Chinese: 大戟; pinyin: dajǐ) dàjǐ is used in Traditional chinese, medicine where it is regarded as one of the 50 fundamental. herbs
Toxicity is documented in most members of the genus Euphorbia. Individuals sensitive to latex are known to have strong reactions, including dermatitis and anaphylaxis, to the latex exuded by this plant. Leaves are mainly 2-4 lobed and 4–7 cm long by 1.5–3 cm wide. Their contrast with the lower dark green leaves gives this euphorbia most of its common names. The stalk exudes a toxic milky white latex. The cyathia or false flowers, are located in clusters at the head of the stalk and are yellowish green.
Euphorbia heterophylla, also known under the common names of (Mexican) Fireplant, Painted Euphorbia, Japanese Poinsettia, Desert Poinsettia, Wild Poinsettia, Fire on the Mountain, Paintedleaf, Painted Spurge, Milkweed, and Kaliko Plant, is a plant belonging to the Euphorbiaceae or spurge family. Leaves are mainly 2-4 lobed and 4–7 cm long by 1.5–3 cm wide. Their contrast with the lower dark green leaves gives this euphorbia most of its common names. The stalk exudes a toxic milky white latex. The cyathia or false flowers, are located in clusters at the head of the stalk and are yellowish green.
The leaves at the upper end of the stalk, close to the cyathium, have a striking, scarlet red coloration. Leaves are mainly 2-4 lobed and 4–7 cm long by 1.5–3 cm wide. Their contrast with the lower dark green leaves gives this euphorbia most of its common names. The stalk exudes a toxic milky white latex. The cyathia or false flowers, are located in clusters at the head of the stalk and are yellowish green.
The botanical name, Euphorbia pulcherrima, was assigned to the Poinsettia by the German botanist, Wilenow. The plant grew through a crack in his greenhouse. Dazzled by its color, he gave it the botanical name, Euphorbia pulcherrima meaning very beautiful. 
Synonym Euphorbia pilulifera. Common name Cats hair, asthma weed, basri dudhi, chara, malnommee, pill-bearing spurge, patikan kerbau, patikan kebo, fei yang cao, gelang susu, amampat chaiarisi, erva de santa luzia, fei-yang ts'ao, Dugudhika, snakeweed. Family Euphorbiaceae (Spurge family).
Derivation of name and historical aspects The family name Euphorbiaceae and genus name Euphorbia were named in honour of a Linnaean hero namely Euphorbus, first century physician to King Juba of Mauritania. He is believed to have used plants of this genus as medicine. Description The rubber-hedge euphorbia is a many-branched, succulent plant, usually 3-5 m but may reach 10 m on occasion. The bark of very old specimens is grey and rough with longitudinal dents and ridges that break up into very small fragments.
Several Euphorbia species are used as food plants by the larvae of some Lepidoptera (butterflies and moths), like the Spurge Hawk-moths (Hyles euphorbiae and Hyles tithymali), as well as the Giant Leopard Moth. Euphorbia obesa. Several spurges are grown as garden plants, among them Poinsettia (E. pulcherrima) and the succulent E. trigona. E. pekinensis (Chinese: 大戟; pinyin: dajǐ) dàjǐ is used in Traditional chinese, medicine where it is regarded as one of the 50 fundamental. herbs