I will tell you both the similarity and difference between them. Both xylem and phloem are vascular tissues found in a plant. Xylem is a tubular structure which is responsible for water transport from the roots towards all of the parts of the plant. Phloem is also a tubular structure which, on the other hand, is responsible for the transportation of food and other nutrients needed by plant.
Phloem and xylem are complex tissues that perform transportation of food and water in a plant. They are the vascular tissues of the plant and together form vascular bundles. They work together as a unit to bring about effective transportation of food, nutrients, minerals and water. Xylem transports water and soluble mineral nutrients from roots to various parts of the plant. It is responsible for replacing water lost through transpiration and photosynthesis. Phloem translocates sugars made by photosynthetic areas of plants to storage organs like roots, tubers or bulbs.
Xylem and phloem are the two types of vascular tissues that are present in plants. They are responsible for transporting water, minerals, food and other organic materials between the roots, stems and leaves of the plant. Xylem cells are hard walled cells, which are stacked on top of each other and are mainly found in the center of the stem. Hence, xylem has another function, which is to provide mechanical support to the plant. Xylem is surrounded by the phloem. Phloem is the other type of transport tissue in vascular plants. Its main function is to carry soluble organic material, i.e. food for the plant, which is produced in the leaves by photosynthesis to the other parts of the plant. This process is called translocation
Best Answer: Xylem and phloem are the two components of the vascular system in higher plants. Xylem is composed of two different types of cells-tracheids or vessel elements. These cells are dead when they are functioning and that function is to transport water through the plant. (Remember that water movement occurs by Transpiration-Cohesion-Tension). Phloem is a living tissue, composed of sieve tube cells, and its primary function is to transport nutrients (in sap) throughout the plant. As opposed to xylem which only transports water up the plant, phloem transports nutrients up or down, depending on where the nutrients are greatest.
Xylem is a tubular structure which is responsible for water transport from the roots towards all of the parts of the plant. Phloem is also a tubular structure but is responsible for the transportation of food and other nutrients needed by plant. Xylem imports water and minerals while Phloem transports water and food. 1 Xylem consists of tracheids, vessels, xylem parenchyma and xylem fibres. 2  Also ray parenchyma Also the xylem of softwoods (Gymnospermae) do NOT contain vessels. 3  It is a living complex permanent tissue. 4  Inner phloem is alive.
I will tell you both the similarity and difference between them. Both xylem and phloem are vascular tissues found in a plant. Xylem is a tubular structure which is responsible … for water transport from the roots towards all of the parts of the plant. 1 Xylem consists of tracheids, vessels, xylem parenchyma and xylem fibres. 2  Also ray parenchyma Also the xylem of softwoods (Gymnospermae) do NOT contain vessels. 3  It is a living complex permanent tissue. 4  Inner phloem is alive.
Xylem and phloem are the two types of vascular tissues found in plants. Xylem tissues transport water from the roots throughout the plant, while phloem transports food (suga … rs) from photosysnthesis throughout the plant. 1 Xylem consists of tracheids, vessels, xylem parenchyma and xylem fibres. 2  Also ray parenchyma Also the xylem of softwoods (Gymnospermae) do NOT contain vessels. 3  It is a living complex permanent tissue. 4  Inner phloem is alive.
Both xylem and phloem are vascular tissues found in a plant. Xylem is a tubular structure which is responsible for water transport from the roots towards all of the parts of the plant. Phloem is a living tissue, composed of sieve tube cells, and its primary function is to transport nutrients (in sap) throughout the plant. As opposed to xylem which only transports water up the plant, phloem transports nutrients up or down, depending on where the nutrients are greatest.
Both xylem and phloem are vascular tissues found in a plant. Xylem is a tubular structure which is responsible for water transport from the roots towards all of the parts of t … he plant. Phloem is also a tubular structure but is responsible for the transportation of food and other nutrients needed by plant. Xylem is a tubular structure which is responsible for water transport from the roots towards all of the parts of the plant. Phloem is also a tubular structure which, on the other hand,