NO, they don’t say “probably”, but they might as well. They say they do not guarantee the two days, just that ‘most of the time’ packages arrive in that time period. Let’s take a look at how long does priority mail take versus how long other, regular mail takes to get to where it is going.
The United States Postal Services reports that as of January 2011, it takes an average of one to three days for First-Class Mail to arrive at its destination. Priority Mail takes an average of one to two days to arrive, according to the USPS. USPS only includes the time a package stays in transit in their estimations. Packages dropped off at a post office during business hours usually leave that day. Packages dropped off after hours may take an additional day. 
Not to deliver it, but to take the package or envelope, check the address, then put it in a pile to go to a distribution center in the appropriate, proximal zip code of its destination. That done, the mail might wait up to a day to be flown out, two days at times, then another day to be delivered by ground. They say they do not guarantee the two days, just that ‘most of the time’ packages arrive in that time period. Let’s take a look at how long does priority mail take versus how long other, regular mail takes to get to where it is going.
Customer filed a dispute with PayPay on 9/6 and then filed a claim on 9/10. Just wondering how long it takes a USPS First Class package to arrive from U.S. to U.K. Also, I can prove that I shipped with my receipt from post office, but PayPal is telling me that I have to prove delivery. This will be the 2nd time in the last year that I have had money taken from my PayPal account. 
How long until package gets to China from US? It takes up to two weeks Actually it all depends on what method of shipping you use, like EMS will probably take two weeks but FED-EX, UPS or DHL will be around 3 to 5 busines … s days.
In the U.S., Canada, and Europe, your UPS package cannot be scheduled to arrive at a specific time of day. UPS Ground packages are delivered any time between 9:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m., Monday through Friday. UPS Standard packages are delivered anytime between 9:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m., Monday through Friday. Back to Top. 
How long mail takes is going to depend on many factors along the way. Many factors, indeed, though with regard to how long does priority mail take, the answer is, not long. In fact, the United States Postal Service says your package or envelope will arrive within two days. They say they do not guarantee the two days, just that ‘most of the time’ packages arrive in that time period. Let’s take a look at how long does priority mail take versus how long other, regular mail takes to get to where it is going.
When you have fulfilled the requirements necessary to effect release, CBP will clear the package, note how much duty is owed, and return it to the U.S. Postal Service (USPS) for delivery. Usually, you will receive notification in a matter of days, but it can take as long as 30-45 days. If your package is long overdue or you think it may be lost in the mail, you should contact your local post office and request that a parcel tracer action be initiated to locate it. 
· just now. Report Abuse. --- should take 2-3 days to get to the USA then CUSTOMS-almost impossible to tell how long-especially as you did not indicate what you ordered. after thru customs - 2-3 days to get to you. Maverick · 3 years ago. Thumbs up. 0.
Answers. Best Answer: It really depends on the location of you and the package. You know that in some areas the weather is terrible and people are without power etc... But in normal situations if the seller shipped to you priority mail 3-5 days is usually pretty precise. If it was shipped 1st class mail it may take anywhere from 2-9 days. But being your not to far away I would think you should have it by no later than Monday. I sell on Ebay and some of my customers receive their packages in 2 days but some 5 days. I do ship using UPS Priority Mail. show more ok, so i bought a GH3 on ebay and the seller sent it though UPS. it was shipped out on the 4th and now it is the 5th of febuary. and one other thing... the package was shipped out like 140-150 miles away form me.