Most pumpkin varieties take between 85 - 125 days to mature. Most of the heirloom and larger varieties are on the longer end of the spectrum. The number of days to maturity will be listed on your seed packet that you purchased. If you would like to have pumpkins on October 1st, count backwards to decide when to plant. The vines get quite long (usually 20 - 30 feet) and need room to grow. This doesn't mean you have to have a big yard or a farm. If you have a long bed on the backside of your house or a garage, this can be the perfect place to grow a pumpkin.
Your seeds should sprout in 7 - 10 days. Once your seedling sprouts is a good time to add additional compost around the plant. The compost will help to keep weeds down and retain moisture. Again, if you don't have compost, don't stress, pumpkin vines are pretty resilient. The vines get quite long (usually 20 - 30 feet) and need room to grow. This doesn't mean you have to have a big yard or a farm. If you have a long bed on the backside of your house or a garage, this can be the perfect place to grow a pumpkin.
A pumpkin plant's days to maturity depends on the variety. Look at the seed pack. It can range from 85 to 160 days so, for example, if you want pumpkins by Halloween, count back this many days. In the U.S., most folks plant between late May and late June to get pumpkins mature in time for Halloween. 1 If you don't have manure, loosen the soil and mix in a 2- to 4-inch layer of compost. 2  Plant the seeds 1 inch deep into the hills (4 to 5 seeds per hill). 3  Space hills 4 to 8 feet apart. 4  Your plants should germinate in less than a week with the right soil temperautre (70 degrees F) and emerge in 5 to 10 days.
- Cover the cup of water with a ceramic plate to keep the heat in and prevent light. - If seeds float when put in water, gently tap so the seeds sink. Generally the best and most viable seeds sink. Your weed seeds should germinate in 2-5 days although occasionally with some strains it can take longer (up to 10-15 days). - Once tap roots show remove the seeds from the water. 
1 Place the seed on it's side. 2  Water thoroughly. 3  Keep the soil moist, not wet. 4  Provide bottom warmth to the seeds. 5  Experienced growers use a germination mat, which improves germination rates, and shortens the time to germination. 6  Once the plant has sprouted, stop the bottom heat, as it can harm the roots. 1 As a matter of fact, it will aid germination and seedling emergence for hard shelled pumpkin seeds, and other types of seeds, too. 2  Soak the seeds in warm (not hot) water for at least two hours. 3  Some growers soak them for up to 24 hours. 4  We believe 3-6 hours is enough.
A quick instructional video on how to start pumpkin seeds indoors. You can also start peas, cucumbers, corn, or any other large seed in this way. Have fun with it! 
Starting Pumpkin Seeds Outside. When you plant pumpkin seeds outside, you need to realize that pumpkins need an incredible amount of space to grow. It is recommended that you plan on a minimum of 20 square feet being needed for each plant. When the soil temperature is at least 65 F., you can plant your pumpkin seeds. Pumpkin seeds will not germinate in cold soil. Mound the soil in the center of the chosen location up a bit to help the sun heat the pumpkin seeds better. The warmer the soil is, the faster the pumpkin seeds will germinate. In the mound, plant 3-5 pumpkin seeds about 1 inch deep
Germination of your pumpkin seeds is a very important first step to a successful, perhaps record breaking season. You can directly sow pumpkin seed into the garden in most areas. You need about 100 - 120 days for most varieties of pumpkins. Giant pumpkins and other giant varieties require 130 to 150 days. People with short growing seasons, or growers pursuing the big one, need to get a jump start on the season, by planting indoors. 1 As a matter of fact, it will aid germination and seedling emergence for hard shelled pumpkin seeds, and other types of seeds, too. 2  Soak the seeds in warm (not hot) water for at least two hours. 3  Some growers soak them for up to 24 hours. 4  We believe 3-6 hours is enough.
Choose Varieties. Pumpkins grow best when seeded directly into the garden. You can start seeds indoors, but pumpkins do not transplant well because their roots are sensitive to disturbance. Depending on the variety, pumpkins require anywhere from 85 to 130 days to grow from seed. Choose a variety that will grow to full maturity within your growing season. 