When Tenneco owned the building the letters T-E-N-N-E-C-O outlined the top of the building on each of the four sides. In 2008 Gilbain Construction started a complete remodel of the building completed in 2012. The main lobby is now located on Level 1 with entrances on Louisiana Street and Travis Street. It was originally known as the Tenneco Building. It is the 28th tallest building in the city. Because of downtown Houston 's diagonal street grid, all four sides of the building are exposed to the sun. The windows are recessed from the frame to control heat and glare from the sun.
Tenneco is a global leader in Clean Air and Ride Performance with 89 manufacturing facilities and 14 engineering centers located in 24 countries on six continents. Video: See us around the world. 
Ride control manufacturing plants are located in Hosur, Pondicherry and Bawal near Gurgoan. Emission control manufacturing facilities are located in Pune and Chennai. Tenneco India is a fast growing US MNC with an overall turnover of 350 Crores with a workforce strength of over 1000 people on board. Since becoming a standalone company in 1999, Tenneco (NYSE: TEN) has grown to become one of the world's leading designers, manufacturers and distributors of emission control and ride control products and systems for the automotive original equipment market and the aftermarket.
Tenneco, with headquarters in Lake Forest, Illinois, United States is an automotive components original equipment manufacturer and an after-market ride-control and emissions products. In 2011 it reported a revenue of $7.2 billion. By 1994, Tenneco decided to begin getting out of the ag business and agreed to sell 35% of the now named Case Corporation. In 1996, the spin-off of Case Corporation was completed. The company was acquired by Fiat in 1999 and merged with New Holland Agriculture to form CNH Global.
This LoopNet Tenneco Inc. tenant and owner information is organized and aggregated from public records and the millions of historical and current sale and lease listings provided by members of the LoopNet commercial real estate marketplace. Find leasing information, previous sales and currently active for sale and lease listings of properties where Tenneco Inc. is located.
Tenneco, Inc.'s origin was in the Chicago Corporation, established about 1930. By 1994, Tenneco decided to begin getting out of the ag business and agreed to sell 35% of the now named Case Corporation. In 1996, the spin-off of Case Corporation was completed. The company was acquired by Fiat in 1999 and merged with New Holland Agriculture to form CNH Global.
Share price of Tenneco Inc. (TEN) increased 2.5% to $56.52 on Sep 24, after the company announced the inauguration of a new clean air research, development and manufacturing facility in China, to be located in Kunshan, near Shanghai. Currently, the company retains a Zacks Rank #2 (Buy). Some well-performing automobile stocks worth considering include Allison Transmission Holdings, Inc. (ALSN), STRATTEC Security Corp. (STRT) and China Automotive Systems Inc. (CAAS). All these stocks sport a Zacks Rank #1 (Strong Buy).
Tenneco is a multi-national corporation with 89 manufacturing facilities in 26 countries located on 6 continents, with major centers of operations in North America, Europe, Australia and Asia. There were 26,000 employees in 2013. By 1994, Tenneco decided to begin getting out of the ag business and agreed to sell 35% of the now named Case Corporation. In 1996, the spin-off of Case Corporation was completed. The company was acquired by Fiat in 1999 and merged with New Holland Agriculture to form CNH Global.
Tenneco Inc. View information on current and former Tenneco Inc. building locations. Find leasing information, previous sales and currently active for sale and lease listings of properties where Tenneco Inc. is located. Research Tenneco Inc. information, location photos and more