During World War I, the United States fought a war of ideas with unprecedented ingenuity and organization. President Woodrow Wilson established the Committee on Public Information (CPI) to manage news and solicit widespread support for the war at home and abroad. 
Liberty Loan drives were all oversubscribed, Red Cross contributions and a dozen other war-support causes were successful.. But while the Creel committee's efforts to sell the war were successful, its slogans of the war to end war and making the world safe for democracy were cruel illusions. In a 1920 memoir, titled How We Advertised America, Creel wrote that the war was not fought in France alone: It was the fight for the minds of men, for the conquest of their convictions, and the battle-line ran through every home in every country.
One of the most important elements of the CPI was the Division of News, which distributed more than 6,000 press releases and acted as the primary conduit for war-related information. According to Creel, on any given week, more than 20,000 newspaper columns were filled with material gleaned from CPI handouts. Censorship was only one element of the CPI's efforts. With all the sophistication of a modern advertising agency, the CPI examined the different ways that information flowed to the population and flooded these channels with pro-war material.
The Committee on Public Information (CPI) was a government agency established in the United States during World War I with the aim of supporting the war effort. It was created by executive order shortly after the United States entered the war in 1917 and was shuttered in 1919 with the cessation of hostilities. One aspect of the committee's work was censorship of potentially damaging material, and the committee maintained a stranglehold on the kind of material from the war that could be released to the public. The other arm of the Committee on Public Information's work involved generating propaganda materials.
Sorry, something has gone wrong. Best Answer: The Committee on Public Information (CPI), also known as the Creel Committee, organized publicity on behalf of U.S. objectives during World War I. In 1917, U.S. President Woodrow Wilson tapped muckraking journalist George Creel [1] to head the CPI. In a 1920 memoir, titled How We Advertised America, Creel wrote that the war was not fought in France alone: It was the fight for the minds of men, for the conquest of their convictions, and the battle-line ran through every home in every country.
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Well President Woodrow Wilson was head of the committee and the Committee to public information made compains, movies, and pampflits to get people in the homefront to support the war. The purpose of the Committee on Public Information was to try to  sway public opinion in the US in favor of supporting America  getting involved in the First World War. The … committee was  established in 1917.
The absence of public unity was a primary concern when America entered the war on April 6, 1917. In Washington, unwavering public support was considered to be crucial to the entire wartime effort. On April 13, 1917, Wilson created the Committee on Public Information (CPI) to promote the war domestically while publicizing American war aims abroad. Censorship was only one element of the CPI's efforts. With all the sophistication of a modern advertising agency, the CPI examined the different ways that information flowed to the population and flooded these channels with pro-war material.
The Committee on Public Information (CPI), also known as the Creel Committee, organized publicity on behalf of U.S. objectives during World War I. In 1917, U.S. President Woodrow Wilson tapped muckraking journalist George Creel [1] to head the CPI. At the time, a strong current of public opinion in the United States opposed Wilson's plan to enter the war in Europe, and in fact Wilson had run for re-election in 1916 on the slogan, He kept us out of war..
During World War I, the United States fought a war of ideas with unprecedented ingenuity and organization. President Woodrow Wilson established the Committee on Public Information (CPI) to manage news and solicit widespread support for the war at home and abroad. Under the energetic direction of Mississippi newspaper editor George Creel, the CPI churned out national propaganda through diverse media. 