The Lion is the only cat that lives in large social groups, shares its territory, and regularly hunts together. The Lion’s diet consists of wildebeests, antelope, zebras, wild pigs, buffalo, impalas, and other hoofed mammals. Cub mortality is very high in lions, and less than half will survive their first year. Young males will leave their pride between 2-4 years if they can get away with staying that long, but sometimes they are forced out as early as 13-20 months.
Any lactating female in a pride will suckle any cub that belongs to the pride. Lions give birth to 1-6 cubs after a gestation of 110 days. The cubs are born blind and helpless, and weigh approximately 2-4 pounds. Cub mortality is very high in lions, and less than half will survive their first year. Young males will leave their pride between 2-4 years if they can get away with staying that long, but sometimes they are forced out as early as 13-20 months.
Lions are also the only cats that live in large, social groups called “prides.” A pride can have 3 to 30 lions and is made up of lionesses (mothers, sisters, and cousins), and their cubs, along with a few unrelated adult males. The pride has a close bond and is not likely to accept a stranger. Lions use their roar as one form of communication. It identifies individuals, strengthens the pride’s bond, and lets other animals know of the pride’s domain. Other sounds lions produce include growls, snarls, hisses, meows, grunts, and puffs, which sound like a stifled sneeze and is used in friendly situations.
Humming is the sound of contentment, like purring, that is emitted during affectionate interactions and while cubs nurse. Puffing. Puffing is a sound made when lions approach each other with peaceable intentions, makes a faint pfft pfft sound. Woofing. Woofing is a sound made when a lion is startled. 1 A lion has retractable claws like many cats. 2  Coat short except for tail tuft and a mane, that appears at three years old and maximum size at five years. 3  A lion is the only feline with a tuft on the end of their tale.
Pride of Lions is a melodic rock group fronted by former Survivor guitarist/keyboardist Jim Peterik and vocalist Toby Hitchcock. Formed in 2003, the group, according to Peterik is my vision of the best elements of the great melodic rock era of the 80’s, updated of course with more modern production sounds.. 
The lion (Panthera leo) is one of the five big cats in the genus Panthera and a member of the family Felidae. The commonly used term African lion collectively denotes the several subspecies found in Africa. With some males exceeding 250 kg (550 lb) in weight, it is the second-largest living cat after the tiger. 
The sounds of the king of the African savanna and the ruler of Africa-the lion! The lion (Panthera leo) is one of the four big cats in the genus Panthera and a member of the family Felidae. With some males exceeding 250 kg (550 lb) in weight, it is the second-largest living cat after the tiger.
Females tend to do the hunting in a pride. They are social hunters and will work together to take down large prey. Food. In the wild, lions eat small animals, such as birds and reptiles, and larger animals like zebra, wildebeest, and antelope. Life Cycle. Lions become sexually mature between 3 and 4 years of age. A female lion’s estrus cycle is approximately every 30 days, year-round. Lions have induced ovulation, which means the act of mating induces the female to ovulate. Dominant males father all cubs in a pride. 
Vulnerable. Size relative to a 6-ft (2-m) man: Lions are the only cats that live in groups, which are called prides. Prides are family units that may include up to three males, a dozen or so females, and their young. All of a pride's lionesses are related, and female cubs typically stay with the group as they age. 