Between September 17, 1787, the day the Constitution was signed by the Constitutional Convention, and May 29, 1790, the day Rhode Island became the thirteenth and last state to ratify the Constitution, the Federalists and Anti-Federalists engaged in a fierce national debate on the merits of the Constitution. Congress of the United States; Constitution of the United States (Appendix, Primary Document) ; Constitutional Amendment; Constitutional Law; Federalist Papers; Full Faith and Credit Clause; Presidential Powers.
For customs relating to a Constitution, see Constitutional convention (political custom) . A constitutional convention is a gathering for the purpose of writing a new constitution or revising an existing constitution. A general constitutional convention is called to create the first constitution of a political unit or to entirely replace an existing constitution. Members of a constitutional convention are often elected in a manner similar to a regular legislature, and may often involve members of regular legislatures as well as individuals selected to represent minorities of the population.
Constitutional Convention-the convention of United States statesmen who drafted the United States Constitution in 1787. convention-a large formal assembly; political convention. Founding Father-a member of the Constitutional Convention that drafted the United States Constitution in 1787. 
• CONSTITUTIONAL CONVENTION (noun). The noun CONSTITUTIONAL CONVENTION has 1 sense: 1. the convention of United States statesmen who drafted the United States Constitution in 1787. Familiarity information: CONSTITUTIONAL CONVENTION used as a noun is very rare.
Constitutional convention is a representative body meeting to form and adopt a new constitution or to form, consider, and adopt amendments to an existing constitution. An unlimited constitutional convention is called to revise an existing constitution to the extent that it deems to be proper. A limited constitutional convention is restricted to revising only the areas of the current constitution named in the convention's call, the legal mandate establishing the convention.
Related Terms  13 Colonies  American Revolution  Revolutionary War  George Washington  Articles of Confederation  James Madison  The Constitution  Benjamin Franklin Definition: Convention called in 1787 to discuss problems with the current government document, the Articles of Confederation. The result was a new form of government, the Constitution. Delegates from all over the colonies attended, and they struggled with competing concerns of large-population states and small-population states.
The U.S. Constitution was drafted in 1787 in Philadelphia by delegates to the constitutional convention. The delegates decided soon after their arrival that the Articles of Confederation could not be saved through amendment and that an entirely new constitution should be written to replace it. Congress of the United States; Constitution of the United States (Appendix, Primary Document) ; Constitutional Amendment; Constitutional Law; Federalist Papers; Full Faith and Credit Clause; Presidential Powers.
Constitution of the United States-the constitution written at the Constitutional Convention in Philadelphia in 1787 and subsequently ratified by the original thirteen states. 
A constitutional congress is now a gathering for the purpose of writing a new constitution in a constitutional convention or revising an existing constitution. A general constitutional convention is called to create the first constitution of a political unit or to entirely replace an existing constitution. 
For instance, the Federal Convention of 1787, meeting in Philadelphia to form and adopt the Constitution of the U.S. Constitutional convention may be general, unlimited, or limited. A general constitutional convention is called to create the first constitution of a political unit or to entirely replace an existing constitution. An unlimited constitutional convention is called to revise an existing constitution to the extent that it deems to be proper. A limited constitutional convention is restricted to revising only the areas of the current constitution named in the convention's call, the legal mandate establishing the convention.