Yet a third-party app for the iPhone and iPad, Video Stream, aims at providing iOS 5 users with a way to store videos in iCloud and push them effortlessly to all their iCloud-connected devices. Video Stream is a $0.99 download from the App Store, and it runs on the iPhone and iPad. The concept is simple: you can manually import videos from your Camera Roll (or shoot new ones directly into Video Stream) and the app will start uploading them to iCloud.
Store music, files, movies, videos, presentations, documents and more in iCloud. Simply compress the file, add .txt at the end and upload that file right to your iCloud. Open iCloud from any computer and have your files waiting for you. Simply download the file, and delete the .txt .
With iOS 5, Apple introduced Photo Stream, a service based on iCloud to store your most recent photos in the cloud, and automatically have them pushed to all your devices, including the Mac (with iPhoto and Aperture) and Windows PCs.
Video Stream for iCloud does exactly what its name promises, and syncs movies between devices via the iCloud service - Gadget Lab, Wired.com. Import videos from your Camera Roll, and Video Stream for iCloud sends copies over the network to your iPhone, iPad, and iPod touch.
iCloud Photo Library and iCloud Drive keep all your photos, videos, and documents stored securely and updated everywhere. Family Sharing lets you easily share music, movies, photos, and more with everyone in your family.
iCloud Photo Library. iCloud Photo Library stores every photo and video you take, making them accessible from your iPhone, iPad, iPod touch, or Mac and on iCloud.com. iCloud Photo Sharing makes it easy to show off just the photos and videos you want to just the people you want to see them.
The number of photos and videos you can store depends on your available iCloud storage. When you sign up for iCloud, you automatically get 5 GB of free storage, and several iCloud storage plans are available from 50 GB for $0.99 up to 1 TB.