Adaption of Xylem vessel are: 1. thick wall made of lignin which supports the plant. 2. xylem vessel are hollow from inside. 3. does not have cross walls, are hollow from ins … ide which increase the surface area to volume ratio and can take in more water. The most distinctive cells found in xylem are the tracheary elements, that is tracheids and vessel elements. However, the xylem is a complex tissue of plants, which means that … it includes more than one type of cell. This is why it is a tissue not a cell. 2 people found this useful.
Solute Transport in the Xylem. 1  Some solutes are transported in the xylem. 2  Water and dissolved ions are the main substances in vessels/tracheids. 3  These materials are transported via transpiration stream. 4  Xylem sap may also contain organic materials, usually in relatively low concentration (with a notable exception being maple sap in the spring 5  ... S 1 Thus, plants transport substances in the phloem downward toward the roots. ( 2 2) Sophisticated girdling experiments, using tracers like 32P, 13C, and 14C demonstrate that substances in the phloem are transported downward towards the roots OR upwards toward the shoot meristem. 3  See data on overheads.
In vascular plants, phloem is the living tissue that carries organic nutrients (known as photosynthate), in particular, sucrose, a sugar, to all parts of the plant where needed. In trees, the phloem is the innermost layer of the bark, hence the name, derived from the Greek word φλοιός (phloios) meaning bark. During the plant's growth period, usually during the spring, storage organs such as the roots are sugar sources, and the plant's many growing areas are sugar sinks. The movement in phloem is multidirectional, whereas, in xylem cells, it is unidirectional (upward).
The most distinctive xylem cells are the long tracheary elements that transport water. Tracheids and vessel elements are distinguished by their shape; vessel elements are shorter, and are connected together into long tubes that are called vessels. Xylem also contains two other cell types: parenchyma and fibers. Xylem can be found: 1  in vascular bundles, present in non-woody plants and non-woody parts of woody plants. 2  in secondary xylem, laid down by a meristem called the vascular cambium in woody plants.
1 Phloem is difficult to study in plants because: (1) the transport cells/tissue in plants are small (microscopic) in comparison to the transport structures in animals; (2) there is a very rapid response of the phloem to wounding (contents under pressure); (3) transport in plants is intracellular (vs. 1 Thus, plants transport substances in the phloem downward toward the roots. ( 2 2) Sophisticated girdling experiments, using tracers like 32P, 13C, and 14C demonstrate that substances in the phloem are transported downward towards the roots OR upwards toward the shoot meristem. 3  See data on overheads.
Plants have two different types of 'transport' tissue, xylem and phloem, that move substances in and around the plant. When water evaporates from the leaves, resulting in more water being drawn up from the roots, it is called transpiration. 
In most plant species, phloem is made up of phloem fibres, phloem parenchyma, sieve cells (sieve elements) and their accompanying companion cells (Figure 5.5a). Sieve elements are ideally suited for rapid transport of substances at high rates over long distances. (a) Conducting cells of the phloem (sieve elements) and accompanying companion cells form groups of cells that are separated by phloem parenchyma cells. This mosaic of cells is located between the cortex and xylem and capped by phloem fibres. Scale bar = 7.3 μm.
Submitted by Anonymous on. Two main types of plant tissue are used in transport-xylem and phloem. Xylem transports water and minerals. Phloem transports organic molecules such as the products of photosynthesis. Water enters through the root hair cells and then moves across into the xylem tissue in the centre of the root. Water moves in this direction because the soil water has higher water potential, than the solution inside the root hair cells.
(1) From the phloem sieve tubes (Pc), carbohydrates can move by diffusion via plasmodesmata into the symplastic storage compartment (S) (e.g. ray cells or phloem parenchyma). Carbohydrates can diffuse through the cell membrane (2) into the apoplast (A) or (3) into the storage compartment. First, the phloem protects the plant by its high turgor pressure and concomitant high sugar concentration in the SECCCs (Turgeon, 2010a). When a sieve tube is wounded, pressure release causes surging and forces cellular debris into the sieve pores, sealing the phloem (e.g. Ehlers et al., 2000).
Because phloem tubes sit on the outside of the xylem in most plants, a tree or other plant can be effectively killed by stripping away the bark in a ring on the trunk or stem. With the phloem destroyed, nutrients cannot reach the roots, and the tree/plant will die. During the plant's growth period, usually during the spring, storage organs such as the roots are sugar sources, and the plant's many growing areas are sugar sinks. The movement in phloem is multidirectional, whereas, in xylem cells, it is unidirectional (upward).