(Discuss) Proposed since July 2014. Corporate law (also company or corporations law) is the study of how shareholders, directors, employees, creditors, and other stakeholders such as consumers, the community and the environment interact with one another. Corporate law is a part of a broader companies law (or law of business associations). Other types of business associations can include partnerships (in the UK governed by the Partnership Act 1890), or trusts (like a pension fund), or companies limited by guarantee (like some community organizations or charities)
(l) a trustee of a trust under which a person is a beneficiary, where the person is a related entity of the first-mentioned body because of any other application or applications of this definition. related party . (when used in Chapter 2E) has the meaning given by section 228. unlisted disclosing entity  has the meaning given by subsection 111AL(2). unreasonable director-related transaction  has the meaning given by section 588FDA. unsecured  , in relation to a debt, has in Part 5.7B a meaning affected by section 588D. value  , in relation to an asset, includes amount.
Accordingly, ACLA submits that, if the Uniform Law cannot be amended, that the Uniform Rules prescribe that an “associated entity”, as defined in s.50AAA of the Corporations Act, be a “related entity” for the purposes of the definition of that term in s.6 of the Uniform Law. 
A corporation is a legal entity created through the laws of its state of incorporation. Individual states have the power to promulgate laws relating to the creation, organization and dissolution of corporations. States also have registration laws requiring corporations that incorporate in other states to request permission to do in-state business. There has also been a significant component of Federal corporations law since Congress passed the Securities Act of 1933, which regulates how corporate securities are issued and sold.
Sometimes we also see the term “related entity” used in section 439A reports and DOCA proposals in lieu of the term “related party”. The term “related entity” is also defined in section 9 of the Act. Unlike the term “related party”, the term “related entity” has the following very expansive definition including a:-. 1  promoter of the body; 2  relative of such a promoter; 3  relative of a spouse of such a promoter; 4  director or member of the body or of a related body corporate; 5  relative of such a director or member; 6  relative of a spouse of such a 7  ... bod
ABN  (short for Australian Business Number) has the meaning given by section 41 of the A New Tax System (Australian Business Number) Act 1999. Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander corporation  means a corporation registered under the Corporations (Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander) Act 2006. unlisted disclosing entity  has the meaning given by subsection 111AL(2). unreasonable director-related transaction  has the meaning given by section 588FDA. unsecured  , in relation to a debt, has in Part 5.7B a meaning affected by section 588D. value  , in relation to an asset, includes amount.
simple corporate bonds  has the meaning given by section 713A. simple corporate bonds depository interest  means a beneficial interest in simple corporate bonds, where the interest is or was issued by a simple corporate bonds depository nominee (as a simple corporate bonds depository nominee). unlisted disclosing entity  has the meaning given by subsection 111AL(2). unreasonable director-related transaction  has the meaning given by section 588FDA. unsecured  , in relation to a debt, has in Part 5.7B a meaning affected by section 588D. value  , in relation to an asset, includes amount.
business affairs  , in relation to an entity, has a meaning affected by sections 53AA, 53AB, 53AC and 53AD. business day  means a day that is not a Saturday, a Sunday or a public holiday or bank holiday in the place concerned. unlisted disclosing entity  has the meaning given by subsection 111AL(2). unreasonable director-related transaction  has the meaning given by section 588FDA. unsecured  , in relation to a debt, has in Part 5.7B a meaning affected by section 588D. value  , in relation to an asset, includes amount.
Entity. A real being; existence. An organization or being that possesses separate existence for tax purposes. Examples would be corporations, partnerships, estates, and trusts. The accounting entity for which accounting statements are prepared may not be the same as the entity defined by law. Entity includes corporation and foreign corporation; not-for-profit corporation; profit and not for-profit unincorporated association; Business Trust, estate, partnership, trust, and two or more persons having a joint or common economic interest; and state, U.S., and foreign governments.