Meaning & History. Anglicized form of MAEL MáEL sechnaill OR MAEL, máel maedoc máedóc influenced by THE. Spelling Of (malachi Saint, Malachy In) irish mael máel-maedoc máedóc was A 12th century archbishop of. armagh renowned for his miracles 
Malachy. Meaning of the name Malachy. Listen and learn how to pronounce Malachy so you can get the correct pronunciation for this boy name. 
Meanings and history of the name Malachi : | Edit. Malachi means my messenger in Hebrew. Malachi is the last book of the Old Testament. St. Malachy (1094-1148) was an Irish saint and Archbishop of Armagh who adopted the name from the Hebrew prophet Malachi. Derived from the Hebrew mal'ākhī (my messenger). The name was borne by a 5th century B.C. prophet, the last of the Hebrew prophets. His prophecies of the coming Messiah and Judgement Day are recorded in the Old Testament book of Malachi.
Malachy /ma-la-chy/ [3 sylls.] as a name for boys is of Hebrew derivation, and the name Malachy means messenger of God. Popular varying forms of Malachy (outside Top 1000) appearing in the Top 1000 are Malachi (#179 the previous year) and Malaki. These boy names reached the apex of their popularity in 2007 (usage of 0.531%) and have become much less popular since (usage 0.4105%, down 22.7%), with the version Malaki becoming less stylish.
Meaning of Malachy. Irish name. In Irish, the name Malachy means-Servant.. Other origins for the name Malachy include-Irish, Israeli, Hebrew.The name Malachy is most often used as a boy name or male name. Irish Name Meaning-Servant
Malachy is a rare given name for males. Malachy is an equivalently unique last name too for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census). Popular varying forms of Malachy (outside Top 1000) appearing in the Top 1000 are Malachi (#179 the previous year) and Malaki. These boy names reached the apex of their popularity in 2007 (usage of 0.531%) and have become much less popular since (usage 0.4105%, down 22.7%), with the version Malaki becoming less stylish.
Irish Meaning: The name Malachy is an Irish baby name. In Irish the meaning of the name Malachy is: Servant. Hebrew Meaning: The name Malachy is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Malachy is: Messenger of God. The title of the last book in the Old Testament.
Malachi /mala-chi/ [3 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced MAL-a-kye. It is of Hebrew origin, and the meaning of Malachi is  messenger of God. Biblical: a prophet and writer of the final book of the Old Testament. Malachy (12th century) was an Irish saint. Author Malachi Martin. 
In Ireland, the name Malachy is less associated with the Biblical Malachi (one of the twelve Minor Prophets in the Old Testament) than he is with one of Ireland’s High Kings, Mael Máel sechnaill of the 9th. century 