A good score for the PSAT Exam is one that enables you to become a National Merit Scholar. The cutoff score varies from year to year and from state to state. To become a National Merit Semifinalist (NMSF), you must score in the top 0.5% in your state on the PSAT. As a general rule, if you score a 217 or better on the PSAT, you should be a strong contender for becoming a National Merit Semifinalist. The test is given in October every year. Students usually take the PSAT in both the 10th and 11th grades. Only your junior year scores will count towards the National Merit Scholarship Program.
The duration of the SSAT depends on which level of the test you are taking. If you are taking the Elementary Level test, the test will take 110 minutes, or about two hours: 1  Quantitative (Math) section: 30 questions, 30 minutes. 2  Verbal section: 30 questions, 20 minutes. If you are taking the Middle or Upper Level tests, the test will take 170 minutes, or about three hours: 1  Writing sample: 2 prompts will be provided. 2  You will have 25 minutes to select one prompt, and write a passage. 3  5 minute break. 4  First Quantitative (math) section: 25
This Site Might Help You. RE: How long does it take to get your SAT scores back online? i just took the SAT this morning, approximately how many days/weeks will it take to get my scores back? thanks. The official results are mailed to you, your high school, and any other recipients you specified (like colleges) about five weeks after you take the test. My son took the SAT this morning as well and I was online looking for the same answer. Good luck to you! Source(s): http://www.college-admissions-secrets.co...
1 Verbal section: 30 questions, 20 minutes. 2  15 minute break: During this time you may have a snack, or leave the classroom to stretch your legs or take a bathroom break. 3  Reading section: 7 short passages, 28 questions, 30 minutes. 4  Writing sample: 1 picture prompt will be provided. If you are taking the Middle or Upper Level tests, the test will take 170 minutes, or about three hours: 1  Writing sample: 2 prompts will be provided. 2  You will have 25 minutes to select one prompt, and write a passage. 3  5 minute break. 4  First Quantitative (math) section: 25
1 Quantitative (Math) section: 30 questions, 30 minutes. 2  Verbal section: 30 questions, 20 minutes. 3  15 minute break: During this time you may have a snack, or leave the classroom to stretch your legs or take a bathroom break. 4  Reading section: 7 short passages, 28 questions, 30 minutes. If you are taking the Middle or Upper Level tests, the test will take 170 minutes, or about three hours: 1  Writing sample: 2 prompts will be provided. 2  You will have 25 minutes to select one prompt, and write a passage. 3  5 minute break. 4  First Quantitative (math) section: 25
From the college board site, http://www.college-admissions-secrets.co... How long does it take to get my scores back? How do I get them? Generally, SAT results are available online about three weeks after you take the test. The official results are mailed to you, your high school, and any other recipients you specified (like colleges) about five weeks after you take the test. My son took the SAT this morning as well and I was online looking for the same answer. Good luck to you! Source(s): http://www.college-admissions-secrets.co...
RE: How long will it take to get my SAT scores back? I took the SAT today (June 5th) and I want to know when I would expect to get them back? I want to take advantage of the four free score reports that get sent to 4 colleges but I want to see my score first before I send them to my top 4 picks. Any help would be greatly appreciated! Source(s): long sat scores back: https://tr.im/qgo88. America · 2 months ago.
Best Answer: Your scores will be available on June 24th-only 17 more days to go! Here is the link to where you can access your scores when they are available-http://sat.collegeboard.com/scores. Good luck! Source(s): I work for PowerScore SAT Prep http://www.powerscore.com/sat. I want to take advantage of the four free score reports that get sent to 4 colleges but I want to see my score first before I send them to my top 4 picks. Any help would be greatly appreciated! Source(s): long sat scores back: https://tr.im/qgo88. America · 2 months ago.
A: Your scores will be available to you within five to 20 days. In most cases, the scores will be available within five to seven days, but we may need up to 20 days to fully process your request, as we would if you accepted your scores on test day. A: You will get an unofficial score report with Verbal, Quantitative, Integrated Reasoning and Total scores immediately after your exam. You will receive an email with a URL to access your score report within 20 days of
The SAT Reasoning Test is a test students usually take for college admissions. The test has three sections: Critical Reading, Writing, and Math, and is about three hours and 45 minutes long. Most people agree that the SAT is the single most important test students can take in high school. If the colleges you are planning to apply to only require you to send your highest test scores, you can now take the SAT and SAT Subject Tests as many times as you want. Colleges will only see the scores you want to send them!