There are two types of audits, internal and external. An internal audit is normally performed by employees or may even be performed by a contracted outside firm. An internal audit is also known as First Party Audit. An external audit is comprised of a Second Party Audit and a Third Party Audit. The Second Party Audit is normally performed by the customer, such as the supplier. The Third Party Audit is performed by a registrar such as IAPMO R&T. Third Party Audit is also known as an independent audit.
It depends on the situation, of course. I'm most specifically interested in what an audit would entail were I to be audited. It's not a completely useless question since (if I understand correctly) you can be audited at random, and not just for red flags. 
Some typical stages in the audit process. Auditing refers to a systematic and independent examination of books, accounts, documents and vouchers of an organization to ascertain how far the financial statements present a true and fair view of the concern. 
DEFINITION of 'Audit'. 1. An unbiased examination and evaluation of the financial statements of an organization. It can be done internally (by employees of the organization) or externally (by an outside firm). 2. 
An IT audit is different from a financial statement audit. While a financial audit's purpose is to evaluate whether an organization is adhering to standard accounting practices, the purposes of an IT audit are to evaluate the system's internal control design and effectiveness.
• AUDIT (noun). The noun AUDIT has 2 senses: 1. an inspection of the accounting procedures and records by a trained accountant or CPA. 2. a methodical examination or review of a condition or situation. Familiarity information: AUDIT used as a noun is rare. • AUDIT (verb).
But in many cases, the fear of it is actually worse than the audit itself. It helps if you understand your rights as a taxpayer. An audit is basically a review or examination of your tax information to ensure that the return has been correctly reported. This process verifies that the proper amount of tax is paid. Myth: Pay up – or else. An IRS letter is not necessarily a bill. You must remember the purpose of the audit is merely to review the forms you sent in and ask for more information. The fact that you received a letter means you have some work to do to show that what you reported on your return was right.
The letter you receive should also indicate what type of IRS audit you have been selected for. Depending on the type of audit you are facing, your tax matters could be settled in a matter of days or linger for months. For more involved audits, obtaining the services of a tax professional is highly advisable. What does it mean to get audited is the first of a three-part series about IRS Audits.
Field Audit. Like an office audit, a field audit is also conducted in person. Unlike an office audit, a field audit is conducted in your place of business. You should be prepared to present copies of your documentation at the audit, and your legal representative or tax professional should also be present. What does it mean to get audited is the first of a three-part series about IRS Audits.
An audit is frightening no matter what, but it doesn't have to be inscrutable. And it doesn’t always mean you will owe more money. There is, believe it or not, a method to the madness. An income tax audit is an examination of a tax return. During an audit, an IRS examiner makes a line-by-line assessment of your tax return. 