The second function of the lymphatic system is the absorption of fats and fat-soluble vitamins from the digestive system and the subsequent transport of these substances to the venous circulation. The mucosa that lines the small intestine is covered with fingerlike projections called villi. There are blood capillaries and special lymph capillaries, called lacteals, in the center of each villi. The blood capillaries absorb most nutrients, but the fats and fat-soluble vitamins are absorbed by the lacteals. The lymph in the lacteals has a milky appearance due to its high fat content and is called chyle.
A lacteal is a lymphatic capillary that absorbs dietary fats in the villi of the small intestine. Triglycerides are emulsified by bile and hydrolyzed by the enzyme lipase, resulting in a mixture of fatty acids and monoglycerides. 
The lymphatic system includes the bone marrow, spleen, thymus, lymph nodes, and lymphatic vessels (a network of thin tubes that carry lymph and white blood cells, or leukocytes). Lymphatic vessels branch, like blood vessels, into all the tissues of the body. The lymphatic system has three main functions. First, it returns excess interstitial fluid (also called tissue fluid) to the blood. Of the fluid that leaves the capillaries, about 90 percent is returned
Lacteals are the specialized lymphatic capillaries of the small intestine which transfer fats from the digetive system into the blood. Chyle (pronounced Kyle) is milky f … luid found in the lacteals formed by fat globules and lymph. 1 person found this useful. Answered. Lymph is a fluid. It flows through the lymphatic vessels by one way  valves which allows lymph move way through lymphatic system.  Subclavian suction, and skeletal muscle pu … mps help to propel the  lymph through the lymphatic vessels. 18 people found this useful.
1 Water-soluble nutrients and small fats are routed to the liver before being transported to the cells. 2  Fat-soluble nutrients, which enter the lymph, bypass the liver at first but eventually enter the vascular system. 3  The vascular system is a closed system of vessels consisting of arteries, capillaries and veins. 1 Very little absorption of nutrients occurs in the stomach. 2  The small intestine receives the chyme from the stomach and, in addition, digestive juices from the gallbladder and the pancreas. 3  The three segments of the small intestine are the duodenum, the jejunum and the ileum.
After the fluid enters the lymph capillaries, it is called lymph. The second function of the lymphatic system is the absorption of fats and fat-soluble vitamins from the digestive system and the subsequent transport of these substances to the venous circulation. Lymphatic vessels branch, like blood vessels, into all the tissues of the body. The lymphatic system has three main functions. First, it returns excess interstitial fluid (also called tissue fluid) to the blood.
The Lymphatic system is made up of capillaries, vessels, valves, ducts, nodes, and organs. It protects the body by filtering microorganism and foreign particles from the lymp … hs. In addition it is responsible for carrying fats away from the digestive organs. Lymph is a fluid. It flows through the lymphatic vessels by one way  valves which allows lymph move way through lymphatic system.  Subclavian suction, and skeletal muscle pu … mps help to propel the  lymph through the lymphatic vessels. 18 people found this useful.
In the villi of the small intestine are lymphatic capillaries called lacteals. Lacteals are able to absorb fatty acids from the intestinal epithelium and transport them along with lymph. The fatty acids turn the lymph into a white, milky substance called chyle. 
Next. After digestion the glucose and amino acids are absorbed into the veins in small intestine whereas the fatty acids enter the lymph vessels? why is it so? why can't they enter the veins? These small vessels carry the reformed fat to the veins of the chest, and the blood carries the fat to storage depots in different parts of the body. Source(s): http://digestive.niddk.nih.gov/ddiseases... ilovemyfirefighter7 · 8 years ago. Thumbs up.