For other uses, see Candida. Candida is a genus of yeasts and is the most common cause of fungal infections worldwide. Many species are harmless commensals or endosymbionts of hosts including humans; however, when mucosal barriers are disrupted or the immune system is compromised they can invade and cause disease. Candida albicans is the most commonly isolated species, and can cause infections (candidiasis or thrush) in humans and other animals.
Photomicrograph of the fungus Candida albicans. Candidiasis is a fungal infection caused by yeasts that belong to the genus Candida. There are over 20 species of Candida yeasts that can cause infection in humans, the most common of which is Candida albicans. Candida yeasts normally live on the skin and mucous membranes without causing infection; however, overgrowth of these organisms can cause symptoms to develop. Candidiasis in the vagina is commonly referred to as a “ yeast infection .” invasive candidiasis occurs when Candida species enter the bloodstream and spread throughout the body. Click the links below for more information on the different types of Candida infections.
1 Dermatophytes cause almost all fungal toenail infections. 2  Yeasts are a type of fungus that grows on the skin and nails. 3  They are normally present on the human body. 4  Things like illness, antibiotic or birth control pill use, and immune system problems may allow an overgrowth of yeast, leading to a yeast infection. Fungal nail infections can be caused by three different types of fungus, alone or in combination. 1  Dermatophytes are a type of fungus that can grow on the skin, hair, and nails. 2  They don't invade the deeper tissues of the body.
Candidiasis Yeast Infection Overview. A yeast infection results from an overgrowth of yeast (a type of fungus) anywhere in the body. Candidiasis is by far the most common type of yeast infection. There are more than 20 species of Candida, the most common being Candida albicans. These fungi live on all surfaces of our bodies. 
Most cases of yeast infection in the United States are caused by Candida albicans. Yeast is the term for a fungus that exists as a single-celled organism rather than as hyphae. There are about 500 species of yeasts in 60 genera, or about 1000 species of yeasts or yeast-like organisms.
Overview. Candida is a strain of fungus that can cause an infection in your skin, among other locations. In normal conditions, your skin may host small amounts of this fungus, but problems arise when it begins to multiply and creates an overgrowth.
Candida is a genus of yeasts and is the most common cause of fungal infections worldwide. Candida albicans is the most commonly isolated species, and can cause infections (candidiasis or thrush) in humans and other animals.
1 Yeasts are a type of fungus that grows on the skin and nails. 2  They are normally present on the human body. 3  Things like illness, antibiotic or birth control pill use, and immune system problems may allow an overgrowth of yeast, leading to a yeast infection. Fungal nail infections can be caused by three different types of fungus, alone or in combination. 1  Dermatophytes are a type of fungus that can grow on the skin, hair, and nails. 2  They don't invade the deeper tissues of the body.
Candidiasis, more commonly known by most people as Candida, is a fungal infection. It is also a systemic infection in the sense that it can spread from one area of the body where the initial infection occurred to various other parts by travelling through the bloodstream. 