Definition. noun, plural: genera. (general) A class or group with common attributes. (biology) A taxonomic category ranking used in biological classification that is below a family and above a species level, and includes group(s) of species that are structurally similar or phylogenetically related. Supplement. In binomial nomenclature, the genus is used as the first word of a scientific name
In biology, a phylum (/ˈfaɪləm/ ; plural: phyla) is a taxonomic rank below kingdom and above class. Traditionally, in botany the term division was used instead of phylum, although from 1993 the International Code of Nomenclature for algae, fungi, and plants accepted the designation phylum. 
The word phylum (plural: phyla) is a category used to classify marine organisms. In this article, you can learn the definition of phylum, how it is used, and examples of phyla used to categorize marine life. 
phy·lum. n. pl. phy·la (-lə). 1. Biology A taxonomic category of organisms ranking below a kingdom and above a class. In the classification of plants, division often replaces phylum. 2. Linguistics A large division of possibly genetically related families of languages or linguistic stocks. 2. phylum - (biology) the major taxonomic group of animals and plants; contains classes. phylum Pyrrophyta, Pyrrophyta-a division of lower plants comprising unicellular and biflagellate algae that form starchy compounds.
subphylum - (biology) a taxonomic group ranking between a phylum and a class. class - (biology) a taxonomic group containing one or more orders. division - (botany) taxonomic unit of plants corresponding to a phylum. Translations. 2. phylum - (biology) the major taxonomic group of animals and plants; contains classes. phylum Pyrrophyta, Pyrrophyta-a division of lower plants comprising unicellular and biflagellate algae that form starchy compounds.
n. pl. phy·la (-lə). 1. Biology A taxonomic category of organisms ranking below a kingdom and above a class. In the classification of plants, division often replaces phylum. 2. Linguistics A large division of possibly genetically related families of languages or linguistic stocks. 2. phylum - (biology) the major taxonomic group of animals and plants; contains classes. phylum Pyrrophyta, Pyrrophyta-a division of lower plants comprising unicellular and biflagellate algae that form starchy compounds.
Full Definition of PHYLUM. 1. a: a direct line of descent within a group b: a group that constitutes or has the unity of a phylum; specifically: a primary category in biological taxonomy especially of animals that ranks above the class and below the kingdom — compare division 10. 2
Phylum. In biology, a phylum is a taxonomic rank below kingdom and above class. Traditionally, in botany the term division is used instead of phylum, although in 1993 the International Botanical Congress accepted the designation phylum. Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: phylum (Noun). A rank in the classification of organisms, below kingdom and above class; also called a division, especially in describing plants; a taxon at that rank. Mammals belong to the phylum Chordata. Origin: From phylum, from φῦλον.