Hydroponics. Hydroponics is a method of growing plants using mineral nutrient solutions, in water, without soil. The method can be implemented in places where the soil type is not ideal for the desired crop. 
Hydroponics is a subset of hydroculture, which is the growing of plants in a soil less medium, or an aquatic based environment. Hydroponic growing uses mineral nutrient solutions to feed the plants in water, without soil. For those of us who love growing plants these are exciting times indeed. As active hydroponic systems go, water culture is the simplest. The roots of the plant are totally immersed in the water which contains the specific Growth Technology nutrient solutions. An air pump with help oxygenate the water and allow the roots to breathe. NOTE.
Hydroponics is commonly described as growing plants without soil; however, this is not strictly true. A better definition would be that hydroponics is ‘providing all of the plant’s nutrient requirements in soluble form as you water’. Some believe hydroponics to be very complicated, but this need not be the case, it is only as difficult or complicated as you make it. There is no doubt it is a more efficient method of growing, but a problem will be seen more quickly and may be much worse.
Simply, hydroponics is the production of crops without soil. Hydroponics uses nutrient solutions and water delivery to grow food. With growing concerns about diminishing soil quality and water scarcity, hydroponics becomes more and more interesting to agricultural producers. Soil has been around for ages. 
Hydroponics is a subset of hydroculture and is a method of growing plants using mineral nutrient solutions, in water, without soil. Terrestrial plants may be grown with their roots in the mineral nutrient solution only, or in an inert medium, such as perlite or gravel. Gericke originally defined hydroponics as crop growth in mineral nutrient solutions. Hydroponics is a subset of soilless culture. Many types of soilless culture do not use the mineral nutrient solutions required for hydroponics.
Full Definition of HYDROPONICS. : the growing of plants in nutrient solutions with or without an inert medium (as soil) to provide mechanical support. — hy·dro·pon·ic \-nik\ adjective. — hy·dro·pon·i·cal·ly \-ni-k(ə-)lē\ adverb. ADVERTISEMENT. 
With hydroponics the plants are grown in an inert growing medium (see below) and a perfectly balanced, pH adjusted nutrient solution is delivered to the roots in a highly soluble form. The control of pH is extremely important, not only in hydroponics but in soil as well. Plants lose the ability to absorb different nutrients when the pH varies. (This topic is answered in much greater detail in the mini-class on pH in Hydroponics).
Post. Share. Hydroponics is the term used to describe growing without soil. It is also known as soil-less gardening. This includes the basic plant in a container of water, or a more intricate form of hydroponics, growing in a non-soil medium like gravel, sand, vermiculite, crushed rock bricks or even Styrofoam.
The two main types of hydroponics are solution culture and medium culture. Solution culture does not use a solid medium for the roots, just the nutrient solution. The three main types of solution cultures are static solution culture, continuous-flow solution culture and aeroponics. Gericke originally defined hydroponics as crop growth in mineral nutrient solutions. Hydroponics is a subset of soilless culture. Many types of soilless culture do not use the mineral nutrient solutions required for hydroponics.
The word, Hydroponic, comes from Latin and means working water. Simply put, it is the art of growing plants without soil. When most people think of hydroponics, they think of plants grown with their roots suspended directly into water with no growing medium. The control of pH is extremely important, not only in hydroponics but in soil as well. Plants lose the ability to absorb different nutrients when the pH varies. (This topic is answered in much greater detail in the mini-class on pH in Hydroponics).