It is important to note that you can spread the flu to others before your flu symptoms start and for another 3 to 4 days after your flu symptoms appear. Symptoms of the flu tend to start quickly and can include fever, chills, dry cough, and sore throat. It's easy to confuse a common cold with flu symptoms. However, cold symptoms are usually milder and don't last as long as the flu symptoms. If you become infected with the flu virus, you will usually feel flu symptoms 1 to 4 days later. It is important to note that you can spread the flu to others before your flu symptoms start and for another 3 to 4 days after your flu symptoms appear. (Click Flu Virus for more information about the flu.)
Symptoms usually appear 1 to 3 days after exposure. Influenza symptoms can include a sudden onset of fever, headache, chills, cough, sore throat, and body aches. Diarrhea is not common. Although most people are ill for less than a week, some people have complications and may need to be hospitalized.
Save. Flu symptoms can be seen as early as one day after exposure or as late as five days. Once symptoms occur, it is best to consult your doctor. The elderly and young children are more susceptible to the disease and are more likely to die from it. So early detection and treatment for them is critical. The flu is really called influenza and it is a very contagious infection of the lungs, throat and nose. Symptoms include muscle aches, fever, sore throat, runny nose, cough and headache. Because the flu has a tendency to change, it can be hard to treat and has caused pandemics in the past such as in 1918 and 1957.
Answer: So if you're around somebody who has the flu, and the next day you feel pretty good, you're not out of the woods yet. You can actually develop symptoms up to four to five days after being exposed to somebody who has the flu. 
You will typically begin to notice symptoms, such as a runny or stuffed-up nose, coughing or a scratchy throat about two or three days after you become infected with the virus that causes the common cold. Other symptoms of the common cold can include: sneezing, a fever, headaches, watery eyes and fatigue. 
FollowingUnfollow SUCCESS! FollowingUnfollow. cspencer. 5 Answers. 85 Helpful Votes. A. It takes approximately 24-48 hours for initial symptoms to appear after exposure to the influenza virus. If you suspect you have the flu, seek medical treatment quickly. Tamiflu, if taken within the first 48 hours of symptoms occurring, can reduce the time it takes to heal and can reduce symptoms. 
Children may pass the virus for longer than 7 days. Symptoms start 1 to 4 days after the virus enters the body. Information about how long a person is contagious is available at How Flu Spreads. Fever, chills, fatigue, body aches, sore throat, and headache are common symptoms of flu. Not everyone with flu will have a fever. The flu can cause mild to severe illness, and at times can lead to death. The flu is different from a cold. The flu usually comes on suddenly.
Symptoms of the Flu: An Overview. It's easy to confuse a common cold with flu symptoms. However, cold symptoms are usually milder and don't last as long as the flu symptoms. If you become infected with the flu virus, you will usually feel flu symptoms 1 to 4 days later. It is important to note that you can spread the flu to others before your flu symptoms start and for another 3 to 4 days after your flu symptoms appear. (Click Flu Virus for more information about the flu.). Symptoms of the flu tend to start quickly and can include fever, chills, dry cough, and sore throat. It's easy to confuse a common cold with flu symptoms.