It is calculated by dividing the hemoglobin by the hematocrit. Reference ranges for blood tests are 32 to 36 g/dL, or between 19.9 and 22.3 mmol/L. It is thus a mass or molar concentration. Still, many instances measure MCHC in percentage (%), as if it were a mass fraction (m Hb / m RBC). MCHC is elevated (hyperchromic) in hereditary spherocytosis, sickle cell disease and homozygous hemoglobin C disease. This count is used to give a rough guide to what shade of red erythrocytes will be (i.e., the paler the color the lower the MCHC will be than the standard).
A MCHC blood test is performed to test a person for anemia. MCHC (Mean Corpuscular Hemoglobin Concentration) is the calculation of the average hemoglobin inside a red blood cell. A MCHC test can be performed along with a MCV test (Mean Corpuscular Volume). Both levels are used to test people for anemia. The MCHC blood test is also known as the MCH blood test which tests the levels of hemoglobin in the blood. The MCHC blood test can be ordered as part of a complete blood count (CBC) test. Other components of the CBC test include White Blood Cell Count (WBC), Red Blood Cell Count (RBC), Platelet Count, Hemoglobin, MCV, Hematocrit and White Blood Cell Differential.
Indications/Applications. Mean corpuscular volume (MCV) laboratory test, as part of a standard complete blood count (CBC), is used along with other RBC indices (MCH and MCHC) to help classify the cause of anemia based on red cell morphology. See also the Interpretation section above. MCV is elevated or decreased in accordance with average red cell size; ie, low MCV indicates microcytic (small average RBC size), normal MCV indicates normocytic (normal average RBC size), and high MCV indicates macrocytic (large average RBC size). The reference range for MCV is 80-96 fL/red cell in adult.
1 Red blood cell indices. 2  There are three red blood cell indices: mean corpuscular volume (MCV), mean corpuscular hemoglobin (MCH), and mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration (MCHC). 3  They are measured by a machine, and their values come from other measurements in a CBC. 1 There are three red blood cell indices: mean corpuscular volume (MCV), mean corpuscular hemoglobin (MCH), and mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration (MCHC). 2  They are measured by a machine, and their values come from other measurements in a CBC. 3  The MCV shows the size of the red blood cells
A MCHC test is a test that is carried out to test a person for anemia. The MCHC in a MCHC test stands for Mean Corpuscular Hemoglobin Concentration. MCHC is the calculation of the average hemoglobin inside a red blood cell. A MCHC test can be performed along with a MCV test (Mean Corpuscular Volume). Both levels are used to test people for anemia. The MCHC test is also known as the MCH blood test which tests the levels of hemoglobin in the blood. The MCHC test can be ordered as part of a complete blood count (CBC) test. MCHC is measured in grams per deciliter. Normal readings for MCHC are 31 grams per deciliter to 35 grams per deciliter. A MCHC blood test may be ordered when a person is showing signs of fatigue or weakness, when there is an infection, is bleeding or bruising easily or when there is an inflammation.
A related value is mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration (MCHC), which is the average concentration of hemoglobin in a given volume of packed red blood cells, or in other words, the ratio of hemoglobin mass to the volume of red cells. The reference ranges for mean corpuscular hemoglobin and mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration are as follows: MCH: 27-33 picograms (pg)/cell in adults. MCHC: 33-36 g/dL in adults. Normal values may vary depending on the individual laboratory.
The mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration, a measure of the concentration of hemoglobin in a given volume of packed red blood cells. It is reported as part of a standard complete blood count. MCHC is elevated (hyperchromic) in hereditary spherocytosis, sickle cell disease and homozygous hemoglobin C disease. This count is used to give a rough guide to what shade of red erythrocytes will be (i.e., the paler the color the lower the MCHC will be than the standard).