Depends. Now of days, you can a lot of YOUNG kids saying they are boyfriend, girlfriend, but I would not really consider that your first relationship. The normal age, however, for an actual boyfriend, girlfriend relationship would be about your freshman year in high school, which is usually around the age of 14-15. Skaterr Prep · 8 years ago. Thumbs up. 2.
NBC. Americans are getting married later and later. The average age of first marriage in the United States is 27 for women and 29 for men, up from 23 for women and 26 for men in 1990 and 20 and 22 (!) in 1960. College-educated women are unlikely to have a child before getting married For college-educated women, the average age of first birth (30) has risen along with the average age of marriage (27). Only 12 percent of births by college graduates are to unmarried women.
In the United States, the average age for a girl to get her first period is 12. This does not mean that all girls start at the same age. A girl can start her period anytime between the ages of 8 and 15. Most of the time, the first period starts about 2 years after breasts first start to develop. If a girl has not had her first period by age 15, or if it has been more than 2 to 3 years since breast growth started, she should see a doctor.
In girls, puberty is commonly defined as breast development, growth of pubic hair and menarche, the beginning of the menstrual cycle. At the turn of the 20th century, the average age for an American girl to get her period was 16 to 17. 
In the United States, the average age for a girl to get her first period is 12. This does not mean that all girls start at the same age. A girl can start her period anytime between the ages of 8 and 15. Most of the time, the first period starts about 2 years after breasts first start to develop. If a girl has not had her first period by age 15, or if it has been more than 2 to 3 years since breast growth started, she should see a doctor.
It will take an average of 4 1/2 years from this point, with a range of 1 1/2 to 6 years). Take this as the starting point or adolescence. Here is the sequence and time frame of events for an average girl. The girl will also begin her growth spurt about this time. She will notice pubic hair about 6 months later. 
For women who dropped out of high school, the average age of first birth is 20, while the average marriage age is 25; 83 percent of first births in this demographic are to unmarried mothers. College-educated women are unlikely to have a child before getting married For college-educated women, the average age of first birth (30) has risen along with the average age of marriage (27). Only 12 percent of births by college graduates are to unmarried women.
For women who graduated from high school and went to some college, the average age for first birth is 24 and the average marriage age is 27; 58 percent of first births are to unwed mothers. College-educated women are unlikely to have a child before getting married For college-educated women, the average age of first birth (30) has risen along with the average age of marriage (27). Only 12 percent of births by college graduates are to unmarried women.
and by girlfriend and boyfriend i mean going to the movies, holding hands, kissing, hugging, etc. what grade/ age do u think its right to have a boyfriend/girlfriend im always arguing with my parents about this and i want some of your opinions. thankss. Update: im in seventh grade going into 8th. My parents say I'm not allowed a boyfriend until I'm 16, I understand this because they want to protect me like all parents pretty annoying, Ive just met this boy who I really love and it's mature I don't mean sex just it's not giggly I'm 13 in a week so guess around 13 is probably the minimum age x.
· just now. Report Abuse. well it depends how serious you want it, i mean my 7 year old brother is married! =)) he was going out with this girl for 3 days and now he is married its really cute!! haha! anyway...there really is no average age for a girlfriend, its ok you don't have one,and its also ok if you get one. 