1 Maria came to the von Trapp family in 1926 as a tutor for one of the children, Maria, who was recovering from scarlet fever, not as governess to all the children. 2  Maria and Georg married in 1927, 11 years before the family left Austria, not right before the Nazi takeover of Austria. 
Nationality Austrian. Rupert Georg von Trapp was a member of the Trapp Family Singers, whose lives were the inspiration for the play and film The Sound of Music. 
Born in 1915 in Zell am See, Austria, Mr. von Trapp was the fourth child and second son of Capt. Georg von Trapp and his first wife, Agathe Whitehead. In the movie The Sound of Music, Werner von Trapp was depicted by the character named Kurt. MONTPELIER, Vt., Oct. 14 (AP) Werner von Trapp, a member of the family made famous by the stage musical and the 1965 movie The Sound of Music, died Thursday at his home in Waitsfield, Vt.
In the same year, he graduated from the University of Vermont. Rupert von Trapp became a naturalized United States citizen in 1948. He and Henriette went on to have six children: Francoise, George, Monique, Elizabeth Tizzy, Christopher, and Stephanie. Rupert married his second wife, Janice Tyre (1920–1996) around 1960.
Without the real von Trapp Family, there would be no Sound of Music, as the movie was based on this family’s extraordinary life. We could start The Sound of Music true story with the real Maria von Trapp, then Maria Augusta Kutschera, who was born on a train going to Vienna. She became an orphan at a young age, and was brought up by a distant relative.
Maria Franziska von Trapp, the last surviving sibling of the original singing von Trapp family whose story inspired The Sound of Music, has died in Vermont. She was 99 years old. A spokeswoman at the Trapp Family Lodge in Stowe, Vt., confirmed she died Tuesday. Maria had a wonderful life and we will miss her. Maria Franziska was the last surviving member of the original seven von Trapp children. Oldest daughter Agathe von Trapp, the inspiration for Liesl in The Sound of Music, died in 2012 at the age of 97.
Before The Sound of Music, the von Trapp story was told by the Germans in two films, Die Trapp Familie (The Trapp Family) in 1956 and Die Trapp Familie in Amerika in 1958, both of which were written by Herbert Reinecker and directed by Wolfgang Liebeneiner. Agathe Von Trapp. Agathe von Trapp, known as Leisl in the movie The Sound of Music, was born in Pola in the former Austro-Hungarian Empire. Her mother died of Scarlet Fever when Agathe was only 10 years old. Agathe’s siblings describe her as shy and private.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Rupert Georg von Trapp, M.D. (1 November 1911 – 22 February 1992) was the firstborn child and eldest son of Georg and Agatha (nee Née) whitehead Von. Trapp he was a member of The Trapp Family, singers whose lives were the inspiration for the play and Film The sound Of. music Rupert von Trapp became a naturalized United States citizen in 1948. He and Henriette went on to have six children: Francoise, George, Monique, Elizabeth Tizzy, Christopher, and Stephanie. Rupert married his second wife, Janice Tyre (1920–1996) around 1960.
This is where the Sound of Music starts the story of Maria’s life….. Baron Georg Ritter von Trapp, recently widowed with seven children, Rupert, Agathe, Maria, Werner, Hedwig, Johanna and Martina, needed a governess for one of his children, also called Maria, who was weak with rheumatic fever. We could start The Sound of Music true story with the real Maria von Trapp, then Maria Augusta Kutschera, who was born on a train going to Vienna. She became an orphan at a young age, and was brought up by a distant relative.