Chrysoprase is a valuable stone which is a variety of chalcedony, a type of quartz. The colours of Chrysoprase vary depending on the nickel present in them. Gold or yellowish green coloured stones were common during the past but at present apple green Chrysoprase are widely common. 
Chrysoprase, chrysophrase or chrysoprasus is a gemstone variety of chalcedony (a cryptocrystalline form of silica) that contains small quantities of nickel. Its color is normally apple-green, but varies to deep green. The darker varieties of chrysoprase are also referred to as prase. Chrysoprase is cryptocrystalline, which means that it is composed of crystals so fine that they cannot be seen as distinct particles under normal magnification.
About Chrysoprase-History and Introduction. Chrysoprase is a distinct gemstone quality variety of chalcedony quartz, a cryptocrystalline form of silicon dioxide. Chrysoprase is highly prized for its opalescent minty, apple-green color, which is especially unique and is owed to its distinctive coloring agent. 
Chrysoprase is one of the Star Signs for Gemini. The gemstone Chrysoprase is an opalescent apple green colored variety of chalcedony (quartz). Most green stones owe their color to chromium or vanadium, but chrysoprase derives its color from the nickel content. Chrysoprase was used by the Greeks, Romans, and the Egyptians in jewelry and other ornamental objects and because of its semi-opaque green color, it is often mistaken for Imperial jadeite.
The Gemstone Chrysoprase. Chrysoprase is the green variety of Chalcedony. Its color ranges from a light, minty-green to a deep apple-green. The unique, rich color of Chrysoprase is caused by impurities of nickel, as this gemstone most frequently originates in nickel-rich Serpentine deposits. Once the color reaches a dark threshold, the gemstone is no longer identified as Chrysoprase, but rather as a variety of Chalcedony known as Prase. Lighter-colored Chrysoprase is a much more popular gemstone material over dark green Prase.The transparency of Chrysoprase ranges from translucent to nearly opaque.
Green Chrysoprase is a delightful stone of the green ray. It is a variety of chalcedony, which is a type of quartz, and is one of the more valuable stones of this group. It brings through the vibration of Divine Truth, and promotes joy and happiness, while healing the heart of energies of depression and anxiety. The meaning of Chrysoprase comes from two words, chrys being the Greek for 'gold or yellow' and prase from the Greek for 'leek', referring to the green coloring of it. The colors of the natural stone varies, depending on how much nickel there is them.
Chrysoprase. Chrysoprase is chalcedony (microcrystalline quartz) whose rich green color is derived from the presence of minute particles of a nickel containing mineral, willemseite. The derivation of its beautiful color is, then, analogous to chrysocolla chalcedony's coloration by particles of the copper mineral chrysocolla. 
Chrysoprase stone is the most valuable variety of chalcedony. It is translucent, apple-green gemstone. The name of the mineral is derived from the Greek words chrysos meaning gold and prasos meaning leek.. Indeed, chrysoprase is usually green or bluish-green color, which is determined by nickel compounds. 
Chrysoprase-The Different Colors, Shapes and Sizes. Chrysoprase is a very rare form of quartz. Its most striking attribute is its beautiful color, that of a green apple. However it should be noted that Chrysoprase also comes in a very dark green. Chrysoprase contains traces of nickel; the nickel that is found inside the Chrysoprase is what gives it its color. The Uses of Chrysoprase. Chrysoprase is a very rare and beautiful gemstone; it usually has an apple green color or at times takes on a deep green color. Chrysoprase is a type of quartz, it contains a slight amount of nickel which gives it its color and at times is confused with Jade.