Confidence votes 40.5K. It is mostly eliminated waste that is deprived of most nutrients and energy (e.g., protein, fat, vitamins and carbohydrates) that your body has absorbed and used during the digestive process. It is made up of digested and also undigested food with 67% solid material. The other 33-34% is comprised of liquids that have not been absorbed. Some of the solids are also unused fats, undigested food particles, roughage, and fiber
Human feces (or faeces in British English; Latin: faex) fæx are the (feces solid waste) products of the human digestive, system including. Bacteria they vary significantly in (appearance.i. e, size, colour), texture according to the state of the digestive, system diet and general. health This is a normal occurrence when a prior bowel movement is incomplete, and feces are returned from the rectum to the intestine, where water is absorbed. Human feces together with human urine are collectively referred to as human waste or human excreta. Containing human feces, and preventing spreading of pathogens from human feces via the fecal-oral route, are the main goals of sanitation.
Throughout the life of an ordinary human, one may experience many types of feces. A green stool is from rapid transit of feces through the intestines (or the consumption of certain blue or green food dyes in quantity), and clay-like appearance to the feces is the result of a lack of bilirubin. Although it is lower in energy than the food from which it is derived, feces may retain a large amount of energy, often 50% of that of the original food. This means that of all food eaten, a significant amount of energy remains for the decomposers of ecosystems.
Feces (US) or faeces (UK), also known by many other names, is a solid waste product from an animal digestive tract, discharged through the anus or cloaca during a process called defecation. Urine and feces together are called excreta. Although it is lower in energy than the food from which it is derived, feces may retain a large amount of energy, often 50% of that of the original food. This means that of all food eaten, a significant amount of energy remains for the decomposers of ecosystems.
its recovery of water from the undigested remains in colon results in the formation of feaces, it s a semi-solid waste. Fibre cannot be digested at all. It gives y … our food bulk so that your digestive system can push on it. Most of faeces (poo) is made up of fibre. Feces or fecal matter is undigested waste your body doesn't need with little or no nutritional value, excrement, or poop. 15 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: The question and answer are locked and cannot be edited.
It continues down the intestines into the large intestines. The large intestines continue to pull liquid out of the feces. Once the feces is through the large intestines, it waits at the bottom, in your rectum, until you make a bowel movement. After food has been passed through the small intestine, it enters the large intestine, or colon. Feces or fecal matter is undigested waste your body doesn't need with little or no nutritional value, excrement, or poop. 15 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: The question and answer are locked and cannot be edited.
The Bristol stool scale is a medical aid designed to classify the form of human feces into seven categories. Sometimes referred to in the UK as the Meyers Scale, it was developed by K. W. Heaton at the University of Bristol and was first published in the Scandinavian Journal of Gastroenterology in 1997. This is a normal occurrence when a prior bowel movement is incomplete, and feces are returned from the rectum to the intestine, where water is absorbed. Human feces together with human urine are collectively referred to as human waste or human excreta. Containing human feces, and preventing spreading of pathogens from human feces via the fecal-oral route, are the main goals of sanitation
Feces is made by your digestive system. When you first take a bite of food, the process starts. The saliva in your mouth starts to break down the food. Feces or fecal matter is undigested waste your body doesn't need with little or no nutritional value, excrement, or poop. 15 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: The question and answer are locked and cannot be edited.
Other terms for feces are poop, excrement, turds, caca, stool, BM, or poo but most of these are crude and some are even considered vulgar. There can also be bad bacteria in feces which is why you are always told to wash your hands after using the restroom. It is made up of digested and also undigested food with 67% solid material.