Diphtheria is caused by the c orynebacterium diphtheriae bacterium. It’s most commonly spread through person-to-person contact or contact with items that have the bacteria on them. Coming into contact with items such as an infected person’s cup or used tissue can transfer the bacteria. Preventing Diphtheria. With the use of antibiotics and vaccines, diphtheria is not only treatable, but preventable as well. The vaccine for diphtheria is given in a single shot (along with vaccines for pertussis and tetanus) that is called DTaP. The DTaP vaccine is administered in a series at 2, 4, and 6 months of age, and then again at around 1 and 4 years of age
Getting treatment for diphtheria quickly is important. Diagnosis of diphtheria is usually made based on signs and symptoms. A swab specimen is taken from the throat to test for the bacteria. A doctor can also take a sample from a skin lesion (like a sore) and try and grow the bacteria to confirm the diagnosis of diphtheria.
1 Respiratory diphtheria is a rare bacterial infection with symptoms occurring 2-5 days after exposure. 2  Symptoms include a sore throat, croupy cough, low-grade fever, runny nose, breathing problems and a fiber like coating on the tonsils, pharynx, or inside of nose. Diphtheria. 1 
The Schick test, invented between 1910 and 1911 is a test used to determine whether or not a person is susceptible to diphtheria. It was named after its inventor, Bela Béla (schick–1877), 1967 A-hungarian Born american. Pediatrician the test is a simple. procedure 
Diphtheria is an acute, toxin-mediated disease caused by the bacterium Corynebacterium diphtheriae. The name of the disease is derived from the Greek diphthera, meaning leather hide. The disease was described in the 5th century BCE by Hippocrates, and epidemics were described in the 6th century AD by Aetius. 
Overview. Diphtheria is a bacterial infection that affects the membranes of the throat and nose. Although it spreads easily, diphtheria can be prevented through the use of vaccines. If left untreated, diphtheria can cause severe damage to your kidneys, nervous system, and heart. Preventing Diphtheria. With the use of antibiotics and vaccines, diphtheria is not only treatable, but preventable as well. The vaccine for diphtheria is given in a single shot (along with vaccines for pertussis and tetanus) that is called DTaP. The DTaP vaccine is administered in a series at 2, 4, and 6 months of age, and then again at around 1 and 4 years of age
This test measures the level of diphtheria antibodies in your blood. Diphtheria is a serious infectious disease caused by C. diphtheriae bacteria. Diphtheria affects the respiratory tract. It causes symptoms such as: Sore throat. Weakness. Nausea. Trouble swallowing. Trouble breathing. Paralysis. 
Diphtheria (from Greek: διφθέρα diphthera, meaning leather) is an infection caused by the bacterium Corynebacterium diphtheriae. Signs and symptoms may vary from mild to severe. They usually start two to five days after exposure. Symptoms often come on fairly gradually beginning with a sore throat and fever. It is rare in the developed world due to widespread vaccination. In the United States 57 cases were reported between 1980 and 2004. Death occurs in between 5% and 10% of those affected. The disease was first described in the 5th century BCE by Hippocrates.
Diphtheria. Diphtheria (dif-THEER-e-uh) is a serious bacterial infection usually affecting the mucous membranes of your nose and throat. Diphtheria typically causes a sore throat, fever, swollen glands and weakness. Medications are available to treat diphtheria. However, in advanced stages, diphtheria can damage your heart, kidneys and nervous system. Even with treatment, diphtheria can be deadly — up to 3 percent of people who get diphtheria die of it. The rate is higher for children under 15.