An electric circuit can be a “closed” circuit, where the power flows, or an “open” circuit where the power is interrupted. In the Normally Closed circuit, power flows out until the relay is activated, which interrupts the power, and when the relay deactivates, the power is on again. So, if the valve is open when it comes out of the box, it would be wired it to the relay’s Normally Closed circuit, and if the valve is closed when it comes out of the box it would be wired it to the relay’s Normally Open circuit.
Relays are switches that open and close circuits electromechanically or electronically. Relays control one electrical circuit by opening and closing contacts in another circuit. As relay diagrams show, when a relay contact is normally open (NO), there is an open contact when the relay is not energized. When a relay contact is Normally Closed (NC), there is a closed contact when the relay is not energized. The Control Circuit is the part of the relay that determines when the output component is energized or de-energized. The control circuit functions as the coupling between the input and output circuits. In electromechanical relays, the coil accomplishes this function.
In a closed electrical circuit, the things turn on and work. In an open electrical circuit, the things do not turn on and do not work. All parts of the electrical circuit are on at the same time when it is closed and all parts of the electrical circuit are off at the same time when it is open.
Normally Closed vs. Normally Open The circuit part of the relay has two ways to which the wires leaving the relay can be connected, as either “Normally Closed” or as “Normally Open”. On the connector these two options are indicated as “NC” and “NO” as seen in Figure 1. So, if the valve is open when it comes out of the box, it would be wired it to the relay’s Normally Closed circuit, and if the valve is closed when it comes out of the box it would be wired it to the relay’s Normally Open circuit.
A switch is a component which controls the open-ness or closed-ness of an electric circuit. They allow control over current flow in a circuit (without having to actually get in there and manually cut or splice the wires). Switches are critical components in any circuit which requires user interaction or control. A circuit diagram with an LED, resistor, and a switch. When the switch is closed, current flows and the LED can illuminate. Otherwise no current flows, and the LED receives no power. There are tons and tons of switches out there: toggle, rotary, DIP, push-button, rocker, membrane, … the list just goes on and on.
1 Break-This is the number of separate places or contacts that a switch uses to open or close a single electrical circuit. 2  All contacts are either single break or double break. 3  A single break (SB) contact breaks an electrical circuit in one place, while a double break (DB) contact breaks it in two places. The Control Circuit is the part of the relay that determines when the output component is energized or de-energized. The control circuit functions as the coupling between the input and output circuits. In electromechanical relays, the coil accomplishes this function.
Report Abuse. Normally-open and normally-closed refer to the state of a switch or valve when nothing is being done to actuate it. In the case if an electrically operated relay or valve, it means when there is no power to the coil. In the case of a pushbutton switch, it means when there is no one pushing it, etc... N.O. means Normally Open when the relay coil is NOT energized. N.C. means Normally Closed when the relay coil is NOT energized. Energizing the relay coil reverses that state. Pretty sure that explanation is correct.
When the relay is energized, the contacts open, turning the light off.9. Switch Symbols Various types of switches are also used in control circuits. Like the contacts just discussed, switches can also be normally open or normally closed and require another device or action to change their state. In the case of a manual switch, someone must change the position of the switch.
A normally open is one that is an open circuit until you put voltage and a signal to it. A normally closed relay is one that is a complete circuit and therefore allows voltage to pass through it until it gets a signal and then it opens the circuit. 
Instead, these diagrams show contacts as either normally open (NO) or normally closed (NC) . The standard method of showing contacts is to indicate the circuit condition produced when the actuating device is in the de-energized (off) state. For example, in the following illustration, the contacts are part of a relay. Switch Symbols Various types of switches are also used in control circuits. Like the contacts just discussed, switches can also be normally open or normally closed and require another device or action to change their state. In the case of a manual switch, someone must change the position of the switch.