Vegemite. Delicious Australian spread, made from used brewer's yeast. Non-Australians tend to give descriptions of it similar to 'tastes like a mixture of salt and battery acid'. This is because they are wimps, and need to drink more beer, eat more pies, and of course, eat more Vegemite.
A. VEGEMITE is certified Halal by The Australian Federation of Islamic Councils. VEGEMITE is made on a dedicated production line and does not contain or come into contact with any animal derived ingredients and the yeast in the product has been processed to ensure the product is alcohol free. 
A spread for sandwiches, toast, crumpets and cracker biscuits as well as a filling for pastries, Vegemite is similar to British, New Zealand and South African Marmite, Australian Promite, Swiss Cenovis and German Hefeextrakt. Vegemite is salty, slightly bitter, malty, and rich in umami – similar to beef bouillon.
It is similar to British and New Zealand Marmite and to Swiss Cenovis. Vegemite is made from leftover brewers' yeast extract, a by-product of beer manufacturing, and various vegetable and spice additives. The taste may be described as salty, slightly bitter, and malty — somewhat similar to the taste of beef bouillon. The texture is smooth and sticky, much like peanut butter. 
How to Enjoy Vegemite. Vegemite is an iconic Australian spread. It is made from what is left over in the vat after brewing the beer. It basically consists of dormant yeast, boiled-down vegetable stock, and lots of salt. Although many Australians enjoy it, it is definitely an acquired taste.
Vegemite (/ˈvɛdʒɨmaɪt/ VEJ-ə-myt) is a dark brown Australian food paste made from leftover brewers' yeast extract with various vegetable and spice additives developed by Cyril P. Callister in Melbourne, Victoria, in 1922. Vegemite is salty, slightly bitter, malty, and rich in umami – similar to beef bouillon.
A Vegemite sandwich to an Australian kid is the equivalent of a peanut butter and jelly sandwich to an American kid-but the taste is QUITE different! Vegemite is one of several yeast extract spreads sold in Australia. It is made from leftover brewers' yeast extract (a by-product of beer manufacture) and various vegetable and spice additives. 
Vegemite is made from yeast extract and is very popular as a sandwich spread especially with Australian children. A teaspoon of vegemite is also great for bringing out t … he flavour in mushrooms when they are being cooked. Robin Harris. 
Marmite is made from yeast extract, a by-product of beer brewing. Other similar products include the Australian Vegemite, which is saltier in taste, the Swiss Cenovis and the German Vitam-R. 