For more than 38 years, Gleaners Community Food Bank has been feeding hungry people and nourishing our communities.” Last year, Gleaners distributed 34 million pounds of emergency food to more than 510 partner soup kitchens, shelters and pantries in Wayne, Oakland, Macomb, Livingston and Monroe counties. “We chose to volunteer at Gleaners because of all the great work they do in the community. We feel compelled to give back to families who are less fortunate. On a personal note, I was a recipient of food bank food when my twin daughters were first born
Volunteer. “We chose to volunteer at Gleaners because of all the great work they do in the community. We feel compelled to give back to families who are less fortunate. On a personal note, I was a recipient of food bank food when my twin daughters were first born
The Gleaners is one of Millet's best known works. Its imagery of bending peasant women gleaning was paraphrased frequently in works by younger artists such as Pissarro, Renoir, Seurat, and van Gogh. The Gleaners is an example of Realism. Millet worked to capture the true essence of what these women’s jobs were. He did not try to idealize the image, but instead he captured the “ugliness” of poverty and manual labor.
The Gleaners (Des glaneuses) is an oil painting by Jean-Francois François millet completed in. 1857 The Gleaners is an example of Realism. Millet worked to capture the true essence of what these women’s jobs were. He did not try to idealize the image, but instead he captured the “ugliness” of poverty and manual labor.
Mission. Gleaners Community Food Bank, with broad community support, fights hunger in southeastern Michigan. In collaboration with our member agencies, the Feeding America network, and our program partners, we provide millions of pounds of donated and purchased food to people in need. 
Des glaneuses also called Les glaneuses [Gleaners, also called, The Gleaners]. True to one of Millet's favourite subjects – peasant life – this painting is the culmination of ten years of research on the theme of the gleaners. These women incarnate the rural working-class.
What We Do. For more than 38 years, Gleaners Community Food Bank has been feeding hungry people and nourishing our communities.” Last year, Gleaners distributed 34 million pounds of emergency food to more than 510 partner soup kitchens, shelters and pantries in Wayne, Oakland, Macomb, Livingston and Monroe counties. Starting now through Tuesday, October 6, your generous donation, along with Weingartz 100% matching donation, will help us mow down hunger in our own backyard. Please join the Weingartz family and help us feed our hungry neighbors.
Millet's The Gleaners was also not perceived well due to its enormous size. The size of the painting is 33 inches by 44 inches or 2.75 feet by 3.7 feet. This is huge for a painting depicting labor. Normally this size of a canvas was reserved for religious or mythological style paintings. The Gleaners is an example of Realism. Millet worked to capture the true essence of what these women’s jobs were. He did not try to idealize the image, but instead he captured the “ugliness” of poverty and manual labor.