show more I am flying to Seattle, Washington tomorrow from Chicago. I was talking to my dad and he said that you aren't allowed to put your carry-on under the seat in front of you anymore because they found someone in Detroit, Michigan trying to set something off on the plane that was in his carry-on.
There is a reason your bags must be stowed under the seat in front of you, especially in the bulk head, not jammed under the seat your sitting in. Well actually there are two reasons … 1) The bag must go under the seat in front of you for safety reasons.
1 Without a seat in front of you, there is no under-seat stowage for a carry-on bag. 2  While you can have your bags in front of you during the flight, Flight Attendants will not allow you to keep any bags in front of you during take-off and landing.
I tested new ways to ensure I get my bags on the plane and, more recently, that they can fit underneath the seat in front of me if necessary. After four years of practice, I can pack for a two week week trip and fit everything into a tiny space. In this post, we'll look at how.
When boarding a flight, any commercial airline flight, from any airport in the world, you hear the same message … “ Please place your carry on item under the seat in front of you. For those seated in the bulkhead, please place your bags in the overhead bin for take off and landing.”.
Few bags provide more flexibility than—or cost as little as—the duffel. For around $30, you can get a malleable carrier that houses about as much as a carry-on suitcase. As a result, size isn't paramount because you can fill a portion of the bag and squeeze it under the seat with little effort.
Do not place your bags in the overhead at the front of the plane unless you are sitting in that row. Don't put your bag in a bin near the front of the plane for a quick exit -- it means someone else will have to wait until the entire plane has emptied to walk back to get their bag.
No space for bags. In a “normal” seat, you’ll have room for your bags under the seat in front of you. Having quick access to your bag means you can reach for your MP3 player, bottle of water or laptop. Without this space, you’ll need to store your bag in an overhead bin – which may not always be right above you.
The space under Southwest seats in a 737-800 are 19 inches deep, 19 inches wide and about 9.5 inches tall. Southwest carry-on baggage may not be larger than 24 x 16 x 10, but if you are bringing carry-on baggage that large, you shouldn't expect to be able to place it under the seat.