Anywhere from a few hours to a few days after consuming contaminated food is the typical timeframe for experiencing symptoms of food poisoning. Although these symptoms may vary and may be mistaken with symptoms of other illnesses, the cramping, watery diarrhea, and vomiting may be part of the ordeal of food poisoning. 1 Give your stomach a break by not consuming food or drink for a few hours; 2  When you start eating again, eat bland foods and avoid dairy, caffeine, alcohol, nicotine, and spicy foods; 3  Sip small amounts of liquids like water, clear broth, or clear soda;
Yes, this is possible. If you have food poisoning symptoms, they are not necessarily from the meal you just ate. In fact, symptoms for the most common pathogens do not appear for up to 12 hours after eating the contaminated food, and can appear up to a week later. 
It depends on the type of food poisoning. Food poisoning caused by a preformed toxin (S aureus or B cereus), symptoms can begin quite rapidly (1-24 hrs). Those that are caused by an infection from a bacterial/viral agent, symptoms may not appear till after 24 hours. Best Answer: There is some variability depending on the person, other foods eaten and the type of bacteria ingested. In general, food poisoning will take effect between about 6 hours 24 hours after eating. In most cases, the symptoms can last for a day or two but can last much longer in certain cases. Some types of bacteria are much more dangerous. If you symptoms last beyond two days or continue to worsen in severity see a doctor
1 Symptoms can last from one day up to a couple of months or longer, depending on the type of infection. 2  Vomiting, diarrhea, sweating, dizziness, tearing in the eyes, excessive salivation, mental confusion, and stomach pain may be symptoms of chemical or toxin food poisoning such as that from poisonous mushrooms. 1 After eating tainted food, abdominal cramps, diarrhea, and vomiting, can start as early as one hour in the case of staph and as late as 10 days in the case of campylobacter.
It is the toxins that make you sick. If you reheat the food, the bacteria will die but the toxins will still be there and they will still make you sick. With this type of food poisoning, you usually vomit anytime from immediately after eating to 7 hours later. Some people also get diarrhea. Bacillus cereus can also cause diarrhea that strikes 6-15 hours after eating. There is also a type of non-contagious food poisoning caused by the bacteria Clostridium perfringens3. It causes intense abdominal cramps and diarrhea 8-22 hours after ingestion and lasts about 24 hours. 
1 Stools that are black, tarry, or bloody. 2  You recognize symptoms of chemical or toxin food poisoning, such as vomiting, diarrhea, sweating, dizziness, tearing in the eyes, excessive salivation, mental confusion, and stomach pain, beginning about 30 minutes after eating contaminated food. 1 After eating tainted food, abdominal cramps, diarrhea, and vomiting, can start as early as one hour in the case of staph and as late as 10 days in the case of campylobacter.
1 You recognize symptoms of chemical or toxin food poisoning, such as vomiting, diarrhea, sweating, dizziness, tearing in the eyes, excessive salivation, mental confusion, and stomach pain, beginning about 30 minutes after eating contaminated food. 1 After eating tainted food, abdominal cramps, diarrhea, and vomiting, can start as early as one hour in the case of staph and as late as 10 days in the case of campylobacter.
While food poisoning symptoms usually go away in one to two days, symptoms may last for up to ten days. Immediately contact a health care provider if you experience high fever (a temperature of 101.5F or more), bloody stools, dehydration, and diarrhea lasting more than three days. 1 Give your stomach a break by not consuming food or drink for a few hours; 2  When you start eating again, eat bland foods and avoid dairy, caffeine, alcohol, nicotine, and spicy foods; 3  Sip small amounts of liquids like water, clear broth, or clear soda;
Introduction. Food poisoning occurs when you eat food contaminated with bacteria or other toxins. Symptoms include diarrhea, vomiting, and stomach cramps, and generally start 4 to 36 hours after eating contaminated food. While food poisoning is often caused by bacteria, it can also result from eating poisonous plants (some mushrooms, for instance) and animals (pufferfish). 