Nerve blocks are used to treat chronic pain when drugs or other treatments do not control pain or cause bad side effects. A test block is usually performed with local anesthetic. If you achieve good pain relief from the local anesthetic, your doctor may inject a nerve block, such as alcohol or phenol. It is done by injecting a substance, such as alcohol or phenol, into or around a nerve or into the spine. Nerve blocks may be used for several purposes, such as: 1  To determine the source of pain. 2  To treat painful conditions.
A nerve block injection: 1  Relieves pain by interrupting how pain signals are sent to your brain. 2  Is an anesthetic or anti-inflammatory medicine which blocks pain signals coming from a specific area of the body or reduces inflammation in that area. 
A nerve root block is usually ordered by your doctor for pain in the arm or leg that follows the path of a single nerve. A nerve root block may be diagnostic (a test to determine the source of your pain) and/or therapeutic (to relieve your pain). What is a nerve root block? A nerve root block is an injection of local anesthetic (numbing medicine) and steroid injected under X-ray guidance into the area where the nerve exits the spinal column.
A. Nerve blocks are used for pain treatment and management. Often a group of nerves, called a plexus or ganglion, that causes pain to a specific organ or body region can be blocked with the injection of medication into a specific area of the body. The injection of this nerve-numbing substance is called a nerve block. Types of Nerve Blocks. Various areas of pain require different nerve block types. Below are a few of the available nerve blocks and some parts of the body where they are used.
A nerve block is the injection of numbing medication (local anesthetic) near specific nerves to decrease your pain in a certain part of your body during and after surgery. This depends on the type of block performed and the type of numbing medication used. For example, nerve blocks for hand surgery usually last for 6-8 hours, but a nerve block for pain after total knee replacement can last for 12-24 hours.
A nerve block relieves pain by interrupting how pain signals are sent to your brain. It is done by injecting a substance, such as alcohol or phenol, into or around a nerve or into the spine. Nerve blocks may be used for several purposes, such as: 1  To determine the source of pain. 2  To treat painful conditions.
1 Therapeutic nerve blocks are used to treat painful conditions. 2  Such nerve blocks contain local anesthetic that can be used to control acute pain. 3  Diagnostic nerve blocks are used to determine sources of pain. 4  These blocks typically contain an anesthetic with a known duration of relief. Types of Nerve Blocks. Various areas of pain require different nerve block types. Below are a few of the available nerve blocks and some parts of the body where they are used.
A Nerve Block is a procedure performed by a pain management physician to anesthetize or numb a particular nerve in the body to treat certain forms of chronic pain. A Nerve Block involves the injection of a local anesthetic like Lidocaine or Bupivicaine onto a target nerve or group of nerves. An example of a therapeutic nerve block used to treat chronic pain is the Stellate Ganglion Block, performed in the front of the neck to treat Complex Regional Pain Syndrome (CRPS or RSD). The local anesthetic works by interrupting conduction of electrical impulses along the target nerve for a limited period of time. 
A nerve block is an anesthetic or anti-inflammatory injection targeted toward a certain nerve or group of nerves to treat pain. The purpose of the injection is to turn off a pain signal coming from a specific location in the body or to decrease inflammation in that area. A nerve block is an injection to decrease inflammation or turn off a pain signal in a specific area. Imaging guidance may be used to place the needle in the right location for maximum benefit.