The Route Sales Representative is a full-time position that is responsible for selling and merchandising Frito-Lay's complete line of quality products to existing and new accounts while driving a Frito-Lay truck. Route Sales Representative's hours of work vary by assigned route. 
You may love it. The upside is that you can make really good money with Frito Lay. I made $53,000 my last year with the company. Sounds like you are definitely in the running for a job. I don't think there is a set time as long as you can make your cut off times at your grocery stores which is usually 1 o'clock. RSR's average $40-$60 per year, but I think it's safe to say most drivers average in the $40's. The best routes are the ones with the higher volume grocery stores.
$ 52000 average retail sales representative frito lay salaries for job postings in bakersfield ca are 15 % lower than average retail sales representative frito lay salaries for job postings nationwide
Frito Lay is owned by PepsiCo Incorporated. A ticker symbol for Frito Lay by itself does not exist but the ticker symbol for PepsiCo is PEP and it trades on the New York Stock … Exchange.    Note: Frito Lay contributes approximately 30% to the bottom line of Pepsi.
Answers. Best Answer: from one of their postings: The Route Sales Representative is a full-time position that is responsible for selling and merchandising Frito-Lay's complete line of quality products to existing and new accounts while driving a Frito-Lay truck. Route Sales Representative's hours of work vary by assigned route. Should I go to work for Frito Lay as a Route Sales Representative? I currently work for BNSF railway and was thinking of taking a job working for Frito Lay as a RSR.
77 months ago. I use to work for Frito Lay, and that overtime you are asking about is something the guys use to call Chinese overtime. You do get paid for hours over forty, but it only amounts to like $2-3 an hour. I don't think there is a set time as long as you can make your cut off times at your grocery stores which is usually 1 o'clock. RSR's average $40-$60 per year, but I think it's safe to say most drivers average in the $40's. The best routes are the ones with the higher volume grocery stores.
Average Frito Lay Salaries. The average salary for frito lay jobs is $50,000. Average frito lay salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. This salary was calculated using the average salary for all jobs with the term frito lay anywhere in the job listing.
Frito-Lay Salary. Frito-Lay average salary is $86,081, median salary is $86,200 with a salary range from $30,727 to $153,900. Frito-Lay salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position. Frito-Lay salary statistics is not exclusive and is for reference only. 
What is the salary of an HR generalist at Frito Lay?   The highest paying Frito-Lay North America salary is that of the Human Resources Generalist at $115,000 per year, while the lowest paying Frito-Lay North America is ETM … Test Analyst at $52,550 per year. A ticker symbol for Frito Lay by itself does not exist but the ticker symbol for PepsiCo is PEP and it trades on the New York Stock … Exchange.    Note: Frito Lay contributes approximately 30% to the bottom line of Pepsi.