west georgia has a great atmosphere and does a good job of making you feel at home. academically it is a very good school and the teachers really care about the students. you will not leave the university of west georgia without pride in your school. University of West Georgia is a great school for students who are want a campus that is a nice size, but everyone is tight-knit. Although there are a lot of students, West Georgia does a great job with making you feel comfortable.
In 1933 the school's name (Fourth District Agricultural and Mechanical School) was changed to West Georgia College and it became a two-year institution. West Georgia became a four-year institution in 1957. The University of West Georgia is a comprehensive doctoral-granting university in Carrollton, Georgia, approximately 45 miles (80 km) west of Atlanta, Georgia.
I got here expecting to be challenged academically, but West Georgia challenged me in other ways. West Georgia has a pretty good social life if you socialize and get to know people. Carrollton GA is kind of rural but UWG is a good party school. Most of the students here party around at least 3 times a week. Since the school is not that big everybody pretty much knows everybody. That can be both good and bad, depending on your ability to balance your social life with your academics.
UWG, a charter member of the University System of Georgia, is a comprehensive, residential institution providing selectively focused undergraduate and graduate education primarily to the people of West Georgia. At this school, 29 percent of the students live in college-owned, -operated, or-affiliated housing and 71 percent of students live off campus. University of West Georgia is part of the NCAA II athletic conference.
University of West Georgia is a public institution that was founded in 1906. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 10,249, its setting is rural, and the campus size is 645 acres. It utilizes a semester-based academic calendar. At this school, 29 percent of the students live in college-owned, -operated, or-affiliated housing and 71 percent of students live off campus. University of West Georgia is part of the NCAA II athletic conference.
Best Answer: It is a very good school -- better than most state universities -- even though it is only the second best public university in Georgia (GA Tech is better). 
UWG is the school students always complain about, but they wouldn't dare let you talk bad about it. Carrollton is pretty rural but close enough to ATL that you could work there if you want. I went to a different school my freshman year. At the other school I was just a check and a number. West Georgia actually cares about their students, the students experience and success. I love it here and I love being treated like a real person.
Best Answer: Of course, it will depend upon your qualifications and your desired course of study. However, in general, UWG is a well regarded school. Check out the Princeton Review comments, they give it a good rating. Good luck! 
Dean's Welcome. Welcome to the Tanner Health System School of Nursing!! On behalf of the faculty and staff of the Tanner Health System School of Nursing, I welcome you to the University of West Georgia! As you will discover, amazing things happen when you Go West! Read More...