1 (Of an argument or point) having a sound basis in logic or fact; reasonable or cogent: a valid criticism. More example sentences. Synonyms. 1  Damascus has a valid claim to be the world's oldest inhabited city. More example sentences. 1  The drivers would also be expected to have a valid driver's licence and a valid public driving permit. 2  He apparently had 600 hours of flight experience and a valid pilot's license.
val·id. adj. 1. Well grounded; just: a valid objection. 2. 
2. Having sufficient strength or force; founded in truth; capable of being justified, defended, or supported; not weak or defective; sound; good; efficacious; as, a valid argument; a valid objection. An answer that is open to no valid exception. - I. Taylor. Adj. 1. valid-well grounded in logic or truth or having legal force; a valid inference ; a valid argument ; a valid contract ; a valid license . Antonyms: invalid-having no cogency or legal force; invalid reasoning; an invalid driver's license.
Share this page on your website: The definition of reliability, as given in 'The Free Dictionary', is Yielding the same or compatible results in different clinical experiments or statistical trials . Don't miss these related articles: 1  1 Validity and Reliability.
3. (Law) Having legal strength or force; executed with the proper formalities; incapable of being rightfully overthrown or set aside; as, a valid deed; a valid covenant; a valid instrument of any kind; a valid claim or title; a valid marriage. Adj. Adj. 1. valid-well grounded in logic or truth or having legal force; a valid inference ; a valid argument ; a valid contract ; a valid license . Antonyms: invalid-having no cogency or legal force; invalid reasoning; an invalid driver's license.
validity. the extent to which a measuring device measures what it intends or purports to measure. construct validity the degree to which an instrument measures the characteristic being investigated; the extent to which the conceptual definitions match the operational definitions. content validity verification that the method of measurement actually measures what it is expected to measure; see also face validity. face validity a type of content validity, determining the suitability of a given instrument as a source of data on the subject under investigation, using common-sense criteria.
Definitions (2). 1. Law: Authorized by statute or otherwise having legal effect or force. 2.Reasoning: Statement unambiguously implied by the given assumptions (premises), or conforming to the principles of logic but not necessarily to reality or truth. They would only believe you if your story is valid. If any part of your statements are not true, then you will be disqualified. 4 people found this helpful. When I think about what people say, often times I think of whether what they say is valid or not.
external validity the extent to which study findings can be generalized beyond the sample used in the study. face validity a type of content validity, determining the suitability of a given instrument as a source of data on the subject under investigation, using common-sense criteria.
validity. The extent to which a measurement correctly measures what it is supposed to measure or to which extent the findings of an investigation reflect the truth. In health sciences, validity is commonly assessed by determining the sensitivity and specificity factors. See reliability; sensitivity; specificity. face validity a type of content validity, determining the suitability of a given instrument as a source of data on the subject under investigation, using common-sense criteria.