Aortic valve sclerosis — thickening and stiffness of the valve and mild aortic calcification — usually doesn't cause significant heart problems, but requires regular checkups to make sure your condition isn't worsening. If the valve becomes severely narrowed (stenotic), aortic valve replacement surgery may be necessary. This narrowing can become severe enough to reduce blood flow through the aortic valve, a condition called aortic valve stenosis. Aortic valve calcification may be an early sign that you have heart disease, even if you don't have any other heart disease symptoms.
Welcome to JustAnswer. Calcification of an artery is also known in lay terms as hardening of the arteries. With moderate calcification of the abdominal aorta, it means that the major artery that moves blood from the heart to your body is narrowed and not as pliable as it should be. It may also mean that you probably have the same condition wide-spread in the other arteries of your body (or, atherosclerosis)
Calcification occurs when the main artery of the body, known as the aorta, hardens as it passes through the abdomen. Before we discuss what the calcified abdominal aorta treatment is, we will explain why this condition occurs. We’ve all heard about cholesterol and the negative effects it can have on our body. Surgery is the last option for calcified abdominal aorta treatment and is generally used for more severe cases of calcification. The first surgical method involves inserting a catheter into the narrow part of the abdominal aorta, and then a balloon is inflated.
The aorta is the largest blood vessel in the body. It carries freshly oxygenated blood out of the heart so that it can be distributed to the circulatory system. In most people, the aorta follows a relatively straight path, but in people with tortuous aorta, the vessel may be twisted or distorted. 
Aortic valve calcification is a condition in which calcium deposits form on the aortic valve in the heart. These deposits can cause narrowing at the opening of the aortic valve. This narrowing can become severe enough to reduce blood flow through the aortic valve, a condition called aortic valve stenosis. Aortic valve calcification may be an early sign that you have heart disease, even if you don't have any other heart disease symptoms. Calcification and stenosis generally affect people older than age 65. When it occurs in younger people, it's often caused by: 1  A heart defect that's present at birth
This process is called atherosclerosis. When the lining of an artery is affected by atherosclerosis, calcium can deposit in the areas of atherosclerosis. Seeing calcification in the aorta most likely means there is some atherosclerosis in your largest artery. Such calcifications are often seen in people as they get older. The calcifications themselves are not a risk to you. However, finding evidence of atherosclerosis in your aorta probably means you have atherosclerosis in the arteries of your heart and brain. This increases your risk for heart attack and stroke
Report Abuse. A calcified aorta means that it is stiff due to calcium deposits in the artery wall. This condition is known as atherosclerosis which is a type of vascular disease. Aortic calcification is more common in older patients and those with cardiovascular disease and high cholesterol
Confidence votes 113. This means there is plaque in the aorta from atherosclerosis, or hardening of the arteries.. The usual causes are: smoking, diabetes, high cholesterol, diet high in saturated fats, family history of premature heart disease and age. If there is calcification in the aorta it probably means there is calcification, or at least plaque elsewhere in the body. The heart, the carotid arteries and the leg arteries. 
Good Morning, Aortic calcification may be an early sign that you have heart disease, even if you don't have any other heart disease symptoms. I would suggest you follow up with a cardiologist. Also do talk with your PCP about it now if you cannot get into a Cardiologist in the near future. 