Apply blue painter's tape to any areas you want protected from paint. Refinish the resin bathroom vanity sink basin by coating it with spray epoxy or appliance paint. Apply only a thin coat in short intermittent bursts rather than in one, steady stream. Allow the surface to dry for two hours and then apply another coat if necessary.
The spray paint, the legs and their hardware cost. Take a metal basin from an old broken washing machine – it may be rusty on the bottom, as you can see on this one. But the first step is to fix the top edge, which can be sharp and ragged.
Basin resurfacing (sometimes referred to as refinishing, re-glazing or re-enameling) is a process whereby basins and sinks can be repaired and given a new surface.
For decades, professionals have trusted Kelly-Moore Paints for a long-lasting coat of paint on every room in the house. Now that you know what to do when you paint your bathroom, you can let Kelly-Moore help you achieve the bathroom of your dreams. Find out more about Kelly-Moore's interior paints.
1 Cracks in a resin bathroom sink basin must be sealed with epoxy adhesive before you refinish with paint. 2  Never attempt to paint over cracks without filling them first or you will see a recurrence of the problem.
Painting a bird bath Go to a paint store and get a concrete sealer. This is a paint that will seal the concrete so you can paint without all you paint being absorbed into the concrete. Then paint it on and let it dry.
Make sure your bathroom is well ventilated and you follow the manufacturer's directions before using. You can also use Mr. Clean Magic Eraser to clean in the grooves of a textured shower pan. Use a fine steel wool to roughen up your surface if your paint directions call for you to do this.
Evenly spray the shower pan with a can of epoxy paint. You can also purchase paint specifically for fiberglass tubs and showers. Follow the manufacturer's directions for use, and protect yourself by wearing safety goggles, respiratory mask, rubber gloves and protective clothing.