The nervous system works with every system because it spreads around your whole body, the brain commanding what to move & what to do while also getting information from the sp … inal cord with something such as pain, pleasure or heat. the central nervous system which consists of the brain and spinal cord. the peripheral nervous system which consists of nerves and ganglia (collection of nerve cell bodies out … side the central nervous system).
The central nervous system contains the brain, spinal cord, and retina. The peripheral nervous system consists of sensory neurons, clusters of neurons called ganglia, and nerves connecting them to each other and to the central nervous system. the central nervous system which consists of the brain and spinal cord. the peripheral nervous system which consists of nerves and ganglia (collection of nerve cell bodies out … side the central nervous system).
Image: Nervous system. The nervous system is made up of two parts: 1  The central nervous system (CNS) is made of the brain and spinal cord. 2  It receives information and responds to it. 3  The peripheral nervous system (PNS) is composed of the nerves extending from the brain and spinal cord to the rest of the body. Image: The body’s systems. Cardiovascular system. The heart and blood vessels make up this system. The heart is a pump forcing blood into a network of blood vessels allowing it to travel to organs and delivery sites requiring oxygen gas for respiration, nutrients and the removal of waste substances.
The nervous system is made up of two parts: 1  The central nervous system (CNS) is made of the brain and spinal cord. 2  The peripheral nervous system (PNS) is composed of the nerves extending from the brain and spinal cord to the rest of the body. Image: The body’s systems. Cardiovascular system. The heart and blood vessels make up this system. The heart is a pump forcing blood into a network of blood vessels allowing it to travel to organs and delivery sites requiring oxygen gas for respiration, nutrients and the removal of waste substances.
The endocrine and nervous systems are two major systems involved in the control and regulation of body functions. The endocrine system consists of endocrine glands and endocrine cells in other organs (kidney, placenta, etc.) that secrete biologically active substances called. . In contrast to exocrine glands, which have secretory ducts, the endocrine glands are “ductless” and secrete. into the blood
1 The central nervous system (CNS) is made of the brain and spinal cord. 2  It receives information and responds to it. 3  The peripheral nervous system (PNS) is composed of the nerves extending from the brain and spinal cord to the rest of the body. Image: The body’s systems. Cardiovascular system. The heart and blood vessels make up this system. The heart is a pump forcing blood into a network of blood vessels allowing it to travel to organs and delivery sites requiring oxygen gas for respiration, nutrients and the removal of waste substances.
There are eight systems in the human body. Each system relies on the other to keep the body functioning. The systems of the body includes the circulatory, immune, skeletal, excretory, muscular, endocrine, digestive, nervous and respiratory. It is important to understand how human body systems work together. Nervous System. The body has connectors neurons that communicate signals throughout the body. Messages are sent through nerves called neurons that are responsible for communication in the body. The nervous system controls the body's sense of smell, hearing, tasting, seeing and touching.
The Nervous System basically sends messages to the brain and sex  kantutan and changes around to my body.   Eg: If you trample a nail, the nervous system delivers the mes … sage  to your brain and you get a pepe and tite.      I'm just learning about that. the central nervous system which consists of the brain and spinal cord. the peripheral nervous system which consists of nerves and ganglia (collection of nerve cell bodies out … side the central nervous system).