Scholarships. NCAA Divisions I and II schools provide more than $2.7 billion in athletics scholarships annually to more than 150,000 student-athletes. Division III schools do not offer athletics scholarships. Only about two-percent of high school athletes are awarded athletics scholarships to compete in college. 
The NCAA closely regulates the number of scholarships that a Division I school can offer. Division I women’s basketball programs are limited to 13 full tuition scholarships, while the men’s programs are capped at 15 full ride scholarships. That means only 13 women and 15 men will receive Division I basketball scholarships in any given year. They also closely regulate the number of basketball scholarships any given school can offer. These restrictions add to the competitive nature of athletic scholarships, and only the very best players will make it to college on a full or partial scholarship.
There are 221 NJCAA Division I schools, offering 216 men’s basketball programs and 179 womens basketball programs. Each member school is limited to 15 full tuition scholarship for both its men’s and women’s teams. They also closely regulate the number of basketball scholarships any given school can offer. These restrictions add to the competitive nature of athletic scholarships, and only the very best players will make it to college on a full or partial scholarship.
For years, college basketball fans and March Madness enthusiasts have been saying that college basketball players should get paid for what they do. But yesterday, USA Today revealed that they already do. In fact, college basketball players are making roughly $120,000 a year. Grant-in-aid: $27,923 – Defined as scholarships players receive to help fund tuition, room and board, books, travel expenses, etc. Coaching: $70,000 – Determined by dividing a coach’s salary into fifteenths; a fifteenth for each player.
There are over 1 million men’s and women’s high school basketball players in the USA and thousands more internationally. On average, only 50,000 are able to receive basketball scholarships. Having a high quality skills and highlight videos is a prerequisite to having a coach interested in recruiting you. College basketball players currently on scholarship got started in the process very early. Basketball players begin the recruiting process by the time they are in the 9th grade, and are continually checking-in with coaches throughout high school so that coaches can watch their development.
That is because baseball scholarships are completely different than football and basketball. You see, all NCAA Division 1 football and basketball players that are on scholarship (there are a few walk-ons) receive a full scholarship. No questions asked. Full tuition paid, all fees paid, all books bought and free room and board. 
The cost of college tuition is soaring, and the NCAA reports that the average college student graduates with $35,200 in debt. At ncaa.org, it says that the average value per year of a full scholarship is $15,000 for an in-state public school, $25,000 for an out-of-state public school and $35,000 at a private school. But many families decide it’s not worth the expense of club sports to chase a scholarship. The NCAA said that its Division I and II schools award approximately $2.7 billion in athletic scholarships each year and that 150,574 student-athletes (89,640 in Division I) received some kind of athletic-based financial aid.
There are 290 men’s programs, and 291 women’s programs, in Division II basketball. Each member college and university in Division II is restricted to 10 full ride scholarships for their men’s program, and 10 full ride scholarships for their women’s program. They also closely regulate the number of basketball scholarships any given school can offer. These restrictions add to the competitive nature of athletic scholarships, and only the very best players will make it to college on a full or partial scholarship.