There are also eligibility requirements for opening a Coverdell ESA. If you file your taxes alone, your income must be under $95,000 in order to open an account. If you file as married, you and your spouse must earn less than $190,000. Grandparents can also open Coverdell ESAs.
3. The Coverdell education savings account (ESA) offers tax advantages similar those of the 529 plan, but has a $2,000 annual cap on contributions. Still, if you're contributing only $2,000 or less per year, these savings vehicles can be attractive, particularly because they offer a broad range of investment options.
The maximum annual contribution is $2,000 per child. The earnings are tax free as long as the proceeds are used to pay qualified educational expenses. Eligibility • The Coverdell Education Savings Account can be set up for an individual under the age of 18.
But in 2001, federal lawmakers renamed the educational IRA to the Coverdell Education Savings Account, and they raised the annual contribution ceiling to $2,000. Grandparents can make contributions to these educational accounts up the child's 18th birthday.
The Education IRA. Because the Coverdell ESA has certain similarities to an individual retirement account, or an IRA, it is sometimes referred to as the Education IRA. Each year, you can contribute up to $2,000 to your child's account.
Contribution limits and restrictions. The annual contribution limit for Coverdell ESAs is $2,000 per beneficiary. That's considerably less than you can contribute to most 529 plans (most plans have lifetime contribution limits of at least $300,000 total). So the more money you have to invest, the more attractive a 529 plan becomes.
It allows you to save money towards your child's college expenses with tax advantages. A Coverdell also offers one other benefit over other college savings vehicles: unlike the Section 529 plans, money in a Coverdell ESA can be used for educational expenses before your child is in college.
Grandparents can either contribute to an existing educational IRA or open a new one for the grandchild as long as the account is in the grandchild's name. The total annual contributions for any one grandchild, however, cannot exceed $2,000.
Coverdell ESAs are another option you have to help fund your grandchildren s college expenses. Like 529 plans, ESAs represent a tax-deferred and potentially tax-free way to save for college expenses. And unlike 529 plans, ESA withdrawals are tax-free when used for qualifying K-12 expenses in addition to college.