Many of the old American Indian parfleche bags or parfleche cases and other painted American Indian rawhide pieces in museum and private collections were painted with cookies. We have made every effort to revive the cookies as they were found on the Plains and the Plateau before 1900.
A parfleche is a Native American rawhide bag, typically used for holding dried meats and pemmican.The original bags had graphics that were actually maps, general geographical depictions of the surrounding land.
If Luggage says something about a traveler, the parfleche used to say something nomadic Native American tribes, and much more. Parfleches are containers of folded or laced rawhide, painted in detailed mostly geometric designs.
Make Your Own Parfleche Native Americans from the Columbia Plateau and the Plains stored, transported and shared foods and materials in parfleches. (“Parfleche” is French, from “parer,” meaning “to deflect,” and “fleche,” meaning “arrow.”) They could be easily carried on horseback.
Parfleche. Hunkpapa Lakota. The preparation of the hide was intensive and an art within itself. The hide was soaked in water and wood ashes for a few days. Then the hide would be staked down to dry. The final preparation would have the hide then scraped with sharp rock or tool. Moreus, Carl.
On some American Indian parfleches or parfleche bags, it is obvious that a free hand was used to paint them. On others, notably the transmontane style (Nez Perce, Wallawalla, Yakama, Shoshone, Crow and other Plains and Plateau tribes) at times used a straight edge when applying outlines on their parfleche pieces.
1 When research is complete, invite students to make a portfolio for their art or writings. 2  In keeping with the Native American culture, students can design a parfleche that looks similar to the bark or leather used by Native Americans.
Parfleche painting cookies are now available for purchase! Here is a photo of the parfleche painting cookies illustrating the nice array of 20 different shades and colors. We have used the very best pigments that are perfect matches to what was available from 1840 through 1910 or so.