Abnormal psychology is the branch of psychology that studies unusual patterns of behavior, emotion and thought, which may or may not be understood as precipitating a mental disorder. 1 Psychometric abnormality – when a certain behavior/characteristic differs from the population's normal dispersion e.g. having an IQ of 35 could be classified as abnormal, as the population average is 100.
There are five main criteria of abnormality. They are 1. statistical criterion 2. social criterion 3. personal discomfort 4. maladaptive behaviour 5. deviation from ideal. 1  One criterion for abnormality that may appear to apply in the case of abnormal behavior is statistical infrequency. 1 The standard criteria in psychology and psychiatry is that of mental illness or mental disorder. 2  Determination of abnormality is based upon medical diagnosis. 3  This is often criticized for removing control from the 'patient', and being easily manipulated by political or social goals.
1 Historically this definition has been wrongly applied to groups of individuals who are not abnormal but fail to meet the social norms of the society. 2  Social norms differ across cultures, therefore what is seen as abnormal in one culture would be normal in another culture due to their definition of the ‘norm’. 3. Deviation from Ideal Mental Health. Abnormality can be defined as a deviation from ideal mental health. This means that psychologists consider the characteristics of mental health, rather than mental illness. According to this definition, people should ‘meet’ certain criteria to be considered normal'.
1. the state of being unlike the usual condition. 2. a malformation. inherited abnormality. a defect of anatomy or function acquired by the patient from its parents by way of inherited material passed through the germ cells from which the patient originated. See also inheritance. 1. the state of being unlike the usual condition. 2. a malformation. left atrial abnormality an atrial conduction abnormality accompanied by an enlarged left atrium; on the electrocardiogram it is seen as notched upright P waves in leads I, II, and V4 to V6, and a deep broad terminal trough in V1. See also p-mitrale.
Abnormality (or dysfunctional behavior), in the vivid sense of something deviating from the normal or differing from the typical (such as an aberration), is a subjectively defined behavioral characteristic, assigned to those with rare or dysfunctional conditions. 1 The standard criteria in psychology and psychiatry is that of mental illness or mental disorder. 2  Determination of abnormality is based upon medical diagnosis. 3  This is often criticized for removing control from the 'patient', and being easily manipulated by political or social goals.
Abnormality. Abnormality, in the vivid sense of something deviating from the normal or differing from the typical, is a subjectively defined behavioral characteristic, assigned to those with rare or dysfunctional conditions. Defining who is normal or abnormal is a contentious issue in abnormal psychology. 
Violation of Social Norms. Under this definition, a person's thinking or behavior is classified as abnormal if it violates the (unwritten) rules about what is expected or acceptable behavior in a particular social group. Their behavior may be incomprehensible to others or make others feel threatened or uncomfortable. by Saul McLeod published 2008, updated 2014. Abnormal psychology is a division of psychology that studies people who are  abnormal  or  atypical  compared to the members of a given society. There is evidence that some psychological disorders are more common than was previously thought
1. Deviation from social norms. Abnormality can be defined as a deviation from social norms This means that we label people as abnormal if their behaviour is different from what we accept as the norms of society.Some social norms are explicit, which means they are legal written laws. 3. Deviation from Ideal Mental Health. Abnormality can be defined as a deviation from ideal mental health. This means that psychologists consider the characteristics of mental health, rather than mental illness. According to this definition, people should ‘meet’ certain criteria to be considered normal'.
1 Social norms differ across cultures, therefore what is seen as abnormal in one culture would be normal in another culture due to their definition of the ‘norm’. 2  This is a problem because it means that the definition cannot be generalised to all cultures as it would lead to people being inaccurately labelled as abnormal. 3. Deviation from Ideal Mental Health. Abnormality can be defined as a deviation from ideal mental health. This means that psychologists consider the characteristics of mental health, rather than mental illness. According to this definition, people should ‘meet’ certain criteria to be considered normal'.