Jim Crow laws did not exclusively apply to the segregation of whites and blacks; in Texas, for instance, Mexican-Americans, along with blacks, were prohibited from sharing schools, restaurants, churches, and other public spaces with whites. The formal segregation of blacks and whites in the United States began with the passage of Jim Crow laws following the end of the Reconstruction Era in 1877.
In the case of Plessy v. Ferguson, the Supreme Court ruled that a Louisiana law providing for “equal but separate” accommodations for “whites” and “coloreds” did not violate the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Plessy v. Ferguson was based upon a belief in white supremacy. Amendment. 
Congress passed the Civil Rights Act of 1964 after President Lyndon Johnson brokered an end to a Senate filibuster opposing the legislation. The new federal law was intended t … o end most forms of racial segregation and discrimination, in general. For a short time in the late 19th century, blacks did play in the majors, but this did not last long. The most prominent step in desegregating baseball was the signing of Jackie Robinson in 1947.
THE AFRICAN AMERICAN STRUGGLE for desegregation, observes Gary Orfield, co-director at the Harvard Civil Rights Project and among the nation's leading experts on desegregation, did not arise because anyone believed that there was something magical about sitting next to whites in a classroom. Following Brown and Brown II (which called for desegregation with all deliberate speed in 1955), education became the focus of what was called the South's massive resistance to the Court's rulings.
When did school desegregate? In the United States, the issue of segregation in schools was heard  by the Supreme Court, and ruled unconstitutional in a decision  handed down on May 17, 1954 in the famou … s Brown v.  Board of Education case. For a short time in the late 19th century, blacks did play in the majors, but this did not last long. The most prominent step in desegregating baseball was the signing of Jackie Robinson in 1947.
As we approach the 50 th anniversary of the landmark Supreme Court ruling, Brown v. Board of Education, many in the United States are contemplating the value of public policies that flowed from that decision, especially the desegregation of public schools. 
Desegregation busing in the United States (also known as forced busing or simply busing) is the practice of assigning and transporting students to schools in such a manner as to redress prior racial segregation of schools, or to overcome the effects of residential segregation on local school demographics. In 1970 a federal court ordered the desegregation of the public schools in Pasadena, California. At that time, the proportion of white students in those schools reflected the proportion of whites in the community, 54 percent and 53 percent, respectively.
In particular, there was no rule or law that stated blacks could not play in the major leagues. It was just a gentlemens' agreement-- an unwritten, unenforced rule that no one … dared to challenge. For a short time in the late 19th century, blacks did play in the majors, but this did not last long. The most prominent step in desegregating baseball was the signing of Jackie Robinson in 1947. 1947 was considered the breakthrough year for baseball
How did segregation affect America? - Racial segregation was a system derived from the efforts of white Americans to keep African Americans in a subordinate status by denying them equal access to public facilities and ensuring that blacks lived apart from whites. - By the time the Supreme Court ruled in Dred Scott v. Sanford (1857) that African Americans were not U.S. citizens, northern whites had excluded blacks from seats on public transportation and barred their entry, except as servants, from most hotels and restaurants.