The global fintech sector continues to accelerate in investment and exit activity, with the UK positioning itself as a key hub for fintech. Silicon Valley Bank's 2015 fintech report, Investment Trends in Fintech, addresses the breadth and depth of investments in the fintech sector. The report highlights the global and UK specific investment trends in fintech over the past five years and demonstrates the increasing evidence of London developing as a global hub, with fintech now being worth £20bn in revenue to the UK economy.
The Fintech revolution is now becoming reality. The global fintech sector continues to accelerate in investment and exit activity, with the UK positioning itself as a key hub for fintech. We have seen global fintech investment increasing, and the fourth quarter of 2014 was the busiest time in fintech history, with 214 deals taking place globally. UK Fintech Investment Trends. UK & Fintech in 2015 Fintech is currently worth £20 billion in revenue of the UK economy, with 18% coming from emerging businesses, and thanks to the historic dominance of the City of London, the UK has four fintech incubators.
My perception is that a huge volume of investment activity in fintech the last 2 years has been in a small fraction of the overall fintech market (payments, P2P lending) and the more interesting opportunities may lie elsewhere. To help structure my thinking pulled together the chart below. 
Some of the areas seeing the biggest boom in fintech investment include mobile, data and analytics, cloud and cyber security, the report found. The U.S. is by far the biggest market for fintech venture capital investment, making up 83% of the global market, according to the report. The first quarter of 2014 saw a record investment in fintech ventures of $1.7 billion, with 167 deals closed. [For More On What’s Happening In the FinTech Startup Space, Check Out: 5 FinTech Startups To Watch].
The Boom in Global Fintech Investment A new growth opportunity for London. Executive summary Global investment in financial technology (‘fintech’) ventures has more than tripled during the last five years – from under $930 million in 2008 to more than $2.97 billion in 2013 (see Figure 1). It will be interesting to see what fintech looks like if investment rises to the same level that healthcare was at its peak. I certainly think it is possible.” We were mentored by four banks, and produced two years’ worth of product innovation in ten weeks.
DEFINITION of 'Fintech'. Fintech is a portmanteau of financial technology that describes an emerging financial services sector in the 21st century. Originally, the term applied to technology applied to the back-end of established consumer and trade financial institutions. BREAKING DOWN 'Fintech'. The term financial technology can apply to any innovation in how people transact business, from the invention of money to double-entry bookkeeping.
Financial technology, also known as FinTech, is a line of business based on using software to provide financial services. Financial technology companies are generally startups founded with the purpose of disrupting incumbent financial systems and corporations that rely less on software. Global investment in financial technology more than tripled to $4 billion in 2013 from $930 million in 2008.
Jens Muench münch discusses how despite seeing global investment in fintech rise to$ 12 billion in, 2015 most people are still unsure about what it actually. ‘Is’ fintech is a phrase increasingly banded about in the media and in technology. circles ‘Fintech’ is a phrase increasingly banded about in the media and in technology circles. Yet despite being in vogue, it’s a term many – including tech savvy and clued up entrepreneurs – don’t quite have a handle on. Indeed, it’s a fresh enough term to not yet feature in the online version of the Oxford dictionary.
Fintech. Next video: Loading the player... Financial technology, or fintech ​, is a financial services sector that emerged in the 21 st century. Essentially, fintech is any technological innovation in the financial sector. This can include advances in financial education, retail banking, investment and crypto-currencies. 