A diverging is the type of plate boundary that the Hekla volcano  formed. Hekla last erupted in 2000. It is located in Iceland. South America seems to be the one with the most volcanoes, however Asia is the one with the most ACTIVE volcanoes. Not sure about continient, but the islands of Hawaii are a … ll volcanoes. 4 people found this useful.
[ˈhɛʰkla]. ), or Hecla, is a stratovolcano in the south of Iceland with a height of 1,491 metres (4,892 ft). Hekla is one of Iceland's most active volcanoes; over 20 eruptions have occurred in and around the volcano since 874. During the Middle Ages, Europeans called the volcano the Gateway to Hell . Hekla is part of a volcanic ridge, 40 kilometres (25 mi) long. The most active part of this ridge, a fissure about 5.5 km (3.4 mi) long named Heklugja, heklugjá is considered to be the Volcano hekla. proper
Australia is the only continent without any active volcanoes. However, there is one active volcano on Australian territory, that being Big Ben on McDonald Island in the sub-An … tarctic territory of Heard & McDonald Island. South America seems to be the one with the most volcanoes, however Asia is the one with the most ACTIVE volcanoes. Not sure about continient, but the islands of Hawaii are a … ll volcanoes. 4 people found this useful.
Hekla is Iceland’s most famous volcano. An active volcano for centuries, the mountain Hekla is one of the most famous in the world. Hekla is a stratovolcano, located near the southern end of the eastern rift zone in Iceland. The whole mountain ridge of Hekla is about 40 km long. The fissure, Heklugja, heklugjá which splits the, ridge is about.5 5 km. Long the mountain is about, 1 491 m. high
Geography. Iceland is an island in the Atlantic Ocean, located near the Arctic Circle, between Greenland and Norway. An island of 103.000 km 2 (40,000 square miles), it is about the same size as Hungary and Portugal, or Kentucky and Virginia. 
Confidence votes 77. Politically Iceland belongs to the continent of Europe. However geologically Iceland is a subaerial part of Mid-Atlantic spreading ridge, the ridge along which the oceanic crust spreads and forms new oceanic crust. In addition to this, this part of the MOR (mid ocean ridge) is located atop a mantle plume causing Iceland to be subaerial (above sea level). 
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Hekla Vlocanoe is Found In The Continent Of Europe Which Is Where Iceland,England,Wales,Ireland,Scotland,Republic Of Ireland,Spain,Italy And Italy Are also found. South America seems to be the one with the most volcanoes, however Asia is the one with the most ACTIVE volcanoes. Not sure about continient, but the islands of Hawaii are a … ll volcanoes. 4 people found this useful.
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Hekla Vlocanoe is Found In The Continent Of Europe Which Is Where Iceland,England,Wales,Ireland,Scotland,Republic Of Ireland,Spain,Italy And Italy Are also found. Hekla Mountain Is Found In Iceland. South America seems to be the one with the most volcanoes, however Asia is the one with the most ACTIVE volcanoes. Not sure about continient, but the islands of Hawaii are a … ll volcanoes. 4 people found this useful.
Iceland. Print this map. Print this map. Located in the North Atlantic Ocean, directly east of Greenland, Iceland is Europe's western most country, the second largest island in the North-Atlantic Ocean, and a little over 3 hours flight from London, Paris or Copenhagen.