Ia€™iâ m buying A hud home with cash as an-owner, occupied after it has been sitting on a market for around 2 months at the time of. Bidding it is scheduled to close soon in a few weeks. Here Now i want to live somewhere, else but€™dona donâ t want to cancel our deal WITH the (hud home afraid of losing). our deposit Dexter, Home Buyer, 98367. Sarah & Gerard. Thanks for your advice and I did call HUD, she (HUD) said I have to resubmit the bid as an investor and the earnest money is up to the person that managing the account. Once she asked me for my name and the property location-I just said thank you to her and then hung-up.
A. A HUD Home is a property that was previously financed with an FHA insured mortgage and where the owner has defaulted on the loan. The lender, then, forecloses on the home. FHA pays the lender what is owed; and the lender transfers ownership of the home to FHA/HUD. Then, HUD sells it at market value. 
Question 3: Will HUD buy my house? Can I sell my home to HUD? Answer: No. HUD does not buy homes. The homes that HUD sells come into HUD's possession as a result of defaults on FHA (HUD) insured mortgages. Read our section on selling your home. It offers basic information that is good to know when selling your home.
Considerations. HUD often considers it criminal fraud when HUD home owner-occupants try to sell their homes within the 12-month mandatory occupancy period. Those buying HUD homes as owner-occupants can't have purchased another HUD home as an owner-occupant in the previous 24 months. Investors can bid on HUD homes once the exclusive listing period for owner-occupant bidders expires. HUD homes, as foreclosed Federal Housing Administration (FHA)- backed homes are called, can be bought at online auction by hopeful home buyers. HUD, of course, has rules for those intending to buy and then occupy a HUD home, including length-of-occupancy requirements. Generally, owner-occupants of HUD homes must live in those homes for at least 12 months before selling them
The following information is provided as an introduction to the process through which HUD homes can be purchased and resold. You can either scroll down the page, or access specific topics through the following topic menu. Before HUD properties are publically listed for sale, they are first evaluated to ascertain if they qualify for direct, exclusive sale to units of local government and FHA-approved nonprofit organizations. Generally, these properties are located in designated Revitalization Areas.
HUD Home Store is the listing site for HUD real estate owned (REO) single-family properties. This site provides the public, brokers, potential owner-occupants, state and local governments and nonprofit organizations a centralized location to search the inventory of HUD properties for sale. In addition, registered real estate brokers and other organizations can place bids on behalf of their clients to purchase a HUD property. HUD Home Store also includes many informative user-friendly features providing advice and guidance for consumers on the home buying process.
HUD properties that are not sold under any special programs are listed on HUD Home Store and offered on an exclusive, priority basis to owner occupant purchasers (people who are buying the home as their primary residence). Before HUD properties are publically listed for sale, they are first evaluated to ascertain if they qualify for direct, exclusive sale to units of local government and FHA-approved nonprofit organizations. Generally, these properties are located in designated Revitalization Areas.
Anyone who has the required cash or can qualify for a loan (subject to certain restrictions) may buy a HUD Home. HUD Homes are initially offered to owner-occupant purchasers (people who are buying the home as their primary residence). In addition, registered real estate brokers and other organizations can place bids on behalf of their clients to purchase a HUD property. HUD Home Store also includes many informative user-friendly features providing advice and guidance for consumers on the home buying process.
5) How do I get financing on my home purchase. Although HUD is not a lending institution, purchasers of HUD homes may qualify for FHA-insured mortgages. However, the buyer of a HUD home foreclosure is not required to use an FHA-insured mortgage to purchase the home. HUD lists their homes on the Internet as well at www.hud.gov, and HUD home foreclosures can also be found at RealtyTrac. HUD home foreclosures on the Internet are maintained by various management companies all under contract with HUD.