The carbohydrates produced by plants are an important source of energy for animals. When animals eat plants, energy stored in carbohydrates is released in the process of respiration, a chemical reaction between glucose and oxygen to produce energy (for cell work), carbon dioxide, and water. Glucose is also used by animal cells in the production of other substances needed for growth. Plants use this light energy to convert water and carbon dioxide from the environment into glucose and oxygen. Some glucose is used to form the more complex carbohydrate cellulose, the main structural component of plant cell walls. Some is used to provide immediate energy to plant cells.
polysaccharide that stores glucose for energy in animal cells in granules, especially those in the liver and muscle. This polysaccharide is the animal equivalent of plant starch, but its molecules are more branched than starch. Like starch, this polysaccharide is made of glucose, but the chains are made from a different glucose isomer, so they have different properties, made with glucose that has the beta ring form so indigestible to humans.
Glucose. Glucose is a carbohydrate, and is the most important simple sugar in human metabolism. Glucose is called a simple sugar or a monosaccharide because it is one of the smallest units which has the characteristics of this class of carbohydrates. Glucose is also sometimes called dextrose. Corn syrup is primarily glucose. Fructose is called a simple sugar or a monosaccharide because it is one of the smallest units which has the characteristics of this class of carbohydrates. Fructose is also found in honey. It is classified as the sweetest of all the sugars.
Cells have multiple sources of nutrients including fats and sugars,  that can be used to create energy. As far as sugar is concerned,  glucose is the sugar that is used by c … ells to produce energy. 
Fructose is a carbohydrate, and is a simple sugar found in fruits. It is often called just fruit sugar. Fructose is called a simple sugar or a monosaccharide because it is one of the smallest units which has the characteristics of this class of carbohydrates. Fructose is also found in honey. It is classified as the sweetest of all the sugars.
Glucose (Picture 1) is the most important monosaccharide found in human body and is the prime energy source for humans and animals. It is also known as grape sugar, corn sugar, starch sugar and blood sugar. It is a six-carbon sugar (hexose). The empirical formula of glucose is C6H12O6. Natural Sources of Glucose. Glucose, that can be used by human, is generally found in fruits, vegetables, honey, and starch. Table sugar or sucrose is made of glucose and fructose molecules. Glucose is also a component of other major disaccharides such as lactose and maltose.
Their function in living organisms is usually either structure-or storage-related. Starch (a polymer of glucose) is used as a storage polysaccharide in plants, being found in the form of both amylose and the branched amylopectin. In animals, the structurally similar glucose polymer is the more densely branched glycogen, sometimes called 'animal starch'. 
1 Glucose.  2 Blood sugar is the immediate source of energy for cellular respiration. 3  Glucose, which is also referred to as dextrose, is a moderately sweet sugar found in vegetables and fruit. 4  When glucose is fermented by the enzyme zymase, in yeast, it results in the formation of carbon dioxide and ethyl alcohol. 1 Blood sugar is the immediate source of energy for cellular respiration. 2  Glucose, which is also referred to as dextrose, is a moderately sweet sugar found in vegetables and fruit. 3  When glucose is fermented by the enzyme zymase, in yeast, it results in the formation of carbon dioxide and ethyl alcohol.