Web analytics provides information about the number of visitors to a website and the number of page views. It helps gauge traffic and popularity trends which is useful for market research. 
For example, an advertising site having an average CPM of $25.00 and an average 3 page views per visit would make the following calculation: $25 / 1,000 page views * 3.00 page views / visit = $0.075 per visit. Expectation. Expectations about average page views per visit depend on your business model. Definition. The total number of page views divided by the total number of visits during the same timeframe. Page Views / Visits = Average Page Views per Visit. Sophisticated users may also want to calculate average page views per visit for different visitor segments. Presentation. Presentation of average page views per visit can be supplemented by associating the monetary value of a page view for the advertising
It really depends on a number of different factors. What is your website about? Do you want to make money from it? I started a blog 2 months ago which has a niche subject matter and I currently average 700 - 1000 pageviews a day. 
For example, if you have a page with 10 pictures, then a request to a server to view that page generates 11 hits (10 for the pictures, and one for the html file). A page view can contain hundreds of hits. This is the reason that we measure page views and not hits. Each file sent to a browser by a web server is an individual hit. A pageview is each time a visitor views a page on your website, regardless of how many hits are generated. Pages are comprised of files. Every image in a page is a separate file.
As a rule of thumb, a bounce rate in the range of 26 to 40 percent is excellent. 41 to 55 percent is roughly average. 56 to 70 percent is higher than average, but may not be cause for alarm depending on the website. Anything over 70 percent is disappointing for everything outside of blogs, news, events, etc. The chart above plots out the number of websites that fell within a particular range from the sample set. The bounce rate for the average website is more likely to dance to the tune of 40 to 55 percent. Once it tips over 50 percent, it’s probably time to identify which user segments or content are driving the bounce rate up. Even a bounce rate over 60% might not be bad
A visit happens when someone or something (robot) visits your site. It consists of one or more page views/ hits. One visitor can make multiple visits to your site. Technically, a visitor is the browser of a person who accepts a cookie. Opentracker utilizes 1st party cookie technology. Each file sent to a browser by a web server is an individual hit. A pageview is each time a visitor views a page on your website, regardless of how many hits are generated. Pages are comprised of files. Every image in a page is a separate file.
A page view (PV) or page impression is a request to load a single HTML file (web page) of an Internet site. On the World Wide Web, a page request would result from a web surfer clicking on a link on another page pointing to the page in question. There may therefore be many hits per page view since an HTML page can be made up of multiple files. On balance, page views refer to a number of pages which are viewed or clicked on the site during the given time. Page views may be counted as part of web analytics. For the owner of the site, this information can be useful to see if any change in the page (such as the information or the way it is presented) results in more visits