Q. How old are the eaglets when they fledge? A. Nest departure as early as 8 weeks of age has been reported, but 11 to 13 weeks appear to be the most common ages. The Hornby eaglets have usually fledged at 12 weeks of age. In 2009, the chick fledged at 85 days of age (the exact age reported in Doug Carrick's book). 
After about 6 weeks of being with their Parents the Baby Eagles are pushed out of their nest to go on their own.   Actually, baby eagles, or eaglets, stay in the nest until … at least 11-12 weeks of age. The parents feed the babies until they leave the nest permanently. Even if the eaglets can fly well, they quite often keep coming back to the nest or stay in the area while the parents continue to feed them. 
Bald eagles build their nests in large trees near rivers or coasts. A typical nest is around 5 feet in diameter. Eagles often use the same nest year after year. Over the years, some nests become enormous, as much as 9 feet in diameter, weighing two tons. If the nest tree falls or a strong wind blows a nest down, the established pair usually rebuilds at or near the site within a few weeks if it is near the breeding season. As a result, the height of the nest in the tree matches that of the deck, with 40 - 50 yards between. I asked permission from the homeowners to photograph the eagles. Having nested there for 10+ years, the eagles are very used to people on the deck; they go about their nesting duties and do not pay any attention.
Eggs are laid a few days apart and consequently hatch in the order they were laid. Female eaglets tend to be larger than their male counterparts. Like most birds of prey, the female adult is also larger than the male. Adult eagles range from 33-35 inches long for males and 35-37 inches for females. See photos 3-5. Before baby eaglets hatch, there is always one parent in the nest to incubate the eggs and protect them from predators. The parents share incubation obligations for about 35 days.
Q. About how long does it take for the bald eagle's eggs to hatch and how long until it can fly? A. It takes 35 days to hatch, then young in nest 10-12 weeks more unti lthey fledge (fly from nest). Q. How old are they before young eagles can fly? A. At 10-12 weeks, when they leave their nest. Q. When do eagles learn to fly and how? A. At between 10-12 weeks as they first leave the nest (fledge), and then with more and more practice to and from the nest and surrounding trees over the next month or two.
Confidence votes 142. After about 6 weeks of being with their Parents the Baby Eagles are pushed out of their nest to go on their own. Actually, baby eagles, or eaglets, stay in the nest until at least 11-12 weeks of age. The parents feed the babies until they leave the nest permanently. Even if the eaglets can fly well, they quite often keep coming back to the nest or stay in the area while the parents continue to feed them. 
Golden eagles actually seem to prefer cliff nests. After mother eagles lay their eggs, they may sit on the nest for a long time before the eggs begin to hatch. the Golden eagle shown here may have to stay on the nest as long as 50 days. The job is sometimes shared by the father eagle. From the time they hatch, it takes eagles 65 to 75 days to get ready to fly. During this time, their white downy coats are replaced by darker feathers. When there are young eagles in the nest, both of the parents have to do a lot of hunting.
Why do Bald Eagles have such big, strong nests when they have only two small eggs? Bald Eagles are about 3 feet (90 centimeters) from their head to their tail and before the nestlings leave the nest, they become as large as their parents and need a lot of room for their 6 foot (1.8 metre) wingspan.