Connect everyone to everything. PingFederate ® is a full-featured federation server that provides identity management, web single sign-on and API security for customers, partners, and employees. Users can securely access the applications they require with a single identity using any device. 
When you are using the ACS Management Portal to configure a WS-Federation identity provider, you must enter the following data. 1  Display name —Specifies the display name of your identity provider. 2  This name is used in the ACS Management Portal only. It is important to monitor the certificates and ensure that they are effective and that they are replaced before they expire. To view the certificates for a WS-Federation identity provider: 1  In the ACS Management Portal, click Identity providers. 2  Click the WS-Federation identity provider.
Oracle Identity Federation. Oracle Identity Federation (OIF) is a complete, enterprise-level solution for secure identity information exchange between partners. OIF reduces account management for partner identities and lowers the cost of integrations through support of industry federation standards. 
In the WIF/Microsoft world Identity Provider (IP or IdP) is the term for a server that authenticates a user (the server is connected to some account database, AD in the current case of ADFS). Federation server/provider is often used for a server that receives a SAML Token from another server. 
WS-Federation identity providers are custom identity providers that support the WS-Federation protocol and are configured in Microsoft Azure Active Directory Access Control (also known as Access Control Service or ACS) using WS-Federation metadata. It is important to monitor the certificates and ensure that they are effective and that they are replaced before they expire. To view the certificates for a WS-Federation identity provider: 1  In the ACS Management Portal, click Identity providers. 2  Click the WS-Federation identity provider.
Federated identity providers offer services that enable users in a corporate enterprise environment to use a single digital identity to access applications and services that they have access rights to, regardless of which security domain the application or service resides in. The strengths of a federated identity approach are that it readily enables organizations to: 1  Integrate cloud security with their existing enterprise security. 2  Enable employees to use one set of credentials to access services in the Private and Public cloud.
For WS-Federation identity providers, the available claim types are determined by the WS-Federation metadata for the identity provider that is imported into ACS. Once the import is complete, the claim types available for the identity provider are visible in the Edit Claim Rule page of the ACS Management Portal. It is important to monitor the certificates and ensure that they are effective and that they are replaced before they expire. To view the certificates for a WS-Federation identity provider: 1  In the ACS Management Portal, click Identity providers. 2  Click the WS-Federation identity provider.
Right-click on Service from the left tree-view and click on Edit Federation Service Properties. In the General Tab you can find the Federation Service Identifier, which is the Identity provider URL. You’ll need to fill this up in the TalentLMS Single-Sign-On (SSO) configuration page. For the current procedure the Identity provider URL is http://win-0sgkfmnb1t8.adatum.com/adfs/services/trust. 
WS-Federation identity providers are most frequently used in web site and web application scenarios, where the WS-Federation passive requester profile is used to facilitate the necessary token redirects to and from ACS using a web browser. It is important to monitor the certificates and ensure that they are effective and that they are replaced before they expire. To view the certificates for a WS-Federation identity provider: 1  In the ACS Management Portal, click Identity providers. 2  Click the WS-Federation identity provider.