Average Boston MA Funeral Costs. . advertisement. According to last year’s funeral price survey, the average Boston MA funeral costs for an adult funeral is $7,775. This is based on the most commonly selected items for a traditional funeral including a casket and vault. However, it does not include cemetery costs in Boston MA. A grave space, a grave marker, and opening/closing the grave can easily cost another $1,500 to $2,500 in Boston MA. Therefore, a typical traditional funeral and burial cost is likely at least $9,000.
Funeral Cost. Funeral homes, cemeteries and other service providers in Boston MA expect to receive payment in full at the time of the funeral. With the average cost of a funeral around $8,000 in the United States for example, it can be a hardship if you have not planned ahead for this expenditure. A grave space, a grave marker, and opening/closing the grave can easily cost another $1,500 to $2,500 in Boston MA. Therefore, a typical traditional funeral and burial cost is likely at least $9,000.
Planning Ahead is the Key to Managing Funeral Costs. Funeral homes, cemeteries and other service providers expect to receive payment in full at the time of the funeral. With the average cost of a funeral in the U.S. exceeding $8,000, it can be a hardship if you have not planned ahead for this expenditure. Therefore, a typical traditional funeral and burial cost is likely at least $9,000. Depending upon the quality of the casket, burial vault and other merchandise selected, a traditional funeral and burial cost could be less than $5,000 or exceed $10,000.
The National Funeral Directors Association puts the average cost of a funeral at more than $7,000. This figure doesn’t cover many common expenses such as cemetery costs, markers, flowers, or obituaries. For many people, after a house and a car, funeral goods and services are the most expensive thing they’ll ever buy. In Massachusetts, you may name the person who will carry out your funeral arrangements. You can also provide detailed instructions about your final wishes and set aside funds to cover your funeral expenses, including the costs of burial or cremation.
Average cremation costs in New England The cremation rate in the United States continues to climb. It has now reached a national average of nearly 42%, although the New England states tend to have a higher than average cremation rate. Connecticut is the only New England state where residents must employ a funeral director by law. Maine, New Hampshire and Vermont have all witnessed a significant rise in the cremation rate over the last decade, whilst Connecticut, Massachusetts and Rhode Islands cremation rate is around the national average.
The average cost of a direct cremation nationally is $1,110 (according to the National Cremation Research Council 2011), although there are now many areas in the U.S. where a direct cremation can cost less than $800. Connecticut is the only New England state where residents must employ a funeral director by law. Maine, New Hampshire and Vermont have all witnessed a significant rise in the cremation rate over the last decade, whilst Connecticut, Massachusetts and Rhode Islands cremation rate is around the national average.
For this reason an ‘average’ cremation cost is has to be put into the perspective depending on what kind of cremation services are being assessed. Nationally the average cost of a cremation funeral is $3,745 for a cremation with a ceremony and a mid-range urn. Average cremation costs in Boston are on par with this price. However, cheaper cremation options are available as mentioned below. 
Average Funeral Costs. According to the 2010 funeral price survey by the National Funeral Directors Association, the average funeral cost for an adult funeral is $7,775.00. This is based on the most commonly selected items for a traditional funeral including a casket and vault. However, it does not include cemetery costs. Therefore, a typical traditional funeral and burial cost is likely at least $9,000. Depending upon the quality of the casket, burial vault and other merchandise selected, a traditional funeral and burial cost could be less than $5,000 or exceed $10,000.
What is the cost of a funeral in the New England states? The National Funeral Directors Association state that the average funeral in the U.S. costs $7,755 (excluding any cemetery costs) and the average cremation costs around $3,500. Connecticut is the only New England state where residents must employ a funeral director by law. Maine, New Hampshire and Vermont have all witnessed a significant rise in the cremation rate over the last decade, whilst Connecticut, Massachusetts and Rhode Islands cremation rate is around the national average.
Prices for a cremation or a burial do vary by area and by funeral home, so it can be quite difficult to quote a general price for services. The National Association of Funeral Directors quote the average price of a funeral today at $7,755 (NFDA 2012), although this does not include cemetery costs. Call us with any Questions: (617) 221-7778 (24 hour assistance) Arranging a funeral or cremation in Massachusetts Funeral Homes City Listings This funeral-planning guide from US Funerals Online aims to explain some of the main things you need to know if you are planning a funeral or cremation in Massachusetts.