A: No, it's not true. It's the store's choice whether to take back a bad bottle -- just as it's your choice whether you want to buy your wine from a retailer who won't. Admittedly, lots of people -- even some retailers -- are confused about this. 
1 You may take up to five liters of alcohol with alcohol content between 24% and 70% per person in checked luggage if its packaged in a sealable bottle. 2  However, you can’t take alcoholic beverages with more than 70% alcohol content (140 proof), including 95% grain alcohol and 150 proof rum, in your checked luggage. 1 Alcohol beverages with less than 24% alcohol content, such as wine and many spirits, are not subject to hazardous materials regulations. 2  You may take up to five liters of alcohol with alcohol content between 24% and 70% per person in checked luggage if its packaged in a sealable bottle.
In fact, we take back more than we sell! For years we have been taking back Liquor Control Board of Ontario (LCBO) beer containers and with the introduction of the Ontario Deposit Return Program (ODRP) in 2007, we began to accept back for deposit refund all liquor containers over 100ml – wine, spirits and coolers. At the Beer Store environmental leadership is a core value. We are one of the few retailers in North America that takes back all the packaging we sell. Bottles, cans, cardboard packaging, bottle caps, plastic rings and bags, you name it – if we sell it – we take it back.
Return policy. I asked the people at return desk at my local Costco store what the policy was for returning wine. They said for sure that if the wine is bad (corked, spoiled, etc.) they will take it back. If you did not like the style of wine you probably will not get a return. You don’t need to be a member of Costco to shop there for wine. Because of alcohol laws, Costco cannot restrict the sale of wine and spirits on a membership basis. Just tell them at the door you want to shop for alcohol. You will get in and be able to buy wine.
Ardyane, Under California law, the only reason you can return wine is if the bottle itself is somehow flawed or damaged. Even then, you can only return it for exchange of the same type of wine. I hope this helps. If so, please click accept so I can receive credit for my time. Thanks. Amy Hightower, Lawyer.
The bottle should be sealed and tagged with a statement as to the date and reason for its return and should be sent back to the manufacturer or wholesaler from whom it was purchased within a reasonable time. “No, the State Liquor Authority does not approve the acceptance by a package store of the return of liquor or wine purchased by a customer in error.
Report Abuse. If you have a recent receipt and the bottle has not been tampered with, you should not have a problem. But, if you bought it on sale and the store has a no return on sales policy, then you are out of luck. Best thing to do would then be to give it away. Source(s): Past experience. supermum · 6 years ago. 
It is against the law everywhere in the US to return any unopened bottles of any alcoholic beverage to the place of purchase. 
But there’s nothing in the law saying that they can’t accept them.”. As the owner of a wine and spirit store, I can assure you that this subject has been a real issue for decades for wine and liquor stores not only in our area, but in all of New York. “No, the State Liquor Authority does not approve the acceptance by a package store of the return of liquor or wine purchased by a customer in error.