One of the most complex parts of paying your employees is properly deducting money from employees' pay. The reason deductions from pay can be extremely complicated is due to the fact that various federal laws apply, and state laws may apply as well. The best approach an employer can take is to understand the three basic categories of deductions that are made from employees' pay and how to properly make them. Be sure you have the employee's signature before making any deductions. Generally, benefit premiums are paid monthly, but employees are sometimes paid more frequently. The best way to handle this is to prorate the premium amount over the number of pay periods in the month.
With Intuit’s FREE paycheck calculator, you can calculate paychecks for hourly or salary employees with confidence. Simply enter your employee’s pay information, and we’ll crunch the numbers and show you how much to pay and what to deduct for taxes. 
The deduction reduces Mackenzie's regular hourly rate (pay divided by hours) to $7 — which falls below the minimum wage. Instead, the employer should spread the cost of the uniform out over four weeks. The employer could deduct $20 a week for four weeks. Be sure you have the employee's signature before making any deductions. Generally, benefit premiums are paid monthly, but employees are sometimes paid more frequently. The best way to handle this is to prorate the premium amount over the number of pay periods in the month.
Deductions for Overpayments. Generally, if you paid an employee too much because of a legitimate bookkeeping error, you can deduct the mistaken overpayment from wages, even if the deduction reduces the pay below the statutory minimum wage for a particular pay period. Be sure you have the employee's signature before making any deductions. Generally, benefit premiums are paid monthly, but employees are sometimes paid more frequently. The best way to handle this is to prorate the premium amount over the number of pay periods in the month.
Minimum Salary Requirements. The minimum compensation for a salary basis employee is $455 per week. If you pay any of your salaried employees on a salary or fee basis, the amount has to equal or exceed $455 per week. The minimum weekly salary for your computer-related salaried employee is also $455 per week. If you suspend a salaried employee without pay, you may only make full-day deductions. If your company compensates employees for jury duty or military services, you may make a deduction to offset the amount they receive from the court or armed services.
You may also give comp time to an employee who doesn't work 40 hours in a week, even with the extra time. Example. Traci stays late four days in a row to help you finish an important project. You want to show your appreciation for her efforts, so you give her the next week off. However, if an employee starts working before that period of 15 or 30 minutes has elapsed, you have to pay the employee for the actual time that he or she worked and cannot dock him or her for the full amount of the period. Example. Jennifer calls in to tell you that she will be 20 minutes late getting to work.
You must not make hourly deductions from the earnings of a salaried employee. Hourly deductions may void the employee’s status as exempt. This might lead to penalties and overtime wage claims. You may take a deduction for a full day of work that a salaried employee misses due to a personal-or sick-related event. If you suspend a salaried employee without pay, you may only make full-day deductions. If your company compensates employees for jury duty or military services, you may make a deduction to offset the amount they receive from the court or armed services.
Even if you have rules in place, if many of your employees come in late without consequences, you can’t single out one employee for disciplinary action. That could open your company up to fines or a lawsuit for discrimination. If “everyone is doing it,” you’ll need to address the issue with the whole staff. Check your written policies, if you have them. If employee tardiness is covered, reminding Joe about the rules might be all you have to do. If you don’t have written rules, or you need to change the rules you have, make new ones that address late arrivals, so you can avoid problems going forward.
Wage type should be generated for number of hours maintained in IT 2010 during payroll process based on the following formula. 1 hour overtime=employee’s one day one hour basic salary. How overtime amount will be generated for number of hours maintained in IT 2010. Please clarify With regards SAP HR Professional. 
A: This answer is really part benefits and part payroll. (Payroll) An employee will not be able to prepay any deduction such as credit union, 401k, or any agency specific deduction for an unpaid leave of absence. The employee will have to settle directly with the vendor for these deductions. Q: A: All shift and overtime pay for hours earned before go-live that are not paid in Central Payroll prior to going live will be paid through infotype 2010 using a Pre SAP wage type.