This is probably the historical basis for prescriptive specifications and is not necessarily appropriate for the broad requirements and challenges for concrete construction today. This problem is compounded when the specification calls for prescriptive and performance criteria that conflict. For the most part specifications today still have prescriptive provisions such as specifying the types and quantities of the mixture ingredients, limits on cementitious materials, water-cement ratios, aggregate grading, etc.
A specification may refer to a type of technical standard (the main topic of this page). Using the word specification without additional information to what kind of specification you refer to is confusing and considered bad practice within systems engineering. A Requirement specification is a set of documented requirements to be satisfied by a material, design, product, or service. A data sheet is not a technical specification as described in this article. A . In-service  or  Maintained as  specification, specifies the conditions of a system or object after years of operation, including the effects of wear and maintenance (configuration changes).
A prescriptive specification is one that includes clauses for means and methods of construction and composition of the concrete mix rather than defining performance requirements. 
The producer is always called on when the mix does not perform even though this is in conflict with the basic premise of a prescriptive specification as clearly indicated in ASTM C 94, Specification for Ready Mixed Concrete. The general concept of how a performance-based specification for concrete would work is as follows: There would be a qualification/certification system that establishes the requirements for a quality control management system, qualification of personnel and requirements for concrete production facilities.
A prescriptive specification is one that includes clauses for means and methods of construction and composition of the concrete mix rather than defining performance requirements. The general concept of how a performance-based specification for concrete would work is as follows: There would be a qualification/certification system that establishes the requirements for a quality control management system, qualification of personnel and requirements for concrete production facilities.
Prescription for performance: Breckenridge Material leverages ... by Marsh, Don / Concrete Products. MATERIALS TESTING IS A CRITICAL ISSUE FOR PLASTICS COMPOUND AND MASTERBATCH PRODUCERS WHO MUST FULFIL CUSTOMER REQUIREMENTS AND DEMONSTRATE THAT THEIR PRODUCTS SATISFY PRESCRIPTIVE SPECIFICATIONS. 
Performance specification. Specifications are written documents that describe the materials and workmanship required for a development. They do not include cost, quantity or drawn information but need to be read alongside other contract documentation such as quantities, schedules and drawings. Tenders are based on an output-based specification setting out only the functional requirements for the development and not prescribing how those requirements should be achieved (see OGC: Whole-life costing and cost management).
CSA A23.1 – 04 Prescriptive CSA defines a prescriptive specification “as a method of specifying a construction product in which all processes, activities, materials, proportions and methods to achieve a final outcome are specified in mandatory language”. Performance Specification An alternate approach would be to specify the performance level such as a floor slab to support a maximum traffic load, defined traffic lanes, racking load and type of forklift.