Just because you're 65, you don't have to get a helmet hairstyle with your Social Security check. In fact, a younger look and lighter color can take years off your face (see the picture, right). And just because you're 21, you don't have to have long hair. You can do just about anything, lucky you. The key to a great haircut at any age is two-fold. 1 Hair that is too styled can make you look dated. 2  Even if hair is short, don't go for a spiky look, instead ask for longer layers. 3  Cut out pictures and bring them to the stylist with you. 4  A lighter color can take years off your face.
1 Xper mho 16%. Long hair makes guys look younger, while shoulder length hair makes girls look younger. You don't look younger than your age, if anything, you look older than 21. So if you're worried about that, I wouldn't be. If you want long hair, then go for it. I always have my hair short but I decided to grow it this time. However, I think that long hair on me makes me look really young and I look too young for my age as it is. I'm 21 and look about 16. But my sister seems to think that long hair on guys makes them look older but I think it's the other way round.
Sometimes short hair makes you look younger,sometimes not so much. But i agree with your grandma, when you get older your hair usually starts to thin & long hair just doesnt look that attarctive. Source(s): Just makes sense in my mind & All my grandmas [i have 6 btw lol] have short hair. HeadBanger · 7 years ago. I told my grandma one day she should grow her hair out, but she told me that at some point, you just shouldn't have long hair. and that her short hair makes her look younger. I was watching a commercial today with a girl...
Look Younger with Short Hair Does short hair really make you look younger? There are no more rules for age appropriate haircuts or lengths of hair in our time. But there seems to be a certain magic in short haircuts that captivates women of all ages and of course the men who admire them. Fun makes us happy, and when we are happy, we are beautiful. Just take a look at some celebrities who look good with their very short hair. (Click to enlarge) Ginnifer Goodwin Still a younger woman, the comparison of Ginnifer Goodwin's long hair and her charming short haircut show what this article is about.
people say when you have long hair, you look younger, and short hair, you look older. I told my grandma one day she should grow her hair out, but she told me that at some point, you just shouldn't have long hair. and that her short hair makes her look younger. I was watching a commercial today with a girl...
Volume is Key. Hair generally gets thinner with age, and sparse strands make you look older. That's why the perfect haircut builds volume into the hair. Ask your stylist for layers that will enhance the volume and thickness of your locks, says Russo. When you style your hair at home, use a few tricks to achieve even more volume. 