But, while they are both types of genetic material, RNA and DNA are rather different. The chemical units of RNA are like those of DNA, except that RNA has the nucleotide uracil (U) instead of thymine (T). Unlike double-stranded DNA, RNA usually comes as only a single strand. And the nucleotides in RNA contain ribose sugar molecules in place of deoxyribose. 
Messenger RNA (mRNA) is the RNA that carries information from DNA to the ribosome, the sites of protein synthesis (translation) in the cell. The coding sequence of the mRNA determines the amino acid sequence in the protein that is produced. Ribosomal RNA (rRNA) is the catalytic component of the ribosomes. Eukaryotic ribosomes contain four different rRNA molecules: 18S, 5.8S, 28S and 5S rRNA. Three of the rRNA molecules are synthesized in the nucleolus, and one is synthesized elsewhere.
D) DNA contains the base uracil, whereas RNA contains the base thymine. E) DNA encodes hereditary information, whereas RNA does not; the bases in DNA form base-paired duplexes, whereas the bases in RNA do not; and DNA nucleotides contain a different sugar than RNA nucleotides. 
Adenine, Uracil, Cytosine and Guanine; (adenine bonds with uracil) and (cytosine bonds with guanine). Thymine DOES NOT appear in the sequence; for instance if the DNA stra …. 8 people found this useful. 1 Nucleotide Bases Nucleotide bases are heterocyclic atoms composed of nitrogen, a phosphate group, and a five-carbon sugar. 2  They play an important role in the structure of both DNA and RNA, he…. 3  The Five Major Parts of the Brain At its most basic, the brain controls the body.
Uracil is in RNA and Thyramine is in DNA, the other nitrogen bases are the same In RNA Adenine is complementary to Uracil and Guanine is complementary to cytocine In DNA Adeni … ne is complementarty to Tyramine and Guanine is complentary to cytocine. 1 Nucleotide Bases Nucleotide bases are heterocyclic atoms composed of nitrogen, a phosphate group, and a five-carbon sugar. 2  They play an important role in the structure of both DNA and RNA, he…. 3  The Five Major Parts of the Brain At its most basic, the brain controls the body.
Submit. · just now. Report Abuse. Hi! The correct answer is D) Uracil! Uracil is ONLY found in RNA, and not DNA! Also, Thymine is ONLY found in DNA, and not RNA! Hope I helped you! Source(s): Student Doctor. MatT · 6 years ago. Thumbs up. 0. Thumbs down. 0. Comment
In DNA, the four bases are: adenine, guanine, thymine, and cytosine. Each base is attached is attached to a sugar (deoxyribose) to form a nucleoside. Respectively, t … hese are: adenosine, guanosine, thymidine, and cytidine. The complete nucleotide consists of the nucleoside attached to a phosphate group. The bases in RNA are:   * adenine (A)  * cytosine (C)  * guanine (G)  * uracil (U)   A and G are purines, whose molecules have two rings sharing a common side … ; C and U are pyrimidines, having a single ring. + 11 others found this useful.
The sugar in RNA's nucleotides is ribose instead of deoxyribose. 3. RNA contains the nitrogenous base uracil instead of the thymine in DNA. What are 3 types of RNA that have a role in protein synthesis? Messenger-mRNA-carries copies of instructions to other parts of the cell. Transfer-tRNA-Transfer RNA (tRNA) molecules transfer each amino acid to the ribosomes according to the coded instructions provided in the mRNA.
A. Introns are sections of nucleotides found on a mRNA transcript. B. RNA splicing usually removes introns from a mRNA molecule. C. Introns can function to regulate gene expression. D. The sequence of nucleotides found in introns are not known to represent anything usable by the cell.
Best Answer: A pairs with T in DNA C pairs with G in DNA in RNA A pairs with U U is the only nucleotide base found in RNA that isn't in DNA. Source(s): sennacheer07@sbcglobal.net · 5 years ago. Thumbs up. 