Answer by BowieBoy. Confidence votes 313. A bubo (Greek boubon, boubôn) (groin plural= form) buboes is a swelling of the lymph, nodes found in an infection such as bubonic, plague, gonorrhea tuberculosis or. syphilis This is because buboes are the swelling of lymph nodes and the neck, groin and armpit are junctions of the major lymphatic vessels. 2 people found this useful.
bubo. a tender, enlarged, and inflamed lymph node, particularly in the axilla or groin, resulting from absorption of infective material and occurring in various diseases, such as lymphogranuloma venereum, plague, syphilis, gonorrhea, chancroid, and tuberculosis. 
Forms of plague. Bubonic plague: Patients develop sudden onset of fever, headache, chills, and weakness and one or more swollen, tender and painful lymph nodes (called buboes). This form usually results from the bite of an infected flea. The bacteria multiply in the lymph node closest to where the bacteria entered the human body. Pneumonic plague is the most serious form of the disease and is the only form of plague that can be spread from person to person (by infectious droplets). Plague is a serious illness. If you are experiencing symptoms like those listed here, seek immediate medical attention.
A bubo (Greek boubon, boubôn) (groin plural: form) buboes is the swelling of the lymph. Nodes it is found in infections such as bubonic, plague, gonorrhea, tuberculosis chancroid or. syphilis A bubo (Greek boubon, boubôn) (groin plural: form) buboes is the swelling of the lymph. nodes
Bubo is singular word and buboes is plural word which means swelling of lymph nodes. In video you are visualizing lymph node of a patient who visited us with infected fistula and some growth over fistula margin which may of malignant. 
A bubo (Greek boubon, boubôn) (groin  plural: form) buboes is the swelling of the lymph. Nodes it is found  in infections such as bubonic, plague, gonorrhea,  tuberculosis … c hancroid or. Syphilis it is similar in appearance to a  huge, blister and usually appears under the, armpit in the groin or  on the. neck This is because buboes are the swelling of lymph nodes and the neck, groin and armpit are junctions of the major lymphatic vessels.
A bubo (Greek boubon, boubôn) (groin plural= form) buboes is a swelling of the lymph, nodes found in an infection such as bubonic, plague, gonorrhea tuberculosis or. Syphilis according to historical records they were also characteristic of the pandemic responsible for The Black death and perhaps other ancient. pandemics This is because buboes are the swelling of lymph nodes and the neck, groin and armpit are junctions of the major lymphatic vessels. 2 people found this useful.
A bubo (Greek boubon, boubôn) (groin  plural: form) buboes is the swelling of the lymph. Nodes it is found  in infections such as bubonic, plague, gonorrhea,  tuberculosis … c hancroid or. syphilis This is because buboes are the swelling of lymph nodes and the neck, groin and armpit are junctions of the major lymphatic vessels. 2 people found this useful.
Buboes particularly occur in the groin and armpit (the axillae). These swollen glands are seen in a number of infectious diseases, including gonorrhea, syphilis, tuberculosis, and the eponymous bubonic plague. 