If you’ve ever considered sleeping pills, you may have worried about how you’d feel the next day, whether you’d get hooked, and what other effects the medication might have on you. When used correctly, prescription sleep drugs are safe and effective, and can help you get through a patch of insomnia or fitful sleeping. Potential Side Effects of Prescription Sleep Drugs. These are a few of the most common problems you may experience while taking a sleep medication, and what you can do to avoid them.
Common side effects of prescription sleeping pills such as Lunesta, Sonata, Ambien, Rozerem, and Halcion may include: 1  Burning or tingling in the hands, arms, feet, or legs. 2  Changes in appetite. 3  Constipation. 4  Diarrhea. 5  Difficulty keeping balance. 6  Dizziness. 7  Daytime drowsiness. 8  Dry mouth or throat. 
You Can Quickly Build Up a Tolerance. When you take prescription sleeping pills over a long period of time, your body grows accustomed to the drug, and you need higher and higher doses to get the same sleep-inducing effect. But, if you take a high enough dose, this could lead to depressed breathing while you sleep, which can cause death. Erratic Behavior Side Effects. We’ve all been known to do strange things in our sleep, but prescription sleeping pills, particularly benzodiazepines such as triazolam, have been known to cause side effects like sleepwalking and amnesia. “You’ll wake up, and you won’t know where you are,” Leavey says.
Side effects of prescription sleeping pills. Always ask your doctor about potential side effects before making a decision about which sleeping pills to consider taking. Depending on the type, prescription sleeping pills may include side effects such as: 1  Dizziness or lightheadedness. 2  Headache. 3  Gastrointestinal problems, such as diarrhea and nausea. 4  Prolonged drowsiness, more so with drugs that help you stay asleep. 5  Severe allergic reaction
People who took prescription sleeping pills were more likely to die or get cancer than those who did not take them, according to a 2012 study published in BMJ Open. Though the results are concerning, they don’t necessarily mean that these drugs definitely cause negative side effects. Erratic Behavior Side Effects. We’ve all been known to do strange things in our sleep, but prescription sleeping pills, particularly benzodiazepines such as triazolam, have been known to cause side effects like sleepwalking and amnesia. “You’ll wake up, and you won’t know where you are,” Leavey says.
Though they do have legitimate uses, sleeping pills also come with significant risks and side effects, which many people don’t realize, says Marc Leavey, MD, a doctor of internal medicine at MD Mercy Hospital in Baltimore. “They’re fairly safe and well-tolerated,” Dr. Leavey says. Erratic Behavior Side Effects. We’ve all been known to do strange things in our sleep, but prescription sleeping pills, particularly benzodiazepines such as triazolam, have been known to cause side effects like sleepwalking and amnesia. “You’ll wake up, and you won’t know where you are,” Leavey says.
show more I was wondering if it is harmful to take an over the counter sleep aide with asprin in it. Last year I fractured my growth plate in my ankle, and when that healed I stress-fractured it in the same spot, so I often wake up when sleeping from the pain of moving it. The first day of school is tomorrow and, I usally... 
SHARE IT. a a a. Prescription and over-the-counter sleeping pills can be effective for solving your occasional bout with insomnia. However, even when used properly, these drugs may have some unpleasant or even harmful side effects. Learn more about the potential side effects of sleeping pills and how to avoid them. Although it is one of the rarer side effects, some people experience an allergic reaction to sleeping pills. In some cases, this can be a severe allergic reaction (anaphylaxis) or severe facial swelling (angioedema). This can cause breathing problems and can even be life-threatening.