Currently spacer foam or spacer fabric is very expensive due to the fact that far more yarn goes into the making of it than traditional knits, and more time is required on the knitting machines. There is also an added expense in molding this fabric into a cup shape using a special finishing process. A new lingerie term has popped up recently. The term “spacer foam” is being used when describing some new t-shirt or contour bras. Currently several bras on the market use this spacer foam as the fabric in their seamless bras.
D 3 Spacer Fabric. D3 spacer fabric is an open, 3-dimensional knit combining as many as 3 different fibers, one on each side and one in the center, taking advantage of the best qualities of each fiber. Gehring Tricot has ability to achieve this through warp knit raschel, circular knit, and simplex equipment. 
SPACER FABRICS. Sextet has become the leader in Spacer Fabrics for intimate apparel. Both plain and jacquard are being used for applications ranging from molded bra cups to sports bras and industrial uses. Spacer knits are double-layered circular knits with a cushion of air and “spring-like” yarns between the two sides. This unique fabric class is knit in one continuous operation.
Types of Spacer Fabrics: Construction 3-D spacer fabrics that are constructed with a warp knitting machine have two fabric faces that are produced separately, and are usually about 0.4mm to 1 mm thick. In regard to appearance, spacer fabrics can be constructed in a many ways with varying fibers being utilized; different elongation and stretch properties, and even different patterns can be produced on the face fabric with the use of a piezo jacquard mechanism (Karl Mayer machines).
Spacer fabric is a specialized three-dimensional textile that uniquely facilitates air flow, breathability and lightweight shape support. 
Understanding the creation and production process of Spacer fabric is paramount to understanding what Spacer fabric actually is. Unlike regular, 2D fabrics, Spacer uses two separate fabrics, joined by microfilament yarn, to create a breathable, 3D “microclimate” between layers. Heat and vapor leave the body, moving to this highly permeable layer.
Spacer Fabrics. Eastex Spacer Fabrics are a highly breathable neoprene alternative with stretch compression. They consist of two covering fabrics connected with filaments in the middle. We offer a wide variety of thicknesses, allowing a flexibility of applications: from mattress covers to apparel. 
Spacer fabric is not three different fabrics laminated or glued together, instead it is all three fabrics woven together on a Raschel knitting machine. The most important and desirable feature of spacer fabric is that it breathes. 
Fairlane’s spacer knit fabric line includes the finest gauge spacer fabric such as jacquard fabric, pointelle fabric, waffle weave and ricrac fabric. The center portion is a forest of standing monofilament separating and spacing the outer layers which may be plain or fancy. Spacer knit fabrics enjoy great longevity without the deterioration that normally accompanies a laminated product.
Baltex is a leading producer of 3D spacer fabrics. Over the last 10 years we have developed XD Spacer, a range of 3 dimensional knitted spacer fabrics. These are mainly produced on double needle bar warp-knitting machines. Thicknesses vary from 3mm to 20mm. We use both warp-knit and weft-knit technologies and are a leader in this field of textiles. Spacer Fabrics are being widely used for the replacement of foam and neoprene products. With the possibility of knitting different fibres on different faces many properties can be achieved. XD Spacer Fabrics are being used in the following key applications: 1  CYCLE HELMETS.