LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. noun. The definition of mechanical energy is power that an object gets from its position and motion. 1  An example of mechanical energy is the power of a football flying through the air. 2  An example of mechanical energy is a wrecking ball that is swung backwards away from a building. 1
In the physical sciences, mechanical energy is the sum of potential energy and kinetic energy. It is the energy associated with the motion and position of an object. The principle of conservation of mechanical energy states that in an isolated system that is only subject to conservative forces the mechanical energy is constant. An example of a mechanical system: A satellite is orbiting the Earth only influenced by the conservative gravitational force and the mechanical energy is therefore conserved. The satellite is accelerated towards the Earth with an acceleration perpendicular to the velocity.
In science, mechanical energy is the sum of potential energy and kinetic energy. It is the energy associated with the motion and position of an object. The law of conservation of mechanical energy states that in an isolated system that is only subject to conservative forces the mechanical energy is constant. 
Mechanical Energy as the Ability to Do Work. An object that possesses mechanical energy is able to do work. In fact, mechanical energy is often defined as the ability to do work. Any object that possesses mechanical energy-whether it is in the form of potential energy or kinetic energy-is able to do work. As already mentioned, the mechanical energy of an object can be the result of its motion (i.e., kinetic energy) and/or the result of its stored energy of position (i.e., potential energy). The total amount of mechanical energy is merely the sum of the potential energy and the kinetic energy.
Let's describe mechanical energy in more detail. As I said before, mechanical energy is the energy possessed by an object due to its movement or position. In other words, an object possesses mechanical energy when it has the ability to do work due to its position or motion. Mechanical energy can take the form of either kinetic energy, which is energy due to an object's motion, or potential energy, which is stored energy due to an object's position. Mechanical energy comes in two forms: kinetic energy, in which an object has the ability to do work when it moves, and potential energy, in which an object has the ability to do work due to its position. In either case, mechanical energy is the ability to do work.
An object which possesses mechanical energy is able to do work. In fact, mechanical energy is often defined as the ability to do work. Any object which possesses mechanical energy-whether it be in the form of potential energy or kinetic energy-is able to do work. That is, its mechanical energy enables that object to apply a force to another object in order to cause it to be displaced.
Mechanical energy is the sum of kinetic and potential energy in an object that is used to do work. In other words, it is energy in an object due to its motion or position, or both. In the 'open door' example above, I possess potential chemical energy (energy stored in me), and by lifting my hands to push the door, my action also had kinetic energy (energy in the motion of my hands).