Starch. Foods high in starch include: 1  Starchy vegetables like peas, corn, lima beans and potatoes. 2  Dried beans, lentils and peas such as pinto beans, kidney beans, black eyed peas and split peas. 3  Grains like oats, barley and rice. ( 4 The majority of grain products in the US are made from wheat flour. 1
Low-carb diets. Low-carbohydrate (low-carb) diets usually involve cutting out most starchy foods. These diets tend to be high in fat, and eating a high-fat diet (especially saturated fat from foods such as meat, cheese and butter) could increase your risk of heart disease. Starchy foods such as potatoes, bread, cereals, rice and pasta should make up about a third of the food you eat, as shown by the eatwell plate. Where you can, choose wholegrain varieties, or eat potatoes with their skins on for more fibre. Starch is the most common form of carbohydrate in our diet.
The good carbs on the list of carbohydrate foods can provide your body with energy, optimum nutrition, proper brain and organ function and a healthy, attractive appearance. But bad carbs are detrimental to a healthy diet. And consistently eating from the bad carbs list will rapidly sabotage all your health and weight management goals. So choose all of your carbohydrates from this great list of healthy carbohydrate foods.
Carbs is a shortened version of the word carbohydrates, which are macronutrients containing sugars. Carbohydrates are further broken down into distinct categories. 1  Simple carbohydrates-Examples of simple carbohydrates include dairy products, candy, baked goods, fruit, and processed sugars.
Understanding Carbohydrates. How much and what type of carbohydrate foods are important for managing diabetes. The balance between how much insulin is in your body and the carbohydrate you eat makes a difference in your blood glucose levels. Learn more about how much and what foods to include in your meal plan. Featured book: The Complete Guide to Carb Counting, 3rd Edition
Bad carbs are carbohydrate foods that have been highly refined and processed, removing most of the nutritional value and fiber. They're generally loaded with high-calorie fats, sweeteners, preservatives and other unhealthy additives. With all the processing and additives, bad carbs can be made to be temptingly tasty. But bad carbs are detrimental to a healthy diet. And consistently eating from the bad carbs list will rapidly sabotage all your health and weight management goals. So choose all of your carbohydrates from this great list of healthy carbohydrate foods.
1 Simple carbohydrates-Examples of simple carbohydrates include dairy products, candy, baked goods, fruit, and processed sugars. 2  Complex carbohydrates-Examples include rice, corn, flour, whole grains, and legumes. Carbohydrates are further broken down into distinct categories. 1 
Food Calculator. Type in a food or drink. Enter a brand or restaurant name to narrow your search. Get the nutrition lowdown on all your meals and everything in between. Find out the calories, carbs, fat, fiber, and more in over 37,000 foods and drinks. Whether you're eating out or dining in, this tool helps you make healthy choices.
The Good Carb Bad Carb Bottom Line Unhealthy bad carbs are filled with empty calories that have no nutritional value. And eating a diet high in bad carbohydrate foods, as most everyone does, increases your risk of heart disease, stroke, arthritis, Alzheimer's disease, diabetes and obesity. But bad carbs are detrimental to a healthy diet. And consistently eating from the bad carbs list will rapidly sabotage all your health and weight management goals. So choose all of your carbohydrates from this great list of healthy carbohydrate foods.