Open (simple) prostatectomy has 3 different approaches: retropubic, suprapubic, and perineal. Simple retropubic prostatectomy is the enucleation of a hyperplastic prostatic adenoma through a direct incision of the anterior prostatic capsule. In the retropubic (Millin) prostatectomy, the patient is placed on the operating room table in the supine position in mild Trendelenburg. In the suprapubic approach, place the patient in a supine position on the operative table, with the umbilicus over the break of the table.
Open prostatectomy is the surgical removal of the prostate gland. It is done under a general or spinal anesthetic. Usually, an incision is made through the lower abdomen, although sometimes the incision is made between the rectum and the base of the penis. 
Radical Prostatectomy. Guide. A radical prostatectomy is an operation to remove the prostate gland and some of the tissue around it. It is done to remove prostate cancer. This operation may be done by open surgery. Or it may be done by laparoscopic surgery through small incisions. Laparoscopic surgery may be done by hand. 
Prostatectomy (Greek, - prostates, prostate, combined with the suffix-ektomē, excision) is a medical term for the surgical removal of all or part of the prostate gland. This operation is done for benign conditions that cause urinary retention, as well as for prostate cancer and other cancers of the pelvis. Simple prostatectomies are typically only done for benign conditions. A radical prostatectomy, the removal of the entire prostate gland, the seminal vesicles and the vas deferens, is performed for malignant cancer.
This surgery is not used to treat prostate cancer. A radical prostatectomy is the main surgery used to treat prostate cancer. In a radical prostatectomy, the entire prostate gland is removed as well as certain other structures. However, if your prostate is very large, none of the minimally invasive methods will be possible. A surgeon will need to remove the core of the gland through a large incision in your abdomen. This kind of surgery is called a simple prostatectomy.
Radical prostatectomy. RADICAL RETROPUBIC PROSTATECTOMY. This is a useful approach if the prostate is very large, or cancer is suspected. With the patient under general or spinal anesthesia or an epidural, a horizontal incision is made in the center of the lower abdomen. 
Definition. Simple prostate removal is a procedure to remove the inside part of the prostate gland to treat an enlarged prostate. It is done through a surgical cut in your lower belly. Prostatectomy-simple; Suprapubic prostatectomy; Retropubic simple prostatectomy; Open prostatectomy; Millen procedure. 
In a retropubic prostatectomy, the prostate is removed through an incision in the wall of the abdomen. In a perineal prostatectomy, the prostate is removed through an incision in the area between the scrotum and the anus. Image courtesy of National Cancer Institue. In the retropubic (Millin) prostatectomy, the patient is placed on the operating room table in the supine position in mild Trendelenburg. In the suprapubic approach, place the patient in a supine position on the operative table, with the umbilicus over the break of the table.
Simple = removal for benign disease process. Suprapubic or Simple Retropubic Prostatectomy (SPP and SRP) are operations that areperformed to remove the enlarged center portion of the prostate (referred to as the transitionzone).
A prostatectomy is a surgical procedure for the partial or complete removal of the prostate. It may be performed to treat prostate cancer or benign prostatic hyperplasia. A common surgical approach to prostatectomy includes making a surgical incision and removing the prostate gland (or part of it). 