Cell Structure. The structure of cells varies according to the type and purpose of the cell (for example, which functions it is performing and in which part of the body). All plant and animal cells contain organelles which are structures within the cell that are specialised for particular functions. Cell Membrane. The cell membrane keeps the cell together by containing the organelles within it. Cell membranes are selectively-permeable, allowing materials to move both into and outside of the cell. Centrosomes. The centrosomes contain the centrioles, which are responsible for cell-division.
Animal Cell Structure. Animal cells are typical of the eukaryotic cell, enclosed by a plasma membrane and containing a membrane-bound nucleus and organelles. Animal Cell Structure Animal cells are typical of the eukaryotic cell, enclosed by a plasma membrane and containing a membrane-bound nucleus and organelles. Unlike the eukaryotic cells of plants and fungi, animal cells do not have a cell wall.
There are two primary types of cells: eukaryotic cells and prokaryotic cells. Eukaryotic cells are called so because they have a true nucleus. The nucleus, which houses DNA, is contained within a membrane and separated from other cellular structures. Prokaryotic cells however have no true nucleus. DNA in a prokaryotic cell is not separated from the rest of the cell but coiled up in a region called the nucleoid. As organized in the Three Domain System, prokaryotes include archaeans and bacteria. Eukaryotes include animals, plants, fungi and protists. On average, prokaryotic cells are about 10 times smaller in diameter than eukaryotic cells. Eukaryotes grow and reproduce through a process called mitosis. In organisms that also reproduce sexually, the reproductive cells are produced by a type of cell division called meiosis.
Plant Cell Structure. A plant cells are eukaryotic cells, with the presence of true nucleus, multicellular large and advanced membrane bound organelles. These plant cells are quite different from animal cells like in shape and other few organelles which are only found in animal cells but are absent in plant cells. 
Plasma membrane. This is the outer most membrane of the cell, within which all protoplasmic structures are included. In plants, cell wall acts as an additional protective layer, but in animal cell, plasma membrane itself is the bounding membrane.
7. The plasma membrane is the outer membrane of a cell, it encloses the cell itself, maintaining specific conditions for cellular function within the cell. Since it is selectively permeable, the plasma membrane plays an important role in the entrance and exit of substances. 
The cell (from Latin cella, meaning small room) is the basic structural, functional, and biological unit of all known living organisms. Cells are the smallest unit of life that can replicate independently, and are often called the building blocks of life. The study of cells is called cell biology. Cells consist of cytoplasm enclosed within a membrane, which contains many biomolecules such as proteins and nucleic acids. Organisms can be classified as unicellular (consisting of a single cell; including bacteria) or multicellular (including plants and animals). 
It is also important to know something about each of these organelles: Cell Membrane. The cell membrane keeps the cell together by containing the organelles within it. Cell membranes are selectively-permeable, allowing materials to move both into and outside of the cell. Centrosomes. The centrosomes contain the centrioles, which are responsible for cell-division.
The Cell Membrane is a Fluid Mosaic. A cell is the basic unit of life, and all organisms are made up of one or many cells. One of the things that all cells have in common is a cell membrane. It is a barrier that separates a cell from its surrounding environment. 
Explore Cell Press Reviews. Check out the new Cell Press Reviews webpage! You can now access reviews published across Cell Press research journals and Trends journals from a single webpage. 