STAY INFORMED. Darier's disease, or keratosis follicularis, is a pruritic, autosomal dominant inherited disease with multiple discrete scaling, crusted, and pruritic papules; it is malodorous and disfiguring and also involves the nails and mucous membranes. 
A form of Darier disease known as the linear or segmental form is characterized by blemishes on localized areas of the skin. The blemishes are not as widespread as they are in typical Darier disease. The linear form of Darier disease is caused by ATP2A2 gene mutations that are acquired during a person's lifetime and are present only in certain cells.
Keratosis follicularis, also known as Darier disease (DD) or Darier-White disease, is an autosomal dominantly inherited genodermatosis characterized by greasy hyperkeratotic papules in seborrheic regions, nail abnormalities, and mucous membrane changes. Background. Keratosis follicularis, also known as Darier disease (DD) or Darier-White disease, is an autosomal dominantly inherited genodermatosis characterized by greasy hyperkeratotic papules in seborrheic regions, nail abnormalities, and mucous membrane changes. See the images below.
INTRODUCTION. Darier disease, also known as Darier-White disease or keratosis follicularis (MIM #1242000), is a rare autosomal dominant genodermatosis. It is characterized by a persistent eruption of greasy hyperkeratotic papules in seborrheic areas, nail abnormalities, and mucosal changes [ 1 ]. 
Darier disease is also known as ‘keratosis follicularis’. It is a genetic disorder that causes skin changes. Onset of skin changes is usually in adolescence and the disease is usually long term. It is inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means that a single gene passed from one parent causes the condition. 
Darier's disease (DAR), also known as Darier disease, Darier–White disease, Dyskeratosis follicularis and Keratosis follicularis, is an autosomal dominant disorder discovered by French dermatologist Ferdinand-Jean Darier. Darier's is characterized by dark crusty patches on the skin, sometimes containing pus. Characteristics [edit]. Darier disease affects both men and women and is not contagious. The disease often starts during or later than the teenage years, typically by the third decade. Short stature is common.
Darier disease (Darier-White disease, keratosis follicularis). Darier disease is a rare genetic disorder characterized primarily by skin changes. The onset of skin changes usually occurs in adolescence. The severity of the disease may fluctuate over time, but it is chronic and lifelong. In normal skin, the skin cells are held together like bricks cemented in a wall. 
The severity of the disease varies over time. A form of Darier disease known as the linear or segmental form is characterized by blemishes on localized areas of the skin. Darier disease is not an infection and the blemishes are not contagious. Symptoms usually first appear in late childhood or early adulthood. Overview. Darier disease is an inherited skin condition characterized by wart-like blemishes on the body usually located on the scalp, forehead, upper arms, chest, back, knees, elbows, and behind the ear.
Darier disease is a skin condition characterized by wart-like blemishes on the body. The blemishes are usually yellowish in color, hard to the touch, mildly greasy, and can emit a strong odor. The linear form of Darier disease is caused by ATP2A2 gene mutations that are acquired during a person's lifetime and are present only in certain cells.