The Fixed Costs of Condominium Conversion. The basic costs of conversion, such as the application fees, surveying fees, and attorney fees, are well-known and may be determined in advance. Our office is happy to tell you exactly what these costs will be, and we welcome your inquiry.
Carmelo Mel , , 07031. Depending in what state you are looking to do this condo conversion it all depends. In NJ first and foremost find an attorney who has experience in condo conversions, it is less of a headache if you find the right one, Vincent Lapaglia in Hoboken NJ is a really good one.
Often times, renovations will be needed to convert the apartments into a condominium. For example, the individual condominium units may need to have separate utilities (i.e. heating systems, electrical, water, etc.) or changes may be needed to comply with building codes or fire regulations.
The recording fees for the condominium documents will cost approximately $500. The Condo Conversion Process. The condominium conversion process requires the efforts of an attorney, an engineer or land surveyor, and an architect. As your attorney, I will prepare a Master Deed, Declaration of Trust, and Bylaws.
There is over 34 years of real estate experience and over 16 years condo conversion experience available for you to tap in to. All you have to do is order the CSI Condominium Conversion Handbook©.
First, some legal background. In condominium conversion, the owner(s) of a building with at least two units elect(s) to process a subdivision map and record a declaration of restrictions to divide the property into condominiums.
For the building of a condominium complex of two units, the typical costs include: 1  With lux-range materials, a normal foundation with full basement, efficient doors and windows, all appliances, and turnkey finishing would run at an average of $102,000 to $240,000 per unit to complete.
The average cost of a condo conversion between master deed and hiring an architect for floor plans can range from $10-15K. Also in NJ a condo conversion 6units and under are relaltivily easy and fast, over 6 units can become more complicated and time consuming.
Should You Convert To Condos?Condominium conversion is a complicated process. What with local, state and federal regulation, as well as a plethora of specialists to deal with – title companies, surveyors, attorneys, and various city departments -- it seems purposely designed to confuse.