Trazodone is especially useful as a sleep aid in people with depression, since it is effective for both insomnia and depression. Conversely, some antidepressants are likely to cause insomnia, even when taken in the morning. Trazodone can be used to treat insomnia caused by other antidepressant medications.
Trazodone (Desyrel) is an antidepressant that is used to treat depression. Some of the side effects associated with trazodone are somnolence, headache, dizziness, nausea, vomiting, blurred vision, low blood pressure, joint pain, nasal congestion, and weight changes.
Using Trazodone for sleep is taking a serious risk. Instead of using an anti-depressant with a sleep-inducing side effect to treat insomnia, look to supplements with natural, safe and effective ingredients. Trazodone Uses Trazodone is a medication prescribed to treat depression. Trazodone is used off label, however, to treat insomnia in many patients. Unfortunately, using Trazodone for sleep is not recommended because it can be dangerous and harmful. Still, thousands of people take this medication because one of its primary side effects is drowsiness.
TRAZODONE EXTENDED-RELEASE-ORAL. The medication you searched for has more than one listing. Multiple listings, which are compiled by generic name indicate a drug is available in more than one dose or in different forms, such as tablets, liquid or injection.
Trazodone: Risks and benefits. While trazodone is rarely used to treat depression alone any more, it's widely prescribed, off-label, at lower doses for treating insomnia, for several likely reasons. First, trazodone has one distinct advantage—and possibly a few others.
Trazodone is an anti-depressant that's often used as a sleep aid for many individuals with insomnia. Unfortunately, using Trazodone for sleep means a number of unpleasant side effects, along with the risk of dependency.
A: Trazodone is an antidepressant medication that affects chemicals in the brain that may become unbalanced and cause depression. It is primarily used to treat depression. However, medications are often prescribed for uses that are not specifically listed in the prescribing information or patient leaflets.
A: Trazodone (Desyrel) is an antidepressant commonly used to treat depression and sleep disorders. Some of the common side effects associated with trazodone include drowsiness, headache, constipation, and blurred vision.