From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The flatworms, or Platyhelminthes, Plathelminthes, or platyhelminths (from the Greek πλατύ, platy, meaning flat and ἕλμινς (root: ἑλμινθ-), helminth- , meaning worm) are a phylum of relatively simple bilaterian, unsegmented, soft-bodied invertebrates. These are often called flukes, as most have flat rhomboid shapes like that of a flounder (Old English floc). Flóc they have 11,000 11000, species more than all other platyhelminthes, combined and second only to roundworms among parasites on. metazoans
Worms in the phylum Platyhelminthes are called flatworms because they have flattened bodies. Some species of flatworms are free-living organisms that feed on small organisms and rotting matter. These types of flatworms include marine flatworms and fresh-water flatworms such as Dugesia (Figure below and Figure below). Characteristics of Flatworms. There are specific differences between the flatworms and the roundworms. 1  Unlike the flatworms, the roundworms have a body cavity with internal organs. 2  A roundworm has a complete digestive system, which includes both a mouth and an anus.
Annelids, unlike roundworms (or flatworms for that matter) are segmented. That is after all how they get their name (annelida = little ring). Annelids also have a very complex organ system. Roundworms only possess a reproduction system as they usually live in an organism's intestines and don't need to digest food. 
There are three types of flatworms: Planarians (Turbellaria) Flukes (Trematoda) Tapeworms (Cestoda) What is a Planarian? Planarians are an example of free-living flatworm. 
Flatworms vs Roundworms. Both flatworms and roundworms are quite dangerous and nuisance parasites of humans as well as of many other domestic animals. It is a common misunderstanding among people that both these types of worms are members of the same group. In fact, flatworms and roundworms belong to completely different phyla in the Kingdom: Animalia. They both are invertebrates and mostly parasitic animals. • Roundworms have a rigid outer covering called the cuticle. Often, flatworm has cilia on the surface of its body and not cuticle. • Flatworms are acoelomates that they do not have a body cavity, whereas roundworms are psuedocoelomates. • Flatworms have only one opening, which functions as both mouth and anus. However, roundworms have a complete digestive tract, with two separate openings for the mouth and anu
Three types of worms with different body types will be explored in this lesson: 1  Flatworms, which have ribbon-like bodies with no body cavity. 2  Roundworms, which have a body cavity but no segments. 3  Segmented worms, which have both a body cavity and segmented bodies. Characteristics of Flatworms. There are specific differences between the flatworms and the roundworms. 1  Unlike the flatworms, the roundworms have a body cavity with internal organs. 2  A roundworm has a complete digestive system, which includes both a mouth and an anus.
Platyhelminthes. are commonly called flatworms. There are both. parasitic. (dependent on a host organism for survival) and. free-living. forms of this group. Flatworms, either parasitic or free-living forms, have both sexes on the same individual, a condition referred to as. hermaphroditic. . Most Nematodes are free-living, but some are important parasites of plants and animals. As for the flatworms, nematode development includes all three embryonic tissue layers. Roundworms have a fluid-filled body cavity, that is lined on the outside by tissue derived from mesoderm.
General Flatworms. There are thousands of different types of flatworms, most are not dangerous to humans. Flatworms belong to one of four subsidiary groups. Those found in streams, ponds, moist soils, and the sea are the turbellarians. They are free-living, that is they move about looking for food
Flatworms also have a feature that the sponges and cnidarians do not, a middle layer of actual organized cells. Flatworms have three cell layers: an ectoderm, an outer covering like the other groups have; an endoderm, a lining of the digestive spaces somewhat like a cnidarians; and a mesoderm between the other two. With actual tissues protected like this, another evolutionary explosion of features happened.