Cinematic Uses. Moleskin as a cinematic term is actually completely different. Moleskin in the cinema refers to a flesh colored piece of adhesive fabric that is used to cover private areas of a body and simulate nakedness. This form of moleskin may or may not be made from the actual moleskin fabric
Inside view of a Moleskine ruled notebook; the elastic band is visible on the right, as is the bookmark in the center. Moleskine SpA (BIT: MSK) is an Italian company based in Milan, co-founded by the Italian designer Maria Sebregondi. Moleskine production includes notebooks, planners, diaries, sketchbooks, and albums. The notebook was officially reintroduced in 1997, establishing the Moleskine trademark; production started with 5,000 pieces. In 1999, Modo & Modo SpA started distributing outside Italy. By the 2000s Modo & Modo SpA had a small staff in Milan and sales of 20 million euros (or around $26 million).
Full Definition of MOLESKIN. 1. : the skin of the mole used as fur. 2. a: a heavy durable cotton fabric with a short thick velvety nap on one side b: a garment made of moleskin —usually used in plural c: adhesive padding (as for blisters) made of moleskin. See moleskin defined for English-language learners.
While moleskin refers to the skin of an animal called a mole, that is not the most common meaning for the term. The most common is a heavy napped cotton twill fabric that is extremely soft. The fabric is woven and then sheared to cause a soft, short pile on one side of the fabric. Moleskin as a cinematic term is actually completely different. Moleskin in the cinema refers to a flesh colored piece of adhesive fabric that is used to cover private areas of a body and simulate nakedness. This form of moleskin may or may not be made from the actual moleskin
Moleskin can be coated with an adhesive backing and used to prevent or treat friction injuries of the feet. In the case of a blister, the moleskin is cut with a hole in the centre so the fabric does not adhere to the blister directly. The thickness of the surrounding moleskin protects the blister from further friction. Moleskin is also commonly used in video and/or audio productions when using a lavalier microphone. When further concealment of a lavalier microphone is needed in these types of productions, it can be worn underneath a layer or layers of the singer's clothing.
The name simply refers to the similarity between the softness of mole fur and the softness of this cotton fabric, which has a velvety nap that feels similar to suede. It is not made from the actual fur or hide of a mole. This fabric is very densely woven, making it quite durable and easy to clean. Ad. The relief and prevention of blisters is another use for moleskin. One side of a bandage for this purpose is the soft moleskin, and the other side is adhesive. A hole is cut in the bandage where the blister is, and then the adhesive side is placed over the blister, sticking to the skin surrounding it.
The term moleskin may sound vaguely gross and bring to mind thoughts of animal cruelty and furs, but moleskin is actually a natural fabric made of cotton. Moleskin clothing and first aid bandages are common usages for this material. Moleskin as a cinematic term is actually completely different. Moleskin in the cinema refers to a flesh colored piece of adhesive fabric that is used to cover private areas of a body and simulate nakedness. This form of moleskin may or may not be made from the actual moleskin fabric
Licensed to About.com, Inc. Definition: Moleskine is a brand of notebook that comes in various formats, sizes, and papers. The covers are usually black leather (some special editions have silk, for instance, and diaries come in red) and there is an elastic band for keeping it closed. 
Moleskin is a heavy cotton fabric, woven and then sheared to create a short, soft pile on one side. In feel and appearance its nap is similar to felt or chamois, but less plush than velour. The word is also used for clothing made from this fabric, as well as adhesive pads stuck to the skin to prevent blisters. Moleskin is also commonly used in video and/or audio productions when using a lavalier microphone. When further concealment of a lavalier microphone is needed in these types of productions, it can be worn underneath a layer or layers of the singer's clothing.