Einkorn grows natively in a hull that does not separate from the kernel during harvest. To prepare einkorn for food, we use a dehulling process to remove the hull from the kernel. The result is einkorn berries ready to be ground into flour and used for baking. Eli, when you can offer whole organic wheat berries for me from which to grind my own flour – which is what I do with the wheat berries from Jovial – for $3/pound and free shipping, I will buy from you. Sometimes income dictates our actions and we are not bad people to buy what we can afford.
I buy hard red wheat berries and they remind me of brown rice in appearance. The wheat berry can be ground into flour, cooked as a hot breakfast cereal, soaked and sprouted, or cooked and used in place of rice in many different recipes like pilafs or salads. Making Bread from Fresh Ground Flour. Whenever I make bread from wheat berries I’m reminded of an epiphany in the story of Robinson Crusoe. I foresaw that, in time, it would please God to supply me with bread…It might be truly said, that now I worked for my bread.
The einkorn we offer is grown by our partner organic farmers in the western United States & Canada and yes it is organically grown. One cup of einkorn wheat berries will make about 1.5 cups of flour, depending on how finely you grind your flour. We do not sell einkorn flour yet but we plan to in the future. However, we do recommend as a best practice that you grind your own flour. Flour that is ground and not quickly used oxidizes and quickly loses many of its most valuable nutrients.
Jovial also sells einkorn berries online, as does our local Whole Foods, in its bulk bins. They not only can be ground into flour at home but also make an excellent breakfast porridge or can be used like farro or wheat berries in a grain salad. I also don’t use yeast, but a few tablespoons of kefir instead, letting it rest overnight. I usually do 2 cups einkorn flour + 1/2 cup water + 2 tablespoons kefir + 3 tablespoons coconut oil + 1 tsp salt. Thanks so much for this fun giveaway. Can’t wait to try einkorn porridge too.
Einkorn grows natively in a hull that does not separate from the kernel during harvest. To prepare einkorn for food, we use a dehulling process to remove the hull from the kernel. The result is einkorn berries ready to be ground into flour and used for baking. We do not sell einkorn flour yet but we plan to in the future. However, we do recommend as a best practice that you grind your own flour. Flour that is ground and not quickly used oxidizes and quickly loses many of its most valuable nutrients.
Einkorn berries have a longer shelf-life than einkorn flour (ground berries) when kept in sealed containers to prevent moisture and bugs from contaminating the grain. Einkorn flour (ground berries) can be stored in a cool, dry place for one to three months or long-term in the freezer. 
It was so simple, I had to make it. All you need to do is grind the entire 16oz box of Jovial’s einkorn wheat berries. In a small bowl, mix together 1 1/2 cups of warm water and 2 tsp of honey. Once the flour is ground, mix it together with 1 tsp salt. After the yeast has activated, add it to the flour. 
As you can see, einkorn is the purest and most ancient form of wheat available as it only has 2 sets of chromosomes and naturally contains a very different composition of gluten that is easier to digest for many with non-genetic gluten intolerance. Learn more in this article. Eli, when you can offer whole organic wheat berries for me from which to grind my own flour – which is what I do with the wheat berries from Jovial – for $3/pound and free shipping, I will buy from you. Sometimes income dictates our actions and we are not bad people to buy what we can afford.
A wide variety of grains, beans, seeds, and nuts can be ground into flour using your home grain mill. These include: wheat, rye, corn, rice, barley, oats, buckwheat, millet, kamut, quinoa, peas, mung beans, garbanzos, and lentils. Raw wheat berries are the hulled whole kernels. You can use these to make home milled flours, or cook or sprout them to make breads. Grains can be white, russet, purple, or amber in color. You can also find Spelt, Kamut, Emmer and Einkorn as whole grains. You can even grind popcorn to use in bread. Wheat-free (gluten-free) flour can also be used in breads made with wheat flour to enhance the flavor and provide unique texture. Organic Bread Flour – If you don’t want to get into home milling your own flour, try organic bread flour. It costs a little more than non-organic flour, but it is worth it!