Bees love flowers. Sunflower, barberry, geranium, cornflower, and broom are some of the most popular and attractive to bees. Roses are a special favorite of all types of bees. Honeybees make great use of rose pollen and create delicious honey. Another favorite is catnip. This exciting plant isn't just for cats--bees love it, too. It is a large, 2- to 3-foot plant with big, bold flowers that bees find as irresistible as cats do. 
‘Little Becka’ sunflower is a great, compact variety for honeybees and the garden. The decline in honey bees (Apis mellifera) has heightened the popularity of honey bee plants. Many favorite flowers for honey bees, like sweetclover, thistle, alfalfa and dandelion, are Eurasian plants too weedy for flower beds. The best honey bee plants provide a good supply of both sugary nectar and protein-rich pollen sought after by these and other long-tongued bees. Lots of beautiful garden flowers provide both in high quantities.
What to Plant. Bees are not attracted to many types of trees, such as elm, birch and oak, or to conifers, ground covers or shrubs. Ornamental grasses are an excellent choice if you do not want to attract bees to your yard, as bees are not attracted to them and they add beauty to the landscape. Bees help pollinate many types of plants, including garden plants like cucumbers, but for people who are allergic or do not want to attract bees to their yard, they can be a nuisance.
Bees and Flowers. Bees are attracted to flower nectar and pollen. Pollen is a source of direct food and energy for bees, and nectar is used to make honey, which is saved up for food as well. Bees' relationship with flowers stems even further, as bees are not the only beneficiary. Flowers also benefit from bees by way of pollination. Even with the right plants, a variety of flowers and multiple bunches of flowers, other factors may come into play with attracting bees or not. Mulch, which has become popular over the years, is something that deters bees from entering a garden. There are many bees that nest in the ground, and they prefer plain dirt.
Submit. Pollinators are a sign of a healthy garden. When bees are welcomed in your flower bed, they help create strong blooms--and sometimes even new types of blooms--by pollination. As these busy workers jump from bloom to bloom to sip on nectar, they'll take no heed of the gardener working beside them. 
Bees are attracted to tubular-shaped flowers that they can crawl into, or small, flat flowers that they can walk on. They like blooms with abundant nectar. To find plants that do not attract bees, look for those with the opposite bloom characteristics and avoid planting flowering fruit trees, poppies and roses. Bees help pollinate many types of plants, including garden plants like cucumbers, but for people who are allergic or do not want to attract bees to their yard, they can be a nuisance.
Bees love flowers. They collect both the nectar and pollen from flowers in order to produce honey and feed their young. As long as you have flowers in your garden, you will likely have bees. However, bees do prefer certain types of flowers, while other animal pollinators, such as butterflies and birds, prefer others. 
Bees are attracted to a variety of bright colors, but blue, yellow and purple flowers are the most attractive to bees. Avoid flowers with those bloom colors and opt for flowers with red blooms. Bees do not see red -- it appears black to them -- so red flowers do not attract bees. Choose from the vast variety of red flowers available to avoid bees. Bees help pollinate many types of plants, including garden plants like cucumbers, but for people who are allergic or do not want to attract bees to their yard, they can be a nuisance.