aghast at sth [+ behaviour, situation ] → atterre(atterré) e par, qch(accable) accablé e. Par qch beth was aghast at what she had → Just heard beth etait était atterree'atterrée par ce qu'elle., Venait juste d entendre beth etait'était accablee accablée par'ce. qu elle venait juste d entendre aghast at sth [+ behaviour, situation ] → atterre(atterré) e par, qch(accable) accablé e. par qch
How to pronounce aghast in British English. (English pronunciations of aghast from the Cambridge Advanced Learners Dictionary & Thesaurus and from the Cambridge Academic Content Dictionary, both sources © Cambridge University Press). 
LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. adjective. The definition of aghast is someone or something who has been surprised, awed or horrified. An example of someone who might feel aghast is a person who returns home to find his house has burned down. 1 Helga appeared aghast, then torn. 2  And ever, as the white moon shows her affrighted face from the steep gullies in the blackness overhead, aghast Jonah sees the rearing bowsprit pointing high upward, but soon beat downward again towards the tormented deep.
Full Definition of AGHAST. : struck with terror, amazement, or horror: shocked. See aghast defined for English-language learners. See aghast defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 
Sir Nigel, who had entered the room with a silvery-haired old lady upon his arm, stared aghast at this sudden outburst of candor. The White Company by Doyle, Sir Arthur Conan View in context. Fables by Aesop View in context. The Judge left the Court, looking deeply disgusted: But the Snark, though a little aghast, As the lawyer to whom the defense was entrusted, Went bellowing on to the last. The Hunting of the Snark by Carroll, Lewis
aghast /əˈgaest/ əˈgæst /brit/ əˈgɑːst. adjective. /aghast/ əˈgaest /əˈgæst/. brit. əˈgɑːst'adjective learner s DEFINITION. of aghast not used before [a noun; more aghast]. : most aghast shocked. — and + upset. Often at the news left. her aghast 
Thesaurus. The thesaurus of synonyms and related words is fully integrated into the dictionary. Click on the thesaurus category heading under the button in an entry to see the synonyms and related words for that meaning. Blog. A must for anyone with an interest in the changing face of language. The Macmillan Dictionary blog explores English as it is spoken around the world today. Definition and synonyms of aghast from the online English dictionary from Macmillan Publishers Limited.
aghast. [əˈgɑːst] adj → atterre(atterré), e(accable). accablé e aghast [+ at, sth ] → behaviour(situation) atterre atterré, e(par) qch accable. Accablé e par qch beth was aghast at what → She had just heard beth etait'était atterree atterrée par'ce., Qu elle venait juste d entendre'beth etait était accablee'accablée. par ce qu elle venait juste d entendre aghast at sth [+ behaviour, situation ] → atterre(atterré) e par, qch(accable) accablé e. par qch
The Hunting of the Snark by Carroll, Lewis View in context. Sir Nigel, who had entered the room with a silvery-haired old lady upon his arm, stared aghast at this sudden outburst of candor. aghast at sth [+ behaviour, situation ] → atterre(atterré) e par, qch(accable) accablé e. par qch