The burning of fossil fuels (coal, oil and natural gas) in industry, transport and the generation of electricity, releases carbon dioxide which is the main cause for global warming. Acid rain damages soil and trees, lakes and fish populations as well as corroding metal and buildings. They also cause air pollution, the haze that is common over big cities, causing asthma and breathing difficulties. So, yes, fossil fuels are bad for the environment.
Fossil fuels (coal, oil and natural gas) release carbon dioxide, the greenhouse gas largely responsible for causing global warming. They are also responsible for acid rain t … hrough their emissions of sulphur and nitrous dioxides. Acid rain damages soil and trees, lakes and fish populations as well as corroding metal and buildings. They also cause air pollution, the haze that is common over big cities, causing asthma and breathing difficulties. So, yes, fossil fuels are bad for the environment.
It causes pollution. Fossil fuels are bad for the environment because they create greenhouse gases which go up in to the atmosphere and magnify the suns heat which can cause ice caps to melt then that leads to the sea level rising which causes flooding and if too much ice melts animals in the Arctic could die. The burning of fossil fuels is bad because it causes carbon dioxide levels to rise in the atmosphere. This extra carbon dioxide adds to the enhanced greenhouse effect causing global warming. This is why burning fossil fuels is bad
Burning fossil fuels like coal, oil and natural gas damages the  environment because it releases a harmful gas, carbon dioxide,  which adds to the other greenhouse gases in … the atmosphere, traps  more of the sun's heat, and causes global warming which is driving  climate change. The burning of fossil fuels is bad because it causes carbon dioxide levels to rise in the atmosphere. This extra carbon dioxide adds to the enhanced greenhouse effect causing global warming. This is why burning fossil fuels is bad
Fossil fuels are bad for the environment because they create  greenhouse gases which go up in to the atmosphere and magnify the  suns heat which can cause ice caps to melt then that leads to the  sea level rising which causes flooding and if too much ice melts  animals in the Arctic could die. Acid rain damages soil and trees, lakes and fish populations as well as corroding metal and buildings. They also cause air pollution, the haze that is common over big cities, causing asthma and breathing difficulties. So, yes, fossil fuels are bad for the environment.
Burning fossil fuels creates pollution and pollution is bad for  the environment.  they produce harmful greenhouse gasses  Burning fossil fuels releases carbon dioxide e … missions that add  to the greenhouse effect. This is causing global warming and  climate change. Acid rain damages soil and trees, lakes and fish populations as well as corroding metal and buildings. They also cause air pollution, the haze that is common over big cities, causing asthma and breathing difficulties. So, yes, fossil fuels are bad for
Fossil fuels, including coal, oil and natural gas, are currently the world's primary energy source. Formed from organic material over the course of millions of years, fossil fuels have fueled U.S. and global economic development over the past century. Technologies such as Carbon Capture and Storage (CCS) may help reduce the greenhouse gas emissions generated by fossil fuels, and nuclear energy can be a zero-carbon alternative for electricity generation. But other, more sustainable solutions exist: energy efficiency and renewable energy.
The primary source of energy in the United States is currently fossil fuels. These include oil, coal, and natural gas, and they account for 85 percent of the total energy sources used in the country. In fact, the amount of carbon dioxide released into the atmosphere is now over 25 percent more than it was 150 years ago. Fossil fuels are also responsible for the increase in nitrous oxide and methane levels in the atmosphere.
Yet fossil fuels are finite resources and they can also irreparably harm the environment. According to the Environmental Protection Agency, the burning of fossil fuels was responsible for 79 percent of U.S. greenhouse gas emissions in 2010. These gases insulate the planet, and could lead to potentially catastrophic changes in the earth’s climate. Technologies such as Carbon Capture and Storage (CCS) may help reduce the greenhouse gas emissions generated by fossil fuels, and nuclear energy can be a zero-carbon alternative for electricity generation. But other, more sustainable solutions exist: energy efficiency and renewable energy.