Pictures of Foliated and Non-Foliated Rock Types. Amphibolite is a non-foliated metamorphic rock that forms through recrystallization under conditions of high viscosity and directed pressure. It is composed primarily of hornblende (amphibole) and plagioclase, usually with very little quartz. Non-foliated metamorphic rocks such as hornfels, marble, quartzite, and novaculite do not have a layered or banded appearance. Pictures and brief descriptions of some common types of metamorphic rocks are shown on this page. Hornfels is a fine-grained nonfoliated metamorphic rock with no specific composition
It is a contact metamorphic rock with variable composition and varying physical properties, usually forming as the result of contact metamorphism of limestones. The primary minerals present in lapis are lazurite, hauyine, diopside, calcite and pyrite. (A combination of lazurite and other minerals forming a rock). Lapis lazuli is not a mineral, but a rock consisting of as many as 15 different minerals.
Lazurite is famous for its gem form, Lapis Lazuli. Lapis Lazuli, casually called by its shortened name Lapis, is the gemstone form of Lazurite that is associated with white Calcite and sparkling Pyrite. The name Lazurite is derived from the term Lazaward, which means heaven in Arabic, alluding to its blue color
Lazurite is the essential ingredient of lapis lazuli and is the mineral that gives it the blue color. The best quality material contains less calcite and pyrite. Lazurite is a sodium, calcium, aluminosilicate mineral that contains sulfur: the color is due to a charge transfer between sulfur atoms. Lapis lazuli, is a contact metamorphic rock with variable composition and varying physical properties.
The result is the creation of metamorphic rock. Gemstones associated with metamorphic rock include beryl, jade, lapis lazuli, turquoise, spinel, ruby, sapphire and zircon. Rocks and minerals are in a constant state of change, which is referred to as the rock cycle. Igneous rock can change into sedimentary or metamorphic rock. 
Lapis lazuli, also known simply as lapis, is a blue metamorphic rock that has been used by people as a gemstone, sculpting material, and ornamental material for thousands of years. Unlike most other gem materials, lapis lazuli is not a mineral. Instead, it is a rock composed of multiple minerals. The blue color of lapis lazuli is mainly derived from the presence of lazurite, a blue silicate mineral of the sodalite group with a chemical composition of (Na,Ca) 8 (AlSiO 4) 6 (S,Cl,SO 4 ,OH) 2. Lapis lazuli forms near igneous intrusions where limestone or marble has been altered by contact metamorphism or hydrothermal metamorphism. In these rocks, lazurite replaces portions of the host rock and often preferentially develops within certain bands or layers.
Lapis lazuli is a mineral, and a gemstone. It is formed as a metamorphic rock of the limestone type. Lapis is famous for its beautiful blue colour: its name means stone of blue. Lapis Lazuli has been used for many things. Its has been made into beads and used in jewellery since Prehistoric times. Lapis lazuli is a metamorphic rock made from several minerals, but mainly Lazurite. Lazurite has been mined for over 6,000 years in Afghanistan. It is also mined at Lake Baikal in Siberia; at Mount Vesuvius in Italy; in Burma; Canada; and the United States.