Expect the procedure itself to last about 20-60 minutes, but the entire process from arrival to departure usually takes several hours and may last as long as five hours. After the colonoscopy: After the procedure, you will rest for about 30-60 minutes while the sedation wears off. Because of the medication you received during the procedure, you will be drowsy and should NOT drive, so make sure you have a ride home. You should not drive or work for the rest of the day. During the colonoscopy : You will likely be given sedation and anesthesia to ease any discomfort during the procedure, and most people do not remember very much (if anything) afterwards. The doctor will use a long flexible tube with a camera on the end to search for any concerning polyps that may represent cancer.
The prep begins at home the evening before the procedure. The morning of your colonoscopy you ll spend about three hours at the clinic or hospital. Then you ll return home to rest for the remainder of the day. You can usually return to your usual activities the next day. 
Recovery is with in an hour or so. Mostly from anesthesia if you recieve it during the proceedure. Some Docs do not give any. The proceedure last about 30 -45 minutes depending on whether polyps need to be removed. With Anesthesia, you won't remember a thing! Worst part is the prep period the day before. There are usually no after-effects from the procedure or from the colonoscopy, so patients usually feel fine after leaving the surgical center. Best yet, you won't remember a thing (as previously mentioned by Taffy).
1 There is colonoscopy (whole colon), sigmoidoscopy (rectum and last 2 feet of colon), proctoscopy (just the rectum), and anoscopy (just the anus). 2  For colorectal cancer screening, total colonoscopy is by far the best. 3  Its downside is the prep and the cost. 1 If you have a close relative with colorectal cancer or polyps, your risk is higher. 2  You should start colonoscopy earlier and do it more frequently, depending on how strong the family history is. 3  For example, the average risk of colorectal cancer in the United States is 6 percent.
1 You are right. 2  There is colonoscopy (whole colon), sigmoidoscopy (rectum and last 2 feet of colon), proctoscopy (just the rectum), and anoscopy (just the anus). 3  For colorectal cancer screening, total colonoscopy is by far the best. 4  Its downside is the prep and the cost. 1 If you have a close relative with colorectal cancer or polyps, your risk is higher. 2  You should start colonoscopy earlier and do it more frequently, depending on how strong the family history is. 3  For example, the average risk of colorectal cancer in the United States is 6 percent.
1 Perforation (puncture of the bowel): There is a risk approximately 1 in 5000 for colonoscopy screening but increases to 1 in 1000 if polyps are removed. 2  If this occurs, an operation will be necessary involving a stay in hospital for several days. 1 This usually lasts only a brief time. 2  Perforation (puncture of the bowel): There is a risk approximately 1 in 5000 for colonoscopy screening but increases to 1 in 1000 if polyps are removed. 3
A normal recovery after a colonoscopy is actually a comfortable time whereby the patient slowly awakens. He or she feels a sense of relief and calm (from the medication) and experiences little or no discomfort. Occasionally, the patient may feel a cramping sensation which resolves as air is expelled from the colon. There are usually no after-effects from the procedure or from the colonoscopy, so patients usually feel fine after leaving the surgical center. Best yet, you won't remember a thing (as previously mentioned by Taffy).
The procedure typically takes about 30 to 60 minutes to complete. Generally, the pain medicine and sedative you receive before the colonoscopy should limit the discomfort you may feel during the procedure. However, you may feel cramping. After the procedure. You will stay at the facility where you have the colonoscopy for up to two hours after the procedure while the effects of the sedative wear off. A friend or family member may then drive you home. You can expect to resume your normal activities the day after your colonoscopy
1 How long should I expect to be at the clinic for a colonoscopy? 2  You should expect to be at the clinic for about two hours from the time of your arrival. 3  Occasionally there may be delays because of other patients being treated but we make every attempt to minimize this. 1 This usually lasts only a brief time. 2  Perforation (puncture of the bowel): There is a risk approximately 1 in 5000 for colonoscopy screening but increases to 1 in 1000 if polyps are removed. 3  If this occurs, an operation will be necessary involving a stay in hospital for several days.