Making the world better, one answer at a time. An armadillo isn't a reptile, even though it has a shell. The scientific name, however, is Dasypodidan. The word Xenarthran reffers to armadillos, anteaters, sloths, and pangolins. A name used all around the world to classify a living organism. It is composed of a genus and species name. A sceintific name can also be considered for non living things, the … se are usually called scientific jargon, or very simply 'proper names for the things around you'. 4 people found this useful.
Armadillos are New World placental mammals with a leathery armour shell. Dasypodidae is the only surviving family in the order Cingulata, part of the superorder Xenarthra, along with the anteaters and sloths. The word armadillo means little armoured one in Spanish. 
If you can't find the armadillo you are looking for by common name or by scientific name, try the Armadillo Pictures page for help. The Pictures page does not contain all the images available, but it does have a few of the photos that can be found below. Armadillos: Biology, Ecology and Images. Biologists like to classify living organisms into logical, related groups. (We can't help it-it's how we were trained!) This site is no different, but I do recognize that the names of individual armadillo species are probably meaningless to many of my visitors.
Beautiful Armadillo. The beautiful armadillo (scientific name Dasypus bellus) was a larger cousin of the modern nine-banded armadillo (scientific name Dasypus novemcinctus). 
Nine-Banded Armadillo. Scientific Name: Dasypus novemcinctus. Description: Approximately 20 species of armadillo exist, but the nine-banded is the only one found in the United States. The term “armadillo” means “little armored one,” and refers to the presence of bony, armor-like plates covering their body. Despite their name, nine-banded armadillos can have 7 to 11 bands on their armor. There is a common misconception that nine-banded armadillos can roll up into spherical balls. In reality, only two species of armadillo (both three-banded) roll up completely. Size: Nine-banded armadillos are about 2.5 feet long from the nose to the tip of the tail and weigh an average of 12 pounds.
There are 21 living species of armadillo in 9 genera: Cabassous, Calyptophractus, Chaetophractus, Chlamyphorus, Dasypus, Euphractus, Priodontes, Tolypeutes, and Zaedyus. A r … epresentative species is the nine-banded armadillo, Dasypus novemcinctus. A name used all around the world to classify a living organism. It is composed of a genus and species name. A sceintific name can also be considered for non living things, the … se are usually called scientific jargon, or very simply 'proper names for the things around you'. 4 people found this useful.
Within the family Dasypodidae, there are twenty officially recognized species in nine genera. To see detailed information and photographs of a particular species, click the name of the species that interests you. You may also click the name of a genus to browse the information on the species included. Armadillos: Biology, Ecology and Images. Biologists like to classify living organisms into logical, related groups. (We can't help it-it's how we were trained!) This site is no different, but I do recognize that the names of individual armadillo species are probably meaningless to many of my visitors.
The nine-banded armadillo (Dasypus novemcinctus), or the nine-banded, long-nosed armadillo, is a medium-sized mammal found in North, Central, and South America, making it the most widespread of the armadillos. The nine-banded armadillo has been rapidly expanding its range both north and east within the United States, where it is the only regularly occurring species of armadillo. The armadillo crossed the Rio Grande from Mexico in the late 19th century, and was introduced in Florida at about the same time by humans.