Best Answer: aluminium is a metal because 1. it has the ability to donate 3 electrons & as per the definition of metals, metals are substances which donate valence electrons 2. it has lustre 3. it is malleable i.e. drawn into sheets & ductile i.e. elongated into wires 4. it is a solid at room temperature 5. Aluminium is a metal, because it's hard, form a positive ion, an electric and heat conductor ,have a high melting point and have a shiny silver coloured.
The reason why, in a few cases, aluminium is referred to as a metalloid, from the article: It has some properties that are unusual for a metal; taken together, these are sometimes used as a basis to classify aluminium as a metalloid. Its crystalline structure shows some evidence of directional bonding. Elements to the lower left of the line generally display increasing metallic behaviour; elements to the upper right display increasing nonmetallic behaviour. Aluminium is usually considered to be a metal, as described in the Wikipedia article Metalloids: Aluminium : Aluminium is ordinarily classified as a metal. It is lustrous, malleable and ductile, and has high electrical and thermal conductivity
Aluminum is the most common metal found within the earth’s crust (8 percent) but does not occur as a metal in its natural state. Aluminum ore (bauxite) must first be mined then chemically refined through the Bayer process to produce an intermediate product, aluminum oxide (alumina). 
Aluminum is pronounced as ah-LOO-men-em. History and Uses: Although aluminum is the most abundant metal in the earth's crust, it is never found free in nature. All of the earth's aluminum has combined with other elements to form compounds. Two of the most common compounds are alum, such as potassium aluminum sulfate (KAl(SO 4) 2 ·12H 2 O), and aluminum oxide (Al 2 O 3). About 8.2% of the earth's crust is composed of aluminum. Scientists suspected than an unknown metal existed in alum as early as 1787, but they did not have a way to extract it until 1825. 
this is always formed on the surface of the metal. Aluminum oxide is an ion, an ion consists of a metal and a non metal. in this case the metal is aluminium and the non metal is oxygen. so it is neither a metal or non metal but an ionic compound. firstly......aluminum is a metal by itself in nature.... aluminum is considered as a metal for the following reasons: 1 - aluminum is a solid at room temperature and has a relatively high density. 2- aluminum can be hammered into sheets and drawn into wires. most importantly, 3 - aluminum is a very good conductor of heat as well as electricity. All the above properties belong to metals; hence aluminum is considered as a metal
As looking at the aluminum surface of a plane or a sheet of aluminum foil might suggest, it is a metal. Aluminium (Aluminum) is a metal but all aluminium that is exposed to th … e air will form aluminum oxide (Al2O3). firstly......aluminum is a metal by itself in nature.... aluminum is considered as a metal for the following reasons: 1 - aluminum is a solid at room temperature and has a relatively high density. 2- aluminum can be hammered into sheets and drawn into wires. most importantly, 3 - aluminum is a very good conductor of heat as well as electricity. All the above properties belong to metals; hence aluminum is considered as a metal
Best Answer: aluminium is a metal, as it has a giant metallic structure which has a sea of mobile electrons(exclusive to metals). It can conduct electricity, nonmetals cannot, and metalloids does not have many of the physical properties of metals(malleable and ductile etc). Source(s): jo93sh98548 · 6 years ago. 
Aluminium (or aluminum; see different endings) is a chemical element in the boron group with symbol Al and atomic number 13. It is a silvery-white, soft, nonmagnetic, ductile metal. Aluminium is the third most abundant element (after oxygen and silicon) in the Earth 's crust, and the most abundant metal there. It makes up about 8% by mass of the crust, though it is less common in the mantle below. 