Making the world better, one answer at a time. I just finished looking up a slow cooker recipe for whole chicken-cook on high for 4-5 hours, or on low for 6-8 hours. Do not remove the lid for the first two hours to prevent heat loss. Add the greens to the slow cooker along with the remaining ingredients. Turn the slow cooker to low and cook 4-6 hours or until the greens are tender and are a gray-green color. Remove the salt pork before serving. If you're in a hurry, the greens may be cooked on high for 3-4 hours; stir every hour or so.
Place the cover on the slow cooker and cook on HIGH for 4 hours or on LOW for 6-8 hours. Carve and serve chicken or shred it for use in another chicken meal. Use the bones and drippings to make homemade chicken stock in the slow cooker. 1  Rinse the thawed chicken and pat dry. Roast a whole chicken in the slow cooker for tender, delicious cooked chicken. In my neck of the woods, whole chickens go as low as $0.57/pound. Yes, really. There’s generally a limit of three, but yes, the price is that low.
1 Put prepared chicken on top of the onions in the slow cooker, cover it, and turn it on to high. 2  There is no need to add any liquid. 3  Cook for 4 – 5 hours on high (for a 3 or 4 pound chicken) or until the chicken is falling off the bone. 4  Don't forget to make your homemade stock with the leftover bones! 1 Cook for 4 – 5 hours on high (for a 3 or 4 pound chicken) or until the chicken is falling off the bone. 2
1 In my slow cooker, a 4.5 lb. chicken took 6 hours to cook. 2  The best way to determine if the chicken is cooked is to insert an instant read thermometer into the thickest part of the breast meat; it should be 165 degrees when it's done. (Some soy sauce will run out of the chicken into the slow cooker, and some will remain inside chicken to flavor it from the inside.) Place chicken breast side down, cover, and cook on low for 5-6 hours until instant read thermometer inserted in thickest part of breast meat registers 165 degrees.
1 When ready to cook, put chopped onion in bottom of crock pot. 2  Add chicken. 3  No liquid is needed, the chicken will make its own juices. 4  Cook on low 4-8 hours. 5  Note: I highly recommend a pop-up timer in the chicken because some crock pots cook faster/slower than others (my crock pot cooks this recipe in 4-5 hours). 1 No liquid is needed, the chicken will make its own juices. 2  Cook on low 4-8 hours. 3
Cook for 6 hours, undisturbed. Remove the chicken from the slow cooker, and pour the accumulated juices into a 2-cup heatproof container. Skim the fat from the top and transfer the liquid to a small saucepan. Dissolve the cornstarch in a small bowl with 2 teaspoons of water and whisk to form a slurry.
4. Cover and cook. Place the cover on the slow cooker and turn it on to high for 4 hours or low for 6 to 8 hours. You do not need to add any liquid. Chickens today typically have some solution added, so they rarely need added liquid. At the end of the cooking time, the meat will be tender, practically falling off the bone. Roast a whole chicken in the slow cooker for tender, delicious cooked chicken. In my neck of the woods, whole chickens go as low as $0.57/pound. Yes, really. There’s generally a limit of three, but yes, the price is that low.
You can really add anything you want. Then, I put the lid on, turn the dial to “low,” and cook for 3 hours, which is how long it takes for a single layer of snug chicken breasts to reach 165 degrees F in my slow cooker. The particular slow cooker I own is this 4-Quart Slow Cooker that cost me $18 in April 2013 (it now costs $20).
The chicken is really tender and flavorful and much easier than roasting a chicken in the oven. I use a 3.5 to 4.5 pound chicken and it fits just fine in my slow cooker. I added the carrots and vegetables and the chicken rests nicely on them. Also, I added garlic and lemon. My favorite roast chicken recipe calls for garlic and lemon inside the chicken so I do the same when I make it in the crockpot. 1 Combine rub ingredients in a small bowl and set aside. 2  Prep the vegetables and place inside the slow cooker (I use a 7 quart oval one like this one. 3  Remove chicken from packaging and remove neck and pouch with organs. 4  Discard or reserve for later use in another recipe.