Histamine is a substance that is released from specialized cells called mast cells when they are activated, often as part of an allergic immune response. This test measures the amount of histamine in the blood or urine. Mast cells are large tissue cells found throughout the body. 
Histamine: A substance that plays a major role in many allergic reactions, dilating blood vessels and making the vessel walls abnormally permeable. Histamine is part of the body's natural allergic response to substances such as pollens. Antihistamines work by preventing the release of histamine from certain cells (mast cells) thereby blocking the allergic reaction.
Histamine is an organic nitrogenous compound involved in local immune responses as well as regulating physiological function in the gut and acting as a neurotransmitter. Histamine is involved in the inflammatory response and has a central role as a mediator of pruritus. Most histamine in the body is generated in granules in mast cells and in white blood cells called basophils and eosinophils. Mast cells are especially numerous at sites of potential injury — the nose, mouth, and feet, internal body surfaces, and blood vessels.
Histamine diagram, public domain, http://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Histamine.png. Histamine is a substance present in cells of the immune system. It is released when tissue is damaged and during an allergic reaction. Anaphylaxis, hay fever and hives are common reactions involving histamine. Histamine and Anaphylaxis. Anaphylaxis is a life-threatening condition in which exposure to an allergen triggers release of histamine into the circulation. This causes blood vessels to dilate all over the body while increased capillary permeability allows fluids to leak out into the tissue.
Sites of histamine release. 1  Much of the histamine in the body is produced by the granules in mast cells and basophils as part of a local immune response to the presence of invading bodies. 2  Another important site where histamine is stored and released is in the enterochromaffin-like (ECL) cells of the stomach. 
: The histamine reaction in relation to the immune response (in both allergic reactions and immune reactions) serves two main functions: 1. It causes what is called “vasodilation.” Vasodilation occurs when the muscular walls that surround blood vessels are relaxed, causing the interior of the blood vessel to widen. 2. When a neuron releases molecules of a chemical neurotransmitter, it passes from what is called the “presynaptic nerve terminal” or the end of the neuron, through the “synapse” or the gap between neurons, and is finally taken up by a “receptor” area on the receiving neuron.
Mast cells. Most histamine in the body is generated in granules in mast cells and in white blood cells called basophils and eosinophils. Mast cells are especially numerous at sites of potential injury — the nose, mouth, and feet, internal body surfaces, and blood vessels.
As previously mentioned, histamine is a chemical stored within our body. It is produced by cells known as mast cells. Histamine is a protein molecule with the chemical formula C5H9N3. It serves as an important part of our body's immune response. When we come into contact with an allergen, such as pollen or animal dander, histamine is released by the body to the site of contact. When the histamine arrives at the site of irritation, it causes several important effects. One is the dilating, or widening, of small blood vessels in that area. This is known as an inflammatory response, or swelling. Swelling increases the flow of blood to the area.
As part of an immune response to foreign pathogens, histamine is produced by basophils and by mast cells found in nearby connective tissues. Histamine increases the permeability of the capillaries to white blood cells and some proteins, to allow them to engage pathogens in the infected tissues. Most histamine in the body is generated in granules in mast cells and in white blood cells called basophils and eosinophils. Mast cells are especially numerous at sites of potential injury — the nose, mouth, and feet, internal body surfaces, and blood vessels.
Histamine is secreted by basophils and mast cells as part of a local immune response to the presence of invading bodies. The basophils and mast cells are found in nearby connective tissue. By Dr Ananya Mandal, MD. Histamine is an amine that is produced as part of a local immune response to cause inflammation.