a line, stria, or stripe. angioid s's red to black irregular bands in the ocular fundus running outward from the optic disk. primitive streak a faint white trace at the caudal end of the embryonic disk, formed by movement of cells at the onset of mesoderm formation, providing the first evidence of the embryonic axis.
At approximately day 21 they are completely fused, as seen in this animation (32k) and in a scanning electron micrograph. 3. Heart Tube. The newly formed heart tube bulges into the pericardial cavity and is attached to the dorsal wall by a fold of tissue, the dorsal mesoderm. This is a derivative of foregut splanchnoplueric mesoderm. These angiogenic cell clusters coalesce to form right and left endocardial tubes. Each tube is continuous cranially with a dorsal aorta, its outflow tract, and caudally with a vitteloumbilical vein, its inflow tract. The lateral and cranial folding of the embryo forces the tubes into the thoracic cavity.
While the cells from the primitive node proliferate and migrate to form a midline notochord, cells from the primitve streak migrate laterally and cranially between the epiblast and hypoblast to form the intra-embryonic mesoderm. In humans the embryo does not form a gastrula, but the changes leading to the formation of the trilaminar embryo occur and are known as gastrulation.
After the formation of the head fold (at 20 days) the cardiogenic mesoderm is shifted ventrally and comes to lie ventral to the primitive pharynx. 21 days. The primitive heart tube is divided into a number of primitive chambers separated by grooves. The truncus arteriosus divides into a pair of aortic arches. Preferential channels form arteries and veins. Day 17 - Blood islands form first in the extra-embryonic mesoderm. Day 18 - Blood islands form next in the intra-embryonic mesoderm. Day 19 - Blood islands form in the cardiogenic mesoderm and coalesce to form a pair of endothelial heart tubes. The endothelial heart tubes fuse to form a single primitive heart tube with a cranial (arterial) end and a caudal (venous) end
The primitive streak is a structure that forms in the blastula during the early stages of avian, reptilian and mammalian embryonic development. The presence of the primitive streak will establish bilateral symmetry, determine the site of gastrulation and initiate germ layer formation. The formation of the primitive streak in the blastocyst involves the coordinated movement and re-arrangement of cells in the epiblast. Even before the streak is visible, epiblast cells have started to move. Two counter-rotating flows of cells meet at the posterior end, where the streak forms.
Heart development refers to development of the human heart. This begins with the formation of two endocardial tubes which merge to form the tubular heart, also called the primitive heart tube, that loops and septates into the four chambers and paired arterial trunks that form the adult, human heart. The heart is the first functional organ in vertebrate embryos, and in the human, beats spontaneously by week 4 of development. The tubular heart quickly differentiates into the truncus arteriosus, bulbus cordis, primitive ventricle, primitive atrium, and the sinus venosus
The origins of the heart tube are clusters of angiogenic cells which are located in the cardiogenic plate. The cardiogenic plate, which is derived from splanchnoplueric mesoderm, is located cranial and lateral to the neural plate. These angiogenic cell clusters coalesce to form right and left endocardial tubes. Each tube is continuous cranially with a dorsal aorta, its outflow tract, and caudally with a vitteloumbilical vein, its inflow tract. The lateral and cranial folding of the embryo forces the tubes into the thoracic cavity.
The two tubes migrate together and fuse to form a single primitive heart tube, the tubular heart which quickly forms five distinct regions. From head to tail, these are the truncus arteriosus, bulbus cordis, primitive ventricle, primitive atrium, and the sinus venosus. The heart is the first functional organ in vertebrate embryos, and in the human, beats spontaneously by week 4 of development. The tubular heart quickly differentiates into