Brown fat cells or plurivacuolar cells are polygonal in shape. Unlike white fat cells, these cells have considerable cytoplasm, with lipid droplets scattered throughout. The nucleus is round, and, although eccentrically located, it is not in the periphery of the cell. In general, people with an excess of fat cells find it harder to lose weight and keep it off than the obese who simply have enlarged fat cells. Adipocytes, also known as lipocytes and fat cells, are the cells that primarily compose adipose tissue, specialized in storing energy as fat.
An adipocyte is basically a fat cell, a cell that has become specialized in the making and storage of fat. Adipose tissue contains adipocytes, used for cushioning, thermal insulation, lubrication (primarily in the pericardium) and energy storage. 
White fat cells or monovacuolar cells contain a large lipid droplet surrounded by a layer of cytoplasm. The nucleus is flattened and located on the periphery. A typical fat cell is 0.1mm in diameter with some being twice that size and others half that size. In general, people with an excess of fat cells find it harder to lose weight and keep it off than the obese who simply have enlarged fat cells. Adipocytes, also known as lipocytes and fat cells, are the cells that primarily compose adipose tissue, specialized in storing energy as fat.
Adipocytes are fat cells found in the human body. They can also be called lipocytes. One type of fat cell, the white fat cell, is important because it serves as a stockpile of energy. Brown fat cells can also store energy, but their more important function is their ability to create heat. The amount of fat, also referred to as lipids, stored in adipocytes is tightly regulated by the human body. There are two types of adipocytes present in humans, although in adults the amount of white adipose tissue greatly exceeds the brown adipose tissue. White fat functions to store lipids for future energy use.
Bright field image of adipocytes from the Cellometer Vision Cell Analyzer Adipocytes are the primary cells found in adipose (fat) tissue. Adipocytes store energy for the body in the form of triacylglycerol and play a critical role in lipid metabolism and energy regulation. Adipocytes have also been found to express a wide range of cytokines, chemokines, receptors, and cell adhesion molecules capable of inducing inflammation.
There are two major types of adipocytes in mammals: white adipocytes contain one large lipid droplet and are involved in fat storage, whereas brown adipocytes have many smaller lipid droplets and numerous mitochondria that generate energy, maintaining body temperature. Definition. Adipocytes are cells specialised in storing energy as fat, mainly triglycerides, in organelles called lipid droplets.
Cells in the body that store FATS, usually in the form of TRIGLYCERIDES. WHITE ADIPOCYTES are the predominant type and found mostly in the abdominal cavity and subcutaneous tissue. BROWN ADIPOCYTES are thermogenic cells that can be found in newborns of some species and hibernating mammals.
An adipocyte is a fat cell. Adipocytes are found in deposits of fatty tissue all over the body. These specialized cells also appear to be capable of secreting hormones and other chemicals which may play a role in appetite regulation and other aspects of the metabolism. There are two kinds of adipocytes: white adipocytes and brown adipocytes. White fat cells are involved in the storage of fat, with much of the cell being filled with a large droplet of oil, and the nucleus being crushed against the side of the cell wall.