Any more than that, and the island will overwhelm the kitchen and make it difficult to maneuver. For example, the kitchen shown in the accompanying image is 10 feet by 13 feet (130 square feet). Its island is 4 feet by 7 feet (28 square feet). So, about 10% of the kitchen is used for the island.
Size of Your Kitchen. A kitchen should be at least 8 feet deep and 12 feet long to comfortably fit an island. At least 100 square feet of kitchen floor area is needed in order for the kitchen island to be fully functional.
Size and Placement. Kitchen islands suck space. At minimum, an island should be 4 feet long and a little more than 2 feet deep, but it must also have room for people to move and work around it. Unless your kitchen is at least 8 feet deep and more than 12 feet long, don't even think about an island.
However, even if you have the clearance space for a large island, an island that is too large becomes difficult to use. “Bigger is not always better,” says kitchen designer Patricia Hartford of Patricia Hartford Kitchen LLC in Sherwood, Ore., and Rockaway Beach, Ore., who loves to rework kitchens in period homes.
At minimum, an island should be 4 feet long and a little more than 2 feet deep, but it must also have room for people to move and work around it. Specialists recommend that unless the kitchen is at least 8 feet deep and more than 12 feet long, one shouldn’t even consider an island.
Many islands are about 2 or 3 feet but if you need more counter space, seating space, etc., you can go a little larger. Approximately 7 feet is sometimes necessary if you want a cooktop or sink in the island. It’s recommended that your island should be at least 2 feet deep.
Kitchen islands suck space. At minimum, an island should be 4 feet long and a little more than 2 feet deep, but it must also have room for people to move and work around it. Unless your kitchen is at least 8 feet deep and more than 12 feet long, don't even think about an island.
If you have the space for an island, and it will improve the flow of your kitchen, you can design an island to complement any style of home. While most people think of the center island as a recent development, it’s likely a contemporary adaptation of the large worktables that were once common in kitchens.