Biomass can be burned to produce electricity, or be converted to a gas and used for fuel. Geothermal energy uses hot water or steam from deep beneath the earth’s surface to produce electricity. Hydroelectric power plants use the energy of falling water to spin generator turbines. Solar energy can also be used to produce electricity. Solar cells change the radiant energy of the sun into electrical energy. Some calculators and portable radios are powered by solar cells. Many power plants use fossil fuels. The fossil fuel is burned to produce heat, which is used to make steam. The steam is then used to turn the blades of a turbine. Some power plants run on nuclear power, which is another nonrenewable resource.
Electricity can be produced using several kinds of renewable resources. Wind energy can produce electricity in regions where steady winds blow. Giant wind turbines capture the wind’s energy and use it to power generators. Biomass is material that is formed from living organisms, such as wood or agricultural wastes. Many power plants use fossil fuels. The fossil fuel is burned to produce heat, which is used to make steam. The steam is then used to turn the blades of a turbine. Some power plants run on nuclear power, which is another nonrenewable resource.
Fossil Fuels (Coal, Oil and Natural Gas). When most people talk about the different sources of energy they list natural gas, coal and oil as the options – these are all considered to be just one source of energy from fossil fuels. Fossil fuels provide the power for most of the world, primarily using coal and oil. It isn’t easy to determine which of these different sources of energy is best to use. All of them have their good and bad points. While advocates of each power type tout theirs as the best, the truth is that they are all flawed.
Most of the energy we use comes from fossil fuels, such as coal, natural gas and petroleum. Uranium is another nonrenewable source, but it is not a fossil fuel. Uranium is converted to a fuel and used in nuclear power plants. Once these natural resources are used up, they are gone forever. Renewable sources of energy can be used over and over again. Renewable resources include solar energy, wind, geothermal energy, biomass and hydropower. They generate much less pollution, both in gathering and production, than nonrenewable sources.
1 sources of energy-energy, sources of energy, sources of, origins of the power used for transportation, for heat and 2  ... phosphorescence-phosphorescence phosphorescence, luminescence produced by certain substances after absorbing 3  ... ENERGY-Scientists define energy as the ability to do work. Renewable sources of energy can be used over and over again. Renewable resources include solar energy, wind, geothermal energy, biomass and hydropower. They generate much less pollution, both in gathering and production, than nonrenewable sources.
Types of Energy. An early source of energy, or prime mover, used by humans was animal power, i.e., the energy obtained from domesticated animals. Later, as civilization developed, wind power was harnessed to drive ships and turn windmills, and streams and rivers were diverted to turn water wheels (see water power). The development of nuclear energy made available another source of energy. The heat of a nuclear reactor can be used to produce steam, which then can be directed through a turbine to drive an electric generator, the propellers of a large ship, or some other machine.
10. When most people talk about the different sources of energy they list natural gas, coal and oil as the options – these are all considered to be just one source of energy from fossil fuels. Fossil fuels provide the power for most of the world, primarily using coal and oil. It isn’t easy to determine which of these different sources of energy is best to use. All of them have their good and bad points. While advocates of each power type tout theirs as the best, the truth is that they are all flawed.
Types of Energy Sources. There are two types of energy sources, Renewable and Non-Renewable sources. Renewable energy sources are sources that can be replenished or which are available naturally in excess. Non-Renewable energy sources are limited in their availability. 
The Sun. Most of the energy we capture for use on Earth originates in the nuclear reactions powering our Sun. Coal, oil, natural gas, biomass, and even the wind and hydropower we harness to generate electricity, originally derive their energy content from the Sun. Learn how our local star is the ultimate energy source. 7% of our total energy use comes from renewable energy sources, such as wind, solar, and hydropower. Renewable energy sources lessen our dependence on foreign energy and do not emit greenhouse gases. Experts predict that over the next two decades, renewable energy will provide a growing portion of U.S. overall energy.
Learning about the different sources of energy. The difference between renewable and non-renewable energy sources. Learn ways to conserve energy right at home, and make a difference! Recommended for grades: 4 - 6. 