To report gas leaks or other gas emergencies call the emergency number on your gas bill for assistance at any time. In case of fire call 000 immediately. If it is safe to do so: 1  Try to extinguish flames using a fire blanket or an appropriate extinguisher. 2  Turn off the gas at the gas meter or cylinder. Never ignore your senses. If you smell gas take the following precautions: 1  Turn off the gas at the meter (natural gas users) or at the tank or cylinder (LP gas users) but only if safe to do so. 2  Extinguish all flames and do not smoke or strike matches. 3  Do not operate electrical switches or devices
What NOT to do if you suspect a gas leak: 1  Do not try to turn natural gas valves on or off. 2  Do not turn any electric switch on or off; this could cause a spark and ignite the gas. 3  Do not use your telephone, cell phone, garage door opener or flashlight. 4  Do not smoke, use a lighter or strike a match. 
If you smell gas or think that you may have a gas leak somewhere then you should call Transco Gas Emergencies line straight away. Open your windows and doors to let air in, make sure all gas appliances are turned off and turn the gas off at the mains if possible. 
1 Do not do anything that could cause a spark and ignite the gas 2  : Do not use electrical devices, such as light switches, telephones, or garage door openers. 3  Do not use an open flame, matches or lighters. 4  Do not start vehicles parked in the area. 1 Do not try to shut off any natural gas valves. 2  From a safe location, call Consumers Energy at 1-800-477-5050. 3  We will respond promptly at no charge, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. 4  Do not re-enter the building or return to the area until a Consumers Energy employee says it’s safe.
Please call us immediately if you think you may have a natural gas leak or emergency. We will send a technician to investigate the source of the smell at no cost to you. 1  24-Hour Natural Gas Emergencies: 866-556-6002. 2  Natural Gas Leaks and Fires. 3  Carbon Monoxide Poisoning. 
1 Do not try to locate the source of the leak. 2  Do not do anything that could cause a spark and ignite the gas 3  : Do not use electrical devices, such as light switches, telephones, or garage door openers. 4  Do not use an open flame, matches or lighters. 1 Do not try to shut off any natural gas valves. 2  From a safe location, call Consumers Energy at 1-800-477-5050. 3  We will respond promptly at no charge, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. 4  Do not re-enter the building or return to the area until a Consumers Energy employee says it’s safe.
Smell Gas? To report a gas or carbon monoxide emergency, or if a pipeline is struck (even if no gas leak has occurred) call the National Gas Emergency Service 24 hours a day on 0800 111 999 (calls are recorded and may be monitored). More on gas emergencies.
1. Turn OFF all appliances and pilot lights. 2. Turn OFF supply at the gas meter. 3. Open all doors and windows for ventilation. 4. Contact your licensed gasfitter to repair the escape and relight appliances. Remember. 1  Do not look for a gas leak with a naked flame or other ignition source. 2  Do not operate electrical equipment in the vicinity of a gas leak. You are responsible for any costs associated with the gas fitters work. In the event of a gas leak on your gas meter outlet, your gas appliance, the pipe work form the gas meter to the appliance or any flues or ducts, you should contact a licensed gas fitter and arrange for repair.
Leave the area immediately and go to a safe location. 1  Do not try to locate the source of the leak. 2  Do not do anything that could cause a spark and ignite the gas 3  : Do not use electrical devices, such as light switches, telephones, or garage door openers. 4  Do not use an open flame, matches or lighters. 1 Do not try to shut off any natural gas valves. 2  From a safe location, call Consumers Energy at 1-800-477-5050. 3  We will respond promptly at no charge, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. 4  Do not re-enter the building or return to the area until a Consumers Energy employee says it’s safe.