Tweet. 1) Site of the Holy Temple The Western Wall is a surviving remnant of the Temple Mount in Jerusalem, which was destroyed by the Romans in 70 CE. The Temple was the center of the spiritual world, the main conduit for the flow of Godliness
The wailing wall is a popular term for what is more formally called the Western Wall -- in Hebrew, ha-Kotel ha-Ma'aravi, or the Kotel (the Wall) for short. It's an outer wal … l that remains from the second Holy Temple of the Jews, destroyed by the Romans in 70 CE. The Wall that is holy for the Jews is the western-side retaining wall that supports the Temple Mount. This wa … ll is called the Western Wall and its significance to Jews is discussed below. Answer 1 Jerusalem, and the Western Wall within it, is the the center of Judaism.
Question: What is the Wailing Wall?. Answer: The Wailing Wall, also known as the Western Wall, is a 187-foot-high section of the ancient wall of Herod s Temple, the second temple built on that spot. The Wailing Wall is on the western side of the Temple Mount in the Old City of Jerusalem. Herod the Great constructed the oldest layers of the wall between 20 B.C and 19 B.C. as the second Jewish temple was being built.
The Wailing Wall or Western Wall is in Jerusalem and is believed by many people to be the remains of one wall of a great Jewish temple or the wall surrounding the temple's courtyard. It is a stone wall that extends about 62 feet (18.9 m) above the ground. Someone posted earlier that the Western Wall (same as Wailing Wall, just preferred by much of the modern Jewish community) is not really part of the Temple [anon88378]. I want to clear up the misconceptions he or she put out there in this claim.
There is no such thing as a wailing wall. This is a misnomer imposed by non-Jewish people who misunderstood the dinstinctive style of Jewish prayer, and thought it was wailing … . Jews go to the Western Wall to pray, commune with God, and to see their ancient roots. … You are most likely referring to the Western Wall in Jerusalem. The Western Wall was built as part of the expansion of the 2nd Jewish Temple, approximate 20 BCE. It is a retaining wall of the Temple mount that was built by King Herod. The reason that it is called the Western Wall is that it is the retaining wall on the western side of the esplanade
The term Western Wall and its variations is mostly used in a narrow sense for the section traditionally used by Jews for prayer, and it has also been called the Wailing Wall, referring to the practice of Jews weeping at the site over the Destruction of the Temples. Early Jewish texts referred to a western wall of the Temple, but there is doubt whether the texts were referring to the outer, retaining wall called today the Western Wall, or to the western wall of the actual Temple.
There is no such thing as a wailing wall. This is a misnomer imposed by non-Jewish people who misunderstood the distinctive style of Jewish prayer, and thought it was wailing. … You are most likely referring to the Western Wall in Jerusalem. The Western Wall was built as part of the expansion of the 2nd Jewish Temple, approximate 20 BCE. It is a retaining wall of the Temple mount that was built by King Herod. The reason that it is called the Western Wall is that it is the retaining wall on the western side of the esplanade
The wailing wall is a popular term for what is more formally called the Western Wall -- in Hebrew, ha-Kotel ha-Ma'aravi, or the Kotel (the Wall) for short. … You are most likely referring to the Western Wall in Jerusalem. The Western Wall was built as part of the expansion of the 2nd Jewish Temple, approximate 20 BCE. It is a retaining wall of the Temple mount that was built by King Herod. The reason that it is called the Western Wall is that it is the retaining wall on the western side of the esplanade