About. Shots Fired is a catchphrase used to indicate someone has insulted someone in an effectively cutting way, and implies the insulted party will most likely engage with the insulter. “Shots fired” was originally used as a police phrase to indicate gun violence had broken out. The phrase was first added to Urban Dictionary on September 7th, 2009 by user He Who Is Awesome. It is defined as, “When you blatantly diss or call out somebody you have a disagreement or problem with.”
1. Leave the area if you can. If you are in a situation where other people are shooting each other or someone is shooting at people that aren't you, your main goal should be to get as far away as possible. If you see that you can reasonably get away, do that as soon as you hear shots. 1 If he wants you to quack like a duck, do it! 2  Do whatever he demands, and wait for your time to escape or be rescued. 3  There is no point in dying because of pride. 4  If your assailant is using a revolver at point blank range, remember that the cylinder must rotate before the shot will fire.
The worst case scenario has happened and you have had to use your firearm in self defence and have shot someone. Now what do you do? Answers to this very hard question from Attorney Joshua Prince. http://www.princelaw.com. 
Flaming Gorilla Titties recipe. Add the kahlua and then add bacardi 151 rum to the shot glass. Place a small sipping straw in the mixture and then light on fire. The straw is so you do not burn your eyebrows off. Once lit suck the shot through the straw till empty. Tastes like chocolate milk.
You have NOT been trained nor instructed to fire “warning shots.” You want to “Stop the Threat” and the attack and take appropriate action until the danger is gone. I sincerely do not intend nor want to “kill” anyone. If the attacker happens to die as a result of their actions, it is chance, and not the intent. As a felony conviction, it provides for up to 3 years in prison and a maximum of $10,000 fine. It is also a felony in New Hampshire, Tennessee, and several other states to fire a warning shot with similar penalties, if you are not justified.
Call for help from a second story window. If you are trapped in your second story room in the event of a fire, do what you can to get yourself to an area where people will be able to hear you or see you. You can take a sheet or something else-white preferably-and hang it out the window to signify that you need help when the first responders get there. Though you may not think you'll ever fall victim to a house fire, it's better to be prepared and know what to do to avoid panicking if it happens to you. If a fire starts in your home, your first priority should be to get yourself and your family members out as quickly as possible.
Shots Fired. When you make fun of someone and make a joke about them. After you make a really good comeback it is customary for someone to yell SHOTS FIRED. This is Aly's saying and Jack can't use it! Boy: You look like shit!
If you fire a warning shot, you are removing your POI from your Target and may not get a second chance to reacquire. Warning shots are BS, if you need to pull a weapon out it is because you have already decided you need to use deadly force. As a felony conviction, it provides for up to 3 years in prison and a maximum of $10,000 fine. It is also a felony in New Hampshire, Tennessee, and several other states to fire a warning shot with similar penalties, if you are not justified.