Fort Lauderdale Weather in August. Very similar to July, Fort Lauderdale weather in August is an interesting mix of intense heat, fleeting afternoon thunderstorms, beautifully warm seas and crystal clear blue skies. Hotels are chock full of tourists and the bars and cafes along the beach are filled to the brim with happy vacationing patrons. Even at dinner time the thermometer is often well above 80 degrees so if you're coming for a visit in August pack light both in the number of items you bring (because you'll be in your bathing suit most of the time) and the type of clothing you pack.
Throughout August, the most common forms of precipitation are thunderstorms, moderate rain, and light rain. Thunderstorms are the most severe precipitation observed during 74% of those days with precipitation. They are most likely around August 7, when it is observed during 47% of all days. Sun. Over the course of August, the length of the day is gradually decreasing. The shortest day of the month is August 31 with 12:40 hours of daylight; the longest day is August 1 with 13:19 hours of daylight.
1 The average highs during the summer are about 90 degrees with lows bottoming out at about 72. 2  July is the hottest month and August is the rainiest, with an average of about 9 inches of rain. 3  Humidity can be quite high as well, making summer a great time to cool off at the beach or the local swimming pool. 1 The threat of hurricanes might continue well into late October and early November as well. 2  However, during those later months of fall, humidity tends to drop quite a bit as do temperatures. 3  Humidity is now in the 60 to 70 percent range and temperatures average about 70 as well.
August is hot and humid with average daily temperatures in the 90s. Even at dinner time the thermometer is often well above 80 degrees so if you're coming for a visit in August pack light both in the number of items you bring (because you'll be in your bathing suit most of the time) and the type of clothing you pack.
Fort Lauderdale Weather in September. We've never actually been down here in September but our neighbors and friends tell us that Fort Lauderdale weather in September is very similar to August but with slightly less heat and humidity. From what we are told, you can expect it to still be pretty hot, sticky, and humid with ocean waters warmer than ever.
With average temperatures running between the upper 70s and upper 80s Fort Lauderdale weather in September is ideal for a quick Labor Day Weekend getaway. The ocean temperature is supposed to be perfectly warm yet refreshing and the summer swelter has eased enough to hit the links. We may give it a try next year. We've never actually been down here in September but our neighbors and friends tell us that Fort Lauderdale weather in September is very similar to August but with slightly less heat and humidity. From what we are told, you can expect it to still be pretty hot, sticky, and humid with ocean waters warmer than ever.
The crystal clear calm water makes it easy to spot all sorts of fascinating things as the fish and other creatures make their way closer to shore. Fort Lauderdale weather in August brings summer to a close with a bang and warm you up nicely for the winter ahead. Return from Fort Lauderdale Weather in August to...Ft. Even at dinner time the thermometer is often well above 80 degrees so if you're coming for a visit in August pack light both in the number of items you bring (because you'll be in your bathing suit most of the time) and the type of clothing you pack.
Related Guides: Fort Lauderdale enjoys a moderate climate with pleasant ocean breezes. Weather here is typical of the tropical climate in South Florida, with an average year-round temperature of 24°C / 76°F, and over 3,000 hours of sunny weather each year. 
Location. This report describes the typical weather at the Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport (Fort Lauderdale/Hollywood, Florida, United States) weather station over the course of an average August. It is based on the historical records from 1974 to 2012. Earlier records are either unavailable or unreliable. Sun. Over the course of August, the length of the day is gradually decreasing. The shortest day of the month is August 31 with 12:40 hours of daylight; the longest day is August 1 with 13:19 hours of daylight.