Cost of Assisted Living in Texas. According to the 2012 A Place for Mom Senior Living Costs Survey, the median monthly cost to live in an assisted living one bedroom apartment in Texas is $3,189. Best Places to Retire in Texas 2012. San Antonio Texas: 263 days of sunshine per year. Attractive city with a low cost of living. 
The type of care provided in as Texas assisted living facility varies depending on the type of facility. Typically, residents can get assistance with ADL's, medication assistance, and occasional nursing care according to the staff's licensing and the assisted living facility's policies. Texas is also less expensive compared to the national average. This cost is the base cost for a one-bedroom assisted living unit in Texas. Additional fees beyond the base rate may apply.
Cost of Texas Assisted Living Facilities. According to the 2015 Genworth Financial cost of care survey, the average cost of assisted living in Texas is $3,545 per month. The monthly base rate for Texas assisted living is typically higher when compared to neighboring states. Texas is also less expensive compared to the national average. This cost is the base cost for a one-bedroom assisted living unit in Texas. Additional fees beyond the base rate may apply.
The average cost of assisted living in Texas in 2015 is $3,545 / month. The areas of Texas with the most expensive assisted living include Amarillo, Austin, Dallas-Ft Worth and Midland where the monthly cost averages between $4,000 - $4,500.
According to the 2015 Genworth Financial cost of care survey, the average cost of assisted living in Texas is $3,545 per month. Texas is also less expensive compared to the national average. This cost is the base cost for a one-bedroom assisted living unit in Texas. Additional fees beyond the base rate may apply.
The most affordable assisted living in the state can be found in Corpus Christi, El Paso, Laredo and Texarkana where it ranges from $2,000 - $2,500 / month. Memory Care, also referred to as Alzheimer's residential care adds as much as $1,200 to the monthly cost of assisted living. Finding a Texas assisted living facility that is more affordable is attainable in areas like El Paso, Laredo, and Corpus Christi. Since baby boomers with aging parents may find it difficult to care for their own family, work, and assist their elderly parents, paying for assisted living ensures individuals that their loved ones are being taken care of on a continuing basis. The average cost of assisted living in Texas in 2015 is $3,545 / month. The areas of Texas with the most expensive assisted living include Amarillo, Austin, Dallas-Ft Worth and Midland where the monthly cost averages between $4,000 - $4,500
Independent living costs can vary by retirement community, based on the size of the apartment, geographical location of the community and the services needed at the community. According to Genworth.com, the average cost of a one-bedroom, independent living or retirement community in the U.S. in 2012 was $2,750 a month. Often times there is a basic rate that covers all independent living services, with an additional fee for special services. 
The average cost of Independent Living in Texas is $2,225. Independent Living costs range from $700 to $4,745 depending on location and other factors. 
Assisted Living Costs by State. The Genworth 2015 Cost of Care Survey is the most comprehensive study of its kind. Genworth Financial surveyed approximatey 15% of assisted living communities. The monthly cost is for a one-bedroom unit in an assisted living facility. 