Hello! I have some questions about what it's like to attend NA meetings for support. I went to several AA meetings in the past with a friend who is a recovering alcoholic and wonder if it's any different. What would it be like for a 45 yr. old single woman to attend by herself? I have been to meetings all over the country. NA meetings run the same as AA but the support you get is different. A pill addiction is not the same as alcohol. You are more apt to get support for this and find other people recovering from addicion to perscription meds at NA meetings then AA.
Normally an hour-Most AA meetings are an hour too. When the meeting is a speaker meeting, they ususally last an hour and a half. My main problem wasn't alcohol. I always liked the AA meetings much more than the NA meetings. AA meetings include just about everything-because most alcoholics have used hard drugs in the past
Another way to improve efficiency is by limiting meetings to 22 minutes. And if you're just an attendee, we've also talked about how you can not suck at meetings, make them less boring, and even why you should decline them whenever possible. So, tell us: Image by Yuri Arcurs (Shutterstock) . 
What happens at an NA Meeting. If you’re new to NA or planning to go to a Narcotics Anonymous meeting for the first time, it might be nice to know a little bit about what happens in our meetings. The information here is meant to give you an understanding of what we do when we come together to share recovery. If you are not an addict, look for an open meeting, which welcomes non-addicts. If you’re an addict or think you might have a drug problem, we suggest a meeting every day for at least 90 days to get to know NA members and our program.....
one hour. If you can not make that meeting-go to AA..there is one every day in every city.... call any AA listed and a sponsor will help you to the right location. Trust me 21 days of AA is just as helpful as any other specialized group.
Most meetings last one hour or 90 minutes. At the end of the meeting, the group members stand, join hands, and recite the Lord’s Prayer or the Serenity Prayer, for those who care to join. With slight variations, this basic meeting format is the same throughout the world, varying only in language. 
It depends upon the kind of meet and how many competitors there are and the process of judging. A private club gymnastics meet is going to last a lot longer because there are … going to be a lot of kids competing in the meet. Those meets generally last around 4 hours.
Narcotics Anonymous is fundamentally made up of NA Groups. An NA Group is a number of NA members who meet regularly; usually at the same time and place each week. Some Groups have more frequent meetings but are considered to be part of a single Group. 
Almost as important as the meeting itself is coming early and staying late. You get to meet and. the people this way, and the ones that do come early and/or stay late usually have a pretty good program. It doesn't take long-maybe 20 minutes either side of the meeting-but to me its worth it. After all I sure put my time in at the bar! The least I could do is put similar effort into AA