Jasmine is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 7 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Jas-mine. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 100 in baby name popularity for girls with 2988 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Jasmine Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Jasmine has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Jasmine to other names.
Jasmine is a feminine given name. It refers to the scented flowering plant, jasmine. It is originated from Persian یاسمین or یاسمن, which means the Yas flower. The name has been popular in a number of countries in recent years. In the United States, it first entered the top 1,000 list of most popular names in 1973
Jasmine is a form of the name Yasmin. Variants of the name Jasmine include Chazmon, Jaslynn, Jasmeen, Jasmen, Jasmin, Jasmina, Jasmyn, Jasmyne, Jassmyn, Jazma, Jazmaine, Jazman, Jazmen, Jazmin, Jazmina, Jazmine, Jazmyn, Jazmyne, Jazmynn, Jazzmen, Jazzmine, Jazzmyn, Jessamina, Jessamine, Jessamyn. View the Jasmine Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Jasmine has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Jasmine to other names.
What does Jasmin mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Jasmin is of Persian origin. The meaning of Jasmin is jasmine flower, a climbing plant with fragrant flowers. 
See also the related forms, the name Jasmarie and the Italian Gelsomino. Jasmine is popular as a baby girl name. The name increased in popularity from the 1970s up to the 1990s; prior to that, it was of only infrequent use. At the height of its usage in 1993, 0.612% of baby girls were named Jasmine. It was #23 in rank then. The baby name has seen a drop in popularity since then. It is pronounced JH AE ZMihN †. Jasmine is of Old Persian origin. It is used mainly in English and French. An older form of the name is Jasamin (Old Persian). The first name is derived from the name of the fragrant flower which is used to make perfume. The flower name is itself derived via Old French from the Persian element yasmi
Jasmine. Jasmine /jas-mine/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced JAZ-min, jaz-MEEN. It is of Old French and Persian origin, and the meaning of Jasmine is jasmine. Refers to the climbing plant with delicate, fragrant flowers, which derives from Yasmin. The name was made popular by character Princess Jasmine in the film Aladdin (1990). The name is popular among Hispanic and African American families. See also Jazzlyn. 
Jasmine (taxonomic name Jasminum /ˈjaesmɨnəm/) ˈjæsmɨnəm is a genus of shrubs and vines in the olive (Family). Oleaceae it contains around 200 species native to tropical and warm temperate regions of The, Eurasia australasia And. oceania Jasmine (taxonomic name Jasminum /ˈjaesmɨnəm/) ˈjæsmɨnəm is a genus of shrubs and vines in the olive (Family). oleaceae
Persian Meaning: The name Jasmine is a Persian baby name. In Persian the meaning of the name Jasmine is: From the name of the flower, jasmine. American Meaning: The name Jasmine is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Jasmine is: From the name of the flower, jasmine. SoulUrge Number: 6. Expression Number: 8.