Report Abuse. Priests have the authority from God after they have been ordained. Priests do not absolve you from your sins,God does. The Priest is a mediator between God and the person who is confessing their sins. The Catholic Church was the first universal Church founded by God .All other denominations came later. I am absolutely amazed at some of the answers in this post. 
No, the priest doesn't forgive sins, only God can do that. The whole point of the confession in Catholicism is that the people have to confess their sins to the priest and the … priest tells them what to do to be forgiven but ultimately God does the forgiving. That's the Catholic perspective. If you withhold this information from the priest, then the entire confession is invalid AND you have committed a few additional sins including sacrilege. 1  Physical attack on the Pope; 2  Blasphemy of the Holy Spirit; 3  Sins against chastity when the priest hearing the confession was himself a participant.
Re: Are there any sins a priest will not forgive in confession? If a priest commits adultery, he cannot validly absolve his partner in sin, except in danger of death. Canon 977 The absolution of a partner in a sin against the sixth commandment of the Decalogue is invalid, except in danger of death. Re: Are there any sins a priest will not forgive in confession? Someone correct me if I'm wrong, but I believe that if a priest breaks the seal of confessional he is automatically excommunicated and is only can be reconciled to the Church by the Pope.
Re: Are there any sins a priest will not forgive in confession? A priest cannot break the seal of confession for any circumstance. A good priest will advise the penitent to go to the proper authorities to report themselves and pay for the legal part of that sin. Re: Are there any sins a priest will not forgive in confession? Someone correct me if I'm wrong, but I believe that if a priest breaks the seal of confessional he is automatically excommunicated and is only can be reconciled to the Church by the Pope.
Only God forgives sins. When a person turns to God with a contrite heart and asks for forgiveness, God forgives them. Jesus Christ gave power to the Church in that a priest can forgive sins, and reconcile a person to the Church. However, a person should never wait to get to confession before turning to God and asking for forgiveness. Ask God for forgiveness and then get to Confession as soon as you can. Click to expand... Andres88 said: ↑. Guys, on Saturday I heard a priest saying that there are some sins that priests can't absolve, and he mentioned abortion among them.
A. Any priest can absolve a person in danger of death from reserved sins without the permission of the bishop, because at the hour of death the Church removes these restrictions in order to save, if possible, the soul of the. dying. Absolution from these sins can be obtained only from the bishop, and sometimes only from the Pope, or by his special permission. Persons having a reserved sin to confess cannot be absolved from any of their sins till the priest receives faculties or authority to absolve the reserved sin also. Q. 731.
**********. Let me clear up at least one concern. You can confess the sin of abortion to and receive absolution from any priest. The 1983 code of canon law no longer classifies it as a reserved sin, that is, one only the bishop can absolve. Part of the reason is that it has unfortunately become so common. 
JOHN 20:23. Roman priests say, I absolve you from your sins in the name of the Father, the Son and the Holy Spirit.. The Church teaches that to say, I forgive you your sins in the name of the Father, the Son and the Holy Spirit is illicit. This is not just because it is changing the words. The Roman Catholic Church is notorious for its claim that its priests can forgive sins as if they were God. Catholics have to confess their sins to the priest. We read in The Faith of Our Fathers page 398 that this is a power. Priests have the power to forgive sins.
CATHOLIC: Yes, that's what the formula says, but it says that because the priest is acting in the place of Christ. A priest's authority to convey forgiveness does not come from himself. It comes from Christ. By the power of the Holy Spirit, the priest stands in the place of Christ to declare the sinner forgiven. 