1 Medium Rare - 4 minutes on each side. 2  Medium - 4½ minutes on each side. 3  Medium Well - 5 minutes on each side. 4  Well-Well I don't recommend this but if you wish to kill the tuna again cook it for 6 minutes or more on each side. 1 Medium - 4½ minutes on each side. 2  Medium Well - 5 minutes on each side. 3
1 Add the tuna steaks. 2  The steaks should sizzle when added. 3  Cook, uncovered, for 6 to 9 minutes or until fish begins to flake when tested with a fork but is still pink in the center, turning once during cooking. 4  Adjust the heat as needed if the skillet gets too hot. Start with 3/4-inch-thick steaks. 1  Choose a heavy skillet that best fits the number of tuna steaks you are cooking. 2  Add 1 to 3 teaspoons cooking oil or olive oil to lightly coat the skillet. 3  Heat the skillet over medium-high heat until hot. 4 
Heat the pan on the stove for about two minutes or until it reaches medium to high heat. Gently lay each tuna steak on the hot griddle pan. Let the fish sizzle and don't move it around in the pan. Cook for only 2 minutes on the first side for a rare steak, or 5 minutes for a medium. One-inch thick tuna steaks can be perfectly cooked in about 10 minutes. Much like a good sirloin or quality beef steak, tuna suits grilling or shallow frying in very hot oil. Use a marinade for extra moisture and to add flavor to the fish.
Searing tuna steaks in a hot skillet caramelizes the surfaces of the fish and locks in the moisture. Start with 3/4-inch-thick steaks. 1  Choose a heavy skillet that best fits the number of tuna steaks you are cooking. 2  Add 1 to 3 teaspoons cooking oil or olive oil to lightly coat the skillet. 3  Heat the skillet over medium-high heat until hot. 4  Add the tuna steaks.
1 Melt the butter with the olive oil in a skillet over medium-high heat. 2  Cook the peppercorns in the mixture until they soften and pop, about 5 minutes. 3  Gently place the seasoned tuna in the skillet and cook to desired doneness, 1 1/2 minutes per side for rare. 
Step 5. Gently lay each tuna steak on the hot griddle pan. Let the fish sizzle and don't move it around in the pan. Cook for only 2 minutes on the first side for a rare steak, or 5 minutes for a medium. One-inch thick tuna steaks can be perfectly cooked in about 10 minutes. Much like a good sirloin or quality beef steak, tuna suits grilling or shallow frying in very hot oil. Use a marinade for extra moisture and to add flavor to the fish.
1 Heat the skillet over medium-high heat until hot. 2  Add the tuna steaks. 3  The steaks should sizzle when added. 4  Cook, uncovered, for 6 to 9 minutes or until fish begins to flake when tested with a fork but is still pink in the center, turning once during cooking. Start with 3/4-inch-thick steaks. 1  Choose a heavy skillet that best fits the number of tuna steaks you are cooking. 2  Add 1 to 3 teaspoons cooking oil or olive oil to lightly coat the skillet. 3  Heat the skillet over medium-high heat until hot. 4
1 Place tuna steaks in a large resealable bag or airtight container; pour marinade over steaks. 2  Marinate steaks at room temperature for 20 minutes. 3  Heat a non-stick pan over medium heat. 4  Remove steaks from marinade and arrange in the hot pan; gently shake pan to avoid sticking. 5  Cook approximately 1 1/2 minutes and flip. 1 Marinate steaks at room temperature for 20 minutes. 2  Heat a non-stick pan over medium heat. 3  Remove steaks from marinade and arrange in the hot pan; gently shake pan to avoid sticking. 4
Broil the tuna for 3 minutes per side. After 3 minutes, flip the tuna steaks over to the other side and return to the broiler for an additional 3 minutes or until done. 1  Place the broiler pan on the top rack of the oven, roughly 4 inches (10 cm) away from the top heating element. Grill the tuna steaks. Tuna steaks will usually need to cook for roughly 4 to 6 minutes per 1/2-inch (1.27-cm) thickness. Turn once in the middle of the cooking process to promote even cooking.
Sear 2.5 minutes on one side. Flip and sear 1.5 minutes on the other side. This will cook 1/4 of tuna on each side and leave the rest rare. If you like your tuna more cooked through, cover the pan, turn down the heat to medium and cook flipping the steaks half way until desired doneness. 