Vitamins are organic compounds which are needed in small quantities to sustain life. We get vitamins from food, because the human body either does not produce enough of them, or none at all. An organic compound contains carbon. When an organism (living thing) cannot produce enough of an organic chemical compound that it needs in tiny amounts, and has to get it from food, it is called a vitamin. 
In humans there are 13 vitamins: 4 fat-soluble (A, D, E, and K) and 9 water-soluble (8 B vitamins and vitamin C). Water-soluble vitamins dissolve easily in water and, in general, are readily excreted from the body, to the degree that urinary output is a strong predictor of vitamin consumption. 
Vitamin A: Why It's Important. Vitamin A is commonly known as the vitamin needed for good eyesight. Along with promoting vision, vitamin A is also vital for regulating genes, maintaining healthy skin, supporting the immune system and producing red blood cells. Vitamin A is also needed for the formation and activation of white blood cells. Vitamin A Is Important for Red Blood Cell Production. All blood cells are developed from stem cells. Vitamin A facilitates the specialization of stems into
Vitamin A is a fat-soluble vitamin that acts as an antioxidant. Antioxidants are chemicals which may help reduce risk of cancer. Since vitamin A is fat-soluble it is not needed in daily, large quantities. Fat-soluble vitamins are stored in the body in organs such as the liver. Most of the vitamin A that we consume goes to the liver to be stored until it is needed by another part of the body. The form of vitamin A found in fruits and vegetables is known as carotenoids. The most common type of carotenoid is-carotene (beta carotene). These carotenoids are used to build the type of vitamin A used by our body. Vitamin A is important to vision and the growth of the bones.
Vitamin D: Why It's Important. Vitamin D is a fat soluble vitamin that plays a vital role in the human body. It has many functions, and a lack of vitamin D can lead to many health problems. Bone Growth. Vitamin D is essential in bone growth. Its main role in the body is to increase the flow of calcium into the bloodstream. Without vitamin D, calcium would not be absorbed into the body. Therefore, vitamin D is equally important to the maintenance of bone health as is calcium. Extreme deficiency of vitamin D during childhood results in a disease called rickets.
Vitamin A is needed by the retina of the eye in the form of retinal, which combines with protein opsin to form rhodopsin, the light-absorbing molecule necessary for both low-light (scotopic vision) and color vision. 1 Retinol, the form of vitamin A absorbed when eating animal food sources, is a yellow, fat-soluble substance. 2  Since the pure alcohol form is unstable, the vitamin is found in tissues in a form of retinyl ester. 3  It is also commercially produced and administered as esters such as retinyl acetate or palmitate.
Vitamin E is a fat-soluble nutrient found in many foods. In the body, it acts as an antioxidant, helping to protect cells from the damage caused by free radicals. Free radicals are compounds formed when our bodies convert the food we eat into energy. 
Vitamin A is a fat-soluble vitamin that is naturally present in many foods. Vitamin A is important for normal vision, the immune system, and reproduction. Vitamin A also helps the heart, lungs, kidneys, and other organs work properly. 
There are several forms of Vitamin A that are needed by the body. These include: 1  Retinal-a metabolite of vitamin A required for vision. 2  Rentinol-the form of vitamin A that can be stored by the body and converted to retinal when needed. 3  Retinioc acid-a growth factor needed primarily to regulate genes. Vitamin A is also needed for the formation and activation of white blood cells. Vitamin A Is Important for Red Blood Cell Production. All blood cells are developed from stem cells. Vitamin A facilitates the specialization of stems into red
A vitamin is a small molecule that your body needs to carry out a certain reaction. Your body has no way to create vitamin molecules itself, so the vitamin molecules must come in through food that you eat. The human body is known to need at least 13 different vitamins: Inside the body, vitamins are used in many unique ways. For example, one of vitamin A's main roles is in the production of retinal. Retinal is used within the rods and cones in your eyes to sense light. The body is able to store some vitamins, such as vitamin A (up to a year's supply is stored in your liver). Other vitamins need to be re-supplied frequently. 1  Vitamins. 2  Prenatal Vitamins. 3  How Vitamin A Works. 4  How B Vitamins Work.