Whole-wheat bread or wholemeal bread is a type of bread made using flour that is partly or entirely milled from whole or almost-whole wheat grains, see whole-wheat flour and whole grain. 
Answers. Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: granary bread is the whole grain,and wholemeal is just the type of flour that is used,as wholemeal flour.granary bread is so much better for you and has a lovely nutty taste. Source(s): Tinkerbell · 8 years ago. Wholemeal is better for you than white gread, but granary is btter than wholemeal. because it has the whole bits in them it takes longer to digest and therefore has a lower GI factor and keeps you feeling fuller for longer. Just be careful you dont chip your teeth on the bits!
Granary-Style Bread is a classic English brown bread– made with a mixture of whole wheat and white flours, with cracked grains of malted barley and wheat. Since malted barley grains are nearly impossible to find in the US, we use barley malt powder and malted wheat flakes. 43 thoughts on “ English Granary-Style Bread ”. Malted barley grains are available at any homebrew store. You can choose from several ‘roasts,” from ‘black’ to ‘crystal.’. We make beer and I use some of the spent barley in a whole grain bread.
There you go again, thinking that Granary flour is a type of flour and not a brand of flour. You are just not commercial enough for the world in which we live. Granary is a brand of brown flour with malted wheat grains. It is milled by Rank Hovis Limited, the UK's leading flour miller.. Now a brown flour is not to be confused with a whole-wheat flour  it includes only about 85% of the original grain. According to our helpful source at Rank Hovis, bread made from Granary flour has a distinctive malty and nutty taste. It gives a slightly lighter result than whole-meal flour, and, like strong white flour [our bread flour], is ideal for making loaves, rolls, and deliciously different pizzas.
1 Granary bread (a registered trademark, owned by Rank Hovis) is made from flaked wheat grains and white or brown flour. 2  The standard malting process is modified to maximise the maltose or sugar content but minimise residual alpha amylase content. Bread is also made from the flour of other wheat species (including durum, spelt and emmer), rye, barley, maize (corn), and oats, usually, but not always, in combination with wheat flour. Spelt bread (Dinkelbrot) continues to be widely consumed in Germany, and emmer bread was a staple food in ancient Egypt.
Granary. Granary bread is made from brown flour with malted wheat grains added for a distinctive nutty flavour. Compared to wholemeal, it has slightly less fibre and more folic acid. 1 medium slice/35g = 82 calories, 0.9g fat, 3.3g protein, 1.5g fibre, 0.2g sodium/0.5g salt. Soda bread. Traditional Irish bread made using wholemeal or white flour and buttermilk, soda bread is made with baking powder rather than yeast, making it ideal for anyone on a yeast-free diet. 1 medium slice wholemeal soda bread/35g = 76 calories, 1.3g fat, 3.1g protein, 2.2g fibre, 0.3g sodium/0.75g salt.
This is a bread beloved by the British. We call it granary-style loaf because Granary Flour is a proprietary brand sold by a specific company in England. But it's reasonably easy to replicate by the savvy bread baker. 1 I'm from England and baked the British Granary loaf for years. 2  Here is a hint that may be helpful for those who couldn't get it to rise properly. 3  Instead of baking it in bread tins, use the quantity in this recipe to make 12 round bread rolls.
I found the easiest way to make a good version of English granary bread is to add some 'extract of malt' (available in drug stores or health food stores) to a basic multi-grain bread recipe. You can buy multi-grain flour at good stores if you don't want to m ix your own grains. The biga should triple in volume and will be wet and sticky when ready. Granary Bread: v Pour 2 cups of warm water, into a stand mixer bowl. Stir in the chosen sweetener, malted wheat flakes and 2 cups of whole (or white whole) wheat flour v Mix in the yeast and allow this sponge to “work” for 15 to 20 minutes.