For example, if a granular material is heaped on an inclined plane, then the large scale state of the system depends on the angle of the plane. For large angles the granular material flows like a non-Newtonian liquid. For small angles the granular material will behave like a solid and remain stationary. Constitutive laws for granular flows. A constitutive relation is an equation that relates the stress in a material to other known variables. The common constitutive relation in fluid dynamics sets the stress proportional to the strain rate.
Granular “A” Base is a layer of granular material generally composed of high stability graded crushed gravel or stone. It is a load bearing layer, provides drainage, reduces frost action and provides a smooth surface for paving. 
Much mechanical energy is lost to heat as the particles move (think of what happens to your kinetic energy when you jump on a beanbag chair). Granular materials form what are called “collective” systems, because the particles’ touching and rubbing together is so important in determining what happens. In a sandpile, for instance, each particle touches only a few others, but these “short range” interactions determine what happens to the whole pile. Many basic products, including a variety of building materials, chemicals, pharmaceuticals and food, are granular. Because of the properties of granular materials, many processing plants operate inefficiently and sometimes experience catastrophic failures, such as the collapsing grain container shown in the photo.
Granular materials are important constituents in many industrial processes and geophysical phenomena. However, no fundamental statistical theory is currently available to describe their properties. A major factor is the lack of quantitative experiments that can be used to develop models. We may think of these systems as a collection of grains. The behavior of a single grain is easily understood, but the properties of a collection of grains is very complex. Granular materials when poured or shaken display a surprising range of collective behavior such as convection, size separation and pattern formation.
Granular Materials. A granular material is a collection of distinct macroscopic particles, such as sand in an hourglass or peanuts in a container. The evolution of the particles follows Newton's equations, with repulsive forces between particles that are non-zero only when there is a contact between particles. Constitutive laws for granular flows. A constitutive relation is an equation that relates the stress in a material to other known variables. The common constitutive relation in fluid dynamics sets the stress proportional to the strain rate.
Examples of granular materials. A granular material is a conglomeration of discrete solid, macroscopic particles characterized by a loss of energy whenever the particles interact (the most common example would be friction when grains collide). In some sense, granular materials do not constitute a single phase of matter but have characteristics reminiscent of solids, liquids, or gases depending on the average energy per grain. However in each of these states granular materials also exhibit properties which are unique.
According to material scientist Patrick Richard, Granular materials are ubiquitous in nature and are the second-most manipulated material in industry (the first one is water). In some sense, granular materials do not constitute a single phase of matter but have characteristics reminiscent of solids, liquids, or gases depending on the average energy per grain. However in each of these states granular materials also exhibit properties which are unique.
Thus, the lower size limit for grains in granular material is about 1 µm. On the upper size limit, the physics of granular materials may be applied to ice floes where the individual grains are icebergs and to asteroid belts of the solar system with individual grains being asteroids. In some sense, granular materials do not constitute a single phase of matter but have characteristics reminiscent of solids, liquids, or gases depending on the average energy per grain. However in each of these states granular materials also exhibit properties which are unique.
Granularity is the extent to which a material or system is composed of distinguishable pieces or grains. It can either refer to the extent to which a larger entity is subdivided, or the extent to which groups of smaller indistinguishable entities have joined together to become larger distinguishable entities. The terms fine and coarse are used consistently across fields, but the term granularity itself is not. For example, in investing, more granularity refers to more positions of smaller size, while photographic film that is more granular has fewer and larger chemical grains..