Areas the Nerves Control. The nerves in the area of a vertebra control specific parts of the body. For example, the 7th cervical nerve (C7) in the neck area controls the triceps (the muscle in the upper arm), while the thoracic nerves (T2 through T7) control the chest muscles. Damage lower down on the spine (thoracic, lumbar, or sacral segments) can result in paralysis of the legs and lower body (paraplegia). Breathing is affected only by injuries high on the spinal cord. But bowel and bladder control can be affected no matter where the spinal cord in injured.
The nerves in each area of the spinal cord connect to specific parts of your body. This is why damage to the spinal cord can cause paralysis in certain areas and not others -- it depends on which spinal nerves are affected. The nerves of the cervical spine go to the upper chest and arms. The nerves in your thoracic spine go to your chest and abdomen. The nerves of the lumbar spine then reach to your legs, bowel, and bladder. These nerves coordinate and control all the body's organs and parts, and let you control your muscles. The spinal cord is a column of nerves that connects your brain with the rest of your body, allowing you to control your movements. Without a spinal cord, you could not move any part of your body, and your organs could not function. This is why keeping your spine healthy is vital if you want to live an active life.
The higher the injury on the spinal cord, the more paralysis there is. For example, damage high on the spinal cord, in the cervical segment, can result in paralysis of the chest, arms, and legs (tetraplegia, also known as quadriplegia). Damage lower down on the spine (thoracic, lumbar, or sacral segments) can result in paralysis of the legs and lower body (paraplegia). Breathing is affected only by injuries high on the spinal cord. But bowel and bladder control can be affected no matter where the spinal cord in injured.
Chiropractic Treatment of the Cervical Spine. Neck (cervical spine) pain is a common issue among many people. The cervical spine consists of seven vertebrae that start from the base of your head to the upper area of your shoulders. If the cervical spine is not aligned properly, it could cause many different unwanted symptoms other than just pain.
Cervical Nerve Functions. Branching off from the nerves in the spinal cord, the cervical nerves are responsible for relaying messages and ensuring functioning to different body parts. 1  See Spinal Cord and Spinal Nerve Roots. 1 C1 and C2 (the first two cervical nerves) control the head. 2  C3 and C4 help control the diaphragm (the sheet of muscle that stretches to the bottom of the rib cage and plays an important role in breathing and respiration).
The cervical spine (neck) is made up of a series of connected bones called vertebrae. The bones protect the spinal canal that runs through the vertebrae and carries the spinal cord. The spinal cord contains nerves that give strength and sensation to the arms and legs, and provide bowel and bladder control. Numerous con-nections (discs, joints, ligaments and muscles) between the cervical vertebrae provide sup-port, stability and allow motion.
These nerves travel outside of the spinal canal or spinal cord into the organs, arms, legs, fingers—throughout the entire body. Injury or mild trauma to the cervical spine can cause a serious or life-threatening medical emergency (eg, spinal cord injury or a spinal fracture). The cervical spine (sometimes abbreviated as c-spine in the medical world) begins at the base of the skull. Seven vertebrae make up the cervical spine with eight pairs of cervical nerves.
Pressure on the spinal cord, as it runs through the cervical spine, can cause many symptoms. Cervical stenosis can cause weakness and spasticity in the legs. Spasticity means you to lose control over your legs and you may have a great deal of difficulty walking due to loss of control of where you place your feet. As the bone spurs form, the size of the spinal canal becomes smaller. The bone spurs begin to press on the spinal cord or the nerve roots. Pressure on the nerves in the spinal cord can cause numbness, tingling, or pain in the arms, hands, and legs. This condition is sometimes called cervical myelopathy.
Watch Cervical Radiculopathy Video. In addition to the seven cervical vertebrae, cervical anatomy features eight cervical nerves (C1-C8) that branch off of the spinal cord and control different types of bodily and sensory activities. Each cervical nerve is named based on the lower cervical vertebra that it runs between. 1 C1 and C2 (the first two cervical nerves) control the head. 2  C3 and C4 help control the diaphragm (the sheet of muscle that stretches to the bottom of the rib cage and plays an important role in breathing and respiration).
The spine is also designed to protect your spinal cord. The spinal cord is a column of nerves that connects your brain with the rest of your body, allowing you to control your movements. Without a spinal cord, you could not move any part of your body, and your organs could not function. This is why keeping your spine healthy is vital if you want to live an active life.