And the history of the polygraph-better known as the lie detector test-is littered with people who have been able to trick it. The polygraph machine was invented in 1921 in Berkeley, California. Berkeley was a town with a very famous police chief, August Vollmer, and he was in charge of police reform and a leader of police professionalisation in the United States, says Ken Alder, professor of history at Northwestern University in Chicago. The science behind the lie detector test has been disputed since its creation 90 years ago, so is there any reliable way to tell if someone is lying, asks Dr Geoff Bunn, author of The Truth Machine: A Social History of the Lie Detector.
Although there were many forms of the lie detector invented before the 1920’s, the first continuous recording polygraph machine was invented during this decade. This machine worked by monitoring changes blood pressure, heart rate, and the respiration rate. 
A polygraph, popularly referred to as a lie detector, measures and records several physiological indices such as blood pressure, pulse, respiration, and skin conductivity while the subject is asked and answers a series of questions. Despite his predecessor's contributions, Marston styled himself the father of the polygraph . Marston remained the device's primary advocate, lobbying for its use in the courts. In 1938 he published a book, The Lie Detector Test, wherein he documented the theory and use of the device.
1921- According to the BBC, in their reporting of the unusual history of the Polygraph, the machine was invented in Berkely, Claifornia by John Larson. He was working to use science to improve police tactics and behavior, and invented the prototype that would be come the polygraph. 1980s- 1990s – The first attempts to computerize the Polygraph began in the 80s, but it wasn’t until the early 1990s, like most of the rest of the world, scientists started working on ways to bring the polygraph into the modern, computer age.
The first polygraph (lie detector) , suitable for use in criminal investigations, was invented in 1921 by John Augustus Larson (1892-1965) a medical student at the University of California and a police officer of the Berkeley Police Department (Berkeley, California, USA). In 1938 the polygraph was used for the first time with the purpose of endorsing a product – in a magazine advertisement endorsing Gillette razor blades. Above mentioned Dr. William Marston accepted a 1938 offer from a Detroit ad agency.
He invented an advanced type of lie detector. This invention first was a failure by James Mackenzie in 1902, but when John Larson advanced this invention he changed what the machine studied. His machine looked at the blood pressure, pulse rate, and perspiration. The test they took lasted for about 2 hours. After the test experts would examine the results to determine if the person was telling the truth about the crime. The lie detector uses different wires with a rubber pad to measure rates and pulses. They place the wires in different places on the body.
John Larson the inventor of the lie detector or polygraph first started as a medical grad at California University. This invention first was a failure by James Mackenzie in 1902, but when John Larson advanced this invention he changed what the machine studied. The test they took lasted for about 2 hours. After the test experts would examine the results to determine if the person was telling the truth about the crime. The lie detector uses different wires with a rubber pad to measure rates and pulses. They place the wires in different places on the body.
The lie detector was used to determine if a person was guilty or innocent of a crime. This invention first was a failure by James Mackenzie in 1902, but when John Larson advanced this invention he changed what the machine studied. The test they took lasted for about 2 hours. After the test experts would examine the results to determine if the person was telling the truth about the crime. The lie detector uses different wires with a rubber pad to measure rates and pulses. They place the wires in different places on the body.
John Larson, a University of California medical student, invented the modern lie detector (polygraph) in 1921. Used in police interrogation and investigation since 1924, the lie detector is still controversial among psychologists, and is not always judicially acceptable. The name polygraph comes from the fact that the machine records several different body responses simultaneously as the individual is questioned. The theory is that when a person lies, the lying causes a certain amount of stress that produces changes in several involuntary physiological reactions. During a lie detector test, the operator asks a series of control questions that set the pattern of how an individual responds when giving true and false answers. Then the actual questions are asked, mixed in with filler questions. The examination lasts about 2 hours, after which the expert interprets the data.
And the history of the polygraph-better known as the lie detector test-is littered with people who have been able to trick it. The polygraph machine was invented in 1921 in Berkeley, California. Berkeley was a town with a very famous police chief, August Vollmer, and he was in charge of police reform and a leader of police professionalisation in the United States, says Ken Alder, professor of history at Northwestern University in Chicago.