Medical marijuana is legal in 23 states, the District of Columbia and Guam, and recreational use of the drug is legal in Washington State and Colorado. 
The use, sale and possession of cannabis (marijuana) in the United States is illegal under federal law. However, some states have created exemptions for medical cannabis use, as well as decriminalized non-medical cannabis use. In four states, Alaska, Colorado, Oregon and Washington, the sale and possession of marijuana is legal for both medical and non-medical use; and Washington DC has legalized personal use but not commercial sale.
Medical Marijuana. These states have medical marijuana laws enacted. Modern research suggests that cannabis is a valuable aid in the treatment of a wide range of clinical applications. These include pain relief, nausea, spasticity, glaucoma, and movement disorders. 
1212 CONNECT 92 TWEET 5 LINKEDIN 17 COMMENT EMAIL MORE. Medical marijuana is now legal in 20 states and the District of Columbia. Of those states, Washington and Colorado have legalized marijuana for recreational use. Colorado's first retail marijuana stores opened Jan. 1 for sale to people 21 years and older. Under federal law, marijuana is still an illegal drug. Although many states have laws legalizing marijuana usage, it is still illegal under federal law; but the Justice Department said it will not challenge states' marijuana laws as long as they do not run counter to certain federal enforcement priorities, such as selling pot to minors.
As of April 2015, 23 states and Washington D.C. have legalized cannabis for medical use as voter or legislative driven initiatives bypassing the normal Food and Drug Administration testing for safety and efficacy. Seven states have pending legislation. In the United States, there are important legal differences between medical cannabis at the federal and state levels. At the federal level, cannabis per se has been made criminal by implementation of the Controlled Substances Act, but as of 2009, new federal guidelines have been enacted.
A total of 23 states, the District of Columbia and Guam now allow for comprehensive public medical marijuana and cannabis programs. Recently approved efforts in 14 states allow use of low THC, high cannabidiol (CBD) products for medical reasons in limited situations or as a legal defense. Those programs are not counted as comprehensive medical marijuana programs but are listed as passed in Table 2.
Roundup of State Action in 2014. States that only allow medical marijuana for children with seizure disorders: Alabama, Florida, Iowa, Kentucky, Mississippi, Missouri, Tennessee, Utah, Wisconsin. States that recently passed broader medical marijuana laws: Maryland and Minnesota. Reviewed by Michael W. Smith, MD. May 22, 2014 -- More than half the states in the country now have laws that in some way permit medical marijuana -- even in the most conservative states. This week, Minnesota became the 22nd state, along with Washington, D.C., to allow broad use of medical marijuana.
Other states have passed medical marijuana laws allowing for limited use of cannabis. Some medical marijuana laws are broader than others, with types of medical conditions that allow for treatment varying from state to state. Most recently, Georgia Gov. Nathan Deal signed a law legalizing the possession of up to 20 ounces of cannabis oil. The map below show states legalizing marijuana use for medical and recreational purposes. Information below is current as of June 19, 2015.
Twenty-three states and the District of Columbia currently have laws legalizing marijuana in some form. Four states and the District of Columbia have legalized marijuana for recreational use. In Alaska, adults 21 and older can now transport, buy or possess up to an ounce of marijuana and six plants. Most recently, Georgia Gov. Nathan Deal signed a law legalizing the possession of up to 20 ounces of cannabis oil. The map below show states legalizing marijuana use for medical and recreational purposes. Information below is current as of June 19, 2015.
In 1996, California voters passed Proposition 215, making the Golden State the first in the union to allow for the medical use of marijuana. Since then, 22 more states, the District of Columbia and Guam have enacted similar laws. Recently approved efforts in 14 states allow use of low THC, high cannabidiol (CBD) products for medical reasons in limited situations or as a legal defense. Those programs are not counted as comprehensive medical marijuana programs but are listed as passed in Table 2.