A protein-sparing diet is a modified fast, intended for obese individuals to achieve rapid weight loss, the Cleveland Clinic says. The protein-sparing diet is very restrictive and should be a plan you follow while working with your physician and dietitian.
Summing it Up. A protein-sparing modified fast is a low-calorie, very high-protein diet designed to help minimize the muscle wasting and nutrient deficiency problems of traditional fasting. It’s used as a temporary way to kick-start the beginning of a weight-loss program in people who have severe obesity to start with. 
ketogenic diet one that produces ketones or acetones, or mild acidosis, such as one that is low in calories with insufficient carbohydrate and protein; it is occasionally used in the treatment of epilepsy. See also low fat diet. protein-sparing diet one consisting only of liquid proteins or liquid mixtures of proteins, vitamins, and minerals, and containing no more than 600 calories; designed to maintain a favorable nitrogen balance.
It is vitally important that patients with liver disease maintain a balanced diet, one which ensures adequate calories, carbohydrates, fats and proteins. Such a diet will aid the liver in the regeneration of liver cells. Nutrition that supports this regeneration is a means of treatment of some liver disorders. Patients with cirrhosis, for example, who are malnourished, require a diet rich in protein and providing 2,000 - 3,000 calories per day to help the liver re-build itself.
The optimal protein issue is a tricky one. It is different for people on a low-carb diet as compared to those on a high-carb diet because of the protein-sparing effect of carbs. The central nervous system, red blood cells, and other tissues requiring glucose for energy use about 200 grams per day. Hi Victoria–. 
PSMF is a type of very low calorie diet with dehydration being a health concern, hence fluids, vitamin and mineral (potassium, magnesium, sodium, and calcium) supplementation is mandatory and doctor's supervision is recommended. A Protein-Sparing Modified Fast attempts to spare the dieter the health risks of a complete fast by introducing the minimum amount of protein necessary to prevent muscle-wasting effects, while still eliminating fats and carbohydrates.
adjective Referring to any manoeuvre intended to minimise protein catabolism. Protein-sparing manoeuvres include addition of carbohydrates and fats to a low-protein diet in order to reduce protein breakdown. inadequate protein in the diet leads to impaired cell-mediated immunity, delayed wound healing and loss of lean body mass. protein-calorie ratio. the number of calories provided from protein sources, compared with the total caloric intake; an indication of the level of protein intake.
(October 2012). The Protein-Sparing Modified Fast, or PSMF, is a total fast modified by the intake of a bare minimum of protein, fluids, vitamins, and mineral supplementation. PSMF was designed in the late 1970s as a diet for a rapid weight loss for the morbidly obese. A Protein-Sparing Modified Fast attempts to spare the dieter the health risks of a complete fast by introducing the minimum amount of protein necessary to prevent muscle-wasting effects, while still eliminating fats and carbohydrates.
Although a protein-sparing diet typically provides fewer than 900 calories per day, it avoids most loss of lean body mass because it includes 70 to 90 grams per day of high-quality protein, according to a 2006 issue of The Journal of Nutrition.. The protein-sparing diet is very restrictive and should be a plan you follow while working with your physician and dietitian.
protein-sparing diet one consisting only of liquid protein or liquid mixtures of proteins, vitamins, and minerals, containing no more than 600 calories; it is designed to maintain a favorable nitrogen balance. protein-sparing diet one consisting only of liquid proteins or liquid mixtures of proteins, vitamins, and minerals, and containing no more than 600 calories;