The innervation of brown adipose tissue (BAT) by the sympathetic nervous system (SNS) is incontrovertible and, with its activation, functions as the principal, if not exclusive, stimulator of BAT thermogenesis. In a chronic decerebration procedure, IBAT UCP-1 gene expression can be triggered by fourth ventricular injections of melanotan II, the melanocortin 3/4 receptor agonist, suggesting that there is sufficient hindbrain neural circuitry to generate thermogenic responses with this stimulation.
Adipose tissue is one of the main types of connective tissue. In biology, adipose tissue /ˈaedɨˌpoʊs/ ˈædɨˌpoʊs or body fat or just fat is loose connective tissue composed mostly of. adipocytes In humans, adipose tissue is located beneath the skin (subcutaneous fat), around internal organs (visceral fat), in bone marrow (yellow bone marrow), intermuscular (Muscular system) and in the breast tissue. Adipose tissue is found in specific locations, which are referred to as adipose depots.
The possibility that sensory innervation of adipose tissue exists has only recently been addressed and raises many interesting possibilities in regard to pain sensation, the regulation of body fat, and the role of neurogenic inflammation in inflammatory conditions of fat. The specialized nature of brown adipose tissue means that it appears to respond in a more uniform way to sympathetic stimulation than WAT. The prime roles of BAT are thermogenesis and overall energy control. The sympathetic nervous system is of major, but not sole, importance in the control of these processes.
In general, the function of the sympathetic nervous system can be described in terms of catabolism, whereas the function of the parasympathetic system can be described as anabolic. SUMMARY: Innervation by autonomic nerves modulates glucose and fat metabolism in adipose tissue. This is reflected in the modulation of lipolysis/lipogenesis, local insulin sensitivity of glucose and fatty acid uptake, the expression levels of several adipokines in adipose tissue, and the modulation of fat cell number.
Moreover, adipose tissue can affect other organ systems of the body and may lead to disease. The two types of adipose tissue are white adipose tissue (WAT), which stores energy, and brown adipose tissue (BAT), which generates body heat. The formation of adipose tissue appears to be controlled in part by the adipose gene. In humans, adipose tissue is located beneath the skin (subcutaneous fat), around internal organs (visceral fat), in bone marrow (yellow bone marrow), intermuscular (Muscular system) and in the breast tissue. Adipose tissue is found in specific locations, which are referred to as adipose depots
Abstract. The evidence describing the autonomic innervation of body fat is reviewed with a particular focus on the role of the sympathetic neurotransmitters. In compiling the evidence, a strong case emerges for the interaction between autonomic nerves and perivascular adipose tissue (PVAT). There are surprisingly few reports directly implicating a role for α 1 -ARs in adipose tissue and particularly in PVAT. Given the wealth of literature describing the sympathetic innervation of fat it could be expected that adipocytes would be likely to express at least one of the α 1 -AR subtypes.
Abstract. The innervation of brown adipose tissue (BAT) by the sympathetic nervous system (SNS) is incontrovertible and, with its activation, functions as the principal, if not exclusive, stimulator of BAT thermogenesis. Brown adipose tissue (BAT) was first identified by Gesner in 1551 in European marmots Muris alpines, and almost 400 years later was termed the ‘hibernation gland’ by Sheldon.
White adipose tissue (WAT) is innervated by the sympathetic nervous system. A role for WAT sympathetic noradrenergic nerves in lipid mobilization has been suggested. Weight (A) and volume (B) of epididymal (ED) and retroperitoneal (RP) white adipose tissue (WAT) depots in control rats (C) and in animals that have lost 15%, 25%, and 30% of body weight.
PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Adipose tissue is of fundamental importance for the integrative physiology of the body by serving metabolic and endocrine functions. The purpose of this review is to evaluate the functions of the autonomic innervation of adipose tissue. This is reflected in the modulation of lipolysis/lipogenesis, local insulin sensitivity of glucose and fatty acid uptake, the expression levels of several adipokines in adipose tissue, and the modulation of fat cell number.