The oldest document to bear the word croquet with a description of the modern game is the set of rules registered by Isaac Spratt in November 1856 with the Stationers' Company in London. This record is now in the Public Record Office. Croquet became highly popular as a social pastime in England during the 1860s. It was enthusiastically adopted and promoted by the Earl of Essex who held lavish croquet parties at Cassiobury House, his stately home in Watford, Hertfordshire, and the Earl even launched his own Cassiobury brand croquet set.
The term sticky wicket does not originate with croquet-it actually comes from cricket. These wickets or hoops are driven into the ground by hand or a large wooden mallet. A good hoop should have uprights that are 5/8-inch in diameter with a gap between 3-3/4 inches and 4 inches wide with a 12-inch crown. 
When you hit (or roquet) another ball with your ball, you get two extra strokes: a croquet stroke, in which your ball is placed in contact with the roqueted ball and then struck so that both balls move, and then a continuation. How big is a croquet lawn? The standard court for Association Croquet, American Rules Croquet or Golf Croquet is 35 yards (32 metres) long and 28 yards (25.6 metres) wide.
Croquet: 1858, from Northern French dialect croquet hockey stick,. Game originated in Brittany, popularized in Ireland c.1830. 
In 1852 or 1853, croquet was introduced into England from Ireland, where a game called crooky, which used implements similar to the modern ones, had been played in Portarlington, Queen's County, Kilkee, in County Clare, and Kingstown, near Dublin, since the 1830's. Croquet's resurgence was aided by the arrival of Cyril Corbally, who, along with other great Irish players such as Duff Matthews and Leslie O'Callaghan, introduced new skills and tactics to the game. Croquet's popularity continued undiminished until the outbreak of World War I.
When playing a croquet shot you will generally want the two balls to go in different directions. To do this line up the two balls in the direction you want the croqueted ball to travel. It will go along this line regardless of the direction in which you send the striker's ball. 
The earliest known reference to croquet in Scotland is the booklet The Game of Croquet, its Laws and Regulations which was published in the mid-1860s for the proprietor of Eglinton Castle, the Earl of Eglinton. On the page facing the title page is a picture of Eglinton Castle with a game of croquet in full swing. Croquet became highly popular as a social pastime in England during the 1860s. It was enthusiastically adopted and promoted by the Earl of Essex who held lavish croquet parties at Cassiobury House, his stately home in Watford, Hertfordshire, and the Earl even launched his own Cassiobury brand croquet set.
No one knows how the game reached Ireland, although it has been suggested that it was introduced by French nuns or possibly by French refugees. According to the Oxford English Dictionary, the word croquet is a form of the word croche, an old North French word used to mean shepherd's crook. The word is found in more modem French dialects, where it is used to mean 'hockey stock'. Croquet's resurgence was aided by the arrival of Cyril Corbally, who, along with other great Irish players such as Duff Matthews and Leslie O'Callaghan, introduced new skills and tactics to the game. Croquet's popularity continued undiminished until the outbreak of World War I.
The noun CROQUET has 1 sense: 1. a game in which players hit a wooden ball through a series of hoops; the winner is the first to traverse all the hoops and hit a peg. Familiarity information: CROQUET used as a noun is very rare. • CROQUET (verb). The verb CROQUET has 2 senses: 1. drive away by hitting with one's ball, 2. play a game in which players hit a wooden ball through a series of hoops. Familiarity information: CROQUET used as a verb is rare.