Like the rest of the planet, the atmosphere of Saturn is made up approximately 75% hydrogen and 25% helium, with trace amounts of other substances like water ice and methane. Saturn's aurora in Ultraviolet from Hubble.Credits: J.T. Trauger (Jet Propulsion Laboratory) and NASA. 
The atmosphere of Jupiter lacks a clear lower boundary and gradually transitions into the liquid interior of the planet. From lowest to highest, the atmospheric layers are the troposphere, stratosphere, thermosphere and exosphere. The internal heat may be important for the dynamics of the Jovian atmosphere. While Jupiter has a small obliquity of about 3°, and its poles receive much less solar radiation than its equator, the tropospheric temperatures do not change appreciably from the equator to poles.
JUPITER'S ATMOSPHERE. When we look at Jupiter, whether it be through a telescope, or from spacecraft images. shows not the surface of the planet, but the atmosphere. The atmosphere appears as alternating bands of light regions, called zones, and dark regions called belts, that run parallel to the equator. 
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The type of atmosphere found in Jupiter is mostly made up of hydrogen. Jupiter does not any solid surface and this is why it is known as a gaseous planet. Jupiters Atmosphere is not as good as the other planets Hydrogen and helium The atmosphere of Jupiter is made up of hydrogen, helium, ammonia, methane, and water vapor. The atmosphere appears as alternating bands of light regions, called zones, and the dark regions called belts, that run parrellel to the equator.
A satellite which has an atmosphere, such as Jupiter's moon Io, and which also is inside a magnetosphere (unlike the Earth's moon), will leave a cloud of particles behind as it orbits the planet. This ...more. Io's Atmosphere. Io's atmosphere comes from its volcanoes, then disperses because, as a small moon, Io does not have substantial gravity. Because the atmosphere comes from its volcanoes, the air of Io is made primarily of sulphur.
It is mostly made of molecular hydrogen and helium in roughly solar proportions; other chemical compounds are present only in small amounts and include methane, ammonia, hydrogen sulfide and water. Although water is thought to reside deep in the atmosphere, its directly measured concentration is very low. The internal heat may be important for the dynamics of the Jovian atmosphere. While Jupiter has a small obliquity of about 3°, and its poles receive much less solar radiation than its equator, the tropospheric temperatures do not change appreciably from the equator to poles.
Jupiter's atmosphere is thick and has a lot of gases. The planet Jupiter has a very gaseous atmosphere, comprised mainly of helium and hydrogen. Jupiter actually has no soli … d land beneath its gassy layers, just thicker clouds of gas within itself. 
The Atmosphere of Europa. A satellite which has an atmosphere, such as Jupiter's moon Io, and which also is inside a magnetosphere (unlike the Earth's moon), will leave a cloud of particles behind as it orbits the planet. Ozone is an important constituent of the Earth s atmosphere. Even though Ganymede and Callisto have thin atmospheres, there does not seem to be a Ganymede or Callisto torus, the way there is at Europa and Io. Last modified September 19, 2003 by Jennifer Bergman.