Facts About Heather Flower. 1  The scientific name, Calluna vulgaris, in general, came from Calluna, from the Greek 'Kallune' meaning to clean or brush, as the twigs were used for making brooms and 'vulgaris' from the Latin word, meaning common. 2  Heather flowers are a traditional remedy in Swedish herbal medicine. 
Look up Heather in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. Heather is a popular English and Scottish given name for girls. It simply means heather from the English word for the variety of small shrubs with pink or white flowers which commonly grow in rocky areas. 
Heather ▼ has 2 variants: Heath and Hether. Heather is a very popular first name for women (#53 out of 4276, Top 1%) and also a very popular surname for all people (#18883 out of 150436, Top 13%). Heather /heath-er/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced HEH-ther. It is of Middle English origin. Flower name: an evergreen flowering plant that thrives on peaty barren lands, as in Scotland. Has an upper-class aura. Actress Heather Locklear.
Then just follow the diagram below. Just for fun, see the name Heather in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Heather in Nautical Flags page. View the Heather Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Heather has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Heather to other names. Heather falls into the flower name category.
2. Heather. Fun, crazy, beautiful, witty, sarcastic, loving, kind, stupid funny, precious, good-catch, smart, kinda psychic, loves to be looney, loves chocolate way too much, eyes the color of the carribean, empathetic, a girl you can't live without, once you've met her...you can't get her out of your mind. 
Heather. it means full of wholesome beauty..(someone should start a group on facebook for people with the name Heather... I'm a Heather too.. =D). 108: vote up - 22: vote down. it means a purple flower. 91: vote up - 21: vote down. 
Description [edit]. Calluna has small scale-leaves (less than 2–3 mm long) borne in opposite and decussate pairs, whereas those of Erica are generally larger and in whorls of 3-4, sometimes 5. The flowers emerge in late summer; in wild plants these are normally mauve, but white-flowered plants also occur occasionally. 
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: heather (Noun). An evergreen plant, Calluna vulgaris, with spiky leaves and small purple, pink, or white flowers. heather (Noun). The Ericaceae family. heather (Noun). Various species of the genus Erica. heather (Noun). Various species of the genus Cassiope. Nearby & related entries: 1  heathenized. 2  heathenizing. 3  heathenness. 4  heathenry. 5  heathens. 6  heather bell. 7  heather mixture. 8  heather-bell. 9  heather-mixture. 10  heathered.
The Meaning of the name Heather The meaning of the name Heather is as follows: Heather. The Origin of the name Heather The origin of the name Heather is believed to be: Middle English. The Hidden Meaning of the name Heather using Numerology Numerology is an ancient science which was developed by Pythagoras. 