Research what it takes to become a certified addictions counselor. Learn about education requirements, job duties, average wages and job outlook to find out if this is the career for you. Schools offering Addiction Counseling degrees can also be found in these popular choices. Certified addictions counselors help people who have addictions to alcohol, gambling, drugs or who have eating disorders. As a counselor, you will identify addictive behaviors and develop strategies to overcome that behavior. You may work with patients individually or in group setting
Certified Addiction Counselor Course Information. Thank you for your interest in meeting the education requirements to become a Certified Addiction Counselor. You have made a decision to pursue one of the highest designations in the addictions field. With this designation, your prospects of finding the right job in the addictions field will increase dramatically. With the training you receive at The Academy for Addiction Professionals, you’ll be well prepared for the Florida Certification Board’s exam. Below, you’ll find more information on the educational requirements to become a CAC.
Certificate in Addiction Counseling. The Certificate in Addiction Counseling prepares you for entry-level counseling positions* with a range of knowledge and skills, including Twelve Step facilitation and other evidence-based approaches.
Certified addictions counselors help people with addictions to alcohol, drugs, and gambling, or who have eating disorders. As an addictions counselor you'll work with both patients and family members to help prevent and treat addictions. Certified addictions counselors help people who have addictions to alcohol, gambling, drugs or who have eating disorders. As a counselor, you will identify addictive behaviors and develop strategies to overcome that behavior. You may work with patients individually or in group setting
Another exam that you may need to take is the Examination for Master Addiction Counselors, also offered by the NBCC. You will need to hold certification as a professional counselor through the NBCC. Additionally, you will need to demonstrate that you have had at least twelve graduate semester hours in addictions. If you don't have a degree yet, you may want to pursue a degree in addiction studies. If you have a degree -- even better! Look into making yourself a competitive candidate for a master's level program in addictions counseling. You will want to ask what level of licensing/ certification the program prepares you for.
The certificate is awarded by the Georgia Addiction Counselors Association Certification Board under the auspices of the GACA Board of Directors after the applicant has successfully completed the certification procedure. Certification. The Certification Procedure is a voluntary process which may be initiated by any person desiring to be certified as an addiction counselor.