Height Measurements. The Army calculates your ideal target weight using your height as a basis. For example, if you're a female candidate between the ages of 17 and 20 -- the age of a typical recruit -- and 60 inches tall, your target weight ranges from 97 to 128 pounds. The U.S. Army has height and weight requirements you must meed to be eligible for enlistment. If you don't meet those standards, you may not be able to sign up or go to basic training. The requirements are different for men and women, and are bracketed by minimum and maximum weights per age. It's all for a reason
Below are the height/weight tables for males and females. Remember, if you first are found to exceed the maximum weight for your height, you will then have your body fat evaluated. If your body fat exceeds the Army's standards, that is when action will be taken. Request Info on How to Join the US Army.
APFT Standards. Below are the US Army APFT Standards as of 2014. There are different APFT Standards according to your age and sex (male or female). In order to complete Basic Training, you will need to score at least 50 points in each event. 
Fat vs. Muscle. Body Composition is the amount of body fat a Soldier has in comparison to their total body mass. To be eligible to enlist in the Army, you must meet the height and weight requirements for your age and height. If you are over the prescribed weight for your height, you can still qualify by being below the specified body fat composition for your age. 
Height and Weight Requirements. The Army has very specific physical fitness requirements. If you are thinking about joining and want to know what kind of shape you need to be in, these charts will tell you everything you need to know. The chart below will show you what the weight requirements are for joining the U.S. Army. Check your height and weight to make sure you are in shape for the Army!
How to use the Height and Weight chart below. Use the height and weight chart below to see if you meet the Army standards. First, find your height (in inches) using the left-most column. Then, right next to it you’ll see the minimum weight allowed. To find you maximum weight, go to the column corresponding to your age group. 
Save. Physical requirements for women in the Army are outlined in Army Regulation (AR) 40-501: Standards of Medical Fitness.. Army females must reach minimum height and weight requirements and cannot exceed weight limits commensurate to their height. Females cannot be pregnant when entering the Armed Services. All soldiers must be able pass the Army's Physical Fitness Test (APFT)
U.S. Army Weight Requirements. Below is the Army's weight minimum and maximum allowable for recruits to enlist. It is broken down by height and then further in to age groups. Height will be measured in stocking feet on a flat surface with the chin parallel to the floor. The body should be straight but not rigid, similar to the position of attention. 