Eszopiclone was designated as a Schedule IV controlled substance in April 2005 by the Federal Register. It should not be used in conjunction with other prescription or nonprescription sleep aids, by pregnant women, or by patients with known psychiatric illness without medical supervision. FDA approval of Lunesta was based on results from six clinical trials enrolling a total of 2100 subjects with chronic and transient insomnia. The FDA's decision to approve Lunesta for the long-term treatment of insomnia was based on a six-month, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial enrolling 788 subjects.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Yes, Lunesta is a controlled substance. It is a schedule IV medication. It is possible for a person to abuse it or become dependent on it. It is used as a sleep agent. Other medications that fall in the same category that are used for the same reasons are Ambien, and Sonata. Yes, schedule IV From http://www.rxlist.com/cgi/generic/lunest... Controlled Substance Class LUNESTA is a Schedule IV controlled substance under the Controlled Substances Act..
LUNESTA is a Schedule IV controlled substance under the Controlled Substances Act. Other substances under the same classification are benzodiazepines and the nonbenzodiazepine hypnotics zaleplon and zolpidem. In placebo-controlled, parallel-group clinical trials in the elderly, 3.8% of 208 patients who received placebo, 2.3% of 215 patients who received 2 mg LUNESTA, and 1.4% of 72 patients who received 1 mg LUNESTA discontinued treatment due to an adverse reaction.
A: Lunesta (eszopiclone) is classified as a sedative-hypnotic. This statement is printed directly from the manufacturer in the Lunesta medication guide. According to the manufacturer, Lunesta is a federally controlled substance (C-IV) because it can be abused or lead to dependence. A: Lunesta (eszopiclone) is classified as a nonbenzodiazepine hypnotic. Lunesta is approved for the treatment of insomnia. It is very important to take your medications exactly how prescribed by your physician. If you are considering stopping Lunesta, talk to your physician first.
LUNESTA ® (eszopiclone) is indicated for the treatment of insomnia. In controlled outpatient and sleep laboratory studies, LUNESTA administered at bedtime decreased sleep latency and improved sleep maintenance. † In clinical studies, LUNESTA was proven effective to help the majority of insomnia patients fall asleep and stay asleep for up to 7 hours. Bring rest into the night † with LUNESTA ® (eszopiclone) to help insomnia patients fall asleep and stay asleep so they can wake up feeling rested. † In clinical studies, LUNESTA was proven effective to help the majority of insomnia patients fall asleep and stay asleep for up to 7 hours. Individual results may vary.
In the United States Eszopiclone is a schedule IV controlled substance under the Controlled Substances Act. Use of benzodiazepines and similar benzodiazepine-like drugs such as eszopiclone may lead to physical and psychological dependence. Eszopiclone (Lunesta) along with other  Z-drugs  including zolpidem (Ambien), zaleplon (Sonata) are the most commonly prescribed sedative hypnotics in the United States.
INDICATION. Lunesta® (eszopiclone) is a prescription sleep medicine used in adults for the treatment of a sleep problem called insomnia. Symptoms of insomnia include trouble falling asleep and waking up often during the night. You are encouraged to report negative side effects of prescription drugs to the FDA. 
LUNESTA is used in adults for the treatment of a sleep problem called insomnia. Symptoms of insomnia include:  trouble falling asleep  waking up often during the night LUNESTA is not for children. LUNESTA is a federally controlled substance (C-IV) because it can be abused or lead to dependence. Keep LUNESTA in a safe place to prevent misuse and abuse.
1. LUNESTA is a sedative-hypnotic (sleep) medicine. LUNESTA is used in adults for the treatment of a sleep problem called insomnia. Symptoms of insomnia include: • trouble falling asleep • waking up often during the night LUNESTA is not for children. LUNESTA is a federally controlled substance (C-IV) because it can be abused or lead to dependence. Keep LUNESTA in a safe place to prevent misuse and abus