Reactions and compounds. New substances are formed by chemical reactions. When elements react together to form compounds their atoms join to other atoms using chemical bonds. For example, iron and sulfur react together to form a compound called iron sulfide. Mixture of iron (grey) and sulfur (yellow) powders. Compounds usually have different properties from the elements they contain.
Atoms of different elements can join together in chemical reactions to form compounds. For example hydrogen and oxygen are elements. They react together to form water, a compound. There are countless different ways for the elements to join together, and millions of compounds are known. The atoms in a compound are chemically joined together by strong forces called bonds. You can only separate the elements in a compound using another chemical reaction. Separation methods like filtration and distillation will not do this. Compounds form when atoms join together in a chemical reaction. 1  Page. 2  1. 3  2
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Compounds are formed from simpler substances by chemical reaction. Some compounds can be formed directly from their constituent elements, e.g., water from hydrogen and oxygen: 2H2 + O2 → 2H2O. 
When elements react, their atoms join with other atoms to form compounds [compound: A compound is a substance formed by the chemical union (involving bond formation) of two or more elements. ] . Chemical bonds form when this happens, which involves atoms transferring or sharing electrons. When elements react together to form compounds their atoms join to other atoms using chemical bonds. For example, iron and sulfur react together to form a compound called iron sulfide. Mixture of iron (grey) and sulfur (yellow) powders. Compounds usually have different properties from the elements they contain.
A chemical compound is a chemical formed from atoms of different chemical elements. The different atoms are joined by chemical bonds. The elements stick together so strongly that the compound behaves like one substance. The chemical that is made depends upon what atoms it is made of and how they are joined together. 
A chemical substance is a form of matter that has constant chemical composition and characteristic properties. It cannot be separated into components by physical separation methods, i.e., without breaking chemical bonds. Chemical substances can be chemical elements, chemical compounds, ions or alloys. A chemical compound can be either atoms bonded together in molecules or crystals in which atoms, molecules or ions form a crystalline lattice. Compounds based primarily on carbon and hydrogen atoms are called organic compounds, and all others are called inorganic compounds.
The formation of compounds. Most elements form compounds. For example: A reaction between sodium and chlorine gives the compound sodium chloride (salt) quite readily. The noble gases do not usually form compounds. They are different from other elements, since their atoms are described as stable or unreactive. 
A chemical formula is a way of expressing information about the proportions of atoms that constitute a particular chemical compound, using the standard abbreviations for the chemical elements, and subscripts to indicate the number of atoms involved. A chemical element bonded to an identical chemical element is not a chemical compound since only one element, not two different elements, is involved. Examples are the diatomic molecule hydrogen (H 2) and the polyatomic molecule sulfur (S 8)