Examples of opiate agonists include methadone and LAAM. These synthetic opiates help prevent cravings and withdrawal but do not produce a high or feelings of euphoria. An opiate antagonist is a drug that replaces opiate agonists at the receptor sites. Methadone is the most widely known and most common of opiate agonists used to treat opioid dependence. It decreases drug cravings and has helped many patients wean off opiates. It is dispensed in a licensed methadone maintenance clinic where patients must go to receive their dose.
Opiates are a group of drugs that are used for treating pain. They are derived from opium which comes from the poppy plant. Opiates go by a variety of names including opiates, opioids, and narcotics. The term opiates is sometimes used for close relatives of opium such as codeine, morphine and heroin, while the term opioids is used for the entire class of drugs including synthetic opiates such as Oxycontin. But the most commonly used term is opiates.
Examples of Opiate Agonists. Methadone is the most widely known and most common of opiate agonists used to treat opioid dependence. It decreases drug cravings and has helped many patients wean off opiates. It is dispensed in a licensed methadone maintenance clinic where patients must go to receive their dose.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. An opiate is any substance that comes from opium, and the opium poppy. heroin, morphine, codeine, hydrocodone(vicodin), oxycodone(oxycontin,percocet), fentanyl, tramadol. They are all opiates and narcotic analgesics (painkillers.). An opiate is any drug derived from the seeds of opium poppies, such as opium or heroine. However, there are lots of synthetic drugs with similar effects which are also conside … red opiates, such as oxy-cotton and percasettes.   PS. please forgive my spelling.
Opioids are synthetic narcotics that resemble natural opiates like morphine and codeine. Opioids provide pain relief by binding to or affecting the body's opiate receptors. Some examples of well-known opioids include: hydrocodone, oxycodone, fentynal and methadone. 
An opiate is any substance that comes from opium, and the opium  poppy. heroin, morphine, codeine, hydrocodone(vicodin),  oxycodone(oxycontin,percocet), fentanyl, tramadol. … They are all  opiates and narcotic analgesics (painkillers.). 60 people found this useful. some examples of opiates are: vicodin, percocet, oxycontin, loritabs, codiene, morphine, methadone, dilaudeds, narco, ms contin,
Opioids are used to treat moderate to severe pain that may not respond well to other pain medications. Some types of opioid drugs include: 1  codeine (only available in generic form). 2  fentanyl (Actiq, Duragesic, Fentora). 3  hydrocodone (Hysingla ER, Zohydro ER). 4  hydrocodone /acetaminophen (Lorcet, Lortab, Norco, Vicodin). 
Opiate drugs are those that are derived, either naturally or synthetically, from the opium plant. There are opiate drugs that are illegal, such as heroin, and others that are legally available with a prescription. Opiates are often prescribed to treat pain but many are also effective in treating coughs. 