A local anesthetic drug is given in the epidural space of the spine, which numbs the nerves from the uterus and birth canal. When the nerve impulses are blocked, there is decreased feeling in the lower half of the body. With the numbing effect, the labor contractions of birth are barely felt. Labor contractions may slow down after an epidural, so the medication Pitocin is used to stimulate contractions. Although minimal amounts of medication are used, an epidural (or a decrease in mother’s blood pressure) may cause the baby’s heart rate to decrease.
Epidural Steroid Injections Control Inflammation. Epidural injections are often used to treat radicular pain, also called sciatica, which is pain that radiates from the site of a pinched nerve in the low back to the area of the body aligned with that nerve, such as the back of the leg or into the foot. A typical immune response is the body generating white blood cells and chemicals to protect it against infection and foreign substances such as bacteria and viruses. Inhibiting the immune response with an epidural steroid injection can reduce the pain associated with i
34,191 pages on this wiki. The epidural space (sometimes called the extradural space) is a part of the human spine inside the spinal canal separated from the spinal cord and its surrounding cerebrospinal fluid by the dura mater. The epidural space is also of clinical interest since its cranial part contains vessels (e.g. the middle meningeal artery) susceptible to lesions after head traumas, causing a potentially lethal (if not treated immediately) collection of blood called an extradural or epidural hematoma.
Sometimes additional fluid (local anesthetic and/or a normal saline solution) is used to help 'flush out' inflammatory mediators from around the area that may be a source of pain. The epidural space encircles the dural sac and is filled with fat and small blood vessels. The dural sac surrounds the spinal cord, nerve roots, and cerebrospinal fluid (the fluid that the nerve roots are bathed in). A typical immune response is the body generating white blood cells and chemicals to protect it against infection and foreign substances such as bacteria and viruses. Inhibiting the immune response with an epidural steroid injection can reduce the pain associated with inflammation.
The epidural space is the space outside the tough membrane called the dura mater (sometimes called the dura), and within the spinal canal, which is formed by the surrounding vertebrae. Adherent to the inside of the dura is a much thinner and more fragile membrane, the arachnoid mater. The epidural space is also of clinical interest since its cranial part contains vessels (e.g. the middle meningeal artery) susceptible to lesions after head traumas, causing a potentially lethal (if not treated immediately) collection of blood called an extradural or epidural hematoma.
Epidural steroid injections (ESIs) are a common treatment option for many forms of low back pain and leg pain. They have been used for low back problems since 1952 and are still an integral part of the non-surgical management of sciatica and low back pain. 
A cervical epidural steroid injection delivers steroids into the epidural space surrounding spinal nerve roots to help alleviate pain in the upper spine/neck. A Spine-health.com Peer Reviewed Article. A typical immune response is the body generating white blood cells and chemicals to protect it against infection and foreign substances such as bacteria and viruses. Inhibiting the immune response with an epidural steroid injection can reduce the pain associated with inflammation.
Epidural administration (from Ancient Greek ἐπί, on, upon + dura mater) is a medical route of administration in which a drug or contrast agent is injected into the epidural space of the spinal cord. Techniques such as epidural analgesia and epidural anaesthesia employ this route of administration. The epidural space is the space inside the bony spinal canal but just outside the dura mater (dura). In contact with the inner surface of the dura is another membrane called the arachnoid mater (arachnoid).
Inside the arachnoid is the subarachnoid space, which contains the cerebrospinal fluid, and the spinal cord. In the spine, the epidural space contains loose fatty tissue, and a network of large, thin-walled blood vessels called the epidural venous plexus. The upper limit of the epidural space is the foramen magnum, which is the point where the spinal cord enters the base of the skull. The epidural space is also of clinical interest since its cranial part contains vessels (e.g. the middle meningeal artery) susceptible to lesions after head traumas, causing a potentially lethal (if not treated immediately) collection of blood called an extradural or epidural hematoma.