Mono (also termed mononucleosis or infectious mononucleosis) is a disease caused by the Epstein-Barr virus (EBV). Children are commonly infected with EBV and show few or no symptoms. Older individuals, teenagers, and adults may show symptoms when infected. Mono is contagious from person to person, especially via an infected person's saliva. Other transmission methods include blood, semen, blood transfusions, and organ transplants. Unfortunately, EBV can also be spread by contact with objects like toothbrushes or eating utensils that are contaminated with EBV
Infectious mononucleosis, also called “mono,” is a contagious disease. Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) is the most common cause of infectious mononucleosis, but other viruses can also cause this disease. It is common among teenagers and young adults, especially college students. At least 25% of teenagers and young adults who get infected with EBV will develop infectious mononucleosis. EBV is the most common cause of infectious mononucleosis, but other viruses can cause this disease. Typically, these viruses spread most commonly through bodily fluids, especially saliva. However, these viruses can also spread through blood and semen during sexual contact, blood transfusions, and organ transplantation
Infectious mononucleosis, mono, kissing disease, and glandular fever are all terms popularly used for the very common infection caused by the Epstein-Barr virus (EBV). The characteristic symptoms of infection with EBV include fever, fatigue, malaise, and sore throat. Infectious mononucleosis (mono) facts. 1  Infectious mononucleosis (mono) is a contagious illness
Contagious and incubation period. 1  You can pass the Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) to others for several weeks or months during and after the time you are first infected with EBV. 2  There is a small risk of spreading EBV through blood products. 3  It takes 4 to 6 weeks for symptoms to develop after you come in contact with EBV. The Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) can be found in saliva and mucus (and sometimes tears). EBV is not spread by casual contact. You can live in the same house with a person who has mono and never become infected with the virus. But a person who has a weakened immune system may be at higher risk for mono.
A. Infectious mononucleosis or “mono” is caused by Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), a member of the herpes virus family. It’s spread during close physical contact, mostly through transmission of saliva
The Epstein-Barr Virus is a member of the Herpes family of viruses. The typical presentation of mono is in a teenager who develops a severe sore throat and fever. Keep in mind that the usual office blood test for mono, the “mono spot” test, is often negative until up to 10 days of symptoms. Other than kissing you can spread mono by sharing eating or drinking utensils or by touching something contaminated by mono and then putting your hand in your mouth. Also limiting spread is the fact that many infants and young children contact mono as an asymptomatic minor illness and so already have immunity.
The short answer is only moderately contagious. Unlike many common illnesses infectious mononucleosis (mono) is spread by ingesting the causative Epstein Barr Virus (EBV) shed in another person’s saliva, hence the “kissing disease” nickname. Other than kissing you can spread mono by sharing eating or drinking utensils or by touching something contaminated by mono and then putting your hand in your mouth. Also limiting spread is the fact that many infants and young children contact mono as an asymptomatic minor illness and so already have immunity.
Infectious mononucleosis, or mono, occurs when an individual is infected with the Epstein-Barr virus, a type of human herpes virus. But not everyone who is infected develops mono. Another herpes virus, known as cytomegalovirus, can also cause mono-like symptoms. 