Manitoba Geography. Known by sportsmen as the Province of Lakes, Manitoba is mostly flat land, with some hills and small mountains southwest. The Duck Mountains include Manitoba's highest point, Baldy Mountain, 831 m (2,727 ft.). Manitoba is blanketed by rivers and hundreds of lakes, especially central and south. At 24,514 sq km (9,465 sq mi) Lake Winnipeg is the fifth-largest lake in Canada, larger in fact than Lake Ontario of Great Lakes fame. Additional lakes of size include Cedar, Manitoba, Nueltin, Southern Indian and Winnipegosis
Manitoba: A Rich History. Situated between Saskatchewan on the west and Ontario on the east, Manitoba lies in the middle of Canada and is the eastern-most prairie province. The name “Manitoba” is thought to have come from the Native Cree word manito-wapow, meaning strait of the spirit..
About the Province of Manitoba. Manitoba, a prairie province in the heart of Canada, is called the Land of 100,000 Lakes.. Manitoba has a diversified economy, led by manufacturing, then agriculture, hydroelectricity and mining. Location of Manitoba. Manitoba is the easternmost prairie province in Canada and is at the geographical centre of Canada. The province lies between Saskatchewan on the west and Ontario on the east, and between Nunavut on the north and the states of Minnesota and North Dakota on the south. See maps of Manitoba.
Manitoba is bordered by the provinces of Ontario to the east and Saskatchewan to the west, the territory of Nunavut to the north, and the US states of North Dakota and Minnesota to the south. It adjoins Hudson Bay to the northeast, and is the only prairie province to have a saltwater coastline. Manitoba's major lakes are Lake Manitoba, Lake Winnipegosis, and Lake Winnipeg, the tenth-largest freshwater lake in the world. Some traditional Native lands and boreal forest on the east side of Lake Winnipeg are a proposed UNESCO World Heritage Site.
With countless lakes and rivers spread across a beautiful Canadian landscape, Manitoba is what’s known as a fishing paradise. The province is filled with a wide variety of exciting fish, including pike, walleye, rainbow trout and huge catfish. 
The province has a saltwater coastline bordering Hudson Bay and contains over 110,000 lakes, covering approximately 15.6 percent or 101,593 square kilometres (39,225 sq mi) of its surface area. Manitoba's major lakes are Lake Manitoba, Lake Winnipegosis, and Lake Winnipeg, the tenth-largest freshwater lake in the world. Some traditional Native lands and boreal forest on the east side of Lake Winnipeg are a proposed UNESCO World Heritage Site.
Manitoba, with the lakes counting for 15.6% of the province's total area. The three largest lakes are Lake WInnipegois, Lake Winnipeg and Lake Manitoba. 
Sometimes referred to as the “keystone” province because of its shape, Manitoba is located in the heart of Canada. It is bounded by Nunavut and Hudson Bay to the north, Ontario to the east, the United States to the south and Saskatchewan to the west. Prior to the Manitoba Act of 1870, the province had its beginnings as the Red River Colony at the juncture of the Red and Assiniboine rivers. Oil deposits in Manitoba are located in the southwest corner of the province as well as in the Hudson Bay Lowlands. Oil production is a rapidly growing industry in Manitoba. Between 2004 and 2013, for example, it grew by 381 per cent.