The U.S. Congress is bicameral legislature, because it is a two-house legislature; Senate and the House of Representatives. One reason a bicameral legislature was needed was because of an ongoing debate about representation during the Philadelphia (Constitutional) Convention in 1787. Large and smal … l states had prolonged debates regarding how to represent each of the states' needs in Congress.
Enjoy world travel. == Answer == Bicameral as in two bodies. The House of Representatives and the Senate. The House of Representatives contains representatives of each state based on population, and the Senate has two senators from each state. 
The Congress of the United States is the legislative, or lawmaking, branch of the federal government. It is a bicameral legislature, which means that it is made up of two chambers, or houses. They are the House of Representatives and the Senate. The U.S. Constitution gives the two houses similar powers.
The Constitution created a bicameral national legislature—that is, a Congress composed of two separate chambers, the Senate and the House of Representatives. The Senate, sometimes called the upper house, is smaller (currently 100 seats) and its members serve longer terms (six years). Each state, no matter how large or small, has equal representation (two seats each) in the Senate. The House of Representatives, a.k.a. the lower house, is much larger (currently 435 seats) and its members serve much shorter terms (two years).
A congress to be bicameral means there are two legislative chambers. In Latin, bi means two and camera means chamber. This bicameral congress theory is also implemented because there is a need for honesty and balance in a certain political system. A unicameral legislature might be bias and can cause monopoly. Having two houses would mean having a sense of stability because there is a group that checks and balances the system. Bicameral congress also prevents too much power of a certain group
Bicameral structure of congress in the US is divided into two: the senate and the House of Representatives. In this system, each state is allowed to have two senators and the House of Representatives will depend on the proportion of the state population and the representatives for each state. This bicameral congress theory is also implemented because there is a need for honesty and balance in a certain political system. A unicameral legislature might be bias and can cause monopoly. Having two houses would mean having a sense of stability because there is a group that checks and balances the system. Bicameral congress also prevents too much power of a certain group
Bicameral Legislative Structure. The founders established Congress as a bicameral legislatureCongress consists of two bodies: (1) the House of Representatives whose membership is based on proportional representation and (2) the Senate, whose membership is based on equal representation. as a check against tyranny. The bicameral structure of the US Congress was established by the founders to minimize the possibility of any one governmental body becoming too powerful. The House was meant to be the most democratic of the national institutions, as its members are subject to reelection every two years.
The United States Congress is the bicameral legislature of the federal government of the United States consisting of two houses: the Senate and the House of Representatives. The Congress meets in the Capitol in Washington, D.C. 
Confidence votes 18. Congress is bicameral because there are two houses or chambers. The Founding Fathers instituted the US Congress to be bicameral as a way of employing checks and balances to prevent tyranny. One reason a bicameral legislature was needed was because of an ongoing debate about representation during the Philadelphia (Constitutional) Convention in 1787. Large and smal … l states had prolonged debates regarding how to represent each of the states' needs in Congress.