Penicillium (/ˌpɛnɪˈsɪlɪəm/) is a genus of ascomycetous fungi of major importance in the natural environment as well as food and drug production. Some members of the genus produce penicillin, a molecule that is used as an antibiotic, which kills or stops the growth of certain kinds of bacteria inside the body. Some Penicillium species have shown potential for use in bioremediation because of their ability to break down a variety of xenobiotic compounds. Penicillium also prevents bacteria from affecting the body.
Aspergillus is a member of the Deuteromycetes fungi, which is a group with no known sexual state. With DNA evidence forthcoming, all members of the genus Aspergillus likely are closely related and should be considered members of the Ascomycota. Members of the genus possess the ability to grow where a high osmotic concentration (high sugar, salt, etc.) exists. Aspergillosis is the group of diseases caused by Aspergillus. The most common subtype among paranasal sinus infections associated with aspergillosis is A. fumigatus. The symptoms include fever, cough, chest pain, or breathlessness, which also occur in many other illnesses, so diagnosis can be difficult.
Penicillium is a member of the deuteromycetes, fungi with no known sexual state. Some species of Penicillium have an additional sexual state in the Ascomycota in the Eurotiales. This month's fungus page honors Veteran's Day, celebrated in November in the USA. 
Aspergillus was first catalogued in 1729 by the Italian priest and biologist Pier Antonio Micheli. Viewing the fungi under a microscope, Micheli was reminded of the shape of an aspergillum (holy water sprinkler), from Latin spargere (to sprinkle), and named the genus accordingly. Aspergillosis is the group of diseases caused by Aspergillus. The most common subtype among paranasal sinus infections associated with aspergillosis is A. fumigatus. The symptoms include fever, cough, chest pain, or breathlessness, which also occur in many other illnesses, so diagnosis can be difficult.
Penicillium is classified as a genus of: domain eukaryota, kingdom Fungi, division Ascomycota (order Eurotiales, class Eurotiomycetes, family Trichocomaceae). Some Penicillium species have shown potential for use in bioremediation because of their ability to break down a variety of xenobiotic compounds. Penicillium also prevents bacteria from affecting the body.
Penicillium is often reffered to as Deuteromycetes, or Fungi imperfecti. The name Penicillium comes from the word brush; this refers to the appearance of spores in Penicillium. One species, Penicillium chrysogenum 9' , is classified as a psychrotrophic microorganism. Bancerz et. al.
Aspergillus/Neosartorya and Penicillium molds belong to the Ascomycota, or sac fungi, phylum. Molds of the Mucor genus, known as slimy molds, belong to the Myxomycota phylum. Bread Mold Phyla. Bread molds belong to various phyla. Black bread mold and other species of the Rhizopus that occur on bread belong to the Zygomycota phylum, as do bread molds of the Rhizomucor genus.
The ability of these Penicillium species to grow on seeds and other stored foods depends on their propensity to thrive in low humidity and to colonize rapidly by aerial dispersion while the seeds are sufficiently moist. Some species have a blue color, commonly growing on old bread and giving it a blue fuzzy texture. Some Penicillium species have shown potential for use in bioremediation because of their ability to break down a variety of xenobiotic compounds. Penicillium also prevents bacteria from affecting the body.
The mold requires sugar and starch to grow. Commonly found on breads, this diverse and adaptable mold species also appears on a number of fruit species, birds nests, decaying litter and even sand. Many other common bread molds belong to the Penicillium or Epenicillium genus. Species of this genus are among the most common molds on all manner of hosts, including bread, soil, decaying vegetation and building materials. Bread Mold Phyla. Bread molds belong to various phyla. Black bread mold and other species of the Rhizopus that occur on bread belong to the Zygomycota phylum, as do bread molds of the Rhizomucor genus.
Penicillium. PENICILLIUM IN CULTURE. A genus of molds belonging to the Ascomycetes (sac fungi). They form the blue molds that grow on fruits, bread, and cheese. A number of species (P. chrysogenum, P. notatum) are the source of penicillin. Penicillium. a genus of mold-forming fungi that grow on stored feed and in growing plants. Some produce antibiotics, some can be opportunistic pathogens and some produce mycotoxins, including patulin.