Basal metabolic rate (BMR) is the minimal rate of energy expenditure per unit time by endothermic animals at rest. (McNab, B. K. 1997). On the Utility of Uniformity in the Definition of Basal Rate of Metabolism. Physiol. Zool. Vol.70; Metabolism refers to the processes that the body needs to function. Basal metabolic rate (BMR) affects the rate that a person burns calories and ultimately whether you maintain, gain, or lose weight. Your basal metabolic rate accounts for about 60 to 75% of the calories you burn every day.
Metabolic rate is a measure of how much food, or fat, is converted to energy in a day. Resting metabolic rate (RMR) is the measurement of how much food, or energy, is required to maintain basic body functions such as heartbeat, breathing, and maintenance of body heat while you are in a state of rest. That energy is expressed in calories per day. So an RMR measurement shows how many calories you burn at rest, doing nothing more than sitting in a chair. Effective Physician Weight Loss Consult. 1  Sets caloric requirements. 2  Motivates patients. 3  Unique and informative printout to aid teaching.
Metabolic rate, or metabolism, is the rate at which the body expends energy. This is also referred to as the caloric burn rate. Metabolic testing reveals how many calories your body burns at rest, giving you the data you need to plan a weight loss, gain, or maintenance plan designed to succeed. Energy expenditure can be divided into three groups of calories. The sum of all of these groups of calories is the total metabolic rate. 1  Resting Calories-Calories that are burned while the body is at rest.
Abstract. Details are given for the construction and use of an inexpensive metabolism chamber to measure oxygen consumption in a relatively large group of laboratory rodents in a brief time. Metabolic rates (MR) were measured regularly in male and female Sprague Dawley rats, 11–114 days old, and mice, 100 days old. 
Metabolic rate is a measure of how much food, or fat, is converted to energy in a day. Resting metabolic rate (RMR) is the measurement of how much food, or energy, is required to maintain basic body functions such as heartbeat, breathing, and maintenance of body heat while you are in a state of rest. 
The rate at which these processes occur is measured in calories per unit of time, and is most often given in calories per day. The term basal metabolic rate (BMR) is often confused and/or interchanged with RMR or resting energy expenditure (REE). By Mark P. Kelly, Ph.D. Unless you have been living on an island or mountaintop somewhere (or simply don’t watch television), you’ve undoubtedly seen numerous infomercials talking about resting metabolic rate (RMR) and how one exercise or another will increase it, causing body fat to just melt away.
How It's Measured. Measurement of BMR is more restrictive than RMR. Measuring BMR requires a clinical procedure that takes place in a hospital or laboratory and requires the subject to spend the night. BMR is taken first thing in the morning, after eight hours of sleep and a 12 hour fast while the subject is lying down. 
Staying alive is hard work, people! The amount of energy (in the form of calories) that the body needs to function while resting for 24 hours is known as the basal metabolic rate, or BMR. This number of calories reflects how much energy your body requires to support vital body functions if, hypothetically, you were resting in bed for an entire day. 
Resting Metabolic Rate (RMR) is a form of metabolism measurement that measures the amount of energy used by the bodies of animals in a relaxed, but not post-absorptive, state. RMR measurements require the animals be in a thermal neutral zone (or a preferred temperature range for bradymetabolic animals) and relaxed. This differs from basal metabolic rate measurements in that it does not require that animals meet the strict criteria necessary for a proper BMR measurement. The less strict criteria of RMR measurements makes them more applicable for many biological studies.