Seborrheic dermatitis (Fig. 1) is a common chronic, superficial inflammatory disease of the scalp, face (especially the eyebrows and nasolabial folds), ears, and central chest, affecting 2% to 5% of the population. Clinically, the disease is characterized by thin erythematous plaques, often with a fine, greasy scale.
As widespread, diffuse parenchymal liver disease progresses, there is loss of the hepatic vascular bed and an increase in fibrotic tissue scattered throughout the organ. If these anatomic changes progress beyond a certain point, there is, eventually, definite impairment of blood flow through the liver.
IgG4-related sclerosing disease, also known as IgG4–related systemic disease (IgG4-RSD), hyper-IgG4 disease and IgG4-related disease is an autoimmune disease in which inflammatory cells cause fibrosis, the deposition of connective tissue, in one or more organs.
1 Cholestatic liver disease is a condition that results from an impairment of bile formation or bile flow to the gallbladder and duodenum (first section of the small intestine). 1-3 The effects of cholestasis are profound and widespread, leading to worsening liver disease and systemic illness.
Abstract. The liver may be injured during the course of many systemic diseases. The mechanisms of injury can be broadly divided into four pathways: vascular, toxic, immune, and hormonal. Vascular obstruction may be an early event but is also the late common pathway from all mechanisms.
The liver may be injured during the course of many diseases that are systemic or predominantly involve other organs. In this setting, the mechanisms of liver injury can be broadly classified as vascular, toxic, immune, and hormonal, as summarized in Fig. 1.
The spectrum of liver disease in systemic lupus erythematosus. van Hoek B(1). Author information: (1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, University Hospital, Leiden, Netherlands. Patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) have a 25-50% chance of developing abnormal liver tests in their lifetime.
Intrahepatic vascular obstruction may occur with many systemic as well as intrahepatic diseases [21] . The mechanisms may involve thrombosis, ligation, trauma, embolization, tumour infiltration, congestive venous injury, or venous inflammation.