Ash trees are susceptible to ash tree borers and other pests and disease. Keep ash trees as healthy as possible through regular monitoring, pruning, fertilizing and watering. By following these steps, you can help prevent ash tree problems from starting. 
A lot of trouble and anxiety can be avoided by planting the appropriate tree in your yard to start with. Bad Tree Characteristics. All trees have good and bad characteristics. It is a rare tree that will satisfy your needs throughout its entire life span. A tree can outgrow its original purpose very quickly or grow into its intended purpose very slowly. Understanding this concept is the key to proper tree planting in your yard.
It was first found to be attacking and killing ash trees in Michigan in 2002. Bright green in color and about a half inch in length, the Emerald Ash Borer (EAB) only attacks ash trees and is a devastating and destructive pest that greatly affects the urban forest. The Emerald Ash Borer (Agrilus planipennis) is an invasive wood boring beetle from Asia that is predicted to infest all unprotected ash trees in the United States and Canada.
All of the native North American ash trees are highly susceptible to a new invasive species of beetle, the Emerald Ash Borer or EAB. Emerald ash borers destroy an ash tree's ability to store water and nutrients, killing the tree from the top down. The European Mountain Ash (Sorbus aucuparia) is not affected by the EAB infestation. A native of Europe and northern Asia, the European Mountain Ash is not related to the true ash tree although the leaves are similar in structure.
The culprit: the emerald ash borer, a beetle that entered the U.S. through Detroit in 2002 and quickly spread to Iowa, New York, Virginia and nearly every state between. The bug attacks all 22 species of North American ash and kills nearly every tree it infests. Then came the humans. 
Green Menace-Emerald Ash Borer Scientific name: Agrilus planipennis The adult emerald ash borer Homeland / Origin: This alien invader is from northern China and Korea. It can also be found in eastern Russia, Japan, and Mongolia. It isn't a major pest of ash trees in its native range, but it sure is trouble in the United States. Arrival date: Before 2002, the emerald ash borer (EAB) was never found outside of Asia. But, in 2002, it was identified in southeast Michigan. There are some ash trees that are not at risk, such as the mountain ash, but that's because they are not true ash trees. In Wisconsin, there are approximately 700 million ash trees in our forests, and about as many in our towns and cities.
The Emerald Ash Borer (Agrilus planipennis) is an invasive wood boring beetle from Asia that is predicted to infest all unprotected ash trees in the United States and Canada. It was first found to be attacking and killing ash trees in Michigan in 2002. Bright green in color and about a half inch in length, the Emerald Ash Borer (EAB) only attacks ash trees and is a devastating and destructive pest that greatly affects the urban forest. The European Mountain Ash (Sorbus aucuparia) is not affected by the EAB infestation. A native of Europe and northern Asia, the European Mountain Ash is not related to the true ash tree although the leaves are similar in structure.
Ash Trees. Ash trees are often planted in the home landscape because they are in good supply in local nurseries and grow quickly compared with oaks. However, ash trees often are damaged by fall and spring snowstorms. Repeated storm damage often causes misshapen trees. 
The emerald ash borer is a metallic green beetle that bores into ash trees feeding on tissues beneath the bark, ultimately killing the tree. It is not native to the United States and was first found in the U.S. near Detroit, Michigan in 2002. Emerald ash borer attacks all species of ash native to the United States as well as native white fringetree. The four species of ash native to North Carolina include white ash, green ash, Carolina ash, and pumpkin ash. Both healthy and unhealthy trees can be attacked.