ATP and creatine phosphate in the cell The correct sequence for the use of these energy sources by muscle cells when an individual starts exercising is A) 1,2,3. E) 3,1,2. The correct sequence of energy sources used by muscle cells during exercise is: 3,1,2. E) all of these During muscle contraction, ATP is required for the transport of calcium ions into the sarcoplasmic reticulum, but also for the release of cross-bridges, the formation of cross-bridges, and the active transport of Na+ and K+ ions.
Work your way through the steps of the design process, writing notes in your laboratory journal under a heading for each step. At design step 5, generate a list of materials and supplies that will be needed. Some materials are available in class, but you may bring in other items from home. In Activity 4.2.4, you learned that ATP is required for successful muscle contraction. Now you will zoom in on the sarcomere, the smallest unit of a muscle, and see exactly how ATP is used to make a muscle contract and relax. The sarcomere is made up of two important proteins, actin and myosin. You will investigate the movement of these two fibers in contraction as well as the role other ions, electric stimuli and body systems play in this process. Using your findings, you will design and build a 3D working model of muscle contraction
Creatine phosphate and ATP are both sources of energy for the  muscles. Creatine phosphate is found in vertebrate muscle, while  ATP can be found anywhere within the cell. As a curiosity, inside of the sarcoplasmic reticulum, calcium ions (Ca2+) bind to another protein called calcequesterin. They are needed also for processes intrinsic of excitable cells (aka neurons and muscle cells), such as the sodium-potassium pump (active transport).
Two of the important proteins are myosin, which forms the thick filament, and actin, which forms the thin filament. Myosin has a long, fibrous tail and a globular head, which binds to actin. The myosin head also binds to ATP, which is the source of energy for muscle movement. Myosin can only bind to actin when the binding sites on actin are exposed by calcium ions. Actin molecules are bound to the Z line, which forms the borders of the sarcomere. Other bands appear when the sarcomere is relaxed. A muscle fiber from a biceps muscle may contain 100,000 sarcomeres. The myofibrils of smooth muscle cells are not arranged into sarcomeres. 
1 A single action potential in a motor neuron is sufficient to produce an action potential in a skeletal-muscle fiber. 2  Table 11-2 summarizes the events leading to the contraction of a skeletal-muscle fiber. 3  MECHANICS OF SINGLE-FIBER CONTRACTION. 4  Contraction refers to the turning on of the cross-bridge cycle. 1 Muscle fibers form ATP by the transfer of phosphate from creatine phosphate to ADP, by oxidative phosphorylation of ADP in mitochondria, and by substrate-level phosphorylation of ADP in the glycolytic pathway. 2  At the beginning of exercise, muscle glycogen is the major fuel consumed.
The energy for the muscular contraction. The energy for the muscular contraction is provided by the conversion of adenosine triphosphate (ATP) into adenosine diphosphate(ADP) and inorganic phosphate, releasing energy. A enzyme myosin ATPase catalyse the reaction in the presence of Ca 2 + and Mg 2 + ions. 
A single action potential in a motor neuron is sufficient to produce an action potential in a skeletal-muscle fiber. Table 11-2 summarizes the events leading to the contraction of a skeletal-muscle fiber. 1 Muscle fibers form ATP by the transfer of phosphate from creatine phosphate to ADP, by oxidative phosphorylation of ADP in mitochondria, and by substrate-level phosphorylation of ADP in the glycolytic pathway. 2  At the beginning of exercise, muscle glycogen is the major fuel consumed.
Your muscles depend on metabolic energy systems such as the phosphagen system, glycolysis and the aerobic system to convert fuel sources into units of usable energy needed to produce locomotion of your skeletal muscles and to power varying durations of activity. Because this system is a cycle, it can act as the dominant fuel source for longer bouts of activity lasting from approximately 30 to 45 seconds to upwards of two to three minutes, such as the 200- or 400-meter sprint.
Focus on what happens at the level of the sarcomere. This theory of muscle contraction is often called the “sliding filament theory.” Find three legitimate sources of information that include diagrams, pictures or animations. Write the name of each site as well as the associated web address in your laboratory notebook. In Activity 4.2.4, you learned that ATP is required for successful muscle contraction. Now you will zoom in on the sarcomere, the smallest unit of a muscle, and see exactly how ATP is used to make a muscle contract and relax. The sarcomere is made up of two important proteins, actin and myosin. You will investigate the movement of these two fibers in contraction as well as the role other ions, electric stimuli and body systems play in this process. Using your findings, you will design and build a 3D working model of muscle contraction