Small cell lung cancer accounts for 10%–15% of all lung cancers. It usually starts in the bronchi in the centre of the lungs. Small cell lung cancer is the most aggressive of all types of lung cancer. In many cases, it has spread to other parts of the body by the time it is diagnosed. Small cell lung cancer is also known as oat cell carcinoma or small cell undifferentiated carcinoma. 1 Stage is the most important prognostic factor for small cell lung cancer. 2  Limited stage cancers have a much better prognosis than extensive stage cancers. 3  Most people with small cell lung cancer are diagnosed with extensive stage cancer because the cancer spreads early and quickly, before it causes symptoms.
Chemotherapy and Radiation Therapy. For people with small cell lung cancer, regardless of stage, chemotherapy is an essential part of treatment. Radiation treatment may be used as well depending on the stage of cancer. 
About Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer. Non-small cell lung cancer is a disease in which malignant (cancer) cells form in the tissues of the lung. The lungs are a pair of cone-shaped breathing organs in the chest. The lungs bring oxygen into the body as you breathe in. Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer. A group of lung cancers that are named for the kinds of cells found in the cancer and how the cells look under a microscope. The three main types of non-small cell lung cancer are squamous cell carcinoma, large cell carcinoma, and adenocarcinoma.
Background. Small cell lung cancer (SCLC), previously known as oat cell carcinoma, is considered distinct from other lung cancers, which are called non–small cell lung cancers (NSCLCs) because of their clinical and biologic characteristics. See the image below. 
Lung cancer types. There are two main types of lung cancer: small cell lung cancer (SCLC) and non-small lung cancer (NSCLC). Non-small cell and small cell lung cancers are classified according to cell size and type. NSCLC accounts for nearly nine out of every 10 cases. Small cell lung cancer. Small cell lung cancer, which is often referred to as oat cell lung cancer because the cells resemble oats under the microscope, begins in the lung tissue. Unlike most non-small cell lung cancer, it often spreads quickly.
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer. Non-small cell lung cancer accounts for about 85 percent of lung cancers. Among them are these types of tumors: 1  Adenocarcinoma is the most common form of lung cancer in the United States among both men and women. Stages of Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer. Stage I: The cancer is located only in the lungs and has not spread to any lymph nodes. Stage II: The cancer is in the lung and nearby lymph nodes. Stage III: Cancer is found in the lung and in the lymph nodes in the middle of the chest, also described as locally advanced disease.
Small-Cell Lung Cancer Overview. When cells of the lung start to undergo a denerative transformation in appearance and start growing rapidly in an uncontrolled manner, the condition is called lung cancer. Lung cancer can affect any part of the lung. 
Select A Cancer Type. Small cell lung cancer is also called oat cell cancer. About 10%-15% of lung cancers are small cell lung cancers. This type of lung cancer tends to spread quickly.