In general, a species is a group of similar organisms that can interbreed and produce fertile offspring. More specifically, species can be defined as a group that has similar … morphology, DNA, geographic distribution, and occupies the same ecological niche. A python is a snake that can wrap around living animals and suffocate them by squeezing the life out of them. Then after the python is done killing it's food, it swallows the … animal whole.
The Burmese python is one of the largest snakes in the world. Adult Burmese pythons caught in Florida average between 1.8 m (6 ft) and 2.7 m (9 ft); the largest Burmese captured in Florida measured over 5 m (17 ft) in length. Typical Burmese pythons are tan in color with dark blotches along the back and sides. 
View full size image. There are more than 3,000 species of snakes in the world and there is at least one type of snake on every continent except Antarctica. While the snake has a bad rap as a pest, snakes can often be quite helpful and even a fun pet. Size. With so many different species, there are snakes of many different sizes. The world's smallest snake, according to National Geographic, is the thread snake, which grows to only about 3.9 inches (10 centimeters) long. It looks much like an earthworm.
Python, from the Greek word (πύθων/πύθωνας), is a genus of nonvenomous pythons found in Africa and Asia. Currently, 12 species are recognised. The United States Department of Agriculture reports that only Python molurus bivittatus is an invasive species in the United States. More recent data suggests that these pythons would not withstand winter climates north of Florida, contradicting previous research suggesting a more significant geographic potential range.
In the Western world, some snakes (especially docile species such as the ball python and corn snake) are kept as pets. To meet this demand a captive breeding industry has developed. Snakes bred in captivity tend to make better pets and are considered preferable to wild caught specimens. Snakes are elongated, legless, carnivorous reptiles of the suborder Serpentes that can be distinguished from legless lizards by their lack of eyelids and external ears. Like all squamates, snakes are ectothermic, amniote vertebrates covered in overlapping scales.
1 Snake Species. 2  With more then 3,000 species of snakes in the world there is plenty to learn about them. 3  Even though they all have many unique characteristics about them, there are quite a few similarities. 4  King Cobra. 5  The longest venomous snake in the world is the King Cobra. Snake Species Index. 1 
Ball Python. Ball pythons are one of the most popular non-native snakes. They can be confused with Burmese pythons but are rarely over 4 feet long. Ball pythons have a series of light-colored blotches (often described as dumbbell shapes) on a dark background. Sometimes there are dark spots within the light colored blotches. 
1 Burmese Python. 2  One of the larger species of snakes in the world is the Burmese Python. 3  It is ranked as the #6 largest of all snakes in the world. 4  Ball Python or Royal Python. 5  The Ball Python or Royal Python is one that many people are fascinated by. 6  This is a non venomous type of snake. Snake Species Index. 1  Snake Species. 2  With more then 3,000 species of snakes in the world there is plenty to learn about them. 3  Even though they all have many unique characteristics about them, there are quite a few similarities. 4  King Cobra. 5  The longest venomous snake in the world is the
Python Facts. Pythons are one of the largest snakes. Unlike many other snake species, pythons don’t produce venom-they are non-venomous snakes. Pythons live in the tropical areas of Africa and Asia. They can be found in rainforests, savannas and deserts. A lot of people keep them as pets. 