Scientists estimate that about one-fifth of the earth's land surface is desert. Deserts can be found on every continent except Europe. There are two different kinds: hot and dry (such as the Arabian and Sahara deserts) and cold and dry (such as Antarctica and the Gobi desert). 
One of the famous desert biomes out there is called Death Valley. It is located in the Mojave Desert which is in the United States. It spans through three states – Arizona, Nevada, and California. It is 25,000 square miles of sand as far as the eyes can see. The desert biome is one that is very hot and dry. They are found at the lower latitudes, between the Tropic of Cancer and the Tropic of Capricorn. Light winds occur often which evaporates any type of moisture that is typically going to develop in them.
Outside the U.S. hot, dry deserts are found in the Southern Asian realm, South and Central America, Ethiopia and Australia. Another type of desert is the coastal desert, for example, the Atacama Desert in Chile of South America. And then there are cold deserts. LOCATION: Although few animals and plants are adapted to the extremely dry desert life, the desert is a vital biome. The desert is important because it covers about a fifth of the earth's surface! There are both hot and cold deserts. Antarctica is the largest desert in the world, while the Sahara in Africa is the largest of the hot deserts. There are also deserts close to Santa Barbara, such as the Mojave the Colorado Desert which encompass parts of Southern California
Deserts cover more than one fifth of the Earth's land, and they are found on every continent. A place that receives less than 10 inches (25 centimeters) of rain per year is considered a desert. Deserts are part of a wider classification of regions called drylands.. 
Arid, and Semi-Arid Desert Arid deserts generally occur at low latitudes, and can be found in North-America, South-America, Africa, and Southern Asia. Most desert life forms have followed this train of evolution, with animals species being mostly active at night. Semi-arid deserts are found in North-America, Europe, Russia, and Northern Asia. Seasons are generally more defined than in the Arid desert, with low rainfalls during the winter.
Some deserts, however, are located on the west coasts of continents, such as the Namib in Africa, or the Atacama in Chile, forming coastal fog-deserts whose aridity is the result of cold oceanic currents. The deserts of the world occur in six global bio-geographical realms: Afrotropic deserts are found in the sub-Saharan part of Africa, and in the southern fringe of the Arabian Peninsula. Pressures on the ecosystem from humans are relatively high, especially in the Horn of Africa and Madagascar. 
Although most deserts, such as the Sahara of North Africa and the deserts of the southwestern U.S., Mexico, and Australia, occur at low latitudes, another kind of desert, cold deserts, occur in the basin and range area of Utah and Nevada and in parts of western Asia. 
The desert biome is located between 15 degrees and 30 degrees latitude in both northern and southern hemispheres. The desert biome can be found in North America, North Africa, west and central Asia, parts of Australia and the southwestern United States. Barrel Cactus: The Barrel cactus usually grows along desert washes, gravely slopes and beneath desert canyon walls in all of the hot desert of North America from the Mojave, Sonoran and Chihuahuan deserts of southern California, southern Arizona west to Texas and south into Baja, California and central Mexico.