The neurons of the cardiac ganglia, which represent parasympathetic neurons of the second order, migrate directly from the neural crest into the heart. Somewhat later, the axons of the first order nerves obtain access to the heart via the vagus nerve. The parasympathetic innervation slows the heartbeat.
Development of the Cardiac Nervous System. The heart is innervated by sympathetic, parasympathetic, and sensory nerves derived from neural crest cells. Trunk neural crest cells migrate and form sympathetic ganglia by midgestation, subsequently proliferating and differentiating into mature neurons.
The heart is innervated by vagal and sympathetic fibers. The right vagus nerve primarily innervates the SA node, whereas the left vagus innervates the AV node; however, there can be significant overlap in the anatomical distribution.
Atrial muscle is also innervated by vagal efferents, whereas the ventricular myocardium is only sparsely innervated by vagal efferents. Sympathetic efferent nerves are present throughout the atria (especially in the SA node) and ventricles, including the conduction system of the heart.
Overview. The heart is innervated by parasympathetic and sympathetic fibers. The medulla is the primary site in the brain for regulating sympathetic and parasympathetic outflow to the heart and blood vessels.
The parasympathetic nervous system mainly innervates the SA and AV nodes in the heart. Atrial muscle is also innervated by vagal efferents, whereas the ventricular myocardium is only sparsely innervated by vagal efferents.
The heart is innervated by vagal and sympathetic fibers. The right  vagus nerve primarily innervates the SA node, whereas the left  vagus innervates the AV node; however, th … ere can be significant  overlap in the anatomical distribution.
The S-A node is innervated by vagal (parasympathetic) and sympathetic fibers. Sympathetic efferent nerves are present throughout the atria (especially in the S-A node) and ventricles, and in the conduction system of the heart. Sympathetic nerves also travel to most arteries & veins.