The Cow-Calf Operation. They usually spend the first six months of their lives in a real pasture with their mothers, enjoying a diet of real grass which nature designed them to eat and digest. In the scheme of industrial beef production, the ranch is called a cow-calf operation. It is an operation since the calf wasn't conceived the way nature intended. It was the product of artificial insemination; mother and father never got to look each other in the eye. 
Onion Creek Ranch™ WILL CONTINUE breeding superior meat goat genetics and holding GoatCamp™ annually but we are ready for another move. The current ranch property is for sale. On 271 acres in McCulloch County near Lohn north of Brady, Texas sits a breeders paradise. We coined the name Tennessee Meat Goat™ in early 1995 and trademarked it to describe those goats of the Myotonic breed developed at Onion Creek Ranch which are both heavily muscled and large framed.
“They have a lot of grass and they want to turn that into protein,” Mr. Brownback said. Accompanied by Kansas ranchers who produce so-called feed stock, or purebred bulls for other cattle farmers, the governor is visiting Russia and Kazakhstan this month. The same bulls that Mr. Stevenson could sell back home for $4,000 a head can fetch about $8,000 in cattle-deprived Russia, he said. Those prices are why, with a Russian partner, he has opened a breeding ranch south of Moscow, called Stevenson-Sputnik, which he seeded by importing 1,400 pregnant cows from Montana.
View of the Grant-Kohrs Ranch near Deer Lodge, Montana. A ranch is a type of farm and an area of landscape, including various structures, given primarily to the practice of ranching, the practice of raising grazing livestock such as cattle or sheep for meat or wool. The word most often applies to livestock-raising operations in Mexico, the Western United States and Canada, though there are ranches in other areas. People who own or operate a ranch are called ranchers, cattlemen, or stockgrowers. Ranching is also a method used to raise less common livestock such as elk, American bison or even ostrich, emu, and alpacas. Ranches generally consist of large areas, but may be of nearly any size
The meat is a delicacy renowned for its flavour, tenderness, and fatty, well-marbled texture. Kobe beef can be prepared as steak, sukiyaki, shabu shabu, sashimi, and teppanyaki. Kobe beef is also called Kobe niku (神戸肉, Kobe meat) , Kobe-gyu (神戸牛) or Kobe-ushi (神戸牛, Kobe cattle) in Japanese. Cattle were introduced in Japan in the second century as work animals used for rice cultivation. Because of Japan's difficult terrain and sparse arable land due in part to its mountainous topography, cattle were bred in small, isolated regions, yielding herds with unique qualities in their meat.
Kobe beef (神戸ビーフ, Kōbe bīfu) (KO-BEH) refers to beef from the Tajima strain of Wagyu cattle, raised in Japan 's Hyogo Prefecture according to rules as set out by the Kobe Beef Marketing and Distribution Promotion Association. Cattle were introduced in Japan in the second century as work animals used for rice cultivation. Because of Japan's difficult terrain and sparse arable land due in part to its mountainous topography, cattle were bred in small, isolated regions, yielding herds with unique qualities in their meat.
Cattle is a word to describe animals which are mammals and belong to the genus Bos. Within the general term of cattle are cows, bulls, oxen, heifers, steers, bullocks and calves. Cattle are the most common type of large domesticated hoofed animals. They are a prominent modern member of the subfamily Bovinae. Cattle are large grass-eating mammals with two-toed or cloven hooves and a four-chambered stomach. The word cattle is used for some wild animals as well as for domesticated cattle. Wild cattle include the Water Buffalo from South East Asia, the Musk Ox and Yak from Central Asia, the Bison of North America and Europe and the African Buffalo.
Grassfed beef is also called pasture-raised beef, pasture-grown or grass-finished beef. It is an artisanal slow food, crafted from cattle raised and finished on intensively managed high-quality pasture and hay, without grain of any kind. At Alderspring, we go a few steps further. Unlike some grass fed producers, our beef never ever see a feedlot and are truly free range. In addition, our grassfed beef is certified organic. And finally, Alderspring Ranch beef is raised by our family, on our own ranch
If they are dairy cows, then its called dairy farming. If they are for beef, then its called beef farming or, with extensive operations, ranching, especially in the USA and Canada. Beef farming is raising beef cattle for slaughter (meat), and dairy farming is raising dairy c … ows for milk. Beef cattle farming start at the cow-calf herd. A beef cow is bred to a bull to produce a calf. That calf is raised on his mother's milk by his mother until he's around half a year or so old.