Restore using recovery mode. If you've never synced with iTunes or set up Find My iPhone in iCloud, you'll need to use recovery mode to restore your device. This will erase the device and its passcode. 1  Connect your iOS device to your computer and open iTunes. Erase using Find my iPhone. If you set up Find My iPhone on your iOS device or Mac, you can use iCloud to erase and restore it. 1  From another device, go to icloud.com/find. 2  If prompted, sign in with your Apple ID. 3  Click All Devices at the top of your browser window
1 Tap Restrictions. 2  Tap Enable Restrictions and enter a passcode. 3  You'll need this passcode to change your settings or turn off Restrictions. 4  If you lose or forget your Restrictions passcode, you'll need to erase your device and then set it up as a new device to remove the passcode. Turn on Restrictions. 1  Tap Restrictions. 2  Tap Enable Restrictions and enter a passcode. 3
Simply install the iPhone Backup Extractor, open it and load your iTunes backup. To reset your PIN for your iOS 5 or 6 backup, click on the top menu 'Utilities' and then on 'Reset Restrictions PIN'. If you have an iOS 7 or 8 iTunes backup, from the 'Utilities' menu, select 'Recover Restrictions PIN'. Use the instructions below to reset the Restrictions PIN to '1234' on either an iPad or an iPhone running iOS 5, 6 or 7. If you decided to reset your passcode using this method, these are the steps you need to follow: 1  Take a backup with iTunes while your restrictions passcode is enabled-ensure it's not encrypted.
Level 10 (94,020 points). The restrictions passcode is stored with the iPhone backup, the only way to get rid of it, if you can't remember it, is to restore as a new phone and not from your iPhone backup. You will lose ALL data on your phone. Level 4 (2,910 points). Ask your kids-they will have hacked their way around it already. I set restrictions on my iphone to disable in-app purchases so that my children don't rack up a bill on my account. Unfortunately I've forgotten the password and now I need an in-app purchase for CoPilot navigation app.
5. once you do a couple of choices will come up play sound lost mode and erase iphone click on the erase iphone. and it will begin to whip out your iphone. 6. once i was done i connected it back into my itunes and restored from my last backup. i was then able to get into my phone and reset my passcode. This is the solution to reset a device with a lost restriction password, which seems to be your end goal. 1. sign into icloud.com 2. once you are signed in click on find my iphone tab 3. click all devices on top of the page 4. click on the device you lost your passcode to.
Without the four-digit passcode restrictions can't be changed. If you have forgotten your restrictions passcode you must restore your iPhone using iTunes to reset the passcode. When asked, do not restore the iPhone from backup, otherwise the old passcode you don't know will be enabled. 
1 If you lose or forget your Restrictions passcode, you'll need to erase your device and then set it up as a new device to remove the passcode. 2  Restoring the device won't remove the passcode. Turn on Restrictions. 1  Tap Restrictions. 2  Tap Enable Restrictions and enter a passcode. 3 
Unfortunately, there is no easy way to recover or reset your iPhone’s Restrictions Passcode. At least none that I could find documented by Apple. Restoring to a previous backup will not get rid of the passcode and the only other option would be to setup iPhone as a new device. 