The sheer number of breeds that are classified as medium sized has helped them become the most popular size of dog in the world. Medium breeds are also popular because unlike small breeds, they are less prone to injury and fearfulness, and they lack the sheer bulk and the various health concerns of large breeds.
The Medio Portuguese Podengos is a medium-small sized breed that weighs between 35 and 45 pounds. They are intelligent, lively dogs. They are also very brave and this makes them a good watch dog. Their sweet disposition make them excellent family companions.
Medium Dog Breeds. There's nothing average about medium-sized dogs. These pups are not too big, nor too small, and include a wide variety of breeds. Dogs that fall into the medium dog breed category include the following.
Dogs that can be considered of medium size can be found in most of the AKC’s seven groups. Whether it’s the energetic Shetland Sheepdog, the sporty spaniels, or the laid back Bulldog, there is a range of temperament and appearance within this size category.
The Belgian Laekenois is a medium sized dog that weighs between 50 and 65 pounds. The rarest of the four Belgian Shepherd dogs, the Belgian Laekenois is a sturdy, well-proportioned medium-sized dog with a rough wire coat that easily distinguishes it. This breed was actually used as army dogs in the World Wars.
By MeLoveMyPet on in Medium Dog Breeds. There are big dogs and small dogs, and of course, there are the medium dogs. Dogs classified as medium are just about in the middle in terms of size and weight, defined to be between 13 to 24 inches, and around 20 to 60 pounds. There are many dog breeds that are medium sized, and these dogs are as perfect companions as any.
They can be laid back or energetic, they can be guard dogs or family companions, and they vary in term of looks, temperament and personality. Because there is such a variance, the only thing that medium sized dogs truly have in common is their weight – they range 40 and 60 pounds.
The Samoyed is a medium sized breed of dog that weighs anywhere from 35 and 60 pounds (females at the low end, males at the high end). Samoyeds are a very gentle and peaceful breed; too peaceful, in fact, that they’re not very reliable as watch dogs, although they let out a bark when a stranger approaches.