The liver is a gland and plays a major role in metabolism with numerous functions in the human body, including regulation of glycogen storage, decomposition of red blood cells, plasma protein synthesis, hormone production, and detoxification. The liver is a reddish brown wedge-shaped organ with four lobes of unequal size and shape. A human liver normally weighs 1.44–1.66 kg (3.2–3.7 lb). It is both the largest internal organ and the largest gland in the human body.
The liver is one of the vital organs of the body, responsible for hundreds of chemical actions that the body needs to survive. It is also a gland because it secretes chemicals that are used by other parts of the body. For these reasons the liver is both an organ and a gland. The liver is the largest internal organ of the body and is located in the right upper quadrant of the abdomen, beneath the diaphragm and is protected by the lower right ribs. It also extends across the midline toward the left upper quadrant of the abdomen.
The pancreas is a glandular organ in the upper abdomen, but really it serves as two glands in one: a digestive exocrine gland and a hormone-producing endocrine gland. Functioning as an exocrine gland, the pancreas excretes enzymes to break down the proteins, lipids, carbohydrates, and nucleic acids in food. The pancreas is classified as a heterocrine gland because it contains both endocrine and exocrine glandular tissue. The exocrine tissue makes up about 99% of the pancreas by weight while endocrine tissue makes up the other 1%. The exocrine tissue is arranged into many small masses known as acini.
It is the largest internal organ and also a gland. It is considered a gland because it makes and secretes bile. Glands are organs or parts of organs that make and secrete substances. And bile is a fluid that both aids in digestion and transports fats as well as waste products into the intestine. So that's why it is defined as a gland. 
endocrine (EN-doh-krin) gland: a group of cells that makes hormones and sends them into the blood to have effects on other cells. goiter (GOY-ter): an enlarged thyroid. hormone (HOR-mohn): a chemical made in an endocrine gland in one part of the body. Having thyroid hormone levels that are too high (overactive thyroid gland). Sometimes the thyroid gland makes too much thyroid hormone, which is called hyperthyroidism. Think of your body as a car and your thyroid as the engine. An overactive thyroid makes your body idle too fast.
Liver. The liver is the body’s largest gland. It is a vital organ that supports nearly every other organ in the body in some facet. Without a healthy liver, a person cannot survive. The liver is the largest glandular organ in the body and performs multiple critical functions to keep the body pure of toxins and harmful substances.
1 The adrenal cortex—the outer part of the gland—produces hormones that are vital to life, such as cortisol (which helps regulate metabolism and helps your body respond to stress) and aldosterone (which helps control blood pressure). 
INTRODUCTION TO LIVER. The liver is one of the largest, most important, and least appreciated organs in the body. The bulk of the liver consists of hepatocytes, which are epithelial cells with a unique configuration. The liver is essentially an exocrine gland, secreting bile into the intestine. But, the liver is also -- and significantly so -- an endocrine gland and a blood filter.
The thyroid (THY-royd) gland, a small butterfly-shaped gland in the front of your neck, makes thyroid hormones. Thyroid hormones travel from the thyroid gland through the blood to all parts of the body, where they do their work. Having thyroid hormone levels that are too high (overactive thyroid gland). Sometimes the thyroid gland makes too much thyroid hormone, which is called hyperthyroidism. Think of your body as a car and your thyroid as the engine. An overactive thyroid makes your body idle too fast.
The liver is considered a gland—an organ that secretes chemicals—because it produces bile, a substance needed to digest fats. Bile’s salts break up fat into smaller pieces so it can be absorbed more easily in the small intestine. In addition to producing bile, the liver: The liver is the largest glandular organ in the body and performs multiple critical functions to keep the body pure of toxins and harmful substances.