London plane in NMSU. The London plane is a large deciduous tree growing 20–30 m (66–98 ft), exceptionally over 40 m (131 ft) tall, with a trunk up to 3 m (10 ft) or more in circumference. The bark is usually pale grey-green, smooth and exfoliating, or buff-brown and not exfoliating
The tree in the image above is of a tall London Plane that I found in the royal gardens of Aranjuez (Spain). I estimate that this tree is about 7 feet (2 meters) wide at the base and over 120 feet (35 meters) tall. It is a fine example of the fact that this tree can reach very large proportions. The London Plane tree (Platanus x hispanica (syn. x acerifolia) is a very common urban tree that is extensively planted in city parks, gardens and avenues.
The London Plane is of hybrid origin – it is the offspring of two different species, the American sycamore (Platanus occidentalis) and the Oriental plane (Platanus orientalis), and it is a tree that did not exist prior to European colonization of the new world. 
The London planetree is a widely planted street tree, and for good reason. Its attributes were discovered in London where the new hybrid first appeared around 1645. The tree was found to thrive in the sooty air and provide wonderful shade. History/Lore. The London planetree is believed to have resulted from a cross between the Oriental planetree and the American sycamore. While the exact details of the tree’s origin have been lost over time, it was discovered that this hybrid could tolerate the smoke and grime of London.
The London plane tree accounts for over half of our city's tree population. With such omnipresence it's easy to overlook just what a distinctive tree this is. The sight that catches at eye level and will be familiar to most people is its khaki camouflage-patterned bark. 
London Plane Tree, (Platanus x acerifolia). The London Plane tree is a hybrid of the American and Oriental Plane tree and is particularly well adapted to urban conditions. This handsome tree needs plenty of space to grow and is suitable for large properties only
Platanus × acerifolia, London plane, London planetree, or hybrid plane, is a tree in the genus Platanus. It is usually thought to be a hybrid of Platanus orientalis (oriental plane) and Platanus occidentalis (American sycamore). Some authorities think that it may be a cultivar of P. orientalis. The London plane is a large deciduous tree growing 20–30 m (66–98 ft), exceptionally over 40 m (131 ft) tall, with a trunk up to 3 m (10 ft) or more in circumference.
London Plane Tree Choices. Bloodgood is a popular variety of the London planetree. It is a hybrid of the American sycamore and Oriental planetree and is particularly well adapted to urban conditions. Somewhat smaller than the American sycamore, it has slightly smaller leaves and a more greenish tinge overall. The London Plane tree is a hybrid of the American and Oriental Plane tree and is particularly well adapted to urban conditions. This handsome tree needs plenty of space to grow and is suitable for large properties only
For many years after the London plane-tree was discovered in London, England, its origins were shrouded in mystery. It was originally thought that London plane-tree was a natural variety of Oriental sycamore, Platanus orientalis, an introduced species from Asia, however it was never observed growing in the wild. TREE, BARK and TWIGS. London plane-tree is a large tree, to 21 - 30 m (70' - 100') or more, with a straight trunk and a large open crown. The bark has a distinctive camouflage pattern created as patches of green or brown outer bark flake off (exfoliate) to expose cream-coloured inner bark.