Fairfax Circuit Court and Records. The Fairfax Circuit Court serves the residents of Fairfax County and Fairfax City. The Fairfax Circuit Court (19th Judicial Circuit) is the trial court of general jurisdiction and is the largest trial court in Virginia, composed of fifteen full-time trial judges. It has authority to try a full range of cases, both civil and criminal, jury and non-jury
Send a written request, along with a self-addressed, stamped envelope to: Clerk of the Circuit Court, Public Service Division, 4110 Chain Bridge Road, Suite 116, Fairfax, VA 22030. Virginia and out-of-state clergy must be authorized by the Circuit Court prior to performing marriage ceremonies in Virginia. Overview Marriage licenses are issued by the Clerk of the Circuit Court. There are no residency requirements to obtain a marriage license in Virginia. A couple may go to any circuit court in Virginia to obtain this license.
The Fairfax County Courthouse at 4110 Chain Bridge Road, Fairfax, Virginia on the first floor in Suite 116. The fee is $30.00 payable by cash or credit card (Visa or MasterCard only with a 4% processing fee). The couple must appear before the Clerk together to obtain a license and be 18 years of age or older. Overview Marriage licenses are issued by the Clerk of the Circuit Court. There are no residency requirements to obtain a marriage license in Virginia. A couple may go to any circuit court in Virginia to obtain this license.
For traffic infractions, the general district court has jurisdiction; in Fairfax County, the Fairfax County traffic courts are located on the first floor. In some cases, you may need to go to a city court (discussed later). You may have to go to what is commonly referred to as, “Fairfax County Traffic Court,” (really, the Fairfax County General District Court), for a preliminary hearing. You may also have to go to the Circuit Court. DWI continuances must be signed by a Commonwealth Attorney (prosecutor).
Mail the request to: Clerk of the Circuit Court Attention: Marriage License Copies 4110 Chain Bridge Road, Suite 116 Fairfax, VA 22030 If the marriage occurred in the Commonwealth of Virginia, and the circuit court is unknown, the Division of Vital Records in Richmond can provide copies. Overview Marriage licenses are issued by the Clerk of the Circuit Court. There are no residency requirements to obtain a marriage license in Virginia. A couple may go to any circuit court in Virginia to obtain this license.
To obtain a certified copy of a marriage license, the license must have been issued by the Fairfax Circuit Court. The certified copy can be obtained either in person or by mail. To obtain a copy in person, go to the Public Service office on the first floor of the Fairfax County Courthouse, Suite 116. Overview Marriage licenses are issued by the Clerk of the Circuit Court. There are no residency requirements to obtain a marriage license in Virginia. A couple may go to any circuit court in Virginia to obtain this license.
Please check again later. Welcome to the Department of Tax Administration's Real Estate Assessment Information Site This site provides assessed values and physical characteristics extracted from the official assessment records for all residential and commercial properties in Fairfax County. 
Fairfax County, officially the County of Fairfax, is a county in the Commonwealth of Virginia. As of the 2010 census, the population was 1,081,726, in 2014, the population was estimated to be 1,118,883, making it the most populous jurisdiction in the Commonwealth of Virginia, with 13.6% of Virginia's population. Northern Virginia, including Fairfax County, is the third worst congested traffic area in the nation, in terms of percentage of congested roadways and time spent in traffic. Of the lane miles in the region, 44 percent are rated F or worst for congestion.