Reacting to public concern over violent juvenile crime, State legislatures have enacted punitive laws that are altering the legal response to serious juvenile crime and changing our juvenile justice system. Federal legislation will also affect the future direction of the juvenile justice system. 
The paper postulates that more severe santions do not have any significant effect on reducing crime because: 1  Research demonstrates that the general public tends to underestimate the severity of sanctions generally imposed and are often unaware of any enhanced sentencing structure. 
Download entire Modern Tough on Crime Movement chapter of Defending Justice (PDF, 1.6MB). Summary. The tough on crime movement refers to a set of policies that emphasize punishment as a primary, and often sole, response to crime. The authors document how the modern tough on crime movement was part of a larger effort to increase votes for the Republican Party, and more significantly, to redirect State policy away from social welfare toward social control.
The key is todevise a system that recognizes this while not appearing to.” –H.R. Haldeman, Nixon’s Chief of Staff The “tough on crime” movement refers to a set of policies that emphasize punishment as a pri-mary, and often sole, response to crime. That “success”promoted and legitimized several ideas behind the then-burgeoning “tough on crime” movement. Wilson’s other writing reveals the deeply conservative underpinnings of his theories on crime.
(3). Regardless of the cause, the following statistics show that getting tough on crime is not a successful policy. The charts below list each state in order of its crime rate and then lists its law-enforcement expenditures, prison population rate, poverty rate and high school dropout rate. Summary Hiring more police officers and throwing more people into prison does not reduce crime -- in fact, those states which pursue this strategy tend to have the highest crime rates. And this is true internationally as well; the nations with the toughest approach to crime have the most of it.
The women and men who see the consequences of the federal government’s “tough on crime” legislation firsthand say the bills are wrongheaded, and create a more dangerous work environment for them. 
MODERN TOUGH ON CRIME MOVEMENT. Section Objective. This section will provide a historical narrative of the rise of the modern Tough on Crime movement. It will explore the Right's role along with the cooperation of liberals and the mainstream media in promoting punitive state policies. The authors document how the modern tough on crime movement was part of a larger effort to increase votes for the Republican Party, and more significantly, to redirect State policy away from social welfare toward social control.
43 DEFENDING JUSTICE The Rise of the Modern “Tough On Crime” Movement SECTION OBJECTIVE This section will provide ahistorical narrative of therise of the modern “Toughon Crime” movement. That “success”promoted and legitimized several ideas behind the then-burgeoning “tough on crime” movement. Wilson’s other writing reveals the deeply conservative underpinnings of his theories on crime.
Myth: Getting tough on crime reduces crime. Fact: States with the toughest law enforcement have the most crime. Summary Hiring more police officers and throwing more people into prison does not reduce crime -- in fact, those states which pursue this strategy tend to have the highest crime rates. And this is true internationally as well; the nations with the toughest approach to crime have the most of it.