Enzyme Replacement Therapy has very effectively treated Gaucher Type I for the past 20+ years. ERT is also available for Fabry, certain types of Mucopolysaccharidosis (MPS) and Pompe. ERT for Niemann-Pick Types A & B is in clinical trials. 
Enzyme replacement therapy (ERT) is a medical treatment replacing an enzyme in patients in whom that particular enzyme is deficient or absent. Usually this is done by giving the patient an intravenous (IV) infusion containing the enzyme. Enzyme replacement therapy is currently available for some lysosomal diseases: Gaucher disease, Fabry disease, MPS I, MPS II (Hunter syndrome), MPS VI and Glycogen storage disease type II.
Abstract. The lysosomal storage diseases (LSDs) are a group of disorders heralding in a new era in the treatment of genetic diseases. Enzyme replacement therapy (ERT) moves the treatment of these disorders from symptomatic management to therapeutic interventions. ERT is not a cure for these disorders, but it can greatly modify or attenuate the phenotype. Treatment for LSDs is lifelong and the diseases affect multiple organ systems. 
Ad. Enzyme replacement therapy usually introduces approximately the same enzyme that is lacking in the body from the outside. For example, Gaucher's disease is caused by a deficiency of glucocerebrosidase, an enzyme which plays an important role in the body's metabolism. A second type of enzyme replacement therapy introduces enzymes that have become deficient for some other reason. Cystic fibrosis is caused by the body's failure to produce a particular protein that is crucial to the function of cell membranes.
NINDS scientists are working to determine the effects of enzyme replacement therapy in Gaucher's patients with neurological complications. Ceredase is manufactured by the Genzyme Corporation of Cambridge, Massachusetts, and was approved by the FDA in early April for treatment of Type I Gaucher's disease. 
Enzyme replacement therapy is used as a treatment for Gaucher's disease, Fabry disease, Glycogen storage disease type II, cystic fibrosis and others. Usually, fresh enzymes must be injected regularly for the therapy to work. A second type of enzyme replacement therapy introduces enzymes that have become deficient for some other reason. Cystic fibrosis is caused by the body's failure to produce a particular protein that is crucial to the function of cell membranes.
Enzyme replacement therapy does not affect the underlying genetic defect, but increases the concentration of enzyme in which the patient is deficient. ERT implies life-long treatments with regular and frequent infusions of enzyme (for example once or twice a month throughout the patient’s life). Answer. Enzyme Replacement Therapy (ERT) is a medical treatment replacing an enzyme in patients in whom that particular enzyme is deficient or absent. The replacement enzyme is referred to as a “recombinant” enzyme, produced through gene engineering
Enzyme replacement therapy is a relatively new type of treatment. As more is discovered about the genome and about the cellular function of proteins, new forms of enzyme replacement therapy are likely to emerge. A second type of enzyme replacement therapy introduces enzymes that have become deficient for some other reason. Cystic fibrosis is caused by the body's failure to produce a particular protein that is crucial to the function of cell membranes.
Enzyme replacement therapy (ERT). Genes code for proteins, and some proteins are enzymes responsible for chemical reactions in the body. So, when a gene for an enzyme is mutated and does not produce the gene product, an enzyme is missing or defective. 