Salt beef in the UK and Commonwealth as a cured and boiled foodstuff is sometimes known as corned beef elsewhere, though traditional salt beef is different in taste and preparation. The use of the term corned comes from the fact that the Middle English word corn could refer to grains of salt as well as cereal grains. Salting, either with dry salt or brine, was a common method of preserving meat until the 19th century. It was frequently called junk or salt horse. Salt inhibits the growth of microorganisms by drawing water out of microbial cells through osmosis.
Corned Beef. Corned beef refers to beef that has been preserved and flavored in a brine solution that is usually prepared with salt, which acts as a preservative. Sugar is stirred into the brine solution, which prevents the salt from hardening the meat. Salt Beef. Beef used for salt beef is usually a cut from the round primal, which is then soaked in a brine solution. Some types of salt beef must be soaked in water and rinsed repeatedly before the beef can be consumed, because the brine solution might be particularly salty.
Salt-cured beef and salt-cured pork constitute salt meat for us in the Caribbean. The cut of beef known as brisket is used to make salt beef as well and thick slices of the ribs tips. Salted pork is made with the pig's tail, snout and ears. Salt meat is sold in small quantities primarily because it is used in small quantities, this is due to its high sodium content. 1 Salt-beef tends to be saltier than salted-pork. 2  To remove the excess salt from Salt Meat, soak it over night in boiling water. 3  Drain and rinse it the next day and then add it to a pot with fresh water and boil it for 20 minutes. 4  Drain and use according to recipe.
Salted dried fish sold on a Hong Kong street. Salt-cured meat or salted meat, for example bacon and kippered herring, is meat or fish preserved or cured with salt. Salting, either with dry salt or brine, was a common method of preserving meat until the 19th century. It was frequently called junk or salt horse. Salt inhibits the growth of microorganisms by drawing water out of microbial cells through osmosis.
Salt beef recipes. Salt beef is meat that has been cured or preserved in salt. In the UK, salt beef refers to a form of beef cured in brine and then boiled. It’s usually served thickly sliced in sandwiches, or broken up and mixed with mashed potatoes and fried into a hash. The saltiness of the beef is a good match for strong, sour gherkins. Salt beef is commonly associated with Jewish cuisine. 
corned beef. n. Beef, usually brisket, round, or rump, that is seasoned with spices and cured in brine. [From corn, to preserve with granulated salt or brine .]. Word History: One might wonder where the corn in corned beef is, since there are no yellow kernels of maize to be found in a corned beef sandwich
Corned beef is a salt-cured beef product. The term comes from the treatment of the meat with large grained rock salt, also called corns of salt. It features as an ingredient in many cuisines. Corned beef remains popular in the United Kingdom and countries with British culinary traditions and is commonly used in sandwiches, corned beef hash or eaten with chips and pickles. It also remains especially popular in Canada in a variety of dishes, perhaps most prominently Montreal smoked meat.
Mark Kurlansky, in his book Salt, states that the Irish produced a salted beef around the Middle Ages that was the forerunner of what today is known as Irish corned beef and in the 17th century the English named the Irish salted beef corned beef. Corned beef remains popular in the United Kingdom and countries with British culinary traditions and is commonly used in sandwiches, corned beef hash or eaten with chips and pickles. It also remains especially popular in Canada in a variety of dishes, perhaps most prominently Montreal smoked meat.