Overview. Haemophilus influenzae, or H. influenzae, is a group of bacteria that cause different types of infections in infants and children. In rare cases, your child may develop a more serious strain of the bacteria, called H. influenzae type b (Hib) infections. This type has been nearly abolished in the United States thanks to the Hib vaccine. 1  H. influenzae infections spread from child to child by direct contact or through the air.
Haemophilus influenzae (H flu) are common bacteria that cause a wide variety of infections in children. Type b has been the cause of the most serious diseases, but can be effectively prevented by immunization. Other types of H flu, especially non-typable H flu, remain very common. 
Before we had a Hib vaccine, the most common type of invasive Haemophilus influenzae disease was meningitis. Haemophilus influenzae bacteria can also be a common cause of ear infections in children and bronchitis in adults. Learn more about these respiratory illnesses. Before we had a Hib vaccine, Hib was the number one cause of bacterial meningitis in children younger than 5 years of age. Haemophilus influenzae bacteria, including Hib, can cause many kinds of infections. These can range from mild ear infections to severe diseases, like bloodstream infections. Haemophilus influenzae bacteria most often cause pneumonia, a lung infection
There are six identifiable types of Haemophilus influenzae bacteria (a through f) and other non-identifiable types (called nontypeable). The one that most people are familiar with is Haemophilus influenzae type b, or Hib. Haemophilus influenzae bacteria, including Hib, are spread person-to-person by direct contact or through respiratory droplets like by coughing and sneezing. Usually the bacteria remain in the nose and throat — causing no harm. Haemophilus influenzae bacteria, including Hib, are spread person-to-person by direct contact or through respiratory droplets like by coughing and sneezing. Haemophilus influenzae disease, including Hib disease, is caused by the bacterium Haemophilus influenzae.
Haemophilus influenzae, or H. influenzae, represents a group of bacteria that may cause different types of infections in infants and children. H. influenzae most commonly causes ear, eye, or sinus infections, and pneumonia. A more serious strain of the bacteria called H. influenzae type b has been nearly abolished in the United States due to the development of an effective vaccine, which has been available since 1988. The H. influenzae bacteria live in the upper respiratory tract and are usually transmitted by close contact with an infected individual. Droplets in the air from a sneeze or cough can be inhaled and may also cause infection.
Hib meningitis is caused by bacteria called Haemophilus influenzae type b. Until the introduction of the Hib conjugate vaccine, this was the main form of meningitis in young children in the UK and Ireland. It affects mainly children under 4 years of age 1. Nowadays, Hib is rare in all age groups. 
H. influenzae most commonly causes ear, eye or sinus infections and pneumonia. In rare cases, your child may develop a more serious strain of the bacteria, called H. influenzae type b (Hib) infections. This type has been nearly abolished in the United States thanks to the Hib vaccine. 1  H. influenzae infections spread from child to child by direct contact or through the air.
Bacteria Home. Haemophilus influenzae type b disease (also known as Hib disease) is a bacterial illness that can cause a potentially fatal brain infection in young children. The disease can be treated with antibiotics. Because of the widespread use of effective vaccines against this illness, very few cases are now diagnosed. 
Naturally acquired disease caused by H. influenzae seems to occur in humans only. In infants and young children, H. influenzae type b (Hib) causes bacteremia, pneumonia, epiglottitis and acute bacterial meningitis. On occasion, it causes cellulitis, osteomyelitis, and infectious arthritis. Most strains of H. influenzae are opportunistic pathogens; that is, they usually live in their host without causing disease, but cause problems only when other factors (such as a viral infection, reduced immune function or chronically inflamed tissues, e.g. from allergies) create an opportunity.