The Exchange in Bristol. A corn exchange (Commonwealth English) or grain exchange (North American English) was a building where farmers and merchants traded cereal grains. Such trade was common in towns and cities across Great Britain and Ireland until the 19th century, but as the trade became centralised in the 20th century many such buildings were used for other purposes. Several have since become heritage sites.
Corn Exchange, Manchester is a grade II listed building in Manchester, England. The building was originally used as a corn exchange and was previously named the Corn & Produce Exchange, and subsequently The Triangle. Following the IRA bomb in 1996 it was renovated and was a modern shopping centre till July 2014. The Corn Exchange was renovated and reopened as the Triangle Shopping Centre (because of its shape). Most of the Edwardian interior was replaced by high-class retail outlets including MUJI, a flagship Adidas store, O'Neill and Jigsaw, all of which have now closed.
The Corn Exchange continued to trade well into the 1950s, but in the 1960s the number of traders declined dramatically, and by the 1980s few of the traders occupied the offices surrounding the trading floor. During the 1840s and 50s there was a great deal of investment in improving Leeds market facilities but the corn traders felt neglected-there had been no improvements for them since the building of the first corn exchange.
For centuries the farmers and merchants attending Leeds corn market had stood on Tuesdays in an area called Cross Parish near the Market Cross at the top of Briggate. In 1828 the town’s first purpose-built corn exchange was opened on the north side of the Headrow facing down Briggate. During the 1840s and 50s there was a great deal of investment in improving Leeds market facilities but the corn traders felt neglected-there had been no improvements for them since the building of the first corn exchange.
The Triangle at the Corn Exchange. The first Corn Exchange built on this site in 1837 was designed by Richard Lane, who by 1830 was regarded as Manchester's leading architect. However, his building was demolished and replaced in 1897 by the current building. It was in fact constructed in two sections by different architects in 1897 and 1903.
Due to this trade and the excellent water and rail connections by 1901 Leeds had 160 traders in the Corn Exchange, including 30 from Hull, 9 from Liverpool, and others from Nottingham, Manchester, Newcastle, London and Glasgow. The town had now become a grain trading centre of national importance. During the 1840s and 50s there was a great deal of investment in improving Leeds market facilities but the corn traders felt neglected-there had been no improvements for them since the building of the first corn exchange.
Although it was erected to be a Corn Exchange, it never really functioned as such and was, believed to be used more as public meeting rooms and as a recruitment/hiring hall. In 1914 the Corn Exchange became a cinema for the first time and was known as “Exchange Hall”. It was jointly managed along with the Majestic cinema in Norton and, as these were the days of Silent Movies, both had their own Orchestra. During the 1930’s the cinema enjoyed great success and was further enlarged. 
Corn Exchange. The Corn Exchange is reborn! Originally built in 1883-1884 The Corn Exchange is a Landmarked Building which passed through many owners before falling into disrepair and being partially torn down. 
November 10th 2011 Oxfordshire Guardian The Corn Exchange in Witney town centre has been forced to closed, after falling into a state of disrepair. The town council decided temporary closure was the only option for the grade II listed building at a meeting held on Monday. The Corn Exchange was built in 1863 and last refurbished in 1978. While we are acutely aware of the historic significance of the Corn Exchange and the importance of its place in the heart of Witney, in its current state it's a bit like an old car, the mayor continued.
Although the Corn Exchange was built for the trading of grain, it has since served a variety of purposes. In the 1800s it offered public meeting rooms holding up to 500 people, a library, club, literary society, and facilities to put on plays. On 21 January 1828 the property was sold by William Stacey (in full agreement with the other members of the family) to George Perry, innkeeper of Bishop’s Stortford, and in the same year purchased for £3,150 for the purpose of erecting a Corn Exchange on the site.