The filing fee for a claim of $500 or less is $30. The filing fee for a claim of $500.01 - $4000 is $50. What legal options are open to me besides small claims court? If you have a complex case or one that involves a claim of more than $4,000, you may wish to consult an attorney about other forms of legal action. 
In small claims court -- or for that matter any court -- it's essential that you organize what you have to say and the documents and/or other physical evidence you wish to show the judge. 
Before you can sue in small claims court, you must first contact the defendant (or defendants) if it's practical to do so. You must then ask for the money, property, or other relief that you intend to ask the judge to award you in court. In legal terms, you must make a demand on the other person, if possible. When you go to the small claims court, be sure to bring your copy of the original claim form (Form SC-100). If any of the defendants have been served with the original claim, you'll first need to submit a letter to the small claims court requesting the court's permission to prepare and serve an amended claim.
The Small Claims Court does not collect the judgment for you. If your appeal is taken and the judgment is not paid within 30 days, or the time set by the court in a payment plan, you may request (in writing) and upon payment of a $20 fee, that the judgment be entered into the civil docket of the court. 
1 If your claim is for more than the limit, you have to give up the balance of the claim to sue in small claims court. 2  As an example, a corporation with a claim for $6,000 would only be able to sue for the limit allowed a corporation, $5,000. 3  That corporation could not say that there were two $3,000 claims. There may also be costs of collecting any judgment that you may receive from the small claims court if the defendant does not pay willingly. 1  Filing Fees: Currently, filing fees are generally $30 for suits up to $1,500, $50 for up to $5,000 and $75 up to $10,000.
Plaintiff(s) must prove their case and defendant(s) must prove their counterclaims. If this is not done, the court will not continue the case until a later date, but will instead find against the party failing to prove their case. 3. The maximum jurisdiction of Small Claims Court is $10,000. You will need to contact the bank for the amount. 2. Transcription of Judgment: In order for a small claims judgment creditor to attach real property of a debtor, a judgment under $3,000 must be transcribed to the judgment docket of the Circuit Court.
A: An action for recovery of money based on breach of contract, for injuries, or to recover personal property may be brought in Small Claims Court if the plaintiff is willing to accept a recovery which does not exceed $7,500. The court clerk in your county can help you with small claims matters. 
1. Pay the claim in full, including court costs, 2. Deny the claim and request a hearing. 3. Deny the claim, file a counterclaim and request a hearing, 4. Demand a jury trial (claims over $750.00). If the defendant(s) requests a hearing, you will be notified by mail of the date and time to appear for that hearing. You will need to contact the bank for the amount. 2. Transcription of Judgment: In order for a small claims judgment creditor to attach real property of a debtor, a judgment under $3,000 must be transcribed to the judgment docket of the Circuit Court.
The fee for filing a claim in the small claims division of the district court is:$25 for damage claims up to $600$45 for damage claims from $600 to $1,750$65 for damage claims over $1,750 to $5,500The plaintiff is responsible for paying the filing fee and other fees. 4. Fill out the affidavit and claim form. Fill out form DC 84 (Affidavit and Claim, Small Claims) on the website or get a paper copy of theform from the court to fill out. Follow the instructions on page 6. After completing form DC 84,print out the number of copies you need (see Step 3 on pages 3 and 4). 5