Definition of Functionalism. Functionalism (or structural functionalism) is the perspective in sociology according to which society consists of different but related parts, each of which serves a particular purpose.
1 “According to [functionalism], a society is composed of interrelated parts, each of which serves a function and (ideally) contributes to the overall stability of the society. 2  Societies develop social structures, or institutions, that persist because they play a part in helping society survive. Usage Notes: 1  The basic assumption of functionalism is all elements of society serve a purpose. 2  To understand functionalism think of different aspects of society as body parts or car parts, each part as a purpose. 3  Also called:
Structural functionalism, or simply functionalism, is a framework for building theory that sees society as a complex system whose parts work together to promote solidarity and stability. This approach looks at both social structure and social functions. Functionalism addresses society as a whole in terms of the function of its constituent elements; namely norms, customs, traditions, and institutions.
Structural Functionalism is a sociological theory that attempts to explain why society functions the way it does by focusing on the relationships between the various social institutions that make up society (e.g., government, law, education, religion, etc). 
Abstract: Structural Functionalism is a broad perspective in sociology and anthropology which interprets society as structure with interrelated parts. Functionalism addresses the society as a whole in terms of function of its constituent elements such as norms, customs, traditions, institutions etc. 
Definition of FUNCTIONALISM. 1. : a late 19th century to early 20th century American school of psychology concerned especially with how the mind functions to adapt the individual to the environment — compare structuralism 1. 2. : a philosophy of design (as in architecture) holding that form should be adapted to use, material, and structure. : a theory that stresses the interdependence of the patterns and institutions of a society and their interaction in maintaining cultural and social unity. 4. : a doctrine or practice that emphasizes practical utility or functional relations. — func·tion·al·ist \-shnə-list, -shə-nə-list\ noun.
Structural functionalism, or simply functionalism, is a framework for building theory that sees society as a complex system whose parts work together to promote solidarity and stability. Two theorists, Herbert Spencer and Robert Merton, were major contributors to this perspective. Social Structure and Social Functions. The structural-functional approach is a perspective in sociology that sees society as a complex system whose parts work together to promote solidarity and stability. It asserts that our lives are guided by social structures, which are relatively stable patterns of social behavior.
By Ashley Crossman. The functionalist perspective, also called functionalism, is one of the major theoretical perspectives in sociology. It has its origins in the works of Emile Durkheim, who was especially interested in how social order is possible or how society remains relatively stable
Related Quotations: “ 1 According to [functionalism], a society is composed of interrelated parts, each of which serves a function and (ideally) contributes to the overall stability of the society. 2  Societies develop social structures, or institutions, that persist because they play a part in helping society survive. Usage Notes: 1  The basic assumption of functionalism is all elements of society serve a purpose. 2  To understand functionalism think of different aspects of society as body parts or car parts, each part as a purpose. 3  Also called: