Medata is the originator of medical bill review software solutions in the workers’ compensation, auto liability, and general health community. In 1975, Medata was founded with a vision to ensure providers receive accurate payment and patients receive appropriate care. 
Metadata was traditionally in the card catalogs of libraries. As information has become increasingly digital, metadata is also used to describe digital data using metadata standards specific to a particular discipline. 1 The business metadata tell you what data you have, where they come from, what they mean and what their relationship is to other data in the data warehouse. 2  Business metadata may also serve as a documentation for the DW/BI system. 3  Users who browse the data warehouse are primarily viewing the business metadata.
1) General Definition of the Term. Most definitions will give you a very short and simple explanation of what is metadata. Simply put, it is data that describes other sort of data. For example, keywords used for this article are part of its metadata. Author, date created and file size are also basic examples of a file’s metadata. Predictably, metadata in photography is information that describes not just some random documents and files, but image files. As with all sorts of metadata, it contains information on who made it, when, using what.
Metadata is  data about data. Two types of metadata exist: structural metadata and descriptive metadata. Structural metadata is data about the containers of data. Descriptive metadata uses individual instances of application data or the data content. 1 The business metadata tell you what data you have, where they come from, what they mean and what their relationship is to other data in the data warehouse. 2  Business metadata may also serve as a documentation for the DW/BI system. 3  Users who browse the data warehouse are primarily viewing the business metadata.
About HMEdata.com. HMEdata.com is the most popular privately run NPI registry database search website. Since 2001 we have offered billing data to HME (Home Medical Equipment) providers and have since expanded to all providers with our free NPI (National Provider Identifier) Registry Search. 
Meta is a prefix that in most information technology usages means an underlying definition or description.. Metadata summarizes basic information about data, which can make finding and working with particular instances of data easier. For example, author, date created and date modified and file size are examples of very basic document metadata. Having the abilty to filter through that metadata makes it much easier for someone to locate a specific document. In addition to document files, metadata is used for images, videos, spreadsheets and web pages. The use of metadata on web pages can be very important
These are usually expressed in the form of metatags. The metadata containing the web page’s description and summary is often displayed in search results by search engines, making its accuracy and details very important since it can determine whether a user decides to visit the site or not. For example, author, date created and date modified and file size are examples of very basic document metadata. Having the abilty to filter through that metadata makes it much easier for someone to locate a specific document. In addition to document files, metadata is used for images, videos, spreadsheets and web pages. The use of metadata on web pages can be very importan
Medanta (The Medicity) is a multi-specialty medical institute located in Gurgaon Ahirwal in the National Capital Region of India. It was established in 2009, with cardiac surgeon, Naresh Trehan. Spread across 43 acres in Gurgaon NCR and houses 1,250 beds and over 350 critical care beds, with 45 operation theatres, the hospital was founded in 2009 by renowned cardiovascular and cardiothoracic surgeon, Dr. Naresh Trehan and is located in Gurgaon, which is part of the National Capital Region.
Experience. Medata is the originator of automated bill review software solutions. Since 1975, we have processed over 500 million bills with more fee schedule automation than any other product on the market today. 