Croatia (Croatian: Hrvatska) is a country situated in Southeast Europe. It is to the east side of the Adriatic Sea, to the east of Italy. It is also bordered by Slovenia to the northwest, Hungary to the north, Bosnia and Herzegovina to the southeast, Serbia in the east, and Montenegro to the south.
Felt really safe and had a wonderful trip in Croatia, but after reading this I thought I'd mention the mistake that I made. Not that Croatia is a crime-free paradise! Government corruption remains a problem; roads link Croatia to some of Europe's dodgier corners which facilitates smuggling; disenchanted young people fuel a burgeoning drug trade (despite stiff penalties for drug possession).
Australia Department of Foreign Affairs & Trade. Croatia is a safe country to visit; the bullets stopped flying many years ago (see more on the Homeland War). No trip is entirely risk-free of course, but Croatia is generally as safe as Europe and North America (if not more so). Not that Croatia is a crime-free paradise! Government corruption remains a problem; roads link Croatia to some of Europe's dodgier corners which facilitates smuggling; disenchanted young people fuel a burgeoning drug trade (despite stiff penalties for drug possession).
There’s more big news ahead as Croatia enters the European Union in summer 2013 as the 28th member state, and in especially good news for American travelers, the country will retain its use of the kuna, the domestic currency, which is kinder to the American dollar than the euro. Don’t Walk the Walls With the Masses If you plan to travel to Croatia during the peak months of July and August, you might have to buck some trends to avoid the crowds. For example, the No. 1 tourist activity in Dubrovnik is to walk atop the famous City Walls that run for over a mile around the Old Town.
Croatia is one of the safest countries in the world with a very low violent crime rate, but the disappearance and murder of Australian backpacker Britt Lapthorne in 2008 has made some female travellers wary of visiting, Croatia Accommodation Tips. Croatia may be a regular inclusion on ‘European hot spots’ lists but it’s not quite Spain (yet), so thankfully it’s not overrun with hotels and resorts big enough for their own postcode.
Croatia's currency is the kuna (HRK). Although many tourist business owners may accept euros, Euros are not legal tender in Croatia. Any amount of kuna you have left at the end of your stay can be converted to euros at a local bank or exchange office. Prices are around 10% to 20% lower than most EU countries. It is to the east side of the Adriatic Sea, to the east of Italy. It is also bordered by Slovenia to the northwest, Hungary to the north, Bosnia and Herzegovina to the southeast, Serbia in the east, and Montenegro to the south.
While travel in Croatia is pretty much a breeze, here are a few do's and don’ts to help you navigate the country’s diverse offerings more smoothly. Adriatic Sea, Croatia. The charming clay rooftops and gleaming Adriatic Sea are what make Croatia so appealing. Don’t Walk the Walls With the Masses If you plan to travel to Croatia during the peak months of July and August, you might have to buck some trends to avoid the crowds. For example, the No. 1 tourist activity in Dubrovnik is to walk atop the famous City Walls that run for over a mile around the Old Town.
Also, don’t drive and talk on your cell phone -- it is illegal in Croatia, and strictly enforced. You can drive with your own license and a passport for up to 6 months, after which time you would need a Croatian driver’s license. Don’t Walk the Walls With the Masses If you plan to travel to Croatia during the peak months of July and August, you might have to buck some trends to avoid the crowds. For example, the No. 1 tourist activity in Dubrovnik is to walk atop the famous City Walls that run for over a mile around the Old Town.
Croatia Travel Safety. Travel safety advice for people travelling to Croatia. Free up-to-date specialist advice on risks, scams, areas to avoid, things to know, vaccination and alerts. Have your questions about safety in Croatia answered by a professional. Croatia Accommodation Tips. Croatia may be a regular inclusion on ‘European hot spots’ lists but it’s not quite Spain (yet), so thankfully it’s not overrun with hotels and resorts big enough for their own postcode.