The Republic of Liberia, formerly a colony of the American Colonization Society (ACS) declared its independence on July 26, 1847. The United States finally accepted and recognized Liberia's Independence on February 5, 1862. Liberia was the only African nation on the African continent that was a colony and protectorate for the United States. Liberia was founded, colonized, established and controlled by the American Colonization Society.
Although founded by freed American and Caribbean slaves, Liberia is mostly inhabited by indigenous Africans, with the slaves' descendants comprising 5% of the population. The West African nation was relatively calm until 1980 when William Tolbert was overthrown by Sergeant Samuel Doe after food price riots. 
Liberia, a country in West Africa, was founded, established, colonized and controlled by citizens of the United States and ex-Caribbean slaves as a colony for former African American slaves and their free black descendants. 
History. Africa's first republic, Liberia was founded in 1822 as a result of the efforts of the American Colonization Society to settle freed American slaves in West Africa. The society contended that the emigration of blacks to Africa was an answer to the problem of slavery and the incompatibility of the races. Geography. Lying on the Atlantic in the southern part of West Africa, Liberia is bordered by Sierra Leone, Guinea, and Cote côte'D. Ivoire it is comparable in size To. Tennessee most of the country is a plateau covered by dense tropical, forests which thrive under an annual rainfall of about 160. in a. year
The country of Liberia was founded in 1821 by former slaves from the United States of America as a result of the end of the transatlantic slave trade and the efforts of the American Colonization Society (ACS). 
The American Colonization Society (ACS) was formed in 1817 to send free African-Americans to Africa as an alternative to emancipation in the United States. In 1822, the society established on the west coast of Africa a colony that in 1847 became the independent nation of Liberia. By 1867, the society had sent more than 13,000 emigrants. Beginning in the 1830s, the society was harshly attacked by abolitionists, who tried to discredit colonization as a slaveholder's scheme.
History. Liberia was founded in 1821, when officials of the American Colonization Society were granted possession of Cape Mesurado by local De chiefs for the settlement of freed American slaves. African-American immigrants were landed in 1822, the first of some 15,000 to settle in Liberia. 1 Liberia: History-History Founding to 1980 Liberia was founded in 1821, when officials of the American Colonization ...
In 1820, the first former American slaves arrived at the British colony of Sierra Leone from the United States and in 1821 the American Colonization Society founded the colony of Liberia as a homeland for freed African-American and ex-Caribbean slaves to live. Liberia was the only African nation on the African continent that was a colony and protectorate for the United States. Liberia was founded, colonized, established and controlled by the American Colonization Society.
Liberia aided Britain in its efforts to end the illegal West African slave trade. Liberia was the only African nation on the African continent that was a colony and protectorate for the United States. Liberia was founded, colonized, established and controlled by the American Colonization Society.