To view or delete your browsing history. In Internet Explorer, tap More Recent to see the sites you've visited. To delete your history, do one of the following: 1  To delete your entire browsing history, tap Delete. 2  To delete one recent site, tap and hold the site, and then
b) Click on the “Favorites” button on the right top corner of the Internet Explorer window, and then click on “History” tab to view the browsing history. If this is not what you are looking for, then please do get back to us, explaining the issue in detail.
Internet Explorer Instructions. Launch the Internet Explorer application on your computer. Click on the Favorites button in the top menu bar. Go to the History tab at the top of the page. Click on any date on the list to view the history of websites you visited that day.
1 Log on to the Windows 8/Windows 8.1 computer with any account. 2  From the Start screen, click the Internet Explorer tile. 3  Once the Internet Explorer opens up, click the star button present at the top right corner of the window. 4  From the contextual pane that appears in the right, go to the History tab.
To delete your browsing history in the Internet Explorer app. Swipe in from the right edge of the screen, and then tap Settings.(If you're using a mouse, point to the lower-right corner of the screen, move the mouse pointer up, and then click Settings.). Tap or click Options, and under History, tap or click Select.
a b ĉ a b \ a b α. 1  Log on to the Windows 8/Windows 8.1 computer with any account. 2  From the Start screen, click the Internet Explorer tile. 3  Once the Internet Explorer opens up, click the star button present at the top right corner of the window. 4  From the contextual pane that appears in the right, go to the History tab.
1. Click on the Favorites link. This is the button with a Star next to it in the upper left corner of an open session of Internet Explorer. 1  For Internet Explorer 11.0 the “Star” or favorites may be located at the upper right hand corner of the screen (between the “Home” icon and the “Gear” icon).