But United's change fee, which was recently raised from $150 to $200, would have completely zeroed out the value of his credit. So he booked a one-way return flight on Southwest Airlines for $152--about the same as his original flight, including baggage fees--and never looked back.
Delta: There’s a $50 same-day standby fee. Requests for a same-day flight change can be made up to 24 hours prior to the departure time of the original flight, and it only applies to trips in the U.S., Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands. That $50 fee is only charged if you actually catch the flight.
But United’s change fee, which was recently raised from $150 to $200, would have completely zeroed out the value of his credit. So he booked a one-way return flight on Southwest Airlines for $152—about the same as his original flight, including baggage fees—and never looked back.
The fee is $110 for award flights. There is no fee to change or cancel a flight ticketed within 24 hours, so long as the reservation was made at least 7 days prior to departure. United Airlines charges change fees of $200 for domestic flights and up to $400 or more for international itineraries. Same day changes can be made for $75, but that fee is waived for MileagePlus Premier Gold, Premier Platinum and Premier 1K members.
Delta Air Lines also charges a $200 change fee for paid domestic flights (including to the U.S. Virgin Islands and Puerto Rico), and up to $450 for international flights. Same day confirmed and standby changes are permitted for Delta SkyMiles Medallion elite members, but there’s a $50 fee for Silver Medallion members.
American Airlines charges a $75 fee for a same day confirmed change or a standby request. The fee for a confirmed change is waived for Executive Platinum members only, but the fee for a standby request is waived for a much larger group of travelers that includes all elite members and customers with full fare tickets.
That’s called a standby, and it has the same $75 fee as a confirmed change although there are more groups of people who are eligible for a standby fee waiver. American Airlines does allow customers to standby on award travel, but it distinguishes between AAnytime awards and MilesAAver awards.
United Airlines charges a $75 fee whether you request a same day confirmed change or a standby on an earlier flight. However, the fee will only be charged if your standby is successful. Members with Premier Gold, Platinum, or 1K status do not have to pay this fee.
For travel outside the United States, Canada, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands, the change fee for Delta-marketed flights is typically $200 to $500, but can vary based on location and type of fare. Changes are usually permitted only to the return portion of an international itinerary.