Utopian fiction is a little harder to find. People call it the opposite of dystopian fiction. The created society in a utopian world is an ideal place to live, filled with social harmony, political stability, equality, etc. Classic authors wrote utopian fiction to propose their personal ideas of what they imagined would improve society.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The utopia and its offshoot, the dystopia, are genres of literature that explore social and political structures. Utopian fiction is the creation of an ideal society, or utopia, as the setting foror dystopia. Both utopias and dystopias are commonly found in science fiction and other speculative fiction genres, and arguably are by definition a type of speculative fiction.
Dystopia. Dystopia is a form of literature that explores social and political structures. It is a creation of a nightmare world-unlike its opposite, Utopia, which is an ideal world. Dystopia is often characterized by an authoritarian or totalitarian form of government. It often features different kinds of repressive social control systems, a lack or total absence of individual freedoms and expressions, and a state of constant warfare or violence.
Unless otherwise cited, this information comes from a wikipedia article on characteristics of dystopian fiction (see the article here). Dystopian fiction is part of the Speculative Fiction genre, and could encompass a number of subgenres depending on the elements of the story (Dystopia, 2012; De Vos, 2011). 
Most dystopian works present a world in which oppressive societal control and the illusion of a perfect society are maintained through one or more of the following types of controls: Corporate control: One or more large corporations control society through products, advertising, and/or the media. Here is more information on the characteristics of dystopian society in literature from the National Council of Teachers of English (NCTE): Utopia: A place, state, or condition that is ideally perfect in respect of politics, laws, customs, and conditions.
Dystopias, through an exaggerated worst-case scenario, make a criticism about a current trend, societal norm, or political system. Characteristics of a Dystopian Society • Propaganda is used to control the citizens of society. • Information, independent thought, and freedom are restricted. • A figurehead or concept is worshipped by the citizens of the society. • Citizens are perceived to be under constant surveillance. 
Many novels combine both Dystopia and Utopia, often as a metaphor for the different directions humanity can take in its choices, ending up with one of the tw Dystopia is a form of literature that explores social and political structures. It is a creation of a nightmare world-unlike its opposite, Utopia, which is an ideal world. Dystopia is often characterized by an authoritarian or totalitarian form of government. It often features different kinds of repressive social control systems, a lack or total absence of individual freedoms and expressions, and a state of constant warfare or violence.
See also: Utopian and dystopian fiction. A dystopia (from the Greek δυσ- and τόπος, alternatively, cacotopia, kakotopia, or simply anti-utopia) is a community or society that is undesirable or frightening. Utopia is the blueprint for an ideal society with no crime or poverty. By contrast, dystopia is a nightmare world which, in many cases, has resulted from attempts to create an ideal society. Such dystopian societies appear in many artistic works, particularly in stories set in a future