Squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) is a health condition involving the uncontrolled growth of abnormal cells in the skin outer squamous cells of the epidermis. It occurs as a result of keratinization of the epidermal cells and has the potential to metastasize to other regions of the body. 
Basal cell carcinoma is a slow growing, nonmelanoma cancer of the skin and is the number one cause of skin cancer in the United States. According the American Cancer Society, about 75% of all cancers of the skin are in the form of basal cell carcinoma. The cancer usually begins in the epidermis or the skin’s top layer. Squamous cell carcinoma is second only to basal cell carcinoma in incidence, but is a more serious cancer of the skin. It primarily occurs when there are changes in the skin’s cells.
Squamous-cell carcinoma of the skin is the most common among all sites of the body. Solid organ transplant recipients (heart, lung, liver, pancreas, among others) are also at a heightened risk of developing aggressive, high-risk SCC. 1 The tumor grows relatively slowly. 2  Unlike basal-cell carcinoma (BCC), squamous-cell carcinoma (SCC) has a substantial risk of metastasis. 3  Risk of metastasis is higher in SCC arising in scars, on the lower lips or mucosa, and occurring in immunosuppressed patients.
However, squamous cells also occur in the lining of the digestive tract, lungs, and other areas of the body, and SCC occurs as a form of cancer in diverse tissues, including the lips, mouth, esophagus, urinary bladder, prostate, lung, vagina, and cervix, among others. 1 The tumor grows relatively slowly. 2  Unlike basal-cell carcinoma (BCC), squamous-cell carcinoma (SCC) has a substantial risk of metastasis. 3  Risk of metastasis is higher in SCC arising in scars, on the lower lips or mucosa, and occurring in immunosuppressed patients.
The Second Most Common Form of Skin Cancer. Squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) is an uncontrolled growth of abnormal cells arising in the squamous cells, which compose most of the skin’s upper layers (the epidermis). SCCs often look like scaly red patches, open sores, elevated growths with a central depression, or warts; they may crust or bleed. 
Basal cell carcinoma is the most common type of skin cancer. It usually occurs on areas of the skin that have been in the sun, most often the nose. Often this cancer appears as a raised bump that looks smooth and pearly. 1 Skin cancer is a disease in which malignant (cancer) cells form in the tissues of the skin. 2  There are different types of cancer that start in the skin. 3  Skin color and being exposed to sunlight can increase the risk of nonmelanoma skin cancer and actinic keratosis.
The epidermis, or skin, consists of several layers. The outer layer is made up of scale like cells called the squamous epithelium. This layer of tissue covers the surface of much of the body, and lines the cavities of the body. A squamous cell carcinoma is a type of cancer that originates in the squamous epithelium. It may appear to be a white skin mass, or a raised bump on the skin. Often the raised mass will necrotize in the center and ulcerate, with occasional bleeding. 
SCC is still sometimes referred to as  epidermoid carcinoma  and  squamous-cell epithelioma , though the use of these terms has decreased. SCC typically initially occurs in the sixth decade of life (the 50s), but is most common in the eighth decade (the 70s). It is twice as prevalent in men as in women. 1 The tumor grows relatively slowly. 2  Unlike basal-cell carcinoma (BCC), squamous-cell carcinoma (SCC) has a substantial risk of metastasis. 3  Risk of metastasis is higher in SCC arising in scars, on the lower lips or mucosa, and occurring in immunosuppressed patients.
The most common types are basal cell carcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma, which are nonmelanoma skin cancers. Nonmelanoma skin cancers rarely spread to other parts of the body. Melanoma is the rarest form of skin cancer. It is more likely to invade nearby tissues and spread to other parts of the body. 1 Skin cancer is a disease in which malignant (cancer) cells form in the tissues of the skin. 2  There are different types of cancer that start in the skin. 3  Skin color and being exposed to sunlight can increase the risk of nonmelanoma skin cancer and actinic keratosis.
Carcinoma is a type of cancer that develops from epithelial cells. Specifically, a carcinoma is a cancer that begins in a tissue that lines the inner or outer surfaces of the body, and that generally arises from cells originating in the endodermal or ectodermal germ layer during embryogenesis.