Bacon does contain fat, but the amount is exaggerated. A single serving of bacon has less fat than many consumers assume. According to Boss Hog on the website BaconToday.com, bacon has less fat and cholesterol than many popular cuts of beef and chicken. The low fat content when compared to the amount of nutritional value is surprising.
1. Bacon Contains Saturated Fats. It’s a common myth that bacon is bad for your heart. The truth is that bacon can actually be good for your heart, especially when it reduces low density lipoprotein (LDL) levels and increases high density lipoprotein HDL which helps cholesterol to function appropriately in the body. Saturated fats provide a number of beneficial function
All it means is to cook your bacon slowly over low or medium heat, so that all the fat has a chance to melt while the meat crisps. To render bacon. get a cast iron or stainless steel skillet big enough to hold all of the bacon you’re rendering without crowding it. Heat the skillet over low heat and add bacon to the pan (no need to add oil.) If you’re using pre-sliced bacon, cook the strips whole; If you’re using slab bacon, cut it into 1/4-inch cubes. Cook it slowly, until the bacon is crisped and most of the fat is liquid.
The claims that bacon is high in fat, causes high cholesterol and ultimately leads to serious health conditions are not entirely true. Bacon does have some surprising health benefits that make it a great addition to a diet plan when it is eaten in proper serving sizes. A single serving of bacon has less fat than many consumers assume. According to Boss Hog on the website BaconToday.com, bacon has less fat and cholesterol than many popular cuts of beef and chicken. The low fat content when compared to the amount of nutritional value is surprising.
So when you have bacon and eggs for breakfast, maybe with a side of sausage, as part of a healthy real food diet, you are actually doing your heart a favor. Saturated fats also provide improved liver function, increased immune function, improves the health of the liver and lungs and benefits brain function as well. It’s a common myth that bacon is bad for your heart. The truth is that bacon can actually be good for your heart, especially when it reduces low density lipoprotein (LDL) levels and increases high density lipoprotein HDL which helps cholesterol to function appropriately in the body.
Nutrition Facts. One slice of regular cut-bacon (about 1-ounce) has 35 calories, 3 grams of total fat (1 gram of saturated fat), and 145 milligrams of sodium, which is about 6 percent of the daily recommendation. Why We Love Bacon. The upside to bacon – its flavor! While salt and grease won’t do your waistline any favors, your taste buds may feel differently. Instead of noshing on slice after slice of oily pan-fried strips, use a modest amount to flavor an entire dish.
Other recipes, like sauces or soups, call for you to heat the bacon fat and use it as cooking fat for other ingredients, which means either melting your cold, pre-rendered bacon fat, or using warm, just-rendered bacon fat. Heat the skillet over low heat and add bacon to the pan (no need to add oil.) If you’re using pre-sliced bacon, cook the strips whole; If you’re using slab bacon, cut it into 1/4-inch cubes. Cook it slowly, until the bacon is crisped and most of the fat is liquid.
Fat in Bacon. Bacon does contain fat, which resulted in the concerns to personal health. While bacon has some fat, it does not contain the most harmful form of fat. According to the website FillYourPlate.org, bacon does not have any trans fats. The most harmful form of fat is trans fats, which are created fats designed for preservation. A single serving of bacon has less fat than many consumers assume. According to Boss Hog on the website BaconToday.com, bacon has less fat and cholesterol than many popular cuts of beef and chicken. The low fat content when compared to the amount of nutritional value is surprising.
While the taste factor of bacon might be high, its health factor is quite low. The fat in the bacon is what gives it that flavor you love, and makes it fry up crispy. One bacon strip contains about 40 calories, 3.5g of fat, 1.7g of saturated fat, 7.5mg of cholesterol, 120mg of sodium, and 2.5g of protein. 
Choosing Healthy Bacon. Now that you know that the fat in bacon is not bad for you, or harmful for your health, don’t immediately go out and purchase bacon and eat it everyday. First, you need to look for bacon that is nitrite-free. Bacon usually comes from either the belly of the pig, the back, or the sides. The amount of fat (lard) in bacon depends on how fat the pig is, with the belly usually being fattier than the back, especially in America. Today, you can also find bacon made from turkey.