Berghaus Limited is an outdoor clothing and equipment manufacturer headquartered in Sunderland, Tyne & Wear, England. It is based in the North East of England but distributes worldwide. 
So to help you out we’ve put together a nice simple step by step at the bottom of this page showing you how to clean and re-waterproof your jacket. But first up, let’s get a few of those scary questions out of the way….. 1 Place item in washing machine (ideally 1 item per wash). 2  You can use a standard non biological soap as pictured or for extra benefits we recommend using ‘Nikwax Tech Wash‘ 150ml in medium/hard water* areas and 100ml in soft water areas.
Please turn it on so that you use all of the Berghaus website features. Warning message You are currently using Internet Explorer 8 which is not supported by our new website. We recommend you update to the latest version of Internet Explorer or alternatively use a different web browser. Berghaus Customer Service
Not only is it easy but it’s also worth while to get the most out of your product. So to help you out we’ve put together a nice simple step by step at the bottom of this page showing you how to clean a down jacket. First up though let’s get a few of those scary questions out of the way….. However this is not the only way to do so, hand-washing is often a preferred option. If you would like more information on hand washing your products then see here. But for now here’s a step by step for washing and retreating our down product via a machine cycle:
You are giving, courageous and bold, action oriented,energetic and strong willed. You want to make a difference in the world, and this attitude often attracts you to cultural interests, politics, social issues, and the cultivation of your creative talents. You can go to great heights and equally great depths. You are emotional and fixed in your opinions. You are hospitable, sentimental, often psychic, sometimes moody. You are ruled by love and the lack of it and feel a need to be encouraged and appreciated.You have an eventful, exciting life. You are versatile and have the ability to learn easily
DWR is a factory applied coating, but it is expected with any DWR treatment that over time you will need to re-proof it. Often, the breakdown of the DWR treatment, cuased by oil build up and general wear causes a waterproofed item to begin to leak, even if it's made from a high qulaity membrane such as GORE-Tex. These coatings should be applied ‘little and often’ after the initial breakdown of the DWR coating. After the treatment has been applied, apply your garment to a heat source, such as an iron, tumble dryer or a radiator, which will encourage the activation of the water repellent properties.
Weight - 517g. Inspired by the mountains and built for adventure, the Tower Jacket utilises Berghaus’ own waterproof technology, Hydroshell Elite Pro, a lightweight, durable and fully featured waterproof fabric. 