So instead of securing a rate of say 3.75% on your 30-year fixed, you agree to pay 4% with no mortgage insurance paid out-of-pocket. This is similar to a no cost refinance, where the lender pays all the closing costs, but you wind up with a higher interest rate.
This insurance protects your lender in case you fail to pay the mortgage. While it’s unfortunate to have to pay mortgage insurance, the upside is that you can buy a home without plunking down 20% (which might take a few more years’ worth of saving).
An example of PMI and LPMI. Say you are looking to buy a $200,000 house and don't have the 20 percent down payment required to avoid mortgage insurance. If you were to put down $20,000 to make a 10 percent down payment, you would typically have to make a private mortgage insurance payment every month.
Whether or not it’s a good idea to buy with less than 20% down is debatable, and is a topic for another article. Typically, you (the borrower) pay a monthly premium for private mortgage insurance (PMI). It’s an extra cost each month, and it can take a little bite out of your budget.
Mortgage insurance, of course, is what is required on any mortgage with less than 20 percent down (or 20 percent equity when refinancing). It covers the additional risk the lender assumes in accepting a smaller down payment. LPMI vs. PMI and FHA Private mortgage insurance (PMI) is the most common type.
Monthly mortgage payment = $477.42 + $0 = $477.42. As you can see, the option with lender-paid mortgage insurance is actually cheaper in terms of total monthly payment. One of the biggest advantages of LPMI is that you don’t have to pay mortgage insurance premiums.
A policy that reimburses the lender if the borrower defaults on a home loan. Generally, lenders require mortgage insurance when the loan is for more than 80 percent of the home's value. Often known as private mortgage insurance, or PMI.
With HARP, regardless of whether you have borrower-paid mortgage insurance (BPMI) or lender-paid mortgage insurance (LPMI), a refinance is possible. The key is that the new loan has mortgage insurance coverage at least equal to the mortgage insurance coverage on your current mortgage.
High LTV: if your loan to value ratio (LTV) is close to 80%, LPMI is probably not your best option unless you plan to get rid of the loan soon (by refinancing or prepaying). Near 80%, you're almost done with mortgage insurance altogether.
Thus, the higher interest rate you pay by doing the LPMI is tax deductible. Private mortgage insurance has been tax deductible in previous years, and the private mortgage insurance industry is lobbying to get the deduction extended, but it is not currently