The main terms you should know are: 1  Top mount: This is a self-rimming sink that sits on top of the counter. 2  Typically used with a laminate or wood counter. 3  Undermount: This sink is mounted under the counter top so the rim is hidden. 4  Typically used with a stone or solid surface counter top. 1 Typically used with a laminate or wood counter. 2  Undermount: This sink is mounted under the counter top so the rim is hidden. 3  Typically used with a stone or solid surface counter top. 4  Double bowl: This sink has two bowls, not necessarily the same size.
Special attention should be made when utilizing these sinks with a laminate countertop: 1. Sink Support: Make sure the inner walls of your cabinets have adequate building support for the weight of the sink. 2. Sealing: Use a silicone sealant to seal all edges of the sink to the laminate countertop to prevent water from leaking into your cabinet/countertop substrate. It's always wise to consult your local fabricator due to various top-mount and under-mount sink varieties on the market today.
1 Top mount: This is a self-rimming sink that sits on top of the counter. 2  Typically used with a laminate or wood counter. 3  Undermount: This sink is mounted under the counter top so the rim is hidden. 4  Typically used with a stone or solid surface counter top. 1 Typically used with a laminate or wood counter. 2  Undermount: This sink is mounted under the counter top so the rim is hidden. 3  Typically used with a stone or solid surface counter top. 4  Double bowl: This sink has two bowls, not necessarily the same size.
See the article on faucets to see which ones will work with a farmhouse sink. Kohler’s farmhouse sink is mounted under the counter top. A farmhouse sink can not be used with a laminate counter top, so your choices are stone, man-made quartz, man-made solid surface or wood. Wood?! Teak is a great choice….think of boats…but it does need regular maintenance with a food-safe oil, and should not have liquids pooling on it for long periods of time. 1 Typically used with a laminate or wood counter. 2  Undermount: This sink is mounted under the counter top so the rim is hidden. 3  Typically used with a stone or solid surface counter top. 4  Double bowl: This sink has two bowls, not necessarily the same size.
But it's tricky because we selected a Farm Sink. The farm sink can't be undermounted with a formica countertop because of the potential for water to penetrate the MDF particleboard and then it will fail. So, we are overmounting the sink, that is the sink will be raised by about 1/2 above the countertop. Farm sinks are installed both ways if you look around. 
Undo. fisheggs. There is at least one farmhouse sink that is a drop-in or overmount style-the Domsjo sink from Ikea. Undermount sinks of any style don't pair well with laminate because it is difficult to seal the cut edges of the laminate against water. If the cut-out for your farm sink is perfectly straight w/ square corners, you can laminate the edge that faces the sink. That ought to be pretty waterproof--as waterproof as it would be on the front of the counter by a drop-in.
21 May 2008 08:39 PM. I'm a consumer, not a countertop pro. I participate in an online forum at GardenWeb, for kitchen remodels, and a poster there says that she is told that she can't have a laminate countertop because she is going to have a farmhouse (apron) sink. Does that make sense to you guys? You are not authorized to post a reply. I'm a consumer, not a countertop pro. I participate in an online forum at GardenWeb, for kitchen remodels, and a poster there says that she is told that she can't have a laminate countertop because she is going to have a farmhouse (apron) sink. Does that make sense to you guys?
Yes, I confirm that's possible! I have an Ikea Domsjo (farmhouse/apron) sink with a Wilsonart HD laminate countertop in my rental kitchen. The self-rimming feature of the sink makes for a problem-free installation with a laminate countertop. Undo. writersblock. Should have specified that the drop in non-farmhouse domsjo can be undermounted in stone or quartz or corian. No sink can be undermounted in laminate except the acrylic ones that come with the countertop or from that one company that does them as aftermarkets.
Undermount sinks are defined by the way the sink is installed in relation the kitchen countertop. Rather than being dropped into a pre-cut hole in the countertop, undermount sinks are installed under the counter. 