Your job as a leader is to understand each person's strengths and place them in positions where they can flourish and grow. If you are good at that, you have a huge part of the equation for success. 4. Leadership transitions. Here is what five leadership professionals consider to be traits that make up a good leader: Rachael Fisher-Layne, vice president of media relations, JCPR, a public relations agency. 1. Honesty. Always do the honest thing. It makes employees feel like they know where they stand with you at all times. 2. Focus.
SWOT stands for: S trength, W eakness, O pportunity, T hreat. A SWOT analysis guides you to identify your organization’s strengths and weaknesses (S-W), as well as broader opportunities and threats (O-T). Developing a fuller awareness of the situation helps with both strategic planning and decision-making. If you know how to take stock of the strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats, you are more likely to plan and act effectively. SWOT provides a tool to explore both internal and external factors that may influence your work.
Strategic leadership doesn’t come easily in most organizations. Statistics show that fewer than 10% of leaders exhibit strategic skills, a woefully inadequate number considering the demands on organizations today. Strategic skills aren’t needed only in times of growth. During tough times, when resources are tight, it is even more important to ensure those resources are focused in the right areas. Leaders throughout organizations face tremendous pressures to make short-term numbers and show immediate wins.
In strengths-based leadership, you need to focus your time and energy on the things you do well. Therefore, it is important to find the necessary tools to help you deal with your weaknesses. 1  Utilize appropriate technology. 2  Tools like online calendars, smart phones, and alarms can help you stay organized and on time. 1 Identify how each strength can be used in your current role as a leader. 2  Find specific activities that play to your strengths. 3  These activities often leave you feeling confident, energized, and eager to do it again. 4  Modify your role so that you use your strengths instead of your weaknesses. 5  Invest in your strengths
People who use their strengths at work are more likely to be engaged and perform at higher levels. Learning how to lead with your strengths will not only help you set the example for others, but will also help you achieve your highest potential as a leader in your department and your organization as a whole. 1 Identify how each strength can be used in your current role as a leader. 2  Find specific activities that play to your strengths. 3  These activities often leave you feeling confident, energized, and eager to do it again. 4  Modify your role so that you use your strengths instead of your weaknesses. 5  Invest in your strengths
Lead others in identifying and using their strengths. As a leader, you can help your employees take similar steps to find and use their strengths at work. 1  Acknowledge what other people do well. 2  Provide employees opportunities to grow in their talents, skills, and knowledge. 1 Identify how each strength can be used in your current role as a leader. 2  Find specific activities that play to your strengths. 3  These activities often leave you feeling confident, energized, and eager to do it again. 4  Modify your role so that you use your strengths instead of your weaknesses. 5  Invest in your strengths
Principles of Strengths-Based Nursing Leadership The principles of Strengths-Based Nursing Leadership are consistent with the values underlying SBC (Gottlieb 2012). Principles are a reflection of the leader's vision and serve as the compass to guide decisions and direct actions. Principle #2: Strengths-Based Nursing Leadership recognizes the uniqueness of staff, nurse leaders and the organization. Strengths-Based Nursing Leadership understands that no two people are alike (Harris 2006) and that each brings to the organization his or her unique set of strengths as well as limitations.
For nurses to practise SBNC requires strong nursing leadership that creates conditions to enable them to do so. Strengths-Based Nursing Leadership complements and acts in synergy with, SBNC. This paper describes eight principles of Strengths-Based Nursing Leadership to support SBNC. Principle #2: Strengths-Based Nursing Leadership recognizes the uniqueness of staff, nurse leaders and the organization. Strengths-Based Nursing Leadership understands that no two people are alike (Harris 2006) and that each brings to the organization his or her unique set of strengths as well as limitations.
(CareerBuilder.com) -- Leadership is one of those nebulous terms -- you hear it all the time but it has various definitions. The traits that make up a good leader can vary depending on the organization, team, manager and work environment. Here is what five leadership professionals consider to be traits that make up a good leader: Rachael Fisher-Layne, vice president of media relations, JCPR, a public relations agency. 1. Honesty. Always do the honest thing. It makes employees feel like they know where they stand with you at all times. 2. Focus.