Full Definition of ION. 1. : an atom or group of atoms that carries a positive or negative electric charge as a result of having lost or gained one or more electrons. 2. : a charged subatomic particle (as a free electron). See ion defined for English-language learners. See ion defined for kids.
(December 2007). An ion (/ˈaɪən, -ɒn/) is an atom or a molecule in which the total number of electrons is not equal to the total number of protons, giving the atom or molecule a net positive or negative electrical charge. Ions can be created, by either chemical or physical means, via ionization. 
An ion is a charged atom or molecule. It is charged because the number of electrons do not equal the number of protons in the atom or molecule. An atom can acquire a positive charge or a negative charge depending on whether the number of electrons in an atom is greater or less then the number of protons in the atom. When an atom is attracted to another atom because it has an unequal number of electrons and protons, the atom is called an ION. If the atom has more electrons than protons, it is a negative ion, or ANION. If it has more protons than electrons,it is a positive ion
Medical Definition of ION. 1. : an atom or group of atoms that carries a positive or negative electric charge as a result of having lost or gained one or more electrons—see anion, cation. 2. : an atom or group of atoms that carries a positive or negative electric charge as a result of having lost or gained one or more electrons. 2. : a charged subatomic particle (as a free electron). See ion defined for English-language learners. See ion defined for kids.
Confused about ions? We'll learn the difference between an atom and an ion. Ions are formed because of a net charge on an atom, because the number of protons and electrons do not balance. This means that the atom is no longer electrically neutral, but is a cation or an anion. We also talk about polyatomic ions. 
Part of the IT standards and organizations glossary: An ion is an atom or group of atoms in which the number of electron s is different from the number of proton s. If the number of electrons is less than the number of protons, the particle is a positive ion, also called a cation. If the number of electrons is greater than the number of protons, the particle is a negative ion, also called an anion. When an atom of an element is short an electron, a plus sign is placed after its chemical symbol as a superscript to indicate that fact.
An ion is an electrically charged atom or group of atoms. It is a part of an atom, or part of a group of atoms (molecule). It is  charged  so it will move near electricity. An ion has more or less electrons than there are protons in an atom. The process of giving or taking electrons away from a normal atom and turning it into an ion is called ionization. Many ions are colourless.
An ion is an atom or molecule with more or less electrons than usual, giving it a positive or negative electric charge. Because an ion wants to become neutral by acquiring or losing additional electrons, it has interesting chemical features. Ions usually come in the form of solutions. 