The Database. The CIMS V9 Data Management software can be installed as a stand-alone single user database, a shared small network data application or a client/server configuration powered by Microsoft SQL Server. The database is designed to store and manage data from pipeline inspections data collection equipment. This feature allows CIMS™ Users to import data into CIMS™ from any PACP compliant video inspection system. CIMS™ is not designed to replace existing Work Management Programs. It is meant to manage inspection data and review video and image files either in a stand-alone environment or on a network.
The Continuous Improvement and Monitoring System (CIMS) is the system used by the state to promote positive outcomes and ensure compliance with the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) of 2004 and the Michigan Administrative Rules for Special Education. 1 Welcome to the New System: An update on CIMS redesign for ISD Monitors —August 10, 2015 (PDF | PPT). 2  Welcome to the New System: An update on CIMS redesign and what you need to know about the September 23rd release —August 11
CIMS cemetery software can help! CIMS Cemetery Software has distinct versions to accommodate any cemetery's needs. Currently, our CIMS software programs are managing more than 700 cemeteries throughout the United States and internationally! CIMS is user-friendly and budget-friendly.
A content management system (CMS) is a computer application that allows publishing, editing and modifying content, organizing, deleting as well as maintenance from a central interface. Such systems of content management provide procedures to manage workflow in a collaborative environment. The content management system (CMS) has two elements: 1  Content management application (CMA) is the front-end user interface that allows a user, even with limited expertise, to add, modify and remove content from a Web site without the intervention of a Webmaster.
CIMS™ is NASSCO PACP certified software. This feature allows CIMS™ Users to import data into CIMS™ from any PACP compliant video inspection system. CIMS™ is not designed to replace existing Work Management Programs. It is meant to manage inspection data and review video and image files either in a stand-alone environment or on a network. A Client-Server Package manages the inspection data, allowing an entire office to access the data and video from a server
Visit our Customer Area for more information. Cobra Technologies™ has introduced CIMS V9™, a SQL based data management program. CIMS V9 retains all of the features from previous versions of CIMS™, adds several new features and sets the stage for future improvements. This feature allows CIMS™ Users to import data into CIMS™ from any PACP compliant video inspection system. CIMS™ is not designed to replace existing Work Management Programs. It is meant to manage inspection data and review video and image files either in a stand-alone environment or on a network.
CIMS-HR Overview. CIMS-HR is a contact and resource management application that understands many of the special requirements of the Home and Community Care sector. There are common requirements of any service that is provided: 1  assessment. 2  intake. 3  care planning. 4  scheduling. 5  billing
CMT is a Certified Support and Services Associate with Weidenhammer Systems Corporation (WSC). For over twenty-five years, we have marketed and supported CIMS Software as an integrated package of applications which have become a standard for Michigan ISD's and school districts. 