Baloo is a main fictional character featured in Rudyard Kipling 's The Jungle Book from 1894 and The Second Jungle Book from 1895. Baloo, a bear, and Bagheera, a panther, save Mowgli from Shere Khan the tiger, and endeavor to teach Mowgli the Law of the Jungle in many of the stories of the Jungle Book. Nevertheless, this may be single observation only; we know from the dietary habits of sloth bears that while sloth bears mainly prefer termites and ants (which is also described as Baloo's special treat in The Jungle Book), their main sources of food are honey and fruits most of the year.
1 Baloo actually means bear in Hindi, so in a way, Baloo is named after his own species. 2  Baloo bears a striking resemblance to Little John from Disney's Robin Hood, who were both voiced by Phil Harris, who also gave the voice of Thomas O'Malley from Disney's The Aristocats. Baloo is the deuteragonist of the 1967 Disney animated feature film, The Jungle Book and its 2003 sequel, and the protagonist of the 1990 - 92 TV series, TaleSpin. He is a sloth bear and best friends with Mowgli
Baloo is one of Mowgli 's mentors and friends. Baloo is loyal, protective; his weakness is that he's ticklish. Variations of this version of the character have appeared in three animated series: TaleSpin (as a pilot), Jungle Cubs (as a cub) and Disney's House of Mouse (as a guest). Nevertheless, this may be single observation only; we know from the dietary habits of sloth bears that while sloth bears mainly prefer termites and ants (which is also described as Baloo's special treat in The Jungle Book), their main sources of food are honey and fruits most of the year.
Disney's Baloo is arguably the most popular character in the filmed version of The Jungle Book. He was made famous by the song . The Bare Necessities , sung by Phil Harris, in which he tells Mowgli how, if you know the tricks, you can live off the land and still have a life of leisure. Nevertheless, this may be single observation only; we know from the dietary habits of sloth bears that while sloth bears mainly prefer termites and ants (which is also described as Baloo's special treat in The Jungle Book), their main sources of food are honey and fruits most of the year.
1 Baloo bears a striking resemblance to Little John from Disney's Robin Hood, who were both voiced by Phil Harris, who also gave the voice of Thomas O'Malley from Disney's The Aristocats. 2  Baloo and Little John perform the same dance moves with King Louie in Jungle Book and with Lady Kluck in Robin Hood. Baloo is the deuteragonist of the 1967 Disney animated feature film, The Jungle Book and its 2003 sequel, and the protagonist of the 1990 - 92 TV series, TaleSpin. He is a sloth bear and best friends with Mowgli
Baloo is easily characterized by his laid back, gentle nature. Often speaking with a soft, smooth tone, the sloth bear is known for his ideals of remaining relaxed as often as possible, and preventing the pressures and responsibilities of life hold one down, as vocalized through his song,  Bare Necessities . Baloo is the deuteragonist of the 1967 Disney animated feature film, The Jungle Book and its 2003 sequel, and the protagonist of the 1990 - 92 TV series, TaleSpin. He is a sloth bear and best friends with Mowgli
Baloo is a Sloth Bear, also called the Labiated Bear. This bear is found only in India, and of course, in the film as Mowgli's best friend. Baloo from The Jungle Book is a cear, but most people do not know what type of bear Baloo actually is. Baloo is identified as a Sloth bear. add a comment
Baloo was an Indian Sloth Bear. These bears are dark brown in color, with a whitish snout and a white V marking on their chest. They eat insects. Sloth Bears are almost as dangerous as tigers, and many people in India have been attacked by these easily-angered animals. 