(This sentence provides a good conclusion by restating the topic sentence.) 2. Make sure that the concluding sentence does not introduce another subject that is not covered by the paragraph, which includes the concluding sentence. In all of these examples, the concluding sentence leaves the reader with a restatement. of the paragraph's main idea. Without a good concluding sentence, the writer cannot. end a paragraph effectively.
The Concluding Sentence In formal paragraphs you will sometimes see a sentence at the end of the paragraph which summarizes the information that has been presented. This is the concluding sentence. You can think of a concluding sentence as a sort of topic sentence in reverse. You can understand concluding sentences with this example. Consider a hamburger that you can buy at a fast-food restaurant.* A hamburger has a top bun (a kind of bread), meat, cheese, lettuce, and other elements in the middle of the hamburger, and a bottom bun. Note how the top bun and the bottom bun are very similar.
D. In a paragraph, which explains through the use of examples, the writer must. supply a strong concluding sentence. This sentence should not be just another. example --it should restate the topic sentence (controlling idea) and summarize. all of the examples the writer has included in the paragraph. In all of these examples, the concluding sentence leaves the reader with a restatement. of the paragraph's main idea. Without a good concluding sentence, the writer cannot. end a paragraph effectively.
There are many ways to start off a concluding sentence, such as: In conclusion.... In other words.... As can be seen by the preceding information.... To conclude.... So.... There are more, definitely, and not every one will fit into the conclusion. how to write a concluding sentence for a paragraph and how to write a concluding paragraph for the end of the report. Add your answer. Source. Submit Cancel.
Part 2 of 2: Starting Your Conclusion. 1. Write the first sentence as a transition. This sentence should build a bridge between the body paragraphs and the ending thoughts. Use words and phrases from your topic to connect the sentence and conclusion paragraph to the rest of the essay. 1  This sentence does not restate your thesis or main points yet. 2  It simply connects the topic of the essay to the conclusion paragraph
(This sentence restates. the paragraph's main idea, not just one of the examples that the. writer uses to show how fragile a reputation actually is.). E. In a narrative paragraph~ which tells a story with a definite point the. writer needs a concluding sentence to reinforce the point being made. In all of these examples, the concluding sentence leaves the reader with a restatement. of the paragraph's main idea. Without a good concluding sentence, the writer cannot. end a paragraph effectively.
Concluding Sentence. It is important for students to know how to write a conclusion, whether to drive the final point home or to transition to the next point. Writing a conclusion clinches everything mentioned in a paragraph.
· just now. Report Abuse. say In conclusion, then summarize the main point of the paragraph. for the concluding paragraph try to recap and connect all of the main points of the report. Meep Er · 4 years ago. Thumbs up. 0. Thumbs down. 1. 1 comment. Loading ... how to write a concluding sentence for a paragraph and how to write a concluding paragraph for the end of the report. Add your answer. Source. Submit Cancel.
Confidence votes 689. My conclusion is... is absolutely the WRONG way to start a conclusion. Review your main points and basically recap on what youre actually talking about. Look at your thesis statement or topic sentence, then repeat (NOT word-for-word). For the first sentence of your conclusion; try a question, a shocking statement, or a statistic (but make sure you don't introduce any new information). Another way: The conclusion is the end of the essay. It is the last part of the essay and it is the part that the reader may remember most.