Full Definition of GAUZE. 1. a: a thin often transparent fabric used chiefly for clothing or draperies b: a loosely woven cotton surgical dressing c: a firm woven fabric of metal or plastic filaments. 2. : haze. — gauze·like \-ˌlīk\ adjective. — gauz·i·ly \ˈgȯ-zə-lē\ adverb. See gauze defined for English-language learners. 
Cotton gauze fabrics are lightweight, airy, and slightly crinkled for a casual look. Cotton gauze by the yard is popular for garments such as loose peasant tops and full skirts and dresses. This fabric has also become popular with designers and new moms who carry their babies in slings across their bodies. Often referred to as “baby muslin,” cotton gauze is lightweight and breathable for parents and babies, has some give to be more comfortable around the body, is totally washable, and comes in a rainbow of colors. Cotton Gauze Fabrics. 100% Cotton. Machine wash cold with like colors, tumble dry low.
Gauze is a thin, translucent fabric with a loose open weave. In technical terms gauze is a weave structure in which the weft yarns are arranged in pairs and are crossed before and after each warp yarn keeping the weft firmly in place. Gauze was originally made of silk and was used for clothing. It is now used for many different things, including gauze sponges for medical purposes. When used as a medical dressing, gauze is generally made of cotton. It is especially useful for dressing wounds where other fabrics might stick to the burn or laceration.
gauze. n. 1. a. A thin, transparent fabric with a loose open weave, used for curtains and clothing. b. Noun. 1. gauze - (medicine) bleached cotton cloth of plain weave used for bandages and dressings. gauze bandage. bandage, patch-a piece of soft material that covers and protects an injured part of the body. cotton-fabric woven from cotton fibers
1. gauzy-so thin as to transmit light; a hat with a diaphanous veil; filmy wings of a moth; gauzy clouds of dandelion down; gossamer cobwebs; sheer silk stockings; transparent chiffon; vaporous silks. cobwebby, diaphanous, filmy, gauze-like, see-through, vaporous, vapourous, gossamer, transparent, sheer. 
gauze. 1. thin and often transparent fabric made from any fiber in a plain or leno weave. 2. a surgical dressing of loosely woven cotton. 3. any material made of an open, meshlike weave, as of wire. Noun. 1. gauze - (medicine) bleached cotton cloth of plain weave used for bandages and dressings. gauze bandage. bandage, patch-a piece of soft material that covers and protects an injured part of the body. cotton-fabric woven from cotton fibers
Answer   Gauze is a light, open-weave fabric made of cotton when used for surgical dressings and of silk and other fibres when used for dress trimming. The name is … derived from that of the Palestinian city of Gaza, where the fabric is thought to have originated. + 1 other found this useful. Dung Ho. 
the loose weave allows for a breathable and airy fabric which is oh-so-soft, while the double layer lends a bit of weight that gives it a nice shape. the drape of a double gauze is similar to that of shot cotton or a light-weight linen. 
• GAUZE (noun). The noun GAUZE has 2 senses: 1. (medicine) bleached cotton cloth of plain weave used for bandages and dressings. 2. a net of transparent fabric with a loose open weave. Familiarity information: GAUZE used as a noun is rare. Hypernyms (gauze is a kind of...): mesh; meshing; meshwork; net; network (an open fabric of string or rope or wire woven together at regular intervals). Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of gauze): cheesecloth (a coarse loosely woven cotton gauze; originally used to wrap cheeses).