You'll need a bachelor's degree to apply for optometry programs, which are rather competitive. Optometry programs typically take an additional four years to complete; upon completion you must meet national and your state's licensing requirements in order to become a practicing optometrist.
In order to apply for acceptance to optometry school, a student must have completed at least three years of undergraduate study at an accredited university. Many prospective optometrists end up earning an undergraduate degree.
2. Obtain a bachelor's degree from a four-year institution. Most optometry schools require coursework in biology, chemistry, physics, English, and mathematics. Talk to your counselor to determine what courses you should be taking, and check the requirements at the optometry programs you plan on applying to.
How to Become an Optometrist. Optometrists diagnose vision problems and prescribe corrective lenses and medications to treat them. They differ from ophthalmologists, who can also perform eye surgeries, and from opticians, who design, fit, and dispense lenses.
Complete a Doctor of Optometry Program. These programs take four years to complete, and must be completed at an accredited optometry school. 1  The cost of the program will vary depending on what school you choose, but annual tuition ranges from roughly $9,000 to $22,000 for state residents.
Step 4: Become a Licensed Optometrist. Every state in the U.S. requires optometrists to be licensed. After graduating from a state-approved optometry program, applicants must pass written and clinical exams administered by the National Board of Examiners in Optometry.
Although not medical doctors, optometrists follow a similar educational course. A bachelor’s degree is not necessarily required, but you will need at least three years of post-secondary education in order to apply for the mandatory four-year doctor of optometry (OD) program.
Optometry School. Most optometrists have a bachelor’s degree, although the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics notes the minimum requirement is three years of post-secondary education that includes courses in biology, chemistry, physics, English and math.