Major cities near Pepperdine University. This is a list of large cities closest to Pepperdine University. A big city usually has a population of at least 200,000 and you can often fly into a major airport. If you need to book a flight, search for the nearest airport to Pepperdine University. 1  27 miles to Los Angeles, CA. 2  27 miles to Glendale, CA. The center of each city listed is within 22 miles of Pepperdine University. Scroll down the page to find a list of big cities if you're booking a flight between airports, or a list of smaller surrounding towns if you're doing a road trip.
Nestled in the Santa Monica Mountains and stretching for 27 miles, Malibu is the perfect vacationing spot (and the perfect spot to go to school). Malibu is 20-30 minutes away from the San Fernando Valley, Los Angeles, and other West Coast destinations. 20 Minutes from Campus. Centered between downtown Los Angeles and Santa Barbara on the 101 Ventura Freeway, 40 miles to Los Angeles Convention Center, 30 miles to Hollywood and Beverly Hills, 20 minutes to Malibu; 40 miles to Los Angeles Int'l Airport, 30 miles to Burbank Airport.
Hotels/Motels near Pepperdine University are listed below ordered by distance (closest first). Browse our hotels/motels to find accommodations near Pepperdine University (in Pepperdine University) for your leisure or business trips.Pepperdine University is located at 24255 Pacific Coast Hwy.
Pepperdine University is located approximately 30 minutes by car from one of the largest international airports, Los Angeles International Airport (LAX). 
International airports near Pepperdine University. 28 miles: Los Angeles, CA (LAX / KLAX) Los Angeles International Airport. 63 miles: Santa Ana, CA (SNA / KSNA) John Wayne Airport. 70 miles: Ontario, CA (ONT / KONT) LA/Ontario International Airport. Long Beach Airport (LGB / KLGB) has domestic flights from Long Beach, California and is 46 miles from
This airport has international and domestic flights from Los Angeles, California and is 28 miles from the center of Pepperdine University. Another major airport is Bob Hope Airport (BUR / KBUR), which has domestic flights from Burbank, California and is 33 miles from Pepperdine University. Long Beach Airport (LGB / KLGB) has domestic flights from Long Beach, California and is 46 miles from Pepperdine University.
Find Hotels near Pepperdine University. Pepperdine University is located in eastern Malibu, California, overlooking the Pacific Ocean. The closest hotels are east of the campus. Other hotels are 7-10 miles north of Pepperdine along the Ventura Highway. Hotel Guides US Colleges. Hotels closest to Pepperdine University  as the crow flies  are listed first.
The hotel is just 30 minutes from Pepperdine's Malibu Campus and minutes from The Getty Center, Beverly Hills, West Los Angeles, Century City, Malibu and Venice Beach. P: 818-222-5300. 20 minutes from campus. The Anza hotel in Calabasas is ideally situated in Old Town Calabasas just 20 minutes from Pepperdine University and off Hwy 101, only 45 minutes from LAX and 25 minutes from Burbank Airport (BUR). The Anza offers an entirely new hotel experience in Calabasas.