I have been a vegetarian for 25 years, and a vegan for 12 years. Vegans who eat unrefined foods, including vegetables, fruits, legumes, grains, nuts, seeds, and musrhooms should get plenty of protein, riboflavin, calcium, iron, zinc, and essential fatty acids.
Not eating animal products means a diet low in saturated fat and cholesterol, and although it can also be used to lose weight, it's important not to skip out on valuable nutrients that often come from meat and dairy. Vitamin B12. Most women need 2.4 mcg of this vitamin each day.
A meatless diet can be healthy, but vegetarians -- especially vegans -- need to make sure they're getting enough vitamin B12, calcium, iron, and zinc. The Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics warns of the risk of vitamin B12 deficiencies in vegetarians and vegans. Vitamin B12 is found naturally only in animal products.
Vitamin D. Vitamin D is another nutrient that is often missing in vegan and vegetarian diets. Vitamin D' s interaction with calcium is essential for bone health, which makes it particularly important for aging people.
Go for fortified cereals, cinnamon, fortified soy milk, almond milk, figs, green veggies such as spinach, kale, and broccoli, tofu, soy yogurt, and tempeh, and indulge in some dairy-free frozen dessert. Here's a sample daily diet showing what a vegan needs to eat to obtain her daily calcium.
Found mostly in poultry, beef, fish, and dairy products, this B vitamin has vegan sources as well including fortified cereals, fortified soy milk, kale, spinach, and nutritional yeast.
Here are some ways to incorporate these nutrients into a vegetarian diet: 1  Protein: Choose tofu, edamame, tempeh, veggie burgers with 5 grams of protein or more, beans and other legumes, nuts, nut butters, eggs, and higher-protein whole grains such as quinoa, amaranth, and kamut.
Be sure to include fortified cereal, fortified soy milk, beans such as garbanzos and lentils, tofu, sun-dried tomatoes, potatoes, sunflower seeds, flaxseeds, and peanuts in your vegan diet.
Fact is that there will always be unhealthy people who don't have balanced diets, who aren't getting enough nutrients--some are carnivores, others vegetarians. The Complete Idiot's Guide to Being Vegetarian has a really neat table that lists the most common elements missing in the average American diet.