Skin lichen planus affects men and women equally, but oral lichen planus affects women twice as often as men. Although it may occur at any age, it usually affects middle-aged adults. It is uncommon in the very young and elderly. In the vulva or vagina, it may appear as bright red patches or sores. Such condition can be confused with sexually transmitted diseases, although lichen planus is neither sexually transmitted nor contagious as mentioned above. Genital lichen planus does not usually cause symptoms, but open sores may be quite tender.
However, in my experience, most patients with LPP do not have lichen planus elsewhere on the body. Frontal fibrosing alopecia (FFA) is felt to be a distinctive clinical variant of LPP. Patients with FFA are usually postmenopausal women with scarring alopecia of the frontal scalp margin and associated eyebrow loss. 
Infection and Lichen planus. Lichen planus is not infectious or contagious. Lichen planus has been linked to hepatitis C virus infection, which is contagious through sexual contact.
Lichen planus is a chronic recurrent rash that is due to inflammation. The rash is characterized by small, flat-topped, many-sided (polygonal) bumps that can grow together into rough, scaly plaques on the skin. There may also be a rash in the lining (mucous membranes) of the mouth or vagina. Lichen planus is a very curious and poorly understood skin condition. Lichen planus facts. 1  Lichen planus is a chronic recurrent rash of unknown cause with no established cure. 2  Lichen planus generally affects adults and can involve any portion of the body, but it has a predilection for the wrists, ankles, and oral and genital tissues.
Summary. Lichen planopilaris (LPP) is a rare cutaneous variant of lichen planus (see this term) which affects hair follicles. It may occur on its own or in association with more common forms of lichen planus, usually classical type and/or oral lichen planus. The prevalence is unknown. LPP is more frequent in women than in men. The disease manifests in adulthood (40-60 years of age), with some rare cases in childhood
Lichen planopilaris (follicular lichen planus) is one such alopecia condition, and is classified as a primary inflammatory scarring alopecia. Classic lichen planopilaris (LPP) is a variant of lichen planus, a common skin disease that affects other areas of the body skin away fro mthe scalp. Lichen planopilaris affects the hairy areas of the body, causing inflammation, hair loss, and scarring. It is considered as a variant of lichen planus as it follows the same development pattern as classic lichen planus. Lichen planopilaris also known as follicular lichen planus, is manifested by tiny red spiny papules around a cluster of hairs. Sometimes even blistering occurs in the lesions. In some cases, no follicular scaling or inflammation is present but bald areas of scarring slowly appear.
In some people, certain drugs cause lichen planus. These drugs include medications for high blood pressure, heart disease, diabetes, arthritis and malaria, antibiotics, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory pain killers, etc. It is important to tell your doctor all the medicines you are taking. In the vulva or vagina, it may appear as bright red patches or sores. Such condition can be confused with sexually transmitted diseases, although lichen planus is neither sexually transmitted nor contagious as mentioned above. Genital lichen planus does not usually cause symptoms, but open sores may be quite tender.
The cause of lichen planus is unknown. In certain locales, patients with extensive lichen planus seem to be more likely to have a hepatitis C virus infection of the liver. However, it is unclear if this virus is the cause of lichen planus in such situations. Lichen planus facts. 1  Lichen planus is a chronic recurrent rash of unknown cause with no established cure. 2  Lichen planus generally affects adults and can involve any portion of the body, but it has a predilection for the wrists, ankles, and oral and genital tissues.
Lichen planus is a relatively common inflammatory disease that affects the skin and/or inside the mouth, resulting in distinctive skin and/or oral lesions. Lichen planus of the skin usually causes itching. There seems to be a relationship between the oral form and the skin form of lichen planus. In the vulva or vagina, it may appear as bright red patches or sores. Such condition can be confused with sexually transmitted diseases, although lichen planus is neither sexually transmitted nor contagious as mentioned above. Genital lichen planus does not usually cause symptoms, but open sores may be quite tender.
Lichen planopilaris is a rare inflammatory condition that results in patchy progressive permanent hair loss mainly on the scalp. Three forms are recognised: 1  Classic lichen planopilaris, also known as follicular lichen planus. 2  Frontal fibrosing alopecia. It commonly develops in association with lichen planus affecting the skin, mucosa and nails. The cause of lichen planopilaris is unknown. Although lichen planopilaris is rare, it is one of the common causes of scarring hair loss of