1 Gavrilo Princip fired the shot that started World War I when he killed Archduke Franz Ferdinand. 2  Princip, a Slav nationalist, wanted to drive the Austro-Hungarians out of Bosnia. 3  He was a high school student when he carried out the assassination, in Sarajevo. A century ago this Saturday on a street corner in Sarajevo, Gavrilo Princip fired the shot that started World War I when he killed Archduke Franz Ferdinand.
Princip and his accomplices were arrested and implicated by several members of the Serbian military, leading Austria-Hungary to issue a demarche démarche To serbia known as The July. Ultimatum this was used as pretext For-Austria'hungary s invasion Of, serbia which then led To World War. i A student who witnessed the incident claimed that Princip went from class to class, threatening with his knuckle-duster all the boys who wavered in coming to the new demonstrations.. Princip left Sarajevo shortly after being expelled and made the 280 kilometres (170 mi) journey to Belgrade on foot.
Gavrilo Princip's parents Marija Mičić and Petar Princip. Gavrilo Princip was born in the remote hamlet of Obljaj, near Bosansko Grahovo, on 25 July [ O.S. 13 July] 1894. He was one of nine children, six of whom died in infancy. A student who witnessed the incident claimed that Princip went from class to class, threatening with his knuckle-duster all the boys who wavered in coming to the new demonstrations.. Princip left Sarajevo shortly after being expelled and made the 280 kilometres (170 mi) journey to Belgrade on foot.
Story highlights. 1  Gavrilo Princip fired the shot that started World War I when he killed Archduke Franz Ferdinand. 2  Princip, a Slav nationalist, wanted to drive the Austro-Hungarians out of Bosnia. 3  He was a high school student when he carried out the assassination, in Sarajevo. A century ago this Saturday on a street corner in Sarajevo, Gavrilo Princip fired the shot that started World War I when he killed Archduke Franz Ferdinand.
Gavrilo Princip (1895-1918) was a Serbian nationalist who became the catalyst for World War I when he assassinated Austrian Archduke Franz Ferdinand in Sarajevo on June 28, 1914. A member of a complicated plot against the Austrian heir to the throne, Princip seized his opportunity when a wrong turn forced Ferdinand's car to stall right in front of him. Princip then shot the Archduke and his wife, Sophie, killing them both.
Who's Who-Gavrilo Princip. Gavrilo Princip (1894-1918) was born in June or July 1894, the son of a postman. One of nine children, six of whom died in infancy, Princip's health was poor from an early age: his eventual death was caused by tuberculosis. After attending schools in Sarajevo and Tuzla, Princip left for Belgrade in May 1912. One of the men, Nedjelko Cabrinovic, threw a grenade at the Archduke's car. The driver took evasive action and quickly sped from the scene. The grenade bounced off the back of the Archduke's car and rolled underneath the next car, exploding seconds later; two of its occupants were severely wounded.
The shot that sparked World War One. 1  Archduke Franz Ferdinand and wife Sophie shot dead in their car by Gavrilo Princip on 28 June 1914 in Sarajevo. 2  Princip one of seven members of Mlada Bosna (Young Bosnia), a Bosnian Serb terrorist organisation who want independence from Austria-Hungary. 1 Archduke Franz Ferdinand and wife Sophie shot dead in their car by Gavrilo Princip on 28 June 1914 in Sarajevo.
Gavrilo Princip. Gavrilo Princip, the son of a postman, was born in Bosnia-Herzegovina in July, 1894. Gavrilo was one of nine children, six of whom died in infancy. His health was poor and from an early age suffered from tuberculosis. While in Serbia Princip joined the Black Hand secret society. For the next two years he spent most of his spare time with other nationalists who also favoured a union between Bosnia-Herzegovina and Serbia.