Quinoa, often described as a superfood or a supergrain, has become popular among the health conscious, with good reason. Quinoa (pronounced KEEN-wah or ke-NO-ah) is packed with protein, fiber and various vitamins and minerals. It is also gluten-free and is recommended for people who are on a gluten-free diet. The yellowish pods are the seed of a plant called Chenopodium quinoa, native to Peru and related to beets, chard and spinach, wrote Nicole Spiridakis in a story for NPR. When cooked, quinoa is soft and fluffy, with a slightly nutty taste.
Quinoa is committed to being the world's destination for a high-end Peruvian-Mexican culinary experience by bringing Mexican & Peruvian food to your culture. 
Directions. 1  Put quinoa with chicken broth in a large saucepan and bring to a boil. 2  Reduce to simmer, cover and cook until all the broth is absorbed (about 10-15 minutes). 3  Stir occasionally while simmering. 4  In a small bowl; mix cream, sriracha, lemon juice, and sundried tomatoes. 1 Reduce to simmer, cover and cook until all the broth is absorbed (about 10-15 minutes). 2  Stir occasionally while simmering. 3  In a small bowl; mix cream, sriracha, lemon juice, and sundried tomatoes. 4  Add tomato mix to cooked quinoa and stir well.
1 Put quinoa with chicken broth in a large saucepan and bring to a boil. 2  Reduce to simmer, cover and cook until all the broth is absorbed (about 10-15 minutes). 3  Stir occasionally while simmering. 4  In a small bowl; mix cream, sriracha, lemon juice, and sundried tomatoes. 5  Add tomato mix to cooked quinoa and stir well. 1 Reduce to simmer, cover and cook until all the broth is absorbed (about 10-15 minutes). 2  Stir occasionally while simmering. 3  In a small bowl; mix cream, sriracha, lemon juice, and sundried tomatoes. 4
Place rinsed quinoa and water in pot (covered) and cook covered on medium-low heat for about 15 minutes until soft. 2. While the quinoa is cooking, place the onions, garlic and vegetable oil in covered soup pot and saute sauté on medium heat for 5 to 8 minutes or until slightly. caramelized. 3 and celery and carrots to the soup pot and cook an additional 5, minutes stirring. often
Quinoa (/ˈkiːnoʊ.ə/ , from Quechua kinwa or kinuwa) is a species of the goosefoot genus (Chenopodium quinoa), a grain crop grown primarily for its edible seeds. It is a pseudocereal, similar in some respects to buckwheat, rather than a true cereal, as it is not a member of the true grass family. Quinoa was important to the diet of pre-Columbian Andean civilizations. Protein content is very high for a cereal/pseudo-cereal (14% by mass), but not as high as most beans and legumes.
Quinoa comes from Peru, Bolivia and Chile. It grows in the Andes Mountains, and for millennia it has been a food staple for the native people there. According to a field crops article by the University of Wisconsin and the University of Minnesota, quinoa means mother grain in the Incan language. The yellowish pods are the seed of a plant called Chenopodium quinoa, native to Peru and related to beets, chard and spinach, wrote Nicole Spiridakis in a story for NPR. When cooked, quinoa is soft and fluffy, with a slightly nutty taste.