According to the Cremation Research Council, the average cost of a direct cremation is $1,100. This process does not include a traditional funeral service involving viewing of the body before cremation. Consequently, you do not need to spend on a casket and embalming of the body.
Cremation Packages average prices to expect. The average price of a direct cremation generally varies between $495 and $1,500. This cost varies between areas. In Miami, Las Vegas and Phoenix you can arrange a direct cremation for as little as $495 - $580. However, in most metro areas across the U.S. a direct cremation costs between $795 and $1,200.
Cremation costs also depend on whether other services are included with the cremation, the cost of the casket or container used during cremation, and other factors. According to the Cremation Association of North America, the average cost of a cremation with a simple memorial service is $1650.
Headstones tend to cost more than cremation memorials. Prices vary, depending on the region and material, but the least expensive headstones are typically priced in the $200 to $500 range. More elaborate upright markers range from $1,000 to $3,000, with prices quickly escalating for fine materials or elaborate details.
The cost of cremation typically ranges from $2,000 to $4,000 if arranged through a funeral home and from $1,500 to $3,000 if arranged directly through a crematory.
In order to establish what is the average cost of a cremation in your area, you need to compare prices purely on a local level, and you need to ensure you are comparing apples to apples. You will find that there are different brackets of cremation providers and funeral homes offering cremation services.
Funeral costs vary depending on what your specific needs are or family wishes. Today the average cost of a traditional funeral can start at $7,200 up to $15,000. The initial fee is based on funeral home services, staff, and equipment.
In the United States, nearly quarter of all corpses are cremated because cremation is seen as way of reducing the average cost of a funeral. Traditional funerals are an expensive affair with costs starting at $5,000 but the average cost for cremation services is one-fifth of that.