Best Answer: Golgi apparatus Cells synthesize a large number of different macromolecules required for life. The Golgi apparatus is integral in modifying, sorting, and packaging these substances for cell secretion (exocytosis) or for use within the cell. As an analogy, it is like a cellular post office. 
Cell Organelle Information-You will need to know both the structure and function of the organelles in a cell. Make sure you know the difference in organelles found in plant and animal cells. Nucleus Back to the Top Function The nucleus is the control center of a cell as such it is the most important part of the cell. The control arises from the genetic information stored in the nucleus. Genes are made of the nucleic acid DNA. 
The Golgi Apparatus is a highly-folded membrane structure on the  terminal portion of the endoplasmic reticulum. The Golgi is the  final packaging and distribution station p … rior to release into the  cytoplasm or loading into vesicles for extracellular transport. The cell organelle that packages molecules into vesicles for  distribution is the Golgi apparatus. The Golgi apparatus is  flattened stacks of membranes where unprocessed pr … oteins enter and  are packaged and exported near the membrane. Answered. In Biology.
Nucleus [edit]. The nucleus contains genetic material or DNA in the form of chromatin, or, during mitosis or late interphase, chromosomes. All transcription and replication of genetic material takes place within the nucleus, as does mRNA processing. Central Vacuole The central vacuole is found only in plant cells. It is filled with water and is pressurised, like a balloon. This forces all the other organelles within the cell out toward the cell wall. This pressure is called turgor pressure and is what gives plants their crisp and firm structure.
Part of a cell that contains no ribosomes and lipids are produces is called. smooth ER. koolkat. Answered in Science Midterm. Name parts of the cell that are similar to four different areas in the school. 1. Golgi Apparatus is similar to the mailing room since both package item in order for them to be sent somewhere. 2. Cytoskeleton is similar to the walls in our school because both hold together structures (the cytoskeleton holds the cell together and the walls hold the school together)
Ribosomes are the smallest organelle in a cell, but they have a big job. They are made of two subunits, a large and a small, and they perform protein synthesis. Protein synthesis is where RNA comes into a ribosome after copying DNA. The rough ER is part of a system of producing, packaging, and shipping with the cell membrane or possibly the Golgi body. The rough ER is the start of the process with the making of the proteins and shipping them along the line to
Smooth ER act as transport for various things, mainly the RNA from the nucleus to the ribosomes (RNA is a small piece of the DNA code specifically designed to tell the ribosomes what to make). Smooth ER appears smooth in texture, hence the name. Central Vacuole The central vacuole is found only in plant cells. It is filled with water and is pressurised, like a balloon. This forces all the other organelles within the cell out toward the cell wall. This pressure is called turgor pressure and is what gives plants their crisp and firm structure.
Pinterest and HGTV addict. The Golgi Apparatus is often referred to as the packaging and distribution center because its primary function is to pack proteins inside the cell before then sending them out to where they need to be. The cell organelle that packages molecules into vesicles for  distribution is the Golgi apparatus. The Golgi apparatus is  flattened stacks of membranes where unprocessed pr … oteins enter and  are packaged and exported near the membrane. Answered. In Biology.
The Cell Nucleus The nucleus is a highly specialized organelle that serves as the information processing and administrative center of the cell. A double-layered membrane, the nuclear envelope, separates the contents of the nucleus from the cellular cytoplasm. The envelope is riddled with holes called nuclear pores that allow specific types and sizes of molecules to pass back and forth between the nucleus and the
Golgi Complex [edit]. The Golgi Complex basically functions as a packaging center for the cell, attaching address labels (functional groups) to various cell products to direct them to their respective locations, and packaging the products into vacuoles to ensure delivery. Central Vacuole The central vacuole is found only in plant cells. It is filled with water and is pressurised, like a balloon. This forces all the other organelles within the cell out toward the cell wall. This pressure is called turgor pressure and is what gives plants their crisp and firm structure.