Definition of Downstream. The downstream stage in the production process involves processing the materials collected during the upstream stage into a finished product. The downstream stage further includes the actual sale of that product to other businesses, governments or private individuals.
Definition of Upstream. The upstream stage of the production process involves searching for and extracting raw materials. The upstream part of the production process does not do anything with the material itself, such as processing the material. This part of the process simply finds and extracts the raw material.he downstream stage in the production process involves processing the materials collected during the upstream stage into a finished product. The downstream stage further includes the actual sale of that product to other businesses, governments or private individuals.
Full Definition of DOWNSTREAM. 1. : in the direction of or nearer to the mouth of a stream. 2. : in or toward the latter stages of a usually industrial process or the stages (as marketing) after manufacture. See downstream defined for English-language learners. See downstream defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 
The downstream sector commonly refers to the refining of petroleum crude oil and the processing and purifying of raw natural gas, as well as the marketing and distribution of products derived from crude oil and natural gas. The oil and gas industry is usually divided into three major sectors: upstream, midstream and downstream.
down·stream. adv. 1. Toward or closer to the mouth of a stream; in the direction of the current: floated downstream. 2. At a later point in a production process or supply chain. adj. 1. Being or moving closer to the mouth of a stream; in the direction of the current. 2. Later in a production process or supply chain. downstream. adv, adj. 1. (Physical Geography) in or towards the lower part of a stream; with the current. 2. (Navigation) in or towards the lower part of a stream; with the current. 3. (Mining & Quarrying) (in the oil industry) of or for the refining, distribution, or marketing of oil or its derived products.
DEFINITION of 'Downstream'. The oil and gas operations that take place after the production phase, through to the point of sale. Downstream operations can include refining crude oil and distributing the by-products down to the retail level. By-products can include gasoline, natural gas liquids, diesel and a variety of other energy sources.
Upstream and downstream are business terms applicable to the production processes that exist within several industries. Industries that commonly use this terminology include the metals industry, oil, gas, biopharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. The downstream stage in the production process involves processing the materials collected during the upstream stage into a finished product. The downstream stage further includes the actual sale of that product to other businesses, governments or private individuals.
1. in the direction of a stream's current. Familiarity information: DOWNSTREAM used as an adjective is very rare. • DOWNSTREAM (adverb). The adverb DOWNSTREAM has 1 sense: 1. away from the source or with the current. Familiarity information: DOWNSTREAM used as an adverb is very rare. 