Northline has several currency exchange booths in Budapest, as well as a few located in smaller cities in Hungary. Their website is in Hungarian, however it’s still useful for their complete list of locations plus there is a handy currency converter in the sidebar. ATMs are easy to find in Budapest, and there are many options for exchanging cash. Most often, currency exchange kiosks located in tourist areas or shopping malls offer the best exchange rates. Currency exchange is also available at banks at a surcharge.
Exchange Rate Budapest. Use the currency converter below to calculate the current exchange rate for the city of Budapest. The currency used in Budapest is the Forint. Budapest is the capital of Hungary. If you are traveling to Budapest, you will need to exchange your currency for the Hungarian Forint. You may exchange your money for the Forint at most Budapest banks or at specialized stores called Foreign Exchange Bureaus. Look for signs that say Bureau De Change, Geld Wechseln or Cambio. You may be able to exchange your money at the Budapest airport, but exchange rates may not be the best.
The official currency is the Hungarian Forint (HUF) in Hungary. However you can pay with Euros at several places... Beside international and church holidays such as New Year’s Day, Easter, Labour Day, Pentecost, All Saints'Day and Christmas, Hungary has its own national holidays... 
Hungarian Currency, Costs and Money. Tweet. You'll often find that Budapest is a bargain compared to other European cities, because although Hungary is part of the European Union, it does not use the Euro as its currency. ATMs are easy to find in Budapest, and there are many options for exchanging cash. Most often, currency exchange kiosks located in tourist areas or shopping malls offer the best exchange rates. Currency exchange is also available at banks at a surcharge.
Currency in Budapest, Hungary – Money Exchange Tips. Hungary’s official currency is the forint (FT, HUF). The country is expected to join the Euro zone around 2020. TIP: It is best to pay in the local currency (you pay less than you would in EUR or other foreign currency), Forint, for most everything: services, food, in shops, tours, museum tickets etc. 
ATMs dispense Hungarian currency at your bank's daily exchange rate; however, you may be charged a foreign fee on top of the service fees. Many international banks have branches in Hungary. Currency exchange is available at the airport at a significant surcharge (10%-15%). ATMs are easy to find in Budapest, and there are many options for exchanging cash. Most often, currency exchange kiosks located in tourist areas or shopping malls offer the best exchange rates. Currency exchange is also available at banks at a surcharge.
If you do pay with Euros the shops normally give you little for your Euro, so you would do better to go change your Euros, and then go back into the shop and pay with forints (for example in McDonalds). Forint is the official currency in Hungary. If you want to understand approximately how much money you are using, normally you can calculate it in this way: 1 American Dollar = 225 Forint. 1 Euro = 300 Forint. But, due to the financial crisis going on around the world, the calculation is going up and down. It was a time when you had to pay 230 forints to get one Euro, and there have been times when you have to pay 320 forints to get one Euro. 
You will find general information about Budapest: basic facts, history, geography, currency exchange, money, prices, costs, public holidays. 
Hungary, Forint. The Hungarian Forint is the currency of Hungary. Our currency rankings show that the most popular Hungary Forint exchange rate is the HUF to EUR rate. The currency code for Forint is HUF, and the currency symbol is Ft. Below, you'll find Hungarian Forint rates and a currency converter. You can also subscribe to our currency newsletters with daily rates and analysis, read the XE Currency Blog, or take HUF rates on the go with our XE Currency Apps and website. 
The Hungarian currency is the Forint (Ft, HUF), which has the following denominations: notes - 500Ft, 1,000Ft, 2,000Ft, 5,000Ft, 10,000Ft and 20,000Ft; coins - 5Ft, 10Ft, 20Ft, 50Ft and 100Ft. ATMs are easy to find in Budapest, and there are many options for exchanging cash. Most often, currency exchange kiosks located in tourist areas or shopping malls offer the best exchange rates. Currency exchange is also available at banks at a surcharge.