Plant foods have no vitamin B12 unless they are fortified. You can get recommended amounts of vitamin B12 by eating a variety of foods including the following: 1  Beef liver and clams, which are the best sources of vitamin B12. 2  Fish, meat, poultry, eggs, milk, and other dairy products, which also contain vitamin B12. Vitamin B12 is found in almost all multivitamins. Dietary supplements that contain only vitamin B12, or vitamin B12 with nutrients such as folic acid and other B vitamins, are also available.
Vitamin D helps your body absorb calcium and many types of fish are good sources. For example, three ounces of rainbow trout delivers 645 international units of vitamin D, which is more than the 600 international units healthy adults need on a daily basis. Many types of fish deliver a good dose of vitamin E, an antioxidant that helps protect your cells from damage. Three ounces of orange roughy, for example, supplies 1.59 milligrams of vitamin E, which is about 11 percent of the 15 milligrams
Fish contains three key B vitamins including vitamins B-6, B-12 and niacin, each of which help the body metabolize foods and to support a healthy nervous system. Three ounces of yellowfin tuna is a top source of vitamin B-6 with 0.88 milligrams, which is 68 percent of the 1.3 milligrams adults need each day. Many types of fish deliver a good dose of vitamin E, an antioxidant that helps protect your cells from damage. Three ounces of orange roughy, for example, supplies 1.59 milligrams of vitamin E, which is about 11 percent of the 15 milligrams adults need on a daily basis.
There are two types of vitamins: fat-soluble and water-soluble. Fat-soluble vitamins are found mainly in fatty foods and animal products, such as vegetable oils, milk and dairy foods, eggs, liver, oily fish and butter. Water-soluble vitamins are found in a wide range of foods, including fruit, vegetables, potatoes, grains, milk and dairy foods. Unlike fat-soluble vitamins, they can be destroyed by heat or being exposed to the air. They can also be lost in water used for cooking.
1 Some types of fish, such as salmon. 2  Green leafy vegetables and other green, orange, and yellow vegetables, such as broccoli, carrots, and squash. 3  Fruits, including cantaloupe, apricots, and mangos. 4  Dairy products, which are among the major sources of vitamin A for Americans. 5  Fortified breakfast cereals. Vitamin A also helps the heart, lungs, kidneys, and other organs work properly. There are two different types of vitamin A. The first type, preformed vitamin A, is found in meat, poultry, fish, and dairy products. The second type, provitamin A, is found in fruits, vegetables, and other plant-based products.
Vitamin A is important for normal vision, the immune system, and reproduction. Vitamin A also helps the heart, lungs, kidneys, and other organs work properly. There are two different types of vitamin A. The first type, preformed vitamin A, is found in meat, poultry, fish, and dairy products. The second type, provitamin A, is found in fruits, vegetables, and other plant-based products.
An essential nutrient is a nutrient that the body cannot synthesize on its own -- or not to an adequate amount -- and must be provided by the diet. These nutrients are necessary for the body to function properly. The six essential nutrients include carbohydrates, protein, fat, vitamins, minerals and water. 