When two named species are discovered to be of the same species, the older species name is usually retained, and the newer species name dropped, a process called synonymization, or colloquially, as lumping. Dividing a taxon into multiple, often new, taxons is called splitting. Presence of specific locally adapted traits may further subdivide species into  infraspecific taxa  such as subspecies (and in botany other taxa are used, such as varieties, subvarieties, and formae). Species hypothesized to have the same ancestors are placed in one genus, based on similarities. The similarity of species is judged based on comparison of physical attributes, and where available, their DNA sequences. All species are given a two-part name, a binomial name, or just binomial
Equus is the only surviving genus in the once diverse family of horses. Domesticated about 3,000 years ago, the horse had a profound impact on human history in areas such as migration, farming, warfare, sport, communication, and travel. Species of Equus lived from 5 million years ago until the present. Species in this genus lived from 12-6 million years ago. Dinohippus is believed to be the closest relative to Equus, the genus that includes the living horses, asses and zebras. Dinohippus fossils are found in the Upper Miocene of North America and date from 13 - 5
In a phylogenetic classification, species in the same genus had a most recent common ancestor more recently than species in different genera in the same family, and so on. Finding the best cladogram • The problem is to determine the cladogram that describes the ancestry of a group. • A few groups of plants, such as those in the genus Clarkia, do not have a tree-like history. The history of Clarkia and other such groups is reticulate (net-like) in which some species have two ancestors. • Information in a phylogenetic tree: The pattern of branching indicates ancestry.
Common descent describes how, in evolutionary biology, a group of organisms share a most recent common ancestor. There is evidence of common descent that all life on Earth is descended from the last universal ancestor. Common ancestry between organisms of different species arises during speciation, in which new species are established from a single ancestral population. 
A. A group of species in the same genus. B. A group containing an ancestral species and all of its descendants. C. A group containing an ancestral species and some of its descendants. D. A group containing an ancestral species an none of its descendants. • A few groups of plants, such as those in the genus Clarkia, do not have a tree-like history. The history of Clarkia and other such groups is reticulate (net-like) in which some species have two ancestors. • Information in a phylogenetic tree: The pattern of branching indicates ancestry.
For example, Zeuner explains that the quickest pace that evolution can turn out new species is only one in every a 500,000 years. There appears to be a fastest rate of evolution of species under natural conditions, namely about 500,000 years per species-step.. —*F.E. Zeuner, Dating the Past (1948). The first word is the Genus, and the second is species. Sometimes the name of the discoverer or namer is added as a third word. The Swedish naturalist, Linnaeus, invented this method of scientific nomenclature in the 1750s.
Evolution means the changes that occur in a population over time. In this definition, a “population” means a group of the same species that share a specific location and habitat. Evolutionary changes always occur on the genetic level. In other words, evolution is a process that results in changes that are passed on or inherited from generation to generation. Homo erectus was a very successful species of the middle period; fossils have been found throughout Africa, Europe, and much of Asia, and the species may have survived for more than 1.5 million years. The final transition, from the middle to late periods, happened about 200,000 years ago.
Darwin's theory of evolution by natural selection assumed that tiny adaptations occur in organisms constantly over exceptionally long periods of time. Gradually, a new species develops that is distinct from its ancestors. evolution. n. 1. (Biology) biology a gradual change in the characteristics of a population of animals or plants over successive generations: accounts for the origin of existing species from ancestors unlike them. See also natural selection. 2. a gradual development, esp to a more complex form: the evolution of modern art