Also known as GSE or citrus seed extract, grapefruit seed extract is a derivative of the seeds, pulp and white membranes of grapefruit. The liquid, when made naturally, is rendered by grinding the grapefruit seed and pulp until finely pulverized. Once this has been achieved, glycerin is added to the mixture. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Grapefruit seed extract (GSE), also known as citrus seed extract, is a liquid extract derived from the seeds, pulp, and white membranes of grapefruit. Self-made natural GSE processed in the laboratory without synthetic agents is prepared by grinding the grapefruit seed and juiceless pulp, then mixing with glycerin. There is evidence that the extract of citrus grapefruit seed has antioxidant properties. Analysis shows the constituents of the seed extract and pulp are flavonoids, ascorbic acid (commonly known as vitamin C), tocopherols, citric acid, limonoids, sterols, and minerals.
Grapefruit, as the fruit or juice, is generally recognized as safe by the FDA. However, grapefruit affects MANY other medicines. Before taking grapefruit, talk with your healthcare provider if you take any other medicines. Do not take grapefruit seed extract products that contain preservatives. These can cause serious side effects such as vomiting, seizures, collapse, and coma. Do not get grapefruit seed extract in your eyes or nose. Do not use it on your genitals or rectum. It can cause severe irritation. If you need emergency care, surgery, or dental work, tell the healthcare provider or dentist you are taking this medicine.
However, as a non-toxic, natural remedy, it had none of the side effects of the other treatments! Grapefruit seed extract has a great selection of vitamins that can both do wonders for your general health, and also help you through your treatment for Candida overgrowth. Grapefruit seed extract is sold either as a liquid concentrate or in tablets. Both contain the vegetable glycerin, but the tablets will also contain a small amount of filler, such as organic brown rice protein.
Some studies have shown that without these contaminants, a truly natural extract of grapefruit seed and pulp in ethanol or glycerin, had no antibacterial properties. However, GSE apologists claim that GSE can be effective without these contaminants. My personal opinion on it is that it is safer than other preservatives. However, if you prescribe to an organic mindset and lifestyle, you will want to avoid Grapefruit Seed Extract, for it is nothing other than a synthetic chemical. Note: Grapefruit essential oil is natural, and not the same thing as Grapefruit Seed Extract
False positive. However, in an email statement to NutraIngredients-USA, Carolyn Pruett from NutriBiotic, a leading manufacturing of grapefruit seed extract-containing products, dismissed the allegations that the products contain synthetic disinfectants like benzethonium chloride and triclosan. By Stephen DANIELLS Stephen DANIELLS, 07-Jun-2012. Claims by a leading grapefruit seed extract product manufacturer that the detection of synthetic disinfectants in some products is related to a ‘false positive’ interpretation of analytical data have been rejected by a leading analytical expert.
Fortunately, there are some precautions you can take, and grapefruit seed extract is just one of the tools you’ll find to be helpful. Grapefruit seed extract is a totally natural, effective antimicrobial product. 
Grapefruit is a citrus fruit. People use the fruit, oil from the peel, and extracts from the seed as medicine. Grapefruit seed extract is processed from grapefruit seeds and pulp obtained as a byproduct from grapefruit juice production. Vegetable glycerin is added to the final product to reduce acidity and bitterness. Some people inhale grapefruit vapors to help the body retain water, for headache, stress, and depression. Grapefruit seed extract vapor has also been inhaled for the treatment of lung infections. In food and beverages, grapefruit is consumed as a fruit, juice, and is used as a flavoring component. In manufacturing, grapefruit oil and seed extract are used as a fragrance component in soaps and cosmetics; and as a household cleaner for fruits, vegetables, meats, kitchen surfaces, dishes, etc