Just because it was ordered 2 weeks ago, does not mean that it was shipped immediately. You can also try the number at the Canada Post website Tracking. It has happened that even First Class Mail International packages get scanned in Canada when they clear Customs. The main thing is to determine when it was actually entered in to the mailstream. Source(s): 24 year Postal Worker. bulkmailtech_usps · 7 years ago
This Site Might Help You. RE: how long will USPS first class mail take? ive read that it takes approximately 3-5 business days. what bothers me is the word &quot;approximately&quot; I am located in singapore, but have a friend in the US who is currently in the US. he is leaving the states on the 8th of May. USPS first class mail takes anywhere from 3 days to 14 days depending on when they process it, if the address is legible, etc. The average seems to be 7-10 days as of lately, unless you are shipping it within the same cit
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: USPS first class mail in the United States from state to state takes 2-3 business days. Priority mail takes 2 days but it is not guaranteed. This will also depend on how long the ebay shipper takes to ship the item-some take up to 5 days if they are high volume. USPS first class mail takes anywhere from 3 days to 14 days depending on when they process it, if the address is legible, etc. The average seems to be 7-10 days as of lately, unless you are shipping it within the same city
RE: How long does a first class mail take to deliver within UK? hi i ordered a game form Amazon.co.uk and payed extra for a first class mail and basically i was wondering how long it takes for a package to get delivered through 1st Class Mail. the deliver will take place within UK so its not coming from another country.
But their Priority Mail (which is just slightly faster than First Class Mail within the U.S.) says 6 to 10 business days. So, even something like 3 to 4 weeks for First Class International wouldn't surprise me that much. In any event, you may want to wait for another week or so, and then complain to your postal service and/or the USPS. But since it's not registered or insured, it's unlikely they'll be able to do much.
First-Class Mail® is a fast, affordable way to send envelopes and lightweight packages. It’s perfect for business and personal correspondence, cards, brochures, and lightweight merchandise. The Forever® Stamp price is $0.49; First-Class Mail Postcard Stamp price is $0.35. 
When mailing envelops and small packages weighing 13 oz or less First Class Mail is the most economical shipping option. The deliver schedule for First Class Mail is two to three days within the United States. To send this type of mail outside of the country the USPS offers two shipping options depending on the mailer’s desire. The delivery scheduled is six to ten business days. The second option is Priority Mail International Flat Rate that ships packages up to 12 ¼” X 12 ¼” X 6” in size with a maximum weight limit of 70 lbs and has a delivery schedule of six to ten business days. 3.
First-Class Mail. In most cases, the first-class mailing option takes from one to three days on average and three to five days for delivery to Alaska and Hawaii. To use the first-class mail option, prices are based on weight of up to 13 ounces maximum. You can only mail postcards, greeting cards, letters, envelopes or packages via this service.
Timeframe. The United States Postal Services reports that as of January 2011, it takes an average of one to three days for First-Class Mail to arrive at its destination. Priority Mail takes an average of one to two days to arrive, according to the USPS. USPS only includes the time a package stays in transit in their estimations. 