Drizzle with olive oil. Add cinnamon and sea salt. Massage well with your fingers, coating all the pumpkin. Spread in a single layer onto 1 or 2 prepared baking trays. Roast for 40 – 45 minutes or until the pumpkin is soft and caramelised. Enjoy and use as required. Pumpkin cooks quickly and it normally takes about 40 – 45 minutes before it is ready to remove from the oven. Serve as a side to your favourites such as green burgers, steamed white fish, the perfect kale salad or smash into the ultimate pumpkin soup or moorish pumpkin scones.
Place the pumpkin in a glass baking dish, and transfer to the oven to roast for 45-60 minutes, depending on the size of your pumpkin. The pumpkin is ready when the flesh is darker, and the skin can be easily pierced with a fork. Cut the pumpkin in half, and allow to cool for 20-30 minutes, until cool enough to handle. 
1 Bring the water to a boil. 2  Place seeds into the boiling water and boil gently for about 10 minutes. 3  This helps cook the insides of your pumpkin seeds so when you go to roast them you will get perfect pumpkins seeds crunch insuring the insides are cooked. 1 Place seeds into the boiling water and boil gently for about 10 minutes. 2  This helps cook the insides of your pumpkin seeds so when you go to roast them you will get perfect pumpkins seeds crunch insuring the insides are cooked. 3  Turn off the heat and drain the seeds and place back into your empty bowl.
5. Roast seeds at 325F for 10 minutes. Remove from oven and stir. Roast for another 8-10 minutes (if your oven temp is wonky, this bake time could vary a lot!). During the last 5 minutes of roasting, remove a few seeds and crack open to make sure the inner seeds are not burning (you don’t want the inner seed brown). Cool a couple and pop them into your mouth to test. 2. Boil for 10 minutes in salt water. Using Elise’s method for inspiration, I added the pumpkin seeds to a medium-sized pot of water along with 1 tsp salt. Bring it to a boil and reduce the heat to simmer, uncovered, for about 10 minutes over low-medium heat.
You can roast pumpkin with or without the skin – depending on the purpose of the final dish. I love cutting Jap pumpkin into large wholesome chunks and generously drizzling with quality olive oil before sprinkling with celtic sea salt and a decent amount ground cinnamon. Pumpkin cooks quickly and it normally takes about 40 – 45 minutes before it is ready to remove from the oven. Serve as a side to your favourites such as green burgers, steamed white fish, the perfect kale salad or smash into the ultimate pumpkin soup or moorish pumpkin scones.
5. Set cleaned pumpkin halves on a lightly oiled baking sheet. Roast in a preheated 375°F oven (the temperature is actually quite flexibly – anywhere in the 350-425 range will yield results) until tender enough to pierce easily with a fork through the shell, about an hour. Scooping Roasted Pumpkin. Roast the Pumpkins. Set cleaned pumpkin halves on a lightly oiled baking sheet. Roast in a preheated 375°F oven (the temperature is actually quite flexibly – anywhere in the 350-425 range will yield results) until tender enough to pierce easily with a fork through the shell, about an hour. Scooping Roasted Pumpkin.