The cellular components of blood include erythrocytes (red blood cells), leukocytes (white blood cells), and platelets. Normal human blood contains 4.8 - 5.2 million erythrocytes/ m l and 4000 - 10,000 leukocytes/ m l. Leukocytes are divided into five classes based on morphological and tinctorial characteristics when stained. The five classes of leukocytes are: 1  neutrophils (40% - 75%). 2  eosinophils (1% - 6%). 3  basophils (less than 1%).
Monocytes account for 2 to 10 percent of all leukocytes. They are agranulocytes, meaning that their cytoplasm lacks granules. These cells spend up to a day in the bloodstream before moving into tissues (generally the liver, lungs and lymph nodes). Eosinophils. Eosinophils comprise 1 to 6 percent of the total leukocyte count. Like neutrophils, eosinophils migrate from the bone marrow to the extravascular tissue, where they wait for an infection to occur. Eosinophils can survive in this tissue for several weeks.
Types of Leukocytes. Leukocytes, which is an alternate name for white blood cells, are responsible for a stronger immune system of the body. They are present throughout our body, including the blood and lymphatic system, to safeguard our body from infectious diseases and unknown bodies that enter our system to harm us. Leukocyte is another name for white blood cells. There are different types of leukocytes that exist in our body, each having a significant function of their own. This Buzzle article discusses the various kinds and functions of each kind
Monocytes and neutrophils are phagocytic. The number of leukocytes in the blood is often an indicator of disease, and thus the WBC count is an important subset of the complete blood count. The normal white cell count is usually between 4 and 11 × 10 9 /L. In the US this is usually expressed as 4,000–11,000 white blood cells per microliter of blood.
White blood cells (WBCs), also called leukocytes or leucocytes, are the cells of the immune system that are involved in protecting the body against both infectious disease and foreign invaders. All leukocytes are produced and derived from a multipotent cell in the bone marrow known as a hematopoietic stem cell. Leukocytes are found throughout the body, including the blood and lymphatic system. Five different and diverse types of leukocytes exist. The number of leukocytes in the blood is often an indicator of disease, and thus the WBC count is an important subset of the complete blood count. The normal white cell count is usually between 4 and 11 × 10 9 /L. In the US this is usually expressed as 4,000–11,000 white blood cells per microliter of blood.
Photo Credit Injection with Blood 3 image by Svenja98 from Fotolia.com. Leukocytes, or white blood cells, are vital to the body’s ability to fight off infection and promote healing. There are five types of leukocytes, each with distinct morphologies and functions. Monocytes use phagocytosis to ingest cellular debris and cancer cells. Antibody production is another function of leukocytes. This process is vital in addressing the threat of repeat infections. Antibodies are produced by lymphocytes in response to the presence of a foreign invader, known as an antigen.
Leukocytes, or white blood cells, are vital to the body’s ability to fight off infection and promote healing. Monocytes use phagocytosis to ingest cellular debris and cancer cells. Antibody production is another function of leukocytes. This process is vital in addressing the threat of repeat infections. Antibodies are produced by lymphocytes in response to the presence of a foreign invader, known as an antigen.
Neutrophils are the commonest type of white blood cell found in a blood smear. They make up 60-70% of the total amount of white blood cells. Neutrophils have 3 types of granules: 1  azure granules (lysosomes), 2  secretory granules in salmon pink cytoplasm, anti-microbial enzymes. 
Granular vs. Nongranular Cytoplasm. The five types of leukocytes are divided into two categories: granulocytes and nongranulocytes. Neutrophils, eosinophils and basophils are granulocytes. These contain visible granules in their cytoplasm when stained and observed under a microscope. Monocytes use phagocytosis to ingest cellular debris and cancer cells. Antibody production is another function of leukocytes. This process is vital in addressing the threat of repeat infections. Antibodies are produced by lymphocytes in response to the presence of a foreign invader, known as an antigen.