Gallbladder disease is more common in women, overweight people, people with gastro-intestinal problems and those with high blood cholesterol levels. Gallstones are the primary cause of gallbladder disease; however, two uncommon causes are gallbladder cancer and gallbladder attack, or Cholecystitis.
The gallbladder is a small organ that is located near the upper right quadrant of the stomach under the ribcage. It stores bile that is produced by the liver and later secretes this bile into the intestines, where it assists in digesting fats.
Nausea and vomiting is one of the most experienced symptoms of a bad gallbladder. When the gallbladder is not utilizing bile efficiently, the body becomes less able to digest fats that are ingested through dietary intake. This results in cases of nausea and sometimes vomiting.
Assess your pain. Gallbladder problems can often manifest as pain in the upper abdomen that radiates to your right shoulder. This pain can either be constant or it can come and go, depending on the cause of the specific gallbladder problem. 1  This pain may be worse after a meal that is high in fat.
Check your stools. One of the clearest signs of a gallbladder problem is stools that are light or chalky in color stools. Lighter, loose stools may be the result of insufficient bile. You may also have darker than usual urine with no change in water consumption.
Yes, pale and loose stools are very common symptoms of a malfunctioning gallbladder. It apparently has to to with your gallbladder not releasing bile when it should. The ultrasound does not always show crystals and sludge in the
1 Gall bladder symptoms and Loose stool and Abdominal pain (3 causes). 2  Gall bladder symptoms and Loose stool and Abdominal symptoms (3 causes). 3  Gall bladder symptoms and Loose stool and Anal symptoms (3 causes). 4  Gall bladder symptoms and Loose stool and Bleeding
Stool is normally brown due to the digestion of bile salts, which are produced in the liver and stored in the gallbladder. A reduction in bile salts due to liver disease, gall stones, and other conditions causes the stool to be pale. Dark stool can be due to dark foods, medications, or supplements, or may be due to digestive tract bleeding, which can result in red, maroon, or even black, tarry stool.
1 Gall bladder symptoms and Loose stool and Bowel incontinence (3 causes). 2  Gall bladder symptoms and Loose stool and Bowel movements (3 causes). 3  Gall bladder symptoms and Loose stool and Bowel problems (3 causes). 4  Gall bladder symptoms and Loose stool and Constipation