GAEA: Gæa latin form Of Greek, gaia meaning.. Earth Her roman name Is. terra. 12 (GAIA): γαiα γαîα greek name.. Meaning earth, in mythology this is the name of the goddess, of earth the Wife of uranus and mother Of. the titans HERMIA: Feminine form of Latin Hermes, meaning of the earth. 33. HERMIONE (῾ερμιόνη): Greek name derived from the name of the god Hermes, hermês meaning of the.. Earth in, mythology this is the name of the daughter Of menelaus And. helen
From a surname meaning triangle land from Old English gara and land ... [more]. GEORGE m English, Romanian. From the Greek name γεωργιος (Georgios) which was derived from the Greek word γεωργος (georgos) meaning farmer, earthworker, itself derived from the elements γη (ge) earth and εργον (ergon) work ... TYRONE m English. From the name of a county in Northern Ireland which is derived from Irish Gaelic Tir Eoghain meaning land of EOGHAN  ... [more]. WIELAND m German, Germanic Mythology. Derived from the Germanic elements wela possibly meaning skill and land meaning land ...
George-George is a name of Latin origin meaning earth worker or farmer. Georgia-Georgia is a girl's name of Latin origin meaning one who works the Earth or farmer. Gretel-Gretel is an Eastern European variant of the name Margarite which derives from the Greek meaning pearl. Ingrid-Ingrid is a Norse name meaning Lord's beauty. Mason-Mason is a boy's name of English origin meaning stone worker. It is also evocative of the Freemasons. Maunalani-Maunalani is a Hawaiian name meaning Mountain that reaches the sky (or heavens). Mokosh-Mokosh is a Russian Earth Goddess who rules over fertility and midwifery, marriage and household chores.
From the Greek word γαια (gaia) , a parallel form of γη (ge) meaning earth ... [more]. GEORGE m English, Romanian. From the Greek name γεωργιος (Georgios) which was derived from the Greek word γεωργος (georgos) meaning farmer, earthworker, itself derived from the elements γη (ge) earth and εργον (ergon) work ... [more]. ILA f Indian. Means earth or speech in Sanskrit
Boy Earth Names. Adam: The meaning of this name is earth and in Hebrew this is actually a general term for man.. In the Christian Bible, Adam was the first man made from the red earth of Eden. Clay: This name comes from a naturally occurring substance in the earth.
Earth is the modern form of the Old English word eorthe. It derives from an Indo-European root-er3, meaning the ground. Erde (personified as Erda) is the German form of word earth. It derives from an Indo-European root *er-. ANSWER: It comes from the olde English word erda. Answer2: The name earth is Egyptian. Earth is the phonetic name used by the Egyptians to describe themselves.
Meaning: Earth. Find meaning of name. Find Surname (Family name) information. List of Names that means 'Earth'. List of Surnames that means 'Earth'. Name. Origin. Meaning. Gender. 
The name Earth has the following meaning: Old English for Earth. It was used by the Puritans in the 17th century. It is a female name, suitable for baby girls. Origins. The name Earth is very likely a(n) Old English variant of the name Eartha. See other suggested Old English girl baby names. You might also like to see the other variants of the name Eartha.
Means famous land from the Germanic elements hrod fame and land ... [more]. RYLAN m English (Modern). Possibly a variant of the English surname Ryland, which was originally derived from a place name meaning rye land in Old English. TYRONE m English. From the name of a county in Northern Ireland which is derived from Irish Gaelic Tir Eoghain meaning land of EOGHAN  ... [more]. WIELAND m German, Germanic Mythology. Derived from the Germanic elements wela possibly meaning skill and land meaning land ...