More compatibility for Sagittarius: Sagittarius & Aries Sagittarius & Cancer Sagittarius & Libra Sagittarius & Capricorn Sagittarius & Taurus Sagittarius & Leo Sagittarius & Scorpio Sagittarius & Aquarius Sagittarius & Gemini Sagittarius & Virgo Sagittarius & Sagittarius Sagittarius & Pisces.
Summary of Sagittarius compatibility. The most compatible signs with Sagittarius are generally considered to be Aries, Leo, Libra and Aquarius. The least compatible signs with Sagittarius are generally considered to be Virgo and Pisces. Comparing sun signs can give a good general idea of
There are three main signs that work quite well with Sagittarius: Aries, Leo and Libra. Of course, there are signs that are mildly compatible as well such as Sagittarius, Cancer, Gemini and Taurus. Incompatible signs include Virgo, Scorpio, Capricorn, Aquarius and Pisces. Finding true love is a challenge.
The best compatible signs for Sagittarius are Aries and Leo. They also get along with fellow Sagittarius, Libra and Aquarius. When Leo and Sagittarius join together in a love … match, the result is often fireworks! Both Signs are extremely dynamic and enjoy life to the fullest.
Sagittarius (aka the Archer) is a Fire sign, which makes it compatible with all Fire signs (Aries, Leo and, of course, other Sagittarians). Sagittarius also enjoys good compatibility with Air signs (Aquarius, Gemini and Libra).
As a star sign ruled by the element of Fire, your safest bet, Sagittarius, is probably one of the other two Fire signs, i.e. ARIES or LEO. The favorable 120° – or 4 signs – spacing between Zodiac signs in the same element makes for an especially harmonious relationship and a level of compatibility well above the norm.
Traditionally Sagittarius compatibility is with all the other fire signs: Aries and Leo; it is pretty good also with the air signs: Gemini, Libra, and Aquarius; it has a so-so compatibility with Taurus and Cancer; and it can have quite a problem with Virgo and Pisces.
Sagittarius Compatibility with the Other Signs Sagittarius is a questing, far-reaching, and sometimes arrogant sign; Sagittarius compatibility is something that needs some explaining.