As the food is digested in the small intestine and dissolved into the juice from the pancreas, liver, and intestine, the contents of the intestine are mixed and pushed forward to allow further digestion. Finally, all of the digested nutrients are absorbed through the intestinal walls. 
The small intestine is made up of three parts: the duodenum, jejunum and ileum. The stomach empties into the duodenum through the pyloric sphincter. Hormonal control regulates the rate of stomach emptying into the duodenum. The digested food passes into the capillaries and lymphatic vessels in the wall of the intestine. Nutrients such as glucose and amino acids are absorbed into capillaries, while fats are absorbed into the lymph vessels. The ileum is the last section of the small
1 The ileum is the final section of the small intestine that empties into the large intestine via the ileocecal sphincter. 2  The ileum is about 6 feet long and completes the absorption of nutrients that were missed in the jejunum. The small intestine is, however, about twice the length of the large intestine and usually measures about 10 feet in length. The small intestine winds throughout the abdominal cavity inferior to the stomach. Its many folds help it to pack all 10 feet of its length into such a small body cavity...
As the food is digested in the small intestine and dissolved into the juice from the pancreas, liver, and intestine, the contents of the intestine are mixed and pushed forward to allow further digestion. Finally, all of the digested nutrients are absorbed through the intestinal walls. How long does food stay in the small intestine   How long does food stay in the small intestine   Source: http://www.general-health-care.com/generalhealthcare/a1465.html …   Your argument stems from the fact that you probably don't enjoy the same definition of
Small Intestine. The small intestine extends from the pyloric sphincter to the ileocecal valve, where it empties into the large intestine. The small intestine finishes the process of digestion, absorbs the nutrients, and passes the residue on to the large intestine. The liver, gallbladder, and pancreas are accessory organs of the digestive system that are closely associated with the small intestine. The small intestine is divided into the duodenum, jejunum, and ileum. The small intestine follows the general structure of the digestive tract in that the wall has a mucosa with simple columnar epithelium, submucosa, smooth muscle with inner circular and outer longitudinal layers, and serosa
The ileum, being the last part of the small intestine, is the section that empties chyme into the beginning … of the large intestine, which is the cecum. Chyme is released from the ileum through the ileocecal valve, a sphincter muscle, and into the cecum. How long does food stay in the small intestine   How long does food stay in the small intestine   Source: http://www.general-health-care.com/generalhealthcare/a1465.html …   Your argument stems from the fact that you probably don't enjoy the same definition of digestion.
The small intestine can be divided into 3 major regions: 1  The duodenum is the first section of intestine that connects to the pyloric sphincter of the stomach. 2  It is the shortest region of the small intestine, measuring only about 10 inches in length. The small intestine is, however, about twice the length of the large intestine and usually measures about 10 feet in length. The small intestine winds throughout the abdominal cavity inferior to the stomach. Its many folds help it to pack all 10 feet of its length into such a small body cavity...
The small intestine is part of the gastrointestinal tract. Chyme from the stomach empties into the small intestine. The small intestine is responsible for most chemical digestion of food, and absorption of nutrients including proteins, lipids (fats) and carbohydrates. The digested food passes into the capillaries and lymphatic vessels in the wall of the intestine. Nutrients such as glucose and amino acids are absorbed into capillaries, while fats are absorbed into the lymph vessels. The ileum is the last section of