Making the world better, one answer at a time. Hilde is a name that means ready for battle.. It is generally used for females and has German origin. Other variations include Hilda and Holda. 
[ 2 syll. hil-da, hi-lda ] The baby girl name Hilda is pronounced as HH IH L-Dah in English or HH IH L-Daa in Dutch and German †. Hilda is used chiefly in the English, German, and Scandinavian languages, and it is derived from Germanic origins. In addition, Hilda is a short form of the name Hildegard (English and German). Hilda has 20 variants that are used in English and other languages. Variants used in English include Hildah, Hilde, Hildee, Hildey, Hildi, Hildia, Hildur, Hillda, Hilldy, Hulda, Hyldea, Hyldi, and Hyldy. The diminutive forms Hildie and Hildy, and the variant spelling Hylda are other English forms
In Teutonic the meaning of the name Hilda is: Battle-maiden. English Meaning: The name Hilda is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Hilda is: Battle. Battle maid. German Meaning: The name Hilda is a German baby name. In German the meaning of the name Hilda is: Battle. Glorious, warfare. American Meaning: The name Hilda is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Hilda is: Fighter. Anglo-Saxon Meaning: The name Hilda is an Anglo-Saxon baby name. In Anglo-Saxon the meaning of the name Hilda is: War.
Hilde /hil-de/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is of Old German origin, and the name Hilde means ready for battle; battle woman; battle stronghold. Hilde is a variant transcription of Brunhilda (Old German). Hilde is also a variant of Hilda (Old German). Hilde is also used as a form of Hildegarde (Old German). Kreatif forms: Hilhe, Hilme
German children are given one or many pre-names (vornames). Only one of these names however is used as their main name or call name (rufname). Parents choose a name because they like it or they may name a child after a relative. Religious catholics frequently give saints names as secondary names. Some combinations of male first and second names such as Hans-Joseph are traditionally hyphenated. The maximum number of first names is five.
Hilde is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 5 letters and 1 syllable and is pronounced Hilde. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 11229 in baby name popularity for girls with 9 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. Parents choose a name because they like it or they may name a child after a relative. Religious catholics frequently give saints names as secondary names. Some combinations of male first and second names such as Hans-Joseph are traditionally hyphenated. The maximum number of first names is five.
Hilda /hil-da/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced HILL-dah. It is of Old German origin, and the meaning of Hilda is battle woman. Saint Hilda (seventh century) was a much-esteemed abbess of her time in England. 
Meaning of Hilde. English name. In English, the name Hilde means-Battle maid.. Other origins for the name Hilde include-English, Scandinavian, German.The name Hilde is most often used as a girl name or female name. English Name Meaning-Battle maid. Origin-English. 