Beryllium is found in some 30 mineral species, the most important of which are bertrandite, beryl, chrysoberyl, and phenacite. Aquamarine and emerald are precious forms of beryl. Beryl and bertrandite are the most important commercial sources of the element and its compounds. Most of the metal is now prepared by reducing beryllium fluoride with magnesium metal. Beryllium metal did not become readily available to industry until 1957.
Beryllium is found in about 30 different mineral species. The most important are beryl (beryllium aluminium silicate) and bertrandite (beryllium silicate). Emerald and aquamarine are precious forms of beryl. The metal is usually prepared by reducing beryllium fluoride with magnesium metal.
Beryllium is alloyed with copper (2% beryllium, 98% copper) to form a wear resistant material, known as beryllium bronze, used in gyroscopes and other devices where wear resistance is important. History and Uses: Although emeralds and beryl were known to ancient civilizations, they were first recognized as the same mineral (Be 3 Al 2 (SiO 3) 6) by Abbe Abbé hauey haüy. In 1798 later, That-Year Louis, nicholas Vauquelin a, french chemist discovered that an unknown element was present in emeralds. and beryl
Confidence votes 1.4K. Beryllium (Be) will combine in a 1-1 ratio with elements from group 16. It will combine in a 1-2 ratio with elements from group 17 (the halogens.) It will combine in a 3-2 ratio with elements from group 15. Examples: beryllium oxide-BeO; beryllium chloride-BeCl2; beryllium nitride-Be3N2.
Beryllium is an industrial metal with some attractive attributes. It’s lighter than aluminum and 6x stronger than steel. It’s usually combined with other metals and is a key component in the aerospace and electronics industries. Beryllium is also used in the production of nuclear weapons. With that, you may not be surprised to learn that beryllium is one of the most toxic elements in existence. Beryllium is a Class A EPA carcinogen and exposure can cause Chronic Beryllium Disease, an often fatal lung disease. 
Facts About Beryllium. Fact #1: It is considered to be one of the lightest elements, in terms of weight. Fact #2: During the discovery of beryllium in the 1700s, it was first learned that the beryl mineral (when combined with emerald) produced a sweet-smelling substance. The primary source of element beryllium comes from the beryl mineral. The molecular weight of beryllium is 9.0g/mol. With regards to its physical properties, the color of beryllium is steel gray. Known to be a brittle metal, it is relatively soft.
Beryllium is a chemical element known to have an atomic number of 4 and atomic symbol of Be. Used in ancient civilizations, beryllium as an element was discovered during the 1700s and 1800s. Contributing scientists include Rene-Just Hauy, Louis Nicolas Vauquelin, Antoine Bussy, and Friedrich Wohler. The primary source of element beryllium comes from the beryl mineral. The molecular weight of beryllium is 9.0g/mol. With regards to its physical properties, the color of beryllium is steel gray. Known to be a brittle metal, it is relatively soft.
Beryllium is mostly used as an alloy when combined with elements like copper, nickel and aluminum, it forms materials that are lighter, tougher and more corrosion resistant than similar alloys. The fourth element on the periodic table, beryllium is certainly less well known than some of its single-digit neighbours like oxygen and helium. But this obscure element has many high tech fans and is poised to become an essential material of the future.
Beryllium is used industrially in three forms: as a pure metal, as beryllium oxide, and most commonly, as an alloy with copper, aluminum, magnesium, or nickel. Beryllium oxide (called beryllia) is known for its high heat capacity and is an important component of certain sensitive electronic equipment. 
The lightest chemical elements are hydrogen and helium, both created by Big Bang nucleosynthesis during the first 20 minutes of the universe in a ratio of around 3:1 by mass (or 12:1 by number of atoms), along with tiny traces of the next two elements, lithium and beryllium. The mass number of an element, A, is the number of nucleons (protons and neutrons) in the atomic nucleus. Different isotopes of a given element are distinguished by their mass numbers, which are conventionally written as a superscript on the left hand side of the atomic symbol (e.g., 238 U).