Hydrogen Atom. Hydrogen atom is the first element in the periodic table. Hydrogen atom has one electron and one proton. Therefore, it has the electron configuration of 1s 1. It only has one electron filled in the s-sub orbital where two electrons can be accommodated. Therefore, hydrogen atom is unstable and very reactive in order to obtain a stable electron configuration. • Hydrogen atom has one proton and one electron, whereas hydrogen ion has one proton, but no electrons. • Because of the release of one electron, the hydrogen ion radius differs from the atomic radius. • Hydrogen atom is more reactive than the ion because it is more unstable.
Hydrogen is a chemical element with chemical symbol H and atomic number 1. With an atomic weight of 7000100794000000000♠1.00794 u, hydrogen is the lightest element on the periodic table. Its monatomic form (H) is the most abundant chemical substance in the universe, constituting roughly 75% of all baryonic mass. Non-remnant stars are mainly composed of hydrogen in its plasma state.
1. hydrogen atom-an atom of hydrogen. hydrogen ion-a positively charged atom of hydrogen; that is to say, a normal hydrogen atomic nucleus. atom - (physics and chemistry) the smallest component of an element having the chemical properties of the element. 
Hydrogen has 1 as its atomic number. That's because it has one proton in its nucleus. Hydrogen has three isotopes. Each isotope has one proton in its nucleus (naturally, … because that's what makes it hydrogen). Atomic mass is the number of protons plus the number of neutrons in an atom's nucleus. Let's look at each isotope of hydrogen.   Simple hydrogen has only the 1 proton in its nucleus.
The chemical symbol of hydrogen is H. It is an element with atomic number 1, this means that 1 proton is found in the nucleus of hydrogen. Hydrogen is the lightest, simplest and most commonly found chemical element in the Universe, making up around 75% of its elemental mass. 
A Hydrogen atom consists of a proton and an electron which are “bound” together – the proton (positive charge) and electron (negative charge) stay together and continually interact with each other. If the electron escapes, the Hydrogen atom (now a single proton) is positively ionized. A Hydrogen atom is an electron and proton bound by the electromagnetic force (an attractive force between oppositely charged particles). Because the electron is so much less massive than protons, early physicists visualized the electron as being like a tiny planet which orbited the proton which acted like a tiny sun.
The hydrogen bond is really a special case of dipole forces. A hydrogen bond is the attractive force between the hydrogen attached to an electronegative atom of one molecule and an electronegative atom of a different molecule. Usually the electronegative atom is oxygen, nitrogen, or fluorine, which has a partial negative charge. The hydrogen then has the partial positive charge. 
Hydrogen is the simplest kind of atom, and in the very earliest days after the Big Bang hydrogen was the only kind of atom in the new Universe. A hydrogen atom, like other atoms, has a nucleus. The nucleus of a hydrogen atom is made of just one proton. Around the nucleus, there is just one electron, which goes around and around the nucleus. Eagle Nebula. The first hydrogen atoms in space gradually grouped together into clumps called nebulae.
A hydrogen atom is an atom of the chemical element hydrogen. The electrically neutral atom contains a single positively charged proton and a single negatively charged electron bound to the nucleus by the Coulomb force. Atomic hydrogen constitutes about 75% of the elemental (baryonic) mass of the universe. The Rydberg constant RM for a hydrogen atom (one electron), R is given by: where M is the mass of the atomic nucleus. For hydrogen-1, the quantity is about 1/1836 (i.e. the electron-to-proton mass ratio). For deuterium and tritium, the ratios are about 1/3670 and 1/5497 respectively.