UPC stands for Universal Product Code. Retail products sold within the U.S. and Canada feature a single standard UPC barcode. The exceptions to this rule are: alcohol (beer, liquor, wine), books, greeting cards, magazines, and prescription drugs. Retail products sold outside of North America feature an EAN barcode. In the past, UPC bar codes consisted of a manufacturer’s number (also called a company prefix), a product number, and a check digit. The first six digits of a UPC bar code were referred to as the manufacturing number that always remained constant on all of a company’s products.
For example a UPC-E barcode with the number 654321 would expand to the UPC-A 065100004327 or 165100004324, depending on the parity pattern of the encoded digits, as described next. UPC-E check digits are calculated using this expanded string in the same way as used by UPC-A. To allow the use of UPC barcodes on smaller packages where a full 12-digit barcode may not fit, a 'zero-suppressed' version of UPC was developed called UPC-E, in which the number system digit and all trailing zeros in the manufacturer code and all leading zeros in the product code are suppressed (omitted).
The Universal Product Code (UPC) is a barcode symbology (i.e., a specific type of barcode) that is widely used in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, Australia, New Zealand, and in other countries for tracking trade items in stores. To allow the use of UPC barcodes on smaller packages where a full 12-digit barcode may not fit, a 'zero-suppressed' version of UPC was developed called UPC-E, in which the number system digit and all trailing zeros in the manufacturer code and all leading zeros in the product code are suppressed (omitted).
Universal Product Codes, or simply known as a UPC, is a 12 digit long number that appears on the majority of all United States products. These barcodes were originally intended to help grocery and department stores speed up their checkout process. 
Most products put into distribution require a valid UPC or EAN code, also known as GTIN [Global Trade Item Number]. Here at Code UPC we offer an instant solution. Once payment is completed the UPC codes are generated instantly on the checkout page and a copy is delivered via email. Our UPC codes work with online retailers such as Amazon, Google, Yahoo, Bing, shopping comparison sites, itunes, Pandora, we also provide UPC codes to many local retailers. You'll have unlimited access to our barcode generator and if you don't want to print your own barcode labels, we offer full service printing.
Internet UPC Database Welcome to the Internet UPC Database! This free service is run as a hobby of mine. The information indexed here seems to be of use to many people for a variety of reasons. This site isn't limited to UPCs any more. First of all, the term 'UPC' has been deprecated; the new term is UCC-12. But the world has moved beyond that. As of January 2005, retailers in the U.S. are supposed to be able to support the EAN/UCC-13 code (the rest of the world has done this for years), which uses similar symbology, and one additional digit. Internet UPC Database.
Universal product codes — UPCs — are the 12-digit numbers that appear under the barcodes on many U.S. products. They are given out by GS1 US, a nonprofit group that sets standards for international commerce. 
Your source for UPC Codes. Welcome to Code UPC! We deliver UPC codes, EAN codes and barcodes to merchants worldwide. All types of businesses are welcome including amazon sellers, google merchants, yahoo merchants, online and local retailers. Our UPC codes work with online retailers such as Amazon, Google, Yahoo, Bing, shopping comparison sites, itunes, Pandora, we also provide UPC codes to many local retailers. You'll have unlimited access to our barcode generator and if you don't want to print your own barcode labels, we offer full service printing.
When you see a product for sale in a store, the UPC code on that product had to be purchased by the manufacturer in order to legally have the rights to that UPC code number. What you are technically paying for when you purchase UPC codes is the 12-digit UPC number itself. The traditional barcode image with the vertical lines that you see on products is called the barcode image. The barcode image is generated from the 12 digit UPC code number. Choose from one of the above UPC packages. Remember: You need 1 UPC code per product variation. This means that if you sell a shirt that comes in 5 sizes and 5 colors, you'll need 25 UPC codes for that shirt style.
The next five digits -- 00039 -- are the item number. A person employed by the manufacturer, called the UPC coordinator, is responsible for assigning item numbers to products, making sure the same code is not used on more than one product, retiring codes as products are removed from the product line, etc. UPC stands for Universal Product Code. UPC bar codes were originally created to help grocery stores speed up the checkout process and keep better track of inventory, but the system quickly spread to all other retail products because it was so successful.