Disaccharides are formed when two monosaccharides are joined together and a molecule of water is removed, a process known as dehydration reaction. For example; milk sugar (lactose) is made from glucose and galactose whereas the sugar from sugar cane and sugar beets (sucrose) is made from glucose and fructose. Maltose, another notable disaccharide, is made up of two glucose molecules. The two monosaccharides are bonded via a dehydration reaction (also called a condensation reaction or dehydration synthesis) that leads to the loss of a molecule of water and formation of a glycosidic bond. 
Maple syrup also contains sucrose. Maltose is derived from the coupling of two molecules of glucose. It is produced when the enzyme amylase breaks down starch. Maltose is formed in germinating cereal grains and is important in the production of alcohol by fermentation. This is a disaccharide of galactose and glucose. 
Maltose (/ˈmɔːltoʊs/ or /ˈmɔːltoʊz/), also known as maltobiose or malt sugar, is a disaccharide formed from two units of glucose joined with an α(1→4) bond, formed from a condensation reaction. The isomer isomaltose has two glucose molecules linked through an α(1→6) bond. The production of maltose is based on the hydrolysis of starch, compound by glucose units α(1→4) and α(1→6) linked, meaning that the carbon number 1 is linked by a glycosidic bond to the carbon number 4 or 6 of the other glucose.
Maltose is made from two glucose units and used in alcohol production. Chemical Formula: C 12 H 22 O 11. Other names: alpha-maltose, malt sugar. Layman's explanation: Maltose is a white crystalline sugar formed during digestion of starches. It is present in germinating grain and in a small proportion of corn syrup, and it forms on the partial hydrolysis of starch. Maltose is a disaccharide made up of two glucose molecules. It is an isomer of sucrose and lactose which means that it has the same chemical formula but differs from both in structure
Maltose. Maltose is made from two glucose units: Maltose or malt sugar is the least common disaccharide in nature. It is present in germinating grain, in a small proportion in corn syrup, and forms on the partial hydrolysis of starch. It is a reducing sugar. The two glucose units are joined by an acetal oxygen bridge in the alpha orientation.
The enzyme speeds that reaction up tremendously. For example, the sugar maltose is made from two glucose molecules bonded together. The enzyme maltase is shaped in such a way that it can break the bond and free the two glucose pieces. The only thing maltase can do is break maltose molecules, but it can do that very rapidly and efficiently. 
Maltose is made up of two units of glucose that make up maltose and form its special bond. This bond between the two glucoses is made when you break down amylase with starch and then as a disaccharide maltose is formed. Maltose appears as a white powder or as crystals and is soluble in water at 1,080 g/mL. Sucrose,Lactose,Trehalose,Cellobiose. Maltose is an organic compound-is a disaccharide formed from glucose molecules. Although many people do not know what maltose is, it is a fundamental part in many foods. Maltose is key in the process of life in the natural world in plants, animals and as well in humans
Disaccharides and Glycosidic Bonds. Monosaccharides such as glucose can be linked together in condensation reactions. For example, sucrose (table sugar) is formed from one molecule of glucose and one of fructose, as shown below. Molecules composed of two monosaccharides are called disaccharides. Click on the step numbers to see the steps in the formation of sucrose. Click on the mouse icon at left to clear the steps to see them again. 