Product Description. This product is designed as the paired antigen to anti-thyroxine (T4). T4 is linked to bovine serum albumin (BSA) via its amine group to the free thiol of cysteine residues. It is useful as an immobilized antigen for anti-T4 antibody assays in both ELISAs and gold colloid strip tests. Structure of the Product
thyroxine, thyroxin. a hormone of the thyroid gland that contains iodine and is a derivative of the amino acid tyrosine. The chemical name for thyroxine is tetraiodothyronine (symbol, T 4); it is formed and stored in the thyroid follicles as thyroglobulin, the storage form. a thyroid hormone that contains iodine and is a derivative of the amino acid tyrosine, occurring naturally as l-thyroxine; its chemical name is tetraiodothyronine. It is formed and stored in the thyroid follicles as thyroglobulin and released from the gland by the action of a proteolytic enzyme
A deficiency of iodine leads to decreased production of T 3 and T 4, enlarges the thyroid tissue and will cause the disease known as simple goitre. The major form of thyroid hormone in the blood is thyroxine (T 4), which has a longer half-life than T 3. Thyroid hormones (T 4 and T 3) are produced by the follicular cells of the thyroid gland and are regulated by TSH made by the thyrotropes of the anterior pituitary gland. The effects of T 4 in vivo are mediated via T 3 (T 4 is converted to T 3 in target tissues). T 3 is 3- to 5- fold more active than T 4.
thyroxine. a thyroid hormone that contains iodine and is a derivative of the amino acid tyrosine, occurring naturally as l-thyroxine; its chemical name is tetraiodothyronine. It is formed and stored in the thyroid follicles as thyroglobulin and released from the gland by the action of a proteolytic enzym
Thyroxine, the most abundant thyroid hormone, contains four iodine atoms and is nicknamed T4, while triiodothyronine, the most active form, has three and is referred to as T3. Thyroid hormones are a group of chemically similar substances with a unique iodine-amino acid structure. Food and water supply the needed element iodine. Its presence in biologically-active molecules is unusual and distinguishes the thyroid hormones from other chemical messengers.
Thyroxine is produced by attaching iodine atoms to the ring structures of tyrosine molecules. Thyroxine (T 4) contains four iodine atoms. Triiodothyronine (T 3) is identical to T 4, but it has one less iodine atom per molecule. Iodide is actively absorbed from the bloodstream by a process called iodide trapping. Thyroid hormones (T 4 and T 3) are produced by the follicular cells of the thyroid gland and are regulated by TSH made by the thyrotropes of the anterior pituitary gland. The effects of T 4 in vivo are mediated via T 3 (T 4 is converted to T 3 in target tissues). T 3 is 3- to 5- fold more active than T 4.
Thyroxine: A hormone that is made by the thyroid gland and is one of the most important thyroid hormones. Four iodine molecules are attached to the molecular structure of thyroxine. Along with the more powerful thyroid hormone triiodothyronine (T3), thyroxine affects almost every process in the body, including body temperature, growth, and heart rate. Also known as T4. 
The thyroid hormones, triiodothyronine (T3) and its prohormone, thyroxine (T4), are tyrosine-based hormones produced by the thyroid gland that are primarily responsible for regulation of metabolism. Iodine is necessary for the production of T 3 and T 4. Thyroid hormones (T 4 and T 3) are produced by the follicular cells of the thyroid gland and are regulated by TSH made by the thyrotropes of the anterior pituitary gland. The effects of T 4 in vivo are mediated via T 3 (T 4 is converted to T 3 in target tissues). T 3 is 3- to 5- fold more active than T 4.