People like different colors like they like different foods. Color also represents feelings, people, countries, cultures, and color symbolism. In the western world, the color red is seen frequently of symbolizing anger or aggression. The color green of the Maharashtra represents life and happiness. The color blue is like infinity like the vastness of the oceans and sky. [ 5 ]. In Christianity, the color red symbolizes the blood of Jesus Christ and of sacrifice.
Confidence votes 890. The color yellow doesn't always mean the same thing in all books, so there is really no way to answer this question. Sometimes yellow is symbolic of happiness and light... of brightness, cheerfulness, or hope. Other times (The Yellow Wallpaper comes to mind), it is a sickly color that emphasizes illness, frailty, or age. In other books it could be purely descriptive... no deeper meaning at all
Answer     The color yellow doesn't always mean the same thing in all books, so there is really no way to answer this question. Sometimes yellow is symbolic of happin … ess and light... of brightness, cheerfulness, or hope. In literature, the color red symbolizes passion and emotion. Since unchecked passion can lead to various dangers, red can also represent danger (and more literally blood).
Symbolism of blue color in literature. Blue color in literature is mainly used to draw a positive emotional response and is typically associated with the feeling of calmness, peace, happiness, relaxation, comfort. On the negative side, it may be used to represent depression, sadness and gloominess. Although this is the case, writers and poets have the poetic license to use different colors in a manner that create different meanings in their work. Let us study different colors and what they mean in different forms of literature across the world.
Writers use many literary devices to add layers of meaning to their writing. One way they do this is by using symbolism. Symbolism is when writers use animals, elements, things, places, or colors to represent other things. The symbols they use are usually well known in literature or culture. When you understand the symbol being used, you connect its meaning to the story you are reading and understand the story on a deeper level
Color symbolism in fairy tales. The best places in literature to study color symbolism are the Fairy tales which used colors richly: examples include: As red as blood, as white as snow, as black as the crow etc-all of which evoke emotional responses and help develop a connection to the story. Although this is the case, writers and poets have the poetic license to use different colors in a manner that create different meanings in their work. Let us study different colors and what they mean in different forms of literature across the world.
Orange combines the energy of red and the happiness of yellow. It is associated with joy, sunshine, and tropics. Orange represents enthusiasm, fascination, happiness, creativity, determination, attraction, success, encouragement, and stimulation. White is associated with light, goodness, innocence, and purity. It is considered to be the color of perfection. White means safety, purity, and cleanliness. As opposed to black, white usually has a positive connotation.
Red. Red is the color of fire and blood, so it is associated with energy, war, danger, strength, power, determination as well as passion, desire, and love. Red is a very emotionally intense color. It enhances human metabolism, increases respiration rate, and raises blood pressure. White is associated with light, goodness, innocence, and purity. It is considered to be the color of perfection. White means safety, purity, and cleanliness. As opposed to black, white usually has a positive connotation.
Symbolism of green color in literature and poems. As per the 2004 color study, green in literature and poems is used for symbolizing both a ‘riveting’ and ‘relaxing’ effect. Green represents feelings of refreshment but is also associated with ‘tiredness and guilt’. Although this is the case, writers and poets have the poetic license to use different colors in a manner that create different meanings in their work. Let us study different colors and what they mean in different forms of literature across the world.