Later in 1927, Carmichael’s career started off well. He finished and recorded one of his most famous songs,  Star Dust  (later renamed Stardust, with Mitchell Parish 's lyrics added in 1929), at the Gennett Records studio in Richmond, Indiana, with Carmichael doing the piano solo. He was named Hoagland after a circus troupe The Hoaglands who stayed at the Carmichael house during his mother's pregnancy. Howard was a horse-drawn taxi driver and electrician, and Lida a versatile pianist who played accompaniment at silent movies and for parties.
Early Life. Hoagland Howard Carmichael, better known as Hoagy Carmichael, was born on November 22, 1899, in Bloomington, Indiana. He was raised in humble circumstances, supported by an electrician father, and by the income his mother earned from playing the piano at silent movie showings and local dances. Later Years. As the 1950s progressed, Carmichael continued to write and perform, but did not reach the same level of songwriting success. Having written one autobiography earlier in his career, The Stardust Road (1946), he updated his memoirs with Sometimes I Wonder (1965).
Born in Bloomington, Indiana, Carmichael was the only son of Howard Clyde Carmichael, of Scottish ancestry, and Lida Mary (Robison). He was named Hoagland after a circus troupe The Hoaglands who stayed at the Carmichael house during his mother's pregnancy. Howard was a horse-drawn taxi driver and electrician, and Lida a versatile pianist who played accompaniment at silent movies and for parties.
By John Edward Hasse. The year 1899 was a seminal one in American music. For in the space of seven months three auspicious events took place. Scott Joplin published his Maple Leaf Rag-whose acceptance would become emblematic of the mainstreaming of African-American music in American culture. And two figures who would play pivotal roles in 20th century music-Duke Ellington and Hoagy Carmichael-were born. Hoagy would tag along. Like a sponge, he absorbed music from his mother, from the visiting circuses, and from the black families and churches in his neighborhood. Ragtime was in the air, and his mother mastered the Maple Leaf Rag and other popular tunes of the day. In 1916, his family moved to Indianapolis.
A giant among composers of American popular music, Hoagy Carmichael (1899–1981) wrote Stardust, the song that has according to many reckonings been recorded more often than any other in the history of music. 
Synopsis. American songwriter Hoagy Carmichael was born on November 22, 1899, in Bloomington, Indiana. He wrote Rockin' Chair, Lazy River, Georgia on my Mind and Stardust—one of the most recorded songs of all time. Later Years. As the 1950s progressed, Carmichael continued to write and perform, but did not reach the same level of songwriting success. Having written one autobiography earlier in his career, The Stardust Road (1946), he updated his memoirs with Sometimes I Wonder (1965).
Composer and singer Hoagy Carmichael writing music on the piano in his London hotel room. In 1927, Charles Lindbergh flew solo from New York to Paris. President Calvin Coolidge announced he would not run for re-election. A tube of Pepsodent toothpaste cost 50 cents. Hoagy Carmichael, lanky and slouched at the piano, usually with a cigarette hanging on his lip and squinting up to avoid the smoke. Hoagy Carmichael loved singing Stardust.. So did America and the world.
And in 1927, Hoagy Carmichael wrote a melody that would become one of the greatest hits of all time, Stardust.. Hoagy Carmichael, lanky and slouched at the piano, usually with a cigarette hanging on his lip and squinting up to avoid the smoke. Hoagy Carmichael loved singing Stardust.. So did America and the world. In France, it's Et Toi D'Amour, in Mexico, Pol Vo Deus Treis, in Japan, Suta Ada Suto
American composer and author Alec Wilder wrote of Carmichael in American Popular Song: The Great Innovators, 1900–1950 that he was the most talented, inventive, sophisticated and jazz-oriented of the hundreds of writers composing pop songs in the first half of the 20th century. He was named Hoagland after a circus troupe The Hoaglands who stayed at the Carmichael house during his mother's pregnancy. Howard was a horse-drawn taxi driver and electrician, and Lida a versatile pianist who played accompaniment at silent movies and for parties.
Howard Hoagland  Hoagy  Carmichael (November 22, 1899 – December 27, 1981) was an American composer, pianist, singer, actor, and bandleader. He was named Hoagland after a circus troupe The Hoaglands who stayed at the Carmichael house during his mother's pregnancy. Howard was a horse-drawn taxi driver and electrician, and Lida a versatile pianist who played accompaniment at silent movies and for parties.