If you're a city driver, tire rolling resistance accounts for about 15% of your car's overall resistance (25% on highway where there's less stop and go). When you hear overall resistance, it means anything and everything that inhibits forward momentum, including your car's aerodynamics.
Rolling resistance is the energy that is lost when the tire is rolling and the main reason for loss of energy is the constant deformation of the tire.
Rolling resistance is a complex phenomenon, but simply put, it is the energy a tire consumes while rolling under a load. The resistance is influenced by the friction between the tire tread and the road surface, and the amount of energy consumed by the flexing of the tire sidewalls as the tire rolls over the road.
Tire rolling resistance is the amount of energy needed to keep your tires rolling at a straight and steady pace, and it can have a big impact on your car's fuel efficiency.
Rolling resistance, sometimes called rolling friction or rolling drag, is the force resisting the motion when a body (such as a ball, tire, or wheel) rolls on a surface.
Tire rolling resistance is defined as the force required to maintain the forward movement of a loaded pneumatic tire in a straight line at a constant speed. And just like the laws of physics and forces of nature, it is an obstacle every vehicle has to overcome to transport passengers and cargo to their destinations.
How it works: Rolling resistance is caused by tires' interaction with the road. Tires are always bending and stretching as they travel under the weight of your car, your passengers and any cargo you're carrying, all of which adds up to a lot of friction between your tires and the road.
Rolling resistance is the resistance to rolling that occurs when a round object, such as a ball, wheel, or cylinder rolls on a surface. It is caused primarily by deformation of the object, deformation of the surface, or both. Rolling resistance is often neglected when solving problems involving rolling.