The cost to install a window air conditioner averages between $150 and $300, depending on the size you need. Installing a window air conditioning unit can bring added comfort for a reasonable price, but it will be less powerful than a central air conditioning system. Once you've determined the size of the air conditioning unit you need, it's time to look at different brands. Various manufacturers produce heating and cooling units, and there are pros and cons to each. Units also vary in cost, depending on bells and whistles.
According to heating and air experts at Central Air Conditioning and Refrigeration, 2006 prices for entire central air conditioning systems ranged from about $2,000 to more than $15,000, and prices remained in this range or slightly lower through December, 2010. Additional installation prices, according to the pricing website Cost Helper, ranged from about $3,500 to more than $8,000 as of December 2010. A number of factors influence the cost of a central air conditioning system and accompanying installation.
If your air conditioner is between 10-15 years old, it may be more cost efficient to replace the unit, especially if your unit is no longer under warranty. If your unit is in need of frequent repairs, the repairs may end up costing you more than a new unit in the long run. The cost of air conditioning replacement has many variants, including: 1  The size of your home. 2  The age of your home. 3  What type of unit you choose to install. 4  If your house needs new or replacement ductwork. 5  Etc.
As of January 2006, 13 SEER rating is the minimum ac SEER accepted in the Unite State. If you’re planning to buy air conditioners with higher seer rating and more Ton the HVAC price will be higher than this. Central ac units with 5 tons and 18 seer rating would cost about 3 to 5 grand or even more. This is just air conditioner units. It does not include the heating units. If we paid HVAC contractor $5,700.00 to replace central air conditioner units with furnace I would said that good deal. Central air cost with duct work. To install central air conditioner units with duct work is between $10,000 and $15,000 or more. There are some areas that will charge less.
The price to install central air conditioner units with heating unit is between $6,500 and $15,000. The HVAC installation costs are for complete heating and cooling system and labor cost. To get little more accurate price in your area, check out the links below. If we paid HVAC contractor $5,700.00 to replace central air conditioner units with furnace I would said that good deal. Central air cost with duct work. To install central air conditioner units with duct work is between $10,000 and $15,000 or more. There are some areas that will charge less.
Specifications. Perhaps the first step to determining the cost of replacing a central air conditioning unit is evaluating the specifications necessary for the size and dimensions of your home. Decide if your current unit adequately cools your entire home or if you require a larger unit. Most central air conditioning units come with two-to five-year warranties. Extended warranties can be purchased for an additional price -- usually for several hundred dollars -- and the longer the warranty, the higher the price.
Most homeowners report spending between $3,675 and $7,155 to have air conditioning installed. This price is more typical of a central A/C unit installation rather than a window air conditioner addition which typically averages about $300. Your total cost for the job will depend on the type of system you choose. Once you've determined the size of the air conditioning unit you need, it's time to look at different brands. Various manufacturers produce heating and cooling units, and there are pros and cons to each. Units also vary in cost, depending on bells and whistles.
Your heat pump or air conditioner is more than 10 years old. Consider replacing it with a unit that has earned the ENERGY STAR label. Installed correctly, these high-efficiency units can save up to 20 percent on heating and cooling costs. 
Noisy equipment, excessive humidity within the home and a unit older than 10 years are among the top reasons to replace your central air conditioning, according to Energy Star, a U.S. government program promoting energy efficiency. Most central air conditioning units come with two-to five-year warranties. Extended warranties can be purchased for an additional price -- usually for several hundred dollars -- and the longer the warranty, the higher the price.
For example, at the time of publication, the Central Air Conditioning Prices website rates a 1.5-ton, 18,000 Btu air conditioning unit and coil at $710, while a 5-ton, 60,000 Btu unit and coil is listed at $1,640, excluding installation. Most central air conditioning units come with two-to five-year warranties. Extended warranties can be purchased for an additional price -- usually for several hundred dollars -- and the longer the warranty, the higher the price.