Due to the fusion of the two gametes, a human zygote contains 46 chromosomes (i.e. 23 pairs). However, a large number of species have the chromosomes in their somatic cells arranged in fours ( tetraploid ) or even sixes ( hexaploid ). Thus, they can have diploid or even triploid germline cells. A somatic (Greek: σὠμα/soma = body) or vegetative cell is any biological cell forming the body of an organism; that is, in a multicellular organism, any cell other than a gamete, germ cell, gametocyte or undifferentiated stem cell.
46 chromosomes are there in a human somatic cell. 22 pairs of homologous chromosomes are there with one pair of XX (in case of females) and one pair of XY (in case of males). Hence, 22 pairs of chromosomes + one pair of XX/XY chromosomes gives 23 pairs of chromosomes, i.e., 46 chromosomes. That depends on the organism you're looking at. In humans, there are 46 chromosomes per normal somatic cell. 46 chromosomes = 22 homolog pairs + 2 sex chromosomes (XX in w … omen or XY in men).
Normal body cells (in this example, any non-sex cell of the deer) contain a full set of all of the deer's chromosomes (or 2 n chromosomes), and are called diploid cells. In this case, 2 n =70. Normal body cells or dipoid cells may also be referred to as somatic cells in some texts. Gametes or sex cells are also called haploid cells, because they have half the genetic information (half of the chromosomes) found in a normal cell in the body of an organism.
Haploid (n) number is the number of chromosomes in germ cells (23 in humans), diploid (2n) number is the number of chromosomes in somatic cells (46 in humans). 
Not too many people know that different types of mice have different amounts of chromosomes. For example, a deer mouse has 48 chromosomes, while a lab mouse has 40 chromosomes. Keep in mind that humans, on the other hand, have 46 chromosomes. 
Females have two copies of the X chromosome, while males have one X and one Y chromosome. The 22 autosomes are numbered by size. The other two chromosomes, X and Y, are the sex chromosomes. This picture of the human chromosomes lined up in pairs is called a karyotype. In humans, each cell normally contains 23 pairs of chromosomes, for a total of 46. Twenty-two of these pairs, called autosomes, look the same in both males and females. The 23rd pair, the sex chromosomes, differ between males and females. 
There are 40 chromosomes in somatic cells of the house mouse. a) how many chromosomes does a mouse receive from its father? b) how many autosomes are present in a mouse gamete? c) how many sex chromosomes are in a mouse ovum? d) how many autosomes are in somatic cells of a female? 
Each species has its own unique set of chromosome, and all individuals in a particular species typically have the same number of chromosomes. Humans have 46 chromosomes. The domestic dog has 78 chromosomes, the domestic cat has 38 chromosomes, and the mouse that it chases has 40 chromosomes! 2. Within each individual in a species, every somatic cell contains the same number of chromosomes as every other. Humans (and most other animals) are diploid organisms meaning that each cell contains two complete chromosome sets. 
(The gametes of diploid organisms contain only single unpaired chromosomes and are called haploid .) Each pair of chromosomes comprises one chromosome inherited from the father and one inherited from the mother. For example, in humans, somatic cells contain 46 chromosomes organized into 23 pairs. A somatic (Greek: σὠμα/soma = body) or vegetative cell is any biological cell forming the body of an organism; that is, in a multicellular organism, any cell other than a gamete, germ cell, gametocyte or undifferentiated stem cell.
Gametes, on the other han … d, are haploid (n), with a single set of chromosomes, ie. half as many as the somatic cell. Now, the haploid chromosome number (n) is characteristic of the species, and in humans this number happens to be 23. Therefore a human gamete has 23 chromosomes, and a human somatic cell 23 pairs, or 46 chromosomes. That depends on the organism you're looking at. In humans, there are 46 chromosomes per normal somatic cell. 46 chromosomes = 22 homolog pairs + 2 sex chromosomes (XX in w … omen or XY in men).