Since volcanic eruptions are caused by magma (a mixture of liquid rock, crystals, and dissolved gas) expelled onto the Earth's surface, we must first discuss the characteristics of magma and how magmas form in the Earth. Characteristics of Magma. Types of Magma. When magma reaches the surface of the earth, it is called lava. Since it its a liquid, it flows downhill in response to gravity as a lava flows. Different magma types behave differently as lava flows, depending on their temperature, viscosity, and gas content.
Lava is made up of crystals, volcanic glass, and bubbles (volcanic gases). As magma gets closer to the surface and cools, it begins to crystallize minerals like olivine and form bubbles of volcanic gases. When lava erupts it is made up of a slush of crystals, liquid, and bubbles. The liquid freezes to form volcanic glass. Chemically lava is made of the elements silicon, oxygen, aluminum, iron, magnesium, calcium, sodium, potassium, phosphorus, and titanium (plus other elements in very small concentrations. Have a look at the background information in Minerals, Magma, and Volcanic Rocks
You might think it’s a liquid, since volcanoes erupt lava from the mantle. But actually, the mantle is mostly solid rock. Magma is liquid rock that seeps out of the mantle and collects into pockets beneath the crust called magma chambers. 
Igneous rocks are commonly classified by their composition and texture. Most are composed of the eight most abundant elements in the Earth's crust. Because of the dominance of oxygen and silicon in the crust, igneous rocks are mostly made up of silicate minerals. These silicates can be generally divided into light and dark silicates.
The great majority of igneous rocks are made up of silicate minerals, and of these silicates, those listed in the Bowen's Reaction Series are most important. Generally, igneous rocks that are composed mainly of potassium feldspars and quartz are known as felsic (fel from feldspar, and sic from silica). 
IGNEOUS ROCKS AND IGNEOUS PROCESSES. Introduction. Magma-Molten rock material composed mostly of _____________________. Magmas may also include dissolved gases and minor amounts of solid minerals. Magma at Earth's Surface. United States Geological Survey image. Magmas can occur deep within the Earth, or at Earth's surface. 
Magma is a complex high-temperature fluid substance. Temperatures of most magmas are in the range 700 °C to 1300 °C (or 1300 °F to 2400 °F), but very rare carbonatite magmas may be as cool as 600 °C, and komatiite magmas may have been as hot as 1600 °C. Most magmas are silicate mixtures. Environments of magma formation and compositions are commonly correlated. Environments include subduction zones, continental rift zones, mid-ocean ridges and hotspots. Despite being found in such widespread locales, the bulk of the Earth's crust and mantle is not molten.
The Earth’s mantle, on which the crust is lying on, is not made of liquid magma. It is not even made of magma. The Earth’s mantle is mostly made of solid rock. The misconception of a liquid mantle arises from expressions like “a subducted tectonic plate sinks into the mantle” or “continental drift”, expressions that implicitly refer to the liquid element. The Earth’s mantle is mostly solid from the liquid outer core to the crust, but it can creep on the long-term, which surely strengthens the misconception of a liquid mantle.
Magma (from Greek μάγμα, thick unguent) is a mixture of molten or semi-molten rock, volatiles and solids that is found beneath the surface of the Earth, and is expected to exist on other terrestrial planets. Besides molten rock, magma may also contain suspended crystals, dissolved gas and sometimes gas bubbles. Environments of magma formation and compositions are commonly correlated. Environments include subduction zones, continental rift zones, mid-ocean ridges and hotspots. Despite being found in such widespread locales, the bulk of the Earth's crust and mantle is not molten.
Extrusive igneous rock. Extrusive, or volcanic, igneous rock is produced when magma ex its and cools outside of, or very near the Earth's surface. These are the rocks that form at erupting volcanoes and oozing fissures.