Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: participle (Noun). A form of a verb that may function as an adjective or noun. English has two types of participles: the present participle and the past participle. Origin: From participle (1388), ‘a noun-adjective’, variant of participe, from participium. 
Full Definition of PARTICIPLE. : a word having the characteristics of both verb and adjective; especially: an English verbal form that has the function of an adjective and at the same time shows such verbal features as tense and voice and capacity to take an object. See participle defined for English-language learners
participle. noun par·ti·ci·ple \ˈpaer-ˈpär-tə-ˌsi\. Pəl. tweet: grammar a form of a verb that is used to indicate a past or present action and that can also be used like an. adjective : a word having the characteristics of both verb and adjective; especially: an English verbal form that has the function of an adjective and at the same time shows such verbal features as tense and voice and capacity to take an object.
noun. A word formed from a verb (e.g. going, gone, being, been) and used as an adjective (e.g. working woman, burnt toast) or a noun (e.g. good breeding). In English participles are also used to make compound verb forms (e.g. is going, has been). Compare with gerund. Example sentences. 
Full Definition of PAST PARTICIPLE. : a participle that typically expresses completed action, that is traditionally one of the principal parts of the verb, and that is traditionally used in English in the formation of perfect tenses in the active voice and of all tenses in the passive voice. 
Definition. A participle is a verbal that functions as an adjective. Adjective: participial. Present participles end in-ing (carrying, sharing, tapping). Past participles of regular verbs end in-ed (carried, shared, tapped)
A participle is a form of a verb that is used in a sentence to modify a noun, noun phrase, verb, or verb phrase, and thus plays a role similar to that of an adjective or adverb. It is one of the types of nonfinite verb forms. 
Search. A participle is a word formed from a verb which can be used as an adjective. The two types of participles are the present participle (ending ing) and the past participle (usually ending-ed, -d, -t, -en, or-n). Here are some participles being used as adjectives: It is really common to see participles in participle phrases. A participle phrase also acts like an adjective
Definition. A participial phrase is a word group consisting of a present participle (also known as an-ing form) or past participle (also known as an-en form), plus any modifiers, objects, and complements. A participial phrase commonly functions as an adjective. See Examples and Observations below.
Noun. 1. participle-a non-finite form of the verb; in English it is used adjectivally and to form compound tenses. participial. verb-the word class that serves as the predicate of a sentence. present participle-a participle expressing present action; in English is formed by adding-ing. 