Capsicums have three reasons to be loved. One, it adds a dynamic personality to your food owing to vibrant colours of green, yellow, red and orange. Two, it blends into any dish and brings out a certain zing and flavour. Three, it is a storehouse of essential nutrients that can fight most illness. The capsicum is considered an exotic vegetable that are likely to be called bell peppers or paprika in certain countries around the world. Due to all these advantages, the capsicum has found its place in almost all cuisines. Rich in vitamins, capsicum helps in strengthening the immune system by making available vitamin A and C in the body. Vitamin B and folate have been used in the treatment of depression and stress related conditions.
Further, capsicum (sweet pepper) is also good in B-complex group of vitamins such as niacin, pyridoxine (vitamin B-6), riboflavin, and thiamin (vitamin B-1). These vitamins are essential in the sense that body requires them from external sources to replenish. Bell pepper contains an impressive list of plant nutrients that found to have disease preventing and health promoting properties. Unlike in other fellow chili peppers, it has very less calories and fats. 100 g provides just 31 calories
The Nutrition of a Green Pepper. A green pepper is a highly nutritious vegetable. This bell shaped vegetable with a green, glossy exterior adds a dash of color to any dish. It is also referred to as a bell pepper. It has a tangy taste that enhances food flavor. The pepper is packed with nutrients. It is a good source of vitamins, minerals and phytochemicals. One cup of chopped green pepper, about 150 grams, has 30 calories. It provides the following nutrients: 1  Protein - 3 grams. 2  Dietary fiber - 10 grams.
A wonderful combination of tangy taste and crunchy texture, sweet bell peppers are the Christmas ornaments of the vegetable world with their beautifully shaped glossy exterior that comes in a wide array of vivid colors ranging from green, red, yellow, orange, purple, brown to black. 1 Bell pepper alone provided 12% of the total zeaxanthin found in the participants' diets. ( 2 Bell pepper also provided 7% of the participants' total vitamin C intake.). 3  If you want to maximize the availability of vitamin C and carotenoids from bell pepper, allow this amazing vegetable to ripen.
The Nutrition of Bell Peppers. Bell peppers are a delicious vegetable that can be enjoyed either raw or cooked. When served raw, bell peppers have a crisp texture that lends itself to salads and makes a perfect complement to dips. When bell peppers are cooked they take on a smoky, sweetness that enhances many dishe
B Vitamins. A red bell pepper contains B vitamins that are essential for growth and development. It has .064 milligram of thiamin, .1 milligram of riboflavin and 1.16 milligrams of niacin, giving you small amounts of these vitamins to supplement your diet. 
While research studies have tended to focus on carotenoids as the hallmark antioxidants in bell pepper, this vegetable actually provides us with a very broad range of antioxidants. In terms of conventional nutrients, bell pepper is an excellent source of vitamin C at 117 milligrams per cup. 1 Bell pepper alone provided 12% of the total zeaxanthin found in the participants' diets. ( 2 Bell pepper also provided 7% of the participants' total vitamin C intake.). 3  If you want to maximize the availability of vitamin C and carotenoids from bell pepper, allow this amazing vegetable to ripen.
Capsicum /ˈkaepsɨkəm/ (ˈkæpsɨkəm also known as) peppers is a genus of flowering plants in the nightshade Family. Solanaceae its species are native to The, americas where they have been cultivated for thousands of. Years in modern, times it is cultivated, worldwide and has become a key element in many regional. cuisines The piquant (spicy) varieties are commonly called chili peppers, or simply chillies. The large, mild form is called red pepper, green pepper, or bell pepper in North America and United Kingdom and typically just capsicum in New Zealand, Australia, Singapore and India.
Fresh bell peppers, red or green, are rich source of vitamin-C. This vitamin is especially concentrated in red peppers at the highest levels. 100 g red pepper provides about 127.7 µg or about 213% of RDA of vitamin C. Bell pepper contains an impressive list of plant nutrients that found to have disease preventing and health promoting properties. Unlike in other fellow chili peppers, it has very less calories and fats. 100 g provides just 31 calories