The plan administrator must notify them in person or by first class mail within 14 days of receipt of notice of the employee's eligibility for COBRA coverage of their independent right to elect coverage. They must be given at least 60 days to make the election. The plan administrator then has 14 days in which to notify the employee of the right to elect COBRA coverage. The Department of Labor fines employers $110 for every day that a COBRA notice is delinquent. Also, the IRS can assess a penalty tax against employers that do not comply with COBRA notification rules.
Initial Notice. The initial notice of rights and benefits in the health plan is required within 90 days of the employee's coverage. If there are changes to the plan, the employer must give notice within 210 days after the year in which the changes take place. If benefits or coverage are being reduced, the notice period is 60 days. Notice of Eligibility. The administrator of the health plan must provide the employee a notice of eligibility for continued coverage within 14 days of the date the insurance company was notified of the qualifying event.
Eligibility for COBRA continuation coverage won't limit your eligibility for Marketplace coverage or for a tax credit. You can apply for Marketplace coverage at HealthCare.gov or by calling 1-800-318-2596 (TTY 1-855-889-4325). If you waive COBRA coverage during the election period, you must be permitted later to revoke your waiver of coverage and to elect continuation coverage as long as you do so during the election period. Then, the plan need only provide continuation coverage beginning on the date you revoke the waiver.
Being offered COBRA continuation coverage does not limit eligibility for coverage or for a tax credit through the Marketplace. The employee or dependent must select Marketplace coverage within 60 days before or 60 days after the loss of other coverage, or will have to wait until the next open enrollment period. For example, if a covered employee becomes entitled to Medicare 8 months before the date his/her employment ends (termination of employment is the COBRA qualifying event), COBRA coverage for his/her spouse and children would last 28 months (36 months minus 8 months).
When the qualifying event is the end of employment or reduction of the employee's hours, and the employee became entitled to Medicare less than 18 months before the qualifying event, COBRA coverage for the employee's spouse and dependents can last until 36 months after the date the employee becomes entitled to Medicare. If you waive COBRA coverage during the election period, you must be permitted later to revoke your waiver of coverage and to elect continuation coverage as long as you do so during the election period. Then, the plan need only provide continuation coverage beginning on the date you revoke the waiver.
1 You have 30 days to notify the plan administrator (usually the insurance company) when a loss occurs for any of the reasons listed above, except for divorce and change of status by a dependent. 2  In those two instances, you have 60 days to notify the administrator. You do not have to offer COBRA coverage to any of the following: 1  an employee who is not yet eligible for your group health plan. 2  an eligible employee who declined to participate in
Significance. Under federally mandated guidelines, employers are required to send former employees COBRA election information within specific time frames. The employer's benefits administrator must send COBRA documents within 14 days of being advised of the employee's separation. In addition, the former employee is allowed 60 days to choose COBRA coverage, and 45 days to make the first payment. 
For example, if a covered employee becomes entitled to Medicare 8 months before the date his/her employment ends (termination of employment is the COBRA qualifying event), COBRA coverage for his/her spouse and children would last 28 months (36 months minus 8 months). If you waive COBRA coverage during the election period, you must be permitted later to revoke your waiver of coverage and to elect continuation coverage as long as you do so during the election period. Then, the plan need only provide continuation coverage beginning on the date you revoke the waiver.
For example, an employer must notify its health insurance plan administrator of the employee's COBRA eligibility within 30 days of the employee's last day at work. The plan administrator then has 14 days in which to notify the employee of the right to elect COBRA coverage. The Department of Labor fines employers $110 for every day that a COBRA notice is delinquent. Also, the IRS can assess a penalty tax against employers that do not comply with COBRA notification rules.
If you are entitled to elect COBRA coverage, you must be given an election period of at least 60 days (starting on the later of the date you are furnished the election notice or the date you would lose coverage) to choose whether or not to elect continuation coverage. If you waive COBRA coverage during the election period, you must be permitted later to revoke your waiver of coverage and to elect continuation coverage as long as you do so during the election period. Then, the plan need only provide continuation coverage beginning on the date you revoke the waiver.