Key Points. 1  Esophageal diverticula can be categorized as (1) true diverticula that contain all the layers of the esophageal wall, (2) false diverticula that contain only the mucosa, and (3) intramural diverticula in which the mucosa outpouching occurs within the wall. Diverticula are outpouchings of one or more layers of the intestinal wall that may occur at any level of the esophagus. The number of intestinal wall layers involved distinguishes the true, false, and intramural types of diverticula.
Manual or endoscopic examination of the interior of the pharynx is necessary. A common cause is foreign body impaction. See also throat abscess (1), pharyngeal cyst and pharyngeal lymphadenopathy (above), pharyngeal polyp (below) and impaction of the pharyngeal diverticulum (above) in pigs. pharyngeal paralysis. pharyngeal cyst. subepiglottic cysts (remnants of thyroglosssal duct) and cysts on dorsum of pharynx and soft palate (remnants of craniopharyngeal ducts) may cause obstruction of the pharynx in the horse. pharyngeal diverticulum. a small, 3-4 cm, midline diverticulum dorsal to the pharyngeal opening of the esophagus.
1 Esophageal diverticula can be categorized as (1) true diverticula that contain all the layers of the esophageal wall, (2) false diverticula that contain only the mucosa, and (3) intramural diverticula in which the mucosa outpouching occurs within the wall. Diverticula are outpouchings of one or more layers of the intestinal wall that may occur at any level of the esophagus. The number of intestinal wall layers involved distinguishes the true, false, and intramural types of diverticula.
Posterior pharyngeal pulsion (Zenker's) diverticulum: Zenker called this pulsion diverticula. Earlier foreign body impaction was attributed as a cause of this diverticulum. Killian attributed spasmodic contraction of the circular fibers at the upper end of the esophagus. Definition: Pharyngeal pouches are mainly acquired and rarely congenital diverticula in and around the pharynx and oesophagus. These diverticula are nothing but circumscribed pouches caused by a protrusion of mucosa through a preexisting weakness / opening in the muscle layers of pharynx /
A Zenker's diverticulum, also pharyngoesophageal diverticulum, also pharyngeal pouch, also hypopharyngeal diverticulum, is a diverticulum of the mucosa of the pharynx, just above the cricopharyngeal muscle (i.e. above the upper sphincter of the esophagus). In simple words, when there is excessive pressure within the lower pharynx, the weakest portion of the pharyngeal wall balloons out, forming a diverticulum which may reach several centimetres in diameter.
A Zenker’s diverticulum, more formally known as a hypopharyngeal diverticulum, is a pouch that can form at the junction of the hypopharynx (lower part of the throat) and the esophagus, an area known as Killian’s Triangle. 
The most common pharyngeal diverticula (Zenker's) are false diverticula immediately proximal to the cricopharyngeus muscle. Diverticula of the body of the esophagus are divided into midthoracic (parabronchial) and epiphrenic diverticula. These three types of diverticula are illustrated in Figure 1. Diverticula are outpouchings of one or more layers of the intestinal wall that may occur at any level of the esophagus. The number of intestinal wall layers involved distinguishes the true, false, and intramural types of diverticula.