The terms were non-negotiable and that meant that no one could argue with what was being done and what was expected. 5 people found this helpful. Many of the terms in this contract are non-negotiable, however, we are happy to discuss the interest rate and closing fees to find a good match for your needs. 7 people found this helpful. While we remain open to changes is substance over form, the pricing we had previously agreed to is simply non-negotiable. 
Definition and Usage of Non-negotiable Sea Waybill : Non negotiable sea waybill or non negotiable bill of lading is a transport documents used in sea shipments. It is commonly referred as straight bill of lading. A straight bill of lading names the consignee which is entitled to take delivery of the cargo. v. contain terms and conditions of carriage or make reference to another source containing the terms and conditions of carriage (short form or blank back non-negotiable sea waybill). vi. contain no indication that it is subject to a charter party.
Best Answer: Non-negotiable means it is NOT a cheque. Depositing OR cashing a check is legally referred to as negotiating the cheque. You need to talk to your employer and find out what the situation is. I received a check from my Employer saying Non-Negotiable and I heard that you receive non-negotiable checks only if you have direct deposit and I never gave my employer my bank information for direct deposit.
Thesaurus. The thesaurus of synonyms and related words is fully integrated into the dictionary. Click on the thesaurus category heading under the button in an entry to see the synonyms and related words for that meaning. 90% of the time, speakers of English use just 7,500 words in speech and writing. These words appear in red, and are graded with stars. One-star words are frequent, two-star words are more frequent, and three-star words are the most frequent
Your employer did this to protect you and themselves should the check be stolen or found. Non-negotiable checks can, in fact, be deposited. A non-negotiable check is valid only when deposited to a bank account matching the name of the 'payee' on the front of the check. Companies often do this because if a check is stolen or found it becomes useless to anyone but the original payee. I received a check from my Employer saying Non-Negotiable and I heard that you receive non-negotiable checks only if you have direct deposit and I never gave my employer my bank information for direct deposit.
DEFINITION OF NEGOTIATION Negotiation is one of the most common approaches used to make decisions and manage disputes. It is also the major building block for many other alternative dispute resolution procedures. DEFINITIONS. For negotiations to result in positive benefits for all sides, the negotiator must define what the problem is and what each party wants. In defining the goals of negotiation, it is important to distinguish between issues, positions, interests and settlement options.
DEFINITION of 'Non-Negotiable'. 1. A term relating to the price of a good or security which is firmly established and cannot be adjusted. 2. A term relating to a good or security whose ownership is not easily transferable from one party to another.
BREAKING DOWN 'Non-Negotiable'. 1. When an asking price is considered non-negotiable, it means that you cannot try to change the price as it has been firmly established. 2. Securities and products that are considered non-negotiable cannot be transferred from one party to the next and thus are typically illiquid. A term relating to the price of a good or security which is firmly established and cannot be adjusted. 2. A term relating to a good or security whose ownership is not easily transferable from one party to another.
Blog. A must for anyone with an interest in the changing face of language. The Macmillan Dictionary blog explores English as it is spoken around the world today. Definition and synonyms of non-negotiable from the online English dictionary from Macmillan Publishers Limited. 90% of the time, speakers of English use just 7,500 words in speech and writing. These words appear in red, and are graded with stars. One-star words are frequent, two-star words are more frequent, and three-star words are the most frequent