MIS is use by the organizations for collect required data reports and information which help in better decision making. MIS Reports: Which reports provide to management for analyses business performance, they called MIS reports. like Inventory Report, Sale Report and Individual performance etc. MIS Report is nothing but a Financial Statement of the Company. this is monthly basis Balance sheet of the Company that is prepared by the accounts department for management to analyse financial status of the Company. and it is compared with previous one.
MIS is management information system.And MIS report is reporting information of reports like efficiency of wing or a department of a company. IF we take BPO (Call center)sector as eg. MIS consists of efficiency of agents,Avg time taken hold time etc ..and passing this to the mangement level for their analysis. MIS Report is nothing but a Financial Statement of the Company. this is monthly basis Balance sheet of the Company that is prepared by the accounts department for management to analyse financial status of the Company. and it is compared with previous one.
MIS is short for management information system or management information services. Management information system, or MIS, broadly refers to a computer-based system that provides managers with the tools to organize, evaluate and efficiently manage departments within an organization. The role of the management information system (MIS) manager is to focus on the organization's information and technology systems. The MIS manager typically analyzes business problems and then designs and maintains computer applications to solve the organization's problems.
(November 2012). A Management Information System (MIS) focuses on the management of information systems to provide efficiency and effectiveness of strategic decision making. The concept may include systems termed transaction processing system, decision support systems, expert systems, and executive information systems. Therefore, the MIS term sometimes can be inter-changeable used in above areas. Management Information Systems (plural) as an academic discipline studies people, technology, organizations, and the relationships among them. This definition relates specifically to MIS as a course of study in business schools.
The meaning of MIS report generation is Management Information  System reports generated. This can include financial reports,  inventory reports, or performance reports that … are computer  generated for review. A MIS report is a management information system report and an Excel spreadsheet is a way of presenting such a report. But this question is unanswerable as written
MIS report is known as Management Information System... regarding the Manpower status of a particular month, place and overall.. It helps the Management in decision making.. like what are the reasons of resignation.. in which area attrition is high.. and so many things to help in decision making.. with the help of MIS you may prepare a lot of reports.. Like annual attrition.. region wise attrition.. Based on this MIS report, you may find out the attrition report, Qualification analysis reports, team management reports and so on can prepare a number
It doesn't matter how relevant or accurate information in an MIS report is if it's hard for people to read and understand. How you present the information is important. Three of the most common types of business information in MIS reports are proportions, amounts, and rates of change. The kind of information you want to present determines which presentation type you should use for your report. An example of timely information for your report might be customer phone calls and emails going back 12 months from the current date. Accurate-It's critical that numbers add up and that dates and times are correct. Managers and others who rely on MIS reports can't make sound decisions with information that is wrong.
Best Answer: MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEMS (MIS) REPORT This extensive report is compiled from the responses of fabless semiconductor companies highlighting the MIS systems used. We have collected information such as respondent company revenue and headcount to provide a frame of reference for company size. 