Causes. The cause of mumps is the mumps virus, which spreads easily from person to person through infected saliva. If you're not immune, you can contract mumps by breathing in saliva droplets of an infected person who has just sneezed or coughed. 
1 Orchitis (inflammation of one or both testicles) is the most feared complication of mumps. 2  This condition causes severe pain, swelling, and tenderness in a male's testicles. 3  Orchitis is mostly on one side but can involve both testicles. 
The symptoms of mumps normally appear 2-3 weeks after the patient has been infected, however almost 20% of people with the virus do not suffer any signs or symptoms at all. The main symptom of mumps is painful and swollen parotid (salivary) glands, which cause the person's cheeks to puff out. The condition has a number of symptoms, the most common one being swelling of one or both of the salivary glands on the sides of the face. These glands are called the parotid glands and when they swell the patient develops a hamster like face.
1 Mumps is a highly contagious viral infection with an incubation period of 14-18 days from exposure to onset of symptoms. 2  The duration of the disease is approximately 10 days. 3  The initial symptoms of mumps infection are nonspecific (low-grade fever, malaise, headache, muscle aches, and loss of appetite). Mumps facts. 1 
Mumps is a contagious viral infection that can cause painful swelling of the salivary glands, especially the parotid glands (between the ear and the jaw). Some people with mumps won't have gland swelling. They may feel like they have a bad cold or the flu instead. Mumps usually goes away on its own in about 10 days. 
Mumps is an infectious disease caused by a virus that typically leads to painful swelling of the salivary glands in front of and below the ears. Mumps typically occurs in children between the ages of two and 12 years who were not vaccinated against mumps. 
1 The initial symptoms of mumps infection are nonspecific (low-grade fever, malaise, headache, muscle aches, and loss of appetite). 2  The classic finding of parotid gland tenderness and swelling generally develops the third day of illness. 3  The diagnosis is generally made without the need for laboratory tests. Mumps facts. 1  Mumps is a highly contagious viral infection with an incubation period of 14-18 days from exposure to onset of symptoms. 2  The duration of the disease is approximately 10 days. 3 
Mumps is caused by the mumps virus, which belongs to a family of viruses known as paramyxoviruses. These viruses are a common source of infection, particularly in children. When you get mumps, the virus moves from your respiratory tract (your nose, mouth and throat) into your parotid glands (saliva-producing glands found either side of your face), where it begins to reproduce. This causes the glands to swell. How mumps is spread. Mumps is an airborne virus and can be spread by: 1  an infected person coughing or sneezing and releasing tiny droplets of contaminated saliva, which can then be breathed in by another person.
Examples of how it can be spread are: Someone infected with the mumps virus is contagious for approximately 15 days (six days before the symptoms start to show, up to nine days after they start). The mumps virus is part of the paramyxovirus family, which is a widespread cause of infection, especially in children. Normally, mumps can be diagnosed by its symptoms alone, especially by examining the facial swelling. In addition to examining this area and taking a note of the symptoms, a doctor may: The condition has a number of symptoms, the most common one being swelling of one or both of the salivary glands on the sides of the face. These glands are called the parotid glands and when they swell the patient develops a hamster like face.
The most common symptom of mumps is swollen salivary glands (parotid) glands in the neck, sometimes referred to as a 'hamster face' appearance. The swelling can be on one or both sides of the neck. Mumps can be prevented in 95% of cases by having the routine MMR vaccination in childhood or later in life. Mumps can result in complications like meningitis and painful swelling of the testicles (orchitis) or ovaries (oophoritis). In children and adults with mumps and no complications, most get better and have no further side effects.