Geopolitical Community Essay. Below is a free essay on Geopolitical Community from Anti Essays, your source for free research papers, essays, and term paper examples. A geopolitical community is defined by Maurer & Smith (2013) as a spatial designation--a geographical or geopolitical area or place. Geopolitical communities are formed by either natural or human-made boundaries.. Natural boundaries can be a lake, island, forest, hillside or plateau. A phenomenological community can be thought of as an assembly of individuals who share the same viewpoint, relationships, values, interests, beliefs and goals. A phenomenological community is looked at as a relational rather than spatial designation (Maurer & Smith, 2013).
Geopolitical is a destination, a geographical area or place, it can either be formed by manmade boundaries such as a street, bridges, highway, or by natural boundaries like mountains. I live in Tucson and my boundaries are set by the city. Tucson boundary lies next to Marana. Phenomenological community is where I live, I live in a middle class neighborhood with children of the same age as mine, and the neighbors are like minded such as myself. We all go to work pay our bills, raise children and have a quiet family life (Maurer & Smith, 2013).
Geopolitical and community mapping also involves the preparation of thematic maps to show the distribution of demographic and economic variables such as: 1  Location and footprint of government facilities, first responders, hospitals and emergency facilities, schools, churches, parks, etc. By combining multiple variables and geographic features in a single thematic map, geopolitical and community mapping can be used to analyze and display relationships important to a community and government. Examples of the type of relationships that can be examined include the geographic distribution of:
A geopolitical community is a community with defined geographical and jurisdictional boundaries, such as rural municipalities, towns or city communities. The boundary of a geo … political community generally delineates its periphery (e.g., city limits) and is easily identifiable on a map. 46 people found this useful. Making the world better, one answer at a time. A geopolitical community is a community that is defined by a specific boundary. It can be politically or geographically influenced. An example would be any major city in the United States.
A geopolitical community is a community with defined geographical and jurisdictional boundaries, such as rural municipalities, towns or city communities. The boundary of a geopolitical community generally delineates its periphery (e.g., city limits) and is easily identifiable on a map. Heartland Theory is a geopolitical hypothesis, proposed by British geographer Halford Mackinder during the first two decades of the twentieth century, that any political … power based in the heart of Eurasia could gain sufficient strength to eventually dominate the world.
I live in a geopolitical community but I might be a member of several phenomenological communities (Maurer & Smith, 2013) For example my job is where I belong, I have friends as well as coworkers there and we all have one common goal, to do the best by our patients. Phenomenological community is where I live, I live in a middle class neighborhood with children of the same age as mine, and the neighbors are like minded such as myself. We all go to work pay our bills, raise children and have a quiet family life (Maurer & Smith, 2013).
Maurer and Smith (2008) define a geopolitical community as “a spatial designation—a geographic or geopolitical area or place.” (p. 400) This can be illustrated by looking at the natural or human-made boundaries in which people live in. Maurer and Smith (2008) define a phenomenological community as “a relational rather than a spatial designation.” (p. 400) Thus, a community in which a common interest is present and therefore would facilitate a sense of membership and belonging.