The Cleric is a specialist of Light-based magic and protective spells. He utilizes them by empowering his allies or dealing immobilizing attacks against his opponents. 
The word cleric (Lat., clericus from clerus) is derived from the Greek kleros, a lot. In the Septuagint, this word is used in the literal sense quite frequently, though not in its later technical sense. In the First Epistle of St. Peter (v, 3) it is applied to entire body of the faithful. While cleric in its strict sense means one who has received the ecclesiastical tonsure, yet in general sense it is also employed in canon law for all to whom clerical privileges have been extended. Such are the members of religious orders: Monks and nuns, and even lay brothers and novices.
The spells at a Cleric’s command are as varied as the patron deities they follow. Many Clerics are also capable combatants who rain divine wrath from afar, or wade into the thick of battle, warhammer swinging. Clerics fuel their spells with the arcane energy known as mana (the blue bar). Granted by their patron deity, a Cleric’s pool of mana is not limitless and must be carefully managed, lest the Cleric deplete his reserves in a crisis. 
(December 2009). The Cleric, Priest, or Bishop is a character class in Dungeons & Dragons and other fantasy role-playing games. The cleric is a healer, usually a priest and a holy warrior, originally modeled on or inspired by the Military Orders. 1 In Dragon Nest, The Cleric is one of the five classes that a player may choose at the start of the game. 2  The Cleric's role in the game is mainly to support its party, as it possesses skills that heal and buff team mates. 3  Their role further branches out to Paladins and Priests, available as secondary classes at level 15.
In the Dungeons & Dragons role-playing game, the cleric is one of the four base character classes. Clerics are versatile figures, both capable in combat and skilled in the use of divine magic, which they employ without any restriction despite encumbrance of their armour. 1 In Dragon Nest, The Cleric is one of the five classes that a player may choose at the start of the game. 2  The Cleric's role in the game is mainly to support its party, as it possesses skills that heal and buff team mates. 3  Their role further branches out to Paladins and Priests, available as secondary classes at level 15.
Class Summary Edit. Clerics are the primary healing class in Aion and they utilize powerful healing spells and dispelling magic to keep their allies standing through even in the worst of conditions. Play Style Edit. The Cleric is the main healing class of Aion and is practically a requirement for many areas of the game. The Cleric is the only class that can actively dispel both physical and mental debuffs and is the main class for single target and AoE healing capabilities.
Cleric. A person who has been legitimately received into the ranks of the clergy. By clergy in the strict sense is meant the entire ecclesiastical hierarchy. Consequently a cleric is one who belongs in some sense to the hierarchy. While cleric in its strict sense means one who has received the ecclesiastical tonsure, yet in general sense it is also employed in canon law for all to whom clerical privileges have been extended. Such are the members of religious orders: Monks and nuns, and even lay brothers and novices.
4,804 pages on this wiki. Clerics are spellcasters who channel the power of their faith in a cause or higher being into potent magic. Most clerics are part of a formal church, cult, or other religious institution and wield either white or black mana. White-aligned clerics specialize in healing and protection, while black-aligned clerics spread fear and pestilence and often share a bond with the undead. 
Full Definition of CLERIC. : a member of the clergy. See cleric defined for English-language learners. 
Example sentences. 1  Based on what you just got through saying, the senior Muslim Shiite clerics have no use for this guy. 2  Constantly, they are being seen with Muslim clerics and visiting mosques. 3  He was a well-respected figure and considered a relatively moderate leader in a party ruled by hardline Muslim clerics. 