Igniting and sustaining the fusion of light nuclei requires an astonishingly high temperature, on the scale of 100 million kelvin. No material can tolerate such an environment, and for some 60 years scientists have been studying plasmas bound within a cage of magnets to insulate the walls of a reaction vessel from the intense heat inside it.
GA and affiliates' facilities contain over three million square feet of engineering, laboratory and manufacturing installations in the San Diego area. GA and its affiliates also have operations in Berlin, Dresden, Adelaide, Washington, D.C., Denver, Los Alamos, Oklahoma City, Tupelo and Ogden. GA had an initial charter to explore peaceful uses of atomic energy. Leading scientists came to GA, forming the nucleus of a staff which, including affiliated companies, currently numbers about 8,000.
General Atomics Salary. General Atomics average salary is $83,544, median salary is $80,000 with a salary range from $35,067 to $200,000. General Atomics salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position. General Atomics salary statistics is not exclusive and is for reference only. 
Prepares reports for upper management regarding status of project. May require a bachelor's degree and at least 7 years of experience in the field or in a related area. Familiar with a variety of the field's concepts, practices, and procedures. Project Manager Sr. - Construction Salaries. Oversees and directs construction management for larger or more complex construction projects. Communicates directly with contractors/designers concerning project cost, staffing, and scheduling.
About: General Atomics is a nuclear physics and defense contractor headquartered in San Diego, California. General Atomics’ research into fission and fusion matured into competencies in related technologies, allowing the company to expand into other fields of research. General Atomics develops systems ranging from the nuclear fuel cycle to remotely operated…. Read more from Wikipedia ».
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Project Manager I in the United States is $67,710, so 50% of the people who perform the job of Project Manager I in the United States are expected to make less than $67,710. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. 1  Salary. 2  Salary + Bonus. 3  Benefits. This chart describes the expected percentage of people who perform the job of Project Manager I in the United States that make less than that annual salary.
For over 50 years, GA and its affiliates have been qualified by U.S. Government organizations, including the Department of Energy, Department of Defense and the National Science Foundation, as a government contractor and facilities operator. GA had an initial charter to explore peaceful uses of atomic energy. Leading scientists came to GA, forming the nucleus of a staff which, including affiliated companies, currently numbers about 8,000.
This chart describes the expected percentage of people who perform the job of Project Manager I that make less than that salary. For example 50% of the people who perform the job of Project Manager I are expected to make less than the median. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. This chart describes the expected percentage of people who perform the job of Project Manager I in the United States that make less than that annual salary.