GO The Airport Shuttle offers airport transportation to and from BWI (Baltimore Washington International), IAD (Washington Dulles) and DCA (Ronald Reagan National) Airports. 
Best Answer: I disagree with all other writers. The cheapest way to get from Reagan is to take the blue line and to Rosslyn and transfer to the Orange line. Disembark at the West Falls Church Metro station where the Washington Flyer picks folks up about every half hour. I put the link below. Cost is 9 one one and 16 RT. 
From Ronald Reagan Nat. Taxi services are provided from Washington Reagan airport to Washington Dulles International airport. It takes a journey time of about 35 minutes to travel between the two airports. Passengers can also opt for shuttle services to travel between the two airports. Arpt. to Dulles Intl. Taxi services are provided from Washington Reagan airport to Washington Dulles International airport. It takes a journey time of about 35 minutes to travel between the two airports.
To Dulles International Airport. Take Metrobus route 5A from L'Enfant Plaza Metrorail station (Orange, Silver, Blue, Yellow, and Green Lines) or the Rosslyn Metrorail station (Orange, Silver, and Blue Lines). This Metrobus takes you to the airport for just $7 per person ($3.50 for seniors and people with disabilities). Use Metro's Yellow or Blue Lines to take you directly to the Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport Metrorail station. It's closer to the airport than the parking lots. Use the covered walkway to take you into the terminal.
From DCA to Dulles, you can get there by two Metro trains and bus, or a taxi. For the Metro, you can walk directly from the terminal to the Metro station (Yellow/Blue lines) and board a Blue Line train heading north to Rosslyn. Transfer at Rosslyn to the Orange Line west west toward Vienna. A taxi will the easiest way to get from DCA to Dulles, but it will be more expensive ($60-70). I would take a taxi if you're transferring during the weekend, or during off-peak hours when the Metro service are less frequent, or if you have heavy luggage, which is cumbersome to transport on Metro trains. Report Abuse
From Dulles International Airport. Coming from Dulles International Airport, connect to Metrorail using Metrobus. For just $7 per person ($3.50 for seniors and people with disabilities), the 5A takes you to Rosslyn Metrorail station on the Orange, Silver and Blue Lines with just one stop in between. Use Metro's Yellow or Blue Lines to take you directly to the Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport Metrorail station. It's closer to the airport than the parking lots. Use the covered walkway to take you into the terminal.
Airport-to-Airport transfers are a service of GO The Airport Shuttle serving Baltimore/Washington Thurgood Marshall International Airport (BWI), Washington Dulles International Airport (IAD) and Ronald Reagan National Airport (DCA). 1 A: Our Airport-to-Airport service is a shared ride advanced reservation based service between Baltimore/Washington Airport (BWI), Washington Dulles International Airport (IAD) and Ronald Reagan National Airport (DCA). 2  You can make an advance reservation for transportation between any of the three airports.