For the rear shocks. It's two years this July with 39k to be exact. Maybe sooner if only I had that break and suspension inspection done much earlier (first time). Rear shocks felt like that since new. I have an 08 Odyssey which I have traded my 05 Ody for. For the rotors they warped at 8 months. I have a '06 EXL and I replaced the rear shocks on mine after 28000km. OEM Honda ones are $192 in Canada so I replaced them with Monroe Sensa-Tracs for $63 each. Pretty happy with them so far.
Most original equipment shocks and struts are designed to last about 50,000 to 60,000 miles before they begin to deteriorate. Much of this depends on how the car is handled. Manufacturers advise that shocks and struts for passenger cars be checked every 12,000 miles, but often these important parts of a car’s suspension system can last 60,000 miles or longer before losing their performance. Other People Are Reading.
The rear brakes should not have warped. The rear shocks should definitely not have failed so soon and you should be able to get Honda to take care of that. I just replaced my brakes after 116,000 miles. And, I just noticed a leaking rear shock and will replace both rear shocks. I have a '06 EXL and I replaced the rear shocks on mine after 28000km. OEM Honda ones are $192 in Canada so I replaced them with Monroe Sensa-Tracs for $63 each. Pretty happy with them so far.
This this the most important factor on how long they will last. Entry level shocks or the originals from the factory will not last nearly as long as a high end, more expensive shock like Bilstein. Arnott shock absorbers and struts are designed as a direct replacement of your factory shocks. Arnott shocks are all engineered, assembled and tested In the USA. They are valved to ride like your OEM suspension. Arnott shocks offer excellent control, handling, comfort and stability.
It is recommended that they should be inspected by your local KYB Safety Center once a year, or every 12,000 miles. 
Shock wear is not determined solely by mileage, according to Toysport. Some shocks may need to be replaced after only 4,000 miles, yet others may function properly well after they've been used for 30,000 to 40,000 miles. Tenneco recommends having them inspected every 20,000 miles. Many manufacturers offer warranties on shocks for 60,000 miles. Shock absorbers prevent excess movement of a vehicle's body and suspension system. They eliminate bouncing and provide stability in the vehicle for safe maneuvering. How long shock absorbers will last depends on a number of factors.
The rear struts will run about $90 each and the rear mounts are about $57 each. The labor time will be around 3 hours to complete the replacement on both sides. Labor rates vary from shop tot shop and region to region. 
Greetings From Arench! To generalize struts last about 60-80k miles under most conditions. Driving over rough roads like potholes or dirt roads can shorten strut life. Driving a car thats often heavily loaded down can also shorten strut life. Operating the car in extreme temperatures either hot or cold will shorten strut life. Rear struts generally last longer than front because there is less weight for them to manage in the rear. You can bounce test the car by pushing down has hard as you can in each corner several times, when you let off the car should not continue to bounce, it should stop at is normal height.
The short answer? Experts recommend replacing shocks every 50,000 miles (80,467 kilometers), but a great deal depends on how you treat your vehicle's suspension. Are you logging all those miles on the placid interstate, or are you off-roading on winding dirt roads through the untamed wild? Your pampered cab may be a world full of satellite radio serenades, wood-beaded massage seat covers and lavender-scented air fresheners, but the road is hard, winding and bumpy. Lucky for you, your car suspension features snubbers or shock absorbers to help soften the ride.