Defining the Executive Branch. Picture our federal government as a tree with three branches: the judicial branch, the legislative branch, and the executive branch. Each branch is connected to the same trunk and together they make up the United States federal government. Instructor: Jason Nowaczyk. The executive branch of government is responsible for enforcing the laws of the United States. Learn more about the executive branch, its responsibilities, and the extent of its power.
One of the three primary branches of a government in most democratic countries-the other two being judicial and legislative branches. It includes the Prime Minister, or the executive President (such as in the US), and all agencies under his or her direct control. The executive branch attempted to expand its power, but it was checked, or blocked, in its attempts by the judicial branch when the Supreme Court ruled against the constitutionality of several of its Executive Orders.
The branch of the U.S. government that is composed of the president and all the individuals, agencies, and departments that report to the president, and that is responsible for administering and enforcing the laws that Congress passes. The Cabinet and Executive Departments The cabinet consists of the president, the vice president, the heads of the 15 executive departments, and any other government officials the president wishes to include, such as the head of the OMB or the head of the NSC.
In a presidential system the leader of the executive branch is both the head of state and head of government. In a parliamentary system, a cabinet minister responsible to the legislature is the head of government, while the head of state is usually a largely ceremonial monarch or president. The executive officer is not supposed to make laws (the role of the legislature) or interpret them (the role of the judiciary). The role of the executive is to enforce the law as written by the legislature and interpreted by the judiciary.
Use executive branch in a sentence. Show more usage examples... The Executive Branch of the United States Government, which includes the President and Vice President, has a number of powers vested to it explicitly by the Constitution. The executive branch attempted to expand its power, but it was checked, or blocked, in its attempts by the judicial branch when the Supreme Court ruled against the constitutionality of several of its Executive Orders.
The U.S. government is composed of three branches: legislative, judicial, and executive. The legislative branch consists of the U.S. Congress, which is responsible for creating laws. The Cabinet and Executive Departments The cabinet consists of the president, the vice president, the heads of the 15 executive departments, and any other government officials the president wishes to include, such as the head of the OMB or the head of the NSC.
The executive branch is the part of the government that has its authority and responsibility for the daily administration of the state. The executive branch executes, or enforces the law. The division of power into separate branches of government is central to the idea of the separation of powers. The executive officer is not supposed to make laws (the role of the legislature) or interpret them (the role of the judiciary). The role of the executive is to enforce the law as written by the legislature and interpreted by the judiciary.
The Framers outlined the powers and duties of the executive branch in Article II of the Constitution. The specific powers given to the president are few, and the language that is used to describe them is often brief and vague. The Cabinet and Executive Departments The cabinet consists of the president, the vice president, the heads of the 15 executive departments, and any other government officials the president wishes to include, such as the head of the OMB or the head of the NSC.
From the President, to the Vice President, to the Cabinet, learn more about the Executive Branch of the government of the United States. The power of the Executive Branch is vested in the President of the United States, who also acts as head of state and Commander-in-Chief of the armed forces. 
Full Definition of EXECUTIVE. 1. : the executive branch of a government; also: the person or persons who constitute the executive magistracy of a state. 2. : a directing or controlling office of an organization. 3. : one that exercises administrative or managerial control. 