It is the central compartment of the thoracic cavity. It contains the heart, the great vessels of the heart, esophagus, trachea, phrenic nerve, cardiac nerve, thoracic duct, thymus, and lymph nodes of the central chest. laryngalgia: pain in the larynx. pharyngitid: no such medical term pharyngitis-inflammation of the pharynx. Answer is A. mediastinum.
The pericardium lies within the mediastinum, the portion of the thoracic cavity between the left and right pleural cavities (Figure 1-11d). The connective tissue of the mediastinum surrounds the pericardial cavity and heart, the large arteries and veins attached to the heart, and the thymus, trachea, and esophagus. The thoracic cavity contains three internal chambers: a single pericardial cavity and a pair of pleural cavities (Figure 1-11a). These cavities are lined by shiny, slippery serous membranes. The heart is surrounded by the pericardial cavity.
The mediastinum is the middle section of the chest cavity. The chest cavity contains the left and right lungs, which lie on either side of the heart. The heart is contained in the portion of the chest known as the mediastinum.
The pericardium (from the Greek περί, around and κάρδιον, heart) is a double-walled sac containing the heart and the roots of the great vessels. The pericardial sac has two layers, a serous layer and a fibrous layer. It encloses the pericardial cavity which contains pericardial fluid. 
The cavities, or spaces, of the body contain the internal organs, or viscera. The two main cavities are called the ventral and dorsal cavities. The ventral is the larger cavity and is subdivided into two parts (thoracic and abdominopelvic cavities) by the diaphragm, a dome-shaped respiratory muscle. Thoracic cavity The upper ventral, thoracic, or chest cavity contains the heart, lungs, trachea, esophagus, large blood vessels, and nerves. The thoracic cavity is bound laterally by the ribs (covered by costal pleura) and the diaphragm caudally (covered by diaphragmatic pleura). Abdominal and pelvic cavity.
Confidence votes 16.6K. The heart is in the thoracic cavity in a part called the mediastinum. It is protected by the pericardium, a membranous sac that surround the heart. The mediastinum is that space in the thoracic cavity between the lungs that contains the heart. It also contains the aorta, esophagus, trachea and thymus. The pleural cavity is the space in the chest between the lungs.
The mediastinum is artificially divided into the anterior, middle and posterior sections. The mediastinum contains all of the chest organs except the lungs. Organs located in the mediastinum include the heart, the aorta, the thymus gland, the chest portion of the trachea, the esophagus, lymph nodes and important nerves. The chest cavity contains the left and right lungs, which lie on either side of the heart. The heart is contained in the portion of the chest known as the mediastinum.
The pericardial cavity is the potential space formed between the two layers of serous pericardium around the heart. Normally, it contains a small amount of serous fluid that acts to reduce surface tension and lubricate. Therefore, the cavity facilitates the free movement of the heart. 
The heart is in the thoracic cavity in a part called the mediastinum. It is protected by the pericardium, a membranous sac that surround the heart. The mediastinum is that spa … ce in the thoracic cavity between the lungs that contains the heart. It also contains the aorta, esophagus, trachea and thymus. The pleural cavity is the space in the chest between the lungs. the area present between two lungs in chest cavity is called mediastenum.this is the place where heart is present.The mediastinum lies between the right and left pleurae pleuræ in … an d near the median sagittal plane of the. chest
The heart is located in the thoracic cavity, in the portion of the chest known as the mediastenum-the region between the pleural sacs and containing all the thoracic viscera except the lungs. The pericardium is the thin sac or membrane which contains the heart and the roots of the great blood vessels. When you refer to a body cavity, you would say the heart lies in the thorax or thoracic cavity. Within that cavity, it lies within the mediastenum, and is surrounded by the pericardium.