Your dose of clonazepam will depend on the condition you have and your response to the drug. Your doctor will start you at a low dose and increase your dose until you have a good response. This may take a few weeks. Clonazepam comes in tablets of 0.5, 1, and 2 milligrams (mg). A child’s dose to treat seizures depends on weight. A typical adult dose to treat panic disorder may start at 0.25 mg twice a day. After three days, your doctor may increase the dose to 1 mg a day. You’ll most likely take clonazepam one to three times a day at about the same time.
For determining clonazepam dosage for sleep, you would have to visit your doctor for proper diagnosis. Basically, clonazepam belongs to a class of medicines that assist in controlling the chemical function of the brain. 
The recommended starting clonazepam dose for treating seizures in adults is clonazepam 0.5 mg (or less) three times daily. Your healthcare provider may slowly increase your dose as necessary to control your seizures, up to a maximum of clonazepam 20 mg total per day (split up into three smaller doses per day). Clonazepam Dosing for Panic Disorder. The recommended starting clonazepam dose for treating panic disorder is clonazepam 0.25 mg twice daily. Your healthcare provider may increase your dose if necessary to control your panic disorder symptoms.
Panic Disorder. Adults: The initial dose for adults with panic disorder is 0.25 mg bid. An increase to the target dose for most patients of 1 mg/day may be made after 3 days. The recommended dose of 1 mg/day is based on the results from a fixed dose study in which the optimal effect was seen at 1 mg/day.
Klonopin Use. Benzodiazepines are typically prescribed for anxiety disorders, with clonazepam (klonopin) usually used as part of the treatment for seizures related to epilepsy. It is used for sleep disturbances because it does cause drowsiness and people have found it to be beneficial for sleep disorders. Klonopin is effective usually within 30-60 minutes after taking the medication. It has a half life of 30-40 hours, longer than many other benzodiazepines. For this reason the effect of the drug may be felt one or two days after taking the medication. 
While the initial clonazepam dosage is same for both, the clonazepam dosage for anxiety is a bit stronger. This is because the clonazepam dosage for sleep is taken once before bedtime only, while the clonazepam dosage for anxiety is taken twice a day, both of 0.25 mg. Tags: clonazepam dosage, Clonazepam Dosage for Anxiety, clonazepam dosage for sleep, clonazepam dosages, clonazepam dose, Determining Clonazepam Dosage for Sleep, Right Clonazepam Dosage for Sleep, Sleep Related Clonazepam Side Effects.
It has been observed that the right clonazepam dosage for sleep is usually the smallest one. It has been estimated that the clonazepam dosage for sleep should be somewhere about 0.25 mg, usually given at the bedtime. The right clonazepam dosage would assist in calming down the brain and leading to proper sleep and rest. You would find that the clonazepam dosage for sleep is somewhat similar to the clonazepam dosage for anxiety. Like clonazepam dosage for sleep, the initial clonazepam dosage for anxiety is 0.25 mg. Tags: clonazepam dosage, Clonazepam Dosage for Anxiety, clonazepam dosage for sleep, clonazepam dosages, clonazepam dose, Determining Clonazepam Dosage for Sleep, Right Clonazepam Dosage for Sleep, Sleep Related Clonazepam Side Effects.