ON. Akamai does not come right out and say it, but the reason NetSession is installed on your computer is to allow them to use your computer to upstream content to other users. By installing NetSession, you are allowing Akamai to use your idle bandwidth to upload files to other Akamai users. I'm describing what NetSession does. You're right that Akamai's primary purpose is to serve their clients' data. I think is less clear that if you have NetSession enabled, Akamai is using your computer to send their clients' data to other computers on the Internet.
The Akamai NetSession Interface is a secure application that may be installed on your computer to improve the speed, reliability, and efficiency for downloads and streams from the Internet. It is used by many software and media publishers to deliver files or streams to you. 1 When you find the program Akamai NetSession Interface, click it, and then do one of the following: 2  Windows Vista/7/8: Click Uninstall. 3  Windows XP: Click the Remove or Change/Remove tab (to the right of the program).
The Akamai NetSession Interface is a secure application that may be installed on your computer to improve the speed, reliability, and efficiency for application, data and media downloads and video streams from the Internet. NetSession provides a console that gives you the ability to review your NetSession activity and manage settings. 1  On Windows, open your Windows Control Panel, then click the icon or link to the Akamai NetSession Interface Control Panel.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Akamai is a company that has developed a global array of interconnected servers that cache content supplied by its Internet customers. This way the content is physically much … closer to the Internet user who wants to access it. Big companies purchase Akamai's service to speed up the upload time of their pages. Akamai has over 73,000 servers on nearly 1000 networks in 70 countries around the world. In 2010, A … kamai delivers between 15% and 30% of all Web traffic, and hundreds of million of daily Internet interaction.
No. The NetSession Interface is safe and secure and does not contain spyware, adware, or a virus. It does not gather and transmit your personal information, nor does it harm your computer. Its purpose is to be a tool to improve the speed, reliability, and efficiency for downloads and streams. NetSession provides a console that gives you the ability to review your NetSession activity and manage settings. 1  On Windows, open your Windows Control Panel, then click the icon or link to the Akamai NetSession Interface Control Panel.
1.2k Views. Akamai is a cloud-based service provider specialised in content acceleration and security. Akamai has an immensely high number of globally distributed servers (150k+) which are very close to end users. This is also combined with caching, route optimisations, and distributed security and firewall mechanisms.
Akamai Technologies, Inc. is a content delivery network or CDN and cloud services provider headquartered in Cambridge, Massachusetts, in the United States. Akamai delivers web content over its Intelligent Platform by transparently mirroring elements such as HTML, CSS, software downloads, and media objects from customers’ servers. The Akamai server is automatically picked depending on the type of content and the user's network location.
The Akamai Download Manager provides for effective, efficient file downloads, especially for large files. It also lets you pause and resume downloads, and it automatically starts to install your product when the download is complete. Akamai Download Manager doesn't work. If you can't download your Adobe product with the Akamai Download Manager, use the direct download links instead: 1  Go to the Adobe downloads page and start the download. 2  In the Akamai Download Manager Installer window, click the link (or links) to download the software directly.
No. Akamai NetSession Interface downloads or streams content to you only after you have requested it from your software or media publishers. Some content providers may provide you the ability to sign-up for background-delivered content. For example, a sports site may offer highlights delivered automatically. NetSession provides a console that gives you the ability to review your NetSession activity and manage settings. 1  On Windows, open your Windows Control Panel, then click the icon or link to the Akamai NetSession Interface Control Panel.