Definition: Bisque (noun) refers to ware which has been fired once and has no chemically bonded water left in the clay. Bisque is a true ceramic material, although the clay body has not yet reached maturity. To bisque (verb) is to fire the clay for the first time. Bisque fire (noun) is the first firing and is usually only to between cones 08 and 06 (1720 and 1835 degrees F or 945 and 1005 degrees C).
Bisque is also sometimes used to refer to cream-based soups that do not contain seafood, in which the sometimes pre-cooked ingredients are pureed or processed in a food processor or a food mill. Common varieties include squash, tomato, mushroom, popcorn, and red pepper. It is thought the name is derived from Biscay, as in Bay of Biscay, but the crustaceans are certainly bis cuites twice cooked (by analogy to a biscuit) for they are first sauteed sautéed lightly in their, shells then simmered in wine and aromatic, ingredients before being, strained followed by the addition of. cream
Genti and Hyers/Photodisc/Getty Images. Definition: A bisque is a rich, creamy soup made with shellfish — specifically, bisque is traditionally made with the pureed puréed meat of, crustaceans including, lobster, crab shrimp or. crayfish Bisque can be thickened with rice, which is the traditional method. Modern bisques are often thickened with roux. Additionally, although a classic bisque is made only with shellfish, some thick soups made with vegetables, poultry or meat are sometimes referred to as bisques.
Bisque. Bisque porcelain is unglazed, white ceramic ware. A popular use for bisque porcelain was the manufacture of bisque dolls in the 19th century. Bisque also refers to pottery that has been fired but not yet glazed. The porous nature of bisque earthenware means that it readily absorbs water, while vitreous ware and bone china are almost non-porous even without glazing
bisque 1. n. 1. a. A rich, creamy soup made from meat, fish, or shellfish. b. A thick cream soup made of pureed puréed. vegetables. 2 ice cream mixed with crushed macaroons or. nuts 
Capodimonte porcelain figure, c. 1790. Bisque porcelain or bisque is a type of unglazed, white porcelain, with a matte appearance and texture to the touch. It has been widely used in European pottery, mainly for objects that are not tableware and so do not need a glaze for protection. A popular use for bisque porcelain was the manufacture of bisque dolls in the 19th century, where the bisque was typically tinted or painted in flesh tones. Parian ware is a 19th-century type of bisque.
Bisque is a smooth, creamy, highly seasoned soup of French origin, classically based on a strained broth (coulis) of crustaceans. It can be made from lobster, crab, shrimp or crayfish. Also, creamy soups made from roasted and pureed puréed, fruits, vegetables or fungi are sometimes called. bisques It is thought the name is derived from Biscay, as in Bay of Biscay, but the crustaceans are certainly bis cuites twice cooked (by analogy to a biscuit) for they are first sauteed sautéed lightly in their, shells then simmered in wine and aromatic, ingredients before being, strained followed by the addition of. cream
Definition: A bisque is a rich, creamy soup made with shellfish — specifically, bisque is traditionally made with the pureed puréed meat of, crustaceans including, lobster, crab shrimp or. Crayfish when making, bisque the shells are roasted and then simmered to produce a highly flavorful stock which is then. thickened Bisque can be thickened with rice, which is the traditional method. Modern bisques are often thickened with roux. Additionally, although a classic bisque is made only with shellfish, some thick soups made with vegetables, poultry or meat are sometimes referred to as bisques.