Spirituality may refer to almost any kind of meaningful activity, personal growth, or blissful experience. Traditionally, spirituality refers to a process of re-formation of the personality but there is no single, agreed-upon definition of spirituality. Jihad is a religious duty of Muslims. In Arabic, the word jihād translates as a noun meaning struggle. There are two commonly accepted meanings of jihad: an inner spiritual struggle and an outer physical struggle.
The term ‘mysticism,’ comes from the Greek μυω, meaning “to conceal.” In the Hellenistic world, ‘mystical’ referred to “secret” religious rituals. In early Christianity the term came to refer to “hidden” allegorical interpretations of Scriptures and to hidden presences, such as that of Jesus at the Eucharist. An example of apophatic mysticism is in the classical Tao text, Tao Te Ching, attributed to Lao Tsu (6 th century B.C.E.), which begins with the words, “Even the finest teaching is not the Tao itself. Even the finest name is insufficient to define it.
T hat which is spiritual is sacred and the concept of sacred is interchangeable with the concept of holy-a word derived from an Old English word meaning, whole and perfect in goodness. A religious person may be spiritual, but a spiritual person is not necessarily religious. 
What is real spirituality but the art of union with Reality? Mysticism is a particularly focused part of spirituality; the mystic is a person who aims at and believes in the attainment of such union. Mysticism, and spirituality in general, seems to rise during times of intense change and stress. Add the sufficiency of current shadows and the breakdown of all certainties, and we have the ingredients for the current universal pursuit of spiritual realities.
The privatisation of mysticism – that is, the increasing tendency to locate the mystical in the psychological realm of personal experiences – serves to exclude it from political issues as social justice. In the widest sense, mysticism is every guidance to the immediate awareness of what is not reached by either perception or conception, or generally by any knowledge. The mystic is opposed to the philosopher by the fact that he begins from within, whereas the philosopher begins from without.
Mysticism is a constellation of distinctive practices, discourses, texts, institutions, traditions, and experiences aimed at human transformation, variously defined in different traditions.. The term mysticism has Ancient Greek origins with various historically determined meanings. In the widest sense, mysticism is every guidance to the immediate awareness of what is not reached by either perception or conception, or generally by any knowledge. The mystic is opposed to the philosopher by the fact that he begins from within, whereas the philosopher begins from without.
In modern times, mysticism has acquired a limited definition, with broad applications, as meaning the aim at the union with the Absolute, the Infinite, or God. This limited definition has been applied to a wide range of religious traditions and practices, valuing mystical experience as a key element of mysticism. In the widest sense, mysticism is every guidance to the immediate awareness of what is not reached by either perception or conception, or generally by any knowledge. The mystic is opposed to the philosopher by the fact that he begins from within, whereas the philosopher begins from without.
Noun. 1. mysticism-a religion based on mystical communion with an ultimate reality. religious mysticism. faith, religion, religious belief-a strong belief in a supernatural power or powers that control human destiny; he lost his faith but not his morality. 1. the principles, doctrines, and practices of mysticism. 2. the interpretation of mysteries, as the Eleusinian. — mystagogue, n. — mystagogic, mystagogical, adj. mystagogue. a teacher of mystical doctrines. omphalopsychism. the practice of staring at one’s navel to induce a mystical trance. Also called omphaloskepsis.
Spirituality has been defined in numerous ways, including a belief in a power operating in the universe that is greater than oneself, a sense of interconnectedness with all living creatures, and an awareness of the purpose and meaning of life and the development of personal, values. 
mystical. adjective mys·ti·cal \ˈmis-ti-kəl\. Tweet. : having a spiritual meaning that is difficult to see or understand. : of or relating to mystics or mysticism: resulting from prayer or deep thought. 