Best Answer: Mechanical energy is the energy which is possessed by an object due to its motion or due to its position. Mechanical energy can be either kinetic energy (energy of motion) or potential energy (stored energy of position).
Mechanical energy is the sum of kinetic and potential energy in an object that is used to do work. In other words, it is energy in an object due to its motion or position, or both.
In review, mechanical energy is energy possessed by an object due to its motion or its position. Energy is the ability to do work and work is accomplished when a force moves an object.
An object that possesses mechanical energy is able to do work. In fact, mechanical energy is often defined as the ability to do work. Any object that possesses mechanical energy-whether it is in the form of potential energy or kinetic energy-
Mechanical Energy versus Non-Mechanical Energy the difference between them is all about SIZE and SCALE Non-Mechanical Energy The energy of extremely small particles is not considered mechanical energy. But even the energy of But even the energy of these small particles can be described as either kinetic or potential. …is the energy of particles or objects that are too small to be seen Examples:atoms, molecules, electrons, photons, protons, quarks, etc. Examples of Mechanical Energy Examples of Non-Mechanical Energy.
Mechanical energy is the energy which is possessed by an object due to its motion or its stored energy of position. Mechanical energy can be either kinetic energy (energy of motion) or potential energy (stored energy of position).
In other words, an object possesses mechanical energy when it has the ability to do work due to its position or motion. Mechanical energy can take the form of either kinetic energy, which is energy due to an object's motion, or potential energy, which is stored energy due to an object's position.
The energy acquired by the objects upon which work is done is known as mechanical energy. Mechanical energy is the energy that is possessed by an object due to its motion or due to its position. Mechanical energy can be either kinetic energy (energy of motion) or potential energy (stored energy of position).
Mechanical Energy is the energy that an object has due to is motion or position, this can be either kinetic energy or potential energy. Non Mechanical Energy on the other hand is energy that does not fall into the category of energy from position or movement.