Cannabis is grown all over the world; in fields as a crop or inside buildings-as long as there is water and artificial light. Different weather and soil conditions can change the amounts of the chemicals inside the plant, which means that certain parts of the world produce stronger cannabis than others. Cannabis is used in many ways: Marijuana and hashish can be smoked in cigarette-form, as blunts (cigars hollowed out and filled with the drug), or smoked through a water pipe called a bong or a hookah. Hashish is sometimes placed between two heated knife blades, and then users inhale the resulting smoke.
Marijuana is derived from a hemp plant that is called Cannabis Sativa. This plant is being grown indoors and outdoors all over the world. Marijuana looks like a flowery, leafy, or bud-like substance which can appear similar to tobacco, with the exception of the greenish color. In 1970, marijuana was classified as a Schedule I drug, meaning it had the highest abuse potential and was not acceptable for medical use. At this time most marijuana came mainly from Mexico.
Marijuana  or  marihuana , etc., is a name for the cannabis plant and a drug preparation made from it. The form marihuana is first attested in Mexican Spanish; it then spread to other varieties of Spanish and to English, French, and other languages. The term, originally spelled variously as marihuana, mariguana, etc., originated in Mexican Spanish. The ultimate derivation is unknown.
If you are buying your marijuana on the street it is almost impossible to know where it came from. There are no great resources that I can find that can really say how much marijuana is imported or how much comes from the US. 
The term comes from the Mexican word marihuana.. Those in charge (Like Henry J. Anslinger) of marijuana prohibition in the 1920's, when the term became widely us … ed, used the Mexican term to help create a negative attitude toward the plant. Confidence votes 32. Marijuana is the dried buds (and leaves too, sometimes) of the Cannabis Sativa plant. Unlike drugs like heroin, cocaine, or LSD, marijuana does not need to be synthesized or specially prepared. The dried buds themselves are smoked through a pipe, bong, joint, blunt, etc
Germanic tribes brought the drug into Germany, and marijuana went from there to Britain during the 5th century with the Anglo-Saxon invasions. [See map of marijuana's spread throughout the world.]. This map shows how marijuana spread throughout the world, from its origins on the steppes of Central Asia. Credit: Barney Warf, University of Kansas. View full size image. Cannabis seeds have also been found in the remains of Viking ships dating to the mid-ninth century, Warf wrote in the study. In the report, author Barney Warf describes how cannabis use originated thousands of years ago in Asia, and has since found its way to many regions of the world, eventually spreading to the Americas and the United States.
Much of the marijuana consumed in the U.S. comes from Mexico. It’s impossible to know exactly, but my colleagues and I put the range at 40 to 67 percent for 2008. 
The use of marijuana quickly spread from China to India, and then to northern Africa. The use of marijuana reached the continent of Europe as early as A.D. 500. In India, marijuana was quite clearly being used recreationally, even in these early times. In 1970, marijuana was classified as a Schedule I drug, meaning it had the highest abuse potential and was not acceptable for medical use. At this time most marijuana came mainly from Mexico.