Overview. shomi is a brand new video streaming service that brings together the best of technology with active content curators to give you an unforgettable entertainment experience. shomi can be accessed through shomi.com, the mobile shomi app, and directly through your Shaw digital box, Gateway, or PVR. 
Posts: 1. When are you releasing some solution for Apple TV and/or Airplay. I have shomi right now as part of the internet package but without being able to watch on the big screen, it seems a little useless. I saw somewhere on the forum that it would be early 2015. 
At launch, shomi will boast 11,000 hours of TV shows — including 340 series — and 1,200 movies. Each TV show will include all of the past seasons, right up to the most current episode. To compare, Netflix Canada has about 4,000 titles, but users often complain that the content is not as good as Netflix’s U.S. service. Users can watch content on up to two devices at a time – but there is no limit to how many people access shomi through their cable boxes. Here is what the #shomi interface looks like on tablet. Nice large images, tap and hold for more info, trailers.
shomi is a new kind of video-streaming service for Rogers Internet or TV customers, which puts a huge selection of movies and TV series right at your fingertips. For a low monthly fee, watch as much as you’d like, however you’d like – on your TV or streamed to your desktop computer, laptop, tablet or smartphone. Watch at home or on the go. Whenever or wherever you need an injection of entertainment, shomi video-streaming service delivers it. You love movies and TV. You love watching them at home, on the go, whenever the mood strikes. And you love the idea of making new discoveries when it comes to films, series, directors and all things entertainment.
Shomi content can be accessed as an over-the-top service through the service's website and apps, or through the video on demand libraries of participating television providers. 
Description. HEY!! shomi is a new kind of video streaming service created for people who love to be entertained, by people who love entertainment. We have movies you WANT to watch, shows you NEED to binge and collections you HAVE to try. We also have TONS of hit TV shows you can’t find on any other streaming service
Shomi will be heavy on TV at launch when it is set to feature 11,000 hours of television from 340 series and 14,000 episodes. It will also include 1,200 movies and about 30 per cent of the content will be Canadian. Barbara Williams, VP of content for Shaw and Keith Pelley, president of Rogers Media pose with a tablet showing the new Rogers-Shaw streaming video-on-demand service, Shomi, at the launch event in Toronto, Aug. 26, 2014.
Xbox 360 users will also be able to access shomi through their consoles. Users can watch content on up to two devices at a time – but there is no limit to how many people access shomi through their cable boxes. Here is what the #shomi interface looks like on tablet. Nice large images, tap and hold for more info, trailers.
Shaw Communications and Rogers Communications have teamed up to create “shomi,” an on-demand video streaming service that will give Canadians access to thousands of movies and TV shows. Users can watch content on up to two devices at a time – but there is no limit to how many people access shomi through their cable boxes. Here is what the #shomi interface looks like on tablet. Nice large images, tap and hold for more info, trailers.