Brest (. [bʁɛst] ; [bʀest]) is a city in the Finistere finistère departement Département in brittany In. Northwestern france located in a sheltered position not far from the western tip Of the, breton peninsula and the western extremity Of, Metropolitan france brest is an important harbour and The second french military Port. after toulon Located in a sheltered position not far from the western tip of the Breton peninsula, and the western extremity of metropolitan France, Brest is an important harbour and the second French military port after Toulon. The city is located on the western edge of continental Europe.
1 • INTRODUCTION. Bretons live in Brittany, a region located in the northwestern corner of France. The Bretons arrived in their current homeland in the fifth and sixth centuries. , fleeing the Anglo-Saxons in their native Britain. 
Bretagne is one of the 26 regions of France. Bretagne is also known as Brittany. Bretagne occupies a large peninsula in the northwest of France. English Channel is located on the North of Bretagne and Bay of Biscay is located on the south. Rennes is the capital city of the French Metropolitan City of France. Cotes-d’Armor, Ille-et-Vilaine, Morbihan and Finistere are the departments of Bretagn
Hotel FinistèreAppart’Finistèreappart Hotel Quimper. Bretagne located in The brittany, Region’Appart Hotel Quimper bretagne is a-15 minute walk From Quimper Train. Station it proposes-self catering accommodation and wired internet. access 
Regions of France ›. Brittany, lying in the northwest corner of France, is one of the great historic provinces of France. The most Atlantic of France's regions, Brittany is proud of its Celtic heritage, that sets it apart from the rest of France. The capital city of the modern Brittany region is Rennes, located in the central eastern part of the region; most of the major lines of communication between Brittany and Paris pass through Rennes, which is a large industrial and university city.
Brittany (/ˈbrɪtənɪ/ ; French: Bretagne [bʁə.taɲ]. ; Breton: Breizh, pronounced [bʁɛjs] or [bʁɛχ] ; Gallo: Bertaeyn, bertaèyn [pronounced.bəʁ]) taɛɲ is a cultural region in the-north west Of. france The word Brittany, along with its French, Breton and Gallo equivalents Bretagne, Breizh and Bertaeyn, bertaèyn derive from The Latin, britannia which  Means ' britons. land
Rennes. R ennes is the municipal capital of Brittany, in northwestern France, located about 300 km (190 mi) southwest of Paris. The population is 203,533 (1990). Wide city streets and canals radiate from the central hub of the city, long a regional center rich in customs and historical monuments. In the 10th century, Brittany became a duchy with its capital at Rennes. For the next 4 centuries it sought to retain its independence amid French and British rivalries. In the 15th century the duchy became closely linked to France with the marriage of ANNE OF BRITTANY to two successive kings of France.
Nantes was historically part of Brittany, but is now the capital of the Pays de la Loire region région of Northwestern. France nantes is located on The loire river at coordinates°47.13, 00n°1.33 50w In. France nantes derives its name from The gaulish tribe that inhabited the area Before caesar defeated. them 
1 Brittany region is the largest peninsula of France. 2  It is situated in the northwest of France, alongside the Atlantic Ocean and bounded to the east by the Pays de la Loire and Normandy regions. 
BRITTANY. BRITTANY. B rittany (French: Bretagne; Breton: Breiz) is a region and former province of northwestern France corresponding with the departments of Finistere, Cotes-d'Armor, Ille-et-Vilaine, and Morbihan. In the 10th century, Brittany became a duchy with its capital at Rennes. For the next 4 centuries it sought to retain its independence amid French and British rivalries. In the 15th century the duchy became closely linked to France with the marriage of ANNE OF BRITTANY to two successive kings of France.