The innate immune system, also known as the nonspecific immune system, is an important subsystem of the overall immune system that comprises the cells and mechanisms that defend the host from infection by other organisms. Natural killer cells, or NK cells, are a component of the innate immune system that does not directly attack invading microbes. Rather, NK cells destroy compromised host cells, such as tumor cells or virus-infected cells, recognizing such cells by a condition known as missing self..
n. The component of the immune system in vertebrates involving cells that are modified to attack the specific antigens they encounter, as distinguished from the more nonspecific innate immune system. The adaptive immune system comprises lymphocytes (B cells and T cells) having a small number of genetically encoded proteins that can combine in such a way as to produce an enormous variety of proteins, having the potential to fight any antigen encountered.
Pathogens are viruses and microorganisms (bacteria, fungi, protozoans, parasites) that cause disease. The body is equipped with two types of defense mechanisms to fight infection: innate (nonspecific) resistance, the 1st and 2nd lines of defense. adaptive (specific) resistance (immunity), the 3rd line of defense. B. Innate (Nonspecific) Defenses = protection against a wide range of pathogens. Mechanisms include species resistance, mechanical barriers, chemical barriers, fever, inflammation and phagocytosis. C. Adaptive (Specific) Defenses or Immunity is protection against particular disease-causing agents. It is our third line of defense against infection. Antigens (Ag's). a. Definition: An antigen is a substance (usually a protein) that causes the formation of an antibody and reacts specifically with that antibody.
noun (plural immunities). 1 [mass noun] The ability of an organism to resist a particular infection or toxin by the action of specific antibodies or sensitized white blood cells: immunity to typhoid seems to have increased spontaneously. More example sentences. 1  Natural combativeness, an innate immunity to being cowed by the biggest names or the biggest occasions in football, is obviously a vital part of the equipment he carries on to the field. 2  But they also promise a partial immunity to the passage of time. 1
Types of immunity: Immunity is the resistance to infection by invading micro-organisms. Using the processes just described, the body is able to respond quickly enough to deal with any invasion by pathogenic micro-organisms before symptoms of disease occur. When the antigen is presented to the T cells in the lymph node by the B cells, the T cells for that antigen become activated or sensitised. The T cells that do not become memory cells develop further, producing three different types of T cells.
Infection is caused by the presence and multiplication of pathogens. Pathogens are. viruses and microorganisms (bacteria, fungi, protozoans, parasites) that cause. disease. The body is equipped with two types of defense mechanisms to fight infection; these. include nonspecific resistance and specific immumity. B. Nonspecific Resistance = protection against a wide range of pathogens. 
Development of Ab response(Activated B cells interact with T helper cells). -Helper T cells secrete cytokines, which further activate B cells-B cells differentiate into-Plasma cells-Ab-producing cells in the blood stream-B memory cells-remain in tissues, responsible for immunologic memory.
The cells of the innate system recognize and respond to pathogens in a generic way, but, unlike the adaptive immune system (which is found only in vertebrates), it does not confer long-lasting or protective immunity to the host. Natural killer cells, or NK cells, are a component of the innate immune system that does not directly attack invading microbes. Rather, NK cells destroy compromised host cells, such as tumor cells or virus-infected cells, recognizing such cells by a condition known as missing self..
Term. B.The cell immediate immune system. Definition. -active at cellular and blood level-T-cells are involved which produce lymphokines (a group of proteins that regulate the activities of other cells) -antibodies are not involved-effective mostly against intracellular bacteria, virus and fungi. 