Adults. Healthy adults have a heart rate of between 60 and 90 or 100 beats per minute, depending on the expert source. People who exercise regularly have a resting heart rate closer to the lowest end of the scale. A number of factors can cause your heart rate to be at the top of the scale. 
1 A normal adult resting heart beat is between 60-100 heartbeats per minute. 2  Some experienced athletes may see their resting heartrate fall below 60 beats per minute. 3  Tachycardia refers to the heart beating too fast at rest-over 100 beats per minute. Your pulse is your heart rate, or the number of times your heart beats in one minute. 2 Pulse rates vary from person to person. Your pulse is lower when you are at rest and increases when you exercise (more oxygen-rich blood is needed by the body when you exercise).
How fast can the human heart beat is a fascinating topic full of interesting facts. The human heart generally beats 60 to 80 times a minute, though anywhere between 60 and 100 beats per minute is considered normal, according to the Heart Rhythm Society. The heart beat increases during exercise, up to 160 to 180 beats per minute. 
You can tell how fast your heart is beating (your heart rate) by feeling your pulse. Your heart-rate is the amount of times your heart beats in one minute. You will need a watch with a second hand. Place your index and middle finger of your hand on the inner wrist of the other arm, just below the base of the thumb. You should feel a tapping or pulsing against your fingers. At rest, the SA node causes your heart to beat about 50 to 100 times each minute. During activity or excitement, your body needs more oxygen-rich blood; the heart rate rises to well over 100 beats per minute. Medications and some medical conditions may affect how fast your heart-rate is at rest and with exercise.
Most adults have a resting heart rate of 60-100 beats per minute (bpm). The fitter you are, the lower your resting heart rate is likely to be. For example, athletes may have a resting heart rate of 40-60 bpm or lower. You should contact your GP if you think your heart rate is continuously above 120 bpm or below 40 bpm, although this could just be normal for you. You can check your pulse by counting how many times your heart beats in a minute. This is also known as your heart rate. Your heart rate can vary, depending on what you're doing. For example, it will be slower if you're sleeping and faster if you're exercising.
You check your pulse rate by counting the beats in a set period of time (at least 15 to 20 seconds) and multiplying that number to get the number of beats per minute. Your pulse changes from minute to minute. It will be faster when you exercise, have a fever, or are under stress. Your pulse is the rate at which your heart beats. Your pulse is usually called your heart rate, which is the number of times your heart beats each minute (bpm). But the rhythm and strength of the heartbeat can also be noted, as well as whether the blood vessel feels hard or soft.
1 Your heart rate is the number of times per minute that the heart beats. 2  Heart rate rises significantly in response to adrenaline if a person is frightened or surprised. 3  Taking a person's pulse is a direct measure of heart rate. Your pulse is your heart rate, or the number of times your heart beats in one minute. 2 Pulse rates vary from person to person. Your pulse is lower when you are at rest and increases when you exercise (more oxygen-rich blood is needed by the body when you exercise).
Multiply that number by 6 to find out your heart-rate for one minute: Pulse in 10 seconds x 6 = ____ beats per minute (your heart-rate). When feeling your pulse, you can also tell if your heart rhythm is regular or not. At rest, the SA node causes your heart to beat about 50 to 100 times each minute. During activity or excitement, your body needs more oxygen-rich blood; the heart rate rises to well over 100 beats per minute. Medications and some medical conditions may affect how fast your heart-rate is at rest and with exercise.
Best Answer: hi, i am a doctor.. the resting heartbeat is around 72 beats per minute.. however, 60 to 80 is normal.. the heart rate increases with excitement, disease such as thyrotoxicosis and many other factors.. if the heart rate is too slow it is called bradycardia if its too fast its tachycardia..