Microscopic image of gram-negative Pseudomonas aeruginosa bacteria (pink-red rods). Gram-negative bacteria are a group of bacteria that do not retain the crystal violet stain used in the Gram staining method of bacterial differentiation, making positive identification possible.
Nearby & related entries: 1  gram-negative aerobic bacteria. 2  gram-negative aerobic rods and cocci. 3  gram-negative anaerobic bacteria. 4  gram-negative anaerobic cocci. 5  gram-negative anaerobic straight, curved, and helical rods. 6  gram-negative bacterial infections. 7  gram-negative chemolithotrophic bacteria. 
Gram negative bacilli. There are many Gram-negative bacilli of medical significance. The most important of these are members of the family Enterobacteriaceae. Other genera of medical importance include Vibrio, Campylobacter and Pseudomonas. 
gram-negative. Relating to a group of bacteria that generally are resistant to the effects of antibiotics or the actions of the body's immune cells. Gram-negative bacteria have relatively thin cell walls and, when subjected to a specialized laboratory staining method, do not change color. Compare gram-posi
Gram-negative. Definition. adjective. Of, or relating to the group of bacteria that take the color of the counterstain (i.e. pink) under the microscope following gram staining. Supplement. Gram staining enables observers to get a clearer view of the morphology of bacterial cells under the microscope. Basically, gram-positive bacteria are those that appear violet or bluish under the microscope whereas gram-negative bacteria are those that appear pink. Initially, all bacteria in a bacterial smear on the slide are stained violet.
Gram-positive. Definition. adjective. Of, or relating to that group of bacteria that retain the violet stain following Gram's method. Supplement. The term gram-positive is used to link to a group of bacteria that retains the violet colour stain through Gram's method. Bacteria that retain the colour violet after gram staining are referred to as gram-positive in contrast to those that stain pink. The latter group is described as gram-negative.
gram-negative. Relating to a group of bacteria that generally are resistant to the effects of antibiotics or the actions of the body's immune cells. Gram-negative bacteria have relatively thin cell walls and, when subjected to a specialized laboratory staining method, do not change color. Compare gram-positive.
Definition. Classification of bacteria according to what color stain they retain. A sample of bacteria (on a slide) is first stained with a violet dye. The slide is then rinsed with ethanol and (if the violet stain washes off) a red dye is added. 
Violet stained gram-positive cocci and pink stained gram-negative rod-shaped bacteria. Gram-positive bacteria are bacteria that give a positive result in the Gram stain test. Gram-positive bacteria take up the crystal violet stain used in the test, and then appear to be purple-coloured when seen through a microscope.
gram-negative. said of bacteria that are decolorized by alcohol in Gram's method of staining (see gram's stain), and are thus stained only with the counter stain (usually red). Gram-negative bacteria have a much thinner layer of peptidoglycan in the cell wall than Gram-positive bacteria.