Invictus, meaning unconquerable or undefeated in Latin, is a poem by William Ernest Henley. The poem was written while Henley was in the hospital being treated for tubercu … losis of the bone, also known as Pott's disease. I think the word bludgeoning generally refers to all the trials and tribulations suffered by William Henley and specifically to his hospitalization with tuberculosis of the bo … ne. In the movie Invictus the word refers generally to the trials of Nelson Mandella and specifically to his thirty year imprisonment.
Confidence votes 169. Invictus, meaning unconquerable or undefeated in Latin, is a poem by William Ernest Henley. The poem was written while Henley was in the hospital being treated for tuberculosis of the bone, also known as Pott's disease. I think the word bludgeoning generally refers to all the trials and tribulations suffered by William Henley and specifically to his hospitalization with tuberculosis of the bo … ne. In the movie Invictus the word refers generally to the trials of Nelson Mandella and specifically to his thirty year imprisonment.
Invicta has been a motto for centuries. Roma invicta is a Latin phrase, meaning Unconquered Rome, inscribed on the Statue of Rome. It was an inspirational motto used until the Fall of the Western Roman Empire in 476 AD.
Invictus, meaning “unconquerable” or “undefeated” in Latin, is a poem by William Ernest Henley. The poem was written while Henley was in the hospital being treated for tuberculosis of the bone, also known as Pott’s disease. 
Found on http://www.wordinfo.info/words/index/info/view_unit/2301/2. `Invictus` is a short Victorian poem by the English poet William Ernest Henley (1849–1903). It was written in 1875 and published in 1888 in his first volume of poems, Book of Verses, where it is the fourth poem in the section Life and Death (Echoes). It originally had no title. Found on http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Invictus_(Iconoclast_III). [Means] Invictus (Means) Unconquered is an album released by country musician David Allan Coe. It was released in 1981 on Columbia. ==Track listing== == Personnel == ==Chart performance== ...
The latin word for Invincible. It is also the title of the popular optimist poem by William Ernest Henley. 
Invictus. Invictus is a short Victorian poem by the English poet William Ernest Henley. It was first published in 1875 in a book called Book of Verses, where it was number four in several poems called Life and Death. 
But as the poem Invictus states, Henley had an “unconquerable soul.” The word Invictus is Latin for unconquered. Henley wrote the poem so that every other line rhymed. The rhythm of the poem is obvious as the reader is astonished by the powerful lines and message of Invictus. Invictus by William Ernest Henley is a powerful poem portraying the fate of human beings. The author clearly is writing about his own struggles for his pain is obvious in the poem. Henley suffered from terrible health problems and also had a child who passed during his own lifetime.
The Meaning. The title “Invictus” is a Latin word which means “undefeated” or “unconquerable”. This is clearly seen in the tone of the poem. The poet, Henley was faced with an ugly situation. He suffered from tuberculosis of the bone right from his early years in life. The The Meaning of Invictus is provided below by first giving a brief description on the background followed by the poem structure and its meaning. The Background. “ Invictus ” is a very short Victorian poem written by William Ernest Henley. He was an English poet who lived within 1849 – 1903.
Additional Information. Latin: Example from your definition of unconquerable The meticulous note set down the words to Invictus, a poem about the  unconquerable soul of the human spirit in the face of death. SUN, NEWS OF THE WORLD (2001). 