Simvastatin 20 mg Tablets. Simvastatin (Zocor ®) is a medication often used for the treatment of high cholesterol and high triglycerides. It is approved for use in both adults and children. The medicine, which is available by prescription only, comes in tablet form and several different strengths, including: 1  5 mg tablets. 2  10 mg t
Uses. Simvastatin is used along with a proper diet to help lower bad cholesterol and fats (such as LDL, triglycerides) and raise good cholesterol (HDL) in the blood. It belongs to a group of drugs known as  statins .. It works by reducing the amount of cholesterol made by the liver. Be sure to tell your doctor and pharmacist about all the products you use (including prescription drugs, nonprescription drugs, and herbal products). Chinese patients taking niacin may require lower doses of simvastatin. Ask your doctor for more details. The usual maximum dose for this medication is 40 milligrams a day.
It is used along with exercise, diet, and weight loss to decrease elevated lipid levels. It is also used to decrease the risk of heart problems in those at high risk. The primary uses of simvastatin are for the treatment of dyslipidemia and the prevention of cardiovascular disease. It is recommended to be used only after other measures such as diet, exercise, and weight reduction have not improved cholesterol levels sufficiently. Simvastatin is a powerful lipid-lowering drug that can decrease low density lipoprotein (LDL) levels by up to 50%. It is used in doses of 5 to 80 mg. In secondary prevention, 80 mg per day reduced major cardiovascular events by an absolute rate of 1.2% compared with 20 mg per day in a randomized controlled trial.
Simvastatin is also used to lower the risk of stroke, heart attack, and other heart complications in people with diabetes, coronary heart disease, or other risk factors. Simvastatin is used in adults and children who are at least 10 years old. Simvastatin may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide.
×. Simvastatin is used along with a proper diet to help lower bad cholesterol and fats (such as LDL, triglycerides) and raise good cholesterol (HDL) in the blood. It belongs to a group of drugs known as  statins .. It works by reducing the amount of cholesterol made by the liver. Be sure to tell your doctor and pharmacist about all the products you use (including prescription drugs, nonprescription drugs, and herbal products). Chinese patients taking niacin may require lower doses of simvastatin. Ask your doctor for more details. The usual maximum dose for this medication is 40 milligrams a day.
High Cholesterol or Triglycerides Treatment. Simvastatin is used for treating high cholesterol in those people who cannot lower cholesterol through lifestyle changes alone. Simvastatin can lower total cholesterol and LDL ( bad cholesterol ) and increase HDL ( good cholesterol ). Simvastatin has also been shown to lower triglyceride levels in the blood. Simvastatin is a medicine that has been licensed to treat several conditions. These Simvastatin uses are as follows: 1  Treatment of high cholesterol (hypercholesterolemia). 2  Treatment of high triglycerides. 3  Prevention of heart or blood vessel disease (known as cardiovascular disease).
Adco-simvastatin. Simvastatin is the active ingredient of Adco-Simvastatin, Arrow Simvastatin, Aspen Simvastatin, Austell-Simvastatin, Cipla-Simvastatin, Lipidex, Merck-Simvastatin, Simayla-Simvastatin, Simcard, Simvacor, Simvotin and Zocor. General information. Alert your doctor before using this drug if: 1  you have a liver or kidney disease. 2  you have a disease affecting your muscles. 3  you have a thyroid disorder. 4  you high blood pressure or angina. 5  you have porphyria. 6  you are consuming large amounts of alcohol on a regular basis, or.
Simvastatin is in a group of drugs called HMG CoA reductase inhibitors, or  statins .. Simvastatin reduces levels of bad cholesterol (low-density lipoprotein, or LDL) and triglycerides in the blood, while increasing levels of good cholesterol (high-density lipoprotein, or HDL). Simvastatin is used in adults and children who are at least 10 years old. Simvastatin may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide.
For people with type 2 diabetes and other risk factors for heart disease, Simvastatin is used for decreasing the chances of a heart attack or stroke. Simvastatin is a medicine that has been licensed to treat several conditions. These Simvastatin uses are as follows: 1  Treatment of high cholesterol (hypercholesterolemia). 2  Treatment of high triglycerides. 3  Prevention of heart or blood vessel disease (known as cardiovascular disease).