This Site Might Help You. RE: How do you pronounce &#39;Beatrice&#39;? Hmm.... I&#39;ve always read this name in books, like Junie B Jones, and I&#39;ve always wondered how to pronounce it. I say it as &#39;bee-trise&#39;, but everyone teases and says it&#39;s &#39;beya-tris&#39;. HOW DO YOU PRONOUNCE IT?!
Name: In the News: Pinky Thakkar (silent h), an engineer from Mumbai, started the Web site www.pronouncenames.com after she moved to San Jose, Calif., and mispronounced the J in San Jose, not giving it the H sound used in Spanish words ... Read More. Website Offers Help On Pronouncing Names.
6,165. Names, once they are in common use, quickly become mere sounds, their etymology being buried, like so many of the earth's marvels, beneath the dust of habit.. Lemon :-).  Names, once they are in common use, quickly become mere sounds, their etymology being buried, like so many of the earth's marvels, beneath the dust of habit.  - Salman Rushdie.
I personally don't like Bea (if is it pronounced like the small insect) as a nn. No one out there should take offense, because I believe most people think consider name/nn combo adorable. It really is just me. But then I'm not sure if they use the x. Interesting! Here are a few thoughts -- a true classic like Beatrice that moves through time and languages probably has many pronunciation and variation with no one right way -- to spell or say it.
Re: Pronunciation of Bea. Bea is bee, just like Bee. But I have seen Beah-like Leah-for the [bee-uh] pronunciation! Lemon :-).  Names, once they are in common use, quickly become mere sounds, their etymology being buried, like so many of the earth's marvels, beneath the dust of habit.  - Salman Rushdie. Boy Combinations: Archer Solomon James, Ronan Charles Bennett, Everett Hawthorn Thomas.
Learn how to say words in English correctly with Emma Saying free pronunciation tutorials. Over 140,000 words were already uploaded... Check them out! Visit my homepage: http://www.emmasaying.com ~. Care to show your support? Buy Emma Saying t-shirt here: http://www.cafepress.com/emmasaying. 
Shall I continue, there are a few more. I think Bea is perfectly acceptable. I'm usually not a fan of short, one syllable names, but Bea is an exception. I don't know why I like it, but it's sweet, and I'd encourage parents to use this as a first name. 
I've heard the name prounounced as Bee-Ah-Tricks and also with an emphasis on the 2nd syllable Bee-AT-Tricks. I'm not really fond of the name and I also just feel that it is would be extremely weird to hear a toddler or child called Beatrix. But then I'm not sure if they use the x. Interesting! Here are a few thoughts -- a true classic like Beatrice that moves through time and languages probably has many pronunciation and variation with no one right way -- to spell or say it.
Plus you can view images related to the word or name you're searching for, it comes in handy in case you're not sure or you don't even know what it means or looks like: you can also select the tabs above (photos, faces, clip art and drawings). You'll get multiple results at once: the pronunciations on the right, images and pictures on the left and some videos below. So you can easily understand what the word is about, what it looks like, see photos of people by their name, or information about a location, a city, products or whatever else.