A jinx, in popular superstition and folklore, is: 1  A type of curse placed on a person that makes them prey to many minor misfortunes and other forms of bad luck; 2  A person afflicted with a similar curse, who, while not directly subject to a series of misfortunes, seems to attract them to anyone in his vicinity. 
jinxed, jinx·ing, jinx·es. noun. 1  A person or thing that is believed to bring bad luck. 2  A condition or period of bad luck that appears to have been caused by a specific person or thing. noun. verb. The definition of a jinx is something that gives you bad luck. An example of a jinx is a charm that someone says is cursed. To jinx is defined as to bring someone bad luck. An example of jinx is to tell someone that they won’t do well at a competition
jinx noun [S]. › ​bad ​luck, or a ​person or thing that is ​believed to ​bring ​bad ​luck: There's a jinx on this ​computer – it's ​crashed three ​times this ​morning! 
jinx. n. 1. A person or thing that is believed to bring bad luck. 2. A condition or period of bad luck that appears to have been caused by a specific person or thing. tr.v. jinxed, jinx·ing, jinx·es. To bring bad luck to. [Possibly from. 
jinx. n. 1. A person or thing that is believed to bring bad luck. 2. A condition or period of bad luck that appears to have been caused by a specific person or thing. tr.v. jinxed, jinx·ing, jinx·es. To bring bad luck to. [Possibly from. , wryneck (from its use in witchcraft) , from Latin
JINX Vines #JCTG-Duration: 6 minutes, 53 seconds. 
Jinx is an unusual first name for women. Jinx is an unusual surname too for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the birth name popularity of Jinx for girls. Jinx has yet to be recorded in the list thus far. 
Example Sentences Including 'jinx'. How she had yearned to be rid of this jinx, this albatross, this constant source of friction between them. This woman was a jinx, should wear a red P on the front of her clothes. He's trying to rattle me, he said to himself, trying to jinx me so I can't succeed. 
What is a jinx? A jinx is formed when two people speak the same words at the same time, whoever says jinx first then the other person is jinxed. 