Plasmodium falciparum is a protozoan parasite that causes an infectious disease known as malaria. P. falciparum is the most severe strain of the malaria species correlated with almost every malarial death. [1] The other 3 species that cause malaria include: P. vivax, P. ovale, and P. malariae. [3] There are four common species of Malaria of which P. falciparum is the most severe. Plasmodium falciparum continues to increase in drug-resistant populations and insecticide-resistant mosquitoes leading to the prediction that the disease will only worsen over time.
Of the four species that infect humans, P. falciparum and P. vivax cause the most infections, and P. falciparum causes the most severe, potentially fatal malaria. Each of the four species has a distinctive appearance under the microscope, and produces a different pattern of symptoms. Signs and Symptoms. The symptoms of malaria include recurring attacks of chills, followed by fever and then sweating. (4) Other symptoms that may be present include headache, muscle aches, joint pain, tiredness, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, anemia, and jaundice.
Common symptoms of malaria. In the early stages, malaria symptoms are sometimes similar to those of many other infections caused by bacteria, viruses, or parasites. Symptoms may include: 1  Fever. 2  Chills. 3  Headache. 4  Sweats. 5  Fatigue. 6  Nausea and vomiting
Disease. The disease malaria is caused by infection by a protozoan of the genus Plasmodium. While approximately 156 species of Plasmodium are known to infect various vertebrates, only four species infect humans. (2) Plasmodium falciparum, P. vivax, P. ovale, and P. malariae are the parasites that cause malaria in humans. Signs and Symptoms. The symptoms of malaria include recurring attacks of chills, followed by fever and then sweating. (4) Other symptoms that may be present include headache, muscle aches, joint pain, tiredness, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, anemia, and jaundice.
Malaria parasites belong to the genus Plasmodium (phylum Apicomplexa). In humans, malaria is caused by P. falciparum, P. malariae, P. ovale, P. vivax and P. knowlesi. Among those infected, P. falciparum is the most common species identified (~75%) followed by P. vivax (~20%). Malaria causes symptoms that typically include fever, fatigue, vomiting, and headaches. In severe cases it can cause yellow skin, seizures, coma or death. The disease is transmitted by the biting of mosquitos, and the symptoms usually begin ten to fifteen days after being bitten.
Malaria: An infectious disease caused by protozoan parasites from the Plasmodium family that can be transmitted by the bite of the Anopheles mosquito or by a contaminated needle or transfusion. Falciparum malaria is the most deadly type. 
Avian malaria is a disease caused by species of parasites, of the genus Plasmodium, which infects birds. Just like human malaria, it is spread by mosquitoes, and the parasites spend part of their lives in red blood cells of birds. 
The parasites travel to the liver where they mature and reproduce. Five species of Plasmodium can infect and be spread by humans. Most deaths are caused by P. falciparum because P. vivax, P. ovale, and P. malariae generally cause a milder form of malaria. The species P. knowlesi rarely causes disease in humans. Malaria causes symptoms that typically include fever, fatigue, vomiting, and headaches. In severe cases it can cause yellow skin, seizures, coma or death. The disease is transmitted by the biting of mosquitos, and the symptoms usually begin ten to fifteen days after being bitten.
Infection with malaria parasites may result in a wide variety of symptoms, ranging from absent or very mild symptoms to severe disease and even death. Malaria disease can be categorized as uncomplicated or severe (complicated) . In general, malaria is a curable disease if diagnosed and treated promptly and correctly. 