Nutrition. Bacteria are generally classified as either helpful or harmful. Bacteria can be found everywhere, and appear on every surface and every part of the human body. The helpful bacteria are those commonly found in yogurt and in the making of cheeses, and are good for the intestinal tract
Streptococcus salivarius subsp. thermophilus (previous name Streptococcus thermophilus) is a gram-positive bacteria and a homofermentative facultative anaerobe, of the viridans group. It tests negative for cytochrome, oxidase and catalase, and positive for alpha-hemolytic activity. Antibiotics can have the adverse effect of destroying beneficial bacteria and causing harmful bacteria to multiply, which invokes diarrhea. Adults who ate yogurt containing S. thermophilus while being treated with antibiotics had lower rates of diarrhea than the control group (12.4% vs. 23.7%).
Streptococcus bacterium causes throat infections and some streptococcus species are even fatal. Though bacteria are mostly beneficial for the human body but if the person is weak and his immune system does not fight against diseases then these beneficial bacteria can also cause infections in the body.
Article Summary: Bacteria is the most useful microorganism in the environment and beneficial for human beings. But it also has some harmful effects on human body.... The planet earth is full of bacteria and they play an important role in the different functions whether they are related to humans, animals or plants. Though bacteria are mostly beneficial for the human body but if the person is weak and his immune system does not fight against diseases then these beneficial bacteria can also cause infections in the body.
Helpful and Harmful Bacteria. A bacteria is a microscopic single celled organism that can only be viewed under a microscope. There are numerous types of bacteria. They can be classified as either helpful or harmful. In addition, they also come in different shapes and sizes. The different shapes include rod, sphere and spiral. Some bacteria depend on oxygen for their survival, these are called aerobic
Good bacteria, also called probiotics, are similar to bacteria that reside naturally in your body. Probiotics may be beneficial to your health, and they are available in yogurt or in various dietary supplements, according to the National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine. 
Pasteurization destroys harmful bacteria, but it also destroys the beneficial organisms such as Streptococcus thermophilus. Consumers can look for the National Yogurt Association’s Live & Active Cultures seal on packaged yogurt. 
Harmless and beneficial bacteria far outnumber harmful varieties. Thousands of bacterial species live commensally in humans, and many provide health benefits to humans, aiding in digestion, for example, or helping to prevent the establishment of colonies of pathogenic bacteria. 
You can contract a streptococcal infection by coming in contact  with an infected person. Streptococcus is a bacterium that can  causes strep throat. This contagious disease … is spread when an  infected person coughs, sneezing or has contact with another  person. 3 people found this useful. Streptococcus is a bacterium which is commonly found in the throat. It can give you strep throat, rheumatic fever, scarlet fever, or tonsillitis. There are two groups, group A … and B. + 7 others
You can contract a streptococcal infection by coming in contact  with an infected person. Streptococcus is a bacterium that can  causes strep throat. This contagious disease … is spread when an  infected person coughs, sneezing or has contact with another  person. 3 people found this useful. Streptococcus is a bacterium which is commonly found in the throat. It can give you strep throat, rheumatic fever, scarlet fever, or tonsillitis. There are two groups, group A … and B. + 7 others found this useful. Nasri Musse. 1  The Five Major Parts of the Brain At its most basic, the brain controls the body.