Have you ever been curious what the average credit score is? We know that the FICO credit score range goes from 300 to 850 with a good credit score being up above 750, but what is the average credit score? Fair Isaac shares a chart that indicates the average FICO credit score is around 700, but we don’t know when chart the was updated (see the chart here).
As of November 2014 (the last time Experian annually updated its Experian’s “State of Credit” data), the national average VantageScore was 666. Remember, Vantage scores run from 300 (worst) to 850 (best). Here’s a list of the metro areas with the best scores, and those with the worst (as of November 2014). Lastly, there is credit score distribution by age. Our friends over at Credit Karma have the best data set available for showing average credit score by age. Although it’s not FICO, they use a credit scoring system which correlates closely – TransUnion’s TransRisk model.
Individuals with no credit history will have a score of -1. If the credit history is less than six months, the score will be 0. CIBIL credit score takes time to build up and usually it takes between 18 and 36 months or more of credit usage to obtain a satisfactory credit score. A credit score is a numerical expression based on a level analysis of a person's credit files, to represent the creditworthiness of the person. A credit score is primarily based on a credit report information typically sourced from credit bureaus.
Ignoring that, seeing that the average TransUnion score was 664 lends credence to the idea that the average is closer to the higher end of the range, than the lower end. The midpoint between 300 and 850 is 575, but the average is much higher than that at 664. Fair Isaac shares a chart that indicates the average FICO credit score is around 700, but we don’t know when chart the was updated (see the chart here).
Good credit score: 680 to 719. A credit report score in the 680-and-up range is good news for you. You can still get decent terms from lenders, although not as nice as those offered to borrowers with truly excellent credit scores. Actually, a score of 600 is a poor credit score. Your credit score directly affects how much money your loans and other types of financing will cost you over your lifetime. Let's take a look at the breakdown of credit scores:
A credit score is a three-digit number, typically between 300 to 850, which credit bureaus calculate based on information in your credit report. The Equifax Credit Score is based on an Equifax Credit Score model and is not the same as scores used by 3rd parties to assess your creditworthiness. 1. Get your Equifax Credit Report and Score for $15.95. Equifax Credit Report and Score retail price is $15.95.
At 600, only 15% of the population have a lower score than yours. 723 is the median FICO score. That is the middle of the distribution, where half of the population is lower and half is higher (that is the only average statistic that Fair Isaac has released to the public). 
California (754), Oregon (750) and Wisconsin (749) led the country with the highest Mortgage Marvel average FICO scores, based on a scale of 300 to 850. It should be noted that neither credit agency's reporting sample is representative of an entire population. Average Credit Scores by State. Credit reporting company Experian compiles averages credit scores for states from a sample of three million credit profiles, with scores range on a scale of 330 to 830. Minnesota's average score of 718 tops Experian's most recent list. The U.S. average is 687, with southern states typically reporting lower scores. Similarly, Mortgage Marvel, a mortgage-shopping website, analyzed more than 330,000 mortgage applications received in 2011 to compute average FICO scores
If you're one of the many who have a credit score below 700, there's no time like the present to begin making changes that could have a major impact on your retirement savings. Rating agencies like Equifax are continuously updating credit scores, and as a result, changes made today can have a positive impact quickly. According to the credit tracking firm Credit Karma, more than 75% of Americans have a credit score below 700. That's not good news given that banks are likely to offer their best terms to borrowers with scores that are above those levels.