The symptoms of this type of food poisoning parallel those caused by Staphylococcus aureus foodborne intoxication. Some strains of B. subtilis and B. licheniformis have been isolated from lamb and chicken incriminated in food poisoning episodes. Nature of Disease: The symptoms of B. cereus diarrheal type food poisoning mimic those of Clostridium perfringens food poisoning. The onset of watery diarrhea, abdominal cramps, and pain occurs 6-15 hours after consumption of contaminated food. Nausea may accompany diarrhea, but vomiting (emesis) rarely occurs.
Bacillus cereus is an endemic, soil-dwelling, Gram-positive, rod-shaped, motile, beta hemolytic bacterium. Some strains are harmful to humans and cause foodborne illness, while other strains can be beneficial as probiotics for animals. The timing of the toxin production was previously thought to be possibly responsible for the two different courses of disease, but in fact the emetic syndrome is caused by a toxin, cereulide, found only in emetic strains and is not part of the standard toolbox of B. cereus.
The diarrhoeal syndrome is caused by enterotoxins that are produced during growth of B. cereus in the small intestine. Two different metabolites or toxins cause these two types. Ot her, non-food borne illnesses can be caused by this pathogen, including respiratory tract and wound infections. The signs of B. cereus emetic type food poisoning include nausea and vomiting. Also, abdominal cramps and/or diarrhea may occur. The incubation period is about 1–5 h. The symptoms of this illness mimic those of Staphylococcus aureus food poisoning. Other observed complications of B. cereus infection include gangrene, septic meningitis, cellulitis, lung abscesses, infant death, endocarditis, and severe systemic and pyogenic
PATHOGENICITY/TOXICITY: B. cereus causes self-limiting (24-48 hours) food-poisoning syndromes (a diarrheal type and an emetic type), opportunistic infections and is associated with clinical infections such as endophthalmitis and other ocular infections. B. cereus can cause wound infections, bacteremia, septicaemia, meningitis, pneumonia, central nervous system infections, endocarditis, pericarditis, respiratory infections, and peripheral infections. Infection in immunocompromised individuals can be life-threatening.
Name of Illness Caused by B. cereus B. cereus food poisoning is the general name used for the illness. However, B. cereus has two recognized types of foodborne illness: diarrheal and emetic. The emetic syndrome is caused by cereulide, a heat-and pH-stable peptide toxin. The signs of B. cereus emetic type food poisoning include nausea and vomiting. Also, abdominal cramps and/or diarrhea may occur. The incubation period is about 1–5 h. The symptoms of this illness mimic those of Staphylococcus aureus food poisoning. Other observed complications of B. cereus infection include gangrene, septic meningitis, cellulitis, lung abscesses, infant death, endocarditis, and severe systemic and pyogenic infections
Although Bacillus cereus is known mainly as an agent of food poisoning, other infections caused by this organism have been documented in immunocompromised patients, including sepsis, meningitis, pneumonia, and wound infections (1,2). Nongastrointestinal infections are usually the result of a breakdown in natural protective barriers such as the skin or immune system (1,2,5). The findings in this report indicate that immunocompetent persons can be vulnerable to cutaneous B. cereus infections when skin is compromised.
The clinical spectrum of infections caused by Bacillus spp. include self limited food poisoning, localized infections related to trauma (e.g. ocular infections), deep seated soft tissue infections, and systemic infections (e.g. meningitis, endocarditis, osteomyelitis, and bacteremia). Fulminant eye infections are widely recognized complications of non anthrax Bacillus infections most commonly B. cereus. The various species implicated in serious infections include B. cereus, B. subtilis, B. sphaericus, B. alvei, B. laterosporus, B. licheniformis, B.megaterium and B. pumilus.
The symptoms of B. cereus diarrheal type food poisoning include abdominal pain, watery diarrhea, rectal tenesmus, moderate nausea that may accompany diarrhea, seldom vomiting and no fever. Symptoms develop within 6-15 hrs and can persist for 24 hrs. The signs of B. cereus emetic type food poisoning include nausea and vomiting. Also, abdominal cramps and/or diarrhea may occur. The incubation period is about 1–5 h. The symptoms of this illness mimic those of Staphylococcus aureus food poisoning. Other observed complications of B. cereus infection include gangrene, septic meningitis, cellulitis, lung abscesses, infant death, endocarditis, and severe systemic and pyogenic infection
Between 1973–1985, B. cereus caused 17.8% of the total bacterial food poisonings in Finland, 11.5% in the Netherlands, 0.8% in Scotland, 0.7% in England and Wales, 2.2% in Canada, 0.7% in Japan, and 15.0% (between 1960–1968) in Hungary. As of 2008, 103 confirmed outbreak cases have been reported in the US. B. cereus can cause wound infections, bacteremia, septicaemia, meningitis, pneumonia, central nervous system infections, endocarditis, pericarditis, respiratory infections, and peripheral infections. Infection in immunocompromised individuals can be life-threatening.