sputum. mucous secretion from the lungs, bronchi, and trachea that is ejected through the mouth, in contrast to saliva, which is the secretion of the salivary glands. Called also expectoration. induced sputum a sputum specimen produced for diagnostic tests by aerosol administration of a hypertonic saline solution.
A sputum culture is done to: 1  Find and identify bacteria or fungi that are causing an infection (such as pneumonia or tuberculosis) of the lungs or the airways leading to the lungs. 2  Identify the best antibiotic to treat the infection (sensitivity testing). 3  Monitor treatment of an infection. A sample of sputum is placed in a container with substances that promote the growth of bacteria or fungi. If no bacteria or fungi grow, the culture is negative. If organisms that can cause infection grow, the culture is positive.
sputum specimen a sample of mucous secretion from the bronchi and lungs. The specimen may be examined microscopically for the presence of malignant cells (cytologic examination) or tested to identify pathogenic bacteria (bacteriologic examination). mucous secretion from the lungs, bronchi, and trachea that is ejected through the mouth, in contrast to saliva, which is the secretion of the salivary glands. Called also expectoration. induced sputum a sputum specimen produced for diagnostic tests by aerosol administration of a hypertonic saline solution.
A sputum culture is a test to detect and identify bacteria or fungi (plural of fungus) that are infecting the lungs or breathing passages. Sputum is a thick fluid produced in the lungs and in the airways leading to the lungs. A sample of sputum is placed in a container with substances that promote the growth of bacteria or fungi. If no bacteria or fungi grow, the culture is negative. If organisms that can cause infection grow, the culture is positive.
sputum specimen. a sample of mucous secretion from the bronchi and lungs. The specimen may be examined microscopically for the presence of malignant cells (cytological examination) or tested to identify pathogenic bacteria (bacteriological examination). mucous secretion from the lungs, bronchi, and trachea that is ejected through the mouth, in contrast to saliva, which is the secretion of the salivary glands. Called also expectoration. induced sputum a sputum specimen produced for diagnostic tests by aerosol administration of a hypertonic saline solution.
Medical Definition of SPUTUM. : matter expectorated from the respiratory system and especially the lungs and bronchi in diseased states that is composed chiefly of mucus but may contain pus, blood, fibrin, or microorganisms (as bacteria). 
Sputum Culture and Analysis. Sputum is the liquid substance that comes from your respiratory tract when you cough. In addition to mucus, sputum contains many materials that are not visible to the naked eye. It often consists of bacteria, cellular fragments, blood, and pus. 
Sputum is a mucus-like material that is found in the lungs, and which can usually be coughed up and spit out. While no specific color key exists to diagnose an illness based on sputum color, if it is anything other than clear or white, a viral or bacterial lung infection or lung inflammation is possible. 
Sputum ['spju.təm] is mucus that is coughed up from the lower airways. This process is known as sputilization. In medicine, sputum samples are usually used for microbiological investigations of respiratory infections and cytological investigations of respiratory systems. The best sputum samples contain very little saliva, as saliva contaminates the sample with oral bacteria. If there is any blood in the sputum, this should also be on the swab. Microbiological sputum samples are usually used to look for infections by Moraxella catarrhalis, Mycobacterium tuberculosis, Streptococcus pneumoniae, and Haemophilus influenzae.
Sputum is the thick mucus or phlegm that is expelled from the lower respiratory tract (bronchi and lungs) through coughing; it is not saliva or spit. Care must be taken in the sample collection process to ensure that the sample is from the lower airways and not from the upper respiratory tract. Sputum samples may be coughed up or induced. Samples that are coughed up are expelled into a sterile cup provided by the laboratory. Deep coughing is generally required, and the person should be informed that it is phlegm/mucus from the lungs that is necessary, not saliva.