Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Heuristic virus detection is a fancy way of a scanner saying, I'm guessing that is a virus. it might be a false positive. leave it where it is and do this on-line scan to double check. if it is in the virus vault/chest/quarantine then restore it. anyway do this on-line scan and see if it finds it too if not then you have your answer. http://www.bitdefender.com/scan8/ie.html ☮. Source(s): . ʌvʌvʌ.
Heuristic analysis is a method employed by many computer antivirus programs designed to detect previously unknown computer viruses, as well as new variants of viruses already in the wild. Heuristic analysis is an expert based analysis that determines the susceptibility of a system towards particular threat/risk using various decision rules or weighing methods. MultiCriteria analysis (MCA) is one of the means of weighing.
A heuristic computer virus is a virus/program that is capable of learning while running in parallel with other computer systems on a system which it is on. For example having … really good anti virus detection software running along with say five or six different other programme's virus can learn passwords usernames. Normally, for an anti-virus product to detect the virus the virus must have been seen before, analysed and detection added to the signature update files. Heuristics are used as there are some families of viruses that continually change their appearance and it is not possible to detect every variant.
Itknowledge24.com. BTW-there is no such thing as a ' Heuristic virus'. Heuristics is a method that AV programs use to try to catch malware by recognizing suspicious behavior by a program that is not a known malicious item. It is not fully reliable and may sometimes erroneously delete or quarantine a legitimate file and cause problems
There is currently only one way to get rid of a heuristic computer virus.And it is by purging everything that you have on your computer and i mean everything.But make sure you have back ups of all your computer data before doing so or before you happened to get the virus. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. A heuristic computer virus is a virus/program that is capable of learning while running in parallel with other computer systems on a system which it is on. For example having really good anti virus detection software running along with say five or six different other programme's virus can learn passwords username
Heuristic analyzer (or simply, a heuristic) is a technology of virus detection, which cannot be detected by Anti-virus databases. It allows detecting objects, which are suspected of being infected by unknown or new modification of known viruses. 
What is the Heuristic Virus? So I downloaded this program, and when I downloaded it Norton said that it was suspicious, something like suspisious.Cloud.5 or something. 
Heuristic, also known as Heur.Invader, is a computer virus designed to change your system security settings. Once the Heuristic virus has done this, it takes advantage of your vulnerable computer to download additional viruses and gather personal information. In addition, Heuristic may disable your anti-virus program. You have an alternative way to remove Heuristic. Manual removal is an option even if you do not have access to your anti-virus program or the Internet. Note that the manual removal steps described in this article apply to Windows Vista and Windows 7
Heuristic Virus Definition. Antivirus programs employ heuristic analysis in order to find previously unknown computer viruses or to detect new variants of known viruses. 