any part of a cow,the name corned beef,gets its name from small salt-packets that are used to preserve the meat called corns,hence corned beef. exists and is an alternate of. Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Many diffrent parts of the cow actually. Mostly, it comes from when steak or another specific beef product is being trimmed, they ground up the trimmings.
Older cows that are butchered are also used as that meat is tougher and not good for tender steaks or roasts and makes better stewing meat or ground beef where the toughness isn't an issue. Some higher grade ground beef is ground from the choicer cuts of meat and is labeled ground round. ckngbbbls · 6 years ago. Ground round-back of cow, lots of muscle Ground Chuck-shoulder, neck, also muscular Ground Sirloin-from loin, tender.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: If it is labeled Ground Beef it can be made from any part of the cow (except organs) and can be as much as 30% fat, but the fat must be from the same meat that is ground. In other words, fat cannot be added from other parts of the cow. If it is labeled Hamburger, fat can be added (along with water, seasonings etc.) but it still cannot exceed 30%. If it labeled Ground Chuck, Ground Round, Ground Sirloin etc, it must be ground from that cut of beef only. 
0 Votes. Ground beef most often consists of muscle, and is therefore cut from the less tender areas of the cow. Ehow.com lists ground beef as most often cut from the flank, or the stomach area, of the cow. Flank steak, cubed steak, and stew meat are also cut from the same area. Ground beef needs to be ground in order to help tenderize and flavor the meat, because it is such a tough cut. Variations in packaging are due to the amount of fat in the ground beef, not what part of the cow it is from or other differences. Reply. Click here to cancel reply. Ground beef is usually any cut, just ground up. It typically comes from older or leaner cows and bulls, because it is tougher. It consists of trimmings from all over the cow, so it can really be from anywhere. See below for more details.
There are rumors that corned beef comes from -- let's put this delicately -- the lady parts of a cow. These are untrue. Corned beef is a muscle meat, not an organ meat, and anybody who tells you otherwise is just trying to gross you out. 
Ground beef, beef mince, minced meat, hamburger (in the United States) is a ground meat made of beef, finely chopped by a meat grinder. It is used in many recipes including hamburgers and cottage pie. In some parts of the world, a meat grinder is called a mincer. For example, in the United States, beef fat may be added to hamburger, but not to ground beef if the meat is ground and packaged at a USDA-inspected plant. For example in the USA, a maximum of 30% fat by weight is allowed in either hamburger or ground beef.
Beef is the culinary name for meat from bovines, especially cattle. Beef can be harvested from bulls, heifers or steers. Its acceptability as a food source varies in different parts of the world. Beef muscle meat can be cut into roasts, short ribs or steak (filet mignon, sirloin steak, rump steak, rib steak, rib eye steak, hanger steak, etc.). 
Best Answer: Ground beef is any part of the cow. Ground round-back of cow, lots of muscle Ground Chuck-shoulder, neck, also muscular Ground Sirloin-from loin, tender. Source(s): yanchagurl · 6 years ago