Healthgrades Editorial Staff. Peripheral vascular disease is a condition in which the blood vessels in the lower extremities (feet, legs, or thighs) are narrowed, restricting blood flow. 
Peripheral vascular diseases (PVDs) are circulation disorders that affect blood vessels outside of the heart and brain. PVD typically strikes the veins and arteries that supply the arms, legs, and organs located below your stomach. These are the blood vessels that are distant from the heart. They are known as peripheral vessels. In PVD, blood vessels are narrowed. Narrowing is usually caused by arteriosclerosis. Arteriosclerosis is a condition where plaque builds up inside a vessel. It is also called “hardening of the arteries.” Plaque decreases the amount of blood and oxygen supplied to the arms and legs
Peripheral Arterial Disease (PAD). Peripheral arterial disease is a disease in which plaque builds up in the arteries that carry blood to your head, organs, and limbs. Plaque is made up of fat, cholesterol, calcium, fibrous tissue, and other substances in the blood. Peripheral arterial disease (P.A.D.) is a disease in which plaque (plak)
(Redirected from Peripheral arterial disease). Peripheral artery disease (PAD), also known as peripheral vascular disease (PVD), peripheral artery occlusive disease, and peripheral obliterative arteriopathy, is a narrowing of the arteries other than those that supply the heart or the brain. 
Causes of Peripheral Vascular Disease. The most common cause of PVD is peripheral artery disease, which is due to atherosclerosis. Fatty material builds up inside the arteries and mixes with calcium, scar tissue, and other substances. The mixture hardens slightly, forming plaques. These plaques block, narrow, or weaken the artery walls. It is, though, often used as a synonym for peripheral artery disease. PVD is the most common disease of the arteries. The build-up of fatty material inside the vessels, a condition called atherosclerosis or hardening of the arteries, is what causes it.
1 Peripheral artery disease is due to atherosclerosis. 2  This is a gradual process in which a fatty material builds up inside the arteries. 3  The fatty material mixes with calcium, scar tissues, and other substances and hardens slightly, forming plaques of arteriosclerosis. Other causes of peripheral vascular disease include the following: 1  Blood clot: A blood clot can block a blood vessel (thrombus/ emboli). 2  Diabetes: Over the long term, the high blood sugar level of persons with diabetes can damage blood vessels. 3  This makes the blood vessels more likely to become narrowed or weakened.
Peripheral arterial disease (PAD) is narrowing or blockage of arteries that causes poor blood flow to your arms and legs. When you walk or exercise, your leg muscles don't get enough blood and you can get painful cramps. Peripheral arterial disease is also called peripheral vascular disease. 
SHARE IT. a a a. Peripheral vascular disease, also known as peripheral arterial disease, or PVD, is a condition of the blood vessels that leads to narrowing and hardening of the arteries that supply the legs and feet. Because it decreases blood flow, PVD can injure nerves and other tissues. Causes & Risk Factors. PVD is caused by a condition known as atherosclerosis, in which fatty material collects along the walls of arteries. Over time, the fatty material thickens, hardens and forms calcium deposits, eventually blocking the arteries.
Peripheral Vascular Disease Overview. Peripheral vascular disease, also called PVD, refers to any disease or disorder of the circulatory system outside of the brain and heart. The term can include any disorder that affects any blood vessels. It is, though, often used as a synonym for peripheral artery disease. PVD is the most common disease of the arteries. The build-up of fatty material inside the vessels, a condition called atherosclerosis or hardening of the arteries, is what causes it.