Report Abuse. I find that Disaronno has the smell and the taste of cherries in syrup, the kind that you get in a jar to put on a Sundae. Of course there is the kick at the end from the alcohol but over all it's delicious. 
We prefer to add a little vodka to take the edge off the cr me de cacao's bitterness, but if you want a stronger chocolate taste, you can omit the vodka and use a full 1/2 cup of liqueur. 3 oz. package cherry Jell-O 8 oz. (1 cup) boiling water 3 oz. cr me de cacao 1 oz. 
[ Photograph: Jackson Stakeman ]. The first time I tried cherry liqueur, I thought it tasted like cough syrup. For years, I avoided anything made with the stuff because I don't want my cocktails to remind me of sick children. Then one day I ordered a Singapore Sling without really knowing what was in it. Add it to some cola for a delicious and slightly alcoholic version of Cherry Coke, or use it to add depth to a sangria. With a little tasting and adjusting, you can use homemade cherry liqueur in recipes that call for Cherry Heering or cherry brandy.
Much like homemade grenadine, I had never considered the possibility of homemade maraschino cherries. Bartender Ted Kilgore explained that homemade maraschino cherries are made with maraschino liqueur. After trying one, I knew they would one day homemade maraschino cherries would be making an appearance in my kitchen. 1 In a saucepan, combine all ingredients except the cherries and liqueur and bring to a rolling boil. 2  When the liquid begins to boil, reduce the heat to medium. 3  Add the cherries and simmer for 5–7 minutes. 4  Remove from heat, add the liqueur, and let cool.
The cherries are fermented complete (that is, including their stones). Unlike cherry liqueurs and so-called “cherry brandies”, kirschwasser is not sweet. The best kirschwassers have a refined taste with subtle flavors of cherry and a slight bitter-almond taste that derives from the stones. [ˈkɪɐ̯ʃvasɐ] , German for “cherry water”) or kirsch is a clear, colorless fruit brandy traditionally made from double distillation of morello cherries, a dark-colored cultivar of the sour cherry.
Maraschino (/ˌmaerəˈskiːnoʊ/ ˌmærəˈskiːnoʊ-marr-ə-skee) noh is a liqueur originally from the city Of/ Zara zadar In, croatia obtained from the distillation Of marasca. cherries 
Cherry Heering is my favorite cherry liqueur, and it's not hard to find for about $25 or $30 a bottle. It's made with real cherries and it actually tastes like cherries. There are also more affordable options from Bols and Hiram Walker, but now that I make my own, I haven't been tempted. Add it to some cola for a delicious and slightly alcoholic version of Cherry Coke, or use it to add depth to a sangria. With a little tasting and adjusting, you can use homemade cherry liqueur in recipes that call for Cherry Heering or cherry brandy.
Their gift of cherries soaked in Luxardo (a sweet cherry liqueur made from Marasca cherries and ground up cherry pits) blew my mind. The cherry-infused cherry liquor became a favorite featured cocktail ingredient and the center point of an obsession with the classic cocktail, the Aviation (Gin, Luxardo, and Lemon). Health benefits aside, cherries are a great flavoring agent in many cocktails (think Maraschino Liqueur, Amarena soaked cherries, etc.). Last year, my wonderful friends Todd and Diane from White on Rice introduced me to the idea of using cherries to enhance the flavors of a favorite liquor.
A kirschwasser (/ˈkɪərʃvɑːsər/ KEERSH-vahs-ər; [ˈkɪɐ̯ʃvasɐ] , German for “cherry water”) or kirsch is a clear, colorless fruit brandy traditionally made from double distillation of morello cherries, a dark-colored cultivar of the sour cherry. However, it is now also made from other kinds of cherries.
Maraschino liqueur. Maraschino is a clear, relatively dry liqueur made from Marasca cherries, including the crushed pits which give it a subtle bitter almond flavor. The cherries are processed and distilled much like brandy, and later combined with a pure cane syrup before it is aged and filtered. 