11. For hundreds of years the people of Spain have celebrated a religious holiday with music, dancing and the running of the bulls. The Festival of San Fermin-known as the Pamplona Bull Running-takes place every year from July 6th to 14th. 
For the band, see San Fermin (band) . The festival of San Fermin fermín in the city Of (Pamplona, Navarre) spain is a deeply rooted celebration held annually from:12, 00 6, july when the opening of the party is marked by setting off the pyrotechnic, chupinazo to midnight 14, july with the singing of The pobre De. mi mí 
Pamplona-The Bull Run. The Pamplona festival – also known as the San Fermin Festival or Sanfermines– is held in Pamplona, Spain every year from July 6-14. The most famous part of the festival is the bull run or encierro when 15 bulls charge through the streets of the old city. Although the festival begins on July 6, the bulls do not run until July 7 and then run for 7 consecutive mornings.
The most famous running of the bulls takes place during the Fiesta de San Fermin fermín In, Pamplona, spain which begins at noon on 6 july and ends at midnight on the. 14th The … feri a Del, toro the festival of the bull begins on the morning of the 7th and ends on the morning of the, 14th thus eight days of the. encierro The most notable event is during the Festival of San Fermin fermín In, Pamplona, spain From … july 7 To july 14 each. Year the original purpose of this event was the transport of the bulls from their corrals to the ring where bullfights would be. held
The most famous running of the bulls is that of the eight-day festival of Sanfermines in honour of Saint Fermin in Pamplona, although they are also traditionally held in other places such as towns and villages across Spain, Portugal, in some cities in Mexico, and southern France during the summer. The Running of the Bulls (in Spanish: encierro, from the verb encerrar, to corral, to enclose) is a practice that involves running in front of a small group of cattle, typically six, of the toro bravo breed that have been let loose on a course of a sectioned-off subset of a town's streets.
1 Each day of the festival is the same. 2  8am-the running of the bulls takes place. 3  See Pictures from the Pamplona Running of the Bulls. 4  6.30pm-bullfighting in the city's bullring, with the bulls that ran that morning. The Pamplona Running of the Bulls is a part of the San Fermin Festival, which runs in Pamplona from July 6 to July 14 in 2015 and every year. If you can't make it at this time of year, there are other Bull Runs in Spain. See also:
Today, the festival is one of the most famous Spanish festivals, partly thanks to Ernest Hemingway, who documented his San Fermin experience in his book, ‘The Sun Also Rises ‘. Ernest Hemingway was a fan of bullfights and the running of the bulls, impressed by the spectacle during his first visit in 1923. History of San Fermin. San Fermin is a traditional Spanish festival that has been celebrated since the 14th century. Held in honor of Saint Fermin, the co-patron of Navarres, the region in which Pamplona is located, the festival started out as a medieval events.
Running of the Bulls | San Fermin | San Fermin Pamplona Spain. The fiestas of San Fermin are celebrated in Irunea/Pamplona, in the region of Navarra, every year from the 6th to the 14th of July. They have become internationally known because of the running of the bulls, where the bulls are lead through the streets of the old quarter as far as the bull ring by runners. Chants to San Fermin. The bull run has a particularly emotional prelude. It is when the runners, just a few metres up the slope from the corral where the bulls are waiting, raise their rolled newspapers and chant to an image of San Fermin placed in a small recess in the wall in the Cuesta de Santo Domingo.