The Northern Lights, as the name suggests, are especially related to the polar regions. They occur most frequently in a belt of radius 2500 km centered on the magnetic north pole. This so-called auroral zone extends over northern Scandinavia, Island, the southern tip of Greenland and continuing over northern Canada, Alaska and along the northern coast of Siberia. We associate the Northern Lights with wintertime, although in reality they are present the year round; it's just that we can't see them when the nights are light as the background sky has to be fairly dark.
­The aurora borealis (the Northern Lights) and the aurora australis (the Southern Lights) have always fascinated mankind, and people even travel thousands of miles just to see the brilliant light shows in the earth's atmosphere. The color of the aurora depends on which atom is struck, and the altitude of the meeting. 1  Green-oxygen, up to 150 miles in altitude. 2  Red-oxygen, above 150 miles in altitude. 3  Blue-nitrogen, up to 6
The Aurora Borealis (northern lights) are not predictable events-they can occur every night during the winter months but generally occur less often. It all depends on the intensity and velocity of the solar wind and the sun's magnetic activity. poldi · 8 years ago. RE: how often do the northern lights occur? like once a month, once a week, every night? Source(s): northern lights occur: https://trimurl.im/b29/how-often-do-the-...
The lights are seen above the magnetic poles of the northern and southern hemispheres. They are known as 'Aurora borealis' in the north and 'Aurora australis' in the south.. The lights are known as 'Aurora borealis' in the north and 'Aurora australis' in the south. Scientists have learned that in most instances northern and southern auroras are mirror-like images that occur at the same time, with similar shapes and colors.
Northern lights is the name of a light phenomenon (aurora borealis) often seen in northern regions. The lights have been around since Earth formed an atmosphere, the dinosau … rs saw it, early humans saw it and our descendants will see it. 1 The Northern Lights, or Aurora Borealis, are colorful bands of light that appear in the sky. 2  This mystical view is a result of solar winds that blow solar particles into the 3  …. Images of the Northern Lights of Alaska Few sights are as beautiful as the Northern Lights.
The Northern Lights occur year round but are only visible when nights are dark. In the locations in which they are best seen, Alaska, Canada, Norway and Finland, they are usually seen from September through April when the nights are long and dark. 1 The Northern Lights, or Aurora Borealis, are colorful bands of light that appear in the sky. 2  This mystical view is a result of solar winds that blow solar particles into the 3  …. Images of the Northern Lights of Alaska Few sights are as beautiful as the Northern Lights.
There are times, though, when the lights are farther south, usually when there are a lot of sunspots. Sunspot activity follows an 11-year cycle. The next peak will occur in 2011 and 2012, so opportunities to see auroras outside their normal range should be good. The color of the aurora depends on which atom is struck, and the altitude of the meeting. 1  Green-oxygen, up to 150 miles in altitude. 2  Red-oxygen, above 150 miles in altitude. 3  Blue-nitrogen, up to 6
The auroras, both surrounding the north magnetic pole (aurora borealis) and south magnetic pole (aurora australis) occur when highly charged electrons from the solar wind interact with elements in the earth's atmosphere. Solar winds stream away from the sun at speeds of about 1 million miles per hour. The color of the aurora depends on which atom is struck, and the altitude of the meeting. 1  Green-oxygen, up to 150 miles in altitude. 2  Red-oxygen, above 150 miles in altitude. 3  Blue-nitrogen, up to 6
The name Northern Lights was first chronicled in the original Old Norse, as “norðrljos”, norðrljós in; 1230 while the Name Aurora (“Borealis dawn of The”) north is jointly credited to have first been used By Galileo galilei And Petrus gassendus in the 17th. century The Northern Lights occur high above the surface of the earth where the atmosphere has become extremely thin, at an altitude of 100-250 km. They are created by electrically charged particles that make the thin air shine, not unlike a fluorescent light.