Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) is the biochemical way to store and use energy. F or your muscles -- in fact, for every cell in your body -- the source of energy that keeps everything going is called ATP. Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) is the biochemical way to store and use energy. 1 Chemically, ATP is an adenine nucleotide bound to three phosphates. 2  There is a lot of energy stored in the bond between the second and third phosphate groups that can be used to fuel chemical reactions. 3  When a cell needs energy, it breaks this bond to form adenosine diphosphate (ADP) and a free phosphate molecule.
ATP (Adenosine triphosphate). 1  It is the major energy currency of the cell, providing the energy for most of the energy-consuming activities of the cell. 2  It is one of the monomers used in the synthesis of RNA and, after conversion to deoxyATP (dATP), DNA. 3  It regulates many biochemical pathways. 
Best Answer: Adenosine-5'-triphosphate (ATP) is a multifunctional nucleotide used in cells as a coenzyme. It is often called the molecular unit of currency of intracellular energy transfer.[1] ATP transports chemical energy within cells for metabolism. · just now. Report Abuse. produced in the cristae of mitochondria, ATP is the energy source of our cells without ATP, life as we know it would cease to exist because WE would cease to exist
First, we need to know what ATP really is-chemically, it is known as adenosine triphosphate. ATP is a usable form of energy for cells-the energy is trapped in a chemical bond that can be released and used to drive other reactions that require energy (endergonic reactions). 
Conversion from ATP to ADP. Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) is the energy currency of life and it provides that energy for most biological processes by being converted to ADP (adenosine diphosphate). Since the basic reaction involves a water molecule, this reaction is commonly referred to as the hydrolysis of ATP. Adenosine Triphosphate. Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) is considered by biologists to be the energy currency of life. It is the high-energy molecule that stores the energy we need to do just about everything we do.
1 When the cell has excess energy, it stores this energy by forming ATP from ADP and phosphate. 2  ATP is required for the biochemical reactions involved in any muscle contraction. 3  As the work of the muscle increases, more and more ATP gets consumed and must be replaced in order for the muscle to keep moving. 1 Chemically, ATP is an adenine nucleotide bound to three phosphates. 2  There is a lot of energy stored in the bond between the second and third phosphate groups that can be used to fuel chemical reactions. 3  When a cell needs energy, it breaks this bond to form adenosine diphosphate (ADP) and a free phosphate molecule.
Free Energy from Hydrolysis of ATP. Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) is the energy currency of life and it provides that energy for most biological processes by being converted to ADP (adenosine diphosphate). Since the basic reaction involves a water molecule, this reaction is commonly referred to as the hydrolysis of ATP. Adenosine Triphosphate. Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) is considered by biologists to be the energy currency of life. It is the high-energy molecule that stores the energy we need to do just about everything we do.
ATP transports chemical energy within cells for metabolism. It is one of the end products of photophosphorylation, cellular respiration, and fermentation and used by enzymes and structural proteins in many cellular processes, including biosynthetic reactions, motility, and cell division. ATP is consumed in the cell by energy-requiring (endergonic) processes and can be generated by energy-releasing (exergonic) processes. In this way ATP transfers energy between spatially separate metabolic reactions. ATP is the main energy source for the majority of cellular functions.
Mitochondrion structure. Mitochondria are the energy factories of the cells. The energy currency for the work that animals must do is the energy-rich molecule adenosine triphosphate (ATP). The ATP is produced in the mitochondria using energy stored in food. Just as the chloroplasts in plants act as sugar factories for the supply of ordered molecules to the plant, the mitochondria in animals and plants act to produce the ordered ATP molecules as the energy supply for the processes of life. This ATP production by the mitochondria is done by the process of respiration, which in essence is the use of oxygen in a process which generates energy. This is a very efficient process for using food energy to make ATP.