Cell structure and metabolism. Staphylococcus aureus is a gram-positive bacteria, which means that the cell wall of this bacteria consists of a very thick peptidoglycan layer. They form spherical colonies in clusters in 2 planes and have no flagella. MRSA (Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus aureus), which is resistant to the antibiotic methicillin, expresses a modified penicillin-binding protein encoded by mecA gene. This was brought about by many evolutions thought horizontal gene transfer of mecA to a wide variety of methicillin susceptible S. aureus strains.
2 The subspecies name Staphylococcus carnosus subsp. carnosus Schleifer and Fischer 1982 is automatically created by the valid publication of Staphylococcus carnosus subsp. utilis Probst et al. 1998 [Rule 40d (formerly Rule 46)]. 2 The subspecies Staphylococcus capitis subsp. capitis (Kloos and Schleifer 1975) Bannerman and Kloos 1991 is automatically created by the valid publication of Staphylococcus capitis subsp. urealyticus corrig. Bannerman and Kloos 1991 [Rule 40d (formerly Rule 46)].
2 The subspecies name Staphylococcus hominis subsp. hominis (Kloos and Schleifer 1975) Kloos et al. 1998 is automatically created by the valid publication of Staphylococcus hominis subsp. novobiosepticus Kloos et al. 1998 [Rule 40d (formerly Rule 46)]. 2 The subspecies Staphylococcus capitis subsp. capitis (Kloos and Schleifer 1975) Bannerman and Kloos 1991 is automatically created by the valid publication of Staphylococcus capitis subsp. urealyticus corrig. Bannerman and Kloos 1991 [Rule 40d (formerly Rule 46)].
The genus Staphylococcus containsaboutabout forty forty species and subspeciestoday Only some of them are important as human pathogens: – Staphylococcus aureus – Staphylococcus epidermidis – Staphylococcus hominis – Staphylococcus haemolyticus – Staphylococcus saprophyticus – others. – Staphylococcus epidermidis, – Staphylococcus hominis, Subgroup ofof coagulase coagulase--negative negative species species contains contains from humanstaphylococcistaphylococci: – Staphylococcus haemolyticus, – Staphylococcus saprophyticus, – Staphylococcus simulans, – Staphylococcus warneri and other.
3 The subspecies name Staphylococcus aureus subsp. aureus (Rosenbach 1884) De La Fuente et al. 1985 is automatically created by the valid publication of Staphylococcus aureus subsp. anaerobius De La Fuente et al. 1985 [Rule 40d (formerly Rule 46)]. 2 The subspecies Staphylococcus capitis subsp. capitis (Kloos and Schleifer 1975) Bannerman and Kloos 1991 is automatically created by the valid publication of Staphylococcus capitis subsp. urealyticus corrig. Bannerman and Kloos 1991 [Rule 40d (formerly Rule 46)].
Colonies formed by S. aureus are yellow (thus the name aureus, Latin for gold) and grow large on a rich medium. Staphylococcus aureus and their genus Staphylococci are facultative anaerobes which means they grow by aerobic respiration or fermentation that produces lactic acid. MRSA (Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus aureus), which is resistant to the antibiotic methicillin, expresses a modified penicillin-binding protein encoded by mecA gene. This was brought about by many evolutions thought horizontal gene transfer of mecA to a wide variety of methicillin susceptible S. aureus strains.
Assignment of a strain to the genus Staphylococcus requires it to be a Gram-positive coccus that forms clusters, produces catalase, has an appropriate cell wall structure (including peptidoglycan type and teichoic acid presence) and G + C content of DNA in a range of 30–40 mol%. The taxonomy is based on 16s rRNA sequences, and most of the staphylococcal species fall into 11 clusters: 1  S. aureus group – S. aureus, S. simiae.
As with all generic names in binomial nomenclature, Staphylococcus is capitalized when used alone or with a specific species. Also, the abbreviations Staph and S. when used with a species (S. aureus) are correctly italicized and capitalized (though often errors in this are seen in popular literature). The taxonomy is based on 16s rRNA sequences, and most of the staphylococcal species fall into 11 clusters: 1  S. aureus group – S. aureus, S. simiae.
1 The genus Staphylococcus contains about forty species and subspecies today.• Only some of them are important as human pathogens: –Staphylococcus aureus –Staphylococcus epidermidis –Staphylococcus hominis –Staphylococcus haemolyticus –Staphylococcus saprophyticus –others Dr.T.V.Rao MD 7. 2  8. 1 Subgroup of coagulase-negative species contains from human staphylococci: – Staphylococcus epidermidis, – Staphylococcus hominis, – Staphylococcus haemolyticus, – Staphylococcus saprophyticus, – Staphylococcus simulans, – Staphylococcus warneri and other. 2  Dr.T.V.Rao MD 41.
They are also important pathogens. Some of the most common diseases caused by Staphylococcus species include: impetigo, toxic shock syndrome, bacteremia, endocarditis, folliculitis furuncle (boils), and osteomyelitis (bone abscesses). 