As you know, recipients can't tell who you included in the BCC field, or even if you used the BCC field at all. But that doesn't mean you can't. To see who you BCC'd in a previous email, just open the Sent mail folder and open the message. You'll see the BCC field preserved for future reference. Never violate the trust. Being included in the BCC field of an email is a sacred trust.
First, let's review how the BCC works. In case you're new to this -- or you've never Googled it -- the BCC sends a secret copy of an email to a recipient. The BCC recipient can see the recipients in the To and CC (carbon copy) fields, but those recipients cannot see who received a blind copy. 
Answers. Best Answer: The purpose of the bcc is to be able to send an e-mail so that no one else can see that they received it. If there was a way to see who was on the bcc it would defeat the whole purpose of having it. There is no simple way that you can see who was bcced on an e-mail. However, a network administrator could check the logs and recover that information. 
To find out who you Bcc:ed on a message in Windows Live Mail, Windows Mail or Outlook Express 1  : ›› Step by Step Screenshot Walkthrough. 2  Go to Sent Items (or whichever folder contains the message). 3  Click on the sent message with the right mouse button. 4  Select Properties from the menu that comes up. 5  Go to the Details tab. 
Bcc also lets you send a copy of the email to one or more contacts -- but without any of the other recipients (those addressed in the To and Cc fields) knowing about it. In other words, those folks stay blind to the recipient(s) in the Bcc field. 
Heinz Tschabitscher. Using the Bcc field you can send a copy of a message with the recipient's email address hidden from all other recipients. The Bcc field works just like the To and Cc fields in Outlook
Meredith. In Outlook Express: If you are the sender of the email with BCC recipients you are the only one able to see that list by: Right clicking onto the email in the Sent folder, select Properties. Click on the Details tab and the list of BCC’d recipients will be shown to you. Reply. Luke. Fact is, if you save an email that contains BCC addresses from something like outlook to your desktop, and then open it in a text editor, you can easily just get the BCC email addresses out of this object as it contains all the BCC emails as plain text… Completely discredits your ‘cannot see them’ theory.
D E E P. 1/1/13 4:45 AM. hey there ! YES! you can know if the email uses BCC or not in both cases ,if the email is sent to you directly (to) or if it is a bcc copy to you. When you open the email Click the small down arrow button below the sender's name and you can see the following info: 
1 You can also include yourself in the Bcc: field to get a copy of the email sent to yourself. 2  Place all blind recipients into the Bcc: field. 3  Nobody will see the other recipients, which is great way to maintain privacy for everybody when sending to a public list. 1 Click the tiny Address Book icon just left of the address format you want to use, either To:, Cc: and Bcc:. 2  When the address book opens double click each name and it will pop into the box you selected. 3  TO: is used to address an email directly to someone. 4  CC: is used to carbon copy (include) someone else on the email.