A noun phrase is any word or group of words based  on a noun or pronoun (without a verb) that can function in a  sentence as a subject, object of a verb or a preposition. A noun  phrase can be one word or many words. Examples:    She is nice. A verb is a word that expresses the action, occurrence, or a state  of being of the subject of a sentence or a clause.    A noun is a word for a person, a place, or a … thing. A noun  functions as the subject of a sentence or a clause, and the object 
In phrase structure grammars such as generative grammar, the verb phrase is one headed by a verb. It may be composed of only a single verb, but typically it consists of combinations of main and auxiliary verbs, plus optional specifiers, complements (not including subject complements), and adjuncts. Thus in the sentence A fat man put the jewels quickly in the box, the words put the jewels quickly in the box is a verb phrase; it consists of the verb put and its dependents, but not the subject a fat man. A verb phrase is similar to what is considered a predicate in more traditional grammars. Verb phrases generally are divided among two types: finite, of which the head of the phrase is a finite verb; and nonfinite, where the head is a nonfinite verb, such as an infinitive, participle or gerund
A noun phrase or nominal phrase (abbreviated NP) is a phrase which has a noun (or indefinite pronoun) as its head word, or which performs the same grammatical function as such a phrase. Noun phrases often function as verb subjects and objects, as predicative expressions, and as the complements of prepositions. Noun phrases can be embedded inside each other; for instance, the noun phrase some of his constituents contains the shorter noun phrase his constituents.
In linguistics, a verb phrase or VP is a syntactic unit composed of at least one verb and its dependents— objects, complements and other modifiers—but not always including the subject. Thus in the sentence A fat man put the jewels quickly in the box, the words put the jewels quickly in the box is a verb phrase; it consists of the verb put and its dependents, but not the subject a fat man. A verb phrase is similar to what is considered a predicate in more traditional grammars. Verb phrases generally are divided among two types: finite, of which the head of the phrase is a finite verb; and nonfinite, where the head is a nonfinite verb, such as an infinitive, participle or gerund
Noun Phrases. A noun phrase is made up of a noun and all its modifiers. It can function in a sentence as a subject, an object, or a complement. Some noun phrases begin with an infinitive (to go) or a gerund (going); this type of noun phrase is always singular: To sail the seven seas was her lifelong dream. A verb phrase consists of a main verb plus one or more helping verbs, its complements, objects, or other modifiers, and functions syntactically as a verb. Some common helping verbs are: 1  to be (am, is, are, was, were, be, being, been). 2  to have (has, have, had). 3  to do (do, does, did).
Gerund Phrases. Gerund Phrases contain verbs ending in-ing and any modifiers, objects, or complements. Gerund phrases act as nouns in a sentence. They can act as the subject or object of a verb, as a predicate nominative, and as the object of a preposition. Examples: 1  Waiting for his grades drove him crazy. 
A noun phrase is any word or group of words based on a noun or pronoun (without a verb) that can function in a sentence as a subject, object of a verb or a prepositional. A no … un phrase can be one word or many words. Examples: She is nice.The board meeting is at two.I brought some of my mother's homemade cookies. A verb is a word that expresses the action, occurrence, or a state  of being of the subject of a sentence or a clause.    A noun is a word for a person, a place, or a … thing. A noun  functions as the subject of a sentence or a clause, and the object  of a verb or a preposition.