From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. In law, a summary judgment (also judgment as a matter of law) is a judgment entered by a court for one party and against another party summarily, i.e. , without a full trial. Such a judgment may be issued on the merits of an entire case, or on discrete issues in that case
summary judgment. n. a court order ruling that no factual issues remain to be tried and therefore a cause of action or all causes of action in a complaint can be decided upon certain facts without trial. The moving party has the initial burden to show that summary judgment is proper even if the moving party would not have the Burden of Proof at trial. The court generally examines the evidence presented with the motion in the light most favorable to the opposing party.
Summary Judgment. In civil actions in federal court, either party may make a pre-trial motion for summary judgment. To succeed in a motion for summary judgment, a movant must show 1) that there are no disputed material issues of fact, and 2) that the movant is entitled to judgment as a matter of law. When considering motions for summary judgment, judges view all evidence in the light most favorable to the movant's opponent. 
Procedure. 24.4. (1) A claimant may not apply for summary judgment until the defendant against whom the application is made has filed –. (a) an acknowledgement of service; or. (b) a defence, unless –. (i) the court gives permission; or. (ii) a practice direction provides otherwise. 
What is a Summary Judgment Motion and how can it affect the outcome of my case? Join me as I explain the basics of Summary Judgment. 1  People & Blogs. 2  Standard YouTube License. 
Summary Judgment Law & Legal Definition. A summary judgment is a decision made on the basis of statements and evidence presented in the legal pleadings and documents filed, without a trial. It is used when there is no dispute as to the facts of the case, and one party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law. 
Burdens of Production and Proof. The party making the summary judgment motion has the initial burden of showing the absence of a disputed material fact. If this is shown, the burden of proof shifts to the opposing party to show specific facts that present a genuine issue for trial. Summary Judgment Standard. In deciding a summary judgment motion, the court, or judge, reviews the pleadings, any depositions, any answers to interrogatories, any admissions on file, and any affidavits.
1. Have summary judgment in mind from the outset of the case and throughout the case. It is often said that from the moment that an attorney begins to prepare a complaint or an answer, he or she should also begin to prepare a closing argument to deliver at trial. 
Practical points. To avoid allocation of a case prior to a summary judgment hearing (except in the Commercial or Technology and Construction Court where allocation to the multi-track is automatic), lodge the application before completing the directions questionnaire. 