WEINSTOCK Genealogy. This is an open forum to discuss the origin, the meaning and the family stories of the surname WEINSTOCK. Both your knowledge and the oral tradition of the origin and meaning of this surname will be helpfull. Using the Daitch-Mokotoff Soundex Code we can obtain some variants of scripture of the same surname. Below you will find the variants of scripture we have in our database. They will be useful to find and to determine the WEINSTOCK meaning. We invite you to post your knowledge and familiar tradition about your surnames. JUST DO IT at the end of the following posts. You can also try to find relatives posting here information about your relatives you are searching for.
More. Our PDF Coat of Arms + Extended History product is the whole package all in one. With a full color Coat of Arms along with a very detailed History, full symbolism, bibliography and settlers listed by the centuries. More about the Weinstock Family Crest... The Weinstock Family Crest was acquired from the Houseofnames.com archives. The Weinstock Family Crest was drawn according to heraldic standards based on published blazons. We generally include the oldest published family crest once associated with each surname. This page was last modified on 30 June 2013 at 09:42.
You can find out where the majority of the Weinstock families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. from the New York Passenger Lists. Click on a circle in the chart to view Weinstock birth and death records. An unusually short lifespan might indicate that your ancestors lived in harsh conditions. A short lifespan might also indicate health problems that were once prevalent in your family.
The information for this chart came from the U.S. Immigration Collection at Ancestry. You can find out where the majority of the Weinstock families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. from the Canadian Passenger Lists.
Weinstock Early Origins. First found in Austria, where the family made a considerable contribution to the feudal society which shaped modern Europe. The family branched into several houses, all of which played an important role in the local political conflicts which forged the nation. The Weinstock Family Crest was acquired from the Houseofnames.com archives. The Weinstock Family Crest was drawn according to heraldic standards based on published blazons. We generally include the oldest published family crest once associated with each surname. This page was last modified on 30 June 2013 at 09:42.
Weinstock Name Meaning. Jewish (Ashkenazic): ornamental name from German Weinstock ‘grapevine’.German: from Middle High German winstoc ‘grapevine’, hence a habitational name for someone living at a house distinguished by a sign depicting a grapevine, or a metonymic occupational name for a vintner. Compare Weinreb. You can find out where the majority of the Weinstock families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. from the Canadian Passenger Lists.
©Copyright 2004 - 2015 Meaning-of-Names.com-Powered by Swigity, LLC Meaning of Weinstock Last Name-Surname-Family Name Weinstock. 
Weinstock Name Meaning. Jewish (Ashkenazic): ornamental name from German Weinstock ‘grapevine’.German: from Middle High German winstoc ‘grapevine’, hence a habitational name for someone living at a house distinguished by a sign depicting a grapevine, or a metonymic occupational name for a vintner. Compare Weinreb. Click on a circle in the chart to view Weinstock birth and death records. An unusually short lifespan might indicate that your ancestors lived in harsh conditions. A short lifespan might also indicate health problems that were once prevalent in your family.