HIV infection resulting from blood transfusion has been documented repeatedly since the first case report in late 1982.(6-8,9) In the United States, almost all cases are due to blood transfused before March 1985, when HIV antibody testing became available to screen donated blood. HIV-1 antibody ELISA tests detect 8-92% of HIV-2 infections, depending on the geographic source of sera and the test used. As of 1998, screening has identified four blood or plasma donors with HIV-2 infection.(31,34).
1990 - The first specific test for hepatitis C was introduced. This major cause of non-A, non-B hepatitis. (the hepatitis C virus, HCV, has, as of the date of this writing, not been isolated) 1992 - Testing of donor Blood for HIV-1 and HIV-2 antibodies (anti-HIV-1 and anti-HIV-2) was implemented. 1492 - Pope Innocent VIII, in Rome, had an apoplectic stroke; became weak and went into a coma. His physician advised a Blood transfusion as a therapeutic measure for the Pope's illness. Employing crude methods, the Pope did not benefit and died by the end of that year.
In a joint statement, Ortho Diagnostic and Chiron said that test kits were being shipped to blood banks throughout the country and that routine screening of the blood supply with the test was expected to begin immediately. The companies also said Ortho was supplying test kits to Europe, Japan, Canada and Australia. U.S. WASHINGTON, May 2— The Food and Drug Administration today approved a test to screen the nation's blood supply for the major remaining source of hepatitis infections related to blood transfusions.
The first blood transfusion in recorded history took place in 1665. Before the discovery of blood typing, doctors did not perform any screening tests before a transfusion. In the 1930s and 1940s, blood testing to screen for syphilis and/or rubella became a prerequisite for obtaining a marriage license in most states. According to Dr. Robert H. Shmerling of Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, sexually transmitted diseases were extremely common in those days.
Shares & Saves. Save. DNA testing evolved from the study of genetics, which began in the late 1800s when Gregor Mendel first studied the phenomenon of inherited traits in pea plants. His work laid the foundation for the discovery of DNA, or deoxyribonucleic acid, the molecules that contain our genetic makeup. 
In the 1930s and 1940s, premarital blood testing for syphilis and rubella became standard. Today, it is possible to screen blood for many different types of bloodborne diseases including HIV, hepatitis and West Nile virus. In the 1930s and 1940s, blood testing to screen for syphilis and/or rubella became a prerequisite for obtaining a marriage license in most states. According to Dr. Robert H. Shmerling of Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, sexually transmitted diseases were extremely common in those days.
In some resource-rich countries, testing of donated blood for HIV antibodies was not immediately initiated for a variety of reasons. France began HIV antibody testing in June 1985, Canada began testing in November 1985, and Switzerland began testing in May 1986. Germany inconsistently tested plasma products between 1987 and 1993, as did Japan in 1985 and 1986. HIV-1 antibody ELISA tests detect 8-92% of HIV-2 infections, depending on the geographic source of sera and the test used. As of 1998, screening has identified four blood or plasma donors with HIV-2 infection.(31,34).
Blood was first tested for hepatitis B in 1971 and for HIV in 1985. Today, blood is tested for syphilis, hepatitis C, West Nile virus and other diseases. Blood tests also can help a doctor identify various types of illnesses in patients, including anemia, diabetes and malaria. In the 1930s and 1940s, blood testing to screen for syphilis and/or rubella became a prerequisite for obtaining a marriage license in most states. According to Dr. Robert H. Shmerling of Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, sexually transmitted diseases were extremely common in those days.