Environment Protection. The Environment (Protection) Act was enacted in 1986 with the objective of providing for the protection and improvement of the environment. 
Under the Environmental Protection Act depositing, treating, storing or disposing of controlled waste is forbidden unless under and in accordance with a waste management licence (this does not apply to household waste in domestic properties). Date: 1990 (amended Scotland 2001). Reference: ISBN 0105443905 (SSI 2001/99) [Full text]. General Description: This act brings in a system of integrated pollution control for the disposal of wastes to land, water and air. The parts of the Act that have a bearing on agriculture are:
Part II. Under this part of the Environmental Protection Act, pollution of the environment is defined as the release of any substance as a result of the treatment, storage or depositing of controlled waste on land or within a plant which consequently causes harm to man. Date: 1990 (amended Scotland 2001). Reference: ISBN 0105443905 (SSI 2001/99) [Full text]. General Description: This act brings in a system of integrated pollution control for the disposal of wastes to land, water and air. The parts of the Act that have a bearing on agriculture are:
The Environmental Protection Act 1990 (initialism: EPA) is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom that as of 2008 defines, within England and Wales and Scotland, the fundamental structure and authority for waste management and control of emissions into the environment. Part IIA was inserted by the Environment Act 1995 and defines a scheme of identification and compulsory remedial action for contaminated land. Part III defines a class of statutory nuisances over which the local authority can demand remedial action supported by criminal penalties.
Part 1 Preliminary Section 1 page 2 Environment Protection Act 1997 Effective: 14/10/15 R4914/10/15 Authorised by the ACT Parliamentary Counsel—also accessible at www.legislation.act.gov.au Part 1 Preliminary 1 Name of Act This Act is the Environment Protection Act 1997. (3) In this section: environment law means a territory law that has as 1 of its objects or purposes the protection of the environment. health law means a territory law that has as 1 of its objects or purposes the protection of public health.
Environmental law is a combination of three things: the first is the statute that is passed through Congress. The second is the list of regulations imposed by the Environmental Protection Agency in relation to that particular statute. There are a number of federal environmental statutes that make up environmental law. These are all aimed at the protection of various aspects of the environment, and include: 1  The Clean Air Act. 2  The Clean Water Act. 3  The Pollution Prevention Act. 4  The Toxic Substances Control Act.
Environmental law is a law that was passed in the 1970, and is known as the National Environmental Policy Act. This law was passed along with another environmental act known as the Environmental Quality Improvement Act. The purpose of these laws was to protect the environment from public or private actions that could cause damage. The mission of NEPA (National Environmental Policy Act) is to form policies and make assessments that are all geared towards the protection of the environment. There are a number of federal environmental statutes that make up environmental law. These are all aimed at the protection of various aspects of the environment, and include: 1  The Clean Air Act. 2  The Clean Water Act. 3  The Pollution Prevention Act. 4  The Toxic Substances Control Act.
In order to compel people to do so, in 1970, Congress created the Environmental Protection Agency to help protect our shared planet.They also created a number of different environmental protection policies and regulations. 1 In 1970, Congress passed the Clean Air Act Extension, which was followed by the Clean Air Act Amendments in ’77 and ’90. 2  These updated clean air acts gave greater control to the Environmental Protection Agency, and addressed acid rain, ozone depletion, toxic air pollution and emissions trading.
The Environment Protection Act 1970 was at its inception only the second Act in the world to deal with the whole of the environment in a systematic and integrated way. EPA’s statutory functions under the Environment Protection Act 1970 include: 1  works approvals. 2  licences. 3  research development and demonstration approvals. 4  pollution abatement notices. 5  waste transport permits and certificates. 6  appeal rights that exist in certain statutory processes.
This guide is to help the community and businesses understand what is in the Environment Protection Act 1970 (‘the Act’) and how it applies to them. It gives a brief overview of the key parts of the Act and links to more information on the website. 