Polymer resin is a clear liquid plastic product that hardens to create a thick, durable, glossy coating. Once hardened, it is fade-proof and water-resistant. This type of resin is commonly used on furniture to seal finishes and create a durable, glass-like surface, and it's also used in many other arts and crafts when the artist wants a thick
DSM Coating Resins supports the coating industry with resins that allow the manufacture and application of sustainable coating technologies, such as water based, powder and UV-curing coatings. Sustainability and innovation are embedded in all our processes, at every level of the organization, all around the world.
Our specialty liquid coating resins and powder coating resins are shaping the future in decorative paints, high-end flooring, industrial wood, graphic arts and numerous metal applications, ranging from architectural and automotive use to domestic appliances, and more.
1 Epoxies are used chiefly in adhesives and coatings. 2  Epoxy is a thermosetting resin capable of forming tightly linked cross-polymer structures. 3  Epoxy is characterized by toughness and strong adhesion, especially when used for floor coatings.
Definition of Epoxy: 1  Epoxy is a class of resin derived by polymerization from epoxides. 2  Epoxy is a thermosetting resin capable of forming tightly linked cross-polymer structures. 3  Epoxy is characterized by toughness and strong adhesion, especially when used for floor coatings.
Resin coating is made of a synthetic material called resin that is ground into a powder before application. Also called powder coating, resin coating can be made of many different materials that are divided into three basic categories: thermosetting powders, thermoplastic powders, and radiation cured powders.
1 Epoxy is a class of resin derived by polymerization from epoxides. 2  Epoxies are used chiefly in adhesives and coatings. 3  Epoxy is a thermosetting resin capable of forming tightly linked cross-polymer structures. 4  Epoxy is characterized by toughness and strong adhesion, especially when used for floor coatings.