The chief executive officer is the overall, primary management and leadership role in the organization. Therefore, it's critical that chief executive officers have strong knowledge and skills in a wide variety of areas. In a form of business that is usually without a board of directors (sole proprietorship, partnership, etc.), the chief executive officer is (usually) the singular organizational position (other than partnerships, etc.) that sets the direction and oversees the operations of an
In an organization that has a board of directors, the chief executive officer is (usually) the singular organizational position that is primarily responsible to carry out the strategic plans and policies as established by the board of directors. In this case, the chief executive reports to the board of directors. In a form of business that is usually without a board of directors (sole proprietorship, partnership, etc.), the chief executive officer is (usually) the singular organizational position (other than partnerships, etc.) that sets the direction and oversees the operations of an organization.
A chief executive officer (CEO in American English) or managing director (MD in British English) describes the position of the most senior corporate officer, executive, or administrator in charge of managing a non-profit or for-profit organization. Chief Executive, CEO, and CEOs redirect here.
The CEO of a corporation or company typically reports to the board of directors and is charged with maximizing the value of the entity. Titles also often given to the holder of the CEO position include president and chief executive (CE). Chief Executive, CEO, and CEOs redirect here.
BREAKING DOWN 'Chief Executive Officer-CEO'. There are various other titles for the position of CEO including president and executive or managing director. The role of the CEO will vary from one company to another depending on its size and organization. In smaller companies, the CEO will often have a much more hands-on role in the company, making a lot of the business decisions, even lower-level ones such as the hiring of staff. In general, the chief executive officer (CEO) is thought of as the highest ranking officer in a company while the president ... BROWSE BY TOPIC: Corporate Culture Corporate Governance.
The CEO’s leadership role also entails being ultimately responsible for all day-to-day management decisions and for implementing the Company’s long and short term plans. The CEO acts as a direct liaison between the Board and management of the Company and communicates to the Board on behalf of management. The CEO also communicates on behalf of the Company to shareholders, employees, Government authorities, other stakeholders and the public.
The Chief Executive Officer reports to the Chairman (acting on behalf of the Board) and to the Board directly. The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for all executive management matters affecting the Group. All members of executive management report, either directly or indirectly, to the Chief Executive Officer. The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for: 1  1. 2  Key responsibilities. 3  Leading the executive management of the Group's business, consistent with the strategy and commercial objectives agreed by the Board. 
When it comes to corporations, you can't get bigger than the chief executive officer, or CEO. The CEO is the public face of his corporation and is the executive held directly accountable for his company's successes or shortcomings. When things are going well, the rewards for a CEO are great. He also serves as the liaison between various executive officers, such as the chief financial officer and the chief operating officer. The CEO also oversees the company's compliance with legal and regulatory requirements on behalf of the board.
The definition of chief executive officer (almost always) depends on whether a business is a corporation or not, that is, whether it (usually) has a board of directors or not. In a form of business that is usually without a board of directors (sole proprietorship, partnership, etc.), the chief executive officer is (usually) the singular organizational position (other than partnerships, etc.) that sets the direction and oversees the operations of an organization.
Roles of Chief Executive Officer. NOTE: References to a Boards of Directors in the following are in regard to chief executive officers of corporations, whether for-profit or nonprofit. In addition to the articles on this current page, also see the following blogs that have posts related to the Roles and Responsibilities of Chief Executive. Scan down the blog's page to see various posts.