It’s important to contact your doctor any time you cough up blood, as it may be sign of a serious respiratory condition. Get immediate help if: 1  you begin coughing up blood following a fall or injury to the chest. 2  you cough up more than a few teaspoons of blood. Potential Underlying Causes of the Coughing Up of Blood. This symptom can be caused by a number of different issues, ranging from irritation of the throat to lung cancer. Again, coughing up blood can potentially indicate an extremely serious problem, so call your doctor as soon as possible if you have this symptom.
Coughing up blood (hemoptysis) can be a sign of a serious medical condition. Infections, cancer, and problems in blood vessels or in the lungs themselves can be responsible. Coughing up blood generally requires medical evaluation unless the hemoptysis is due to bronchitis. Causes for coughing blood include: 1  Bronchitis (acute or chronic), the most common cause of coughing up blood. 2  Hemoptysis due to bronchitis is rarely life-threatening. 3  Bronchiectasis.
There are various causes of coughing up blood (haemoptysis). If you cough up a lot of blood then call for an ambulance immediately. If you cough up smaller amounts of blood then see your doctor as soon as possible if you do not know the cause. This is because sometimes a serious condition such as cancer of the lung can be the cause. Other symptoms may occur at the same time as coughing up blood. For example, cough, chest pain, breathlessness, a high temperature (fever), feeling unwell, wheeze or other lung symptoms. The presence and type of other symptoms may help to point to a cause of the bleeding.
Coughing up blood can also be a sign of a serious medical condition. Call your doctor if you have any of these symptoms: 1  Blood in mucus that lasts longer than a week, is severe or getting worse, or comes and goes over time. 2  Chest pain. 3  Weight loss. 4  Soaking sweats at night. 
People with bronchitis with small amounts of blood in the mucus for less than a week can watch carefully and wait for their condition to improve. Coughing up blood can also be a sign of a serious medical condition. Call your doctor if you have any of these symptoms: 1  Blood in mucus that lasts longer than a week, is severe or getting worse, or comes and goes over time. 2  Chest pain. 3  Weight loss. 4  Soaking sweats at night. 5  Fever higher than 101 degrees. 
Definition. Coughing up blood can be caused by a variety of lung conditions. Coughing up blood can take different forms: The blood may be bright red or pink and frothy, or it may be mixed with mucus. Also known as hemoptysis (he-MOP-tih-sis), coughing up blood, even in small amounts, can be alarming. However, producing a little blood-tinged sputum isn't uncommon and usually isn't serious.
Coughing up blood can be alarming, but isn't usually a sign of a serious problem if you're young and otherwise healthy. It's more a cause for concern in older people, particularly those who smoke. The medical term for coughing up blood is haemoptysis. You may cough up small amounts of bright red blood, or frothy blood-streaked sputum (saliva and phlegm). The blood is usually from your lungs and is often the result of prolonged coughing or a chest infection. See your GP as soon as possible if you cough up blood. It's particularly important to see your GP if: 1  you cough up more than a few teaspoons of blood. 2  you also have chest pain, dizziness, fever, light-headedness or worsening shortness of breath. 3  you have a loss of appetite or unexplained weight loss.
Coughing up blood is what it sounds like—when you cough up blood, expelling it from the throat, lungs, or any other part of the respiratory tract. The medical term for coughing up blood is hemoptysis. The seriousness of the condition depends on the amount of blood and the length of time the blood is being coughed up, but, a you’ll read below, it should never be ignored. Potential Underlying Causes of the Coughing Up of Blood. This symptom can be caused by a number of different issues, ranging from irritation of the throat to lung cancer. Again, coughing up blood can potentially indicate an extremely serious problem, so call your doctor as soon as possible if you have this symptom.
Causes of Hemoptysis. There are many potential reasons for coughing up blood. Causes for coughing blood include: 1  Bronchitis (acute or chronic), the most common cause of coughing up blood. 2  Hemoptysis due to bronchitis is rarely life-threatening. 3  Bronchiectasis. 4  Lung cancer or non-malignant lung tumors. 5  Use of blood thinners (anticoagulation)