When you practice driving, you must be accompanied by an experienced licensed driver. To get a Class F Beginner's Permit: You must be at least 18 years old. You must bring your birth certificate, social security card, and proof of residency. Review our Accepted Forms of Identification for more information. To get a Class E Beginner's Permit: 1  You must be at least 18 years old. 2  You must bring your birth certificate, social security card, and proof of residency. 3 
With a provisional learner's permit in your possession, it's illegal for you to drive alone at any time. If you do drive, a parent, guardian, spouse, or adult 25 years old or older who has a valid CA driver's license must be with you and seated close enough to take control of the vehicle if necessary. If you're over 17 1/2 years old, but not yet 18 years old, you do not have to provide certificates of completion for driver's education and driver training. However, you must wait until you're 18 years old to take the driving test. Here's what you'll need to do: 1  Pass a vision exam. 2  Pass the written permit test.
Motorcycle Only License. To get a Motorcycle Only license you must be at least 16 years old and have held a learners permit for at least a year with no traffic convictions. If you are over 18 you are not required to have held a learners permit. 
(Note: if you have too many unexcused absences from school, then you must wait … until the age of 16 to get a learner's permit.) To qualify for a driver's license, you must keep your learner's permit for at least 9 months, and you must have at least 60 hours of home driving practice. In the state of Florida if you are 15 years of age, your passenger  must be at least 21 years of age or older. The passenger does not  need to be a licensed driver. Call you … r local dmv to check with the  laws for this in the state you live. + 2 others found this useful.
If you want to get your California provisional permit you must be at least 15 1/2 years old. If you are younger than 17 1/2 years old you will be required to complete Driver's Ed. Here's what you need to do: First: Complete a state-approved driver education course that consists of: 1  30 hours of classroom instruction. If you're over 17 1/2 years old, but not yet 18 years old, you do not have to provide certificates of completion for driver's education and driver training. However, you must wait until you're 18 years old to take the driving test. Here's what you'll need to do: 1  Pass a vision exam. 2  Pass the written permit test.
If you're in Alaska, you can start at 15 and a half. An applicant for an original Alaska driver license must be at least 16 years of age and have held a valid driving permit for a minimum of 6 months.. Arkansas is the only state I know for sure will let you get your permit with parents permission at 14, most start at 16. You have to have your social security card, birth certificate and go to a DMV where you purchase your get papers/booklet/student driver stickers. You have to take your temp test wherever there is a DMV that does the testing and pass the test to be able to drive with an adult.
Next Step: Get Your Graduated Driver License. To apply for your provisional license in Arizona, you must: 1  Be at least 16 years old but younger than 18 years old. 2  Have held your Arizona learner's permit for at least 6 months. 3  Have completed: 4  An MVD-approved driver's education program. 5  OR. Arizona Learner's Permit Requirements. The first step of the graduated driver licensing process is to apply for your Arizona learner's permit. You must be at least 15 years and 6 months old to apply.
When you practice driving, you must be accompanied by an experienced licensed driver. To get a Class E Beginner's Permit: 1  You must be at least 18 years old. 2  You must bring your birth certificate, social security card, and proof of residency. 3  Review our Accepted Forms of Identification for more information.