Peahen eggs take 28-30 days to hatch. The peachicks are able to follow their mother nearly as soon as they hatch. The peahen leads them to feeding areas where the chicks imitate their mother by pecking at food on the ground. 
Natural incubation of peafowl eggs takes 27-30 days, and can be done in several ways. The first is to allow the peahen to sit on her own eggs and hatch them herself. Peahens normally do a good job of incubation but this method limits the number of eggs that a peahen will produce for the year. Occasionally, if a nest is destroyed during incubation, a peahen will lay a second clutch of eggs and sit on them. A second method of natural incubation, which allows for maximum egg production, is the use of broody chickens or ducks.
In Chickens and Roosters. It takes 21 days to incubate the egg. the 21st day is the hatching day. if the eggs are mail order don't count the day the eggs arrive if the temperature is below 55 degrees f … . on the 21st day the eggs will hatch at all different times. 
Turkey eggs usually take 21 to 28 days to hatch depending on what they are incubated in like an incubator or by a hen. It also depends on how fertile it is and how it is cared … for. It usually takes closer to 28 days. + 158 others found this useful. It can take as little as a couple days or as long as a couple weeks for flea eggs to hatch. Upon reaching adulthood, fleas may live a few more weeks, or up to a year or longer … depending on numerous external factors.
6. Record the day and how many eggs you've incubated on a calendar. You should be able to estimate your hatch date based on average incubation times for the bird species you want to hatch. For example, chicken eggs typically take 21 days to hatch, whereas many duck varieties and peafowl may take 28 days. 
Timing the Hatch. Peacock eggs will hatch within 28 to 30 days of beginning the incubation process. On day 26, move the eggs into the hatching space and do not touch or turn at all. The hatching area is a simple basket where the chicks can safely move around as they hatch. As the chicks hatch, move them into a safe space for rearing. 
Best Answer: Peahens begin laying eggs in April and will lay eggs every other day until a clutch of seven to ten eggs is achieved. The eggs are light brown in color and are similar in size to turkey eggs. If the eggs are collected from the nest for artificial incubation, a peahen may lay as many as thirty eggs. Occasionally, if a nest is destroyed during incubation, a peahen will lay a second clutch of eggs and sit on them. A second method of natural incubation, which allows for maximum egg production, is the use of broody chickens or ducks.
With optimum conditions such as temperature and humidity a chicken egg takes 21 days to hatch.    From when it was layed, about 20-28 days,depending on the breed. From th … e time when the egg first cracked, about one day. It can take as little as a couple days or as long as a couple weeks for flea eggs to hatch. Upon reaching adulthood, fleas may live a few more weeks, or up to a year or longer … depending on numerous external factors.
This is my first experience with peahen eggs. They were supposed to hatch today but nothing so far. I had 4, one was not fertile, one was tossed 3 days ago (rotten) and 2 are left. I think it is supposed to be 28 days. They were in the incubator for the first 3 days after I received them then I had a hen go broody, so they went under her. 28 days but i'd leave them at least until day 33. Peafowl are notorious to die in the shell just before hatching-you'll get them all the way almost hatched and then nothing. I set a bunch last year and didn't get but just a few to actually hatch.