The temporalis is a big fan shaped muscle that sits in the temporal fossa and inserts onto the coronoid process of the mandible. It elevates and retracts the mandible. The masseter sits over of the ramus, and angle of the mandible and acts to elevate
muscles of mastication, a group of muscles-the masseter, pterygoideus lateralis, pterygoideus medialis, and temporalis-responsible for movement of the jaws during the process of chewing. All four muscles are innervated by the mandibular division of the trigeminal nerve.
This muscle inserts – all the muscles of mastication inserts onto the mandible because the mandible is the bone that moves to cause mastication. It’s the bone which is involved in chewing. The temporalis inserts onto the coronoid process of the mandible.
Muscles of mastication. The muscles which are required for mastication are known as the muscles of mastication, These muscles help mainly in the movement of the mandible and not the maxilla as maxilla is an integral part of the skull and the mandible being the only movable bone in the skull.
The Pterygoid muscles is made up of two muscles the Lateral Pterygoid and the Medial Pterygoid which are located on the inside of the Ramus of the Mandible and work in tandem with the Masseter muscle to assist in the chewing action, jaw rotation, side to side movement of the mouth and the projection of the lower jaw.
There are four muscles of mastication – the masseter, temporalis, medial pterygoid and lateral pterygoid. Embryologically, the muscles of mastication develop from the first pharyngeal arch. Consequently they are innervated by a branch of the trigeminal nerve (CN V), the mandibular nerve.
Muscles of Mastication (Chewing), 3.6 out of 5 based on 18 ratings. The Muscles of Mastication more commonly known as the muscles of the jaw consist of three muscles the Temporalis, Masseter and Pterygoid Muscles which work together to move the mandible at the Temporomandibular Joint.
There are four muscles that you need to know which are involved in mastication – the temporalis, the masseter, the medial pterygoid and the lateral pterygoid. I’ll begin by showing you the temporalis muscle, which is this muscle here, this big muscle which sits in the temple fossa of the skull.