The Powder Keg of Europe   The southeaster area of Europe, the Balkans, was called The Powder Keg of Europe because of the nationalistic spirit that was causing revolts … and rebellion in that area prior to World War I. Right before World War I, the Balkan Region was called the Powder  Keg of Europe. There was increasing nationalism and growing tension  between conflicting imperial powers i … n that area.
Prior to and following the outbreak of the First World War, the  Balkans were considered to be the powder keg of Europe.. This is  due to the overlapping alliances of the s … trongest nations and the  volatility in that particular region. The nations that were in the Powder Keg of Europe were Russia, Ottoman Empire, Austria-Hungary, Germany, Great Britian, and Italy.
The Balkan region was referred to as the powder keg of Europe because two major, conflicting powers (Austro-Hungary and Russia) who had military agreements with the other majo … r European powers, were heavily involved in the conflicts of the region. Right before World War I, the Balkan Region was called the Powder  Keg of Europe. There was increasing nationalism and growing tension  between conflicting imperial powers i … n that area.
Best Answer: The Balkans, not a country specifically, but an area in southeastern Europe, have been the site of innumerable wars. Since the start of the 20th century this region was in a state of continuous upheaval starting with the First and Second Balkan Wars in 1912 and 1913 respectively. In 1914, Archduke Francis Ferdinand was assassinated in Sarajevo by a Serbian. His assassination sparked the beginning of World War I
The Balkan region was referred to as the powder keg of Europe because two major, conflicting powers (Austro-Hungary and Russia) who had military agreements with the other majo … r European powers, were heavily involved in the conflicts of the region. The nations that were in the Powder Keg of Europe were Russia, Ottoman Empire, Austria-Hungary, Germany, Great Britian, and Italy.
the balkans       The Powder keg of  Europe, sometimes alternately known as the BalkanPowder  Keg, refers to the Balkans in the early part of the 20th  cen … tury preceding World War I.    . The nations that were in the Powder Keg of Europe were Russia, Ottoman Empire, Austria-Hungary, Germany, Great Britian, and Italy.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The Balkans are called the powder keg of Europe because hundreds of wars have happened there, World War 1 started because of it, World War 2 had fighting there, and World War 3 can start because of it over any issue, currently Kosovo. Right before World War I, the Balkan Region was called the Powder  Keg of Europe. There was increasing nationalism and growing tension  between conflicting imperial powers i … n that area.
The Powder Keg of Europe   The southeaster area of Europe, the Balkans, was called The Powder Keg of Europe because of the nationalistic spirit that was causing revolts … and rebellion in that area prior to World War I. It was where the Great War, World War I, began with the assassination of Archduke Ferdinand. The nations that were in the Powder Keg of Europe were Russia, Ottoman Empire, Austria-Hungary, Germany, Great Britian, and Italy.
The reason the Balkans were the powderkeg of Europe was and still is to a certain extent the crossroads of Eastern and Western Europe. Since the start of the 20th century this region was in a state of continuous upheaval starting with the First and Second Balkan Wars in 1912 and 1913 respectively. In 1914, Archduke Francis Ferdinand was assassinated in Sarajevo by a Serbian.