The pelican has always been noted for its long bill and deep throat-pouch for scooping up fish. This distinctive feature probably gave the bird its name, which came from Greek pelekan, probably based on pelekus ‘axe’. In Britain a pelican crossing is a road crossing with traffic lights operated by pedestrians. 
Pelican (noun). any large webfooted bird of the genus Pelecanus, of which about a dozen species are known. They have an enormous bill, to the lower edge of which is attached a pouch in which captured fishes are temporarily stored. Pelicans frequent inland and coastal waters where they feed principally on fish, catching them at or near the water surface. Gregarious birds, they often hunt cooperatively and breed colonially. Four white-plumaged species tend to nest on the ground, and four brown or grey-plumaged species nest mainly in trees.
alcatraz comes from the spanish word for pelican. Alcatraz Island (California): from alcatraces, álcatraces. Pelican a sizable pelican population once lived on this rocky island in The San Francisco. bay alcatraz comes from the spanish word for pelican. Alcatraz Island (California): from alcatraces, álcatraces. Pelican a sizable pelican population once lived on this rocky island in The San Francisco. . Bay(source): s://http.www.infoplease/com/spot... spanishna
Definition of PELICAN for Kids. : a large bird with webbed feet and a very large bill having a pouch on the lower part used to scoop in fish for food. Full Definition of PELICAN. : any of a genus (Pelecanus) of large web-footed fish-eating birds with a very large bill and distensible gular pouch. See pelican defined for English-language learners. See pelican defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT.
The noun PELICAN has 1 sense: 1. large long-winged warm-water seabird having a large bill with a distensible pouch for fish. Familiarity information: PELICAN used as a noun is very rare. Large long-winged warm-water seabird having a large bill with a distensible pouch for fish. Classified under: Nouns denoting animals. Hypernyms (pelican is a kind of...): pelecaniform seabird (large fish-eating seabird with four-toed webbed feet).
Translations for 'pelican crossing'. 1  British English: pelican crossing A pelican crossing is a place where pedestrians can cross a busy road. 2  They press a button at the side of the road, which operates traffic lights to stop the traffic.ˈpɛlɪkən ˈkrɒsɪŋ NOUN. 3  Arabic: عُبُورُ الْـمُشاةِ. 1
Confidence votes 26. A pelican is a large water bird with a distinctive pouch under the beak, belonging to the bird family Pelecanidae. Along with the darters, cormorants, gannets, boobies, frigatebirds, and tropicbirds, pelicans make up the order Pelecaniformes. Modern pelicans are found on all continents except Antarctica
Meaning: Large long-winged warm-water seabird having a large bill with a distensible pouch for fish. Classified under: Nouns denoting animals. Hypernyms (pelican is a kind of...): pelecaniform seabird (large fish-eating seabird with four-toed webbed feet).
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: pelican (Noun). Any of various seabirds of the family Pelecanidae, having a long bill with a distendable pouch. pelican (Noun). A native or resident of the American state of Louisiana. Origin: From pellicane, from pelecanus, from πελεκάν. Pelicans frequent inland and coastal waters where they feed principally on fish, catching them at or near the water surface. Gregarious birds, they often hunt cooperatively and breed colonially. Four white-plumaged species tend to nest on the ground, and four brown or grey-plumaged species nest mainly in trees.