Pennsylvania Governor Corbett has ordered all Pennsylvania State flags lowered to half-staff in the Capitol Complex and at Commonwealth facilities in Westmoreland County immediately, October 13, 2011 in honor of Patrolman Derek Kotecki who died in the line of duty on October 12, 2011. Pennsylvania Governor Corbett has ordered all United States flags and Pennsylvania flags lowered to half-staff at the Capitol Complex and at Commonwealth facilities in Northampton County on until sunset on Saturday, September 24, 2011 in honor of Air Force Major Bruce Lawrence who was shot down over Vietnam in 1968.
Harrisburg Governor Edward G. Rendell today ordered all U.S. and Pennsylvania flags across the commonwealth to be flown at half-staff in honor of Staff Sgt. Bryan A. Hoover, of West Elizabeth, Allegheny County, and Sgt. 1st Class Robert J. Fike, of Conneautville, Crawford County. 
Washington Governor Inslee has ordered all US flags and Washington State flags be lowered to half staff on Monday, January 13, 2014 in honor of United States Marine Sergeant Jacob M. Hess of Spokane. Sgt. Hess died on January 1, 2014 of injuries sustained supporting combat operations in Afghanistan. Washington Governor Gregoire has directed that flags at all Washington State agency facilities be lowered to half-staff on Wednesday, June 1, 2011 in memory of United States Army Sergeant Clifford E. Beattie of Medical Lake, who died on May 22, 2011.
Washington Governor Gregoire has directed that the United States flag and Washington State flag be lowered to half-staff at all Washington State facilities on Tuesday, June 7, 2011 in honor of United States Army Captain Joseph W. Schultz of Port Angeles who died on May 29, 2011. Washington Governor Gregoire has directed that flags at all Washington State agency facilities be lowered to half-staff on Wednesday, June 1, 2011 in memory of United States Army Sergeant Clifford E. Beattie of Medical Lake, who died on May 22, 2011.
HARRISBURG, Pa. (CBS) — Pennsylvania Governor Tom Wolf has ordered all Pennsylvania flags in the Capitol Complex and at the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania facilities statewide to fly at half-staff to honor the victims of the Amtrak train derailment in Philadelphia. 
Pennsylvania Governor Corbett has ordered all United States flags and Pennsylvania State flags in the Capitol Complex and at Pennsylvania facilities in Lebanon County to be flown at half-staff on Sunday, March 6, 2011 in honor of former Pennsylvania House Speaker H. Jack Seltzer. Pennsylvania Governor Corbett has ordered all United States flags and Pennsylvania flags lowered to half-staff at the Capitol Complex and at Commonwealth facilities in Northampton County on until sunset on Saturday, September 24, 2011 in honor of Air Force Major Bruce Lawrence who was shot down over Vietnam in 1968.
Pennsylvania Governor Corbett has directed that all United States flags and Pennsylvania State flags be lowered to half-staff in the Capitol Complex and at Commonwealth facilities in Bucks County on Wednesday, August 10, 2011 in honor of United States Army Sgt. First Class Kenneth Elwell of Northampton Township. Pennsylvania Governor Corbett has ordered all United States flags and Pennsylvania flags lowered to half-staff at the Capitol Complex and at Commonwealth facilities in Northampton County on until sunset on Saturday, September 24, 2011 in honor of Air Force Major Bruce Lawrence who was shot down over Vietnam in 1968.
1 Governor Markell Orders Flags Lowered Governor Markell has ordered the American and Delaware flags at state buildings and facilities be lowered to half-staff as a mark of respect for the victims of the shooting that took place on July 16, 2015 in Chattanooga, Tennessee. 
Pennsylvania Governor Corbett has ordered all United States flags and Pennsylvania State flags lowered to half-staff at the Capitol Complex on Friday, October 28, 2011 in honor of two World War II airmen whose remains were recently returned to the United States. Pennsylvania Governor Corbett has ordered all United States flags and Pennsylvania flags lowered to half-staff at the Capitol Complex and at Commonwealth facilities in Northampton County on until sunset on Saturday, September 24, 2011 in honor of Air Force Major Bruce Lawrence who was shot down over Vietnam in 1968.