You know, an air gap's pretty much necessary, because the dishwasher runs into the garbage disposal or into the sink, and you don't want bacteria from the disposal or from the sink drain to wind up going down into your dishwasher. And this dishwasher, I still need to mount. 
Most dishwashers do not have built-in backflow prevention on the drain hose side. This is where the drain air gap device functions; to prevent contamination of the inside of the dishwasher. This type of contamination would occur if there was a kitchen sink drain backup. The Uniform Plumbing Code requires that an air gap device be installed at the countertop level to prevent backflow into the dishwasher. This device prevents backflow by keeping the connection above the fixture flood level rim and having an opening to atmosphere (preventing a siphon affect).
Air gaps do although stop the dirty drain water from getting back into the dishwasher. The air gap protects the dishwasher from this happening. It would be terrible if your drain pipes were blocked from some foreign object and then sewage started to back up. Dishwashers not only wash and rinse but are also great for drying the dishes with a heated and warm dry cycle. An air gap is used to prevent sediment, dirt and grime from infiltrating into your dishwasher and clean dishes. Below are several reasons why you should consider adding an air gap to your dishwasher
Re: No Air Gap For Dishwasher. No, even with the side loop you still need an air gap. It is the opposite of that, it is so a backed up sink does not follow into the dishwasher. I'm not a plumber but for this type of question visit www.plbg.com. Ask for HJ, Redwood, dlh, or packy.
The faucet has a built in air gap and so does the drain of the dishwasher (when properly installed). This leaves the water inlet into your dishwasher which you have already described. Now, for the code consideration. A code covers everyone. If the drain becomes clogged, the air gap will discharged the dishwasher water into the sink. I haven't measured the capacity of my sink, but I am betting it isn't near the 13 gallons or so that the dishwasher uses.
Instead of an air gap, our handyman has installed a check valve in the dishwasher drain hose below the sink, but the home inspector says this does not comply with code. The handyman says air gaps and check valves are equally effective and that even a high-loop drain line can be used to prevent back-siphonage. 
The air gap from the dishwasher drain has NOTHING to do with supply water. There is NO way the water from the dishwasher could get into the supply line. The fill opening is usually half way up the side and there is no way that water could get that high. If the drain becomes clogged, the air gap will discharged the dishwasher water into the sink. I haven't measured the capacity of my sink, but I am betting it isn't near the 13 gallons or so that the dishwasher uses.
A dishwasher air gap is a component that is installed in many of the newer homes and with the new models of dishwashers. A dishwasher is probably found in almost every home today. It is a useful tool for cleaning and sanitizing the dishes that are used over the course of the day and the week. Dishwashers not only wash and rinse but are also great for drying the dishes with a heated and warm dry cycle. An air gap is used to prevent sediment, dirt and grime from infiltrating into your dishwasher and clean dishes. Below are several reasons why you should consider adding an air gap to your dishwasher
Best Answer: air gaps are not required if you loop your drain hose to the uppermost point in cabinet and secure it. this keeps the top of the loop above the flood rim. the drain should be connected to the disposal, however if you delete it you need a branch tailpiece and can connect drain there. Source(s): exp. plumber. 