Northern Africa, it's one of the largest deserts in the world, next to Antarctica. The Sahara encompasses large portions of Algeria, Chad, Egypt, Libya, Mali, Mauritania, Moro … cco, Niger, Western Sahara, Sudan and Tunisia. It is the largest hot desert in the world, as well as the second l … argest desert on earth after Antarctica. The Sahara covers all or part of Algeria, Chad, Egypt, Libya, Mali, Mauritania, Morocco, Niger, Sudan, Tunisia and Western Sahara. The word Sahara means desert in the Arabic language. The Sahara is one of the hottest places on earth
The Sahara desert is in northern Africa, where it occupies parts of Algeria, Chad, Egypt, Eritrea, Libya, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Tunisia, and Western Sahara. The Sahara Desert in northern Africa is the largest hot desert in  the world at 9.65 million sq km. The Gobi Desert in China and  Mongolia is the 3rd largest hot desert in t … he world at 1.3 million  sq km. 33 people found this useful.
It is the largest hot desert in the world, as well as the second largest desert on earth after Antarctica. The Sahara covers all or part of Algeria, Chad, Egypt, Libya, Mali, Mauritania, Morocco, Niger, Sudan, Tunisia and Western Sahara. The Sahara Desert in northern Africa is the largest hot desert in  the world at 9.65 million sq km. The Gobi Desert in China and  Mongolia is the 3rd largest hot desert in t … he world at 1.3 million  sq km. 33 people found this useful.
World's Largest Non-Polar Desert. The Sahara Desert is the largest non-polar Desert in the world. It's length spans 3000 miles across northern Africa-from the Atlantic ocean in the west to the Red Sea on the east. It's width spans from the Mediterranean Sea on the north and extends 1200 miles to the south to central Africa. The Sahara Desert is Earth's largest non-polar desert. Tour the Sahara using the Google map below. Click on the red icons to learn more about some of the volcanoes, irrigation, meteor impacts, sand dunes, shrinking lakes and mountains of the Sahara Desert. Use the navigation buttons to zoom and move about.
By Amanda Briney. The Sahara Desert is located in the northern portion of Africa and covers over 3,500,000 square miles (9,000,000 sq km) or roughly 10% of the continent (image) . Since the Sahara Desert makes up nearly 10% of the African continent, the Sahara is often cited as the world's largest desert. This is not entirely true, however, as it is only the world's largest hot desert.
Major cities located in the Sahara include Cairo, Egypt; Tripoli, Libya; Nouakchott, the capital of Mauritania; Tamanrasset, Ouargla, Bechar, Hassi Messaoud, Ghardaia, and El Oued in Algeria; Timbuktu in Mali; Agadez in Niger; and Faya-Largeau in Chad. The desert covers large sections of Algeria, Chad, Egypt, Libya, Mali, Mauritania, Morocco, Niger, Western Sahara, Sudan and Tunisia. This is the image many people have of the Sahara: a vast sea of sand dunes.
The Sahara Desert is located northern Africa.    It extends from the Mauritania on the west coast of Africa to Egypt  in the east, and from the Mediterranean coast (ap … proximately 32  degrees North Latitude) in the north to roughly 14 degrees North  Latitude. The Sahara Desert in northern Africa is the largest hot desert in  the world at 9.65 million sq km. The Gobi Desert in China and  Mongolia is the 3rd largest hot desert in t … he world at 1.3 million  sq km. 33 people found this useful.
The Sahara Desert is located northern Africa.    It extends from the Mauritania on the west coast of Africa to Egypt  in the east, and from the Mediterranean coast (ap … proximately 32  degrees North Latitude) in the north to roughly 14 degrees North  Latitude. It is the largest hot desert in the world, as well as the second l … argest desert on earth after Antarctica. The Sahara covers all or part of Algeria, Chad, Egypt, Libya, Mali, Mauritania, Morocco, Niger, Sudan, Tunisia and Western Sahara. The word Sahara means desert in the Arabic language. The Sahara is one of the hottest places on earth