1 How long does raw ground beef last at room temperature? 2  Bacteria grow rapidly at temperatures between 40 °F and 140 °F; ground beef should be discarded if left for more than 2 hours at room temperature. 1 After ground beef is purchased, it may be refrigerated for 1 to 2 days — the sell-by date on the package may expire during that storage period, but the ground beef will remain safe to use after the sell by date if it has been properly stored.
A Ground beef should be used within two days of purchase. Be sure to check the use by information on the package label before purchase. You can store ground beef safely in your refrigerator at 35 to 40 degrees, for one to two days. If you can't use it within that time, freeze it. It can be stored frozen for three to four months
1 Ground beef that has been defrosted in the fridge can be kept for an additional 1 to 2 days in the refrigerator before cooking; ground beef that was thawed in the microwave or in cold water should be cooked immediately. 1 After ground beef is purchased, it may be refrigerated for 1 to 2 days — the sell-by date on the package may expire during that storage period, but the ground beef will remain safe to use after the sell by date if it has been properly stored.
1 How long does ground beef last in the fridge once it is cooked? 2  Cooked ground beef will usually stay good for 3 to 4 days in the fridge and 3 months in the freezer. 1 After ground beef is purchased, it may be refrigerated for 1 to 2 days — the sell-by date on the package may expire during that storage period, but the ground beef will remain safe to use after the sell by date if it has been properly stored.
Ground beef that’s been defrosted in the fridge can be safely kept for an additional one to two days in the refrigerator before cooking, says the U.S. Department of Agriculture. None of this would apply, on the other hand, if you had thawed the ground beef in the microwave or in cold water. You should immediately cook meat thawed under either of those methods, advises the USDA, since it could easily warm up to the 40°F temperature at which harmful bacteria begins to multiply rapidly.
Report Abuse. thawed meat should be cooked within 3-4 days of defrosting, unless its fish and then cook it asap. You can refreeze meat that has been thawed, as long as you first thawed it in the fridge, not the microwave or on the counter. Thawed meat will last in the refrigerator for a couple of days. You can refreeze the meat as long as you have thawed it in the refrigerator and not let it sit out at room temp. Source(s): wish I could rememeber what part of the Dallas Morning News I read this in!
And since you thawed the ground beef in the fridge, you can also safely refreeze it within that same timeframe, says the USDA. None of this would apply, on the other hand, if you had thawed the ground beef in the microwave or in cold water. You should immediately cook meat thawed under either of those methods, advises the USDA, since it could easily warm up to the 40°F temperature at which harmful bacteria begins to multiply rapidly.
1 Bacteria grow rapidly at temperatures between 40 °F and 140 °F; ground beef should be discarded if left for more than 2 hours at room temperature. 2  To further extend the shelf life of ground beef, freeze; when freezing, place ground beef in the freezer before the number of days shown for refrigerator storage has elapsed. 1 After ground beef is purchased, it may be refrigerated for 1 to 2 days — the sell-by date on the package may expire during that storage period, but the ground beef will remain safe to use after the sell by date if it has been properly stored.
Can I refrigerate or freeze leftover cooked hamburgers? How should they be reheated? If ground beef is refrigerated promptly after cooking (within 2 hours; 1 hour if the temperature is above 90 °F), it can be safely refrigerated for about 3 or 4 days. If frozen, it should keep its quality for about 4 months. Never leave ground beef or any perishable food out at room temperature for more than 2 hours — 1 hour at 90 °F (32.2 °C) and above. In every step of food preparation, follow the guidelines of the Food Safe Families Campaign to keep food safe.
• For beef stored in the refrigerator, be sure to follow the use by information on package labels. If you can't remember when a food item was placed there, throw it out. All fresh ground beef should be used within two days of purchase. Be sure to check the use by information on the package label before purchase. You can store ground beef safely in your refrigerator at 35 to 40 degrees, for one to two days. If you can't use it within that time, freeze it.