Swimming is not the only cause of swimmer’s ear. Water from other sources, such as showering, can remain in the ear and cause problems. Otitis externa can be also be the result of an infection of the bone at the base of the skull, a foreign object lodged in the ear, and irritation from itching or cleaning the ear. Allergies to earrings or skin conditions, such as eczema, can also produce symptoms
The causes of otitis externa, or swimmer’s ear, as the name suggests, include swimming or other situations in which water remains in the ear, creating a warm, moist environment that encourages the growth of bacteria. In addition, the water itself might be contaminated with bacteria or other organisms. Water from other sources, such as showering, can remain in the ear and cause problems. Otitis externa can be also be the result of an infection of the bone at the base of the skull, a foreign object lodged in the ear, and irritation from itching or cleaning the ear.
Causes of otitis externa can include: 1  a bacterial infection – usually by bacteria called Pseudomonas aeruginosa or Staphylococcus aureus. 2  seborrhoeic dermatitis – a common skin condition where the areas of your skin that are naturally greasy become irritated and inflamed, which can sometimes affect the ears. 
Otitis externa, also known as acute external otitis, swimmer's ear, or tropical ear is an infection of the skin covering the outer ear canal that leads to the ear drum, called the tympanic membrane. Signs and symptoms may include: Acute diffuse otitis externa-the swelling (inflammation) of the ear canal is more extensive. A rash can extend to the pinna (outer ear) and tympanic membrane (ear drum). Acute in this text means the otitis lasts no more than three weeks.
This leaflet lists possible causes and treatments for persistent otitis externa. Otitis externa is an inflammation of the ear canal, which may be caused by infection, allergy or other causes. Symptoms include itch, ear discharge, temporary dulled hearing and pain.
Causes of Otitis externa. Otitis externa is caused by a bacterial or viral infection in the external part of the ear canal. A common bacterial pathogen is Pseudomonas aeruginosa. 
Otitis externa is an infection of the outer ear canal and the external ear, which is known as the pinna. Otitis externa is commonly known as swimmer’s ear. Otitis externa can develop when water remains in the outer ear canal, most commonly after swimming.