Step 1. Pick a good location with partial to full sun for planting your Rose of Sharon. This plant is extremely tolerant of neglect as well as dry conditions. It can handle heat after it's been established for a few months. Remember this plant may reach a height of over 10 feet so give it plenty of room to grow. 
How to plant and grow roses. Growing roses is easier than you might think and with such a variety available, there is one for every garden situation. Whether you have a patio rose, climbing rose or rose bush, this guide will help you with every aspect of care, from planting to pruning roses. You can also grow climbing roses over a rose arch, which is very effective. Walls and other solid structures often cause the soil at their base to be dry so place your climbing rose 30-45cm (12-18 inches) away from the wall or fence at a 45 degree angle.
As you prune roses, keep in mind you want your plants to grow with an open center so air can flow freely through the plant -- and to keep your rose from looking like a crazy mess of branches. As you do this, cut out any dead branches, as well as small, weak canes. More Planting Tips. Make sure you water your roses well after you plant them -- especially if you plant them in summer as they're most susceptible to drying out the first few weeks in your garden. Lay a 2- to 3-inch-deep layer of mulch over the soil around your roses. This helps the soil hold moisture and prevents weeds from growing
The very first step for growing roses as indoor houseplants is the planting process. A four to eight inch pot containing drainage holes is ideal. Plant roses in the layer of peat soil inside the pot. This soil variety is ideal since it does not retain water for long. Place the rose pot on a tray with pebbles and fill this with water. Evaporating water from the tray provides enough moisture for the plant to survive. 
Prepare a large hole. You'll need one for each rose bush you're planting. Use a garden spade or shovel to dig a hole 18 inches (45.7 cm) wide and 18 inches (45.7 cm) deep. The measurements don't have to be exact, but a hole this wide and deep will be suitable for most roses. Use a shovel to fill the hole back up with soil. The rose's bud union should be located about 2 inches (5.1 cm) below the surface of the ground. If you live in a colder region, you may need to plant your roses deeper to protect them from low temperatures.
All roses grow best in full sun with moist, well-drained soil that's rich in organic matter. Make sure your roses get at least six hours of direct sun a day; if they get less light, the plants won't bloom as well and will be more susceptible to attack from pests and diseases. More Planting Tips. Make sure you water your roses well after you plant them -- especially if you plant them in summer as they're most susceptible to drying out the first few weeks in your garden. Lay a 2- to 3-inch-deep layer of mulch over the soil around your roses. This helps the soil hold moisture and prevents weeds from growing
Overview. Desert rose (Adenium obesum) is native to regions of Africa and Yemen. It is in the family of dogbane, in which the majority of tropical plants are included. Desert rose prefers growing in warm conditions, so it is a good outdoor specimen in tropical and subtropical regions of the country. 
The desert rose (Adenium obesum) is a striking plant with swollen succulent stems and deep red flowers. The plant is deciduous in cooler winters, but it can be kept in leaf provided there is sufficient warmth and light water. Grower's Tips: These are not difficult plants to grow well, provided they get enough sunlight and warmth. Like all succulents, they cannot tolerate sitting in water, and if you err, do it on the side of too little water. Use a specialized soil mix designed for succulents and cacti.
Roses need a lot of water to grow healthy. Don't let the soil dry out; when you see it getting dusty give the roses a deep watering. For established plants, and depending on your region, you'll need to do this about once a week. Use a shovel to fill the hole back up with soil. The rose's bud union should be located about 2 inches (5.1 cm) below the surface of the ground. If you live in a colder region, you may need to plant your roses deeper to protect them from low temperatures.