Pay by Experience Level for Assistant Controller. Median of all compensation (including tips, bonus, and overtime) by years of experience. Although individuals who have less than five years' experience earn $56K on average, people with five to 10 years benefit from a notably larger average of $69K. Cash earnings for Assistant Controllers — which occasionally include more than $15K from bonuses and more than $10K from profit sharing — stretch from around $44K to approximately $105K.
Depending upon the entity’s size, the Assistant Controller can provide a variety of duties and responsibilities. Some of these include: Assistant Controllers must also have knowledge of GAAP, IRC, FASB, accrual base accounting, organizational auditing, fixed asset accounting, and tax filing requirements. Financial Controller Resume. So you can get a feel for the information in a resume for a controller position, here is a sample taken from jobbankusa.com: Amy Smith123 Main StreetAtlanta, Georgia 30339Home: (555) 555-1234Cell: (555) 555-1235.
If you are an employer seeking qualified job seekers for your Assistant Controller position, read our sample job description below and revise it to meet your company's specific job duties and requirements. 
For Assistant Controllers, 10 to 20 years of experience on the job amounts to an average salary of $75K. Assistant Controllers who have racked up more than two decades of experience report lower incomes overall; the average sum for this crowd comes out to only $74K. Cash earnings for Assistant Controllers — which occasionally include more than $15K from bonuses and more than $10K from profit sharing — stretch from around $44K to approximately $105K.
Assistant Controller Salary. (United States). Assistant Controllers in the United States are often veterans in their line of work, with close to one-half bringing more than 10 years of experience to the table. Salaries slide in at $67K annually on average but can range from $44K to $105K per year. Cash earnings for Assistant Controllers — which occasionally include more than $15K from bonuses and more than $10K from profit sharing — stretch from around $44K to approximately $105K.
Description. Job purpose/summary. The assistant cost controller in responsible to assist the cost controller in monitoring, analyzing, controlling and recording the. various cots of transactions and activities in Addax petroleum Cameroon company. Key accountabilities/responsibilities. 
Cost Controller-Fit Out. Cost Controller Fit Out. Looking for a fit out Cost Controller for a leading fit out contractor in Qatar. 5 plus years in Cost Controlling in the UAE.... GotoGulf - 20 days ago-save job-email-more... 
Assistant Controller. The Assistant Controller – Lafayette position reports to the Location Controller and is a strategic business partner to the Location Manager of Lafayette... 7 days ago-save job-email-more... 1  View all ALCOA jobs in Lafayette, IN-Lafayette jobs. The Assistant Controller is responsible for assignments delegated by the Controller which may include, but are not limited to, month-end and year-end closing...