People often ask if they can deduct their gasoline purchase on their tax return. Although most gas is non-deductible, there are a few instances where it can be deducted. The following is a brief guide for gas deductions. Most gas is non-deductible. Most people cannot deduct gas on their taxes. Bottom Line. Generally, only small business owners and those who use their cars for business expenses besides commuting can deduct the price of gas on their taxes. According to the IRS tax topic 510, if you use your car for both personal and business expenses, only the business expenses can be deducted.
You don't get to write off gas tax as an itemized deduction by itself. If you can claim your driving expenses as a write-off, though, you can deduct the entire price of the trip. There's no need to separate out the tax. Most driving-related write-offs are based on business use of your car, but there are exceptions. Claim that percentage of gas and oil expenses. For work expenses, you can deduct other maintenance costs. Parking fees and tolls are a write-off with either method. Keep records of your expenses for six years -- the IRS can't usually look any further back for an audit.
Federal gasoline taxes are an excise tax. So are state taxes on some vehicle sales, gambling or on truckers' use of the highway. With a couple of exceptions, you can't deduct excise taxes on Schedule A, but if you're self-employed, you can deduct many excise taxes on Schedule C, for business income and expense. The federal government charges an excise tax on gasoline sales. If you buy gas for your business vehicles, you can't claim a deduction specifically for the excise tax. If you deduct the actual costs of driving--gas used, oil and brake fluid, repairs and maintenance--you claim the tax when you claim the cost of your gas; you can't claim it again
You unfortunately can’t take a tax deduction for gas taxes on your federal income tax return, however it is a component of the auto mileage rates that you can deduct on your taxes for use of your vehicle for business, moving, medical, or charitable purposes. The deductible standard mileage rates are: But even if you never think of gas tax, it is likely that you benefit from its collection: state excise tax on gasoline funds highway and mass transit projects in most states.
Allowable Fuel Claims. If you use your car only for business purposes, fuel expenses are 100 percent deductible. If you use your car for a combination of business and personal use, you can only deduct the portion of fuel used for business purposes. You may only claim non-reimbursed fuel costs on your tax return. Be sure to exclude any fuel costs that were reimbursed by an employer or client. 
State and Local General Sales Taxes. If you elect to deduct state and local general sales taxes, you must check box b on line 5. To figure your deduction, you can use either your actual expenses or the optional sales tax tables. You cannot deduct new motor vehicle taxes on line 7 of Schedule A if you make this election. That deduction is for state or local sales tax. That would eliminate any of the taxes on gasoline imposed by the federal goverment. There may be many taxes on gasoline imposed by states and one of them may be a state
From the research I've done, it seems a 7.25% state sales tax + 0.50% local sales tax in San Diego was charged on gasoline in 2008. In 2008 my wife and I spent $4,045 on gasoline, meaning about $3,754 was cost of gas+excise taxes and $291 (or 7.75%) was State and local sales taxes. 1. I live in California and will be taking the State Sales tax deduction in place of the state income tax deduction on my federal return (I understand you can only take one or the other). I keep an accurate record of all the sales tax I pay and keep my receipts (my actual sales taxes were way more than the IRS...