Locations of mechanical and chemical digestion. Mechanical digestion occurs in the mouth and stomach, Segmentation is the back and fourth mixing of food in stomach. Chemical digestion occurs in the stomach were Hcl and pepsin forms chyme, the mouth in which salivary amylase breaks down starch to form bolus, and the small intestine specifically the duodenum. The liver makes bile, the gall bladder stores it, and the pancreas makes digestive enzymes like lactase, lipase, proteases, amylase, and most important insulin.
Small Intestine: The small intestine is where most chemical digestion occurs. After the stomach empties the food and juice mixture into the small intestine, the juices of two other digestive organs mix with the food to continue the process of digestion. One of these organs is the pancreas. 
Gastric juice is a high acidic mixture of hydrochloric acid, enzymes, and mucus that begins chemical digestion and sterilizes the stomach. It is secreted by glands located in the middle portion of the stomach that secrete an average of 2,000 to 2,500 ml (which is 8.5 -10.5 cups) of gastric juice a day. 
Mechanical digestion involves physically breaking the food into smaller pieces. Mechanical digestion begins in the mouth as the food is chewed. Chemical digestion involves breaking down the food into simpler nutrients that can be used by the cells. Chemical digestion begins in the mouth when food mixes with saliva. Saliva contains an enzyme (amylase) that begins the breakdown of carbohydrates. 
Split and merge into it. Answer by Mercyadekanle. Confidence votes 96. Chemical digestion occurs int he stomach where acids break down the food turning it into chyme, and also happens in the mouth where saliva mixed with enzymes break food into bolus. Sometimes this can extend to 30-48 hours. Answer 2 Digestion is by no means a quick process, taking around 24-48 hours. The food spends around 30 minutes - 2 hours getting to the small intestine, 2-6 hours getting all the nutrients extracted, and the rest in the intestines.
Mechanical digestion is done by chewing and griding of food in mouth by the help of teeths and by parastaltic movemetn of stomach.    Chemical digestion is done by brea … k down of complex food into simpler one by the help of some enzymes and digestive juices. Sometimes this can extend to 30-48 hours. Answer 2 Digestion is by no means a quick process, taking around 24-48 hours. The food spends around 30 minutes - 2 hours getting to the small intestine, 2-6 hours getting all the nutrients extracted, and the rest in the intestines.
Fat digestion begins in your mouth and protein digestion begins in your stomach. The most extensive breakdown of these nutrients, however, occurs in your small intestine, with assistance from your pancreas and gallbladder. Different groups of chemicals are responsible for the digestion lipids and proteins. 
Chemical digestion that occurs in the stomach is mainly via enzymes and hydrochloric acid. The stomach secretes pepsinogen which turns into pepsin and breaks down proteins. The hydrochloric acid provides a low pH level in which the enzymes can thrive. 
1 The churning action of the stomach muscles physically breaks down the food. 2  The stomach releases acids and enzymes for the chemical breakdown of food. 3  The enzyme pepsin is responsible for protein breakdown. 4  The stomach releases food into the small intestine in a controlled and regulated manner. Function of the stomach. 1  The stomach is J-shaped and it can expand to temporarily store food. 2  Partial digestion of the food takes place here. 3  The stomach releases acids and enzymes for the chemical breakdown of food
Chemical processes that contribute to digestion also begin in the mouth with action of saliva on food. However, most of the chemical digestive processes occur in the stomach and small intestine-where the partly-digested materials are subjected to gastric juices, pancreatic juice, succus entericus and so on. Absorption is the uptake of fluids or other substances by the tissues of the body. Most of the absorption part of the digestive process occurs in the jejunum and the ileum of the small intestine, though alcohol is readily absorbed through the stomach.