Chickens usually don't simply stop laying eggs when they get to a certain age, but they will lay fewer as they get older. That said, most laying breeds will lay more or less productively in backyard terms for five or seven years. 
When Pullets Start to Lay Eggs. Summer has arrived and your spring chicks will be approaching puberty. Assuming they’ve enjoyed good food and care, the young hens, called pullets, begin laying sometime between their 16th and 24th week of age. You can anticipate the arrival of eggs soon! Discovering a hen’s first egg from your own hand-raised chicks is a thrill. Pullet eggs are tiny and look like gems in the nest. If your pullets are over 16 weeks of age, now is the time to switch them to a Nutrena® layer feed, as laying hens need special nutrition. Producing eggs places great nutritional strain on a hen’s body.
For backyard/pet chickens, the peak laying time is the first 3 to 4 years of age. Again, this can vary greatly between individual birds and breeds. Hens don't have a definite end to egg-laying, but eggs become fewer and at greater intervals as they age. 
Report Abuse. Most breeds start laying about 20-22 weeks and will lay every day or every other day for about 3 years. They will lay after that but not as much. If people arekeeping them for eggs they usually kill them and use them for stewing hens after about 3 years. They will continue to lay well for about 2 years, then they start to taper off,...might lay 3 eggs a week then 2. Most farm people do not keep laying hens beyond 2-3 years..they go into the pot. But if you plan on these being pets...well, as long as you're willing to keep feeding them.....
· just now. Report Abuse. Most chicken breeds start laying small eggs around 6-7 months of age. They will continue to lay well for about 2 years, then they start to taper off,...might lay 3 eggs a week then 2. Most farm people do not keep laying hens beyond 2-3 years..they go into the pot. But if you plan on these being pets...well, as long as you're willing to keep feeding them.....
On average, pullets, or juvenile hens, start laying eggs at about 6 months of age, depending on the breed. Larger, heavier birds like Wyandottes, Plymouth Rocks and Orpingtons will lay on the later side whereas lighter, smaller breeds like Leghorns, Stars, and Australorps will start laying sooner. 
Introduction. The age at which your hens will begin to lay depends on their breed type. Hybrids are the earliest birds to start laying, starting about 1 month earlier than non-hybrids. Non-hybrids, which include our rare and heritage breeds, typically begin laying about one month later than hybrids. I have 8 hens all the same age, about 6 months now. 2 are Americana, a buff Oprinton, Black Australorp, Barred rock, Wyandotte, red something, and I forgot what the last one is. I know one of them was suppose to lay white eggs, the Americana green or blue eggs and the rest brown eggs.
Learn what to do when your chickens stop laying eggs. The final chapter in the oval of life. (This is the sixth and final post in our Raising Chickens 101 beginner series .). Sooner or later, your chickens will stop laying eggs. 
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Chickens, whether the chicken is brown, white, blue, red or, or... all start laying eggs when they are mature enough to do so. The average age for chickens to start laying eggs is 5-6 months of age. You will notice the wattle and comb begin to appear more red than pink as they become more developed and distinct. This is an indicator that the young hen is about ready to start laying. And brown chickens don't necessarily lay brown eggs. 