Actress | Writer | Art Director. Yayoi Kusama was born on March 22, 1929 in Matsumoto, Nagano, Japan. She is an actress and writer, known for Kusama's Self-Obliteration (1967), Tokyo Decadence (1992) and Marc Jacobs & Louis Vuitton (2007). See full bio »
News. Painter, sculptor, filmmaker, and performer Yayoi Kusama (Japanese, b.1929) is a famously provocative avant-garde artist, best known for her works featuring repeating motifs and psychedelic imagery that evoke themes of psychology, feminism, obsession, sex, creation, destruction, and intense self-reflection. 
Yayoi Kusama was born in 1929, the youngest daughter of a well-to-do family in the mountainous region of Matsumoto in central Japan. Kusama's family; Yayoi is second from the right. Courtesy Yayoi Kusama Studio, Inc. Her family made their living from the cultivation of plant seeds; there is still a plant nursery on the site of Kusama’s childhood home. Hers was a conventional upbringing, and when Kusama began to express enthusiasm in making art, her family were not wholly supportive of her interest.
Born in Matsumoto, Nagano into an upper-middle-class family of seedling merchants, Kusama started creating art at an early age, going on to study Nihonga painting in Kyoto in 1948. Switching to sculpture and installation as her primary mediums, Kusama became a fixture of the New York avant-garde, having her works exhibited alongside the likes of Andy Warhol, Claes Oldenburg and George Segal during the early 1960s, where she became associated with the pop art movement.
1 votes so far. Email Print. Yayoi Kusama, born March 22, 1929 in Matsumoto City, Nagano, Japan is a Japanese artist whose paintings, collages, soft sculptures, performance art and environmental installations all share an obsession with repetition, pattern, and accumulation. What makes Yayoi Kusama's art notable is a kind of cosmological obsession integrated into art as forms of proliferating repetition and endless
Yayoi Kusama (草間 彌生 or 弥生, Kusama Yayoi, born March 22, 1929) is a Japanese artist and writer. Born in Matsumoto, Nagano into an upper-middle-class family of seedling merchants, Kusama started creating art at an early age, going on to study Nihonga painting in Kyoto in 1948.
Matsumoto City Museum of Art. Received the 2006 National Lifetime Achievement Awards, the Order of the Rising Sun, Gold Rays with Losette and The Praemium Imperiale-Painting-in 2006. In 2008, Documentary film : “Yayoi Kusama, I adore myself released in Japan and also screened at international film festival and museum. Exhibition tour started at Museum Boijmans Van Beuningen in Rotterdam, traveled to Museum of Contemporary Art Sydney in Australia in 2009, City Gallery Wellington in New Zealand. Showed large paintings, soft sculptures, and environmental sculptures using mirrors and electric lights. In the latter 1960s, staged many happenings such as body painting festivals, fashion shows and anti-war demonstrations. Launched media-related activities such as film production and newspaper publication.
In her childhood in Matsumoto city in Nagano, Japan, where she was born in 1929 and graduated a local high school, Kusama was a great visionary; it was reported that she frequently saw aurora-fringed objects and heard animals and plants uttering human languages. What makes Yayoi Kusama's art notable is a kind of cosmological obsession integrated into art as forms of proliferating repetition and endless accumulation.