1 You can use either fresh or dry lavender buds for this project. 2  I didn’t remove my lavender buds from the stalk. 3  The stalks have some of the same fragrant oils as the flowers/buds but not as much. 4  Pour the lavender into the bowl or mortar and use the back of a spoon or pestle to crush the buds to release the oil. I can if I use my fresh lavender to make lavender essential oil! The technique is similar I the directions I use to make orange essential oil from orange peels. How to Make Lavender Oil Extract. Technically this tutorial makes a lavender tincture or extract which is a little less potent than a pure essential oil.
Lavender oil is not just for aromatherapy but for many healing purposes too. So, why not make your own lavender oil and enjoy its benefits. Lavender oil is one of the most commonly used multipurpose oils, and one of my most favorite essential oils. Lavender oil can be added to the bathtub, some drops can be added to a pillow, or it can be used for massage. 
April 25, 2012 by Stacy ·. Simple Lavender Body Oil I adapted this recipe from one found in The Herbal Home Spa by Greta Breedlove. Ingredients 1 cup oil (Use Grapeseed, safflower or sweet almond oil) Note: It is nice to use a variety of oils to make up the 1 cup. Such as 2/3 cup grapeseed and 1/3 cup safflower. If you have wheat germ oil on hand it is a lovely addition, too. 1 Note: It is nice to use a variety of oils to make up the 1 cup. 2  Such as 2/3 cup grapeseed and 1/3 cup safflower. 3 
If you only use one essential oil, this is it! Lavender (lavandula angustifolia) is the most versatile of all essential oils. Most commonly known for its relaxing effects on the body, therapeutic-grade lavender has been highly regarded for the skin. It may be used to cleanse cuts, bruises and skin irritations. 
2. Let the lavender dry. If you are using fresh lavender, dry it first in shade or wrapped in a cloth, to enhance its aroma and minimize the chance of the oil becoming rancid. Tie the sprig up with rubber bands or a string and let it hang upside down in a dry, warm area. 1. Cut sprigs of fresh lavender or purchase them dried. Cut off the stems of lavender along with the flowers, in 6 inch (15 centimeter) segments or longer. The leaves and new stems can be used to infuse oil as well as the flowers, although the woody, thick stems near the base should be avoided. You may use flower buds or strong-smelling flowers
http://waysandhow.com. How to make lavender oil -- that sweet, refreshing, relaxing scent so popular for its soothing fragrance and antiseptic properties! Fragrance oils are expensive, but one of the most popular, lavender oil, is easy enough to make on your own. Here's how!
Growing Lavender plants means you can make Lavender oil! Making your own Lavender Oil from your plants is a question that many people ask how to accomplish. I will tell you about making Lavender Oil as well as give you a simple recipe below to extract Lavender Oil. Here is how to make Lavender oil from fresh Lavender: You will need fresh Lavender flowers which produce the best fragrance although you may also use Lavender plant trimmings such as the Lavender leaves and stems but avoid the old woody growth of the plant.
As well as making scent oils for use in aromatherapy, massage oils and making beauty products like soaps and lotions. It is a simple process of infusing flowers, herbs or spices into an oil by heating or letting it sit in a sunny spot so that the volatile oils can transfer into the carrier oil. 
The lavender-infused oil or balm below are excellent choices for home recipes, as they are easy to make, can be used with any amount of lavender, and result in a ready-to-use product. 1. Cut sprigs of fresh lavender or purchase them dried. Cut off the stems of lavender along with the flowers, in 6 inch (15 centimeter) segments or longer. The leaves and new stems can be used to infuse oil as well as the flowers, although the woody, thick stems near the base should be avoided. You may use flower buds or strong-smelling flowers