Ginger is a rhizome that is widely used as a culinary herb. The light yellow herb has a fiery, pungent taste that adds zest to any food. It has a host of minerals and a few vitamins.
Natural vitamins, minerals, and nutrients found in Ginger: Carbohydrates | Vitamin B6 | Vitamin C | Dietary Fiber | Magnesium | Manganese | Potassium | Copper |.
Nonetheless, it composes many essential nutrients and vitamins such as pyridoxine (vitamin B-6), pantothenic acid (vitamin B-5) that are required for optimum health. Furthermore, it also holds good amount of minerals like potassium, manganese, copper, and magnesium. Potassium is an important component of cell and body fluids that helps controlling heart rate and blood pressure.
Ginger has been used by Chinese herbalists for more than 2,500 years as flavouring in food and also as a medicine. There is a wide range of benefits of ginger such as nausea, digestive problems, circulation and arthritis. Nausea caused during pregnancy or by travelling is one of the benefits of ginger root.
Not all prenatal vitamins are created equally. Compare the leading National brands against our premium prenatal. femMED’s Pregnancy + Ginger is a premium-quality prenatal supplement that is good for mother and baby, providing 21 essential vitamins and minerals and nothing else. No fillers.
Ginger is often included in many herbal decongestants and can help to minimise the symptoms of respiratory conditions, colds and allergies. With all the benefits of ginger and continuing research, the ginger root is fast becoming a very popular medicinal herb.
Ginger root slices, boiled in water with lemon or orange juice, and honey, is a popular herbal drink in ayurvedic medicine to relieve common cold, cough, and sore throat. Its extraction is used as a vehicle to mask bitterness and after-taste in traditional ayurvedic preparations.
It can be used fresh, dried and powdered, or as a juice or oil. Ginger is commonly used to treat various types of “ stomach problems,” including motion sickness, morning sickness, colic, upset stomach, gas, diarrhea, nausea caused by cancer treatment, nausea and vomiting after surgery, as well as loss of appetite.
How to mute ads) Natural vitamins, minerals, and nutrients found in Ginger: Carbohydrates | Vitamin B6 | Vitamin C | Dietary Fiber | Magnesium | Manganese | Potassium | Copper | Click here to compare these nutrition facts with other vegetables.