As light is transmitted through more optically dense substances, it slows down i. Optical density is not the same as mass density (Ex. oil is less dense by mass than water-remember that oil floats on water-, but it is more optically dense, so light slows down more in oil than in water)* ii. In air, light travels only slightly less than c iii. In water, light travels at 75% c iv. 
Refraction of Light When electromagnetic radiation, in the form of visible light, travels from one substance or medium into another, the light waves may undergo a phenomenon known as refraction, which is manifested by a bending or change in direction of the light.
Refraction of Light as it passes from less dense to more dense mediums. When light passes from a less dense to a more dense substance, (for example passing from air into water), the light is refracted (or bent) towards the normal. 1 As light initially enters the water, it is refracted as in figure (b) and then reflected off the mirror (at the bottom of the glass). 2  Upon exiting the water, the light is bent away from the normal as it passes from water (more dense) and into air (less dense).
The extent to which it bends is called the index of refraction. The higher the index of refraction, the more the light bends. Water has a higher index of refraction than air, as evidenced by the pencil in the glass of water. Materials have designated indexes of refractions based on measured values and calculations. At this time, the concept of index of refraction should be discussed on relative terms. When a substance bends light more than another, it is said to have a higher index of refraction. Oil has a higher index of refraction than water or air. Assessment: Students' responses to key concepts and their responses to additional example
Light refracts whenever it travels at an angle into a substance with a different refractive index (optical density). This change of direction is caused by a change in speed. For example, when light travels from air into water, it slows down, causing it to continue to travel at a different angle or direction. Video: Refraction. Refraction is the bending of light (it also happens with sound, water and other waves) as it passes from one transparent substance into another. This bending by refraction makes it possible for us to have lenses, magnifying glasses, prisms and rainbows.
Refraction of Light by Water. Light entering or exting a water surface is bent by refraction. The index of refracton for water is 4/3, implying that light travels 3/4 as fast in water as it does in vacuum. Refraction at the water surface gives the broken pencil effect shown above.
1 Light traveling from a less dense to a more dense medium refract towards the normal. 2  This behavior is exhibited by light moving from air into water. 3  The greater the difference in density between the two media, the greater the refraction. 4  The greater the incident angle, the greater the refraction. Refracted light rays behave in the following ways: 1  Light traveling from a more dense to a less dense medium refract away from the normal. 2  This behavior is exhibited by light moving from water to air. 3 
It actually slows down when it moves through some transparent materials, like glass or water. When light slows down, it changes direction. This refraction of light is the reason a straw in water looks bent or broken and why objects viewed through a glass bottle appear distorted. 
Answers. Best Answer: Oil, but the difference is not huge: (Oil: refractive index is about 1.5. Water has a refractive index of about 1.3). But the reason is not easy to explain. Oil slows light down more than water, but that is not quite an explanation. A table of various refractive indices can be found here: http://www.robinwood.com/Catalog/Technic... Very roughly speaking, one could say that there is more interaction between the molecules in oil and the light, than with water and light