Borage is a plant. Its flowers and leaves, as well as the oil from its seeds are used as medicine. Borage seed oil is used for skin disorders including eczema, seborrheic dermatitis, and neurodermatitis. NSAIDs are anti-inflammatory medications used to decrease pain and swelling. Borage seed oil is also used as an anti-inflammatory medication. Sometimes NSAIDs and borage seed oil are used together for rheumatoid arthritis.
We also plant borage under our trees in the heirloom fruit orchard. The flavor of the borage leaves resembles that of cucumber. Borage will grow to a height of about 18 inches, and spread about 12 inches. Borage is hardy annual that is a native of northern Europe, and grows well in the temperate regions of North America. The flowers and young leaves may be used to garnish salads. \r\n\tWith bright blue, star-shaped flowers honey bees love borage. The leaves taste like a cucumber. Growing to a height of about 18 inches, and spreading about 12 inches, it's a hardy annual that grows well in the temperate regions of North America. call us today - 877-620-SEED.
Borage seed oil is derived from the seeds of the Borago officinalis (borage). Borage seed oil has one of the highest amounts of γ-linolenic acid (GLA) of seed oils — higher than blackcurrant seed oil or evening primrose oil, to which it is considered similar. GLA typically comprises about 24% of the oil. 
BORAGE Seeds. Borage is a 1-3 foot tall annual that produces large, bristly, gray-green leaves and beautiful, powder blue, starlike flowers. When young, the cucumber flavored leaves may be added to salads. The flowers (which are excellent for cutting) are a favorite of honeybees and used as garnishes (in cold drinks like ice tea and lemonade) or added to salads. Borage long been used for calming properties and is commonly known as the Herb of Gladness.. Packet is 2 grams, about 90-100 seeds.
Product Description: Similar in taste to certain types of cucumber, borage is a tasty culinary herb that is widely used in Europe and increasingly popular in the United States. Borage also produces very attractive edible flowers. Plant borage seeds in a sunny spot with well-drained soil. 1  Fast Facts. Buy this product: Similar in taste to certain types of cucumber, borage is a tasty culinary herb that is widely used in Europe and increasingly popular in the United States.
Borage plant parts including the leaf, flower, and seed can contain PAs. PAs can damage the liver or cause cancer, especially when used in high doses or for a long time. Only use products that are certified and labeled PA-free. Children: Borage see oil is POSSIBLY SAFE when taken by mouth appropriately. NSAIDs are anti-inflammatory medications used to decrease pain and swelling. Borage seed oil is also used as an anti-inflammatory medication. Sometimes NSAIDs and borage seed oil are used together for rheumatoid arthritis.
Borage (Borago Officinalis) - Grow this decorative plant from Borage seeds. Borage herb seeds produce these beautiful star-shaped flowers and textured leaves. Borage herb benefits include beauty in the garden, attraction for bees and a great addition to summer drinks. Plant Borage seeds where pollination is needed! How To Grow Borage From Herb Seed: Direct sow Borage seeds outdoors after danger of frost has passed. These herb seeds prefer fine, well-worked moist soil. Borage is considered to be a liberal self-sower, dropping its own herb seeds, so you can enjoy more plants next year
Borage (/ˈbɒr.ɪdʒ/ , Borago officinalis), also known as a starflower, is an annual herb in the flowering plant family Boraginaceae. It is native to the Mediterranean region and has naturalized in many other locales. It grows satisfactorily in gardens in the UK climate, remaining in the garden from year to year by self-seeding. The leaves are edible and the plant is grown in gardens for that purpose in some parts of Europe. The plant is also commercially cultivated for borage seed oil extracted from its seeds.