Joint application design, 567. (JAD) A widely accepted design technique that is based on the idea that the best information systems are designed when end users and systems analysts work together on a project as equal partners. CASE tool, 574. (Computer-Aided Software Engineering) Software that is used to summarize system requirements, diagram current and proposed information systems, schedule development tasks, prepare documentation, and develop computer programs.
In the case of a binary CPU, this is measured by the number of bits (significant digits of a binary encoded integer) that the CPU can process in one operation, which is commonly called  word size , bit width, data path width, integer precision, or integer size. The description of the basic operation of a CPU offered in the previous section describes the simplest form that a CPU can take. This type of CPU, usually referred to as subscalar, operates on and executes one instruction on one or two pieces of data at a time.
Indeed, today's organizations run on information. The term information system usually refers to a computer-based system, one that is designed to support the operations, management, and decision functions of an organization. Information systems in organizations thus provide information support for decision makers. Information consists of data that have been processed and are meaningful to a user. A system is a set of components that operate together to achieve a common purpose. Thus a management information system collects, transmits, processes, and stores data on an organization's resources, programmes, and accomplishments.
4. Centralized Control. 5. Centralized Staff Support. A Distributed data processing facility is one in which computers, usually smaller computers, are dispersed throughout the organization. The objective of such disperse is to process information in a way that is most effective based on operational. Therefore, DDP (Distributed Data Processing) features: 1. 2. Processing of information is happening on each terminal and send results to a main server for store and retrieval purposes. 3. Data may duplicate as data may store in locally or in remote server. 4. Local computer operator can control the machine in his premises.
Centralized data processing is a Computer data processing architecture where data processing support is provided by one or a cluster of computers, generally a large. dedicated … computers, located in a central data processing facility. 2. Processing of information is happening on each terminal and send results to a main server for store and retrieval purposes. 3. Data may duplicate as data may store in locally or in remote server. 4. Local computer operator can control the machine in his premises.
System services are programs that load automatically either as part of an application's startup process or the operating system startup process to support the different tasks required of the operating system. 
A central processing unit (CPU) is the electronic circuitry within a computer that carries out the instructions of a computer program by performing the basic arithmetic, logical, control and input/output (I/O) operations specified by the instructions. The description of the basic operation of a CPU offered in the previous section describes the simplest form that a CPU can take. This type of CPU, usually referred to as subscalar, operates on and executes one instruction on one or two pieces of data at a time.
Enterprise information system, 559. The use of one or more information systems that share data and typically provide information to hundreds or thousands of users who may be located in diverse locations. CASE tool, 574. (Computer-Aided Software Engineering) Software that is used to summarize system requirements, diagram current and proposed information systems, schedule development tasks, prepare documentation, and develop computer programs.