DEFINITION of 'Multinational Corporation-MNC'. A corporation that has its facilities and other assets in at least one country other than its home country. Such companies have offices and/or factories in different countries and usually have a centralized head office where they co-ordinate global management. Very large multinationals have budgets that exceed those of many small countries. Sometimes referred to as a transnational corporation.
Adorable animal families that will make you aww. Multinational corporations (MNCs) are business entities that operate in more than one country. A typically one normally functions with a headquarters that is based in one country, while other facilities are based in locations in other countries. In some circles, this type of corporation is referred to as a multinational enterprise (MBE) or a transnational corporation (TNC). The idea of a multinational corporation has been around for centuries. Some trace the origins of the concept back to the Dutch East India Company of the 17th century, as the corporate structure involved a presenc
A multinational corporation (MNC) or multinational enterprise is an organization that owns or controls production of goods or services in one or more countries other than their home country. The history of multinational corporations is closely intertwined with the history of colonialism, with the first multinational corporations founded to undertake colonial expeditions at the behest of their European monarchical patrons.
Publisert 2. feb. 2015. Our word of the day is “Multinational Corporation”. A multinational corporation is a business that has its facilities and other assets in at least one country other than its home country. Such companies have offices and/or factories in different countries and usually have a centralized head office where they co-ordinate global management. Generally, any company or group that derives a quarter of its revenue from operations outside of its home country is considered a multinational corporation.
A multinational corporation is usually a large corporation which produces or sells goods or services in various countries. 1  Importing and exporting goods and services. 2  Making significant investments in a foreign country. The history of multinational corporations is closely intertwined with the history of colonialism, with the first multinational corporations founded to undertake colonial expeditions at the behest of their European monarchical patrons.
A multinational corporation is just that – a corporation that operates in multiple nations, with a home office that coordinates global management. Being a multinational corporation is a complicated ... Such companies have offices and/or factories in different countries and usually have a centralized head office where they co-ordinate global management. Very large multinationals have budgets that exceed those of many small countries. Sometimes referred to as a transnational corporation.
An entity managed from one home country and in business in several countries. A company or group is considered a multinational corporation if deriving 25% of revenue from out-of-home-country operations. 
Nearly all major multinationals are either American, Japanese or Western European, such as Nike, Coca-Cola, Wal-Mart, AOL, Toshiba, Honda and BMW. Advocates of multinationals say they create jobs and wealth and improve technology in countries that are in need of such development. Such companies have offices and/or factories in different countries and usually have a centralized head office where they co-ordinate global management. Very large multinationals have budgets that exceed those of many small countries. Sometimes referred to as a transnational corporation.
As the name implies, a multinational corporation is a business concern with operations in more than one country. These operations outside the company's home country may be linked to the parent by merger, operated as subsidiaries, or have considerable autonomy. As a result, most multinational corporations are investing in certain geographic locations only. In the 1990s, most foreign investment was in high-income countries and a few geographic locations in the South like East Asia and Latin America.
THE MULTINATIONAL CORPORATION 7 chapter 1 The Multinational Corporation Purpose The purpose of this chapter is to deﬁne the multinational corporation (MNC)and outline its major characteristics and challenges. The Globalization of Business The phenomenon of MNCs has been ascribed to a combination of two mainfactors: the uneven geographical distribution of factor endowments and marketfailure (Dunning, 1988). That is, because of their national origins, some ﬁrms haveassets that are superior to those in many other countries.