The respiratory system does this through ventilation, gas exchange between alveoli and capillaries, transportation of oxygen from the lungs to the cells; gas exchange between cells and capillaries and delivery of carbon dioxide from the cells to the lungs. The lower respiratory system conduct air to the air filled pockets (called alveoli) where gas exchange occurs between air and blood i.e. oxygen of the inhaled air from alveoli diffuses into the capillaries and carbon dioxide diffuses from the capillaries to the alveoli.
Gas Exchange Between Alveolar Spaces and Capillaries. The function of the respiratory system is to exchange two gases: oxygen and carbon dioxide. The exchange takes place in the millions of alveoli in the lungs and the capillaries that envelop them. As shown below, inhaled oxygen moves from the alveoli to the blood in the capillaries, and carbon dioxide moves from the blood in the capillaries to the air in the alveoli. Similarly, carbon dioxide passes from the blood into the alveoli and is then exhaled. Oxygenated blood travels from the lungs through the pulmonary veins and into the left side of the heart, which pumps the blood to the rest of the body (see Function of the Heart).
In humans and other mammals, the anatomical features of the respiratory system include trachea, bronchi, bronchioles, lungs, and diaphragm. Molecules of oxygen and carbon dioxide are passively exchanged, by diffusion, between the gaseous external environment and the blood. This exchange process occurs in the alveoli (air sacs) in the lungs. In fish and many invertebrates, respiration takes place through the gills. The major function of the respiratory system is gas exchange between the external environment and an organism's circulatory system. In humans and other mammals, this exchange facilitates oxygenation of the blood with a concomitant removal of carbon dioxide and other gaseous metabolic wastes from the circulation.
Gas exchange. Within the alveoli [alveoli: Tiny air sacs in the lungs, where gas is exchanged during breathing.] , an exchange of gases takes place between the gases inside the alveoli and the blood. Blood arriving in the alveoli has a higher carbon dioxide concentration which is produced during respiration [respiration: Chemical change that takes place inside living cells, which uses glucose and oxygen to produce the energy organisms need to live.
Oxygen-carbon dioxide-The process by which oxygen passes from the air in the LUNGS to the HEMOGLOBIN in the BLOOD, and carbon dioxide from the hemoglobin passes into the air in the lungs. Oxygen-carbon dioxide exchange is fundamental to life and is the primary function of the lungs. Oxygen-carbon dioxide exchange takes place between the alveoli, the tiny bubblelike sacs deep within the lungs, and the capillaries, the tiniest blood vessels of the cardiovascular system. Oxygen and carbon dioxide molecules (as well as the molecules of other gases such as nitrogen and highly toxic carbon monoxide) can easily pass through the walls of the alveoli and the capillaries, moving in the direction of least resistance. Oxygen molecules move from the alveoli into the capillaries with inhalation.
This is the blood that the heart pumps into the lungs. The carbon dioxide in the blood is exchanged for oxygen in the alveoli. These tiny air sacs in the lungs are only one cell thick and they are surrounded by capillaries that are also only one cell thick. 
To support the exchange of oxygen and carbon dioxide, about 5 to 8 liters (about 1.3 to 2.1 gallons) of air per minute are brought in and out of the lungs, and about three tenths of a liter of oxygen is transferred from the alveoli to the blood each minute, even when the person is at rest. Similarly, carbon dioxide passes from the blood into the alveoli and is then exhaled. Oxygenated blood travels from the lungs through the pulmonary veins and into the left side of the heart, which pumps the blood to the rest of the body (see Function of the Heart).
The respiratory system is involved in the intake and exchange of oxygen and carbon dioxide between an organism and the environment. In air-breathing vertebrates like human beings, respiration takes place in the respiratory organs called lungs. The major function of the respiratory system is gas exchange between the external environment and an organism's circulatory system. In humans and other mammals, this exchange facilitates oxygenation of the blood with a concomitant removal of carbon dioxide and other gaseous metabolic wastes from the circulation.