Gyroscope-History of the Gyroscope Jean Bernard Leon Foucault. Leon Foucault (1819-1868), a 19th-century French scientist and physicist, is responsible for giving the name gyroscope to a wheel or rotor mounted in gimbal rings -- i.e. a set of rings that permit it to turn freely in any direction. Leon Foucault named his gyroscope in 1852. A year earlier (1851) Leon Foucault invented the Foucault pendulum which he used to measure the Earth's rotation. Among his other achievements: in 1850, Foucault proved that light traveled more slowly in water than in air; and in 1858 Foucault made an improvement to the mirrors used in reflecting telescopes.
The history of the gyro is about as clear as tzatziki sauce, but it is believed that gyros originated in Greece. (The word gyro comes from the Greek word for turn.. ). A gyro is similar to Turkey's doner kebab, which was invented in the 19th century. According to Devanco Foods, an Elk Grove Village, Ill.-based gyro manufacturer, George Papa George Apostolou is the father of today's gyros. Apostolou reportedly served the first U.S. gyro at Chicago's Parkview Restaurant in 1965. 
In 1904 he invented the world's first gyro compass which could be used on board a ship. This was the starting point for a history full of maritime innovations and-for the history of Raytheon Anschuetz. anschütz 
A gyroscope (from Greek γῦρος guros, gûros circle and σκοπέω, skopeō skopéō) to look is a spinning wheel or disc in which the axis of rotation is free to assume. Any orientation, when rotating the orientation of this axis is unaffected by tilting or rotation of, the mounting according to the conservation of. angular momentum In the 1860s, the advent of electric motors made it possible for a gyroscope to spin indefinitely; this led to the first prototype heading indicators, and a rather more complicated device, the gyrocompass. The first functional gyrocompass was patented in 1904 by German inventor Hermann Anschuetz-Anschütz. kaempfe
Foucault was the son of a publisher in Paris, where he was born on 18 September 1819. After an education received chiefly at home, he studied medicine, which he abandoned in favour of physics due to a blood phobia. He first directed his attention to the improvement of Louis Daguerre 's photographic processes. In 1862 Foucault was made a member of the Bureau des Longitudes and an officer of the Legion of Honour. He became a member of the Royal Society of London in 1864, and member of the mechanical section of the Institute a year later.
A gyroscope (from Greek γῦρος guros, gûros circle and σκοπέω, skopeō skopéō) to look is a spinning wheel or disc in which the axis of rotation is free to assume. any orientation In the 1860s, the advent of electric motors made it possible for a gyroscope to spin indefinitely; this led to the first prototype heading indicators, and a rather more complicated device, the gyrocompass. The first functional gyrocompass was patented in 1904 by German inventor Hermann Anschuetz-Anschütz. kaempfe
In 1917, the Chandler Company of Indianapolis, created the Chandler gyroscope, a toy gyroscope with a pull string and pedestal. Chandler continued to produce the toy until the company was purchased by TEDCO inc. in 1982. In the 1860s, the advent of electric motors made it possible for a gyroscope to spin indefinitely; this led to the first prototype heading indicators, and a rather more complicated device, the gyrocompass. The first functional gyrocompass was patented in 1904 by German inventor Hermann Anschuetz-Anschütz. kaempfe
The first instrument used more like an actual gyroscope was made by German Johann Bohnenberger, who first wrote about it in 1817. At first he called it the Machine. Bohnenberger's machine was based on a rotating massive sphere. In the 1860s, the advent of electric motors made it possible for a gyroscope to spin indefinitely; this led to the first prototype heading indicators, and a rather more complicated device, the gyrocompass. The first functional gyrocompass was patented in 1904 by German inventor Hermann Anschuetz-Anschütz. kaempfe
The gyroscope was invented in 1852 by the French experimental physicist Leon Foucault. A gyroscope is a device for measuring or maintaining orientation, based on the principles of angular momentum.[1] Mechanically, a gyroscope is a spinning wheel or disk in whic … h the axle is free to assume any orientation.
Gyroscope Compass: History of Sperry Marine. Biographies on inventor Elmer Sperry and the history of gyroscope compasses. Elmer Sperry-Sperry Gyroscope. Elmer Sperry invented the gyroscopic compass or Sperry Gyroscope. Elmer Ambrose Sperry. Elmer Sperry invented gyroscope guided automatic pilots for ships, airplanes, and spacecraft. A year earlier (1851) Leon Foucault invented the Foucault pendulum which he used to measure the Earth's rotation. Among his other achievements: in 1850, Foucault proved that light traveled more slowly in water than in air; and in 1858 Foucault made an improvement to the mirrors used in reflecting telescopes.