Anatomically and functionally, the esophagus is the least complex section of the digestive tube. Its role in digestion is simple: to convey boluses of food from the pharynx to the stomach. The esophagus begins as an extension of the pharynx in the back of the oral cavity. Absorption in the esophagus is virtually nil. The mucosa does contain mucous glands that are expressed as foodstuffs distend the esophagus, allowing mucus to be secreted and aid in lubrication. The body of the esophagus is bounded by physiologic sphincters known as the upper and lower esophageal sphincters.
because it brings your food to your stomach. the main function of the esophagus is a tube that connects our mouth to the stomach. it is also known as the gullet. the word esophagus comes from a greek word which means to carry what is eaten. The esophagus transports food from the mouth to the stomach. The passage food takes from mechanical digestion in the mouth to digestion in the stomach. It's function though is to help and provide a place for the food to travel down to your stomach. It carries the food from the pharynx to the stomach. It has smooth muscles that allow it to perform peristalsis
Stomach. The stomach of the horse is small in relation to the size of the animal and makes up only 10% of the capacity of the digestive system or 9-15 litres in volume. The natural feeding habit of the horse is to eat small amounts of roughages often. Domestication has brought a change to all this. The esophagus is around 1.5m in length in a mature horse. As the esophagus is quite long and the horse has very little reflux capacity, incorrectly chewed are large pieces of feed such as carrots etc can lodge inside the horse’s esophagus and can cause choke.
The esophagus is a long, thin, and muscular tube that connects the pharynx (throat) to the stomach. It forms an important piece of the gastrointestinal tract and functions as the conduit for food and liquids that have been swallowed into the pharynx to reach the stomach. 
The tube that connects the pharynx (throat) with the stomach. The esophagus lies between the trachea (windpipe) and the spine. It passes down the neck, pierces the diaphragm just to the left of the midline, and joins the cardiac (upper) end of the stomach. The passage food takes from mechanical digestion in the mouth to digestion in the stomach. It's function though is to help and provide a place for the food to travel down to your stomach. It carries the food from the pharynx to the stomach. It has smooth muscles that allow it to perform peristalsis
Small Intestine. Digesta passes from the stomach into the small intestine. The small intestine is approximately 28% of the horses’ digestive tract, is 15-22m long and has a volume of 55-70 litres. This is the major site of digestion in the modern performance horse. The esophagus is around 1.5m in length in a mature horse. As the esophagus is quite long and the horse has very little reflux capacity, incorrectly chewed are large pieces of feed such as carrots etc can lodge inside the horse’s esophagus and can cause choke.
the Digestive System. Looking at the horse anatomy of the digestive system, we will start at the top: Mouth and Teeth: The mouth is very important as it is where digestion begins. The teeth harvest the feed, and when the horse is grazing act as the prehensile organ, which means they bring the grass into the mouth. It is one part of the horse anatomy that makes the digestive tract of the horse so delicate. Small Intestine: After the stomach comes the small intestine, where almost all absorption of nutrients occurs.
The horse is a non-ruminant herbivore. Non-ruminant means that horses do not have multi-compartmented stomachs as cattle do. Instead, the horse has a simple stomach that works much like a human’s. Herbivore means that horses live on a diet of plant material. The esophagus is around 1.5m in length in a mature horse. As the esophagus is quite long and the horse has very little reflux capacity, incorrectly chewed are large pieces of feed such as carrots etc can lodge inside the horse’s esophagus and can cause choke.