Enzyme Inhibitors in Plant Foods. Raw nuts and seeds are plant foods that contain protease inhibitors, which can block enzyme function. Most plant foods develop these inhibitors to form a protective barrier against insects. Nuts and seeds will not break down into their simplest forms during digestion when protein inhibitors are present. Raw nuts and seeds contain digestive enzymes. Enzymes are proteins that cause chemical reactions throughout the body. They break down food, clot blood and are necessary for all bodily functions.
1 It is high in fiber: Coconut flour contains a whopping 6 grams of fiber in two tablespoons. 2  Contrary to information publicized by the media, high fiber foods do not produce regularity, a healthy digestive system, or promote satiety (learn why). One batch of my popular Coconut Flour Pancakes with Gelatin use only 1/4 cup of coconut flour for 2 generous portions. It doesn’t require soaking: Grain flours contain phytic acid, a harmful substance that binds to minerals and prevents your body from using these important minerals.
Soaking for at least 24 hours frees the enzymes from their inhibitors. Lipase Supplementation. The best source of lipase is in raw whole fatty foods such as sprouted or fermented oily nuts and seeds, raw cream, raw egg yolks, and raw (not canned) coconut milk, etc.. 
A. The salt helps activate enzymes that de-activate the enzyme inhibitors. For grains, we soak in an acidic solution to get rid of phytic acid. Nuts do not contain much phytic acid but do contain high levels of enzyme inhibitors. A. Not at all. The whites should mostly be eaten cooked, as raw egg whites contain enzyme inhibitors that can cause digestive problems. Oxidation only occurs during commercial processing when the eggs are forced out of a tiny hole at high temperatures and pressure.
Enzyme Inhibitors. Introduction: Enzyme inhibitors are molecules that interact in some way with the enzyme to prevent it from working in the normal manner. There are a variety of types of inhibitors including: nonspecific, irreversible, reversible-competitive and noncompetitive. Poisons and drugs are examples of enzyme i
Enzyme inhibitors are just that-molecules that inhibit the actions of enzymes. They are present in all seeds and prevent premature germination until environmental conditions are right for sprouting. Enzyme inhibitors are what allows us to store grains and seeds for long periods of time. Anti-Nutrient: Enzyme Inhibitors. Enzyme inhibitors are another type of anti-nutrient. Before we get into enzyme inhibitors, let's talk about what enzymes are. Enzymes are catalysts for every chemical reaction in our body-from walking and talking to healing and digesting. Without these enzymes we could not liv
As we discussed, almond flour and other nut/seed flours contain non-heat stable fats and enzyme inhibitors. Tapioca and arrowroot flours, made from tubers, are the second best option to coconut flour because they lack phytic acid and enzyme inhibitors. They do contain high amounts of starches, however, and these starches perpetuate damage to the vili of the small intestine. One batch of my popular Coconut Flour Pancakes with Gelatin use only 1/4 cup of coconut flour for 2 generous portions. It doesn’t require soaking: Grain flours contain phytic acid, a harmful substance that binds to minerals and prevents your body from using these important minerals.
If you don't heat the oil high enough to destroy the enzymes and then filter them off, plus filter the oil, that oil becomes unstable and tastes terrible.. Ray Peat, Ph.D, author of several articles on fats and oils, and coconut oil in particular. The good thing about coconut oil is that it isn't damaged by heat. That is, after all, the job of enzymes in plants: to break things down and start the process of decomposition. High quality coconut oils, particularly Virgin Coconut Oil, have a very long shelf life (2 years or more) and would not have any appreciable amounts of enzymes in the oil.
It turned out that the phytic acid in it is not problem at all… (I think we may consider that there are others nuts and seeds with the same effect..): “ The mineral-binding effect of the phytates in coconut is essentially nonexistent. 