For example, if the holiday falls on a Saturday, the day to be treated as the holiday is the preceding Friday. However, if that Friday is an employee's scheduled day off (i.e., a non-workday) the day to be treated as the holiday is the preceding Thursday.
1 If the holiday falls on a Saturday or Sunday and that day would not otherwise be a working day for the employee, the holiday is transferred to the following Monday or Tuesday so that the employee still gets a paid day off if the employee would usually work on these days.
For Employees on First-40-Hours-If the holiday falls on a Saturday and Saturday is a non-workday, the day to be treated as a holiday is the workday immediately before the holiday. If the holiday falls on a Sunday and Sunday is a non-workday, the day to be treated as the holiday is the subsequent workday.
If Boxing Day falls on a Saturday, the following Monday is a bank holiday. If Christmas Day falls on a Saturday, the following Monday and Tuesday are bank holidays. All schools and many organizations are closed in this period. Some may close for the whole week between Christmas and New Year.
When a paid holiday falls on Saturday, the best practice in most industries is to count Friday as the paid holiday, and give as many employees as possible Friday off. Under this system, every employee is paid for 8 hours (straight time) more than he or she actually worked that week, as holiday pay.
Generally speaking, if a public holiday falls on a day on which the employee does not usually work, the employer must provide the employee with another day off work that would ordinarily be a working day for the employee and must pay the employee public holiday pay for that day. The exception to this rule is Alberta.
What are an Employer's Obligations if a Public Holiday Falls on a Weekend? This year, both Christmas and New Year’s Day will fall on Sundays, which is a non-working day for most employees.
1 If the holiday falls on a Saturday or Sunday and that day would not otherwise be a working day for the employee, the holiday is transferred to the following Monday so that the employee still gets a paid day off if the employee would usually work on these days.
Over the Christmas and New Year period: 1  If the holiday falls on a Saturday or Sunday and that day would not otherwise be a working day for the employee, the holiday is transferred to the following Monday or Tuesday so that the employee still gets a paid day off if the employee would usually work on these days.
In the United States employers are not required by law to pay you for holidays regardless of what day of the week the holiday falls on. If your employer provides you with holi … day pay you are receiving a benefit and not an entitlement.