1. Kombucha consists of tea, sugar, clean water and a SCOBY. “SCOBY” stands for symbiotic culture of bacteria and yeasts. The sugar feeds the yeast and bacteria which form the SCOBY layer — the very identifiable, thick, mushroomy layer that rests on the top of the kombucha. 
Formation and Purpose. The SCOBY forms when you combine sugar, tea and certain bacteria and yeast, obtainable online or in some health food stores, and allow them to ferment for a week or longer. As the bacteria and yeast feed off the sugar, a rubbery disc forms and floats to the bottom of the mixture.
foodandstyle/iStock/Getty Images. Kombucha is fermented fizzy tea with a taste that resembles weak vinegar or apple cider. The SCOBY, which stands for symbiotic culture of bacteria and yeast, ferments the tea, resulting in a drink with sparkle, tang and bacterial goodness. The SCOBY forms when you combine sugar, tea and certain bacteria and yeast, obtainable online or in some health food stores, and allow them to ferment for a week or longer. As the bacteria and yeast feed off the sugar, a rubbery disc forms and floats to the bottom of the mixture.
Thank you for the information on how to grow your own scoby and brew kombucha! I have a beautifully formed 1/3 scoby that I created using black tea, sugar, apple cider vinegar and raw kombucha. My question is whether or not I can drink the batch that I formed the original scoby in. Hi, I started trying to grow my SCOBY – in a quart mason jar, with the bottle of raw organic tea and the sweetened tea for starter. It’s been about 2 weeks and there’s nothing on top. The tea smells right and isn’t spoiling, and there’s sediment on the bottom of the jar. The temp is a pretty steady 76-77 degrees.
A symbiotic colony of bacteria and yeast, or SCOBY is a popular term (rather than scientific) used to refer to mixed cultures of bacteria and yeast present during production of kombucha. 
Kombucha including the culture. Kombucha refers to any of a variety of fermented, lightly effervescent sweetened black or green tea drinks that are commonly used as functional beverages for their unsubstantiated health benefits. A kombucha culture is a symbiotic culture of bacteria and yeast (SCOBY), similar to mother of vinegar, containing one or more species each of bacteria and yeasts, which form a zoogleal mat known as a mother..
And that's exactly what it is! A scoby is the living home for the bacteria and yeast that transform sweet tea into tangy, fizzy kombucha — think of the scoby as the coral reef of the bacteria and yeast world. It a rubbery raft that floats on the surface of the kombucha. You can use it to start your first batch of kombucha, or you can use it as a cleaning solution on your counters. Trouble-Shooting Your scoby is forming normally and is healthy if... You see bubbles, clear jelly-like masses, opaque jelly-like masses, stringy or gritty brown bits.
You grow a new scoby from scratch by combining tea, sugar, and some pre-made kombucha. You can use homemade kombucha from a friend or store-bought kombucha, but make sure it's a raw, unflavored variety. It also helps if you can see one of those little blobby things floating at the top or bottom of the bottle. You can use it to start your first batch of kombucha, or you can use it as a cleaning solution on your counters. Trouble-Shooting Your scoby is forming normally and is healthy if... You see bubbles, clear jelly-like masses, opaque jelly-like masses, stringy or gritty brown bits.
SCOBY stands for symbiotic culture of bacteria and yeast, which is what turns sugary tea into kombucha. It feels kind of like a rubbery pancake, Christensen said of the beige cellulose disc that contains the yeast and bacteria that ferments and cultures kombucha. 
Kombucha (kom·boo·cha) is a slightly fizzy and very refreshing tea drink packed with health benefits. Kombucha is a combination of tea, sugar, and a powerful living culture called SCOBY. The Kombucha SCOBY is made up of many different bacteria including Gluconacetobacter, which is unique to Kombucha