English (Modern). Meaning: Jaylen really means one who never backs down and yes we r aggressive and athletic and my name is JAYLEN. so tecnicly we r ZOE'S. a person that is nice and doesnt knw wat he rele wants n lyf,,,,,,doesnt rele LOVE that person...he jus hides hys emotions =).
Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Jaylen and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Jaylen and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. Popularity of the Name Jaylen. Below you will find the popularity of the baby name Jaylen displayed annually, from 1880 to the present day in our name popularity chart. Hover over or click on the dots that represent a year to see how many babies were given the name for that year, for both genders, if available.
The first thing you should know if you are considering Jaylen for your baby's name is that in most countries all over the world the name Jaylen is a boy name. The name Jaylen is of American origin, and is used mostly in English speaking countries but also in a few other countries and languages of the world. Popularity of the Name Jaylen. Below you will find the popularity of the baby name Jaylen displayed annually, from 1880 to the present day in our name popularity chart. Hover over or click on the dots that represent a year to see how many babies were given the name for that year, for both genders, if available.
Jaylen /jay-len/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced JAY-len. It is of American origin. Contemporary blend of Jay and Len, possibly a rhyming variant of Gaylen. Biblical: Jalon (Hebrew) was a descendant of Judah. Jaylen is an uncommonly occurring first name for men. Jaylen is an unusual last name too for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the baby name popularity of Jaylen for boys.
Jaylen Name Meaning. The meaning of Jaylen is “Jaybird”. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. Popularity of the Name Jaylen. Below you will find the popularity of the baby name Jaylen displayed annually, from 1880 to the present day in our name popularity chart. Hover over or click on the dots that represent a year to see how many babies were given the name for that year, for both genders, if available.
[ 2 syll. jay-len, ja-yl-en ] The baby boy name Jaylen is sometimes used as a girl name. It is pronounced as JH EY-LehN †. Jaylen is an English name of English-American and English origin. Jaylen is a variant of the name Jalen (English). Jaylen is also a variant (English) of the name Jay (English and Indian). Jaylen is popular as a baby name for boys. The name's popularity has been growing since the 1990s; before that, it was of very modest use only. Its usage peaked recently in 2009 with 0.105% of baby boys being given the name Jaylen. Its ranking then was #175.
The name Jaylen is a variant of Jalen. Other popular variants of the name Jalen are: Jaelan, Jaelin, Jaelon, Jailin, Jaillen, Jaillin, Jailon, Jalan, Jalin, Jalon, Jayelan, Jayelen, Jaylan, Jaylen (English), Jaylin (English), Jaylon (English), Jaylonn. See worldwide popularity rankings of Jaylen as a baby name (outside USA). As a baby boy name, Jaylen is currently a popular baby name, with a recent overall USA popularity ranking of 210 out of 1000 (source: 2000s U.S. Census) .
Jaylen is used as both a boys and girls name. It consists of 6 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Jay-len. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 1440 in baby name popularity for girls with 156 occurrences. It ranked 318 in popular baby names for boys with 1082 occurrences. View the Jaylen Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Jaylen has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Jaylen to other names. Jaylen is a variant spelling of Jalen. Jaylen falls into the bird name category