When heat activates sweat glands, these glands bring that water, along with the body's salt, to the surface of the skin as sweat. Once on the surface, the water evaporates. Water evaporating from the skin cools the body, keeping its temperature in a healthy range.
The endocrine system includes all of the glands of the body and the hormones produced by those glands. The glands are controlled directly by stimulation from the nervous system as well as by chemical receptors in the blood and hormones produced by other glands.
Adrenal gland disorders can affect the body drastically because they affect blood levels of crucial hormones. The adrenal glands produce hormones that regulate metabolism and help the body respond to stress, as well as reproductive hormones like estrogen and testosterone.
The hypothalamus works with other parts of the body's temperature-regulating system, such as the skin, sweat glands and blood vessels — the vents, condensers and heat ducts of your body's heating and cooling system.
Hormones can only affect target cells that have the appropriate receptors. This property of hormones is known as specificity. Hormone specificity explains how each hormone can have specific effects in widespread parts of the body. Many hormones produced by the endocrine system are classified as tropic hormones.
Researchers say they have discovered how thyroid hormone affects blood vessels to determine body temperature, potentially explaining why people who have disorders of the thyroid gland have higher sensitivity to environmental temperature.
The body has thousands of eccrine glands, which effectively regulate the body's temperature. As the body's temperature rises, the nervous system goes to work to stimulate the eccrine glands to release sweat. Sweat is made up of water, sodium and other substances that help cool the body down.
1 Hormone: a chemical message released in the body by cells and glands that affects other cells in an organism. 2  Hypothalamus: a part of the brain that controls things like thirst, hunger, body temperature, and the release of many hormones.
Introduction. The integumentary system consists of the skin, hair, nails, glands, and nerves. Its main function is to act as a barrier to protect the body from the outside world. It also functions to retain body fluids, protect against disease, eliminate waste products, and regulate body temperature.