Cyanide-the compound which unconfirmed reports suggest would have been used in the Tube attack-is one of the most lethal substances. Even tiny amounts of less than 0.1 grams can leave victims to die a quick but agonising death.
Cyanide poisoning is a rare form of poisoning that occurs when you're exposed to a compound that produces cyanide ions when dissolved in water. Cyanide exists in three forms: gas, liquid, and solid. Its liquid form is called hydrogen cyanide.
Perhaps similar to suffocation.Although wiki says: Oral ingestion of a small quantity of solid cyanide or a cyanide solution as little as 200 mg, or to airborne cyanide of 270 ppm is sufficient to cause death within minutes.[19] Small doses would obviously take longer to kill you.
Hydrangeas have cyanide in them, and just two spliffs can be lethal. I'm not sure what it is about them that gives the high, and if cyanide has anything to do with it though. Apple pips also have cyanide in them too. You'd need to eat a lot though to feel any effect! Written 14 Jun, 2014.
The effects of cyanide ingestion are very similar to the effects of suffocation; because cyanide stops the cells of the body from being able to use oxygen, which all cells need to survive. The symptoms of cyanide poisoning are similar to those experienced when hiking or climbing at high altitudes. 1  General weakness, confusion, bizarre behavior, excessive sleepiness, coma, shortness of breath, headache, dizziness, and seizures can all present with cyanide poisoning.
Oral ingestion of a small quantity of solid cyanide or a cyanide solution as little as 200 mg, or to airborne cyanide of 270 ppm is sufficient to cause death within minutes.[19]. Small doses would obviously take longer to kill you.
Cyanide poisoning occurs when a living organism is exposed to a compound that produces cyanide ions (CN −) when dissolved in water. Common poisonous cyanide compounds include hydrogen cyanide gas and the crystalline solids potassium cyanide and sodium cyanide.
Cyanide poisoning is a form of histotoxic hypoxia because the cells of an organism are unable to use oxygen, primarily through the inhibition of cytochrome c oxidase.