Bananas grow in humid, tropical regions of the world. They thrive in Honduras, as well as in other Central and South American rainforests and in Africa and Southeast Asia. They require very warm climates and need lots of water. No. Banana plants (They are not called trees) do not grow from seeds. It is because they lost their ability to produce seeds a very very long time ago (It is not known if they … ever produced seeds). So they are grown by a vegetative mode of propagation.
Confidence votes 1.4K. Bananas grow in South America, South-East Asia, Africa and the Caribbean islands. Hawaii and Florida are the only locations in the US with any significant production. La Palma, one of the seven major Canary Islands also has many banana plantations. Bananas grow on non-woody trees. The plants must grow for at least 18 months without freezing in order to produce bananas. I am sure you … can find pictures of bananas growing in bunches if you search banana tree on Google Image Search.
Most bananas grow in South and Central America (Brazil, Ecuador, Guatemala, Panama, Mexico, Colombia), South-East Asia (China, Indonesia, Malaysia, Phillipines, Thailand), Afr … ica (Burundi), and the Carribean Islands and Canary Islands. Bananas grow on non-woody trees. The plants must grow for at least 18 months without freezing in order to produce bananas. I am sure you … can find pictures of bananas growing in bunches if you search banana tree on Google Image Search.
The banana is a perennial plant that replaces itself. Bananas do not grow from a seed but from a bulb or rhizome. The time between planting a banana plant and the harvest of the banana bunch is from 9 to 12 months. The flower appears in the sixth or seventh month. Bananas are available throughout the year-they do not have a growing 'season'. Bananas are grown in tropical regions where the average temperature is 80° F (27° C) and the yearly rainfall is between 78 and 98 inches. They require moist soil with good drainage
Map of Banana Farms. Tweet. Delicious bananas are grown at banana farms in tropical regions of the world. The banana industry in North America sources its bananas from tropical regions. Chiquita owns farms in Costa Rica, Guatemala, Honduras, and Panama. Most of the bananas you buy are grown within 20 degrees on either side of the equator. It sends its fruit from banana farms to the U.S., Europe, Japan, Chile and Argentina. The banana industry in North America sources its bananas from tropical regions. Chiquita owns farms in Costa Rica, Guatemala, Honduras, and Panama.
Growing bananas the easy way shows you how to grow bananas without the work. These bananas are growing vigorously at Selby Gardens in Florida. Bananas are large, fast-growing herbaceous plants that grow from an underground corm. The corm is large and contains lots of nourishment. This is what enables banana plants to grow so quickly. You can plant a corm in the spring and have a six or seven foot banana plant by fall. 
Most bananas grow in South and Central America (Brazil, Ecuador, Guatemala, Panama, Mexico, Colombia), South-East Asia (China, Indonesia, Malaysia, Phillipines, Thailand …), Africa (Burundi), and the Carribean Islands and Canary Islands. Bananas grow on non-woody trees. The plants must grow for at least 18 months without freezing in order to produce bananas. I am sure you … can find pictures of bananas growing in bunches if you search banana tree on Google Image Search.
Bananas and pineapples are grown in countries of the tropics-Africa, Latin America, Caribbean, Pacific etc. Many countries produce bananas as a staple food and only around 20% of all bananas that are produced are actually exported. Most bananas and pineapples sold on the British market are exported from Latin America, and increasingly West Africa, as companies relocate in search of ever 'cheaper' fruit, pursuing a 'Race to the Bottom' in terms of social and environmental standards.