1 1. Open WinRAR and choose the folder or file that you want to compress by clicking the Add option. 2  2. 3  Select the Advanced tab and choose Set Password option. 4  3. Once you have finished entering your password, you can choose to encrypt the file name by ticking this option. How to password protect a Word document. 1  1. 2  After creating the Word document, click Save as in the File options. 3  2. 4  Go to the Tools option and select Security Options. 5  3. 6  In the field labeled Password to open, enter the password of your choice. 7  4.
Click on File and then Save As in Excel to password protect your files. From there select Tools, and then click on General Options.. Choose Password to Open or if you want a higher level of encryption for your file can select, Advanced.. Click Start and then select Computer in Windows Vista. From there find the file you want to password protect or encrypt and right click on it to open Properties.. On the General tab choose the Advanced button and pick Encrypt Contents to Secure Data Option, and then select OK..
How to password protect with WinRAR. 1  1. Open WinRAR and choose the folder or file that you want to compress by clicking the Add option. 2  2. 3  Select the Advanced tab and choose Set Password option. 4  3. Once you have finished entering your password, you can choose to encrypt the file name by ticking this option. 5  4. How to password protect a Word document. 1  1. 2  After creating the Word document, click Save as in the File options. 3  2. 4  Go to the Tools option and select Security Options. 5  3. 6  In the field labeled Password to open, enter the password of your choice. 7  4.
If you want to encrypt a file or folder, this can be done by following these steps: 1  Select the file or folder you want to encrypt. 2  Right-click the file or folder and select Properties. 3  Click the Advanced button. 4  Check the box for the  Encrypt contents to secure data  option. 5  Click Apply and then Ok. File and folders not frequently used-An easy way to password protect files is to create an archive of the files using a compression tool. When the archive is created, you can encrypt the contents by specifying a password. Windows ME and Windows XP users-Windows ME and Windows XP come with their own compression utility.
Instructions. Click Start and then select Computer in Windows Vista. From there find the file you want to password protect or encrypt and right click on it to open Properties.. On the General tab choose the Advanced button and pick Encrypt Contents to Secure Data Option, and then select OK..
Add a password. On the right side of the 7-Zip window, there will be two fields to enter and confirm a password for the file. You can also select your form of encryption, and whether or not you want the names of the files encrypted as well. Click OK when you are done. 2. Create the compressed file. Select the folder that you want to password protect. Right-click and select 7-Zip from the menu. From the second menu, select “Add to archive…” This will open 7-Zip.
Protect your zipped folder by placing a password. Choose the zipped folder to be protected. Double-click on the chosen zipped file then click 'File' then 'Add Password' and at the prompt, enter the password twice and press 'OK'. You will now need a password to access your folder and files. Right click on the folder to be protected then scroll down to the option 'Properties' and click. Click on the 'Sharing' tab and check the box that says 'Make this folder private' and press the 'apply' button. Step 3. A prompt will then appear and a password must be provided.
If you are using a single account, see the other security solutions section. 1  Select the file or folder you want to encrypt. 2  Right-click the file or folder and click Properties. 3  On the General tab, click the Advanced button. 4  Check  Encrypt contents to secure data  option. File and folders not frequently used-An easy way to password protect files is to create an archive of the files using a compression tool. When the archive is created, you can encrypt the contents by specifying a password. Windows ME and Windows XP users-Windows ME and Windows XP come with their own compression utility.
Open Microsoft Word and then click on Tools and then the Options button which opens up a dialog box. From there click Security, and then select File Encryption Options for this document. You can either select a Password to Open your file or Password to Modify your file here. For newer versions of Microsoft Word click the Home button and from the dialog box there, select the Prepare button and then Encrypt Document to set your password to protect all of your Microsoft Word documents. Click Start and then select Computer in Windows Vista. From there find the file you want to password protect or encrypt and right click on it to open Properties.. On the General tab choose the Advanced button and pick Encrypt Contents to Secure Data Option, and then select OK..
Learn how to make a password-protected folder in windows 8. In order how to set a password on folder in windows 8 you must select a folder. Right-click on the folder and click Add to archive option in the displayed menu. In the following window go to the Advanced tab and press Set the password button.