Materials. The most commonly used non-ferrous metals are aluminium, copper, lead, zinc, nickel, titanium, cobalt, chromium and precious metals. Millions of tonnes of nonferrous scrap are recovered annually and used by smelters, refiners, ingot makers, foundries, and other manufacturers. Total recovery of zinc within the non-ferrous metals industry amounts to 2.9 million tonnes, of which 1.5 million are new scrap or process residues and 1.4 million are old scrap. Secondary zinc production uses 76% less energy than primary. Nearly 70% of zinc from end-of-life products,, is recycled.
Once you’ve used the magnet test to separate your ferrous and non-ferrous metals, there are additional tests that can be done. Bring it all to Mid City Scrap Iron & Salvage in Westport for the best prices for scrap metal on Cape Cod. SIGHT IDENTIFICATION. It is a yellowish color and is generally about 50% the value of copper #1, as it is a copper alloy. Copper is seen often in cookware, electronics and wiring. Pure copper is pink, but tarnished copper is usually brown or red. When oxidized, copper turns to green such as we see in the Statue of Liberty.
This metal is very light, non-ferrous and does not rust. Brass or bronze is typically seen in musical instruments, decorative pieces, pipe valves and manifolds. It is a yellowish color and is generally about 50% the value of copper #1, as it is a copper alloy. Copper is seen often in cookware, electronics and wiring. Pure copper is pink, but tarnished copper is usually brown or red. When oxidized, copper turns to green such as we see in the Statue of Liberty.
Precious metals of different kinds are found in many common household objects, but you'll need to familiarize yourself with them before you can go about recovering them. Films of many types contain trace amounts of silver, chemical catalysts often contain platinum, and gold is found in many electronic devices. Before you consider recovering precious metals from your household objects, take some time to research the types of metals in those objects.
Separate ferrous from non ferrous metals. Iron, steel and other ferrous metals are magnetic. If they are small enough and the magnet is large enough, they can be lifted out with a magnet. Larger ferrous pieces are identified by noting that a magnet will stick to these pieces. All ferrous metals will be accepted as 1 type of item by scrap recycling companies. How to Sort Scrap Metal. Scrap metal is generated by the disposal of items that are no longer serviceable or wanted and by manufacturing processes that leave excess metal during the fabrication of the desired metal part.
The first decade of the 21st century has seen many precious metal prices soaring to record or near record highs. This increase as well as a growing interest in environmentalism has led many companies to explore the extraction of precious metals from electronic scrap through recycling efforts. Silver. Silver is the most commonly used precious metal in electronics. The wide use of silver in electronics is due to its relative affordability compared to other metals used in technology. Silver is used for contact switches due to its noncorrosive properties.
The two most commonly recognized precious metals are silver and gold. Both of these conform to a general standard for precious or valuable metals: they each have a shiny “luster,” a certain texture and density, and high melting points. Other precious metals often conform to these standards as well. Financial institutions and markets use the term “bullion” or “boullion” to refer to a precious metal that is “in the lump” or unformed, where the value is by ounce. Numismatic heavy metals are those crafted into jewelry, coins, watches, etc. where the value has to do with the actual crafted item.
Learn about different scrap metals from Non-Ferrous, Ferrous, and E-Scrap metals. With descriptions, videos, and tips on recycling your scrap metals. Check out the complete metal guide for experienced to beginner scrappers. Learn how to make more money on your materials. 
The characteristics of non-ferrous metals. Non-ferrous metals include aluminum, brass, copper, nickel, tin, lead, and zinc, as well as precious metals like gold and silver. While non-ferrous metals can provide strength, they are primarily used where their differences from ferrous metals can provide an advantage. Ferrous metals and alloys contain iron; non-ferrous materials do not. If the question happens to come up during a trivia night or your appearance on a game show, you’re pretty much covered. But it’s not so easy to tell when just looking at a random piece of metal.
In addition, most electronic scrap also contains other valuable metals such as aluminum, copper, iron, lead, zinc, platinum, and other metals. If you can learn to identify these metals, separate the metals from the electronic scrap, and find buyers, you can make a fair amount of money. 