This type of arthritis can be traced to a breakdown in your joint cartilage, and it’s linked with inflammation. Hips, knees, spine, hands and feet are most commonly affected. Rheumatoid arthritis is a known autoimmune disease which causes inflammation in the fluid of the joint. It’s different from other forms of arthritis and presents with some identifying features: 1  A hot or warm feeling in the joint. 2  Pain lasting through the night. 
Injury can also affect the ligaments, cartilage, and bones within the joint. Pain is also a feature of joint inflammation (arthritis, such as rheumatoid arthritis and osteoarthritis) and infection, and extremely rarely it can be a cause of cancer of the joint. Pain within the joint is a common cause of shoulder pain, ankle pain, and knee pain. Joint pain is also referred to as arthralgia. 
If there is inflammation of 2-4 joints it is oligoarthritis, if it is 5 or more then it is polyarthritis. Inflammation of more than one joint, especially if it is in similar … joints on opposite sides of the body, can be an indicator of rheumatoid arthritis. However there are over a hundred different forms of arthritis and the best way to find out which is causing the problem is to be examined by a rheumatologist. Arthr/o- is the combining form for joint. -itis is the suffix for inflammation. Inflammation of the joints lead … ing to damage of the bone is one of a number of different forms of
Arthr/o- is the combining form for joint. -itis is the suffix for inflammation. Inflammation of the joints lead … ing to damage of the bone is one of a number of different forms of arthritis. 1 Foods That Can Help Reduce Chronic Joint Inflammation Chronic joint inflammation, also known as arthritis is a common disorder. 2  The stiffness in the joints can cause pain, fatigue and frustration.
Some, but not all types of arthritis, are the result of misdirected inflammation. Arthritis is a general term that describes inflammation in joints. Some types of arthritis associated with inflammation include: 1  Rheumatoid arthritis. 2  Psoriatic arthritis. 3  Gouty arthritis. 4  Systemic lupus erythematosus.
Inflammation is part of the body’s immune response; without it, we can't heal. But when it's out of controlas in rheumatoid arthritisit can damage the body. Plus, it's thought to play a role in obesity, heart disease, and cancer. Foods high in sugar and saturated fat can spur inflammation. 
Arthritis (from Greek arthro- , joint + -itis, inflammation; plural: arthritides) is a form of joint disorder that involves inflammation of one or more joints. There are over 100 different forms of arthritis. The most common form of arthritis is osteoarthritis (degenerative joint disease), a result of trauma to the joint, infection of the joint, or age. Other arthritis forms are rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, and related autoimmune diseases. Pain is often a constant and may be localized to the joint affected. The pain from arthritis is due to inflammation that occurs around the joint, damage to the joint from disease, daily wear and tear of joint, muscle strains caused by forceful movements against stiff painful joints and fatigue.
Joints inflammation: Inflammation of the joint spaces. See detailed information below for a list of 12 causes of Joints inflammation, Symptom Checker, including diseases and drug side effect causes. 
Some, but not all, types of arthritis are the result of misdirected inflammation. Arthritis is a general term that describes inflammation in the joints. Some types of arthritis associated with inflammation include the following: 1  Rheumatoid arthritis. 2  Psoriatic arthritis. 3  Gouty arthritis. 