1 6:45 a.m .: The family wakes up to get ready for the day. 2  The temperature of the house is 68°F; the heat automatically turned on a bit earlier so it would hit this temperature by 6:30. 3  7:45 a.m. : The family leaves the house and the thermostat is set to 56°F.
So be sure to set your thermostat on a comfortable temperature and not move it. The “emergency” switch on your thermostat is for “emergencies”. It is designed to give you heat even if the Heat Pump is damaged or out of commission.
And in that case, you should also call a professional for help. Otherwise, just keep your thermostat set on “heat.” There is no temperature to switch it over to emergency heat, even if your heat pump is running constantly due to cold weather.
1 7:45 a.m. : The family leaves the house and the thermostat is set to 56°F. 2  By turning their thermostat back 10° to 15° for 8 hours, the family can save 5% to 15% a year on their heating bill -- a savings of as much as 1% for each degree if the setback period is eight hours long.
A conventional thermostat simply regulates house heating at one temperature. For instance, in the winter, if you set the thermostat to 20°C (68°F), it will activate the heating system when the house temperature drops below 20°C and will shut the system off when the house air warms up past 20°C.
A. With most heating systems, you will save by turning the thermostat back for four hours or more. If you have a heat pump, you should either set the thermostat at a comfortable temperature and leave it, or use a programmable thermostat specifically designed for a heat pump.
A. If your heat pump system is equipped with a programmable thermostat, temperature setbacks can save on heating costs. Manual setbacks are not recommended-when you turn the temperature back up, you could be causing the electric resistance back-up elements to turn on, increasing your costs.
1 When you leave the house set the thermostat to 56°F. 2  By turning your thermostat back 10°F to 15°F for 8 hours you can save 5 percent to 15 percent a year on your heating bill.
You can save 5%–15% on your cooling bills by raising the temperature setting on your thermostat when you are away and don't need cooling. Only lower the setting to 78°F when you are home and need cooling. A programmable thermostat can make it easy to adjust the temperature on a regular schedule.
1 However, this can cause more trouble than it’s worth when it’s excessively cold outside because it will be harder for your furnace to bring your home back up to your desired at-home temperature. 2  Keep your thermostat set at a consistent setting until the weather warms back up to normal temperatures for this season.