Philip was born Philippos Prince of Greece and Denmark on the Greek Island of Corfu in 1921. His father was Prince Andrew, younger brother of King Constantine of Greece, and his mother Princess Alice of Battenberg. He is a great-great-grandchild of Queen Victoria though his mother s family. 
He was born Prince of Denmark and Greece, his grandsons the Princes William and Henry have used Wales as a last name for their time in the army and his granddaughters the Princesses Beatrice and Eugenie have used York for a surname, so one might use Denmark and/or Greece for a surname for Prince Philip. Prince Philip is a Prince Consort to the Queen. In the UK, a Queen can be Queen regnant (a female monarch) or Queen consort (wife of the king). However on the male side, King … is reserved strictly for a male monarch.
Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Prince Philip had a german house name,not Greek.He changed his name to Philip Mountbatten All of the lesser royals,descended from him,will carry the name Mountbatten Windsor.William and Harry will have the house name Windsor. Hello John T. Source(s): Dude · 7 years ago. Prince Phillip's Greek surnames are Schleswig-Holstein-Sonderburg-Glucksburg branch of the House of Oldenburg which is Danish royal family Prince Phillip changed his magnificent name to Mountbatten which before WWI was Battenburg. Source(s): My memory.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Prince Philip's surname is Mountbatten. He was born on 10 June 1921 to parents Prince Andrew of Greece and Denmark and Princess Alice of Battenberg. During World War I, his family changed their name from Battenberg to Mountbatten to separate themselves from the German name. Answer   Prince Philip is the husband of Queen Elizabeth II of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.   His father was Prince Andrew of Greece a … nd Denmark.   His mother was Prince Andrew's wife, Princess Alice of Battenburg.
The name of the royal house is Windsor, but the surname of the Queen and the Duke of Edinburgh [ Prince Philip ] is Mountbatten-Windsor. The duke is also from the house of Schleswig-Holstein-Sonderburg-Glucksburg and so, arguably, are his heirs. 
Prince Philip of Greece and Denmark was born in Mon Repos on the Greek island of Corfu on 10 June 1921, the only son and fifth and final child of Prince Andrew of Greece and Denmark and Princess Alice of Battenberg. 
The Prince Philip is a member of the House of Schleswig-Holstein-Sonderburg-Gluecksburg, glücksburg known as The house Of, gluecksburg glücksburg So The-Surname-Schleswig-Holstein sonderburg gluecksburg Glücksburg or just gluecksburg. glücksburg might be right Prince Philip is a Prince Consort to the Queen. In the UK, a Queen can be Queen regnant (a female monarch) or Queen consort (wife of the king). However on the male side, King … is reserved strictly for a male monarch.
Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh is the husband and Prince Consort of Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II of The United Kingdom. He is a member of the Royal house of Schleswig-Ho … lstein-Sonderburg-Glucksburg and was born in Greece into the Greek and Danish royal families. Answer   Prince Philip is the husband of Queen Elizabeth II of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.   His father was Prince Andrew of Greece a … nd Denmark.   His mother was Prince Andrew's wife, Princess Alice of Battenburg.