Hypothyroidism is a condition in which the body lacks sufficient thyroid hormone. Since the main purpose of thyroid hormone is to run the body's metabolism, it is understandable that people with this condition will have symptoms associated with a slow metabolism. The estimates vary, but approximately 10 million Americans have this common medical condition. There are two fairly common causes of hypothyroidism. The first is a result of previous (or currently ongoing) inflammation of the thyroid gland, which leaves a large percentage of the cells of the thyroid damaged (or dead) and incapable of producing sufficient hormone.
Although hypothalamic or pituitary disorders can affect thyroid function, localized disease of the thyroid gland that results in decreased thyroid hormone production is the most common cause of hypothyroidism. Under normal circumstances, the thyroid releases 100-125 nmol of T4 daily and only small amounts of T3. In the United States and other areas of adequate iodine intake, autoimmune thyroid disease (Hashimoto disease) is the most common cause of hypothyroidism; worldwide, iodine deficiency remains the foremost cause. The image below depicts the hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid axis.
Background. Hypothyroidism is a common endocrine disorder resulting from deficiency of thyroid hormone. It usually is a primary process in which the thyroid gland is unable to produce sufficient amounts of thyroid hormone. In the United States and other areas of adequate iodine intake, autoimmune thyroid disease (Hashimoto disease) is the most common cause of hypothyroidism; worldwide, iodine deficiency remains the foremost cause. The image below depicts the hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid axis.
Hypothyroidism. Hypothyroidism is a common endocrine disorder in which your child’s thyroid gland does not produce enough of some important hormones. If your child has an underactive thyroid, he may experience fatigue, weight gain, constipation and a host of other issues. 
According to Payton R. G et al., common disorder of the thyroid gland is hypothyroidism which is common in women than men. Symptoms of hypothyroidism include cold intolerance, weight gain, fatigue, anemia, difficulty concentrating, amenorrhea, bradycardia (low heart rate) and goitre. An endocrine bone disease is a bone disease associated with a disorder of the endocrine system. An example is osteitis fibrosa cystica.
Hypothyroidism is the most common endocrine problem in children with Down syndrome. It is estimated that approximately 10% of children with Down syndrome have congenital or acquired thyroid disease. Hypothyroidism is also common in adults with Down syndrome and can lead to symptoms of fatigue, mental sluggishness, weight fluctuations and irritability. Studies of adults with Down syndrome vary widely, but the incidence of thyroid disease in adults with Down syndrome is believed to be between 13% and 50%
Endocrine disorder is more common in women than men, as it is associated with menstrual disorders. Thyroid, parathyroid, pituitary, adrenal and pancreases are common are part of the endocrine system and therefore are associated with bone disease. Some common endocrine disorders are hypothyroidism, hyperthyroidism, Paget’s disease, Osteoporosis, and diabetes. An endocrine bone disease is a bone disease associated with a disorder of the endocrine system. An example is osteitis fibrosa cystica.
Hypothyroidism, or low thyroid and sometimes hypothyreosis, is a common disorder of the endocrine system in which the thyroid gland does not produce enough thyroid hormone. It can cause a number of symptoms, such as poor ability to tolerate cold, a feeling of tiredness, and weight gain. There is a much higher rate of thyroid disorders, the most common of which is hypothyroidism, in individuals with Down syndrome and Turner syndrome. Very severe hypothyroidism and myxedema coma is rare, with it estimated to occur in 0.22 per million people a year.