Cynthia L. James. Cynthia was born in Naples, Italy to a naval aviator and his wife. Her mother died when she was seven, leaving her father, a Highly Useful Male, with four young children. During an age when many fathers were absent on the home front, it was unusual to be raised in a single-father family
Dr. James has served over 2,000 congregations nationally providing support in the area of leadership development and congregational health. She is an international speaker, and author who has done extensive training in Finland, Estonia, South Africa, and numerous Caribbean Islands. Cynthia Rembert James has joined the pastoral staff of the Potter’s House Church in Dallas, Texas with hopes of providing further opportunities to enhance the believer’s passion for Spiritual Formation and Biblical Study.
Cynthia was also a foster parent for five years. She enjoyed playing Bingo at the Casino, playing Scrabble, traveling to the West Coast, her dog, Sam, and spending time with her family. Cynthia died at the age of 61 on Thursday, June 4, 2015, at the Marshalltown Medical and Surgical Center. She graduated from Downy High School in Downy, California in 1971, and from Pixie Beauty School in Waterloo. Cynthia worked for eight years at Bergen’s Diner in Traer before going to back to school to get her CNA certificate. She then worked at Sunrise Hill Care Center in Traer
Cynthia Coffman (born January 19, 1962) is an American woman convicted in the 1986 deaths of four women in California. She was convicted along with her boyfriend, James Marlow. Coffman admits to committing the murders, but insists she suffered from battered-woman syndrome. Coffman was the first woman to receive a death sentence in California since the reinstatement of the death penalty in that state in 1977. A further trial in 1992 convicted her of another murder, for which she received a sentence of life imprisonment. As of September 2014 she remains on death row.
Cynthia P James. Author Cynthia P. James is no stranger to the romance of life. Born, raised, and educated in England, she credits her father's encouragement in her writing endeavours as the motivating force in getting her to where she is now.Growing up; she was quiet, and thoughtful. Today, Cynthia remains a very private person, and is still just as passionate as ever about her writing.With a background in journalism and a love of the written word, Cynthia writes from the heart and soul of a woman, as only a woman can.
James W. Parker was born July 4, 1797 in northeast Georgia, probably in Franklin County, Georgia 1 or Elbert County, on July 4, 1797, the son of Elder John Parker (1758-1836) and Sally (White) Parker. He had twelve siblings, including younger brothers Silas Mercer Parker, and Benjamin Parker. Parker was working the fields when the attack happened. His daughter, Rachel Parker Plummer was captured along with her three-year-old son, James Pratt Plummer. His brother Silas's children, Cynthia Ann and John Richard were also captured, as well as his stepsister Elizabeth Duty Kellogg.
Cynthia Sneed was born in 1973. Cynthia currently lives in Sparks. Before that, she lived in Topaz, CA. Cynthia Sneed attended Sherman Indian High School in Riverside, CA and graduated class of 1991. There are 2 people searching for Cynthia Sneed, including 2 males and 0 female. 2015-05-05 21:29:46.0. I am thrilled to be your first personal review. I assume the best of everyone I first meet, and agree with Hemingway when he said The best way to find out if you can trust somebody is to trust them.. PLEASE ASK OTHERS TO REVIEW YOU-it is important.
Cynthia Bond was born on March 16, 1964 in the USA. She is an actress, known for Def by Temptation (1990), Higher Education (1994) and Higher Education (1994). See full bio ». 
No known carriers of Cynthia's ancestors' mitochondrial DNA have taken an mtDNA test and no close relatives have taken a 23andMe, AncestryDNA, or Family Tree DNA Family Finder test. 
Cynthia James. Cynthia Ann James was born on June 29, 1953, in Waterloo, the daughter of Allen and Wynona (Kinney) Johnston. She graduated from Downy High School in Downy, California in 1971, and from Pixie Beauty School in Waterloo. Cynthia worked for eight years at Bergen’s Diner in Traer before going to back to school to get her CNA certificate. She then worked at Sunrise Hill Care Center in Traer for five years.