1 The precise answer to the question “How long does cooked salmon last?” depends to a large extent on storage conditions — refrigerate salmon within two hours of cooking. 1 How long does cooked salmon last at room temperature? 2  Bacteria grow rapidly at temperatures between 40 °F and 140 °F; cooked salmon should be discarded if left for more than 2 hours at room temperature.
In the Refrigerator. Salmon can be kept fresh in your refrigerator for up to two days. As soon as you bring your salmon home, unwrap it and wipe it down with a damp towel then wrap it in plastic wrap and place it in the coldest area of your refrigerator. This is typically the back of the bottom drawer in the refrigerator. 2. Salmon can be kept fresh in your freezer for up to eight weeks. When you bring home your fresh salmon take it out of the packaging, rinse it off using cold water and pat it dry. Cut your salmon into the desired portions and store it in freezer wrap, foil, freezer bags or an airtight freezer friendly container.
Cooked salmon will stay good longer than raw salmon. You can keep cooked salmon in the refrigerator for about 5 days. Any longer than that and it will start to spoil. This food will keep for about 3 days in the refrigerator. Place the food in an air tight container for the best results. This food can easily be transferred to the freezer for … longer storage time.
You should put it into individual portion containers & freeze it as soon as possible. Cooked salmon will probably keep in the refrigerator for about 5-6 days. But don't wait until the last day to freeze it. It is easily thawed and reheated in the microwave. You may keep it in the freezer for 2-3 months. I got a couple half pound slamon fillets a couple of days ago, ate about three quarters and saved the rest of it in the fridge. How long is it good for? I just had salmon two times in three days so I want to give it a rest.
June 1, 2015 | By Rebecca Longshore | Comments (1). Whether you cooked up an amazing salmon recipe last night, or you’re bringing home a box from a restaurant that was just too much to finish in one sitting, you’re left with a portion of cooked salmon. The next day rolls around, and you have lunch and dinner plans
How long can you keep cooked salmon in the fridge? Cooked salmon can be kept in the refrigerator in a covered dish for  up to 4 days. Uncooked salmon should only be kept in the fridge for  2 to 3 days before cooking. Edit. This food will keep for about 3 days in the refrigerator. Place the food in an air tight container for the best results. This food can easily be transferred to the freezer for … longer storage time.
1. Salmon can be kept fresh in your refrigerator for up to two days. As soon as you bring your salmon home, unwrap it and wipe it down with a damp towel then wrap it in plastic wrap and place it in the coldest area of your refrigerator. This is typically the back of the bottom drawer in the refrigerator. 2. Salmon can be kept fresh in your freezer for up to eight weeks. When you bring home your fresh salmon take it out of the packaging, rinse it off using cold water and pat it dry. Cut your salmon into the desired portions and store it in freezer wrap, foil, freezer bags or an airtight freezer friendly container.