: the political, economic, and social principles and policies advocated by Marx; especially: a theory and practice of socialism including the labor theory of value, dialectical materialism, the class struggle, and dictatorship of the proletariat until the establishment of a classless society.
Karl Heinrich Marx (1818–1883) was a German philosopher, political economist, and journalist. Marx explored the idea that society and history are shaped by economic conflict, leading to the development of Marxism.
Karl Marx was a German philosopher, political economist, historian, political theorist, sociologist, communist, and revolutionary whose ideas are credited as the foundation of modern communism.
Definition of Marxism: Total control of means of production, including workers. The definition of Marxism describes the social, economic and governmental philosophy of Karl Marx, co-author of the Communist Manifesto.
Born in Prussia in 1818, Marx, in conjunction with Friedrich Engels, published The Communist Manifesto in 1848, which explains history as a class struggle between workers and owners of capital and sees a classless, communist society as an inevitable result of this struggle.
Marx's work laid the foundations for future communist leaders, such as Vladimir Lenin and Joseph Stalin, and for a political system that would take hold in countries including Russia, China, North Korea and Eastern Europe.
Communism is the strictly theoretical system imagined by Karl Marx in which all of society, all of economics and all politics are combined into one, perfect, classless, automatic, government-less system based on common ownership of all economic means of production, and social sameness.
Tweet. : the political, economic, and social theories of Karl Marx including the belief that the struggle between social classes is a major force in history and that there should eventually be a society in which there are no classes.
Karl Marx (1818–1883) is best known not as a philosopher but as a revolutionary communist, whose works inspired the foundation of many communist regimes in the twentieth century.
Karl Marx-founder of modern communism; wrote the Communist Manifesto with Engels in 1848; wrote Das Kapital in 1867 (1818-1883).