Ambrose appeared as a historian in the 1974 ITV television series, The World at War, which detailed the history of World War II. He served as the historical consultant for the movie Saving Private Ryan. Tom Hanks, who starred in the movie, said he pored over D-Day  and Band of Brothers in researching his role. Ambrose's earliest works concerned the Civil War. He wrote biographies of the generals Emory Upton and Henry Halleck, the first of which was based on his dissertation. Early in his career, Ambrose was mentored by World War II historian Forrest Pogue.
Band of Brothers is a dramatized account of Easy Company (part of the 2nd Battalion, 506th Parachute Infantry Regiment), assigned to the United States Army 's 101st Airborne Division during World War II. Since Band of Brothers focuses entirely on the exploits of E (Easy) Company during World War II, the series features a large ensemble cast. The show's main character is Lieutenant (later Captain and eventually Major) Richard Winters, played by Damian Lewis.
Ambrose won an Emmy as one of the producers for the mini-series Band of Brothers. Ambrose also received the George Marshall Award, the Abraham Lincoln Literary Award, the Bob Hope Award from the Congressional Medal of Honor Society, and the Will Rogers Memorial Award. Upon Ambrose's death, U.S. Sen. Ambrose's earliest works concerned the Civil War. He wrote biographies of the generals Emory Upton and Henry Halleck, the first of which was based on his dissertation. Early in his career, Ambrose was mentored by World War II historian Forrest Pogue.
Quick Quotes With the music for the HBO mini series Band of Brothers, composer Michael Kamen returns with one of his strongest and best scores in years, up there with the music for The Iron Giant and What Dreams May Come.. **** Andy Lindahl-Scorereviews Reviews Band of Brothers. 
Stephen Edward Ambrose (January 10, 1936 – October 13, 2002) was an American historian and biographer of U.S. Presidents Dwight D. Eisenhower and Richard Nixon. He was a longtime professor of history at the University of New Orleans and the author of many best selling volumes of American popular history. Ambrose's earliest works concerned the Civil War. He wrote biographies of the generals Emory Upton and Henry Halleck, the first of which was based on his dissertation. Early in his career, Ambrose was mentored by World War II historian Forrest Pogue.
Band of Brothers is a 2001 American war drama miniseries based on historian Stephen E. Ambrose 's 1993 non-fiction book of the same name. The executive producers were Steven Spielberg and Tom Hanks, who had collaborated on the 1998 World War II film Saving Private Ryan. The episodes first aired in 2001 on HBO. The series won Emmy and Golden Globe awards in 2001 for best miniseries. Since Band of Brothers focuses entirely on the exploits of E (Easy) Company during World War II, the series features a large ensemble cast. The show's main character is Lieutenant (later Captain and eventually Major) Richard Winters, played by Damian Lewis.
The Steven Spielberg and Tom Hanks-produced epic World War II television series Band of Brothers is based on a true story adapted from the best-selling book by Stephen Ambrose. The story depicts a. If you want something done right, DIY. The original poster of this Katherine Jenkins solo of Requiem for a Soldier for the BBC didn't post the lyrics as I suggested (so much for honoring Soldiers that you cannot lift a few fingers) so I decided to present the song correctly on our YOUTUBE channel here.
BAND OF BROTHERS is the history of Easy Company, 506th Parachute Infantry Regiment, 101st Airborne Division, from basic training to D-Day. It follows the jump into Holland, the Battle of the Bulge, and finally the occupation of Berchtesgaden and Austria. 
Band of Brothers is an acclaimed 10-part television miniseries (first aired in 2001) about World War II, co-produced by Steven Spielberg and Tom Hanks. Much of the action of the mini-series centers on the exploits of Easy Company of the 506th Parachute Infantry Regiment, U.S. 101st Airborne Division and one of its early platoon leaders, Richard Winters. It is based on a book of the same name written by historian and biographer Stephen Ambrose.