In pediatric patients, chest tube size varies with the size of the child. In patients older than 12 years, the chest tube size used is usually the same as that for adults. In smaller children, a 24- to 34-French chest tube should be used, depending on the size of the child. Attention should be given to the location of insertion on the chest wall and the intrathoracic position of the tube as seen on the chest radiograph. For maximum drainage, thoracostomy tube placement for hemothorax should ideally be in the sixth or seventh intercostal space at the posterior axillary line.
These 10 facts about space will blow your mind. A hemithorax is one side of the chest. The thorax is the medical term for the chest area, and hemithorax indicates only one half of the chest. The plural for this medical term is hemithoraxes or hemithoraces. This is the name for any condition that causes one hemithorax to show up dark on a radiology chart of the chest. Opaque hemithoraces can indicate pleural effusion (fluid filling the lungs), too.
In supine patients, signs of hemothorax may also be subtle on radiographic film, because the blood will layer in the pleural space, and can be seen as a haziness in one half of the thorax relative to the other side. When a hemothorax occurs, blood enters the pleural cavity, which normally only contains a small amount of pleural fluid. As blood builds up within the pleural cavity, it begins to interfere with the normal movement of the lungs, resulting in dypsnea, poor ventilation, and abnormal oxygenation.
A hemothorax (hemo- + thorax) (or haemothorax /Haemorrhagic pleural effusion) is a type of pleural effusion in which blood accumulates in the pleural cavity. When a hemothorax occurs, blood enters the pleural cavity, which normally only contains a small amount of pleural fluid. As blood builds up within the pleural cavity, it begins to interfere with the normal movement of the lungs, resulting in dypsnea, poor ventilation, and abnormal oxygenation.
Pneumonia causes something called hemithorax opacification. This is the name for any condition that causes one hemithorax to show up dark on a radiology chart of the chest. Opaque hemithoraces can indicate pleural effusion (fluid filling the lungs), too.
Pulmonary hemorrhage with capillaritis secondary to mycophenolate ... by Gorgan, Maria; Bockorny, Bruno; Lawlor, Michael; Volpe, John; Fiel-Gan, Mary / Archives of Pathology & Laboratory Medicine. 
Definitions: 1. One side of the thorax. The definition information for hemithorax is provided by Stedman's. You can search our medical dictionary here. Stedman's, part of Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, provides a comprehensive line of health-science publications for healthcare professionals and medical students
Complete white-out of a hemithorax on the chest x-ray has a limited number of causes. The differential diagnosis can be shortened further with one simple observation-the position of the trachea. 
Don't forget the back! The classic signs of a haemothorax are decreased chest expansion, dullness to percussion and reduced breath sounds in the affected hemithorax. There is no mediastinal or tracheal deviation unless there is a massive haemothorax. Haemothorax is a collection of blood in the pleural space and may be caused by blunt or penetrating trauma. Most haemothoraces are the result of rib fractures, lung parenchymal and minor venous injuries, and as such are self-limiting.