Germ layers [edit]. Gastrulation of a diploblast: The formation of germ layers from a (1) blastula to a (2) gastrula. Some of the ectoderm cells (orange) move inward forming the endoderm (red). Micrograph of a teratoma, a tumour that characteristically has tissue from all three germ layers. The image shows tissue derived from the mesoderm (immature cartilage-left-upper corner of image), endoderm (gastrointestinal glands-center-bottom of image) and ectoderm (epidermis-right of image). H&E stain.
Adult tissues are derived from embryonic tissues that develop from a fertilized egg called the zygote. Mitotic cell divisions create blastomeres (also known as stem cells) that migrate to various areas once the zygote morula enters the uterus. 
Reproduction can be defined as the process by which an organism continues its species. In the human reproductive process, two kinds of sex cells (gametes), are involved: the male gamete (sperm), and the female gamete (egg or ovum). These two gametes meet within the female's uterine tubes located one on each side of the upper pelvic cavity, and begin to create a new individual. Sexual reproduction cannot happen without the sexual organs called gonads. Both sexes have gonads: in females, the gonads are the ovaries. The female gonads produce female gametes (eggs); the male gonads produce male gametes (sperm). After an egg is fertilized by the sperm, the fertilized egg is called the zygote.
The fact is that all of those structures in all organisms are derived from a single cell that was formed by the union of two gametes. Every organism you see came originally from a single cell, which divided and differentiated to form more complex structures. 
Animals that undergo gastrulation will form two or three germ layers. Diploblastic animals have ectoderm and endoderm layers. Triploblastic animals have ectoderm, endoderm, and mesoderm layers. All of these embryonic tissue layers will develop into all the different tissues and structures found in an adult animal. The endoderm is the innermost germ layer and develops into internal structures. The mesoderm is the middle germ layer and forms most organ system
Additional Readings. Embryonic Development of the Reproductive System Reproductive The male and female reproductive systems follow a similar pattern of development, with sexual distinction coming about as a result of the influence of hormones. Early in fetal development (the tenth thought the twelfth week), sexual distinction of the external genitalia becomes apparent. In the male, the phallus enlarges and develops into the glans of the penis. The urethral folds fuse around the urethra and become the erectile tissue that forms the body
The male and female reproductive systems follow a similar pattern of development, with sexual distinction coming about as a result of the influence of hormones. As mentioned previously, the reproductive organs of both sexes derive from the same developmental tissue and are considered homologous. The first sign of development of reproductive organs (male or female) occurs during the fifth week with the formation of the gonadal ridge.
The three layers are the ectoderm, the mesoderm, and the endoderm. Hematopoietic stem cell —A stem cell that gives rise to all red and white blood cells and platelets. Human embryonic stem cell (hESC) —A type of pluripotent stem cell derived from the inner cell mass (ICM) of the blastocyst. The number of chromosomes remains the same in this type of cell division. Multipotent —Having the ability to develop into more than one cell type of the body. See also pluripotent and totipotent. Neural stem cell —A stem cell found in adult neural tissue that can give rise to neurons and glial (supporting) cells.
In the male embryo, each testis connects through a series of tubules to the mesonephric duct. During further development, the connecting tubules become the seminiferous tubules, and the mesonephric duct becomes the efferent ductules, epididymis, ductus deferens, ejaculatory duct, and the seminal vesicle. Early in fetal development (the tenth thought the twelfth week), sexual distinction of the external genitalia becomes apparent. In the male, the phallus enlarges and develops into the glans of the penis. The urethral folds fuse around the urethra and become the erectile tissue that forms the body