This is only for MTK Device only, if your device is not using the MTK Chips, this is not for you. To know if your device is an MTK device, head to play store, search and download CPU-Z. After installation, launch the app and you will see all your phones and hardware components models. You will see about 5 menu buttons at the top; SOC (System on Chips), System, Battery, Sensors and About menus. 
If you are searching to the Meaning of MTK phones then you have come to the right place at the right time because you will not only Know the meaning of MTK Phones, you will as well see the full Lists of MTK Android Phone Makers. MediaTeK is the leading mobile IC manufacturer, now you have known the meaning of MTK next is the names of those MTK mobile phone makers. Lists of MTK Android Phone Makers: The above is the main companies that manufacture MTK SMART MOBILE PHONES including the latest Innjoo one hd selling for 27k on jumia.
1 Now click download button. 2  Power off the device and remove battery (if battery is built in don't worry just continue). 3  Most new devices now require battery for flashing. 4  Connect the device to the computer with USB and wait for SP Flash Tool to detect it. 1 Connect the device to the computer with USB and wait for SP Flash Tool to detect it. 2  Hold volume down or volume up button and connect the device for easy detection. 3  Once phone is detected a red line will be seen at the bottom followed by a yellow line. 4  When flashing is completed, a green tick is shown on the screen.
HOW TO UNBRICK/FLASH MediaTek (MTK) DEVICES. Hello, I will be showing you how to flash or unbrick dead MediaTek (MTK) devices like Tecno, Gionee, infinix, THL etc. using SP Flash Tools. Just follow the steps below carefully and your phone will come back to life..... 1 Connect the device to the computer with USB and wait for SP Flash Tool to detect it. 2  Hold volume down or volume up button and connect the device for easy detection. 3  Once phone is detected a red line will be seen at the bottom followed by a yellow line. 4  When flashing is completed, a green tick is shown on the screen.
MediaTek Inc. is a fabless semiconductor company that provides system-on-chip solutions for wireless communications, HDTV, DVD and Blu-ray. Headquartered in Hsinchu, Taiwan, the company has 25 offices worldwide and was the 4th largest IC designer worldwide in 2013. MediaTek's financial results have been subject to variation as the financial success of different product lines fluctuated. MediaTek's relatively strong sales in 2009/2010 was based on its strong market position for feature phone chipsets.
1 Power off the device and remove battery (if battery is built in don't worry just continue). 2  Most new devices now require battery for flashing. 3  Connect the device to the computer with USB and wait for SP Flash Tool to detect it. 4  Hold volume down or volume up button and connect the device for easy detection. 1 Connect the device to the computer with USB and wait for SP Flash Tool to detect it. 2  Hold volume down or volume up button and connect the device for easy detection. 3  Once phone is detected a red line will be seen at the bottom followed by a yellow line. 4  When flashing is completed, a green tick is shown on the screen.
With the help of the engineering code or MobileUncleTools log in Engineering (MTK) mode device (EngineerMode → MTK). Once in the engineering menu phone to navigate to the tab Location and go in YGPS. On the tab  Satellites  should be red dots (that satellites), and below them (bottom) signal scales. What is Chinese GPS and how to fight it ... or why not working GPS on CN (and not only) devices The bulk of the owners of mobile devices brought from the capital city of China and not only faced with the problem of not working» GPS.
Automatically boot-up MTK devices (non-samsung) when docked. up vote 1 down vote favorite. 1. I'm developing a standalone kiosk using an android tablet(iBall running on 4.2.2).Its has the chinese MTK in it. However,when my tab was shutdown and docked it didnt boot-up,instead it was just stuck at the charging logo.When I replaced the above code with: my tab did boot-up when it was shutdown and docked.This means my code was getting stuck at '#!/system/bin/sh' .
Hi mizu, Gps is the most problem for mtk device. We only can do is to configure the sattelite settings just like the above guide, but if the above guide still xannotfix the problem then we cannot do anything, just calibrate the gps outside the door first then try to use again. Reply. What is Chinese GPS and how to fight it ... or why not working GPS on CN (and not only) devices The bulk of the owners of mobile devices brought from the capital city of China and not only faced with the problem of not working» GPS.
In seconds, you will learn exactly what type of MTK file you have, the software program associated with your file, the publisher who created it, its security safety status, and a variety of other useful information. Before you can open a MTK file, you'll need to figure out what kind of file the MTK file extension refers to. Tip: Incorrect MTK file association errors can be a symptom of other underlying issues within your Windows operating system.