Other calcium-rich food sources include: salmon, sardines (with bones), green beans, turnip greens. Additional magnesium-rich foods include: raw chocolate (raw cacao, the #1 source of magnesium), nuts and pumpkin seeds, molasses, spinach, baked potatoes, bananas, wheat germ and seafood. Stretch daily, before and after exercise. Maintain a well-balanced diet and eat foods high in calcium (such as milk and cheese), potassium (bananas and dates), and vitamin E (spinach and sweet potatoes). If you have a leg cramp, gently stretch and massage the muscle.
If the above tonic helps relieve your leg cramps, try to boost your potassium levels by eating more of these potassium-rich foods: apples, bananas, dried fruits, avocado, mushrooms, yogurt, kefir, spinach, tomatoes, mushrooms, baked potatoes and cantaloupe. Stretch daily, before and after exercise. Maintain a well-balanced diet and eat foods high in calcium (such as milk and cheese), potassium (bananas and dates), and vitamin E (spinach and sweet potatoes). If you have a leg cramp, gently stretch and massage the muscle.
#2: Wheat Germ. Wheat germ may be one of the best foods you can include in your diet if you suffer from menstrual cramps. It provides a concentrated source of vitamin B6 (pyridoxine), with a mere cup of crude wheat germ providing a whopping 75% of the recommended daily intake for this important vitamin!
Potassium-Rich Foods. According to the University of Maryland Medical Center, adults need 4,700 milligrams of potassium every day. Potassium is critical for proper nervous system and muscular function, which is why your muscles can cramp if you're deficient. Photo Credit blyjak/iStock/Getty Images. You could get leg cramps any time, though they are most likely to occur while you're working your leg muscles during exercise. Your muscles require more minerals when they're being used for physical exercise.
According to Enette Larson-Mayer, author of Vegetarian Sports Nutrition, muscle cramps occur when you are mineral deficient. Muscles require adequate amounts of sodium, potassium, calcium and magnesium in particular to function without cramping. To prevent leg cramps, consume plenty of foods rich in these minerals. Photo Credit blyjak/iStock/Getty Images. You could get leg cramps any time, though they are most likely to occur while you're working your leg muscles during exercise. Your muscles require more minerals when they're being used for physical exercise.
Cramping can be caused by a deficiency in potassium and/or magnesium. You could try having some apple cider vinegar, suggest you add it to some juice to disguise the taste. Mustard is also supposed to be good or your could drink tonic water, the quinine in it helps alleviate cramps. other times it is from urinating too much.. which removes electrolytes with the urine..I have to take Lasix for my CHF, and therefore have to take potassium pills to replenish what I lose.. some of you may have similar problems.. we do drink lots of water here.. which can lead to more trips to the bathroom..
Other calcium-rich food sources include: salmon, sardines (with bones), green beans, turnip greens. Additional magnesium-rich foods include: Plan ahead for self-care if your leg cramps primarily appear to be the result of strenuous exercise. Drink plenty of fluids and eat a well-balanced meal before heading out for a long run. Many athletes suggest eating a potassium-rich banana once you reach the finish line. Foods rich in magnesium, such as nuts, lentils, quinoa, raw chocolate (raw cacao, the #1 source of magnesium), nuts and pumpkin seeds, molasses, spinach, baked potatoes, bananas, wheat germ and seafood.
you need to replace electrolytes to ease cramping.. sometimes it is from dehydration.. other times it is from urinating too much.. which removes electrolytes with the urine..I have to take Lasix for my CHF, and therefore have to take potassium pills to replenish what I lose.. some of you may have similar problems.. we do drink lots of water here.. which can lead to more trips to the bathroom..
Bananas are great, but other often over looked foods are raisins, prunes, strawberries, citrus fruits, spinach, potatoes, soybeans, tomatoes, beans, fish, and even turkey (watch out for nitrate injections in turkey). other times it is from urinating too much.. which removes electrolytes with the urine..I have to take Lasix for my CHF, and therefore have to take potassium pills to replenish what I lose.. some of you may have similar problems.. we do drink lots of water here.. which can lead to more trips to the bathroom..
Bananas, melons, citrus fruits and avocados are potassium-dense fruits, while potatoes, sweet potatoes and winter squash are your go-to veggies for potassium. Photo Credit blyjak/iStock/Getty Images. You could get leg cramps any time, though they are most likely to occur while you're working your leg muscles during exercise. Your muscles require more minerals when they're being used for physical exercise.