One way to help your poached egg whites stay together is to remove some of the thin wispy egg whites before you add your eggs to the hot water. An easy way to do this is with a fine mesh sieve. 1 Place the raw egg into a fine mesh sieve over a bowl. The very thin egg whites will drain out through the sieve. 
For soft boiled eggs, turn off and cover right after it comes to a boil. Take off heat and let sit for about 5 minutes before draining them and adding cold water to stop the cooking. To hard cook eggs, after it comes to a full boil, let it cook for 10 minutes, then turn off heat and cover for 10 minutes. For a poached egg bring a pot of water to a boil, add a little white vinegar and some salt. Bring the water down to just a simmer. Crack the egg into a small bowl, lower the bowl to just above the water and pour into the pot. Allow the egg to cook for about 3 minutes, remove with a slotted spoon.
1. Select a suitable pan for poaching. The pan must be shallow and wide, as the trick to poaching well, without an egg poacher is to gently slip the egg into a wide, shallow pan filled with simmering water. The pan should be able to take about 1.5 liters (2 3/4 pints) of water, or 10cm (4) depth of water. 
Salt and pepper the egg as it cooks. Poaching with a soft yolk takes abour 5 minutes. To get the yolk cooked well, let egg cook 5 minutes and then break the yolk and cook another 3 minutes, or until the whole egg looks solid. To boil an egg, place cold eggs in a cold pan and add enough water to cover eggs by about an inch and still have at least an inch at the top of the pan. For a poached egg bring a pot of water to a boil, add a little white vinegar and some salt. Bring the water down to just a simmer. Crack the egg into a small bowl, lower the bowl to just above the water and pour into the pot. Allow the egg to cook for about 3 minutes, remove with a slotted spoon.
How long does it take to poach an egg? If the water is boiling before you add the egg and the egg is at room temperature, (i.e. not straight out of the fridge) then around 2.5 minutes.   3 minutes in softly boi … ling water. Let the eggs sit in the water for about 4 minutes. 6 people found this useful. fill a frying pan with 3-4 inches of water put over a high heat place in 1 tsp of sugar and 1 tsp of white vinager when the water is heated and steaming use a knife or spoon t … o create a whirlpool in the centre of the pan of water.
Once you've poached a million eggs, you can tell their level of doneness by just looking at them. But for the rest of the world, it works like this: Runny eggs take 2 minutes, medium take 3 minutes, and firm take 4 minutes. Mistake #8: You're Serving Soggy Eggs. Your eggs are now ready to eat, with one exception. 
Drop the egg bag into the hot water. Let cook approximately 2 to 4 minutes depending on how hot your water is and the size of the eggs. When done, take your eggs out of the water with a pair of tongs or a slotted spoon. Cut off the plastic wrap and serve. 
1 Make sure the water is at a bare simmer. 2  Cook for 4 minutes: The final cooking time for a poached egg is very much up to you, and it depends on how well you like your eggs done and how hot the water is. 3  But 4 minutes, give or take, in lightly simmering water, will give you a firm white and a gooey but still runny yolk. 1 Remove the egg: Use a slotted spoon to remove the egg from the water. 2  Pat the egg dry: This is optional as well, but I like to pat the egg dry lightly with a paper towel. 3  Season and eat! 4  Place the poached egg on a salad, piece of toast, or a plate and season to taste with salt and pepper.
Depending on how cooked you like your hard boiled eggs, the eggs should be done perfectly in 10-12 minutes. That said, depending on your altitude, the shape of the pan, the size of the eggs, the ratio of water to eggs, it can take a few minutes more. If you need easy-to-peel eggs and you have fresh eggs, you might want to try steaming the eggs for 15 minutes. Pour an inch of water into a pot and insert a steamer basket.Bring to a boil. Place the eggs in the steamer basket, cover and steam for 15 minutes (more or less, check!).
Skip this step if your eggs are very soft-boiled with runny yolks or if you're planning to dye your eggs for Easter. Place the eggs in a bowl of ice water. Fill a bowl with ice water. Transfer the eggs to the bowl and leave them there for at least 1 minute. 