But if she seems to go out of her way to be around you, takes every opportunity to talk to you, flirts openly with you, then it's a pretty good sign that she likes you. Girls that are just being friendly will say hi when they pass you in the hall, but have the attitude that they can take you or leave you. How do tell if a girl likes you, or is just friendly? There is this girl in my class and the first day I couldn’t stop checking her out.
b. Know-if-a-Girl-Likes-You. [{question:A girl laughing at your dorky joke could be a sign that she likes you.,answers:[True,False],correct:A,reason:When a girl laughs at your lame joke, it could be a sign that she's into you. However, it isn't a guarantee. 
1 So, flirt and if she responds well, tell her. 2  If you want to know if she likes you get a few people around you and ask them all who they like just so when it comes to asking the girl you like, it will seem natural that you're asking everyone. 1 Many people say you can tell if a girl likes you if she touches you a lot and that's true, but sometimes there isn't a real reason to touch. 2  So maybe she'll shyly find an excuse to stand next to you although she can really move over a little. 3  THE MAIN WAY TO TELL: She pays more attention to you than anyone else.
1 Do something nice like doing her a favor. 2  If she eventually tries to do something nice to you back, this might be a hint that she likes you. 3  If the girl of your dreams objects to your romantic advances, don't take it personally. 1 If she eventually tries to do something nice to you back, this might be a hint that she likes you. 2  If the girl of your dreams objects to your romantic advances, don't take it personally. 3  A good relationship starts with someone connecting well with you.
1 If she laughs at the things you say, even it isn't that funny, if she pays full attention to you when you talk to her. 2  I think letting a girl know you like her is always a good thing, but don't do it. 3  If she likes you, she'll tell you, but if not, she won't think you're weird, just... 4  odd. 1 Many people say you can tell if a girl likes you if she touches you a lot and that's true, but sometimes there isn't a real reason to touch. 2  So maybe she'll shyly find an excuse to stand next to you although she can really move over a little. 3  THE MAIN WAY TO TELL: She pays more attention to you than anyone else.
1 She calls you 'dude'. 2  A girl will NOT call you 'dude' if she wants to be your girlfriend. 3  It's just not a feminine phrase, and girls won't say it unless they're just talking to a friend. 4  She doesn't let you pay. 1 A girl will NOT call you 'dude' if she wants to be your girlfriend. 2  It's just not a feminine phrase, and girls won't say it unless they're just talking to a friend. 3  She doesn't let you pay. 4  When a guy pays for dinner, it's a date.
Look for these 10 signs she just wants to be friends so you will know how to approach the girl you like. 10 signs she just wants to be friends: 1  She tells you what a good friend you are. 2  If she frequently tells you, You're such a good friend, that is her subtle way of letting you know that that is ALL you are to her. 3  If she wanted you to be anything more, she wouldn't point out that you are a 'friend'. 1 A girl will NOT call you 'dude' if she wants to be your girlfriend. 2  It's just not a feminine phrase, and girls won't say it unless they're just talking to a friend. 3  She doesn't let you pay. 4  When a guy pays for dinner, it's a date.
What happened was you misread her signs. And it’s not your fault at all. Because the signs women give are super subtle and very hard to pick up on. That’s why I asked my new Wing Girl, Marissa, to tell you how to tell if she wants you vs. just wants to be friends. 
Report Abuse. If you touch her and she backs off, she likes you as a friend. If she still keeps the touch, she likes you :) Also, if she's nicer to you, acts different toward you, flirts with you, tries to talk to you a lot, and if she looks at you some, she likes you :). Source(s): I'm a girl. . How do tell if a girl likes you, or is just friendly? There is this girl in my class and the first day I couldn’t stop checking her out.
1 The ONLY time a girl gets sweaty around a guy is if they are just friends, or if they've been dating for a long time. 2  She calls you 'dude'. 3  A girl will NOT call you 'dude' if she wants to be your girlfriend. 4  It's just not a feminine phrase, and girls won't say it unless they're just talking to a friend. 1 A girl will NOT call you 'dude' if she wants to be your girlfriend. 2  It's just not a feminine phrase, and girls won't say it unless they're just talking to a friend. 3  She doesn't let you pay. 4  When a guy pays for dinner, it's a date.