Tarnish is a thin layer of corrosion that forms over copper, brass, silver, aluminum, magnesium and other similar metals as their outermost layer undergoes a chemical reaction.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. A metal tarnishes due to oxidation. It forms an oxide layer on the metal. eg: copper, when new it is shiny, but after a time outside, it goes green. This is due to oxidation and is called a tarnish.
Tip. 1  You can also use lemon and salt, or equal parts of flour, salt and vinegar to make a paste to clean brass. 2  For cleaning with lemon and salt, remove the seeds from a half lemon and coat it with salt.
An alloy of copper and zinc -- and sometimes other metals -- brass tarnishes quickly when exposed to air. To prevent the oxidization that leads to tarnish, manufacturers of brass lamps and other brass items often coat the lamp base in clear lacquer.
As brass hardware ages, its surface oxidizes, which leaves a layer of tarnish over the hardware. Over time, an additional protective layer, called a patina, forms over the untreated tarnished brass.
Tarnish does not always result from the sole effects of oxygen in the air. For example, silver needs hydrogen sulfide to tarnish, although it may tarnish with oxygen over time. It often appears as a dull, gray or black film or coating over metal. Tarnish is a surface phenomenon that is self-limiting, unlike rust. Only the top few layers of the metal react, and the layer of tarnish seals and protects the underlying layers from reacting.
Tarnish actually preserves the underlying metal in outdoor use, and in this form is called patina. The formation of patina is necessary in applications such as copper roofing, and outdoor copper, bronze, and brass statues and fittings. Patina is the name given to tarnish on copper based metals.
The tarnish, or patina, is caused by a chemical reaction between the various metals in the alloy, and acids or other corrosive materials. Acids in the skin can cause uneven tarnish from over-handling, and over time even dust will have leave an unattractive patina.