When syncing iPhone to a new computer, iPhone users need to move the contents in iTunes library to the new computer at first. It is not hard for the users to move the media files, ebooks and apps to new computer with a flash drive, and the users can easily sync the files to iTunes library. 
Syncing via Wi-Fi. To set up Wi-Fi syncing, open iTunes and connect your iPhone via USB. Click on the Device button in the upper-right corner. From the Summary tab, select Sync with this iPhone over Wi-Fi.. Configure the types of content you want to sync, and then click Apply to enable syncing via Wi-Fi. Syncing via USB cable. Open iTunes and connect your iPhone using the USB cable that came with the device. Click on the Device button located in the upper-right corner. Configure the types of content you want to sync, and then click Apply to sync your iPhone with your PC.
1 iTunes is open on the computer. 2  The iOS device and the computer are on the same Wi-Fi network. 3  When your device is connected with iTunes via Wi-Fi, you can select the device and then configure sync and other options. 4  Click Apply or Sync to sync the iOS device. Set up syncing. 1  Open iTunes. 2  Make sure that you have the latest version. 3  Connect your iOS device to your computer with the included USB cable. 4  Locate your iOS device. 5  If you're in the iTunes Store, click the Library button, then look for your device in the upper-right corner.
No, I said to create a backup on the new computer that way if data is ever lost a backup is there. You can't sync all the information from an iphone to a computer. You can move libraries, transfer purchases, create back ups, etc. but you can't really move all the data from the iphone to the computer. If the OP doesn't disable auto sync and connects to the new computer then the data on the iphone could be replaced
1 Click Erase and Sync only if you want to delete everything on your iPhone and sync with the content in the new computer's iTunes account. 2  Select Transfer Purchases if you want to combine the authorized purchases on your iPhone with the new computer's iTunes library. Step 4. Click Apply to sync your iPhone to the new computer. Step 5. Manually add content by dragging items from your iTunes library to your iPhone in the Devices section. Remove content by selecting your iPhone in the Device section and clicking the arrow to expand the list of subfolders.
The first step to sync the iPhone to computer is very simple: plug the cable that came with the iPhone into a USB port on your computer and the other end into the dock connector on the bottom of the iPhone. When you plug the cable in, your phone will begin to sync. The rest of the iPhone sync process happens in iTunes. On the left side of the screen are all the apps that you've downloaded to your computer's hard drive. Click the Install button to the left of an app to sync it to your iPhone. You can sort the list of apps by name, kind, category, date, and size.
To turn off automatic syncing, open iTunes and connect your iPhone to your PC. From the Device screen, open the Summary tab, select either the Manually manage music and videos or Manually manage music. option and click Apply. Syncing via USB cable. Open iTunes and connect your iPhone using the USB cable that came with the device. Click on the Device button located in the upper-right corner. Configure the types of content you want to sync, and then click Apply to sync your iPhone with your PC.
Step 3. Connect your iPhone to your computer and select Erase and Sync or Transfer Purchases (See Tips). Step 4. Wait for iTunes to finish syncing with your iPhone and then disconnect it from your computer. You can now use your iPhone with the new computer. Step 4. Click Apply to sync your iPhone to the new computer. Step 5. Manually add content by dragging items from your iTunes library to your iPhone in the Devices section. Remove content by selecting your iPhone in the Device section and clicking the arrow to expand the list of subfolders.
By far the easiest way to sync an iPhone to a new Mac or Windows PC is to transfer all iPhone files and backups from the old computer to the new one. The necessary data is stored in several different locations, and we’ll cover what files and where they go for both Mac OS X and Windows. To put it simply, because data is meant to go from the computer to the iPhone, not from the iPhone to a computer with iTunes. All of this is made a bit better for iCloud users, but you will still need these directories copied over before you can use Wi-Fi sync and sync flawlessly to a new machine without losing data.