The ascending aorta is the first part of the aorta, and begins at the aortic valve-located obliquely just to the left of the midline at the level of the the third intercostal space. 
Ascending and Aortic Arch Aneurysms. An ascending aortic aneurysm is a bulge in the portion of the aorta closest to the heart. The ascending aorta begins at the heart's left ventricle and extends to the aortic arch, or the bend in the aorta. The arch of the aorta gives off branches to the head and arms. Ascending and Aortic Arch Aneurysm Treatment. Aneurysms in the ascending aorta and aortic arch usually require immediate surgery. UPMC's Center for Thoracic Aortic Disease offers a full range of state-of-the-art treatment strategies for aortic aneurysms.
The other part of the descending aorta, the. Like other sections of the aorta (the ascending aorta and aortic arch), the descending aorta is an arbitrary anatomic entity. The aorta is one continuous conduit that stems from the left ventricle of the heart to carry blood to most of the body. Descending aorta: The descending aorta is the part of the aorta, the largest artery in the body, that runs down through the chest and the abdomen. The descending aorta starts after the arch of the aorta and ends by splitting into two great arteries (the common iliac arteries) that go to the legs
Ascending aorta: The first section of the aorta, which starts from the left ventricle of the heart and extends to the aortic arch. The right and left coronary arteries that supply blood to the heart muscle arise from the ascending aorta. 
All rights reserved. The aorta is the largest artery in the body. The aorta begins at the top of the left ventricle, the heart's muscular pumping chamber. The heart pumps blood from the left ventricle into the aorta through the aortic valve. Three leaflets on the aortic valve open and close with each heartbeat to allow one-way flow of blood. The aorta is a tube about a foot long and just over an inch in diameter. The aorta is divided into four sections:
Components [edit]. The aortic root is the portion of the ascending aorta beginning at the aortic annulus and extending to the sinotubular junction. Between each commissure of the aortic valve and opposite the cusps of the aortic valve, three small dilatations called the aortic sinuses. At the union of the ascending aorta with the aortic arch the caliber of the vessel is increased, owing to a bulging of its right wall. This dilatation is termed the bulb of the aorta, and on transverse section presents a somewhat oval figure.
An aortic aneurysm (say a-OR-tik AN-yuh-rih-zum) is a bulge in a section of the aorta, the body's main artery. The aorta carries oxygen-rich blood from the heart to the rest of the body. Because the section with the aneurysm is overstretched and weak, it can burst. Aneurysms can form in any section of the aorta, but they are most common in the belly area (abdominal aortic aneurysm). They can also happen in the upper body (thoracic aortic aneurysm). Thoracic aortic aneurysms are also known as ascending or descending aortic aneurysms.
More common causes of ascending aortic aneurysms are long-standing high blood pressure and smoking. Most patients with ascending aortic aneurysms do not have any symptoms. The most common symptom of an ascending aortic aneurysm is dull and vague chest pain. Some patients will have symptoms related to compression of other structures in the chest like the trachea or esophagus.