Vital organs such as heart and lungs are protected by the rib cage. Under the rib cage lie many organs that form a part of the abdomen. Most of the organs that lie in the abdominal region are a part of the digestive system. These include the liver, gallbladder, kidneys, pancreas, spleen, stomach, small intestine and the large intestine. 
The liver is located in the upper right corner of the abdomen. It is located just below the right lung and behind the ribs. The gall bladder, a sac-like organ that stores bile, is located under the liver. At the back are your kidneys. They are reddish bean-shaped organs, about the size of a child's fist, in the lower back near the twelfth rib.They sit within perirenal fat and renal fascia (connective tissue) that protect against injury
Split and merge into it. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. your lungs. on the right side your liver. on the left, your kidney and stomach. and sorta in the middle at the end of the rib cage is Duodenum (beginning) : beginning of the small intestine.
In this article. The spleen is a delicate, fist-sized organ under your left rib cage near your stomach. It contains special white blood cells that destroy bacteria and help your body fight infections. The spleen also makes red blood cells and helps remove, or filter, old ones from the body's circulation. 
1 Liver damage-Liver damage or infections and inflammation of the liver can cause pain under right rib cage. 2  Hepatitis is a resulting inflammation of the liver. 3  Hepatitis is caused by alcoholism and viral infections. Below are some of the possible illnesses and medical conditions that may cause pain under the rib cage. 1  Liver damage-Liver damage or infections and inflammation of the liver can cause pain under right rib cage. 2  Hepatitis is a resulting inflammation of the liver. 3  Hepatitis is caused by alcoholism and viral infections.
There many organs that located on the right side under the lower  ribs. The main organs include kidneys, intestines, liver,  gallbladder, liver and spleen. The only organs contained in the chest cavity are the lungs and the heart. Obviously, one of the lungs is under the left rib cage, and then the heart is also found here. The o … nly other part of the chest cavity to be noted would be the diaphragm, which aids a person's breathing. 4 people found this useful.
Get help from a doctor now ›. Organs under the rib: The main organs inder the ribs are the lungs, liver, spleen and partially in the back the kidneys ...Read more. 73,000 doctors available. Doctors are standing by 24/7 for advice, treatment or prescriptions. 
The only organs contained in the chest cavity are the lungs and the heart. Obviously, one of the lungs is under the left rib cage, and then the heart is also found here. The o … nly other part of the chest cavity to be noted would be the diaphragm, which aids a person's breathing. Making the world better, one answer at a time. your lungs. on the right side your liver. on the left, your kidney and stomach. and sorta in the middle at the end of the rib cage is Duodenum (beginning) : beginning of the small intestine.