At this time, it is not known what causes plaque psoriasis. What experts do know is there's a link between the immune system, genetics and plaque psoriasis. The majority of researchers conclude that with plaque psoriasis, the immune system is triggered in error. 
Psoriasis is a skin disease that causes scaly pink patches. Guttate psoriasis is a particular form of the disease that usually affects children and young adults. It can happen on its own, or as a complication of ordinary (chronic plaque) psoriasis. Often, it follows a bacterial throat infection or tonsillitis. About Psoriasis. Psoriasis is a chronic (long-lasting) skin disease of scaling and inflammation that affects greater than 3 percent of the U.S. population, or more than 5 million adults.
The cause of psoriasis isn't fully known, but it's thought to be related to an immune system problem with cells in your body. More specifically, one key cell is a type of white blood cell called a T lymphocyte or T cell. Psoriasis typically starts or worsens because of a trigger that you may be able to identify and avoid. Factors that may trigger psoriasis include: 1  Infections, such as strep throat or skin infections. 2  Injury to the skin, such as a cut or scrape, bug bite, or a severe sunburn.
Plaque psoriasis is a chronic immune disease. While the exact cause is unknown, psoriasis occurs when the immune system sends out faulty signals that speed up the growth cycle of skin cells. While normal skin cells mature and fall off the body within about a month, skin cells in psoriatic plaques mature rapidly and take only 3-4 days to surface. 
But in conditions like plaque psoriasis, your immune system is not working properly. It can make too much of several proteins, including one called tumor necrosis factor, or TNF. The extra TNF can contribute to skin cells growing too quickly, and causes them to build up. Plaque psoriasis is a lifelong condition that causes dry, thick, scaly, red skin. About 7.5 million adults in America have psoriasis. Plaque psoriasis is the most common form.
Unpredictable and irritating, psoriasis is one of the most baffling and persistent of skin disorders. It's characterized by skin cells that multiply up to 10 times faster than normal. As underlying cells reach the skin's surface and die, their sheer volume causes raised, red plaques covered with white scales. The symptoms of psoriasis vary depending on the type you have. Some common symptoms for plaque psoriasis -- the most common variety of the condition -- include: 1  Plaques of red skin, often covered with loose, silver-colored scales; these lesions may be itchy and painful, and they sometimes crack and bleed
Plaque Psoriasis. Plaque psoriasis is the most common form of the disease and appears as raised, red patches covered with a silvery white buildup of dead skin cells. These patches or plaques most often show up on the scalp, knees, elbows and lower back. They are often itchy and painful, and they can crack and bleed. While scientists do not know what exactly causes psoriasis, we do know that the immune system and genetics play major roles in its development. Usually, something triggers psoriasis to flare. The skin cells in people with psoriasis grow at an abnormally fast rate, which causes the buildup of psoriasis lesions.
Plaque Psoriasis Diagnosis. Usually dermatologists and most primary-care professionals are able to diagnose classical psoriasis on the basis of the appearance of the individual lesions, the tendency to form plaques, and the distribution of those plaques on the elbows, knees, and scalp. 