Submit. · just now. Report Abuse. The first amendment was part of the Bill of rights (10 amendments....pretty much the first and the other 9 were made to limit the powers of the federal government, and protects citizens and anyone living in US borders. Ten of the amendments were ratified and became the Bill of Rights in 1791. These amendments limit the powers of the federal government, protecting the rights of all citizens, residents and visitors on United States territory.
The First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, says that Congress shall make no law....abridging (limiting) the freedom of speech, or of the press.... Freedom of speech is the liberty to speak openly without fear of government restraint. 
This Amendment was created so that we would have the freedom to express ourselfs and not have to wrry about getting aressted. it just grants us to say what we got to say and just practice our own religion. This amendment was created so that we can have the freedom to do many things. like practice our own religion, to assemble with people and to have the right to speak freely and not have to worry about being aressted. with out it we wouldn't have the right to do all that stuff
The First Amendment provides that Congress make no law respecting an establishment of religion or prohibiting its free exercise. It protects freedom of speech, the press, assembly, and the right to petition the Government for a redress of grievances. James Madison introduced 12 amendments to the First Congress in 1789. Ten of these would go on to become what we now consider to be the Bill of Rights. One was never passed, while another dealing with Congressional salaries was not ratified until 1992, when it became the 27th Amendment.
About the First Amendment. Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press; or the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition the Government for a redress of grievances. Without the First Amendment, religious minorities could be persecuted, the government might well establish a national religion, protesters could be silenced, the press could not criticize government, and citizens could not mobilize for social change.
The First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution is also the first section of the Bill of Rights. It is arguably the most important part of the U.S. Constitution, as it guarantees freedoms of religion, speech, writing and publishing, peaceful assembly, and the freedom to raise grievances with the Government. Religious news. Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press; or the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition the government for a redress of grievances..
Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press; or the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition the Government for a redress of grievances. The establishment of religion clause of the First Amendment means at least this: Neither a state nor the Federal Government can set up a church. Neither can pass laws which aid one religion, aid all religions, or prefer one religion to another.
The Bill of Rights are the first ten amendments to the United States Constitution. They were introduced as a series of amendments in 1789 in the First United States Congress by James Madison. Ten of the amendments were ratified and became the Bill of Rights in 1791. These amendments limit the powers of the federal government, protecting the rights of all citizens, residents and visitors on United States territory.
First Amendment text:Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech, or of th … e press; or the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition the Government for a redress of grievances. This amendment was created so that we can have the freedom to do many things. like practice our own religion, to assemble with people and to have the right to speak freely and not have to worry about being aressted.