Scatter plots are similar to line graphs in that they use horizontal and vertical axes to plot data points. However, they have a very specific purpose. Scatter plots show how much one variable is affected by another. The relationship between two variables is called their correlation. Scatter plots usually consist of a large body of data. The closer the data points come when plotted to making a straight line, the higher the correlation between the two variables, or the stronger the relationship.
The data is displayed as a collection of points, each having the value of one variable determining the position on the horizontal axis and the value of the other variable determining the position on the vertical axis. This kind of plot is also called a scatter chart, scattergram, scatter diagram, or scatter graph. For a set of data variables (dimensions) X 1, X 2, ... , X k, the scatter plot matrix shows all the pairwise scatter plots of the variables on a single view with multiple scatterplots in a matrix format. For k variables, the scatterplot matrix will contain k rows and k columns.
Scatter plots are useful data visualization tools for illustrating a trend. Besides showing the extent of correlation, a scatter plot shows the sense of the correlation: 1  If the vertical (or y-axis) variable increases as the horizontal (or x-axis) variable increases, the correlation is positive. Scatter plots are important in statistics because they can show the extent of correlation, if any, between the values of observed quantities or phenomena (called variables). If no correlation exists between the variables, the points appear randomly scattered on the coordinate plane.
Scatter Plots. A Scatter (XY) Plot has points that show the relationship between two sets of data. In this example, each dot shows one person's weight versus their height. (The data is plotted on the graph as  Cartesian (x,y) Coordinates )
A scatter plot is a set of points plotted on a horizontal and vertical axes. Scatter plots are important in statistics because they can show the extent of correlation, if any, between the values of observed quantities or phenomena (called variables). If no correlation exists between the variables, the points appear randomly scattered on the coordinate plane.
1. The purpose of a scatter plot is to show the type of relationship, or correlation, that exists between two sets of data. a. For instance, a positive correlation means that as the value of one set of data increases, the other data will also increase
1 Scatterplot: A scatter graph or scatter plot is a type of display using variables for a set of data. 2  The data is displayed as a collection of points, each having the value of one variable determining the position on the horizontal axis and the value of the other variable determining the position on the vertical axis. 
A scatter plot, scatterplot, or scattergraph is a type of mathematical diagram using Cartesian coordinates to display values for typically two variables for a set of data. If the points are color-coded you can increase the number of displayed variables to three. For a set of data variables (dimensions) X 1, X 2, ... , X k, the scatter plot matrix shows all the pairwise scatter plots of the variables on a single view with multiple scatterplots in a matrix format. For k variables, the scatterplot matrix will contain k rows and k columns.