Pharisaic Laws. In contrast to the two commands of Christ, the Pharisees had developed a system of 613 laws, 365 negative commands and 248 positive laws... By the time Christ came it had produced a heartless, cold, and arrogant brand of righteousness. You are here. Home. In contrast to the two commands of Christ, the Pharisees had developed a system of 613 laws, 365 negative commands and 248 positive laws...
This is exactly what the Pharisees believed, and also it was these traditions that Jesus condemned. Josephus said several times that the Pharisees were experts in the interpretation of the Law (Josephus, Life, 38). Of the various sects the Pharisees were regarded as the most accurate interpreters of the laws (Josephus, War II. viii. 14) and also were known for their austerity of life (Josephus, Antiq. XIII. i. 3). Jesus and the Pharisees. The Pharisees were the most numerous and influential of the religious sects of Jesus day. The were strict legalists. They stood for the rigid observance of the letter and forms of the Law, and also for the Traditions.
Another conflict was cultural, between those who favored Hellenization (the Sadducees) and those who resisted it (the Pharisees). A third was juridico-religious, between those who emphasized the importance of the Second Temple with its rites and services, and those who emphasized the importance of other Mosaic Laws. The authors of the Gospels present Jesus as speaking harshly against some Pharisees (Josephus does claim that the Pharisees were the strictest observers of the law, but he likely meant most accurate). It is more accurate to say they were legalistic in a different way.
Their most important law People who believe in salvation-by-works can believe in a hierarchy of their laws. For the Pharisees, ritual holiness defined their religion, and the Sabbath, with its sedulous adherence to minutiae, defined their ritual holiness. 
The Pharisees. The most important of the three were the Pharisees because they are the spiritual fathers of modern Judaism. Their main distinguishing characteristic was a belief in an Oral Law that God gave to Moses at Sinai along with the Torah.
Josephus stated that the Pharisees were considered the most accurate interpreters of the Law. Their dedication to the Law was the heart of their faith; it overshadowed and explained the contempt they had for the people of the land. 
The Rules of the Pharisees. The Pharisees were are group of very zealous Jewish leaders who took their faith very seriously. They believed that the way they would please God and make it to Heaven was by meticulously following a long list of religious rules and regulations. So for the Pharisees, they not only tried to follow the 613 commandments of the Mosaic Law, but the literally thousands of new commandments that were created to clarify the original 613 commandments.
The loyalty of the Pharisees was to God's law and their concern was for personal holiness. During the time of Ezra and Nehemiah they contended for God's law of separation, especially in barring heathen from the rebuilt temple and opposing intermarriage with pagans. 
The Pharisees (/ˈfaerəˌsiːz/) ˈfærəˌsiːz were at various times a political, party a social, movement and a school of thought in The Holy land during the time Of Second Temple. judaism The authors of the Gospels present Jesus as speaking harshly against some Pharisees (Josephus does claim that the Pharisees were the strictest observers of the law, but he likely meant most accurate). It is more accurate to say they were legalistic in a different way.