J.D. degree programs usually take three years of full-time study to complete. The first year of law school typically focuses on general law courses, such as contracts, criminal law and legal writing. In the final years, students usually study a specialty, such as corporate or labor law. Some law schools may offer joint J.D./LL.M. degree programs, which take 1-1.5 years of study in addition to J.D. degree programs. The ABA does not accredit any legal education programs besides
Types of Law Degrees and Legal Studies Degrees. A law degree is required for individuals who wish to practice law in the United States. Three types of law degrees prepare individuals for work as a lawyer. These programs include Juris Doctor, Master of Laws and Doctor of Juridical Science. Three main types of law degrees are available in the United States. The first degree students can enroll in is a Juris Doctor degree program and can complete it after three years of full-time study.
Law Specialties. Once you finish law school, you will need to determine which type of lawyer you want to specialize in such as divorce, real estate or personal injury, as well as other types including criminal, civil and immigration. Law school gives you the basic foundation you need to study any type of law. You can also choose to be a general practice lawyer that works in a variety of law specialties. The bar exam covers a large range of topics pertaining to law.
Potential lawyers need Juris Doctor (J.D.) degrees to practice law. The education path typically takes a total of seven years to complete, including four years of undergraduate coursework and three years of law school. Some law schools may offer joint J.D./LL.M. degree programs, which take 1-1.5 years of study in addition to J.D. degree programs. The ABA does not accredit any legal education programs besides
You need a bachelor's degree (4 yrs) and a law degree (3 yrs). It may be helpful to take criminal law classes while in law school, but this is not usually required. The most important qualification to be a district attorney or an assistant district attorney is being licensed to practice law in your state. 
Admission to J.D. degree programs is generally competitive. All ABA-approved law schools require applicants to sit for the Law School Admission Test (LSAT). Along with LSAT scores, admission is determined by an applicant's education, work experience, propensity for law and general character. Some law schools may offer joint J.D./LL.M. degree programs, which take 1-1.5 years of study in addition to J.D. degree programs. The ABA does not accredit any legal education programs besides
Becoming a lawyer takes a total of seven years, and you must pass the bar exam. Every law school requires a four-year bachelor’s degree from a university or college, and law school takes another three years to complete. You should study English, government, history and public speaking. Law school gives you the basic foundation you need to study any type of law. You can also choose to be a general practice lawyer that works in a variety of law specialties. The bar exam covers a large range of topics pertaining to law.
Becoming an Attorney: How to become an Attorney. There is a pretty straightforward path to becoming a lawyer or attorney. You will need to complete a four-year degree program from an accredited university and then go to law school. 
If you're interested in becoming a law attorney, then you'll need about seven years of postsecondary education. To become an attorney, you must have a bachelor's degree, take the Law School Admission Test (LSAT), complete three years of law school and pass the written bar exam. Schools offering Juris Doctor degrees can also be found in these popular choices. Law attorneys, or lawyers, represent clients in legal disputes. Undergraduate Requirements. Individuals interested in working as law attorneys must earn a 4-year undergraduate degree in any subject, reports the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS). You need strong writing, speaking, reading and analytical skills in order to prepare for law school admission tests.