Methylene chloride is a well-known and widely used solvent in paint strippers Marketing of methylene chloride-based paint strippers has been banned in the European Union. 
Dichloromethane (DCM, or methylene chloride) is an organic compound with the formula C H 2 Cl 2. This colorless, volatile liquid with a moderately sweet aroma is widely used as a solvent. Although it is not miscible with water, it is miscible with many organic solvents. One of the most well-known applications of dichloromethane is in the drinking bird heat engine. The chemical compound's low boiling point allows the chemical to function in a heat engine that can extract mechanical energy from small temperature differences. An example of a DCM heat engine is the drinking bird. The toy works at room temperature.
Methylene chloride is a clear, non-flammable liquid with a sweet, pleasant odor. Its primarily used as paint remover, industrial solvent, and grain fumigant. In the home, methylene chloride may be an ingredient in paint removers and in fire extinguishers. The following symptoms may occur immediately or shortly after exposure to levels of methylene chloride at or above 300,000 ppbv in air: 1  Increased levels of carbon monoxide in the blood which may cause fatigue, shortness of breath or chest pain; 2  Drowsiness, headache, a feeling of being drunk, and.
1 Methylene chloride is also used as a propellant in aerosols for products such as paints, automotive products, and insect sprays. ( 2 1). 3  It is used as an extraction solvent for spice oleoresins, hops, and for the removal of caffeine from coffee. 1 (1, 4). 2  Methylene chloride is a colorless liquid with a sweetish odor. ( 3 1, 6). 4  The chemical formula for methylene chloride is CH 2 Cl 2, and the molecular weight is 84.93 g/mol. ( 5 1). 6  The vapor pressure for methylene chloride is 349 mm Hg at 20 °C, and it has an octanol/water coefficient (log K ow) of 1.30
• Paint and varnish remover: Methylene chloride is the most commonly used solvent in paint stripping, which accounts for 11% of European usage of this compound. It is a quick acting solvent for both wash-off and scrape-off formulations. For sensitive metals, methylene chloride is ideal because of its low boiling temperature. • Aerosols: Methylene chloride is an excellent solvent for most of the ingredients in aerosol formulations, an end-use that represents 4% of European usage of this product.
Uses. 1  Methylene chloride is predominantly used as a solvent in paint strippers and removers; as a process solvent in the manufacture of drugs, pharmaceuticals, and film coatings; as a metal cleaning and finishing solvent in electronics manufacturing; and as an agent in urethane foam blowing. ( 2 1). 1 (1, 4). 2  Methylene chloride is a colorless liquid with a sweetish odor. ( 3 1, 6). 4  The chemical formula for methylene chloride is CH 2 Cl 2, and the molecular weight is 84.93 g/mol. ( 5 1). 6  The vapor pressure for methylene chloride is 349 mm Hg at 20 °C, and it has an octanol/water coefficient (log K ow) of 1.30
1 Methylene chloride is predominantly used as a solvent for paint stripper, varnish removal, aerosol spray repellent and degreasing. 2  It is an effective solvent because of its highly volatility and stability. 3  Methylene chloride is also used in the processing of plastics, extracting fats and oils from food products. Methylene chloride (also known as dichloromethane) is an organic halogen compound with the molecular formula of CH 2 C l2. This product is a non-flammable liquid, having no measurable flashpoint or flammable limits in air.
Methylene chloride, also called dichloromethane, is a volatile, colorless liquid with a chloroform-like odor. Methylene chloride is used in various industrial processes, in many different industries including paint stripping, pharmaceutical manufacturing, paint remover manufacturing, and metal cleaning and degreasing. The most common means of exposure to methylene chloride is inhalation and skin exposure.
1 Methylene chloride is a colorless liquid with a sweetish odor. ( 2 1, 6). 3  The chemical formula for methylene chloride is CH 2 Cl 2, and the molecular weight is 84.93 g/mol. ( 4 1). 5  The vapor pressure for methylene chloride is 349 mm Hg at 20 °C, and it has an octanol/water coefficient (log K ow) of 1.30. 1 (1, 4). 2  Methylene chloride is a colorless liquid with a sweetish odor. ( 3 1, 6). 4  The chemical formula for methylene chloride is CH 2 Cl 2, and the molecular weight is 84.93 g/mol. ( 5 1). 6