Best Answer: If your fillings, sauce, and tortillas are warm when you put it in the oven, I go with 400F for about 20 minutes until the cheese on top has melted. If everything's room temp or cooler from the fridge, then I'd go with 350F for a good half hour to 40 minutes to make sure it's all heated through. Source(s): I usually bake enchiladas at 350 for anywhere from 15-25 minutes, depending on how golden brown they look on top.
Drizzle the remaining sauce on top of the rolled-up enchiladas. Spread the sauce around so you get a nice coating all along the top. At this point, you’re going to cover the dish with foil and bake for 30 minutes. Take the enchiladas out of the oven, remove the foil cover and sprinkle cheese on top. Put it back in the oven to melt all that cheese.
Method. 1 Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. 2 In a large frying pan at medium-high heat add a tablespoon of oil. When the oil is shimmering and hot (not quite smoking), add a corn tortilla to the pan. Cook it for 2-3 seconds, use a metal spatula to turn it over, and cook it for 2 to 3 seconds more. 
1 Roll even amounts of the mixture in the tortillas. 2  Arrange in a 9x13 inch baking dish. 3  Cover with taco sauce and 3/4 cup Cheddar cheese. 4  Bake uncovered in the preheated oven 20 minutes. 5  Cool 10 minutes before serving. 
3. Fry the tortillas. Place one tortilla in the pan. Cook it for 3 seconds, lift it with a spatula, and add another tortilla underneath it. Cook this one for 2-3 seconds, lift both tortillas again, and add another tortilla underneath. Repeat this process until you've cooked all of the tortillas, adding more oil if necessary. Fry 10 corn tortillas. Start by placing one tortilla in the pan. Cook it for 2-
Fold over filling, place 8 enchiladas in each pan with seam side down. Top with remaining enchilada sauce and cheese. Bake for 15 minutes in a preheated 350 degree F oven until cheese melts. Garnish with cilantro, scallion, sour cream and chopped tomatoes before serving. Serve with Spanish rice and beans. 
Step 5: Bake and serveMost enchiladas are baked covered with foil until heated through. Oven temperatures and baking times vary per recipe, but on average they cook in a 350°F oven for about 25 minutes. Sprinkle the cheese on top of the enchiladas after they are heated through. 