The use of enzymes in detergents. The use of enzymes in detergent formulations is now common in developed countries, with over half of all detergents presently available containing enzymes. 
Enzymes for Detergent. For most people, the most popular known application of enzymes is in the manufacture of enzymatic washing agents (detergents). Since last 40 years, the use of enzymes in detergents has been the largest of all enzyme applications. Consumers of detergents are actual users of an enzymatic product. 
Compare the effectiveness of the protease with your detergent. Also compare the cloth washed with your detergent with the other students' to see how effective your detergent is in cutting the stain. Simulate a warm (40ºC) and a cold (20ºC) wash cycle by repeating the above experiment at appropriate temperatures. (Note that all the temperatures can be run simultaneously.) Discussions An enzyme was first used to improve the effectiveness of a laundry detergent in 1913 by a German named Otto Roeohm, röohm the founder of the giant chemical Company rohm And. hass
Introduction In today's laundry detergents, enzymes such as proteases and amylases are some of the active ingredients. (Note that all the temperatures can be run simultaneously.) Discussions An enzyme was first used to improve the effectiveness of a laundry detergent in 1913 by a German named Otto Roeohm, röohm the founder of the giant chemical Company rohm And. hass
Therefore, although the specific enzymes present in various enzyme laundry detergent or stain removers may differ, here are some common ones that may be in your laundry supplies: 1  Amylase-works on starch stains. 2  Lipase-works on fatty and oily stains. 3  Protease-works on protein stains. Enzyme Presoaks And Certain Oxygen Bleaches. A very popular way to use enzyme laundry detergent is as a presoak. In such a situation you add detergent to water, and soak the stained clothing in the water for a while, to allow the enzymes to do their stain fighting job.
Fats and Oils. SEBrite LP – Powder. Concentrated, lipase enzyme used in laundry detergents and cleaning products, to remove fat and oil-containing stains, such as salad dressings, butter, lard, chocolate and lipstick. Today, these enzymes are staple ingredients in powder and liquid detergents, stain removers, laundry pre-spotters, automatic dishwashing detergents and industrial/medical cleaning products.
Alkaline/neutral bacterial protease enzyme used in laundry detergents and cleaning products to remove protein-containing stains such as grass, blood, mucus, feces and foods. Today, these enzymes are staple ingredients in powder and liquid detergents, stain removers, laundry pre-spotters, automatic dishwashing detergents and industrial/medical cleaning products.
Specific laundry soap brands have added enzymes that break down proteins, helping to remove them from the cloth fibers, thus removing stains and causing clothes to come out looking whiter. You may have even noticed infomercials for products that provide a “boosting power” of enzymes. The laundry has been piled up for days, the kids throw more on top every night, and you don’t have hours and hours to wash clothes. If you’ve purchased a laundry detergent that has enzymes in it, your clothes will come out looking cleaner and will take less effort to wash!
A biological detergent is a laundry detergent that contains enzymes harvested from micro-organisms such as bacteria adapted to live in hot springs. The description is commonly used in the United Kingdom, where other washing detergents are described as non-biological (or bio and non-bio). 
Introduction. Enzymes have been used to improve the cleaning efficiency of detergents for more than 35 years, and are now well accepted as ingredients in powder and liquid detergents, stain removers/laundry pre-spotters, automatic dishwashing detergents and industrial/institutional cleaning products. 