Jason Mewes is an American TV and film actor. His net worth is $5 million. He built this net worth from the films Scream 3 as well as Bottoms Up. He was born in June 12, 1974 in New Jersey. Jason grew up in working-class neighborhood. His mother was a drug addict and an ex-con. He never had an idea about his father. 
Kevin Smith net worth: $25 Million. Kevin Smith net worth and salary: Kevin Smith is an American screenwriter, actor, director, film producer, and comic book writer who has an estimated net worth of $25 million dollars. Kevin Smith was born in Red Bank, New Jersey in 1970.
About Kevin Smith. Kevin Smith’s net worth is estimated to be around $25 million. He first made a name for himself when he directed the 1994 comedy “Clerks” where he also played a character called Silent Bob. He is also the owner of a comic book store in New Jersey called “Jay and Silent Bob’s Secret Stash”. He has also produced and directed horror movie “Red State” starring John Goodman and Michael Parks and action comedy “Cop Out” starring Bruce Willis and Tracy Morgan
$5 Million. Jason Mewes net worth: Jason Mewes is an American actor and film producer who has a net worth of $5 million. Jason Edward Mewes was born in Highlands, New Jersey in June 1974. In high school he was best friends with future filmmaker Kevin Smith
Mewes starred in the horror film Breath of Hate, where he played a romantic love interest to a dysfunctional escort. Mewes co-starred in Smith's 2008 film Zack and Miri Make a Porno, in which Mewes, in a scene near the end of the film, appears fully nude. 1 Jason Mewes at the Internet Movie Database. 2  Interviews Askew: Jason Mewes (Interview from March 14, 1999).  3 Jay & Silent Bob Get Old Podcast Podcast with Smith and Mewes discussing Mewes and his addiction.
Jason Edward Mewes was born on June 12, 1974 in Highlands, New Jersey, and grew up in a working-class neighborhood. He never knew his father, and his mother was an ex-con and a drug addict. 1 Jason Mewes at the Internet Movie Database. 2  Interviews Askew: Jason Mewes (Interview from March 14, 1999).  3 Jay & Silent Bob Get Old Podcast Podcast with Smith and Mewes discussing Mewes and his addiction.