Ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID). This type of medication can cause ulcers, severe stomach bleeding or holes in the stomach or intestines.
Causes of stomach ulcers. Stomach ulcers are usually caused by Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) bacteria or non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). These can break down the stomach's defence against the acid it produces to digest food, allowing the stomach lining to become damaged and an ulcer to form.
1 Side effects and risks. 2  Aspirin can cause or aggravate ulcers. 3  If possible, people who have ulcers should avoid it. 4  Even at very low doses, aspirin can cause gastrointestinal symptoms, such as heartburn, upset stomach, or pain. 5  Coated or buffered aspirin does not decrease these risks.
1 Aspirin can cause or aggravate ulcers. 2  If possible, people who have ulcers should avoid it. 3  Even at very low doses, aspirin can cause gastrointestinal symptoms, such as heartburn, upset stomach, or pain. 4  Coated or buffered aspirin does not decrease these risks.
Jan. 4, 2002 -- Ulcers were once blamed on stress and spicy foods, but today doctors know that they are most often caused by two things -- a common gut bacteria known as Helicobacter pylori and long-term use of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as aspirin and Advil.
1 If possible, people who have ulcers should avoid it. 2  Even at very low doses, aspirin can cause gastrointestinal symptoms, such as heartburn, upset stomach, or pain. 3  Coated or buffered aspirin does not decrease these risks. 4  Over time, ulcers can cause swelling and a build-up of scar tissue.
​A peptic ulcer is a sore on the lining of your stomach or duodenum. People who take NSAIDs such as aspirin and ibuprofen long-term or are infected with the bacteria H. pylori are most likely to develop peptic ulcers.​. Symptoms and Causes of Peptic Ulcer Disease. ​A dull or burning pain in the stomach is the most common symptom of
Definition and Facts for Peptic Ulcer Disease. ​A peptic ulcer is a sore on the lining of your stomach or duodenum. People who take NSAIDs such as aspirin and ibuprofen long-term or are infected with the bacteria H. pylori are most likely to develop peptic ulcers.​. Symptoms and Causes of Peptic Ulcer Disease. ​A dull or burning pain in the stomach is the most common symptom of