Nabilone is a man-made form of cannabis (marijuana is an herbal form of cannabis). Nabilone causes many effects on your central nervous system. Nabilone is used to treat severe nausea and vomiting that is caused by cancer chemotherapy.
Nabilone is a man-made form of cannabis (also known as marijuana). Nabilone is used to treat severe nausea and vomiting caused by cancer chemotherapy. Nabilone is for use only when other medications have been unable to control the nausea and vomiting.
Nabilone comes as a capsule to take by mouth. It is usually taken with or without food two to three times a day during a cycle of chemotherapy. Treatment with nabilone should begin 1 to 3 hours before the first dose of chemotherapy and may be continued for up to 48 hours after the end of the chemotherapy cycle.
Before taking nabilone, tell your doctor if you have high blood pressure, heart disease, a history of mental illness or drug addiction, or if you are also using other medicines that can affect your central nervous system, such as a tranquilizer, sleep medicine, or anti-psychotic medications.
Nabilone is a man-made form of cannabis (also known as marijuana). Nabilone is used to treat severe nausea and vomiting caused by cancer chemotherapy. Nabilone is for use only when other medications have been unable to control the nausea and vomiting. Nabilone may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide. Follow all directions on your medicine label and package.
This medication is used to relieve severe nausea and vomiting caused by cancer chemotherapy. It is used when other drugs to control nausea and vomiting have not been successful. Nabilone is a man-made drug similar to the natural substances found in marijuana.
Nabilone comes as a capsule to take by mouth. It is usually taken with or without food two to three times a day during a cycle of chemotherapy. Treatment with nabilone should begin 1 to 3 hours before the first dose of chemotherapy and may be continued for up to 48 hours after the end of the chemotherapy cycle.