The bark sheds often, peeling in large strips. The broad juvenile leaves are borne in opposite pairs on square stems. They are about 6 to 15 cm long and covered with a blue-grey, waxy bloom, which is the origin of the common name blue gum. The mature leaves are narrow, sickle-shaped and dark shining green. They are arranged alternately on rounded stems and range from 15–35 cm (5.9–13.8 in) in length.
The Blue Gum tree, as it is sometimes known as, is called such due to a sticky gum-like substance that the tree secretes. This gum is very fragrant and contains anti-bacterial properties which make the tree extremely pest-resistant, as well as acting as a deterrent to the growth of other non-eucalyptus plants. The Tasmanian Blue Gum is rich in nectar and so are a good crop for bees and hummingbirds. They inhibit the growth of other vegetation and so create virtual monocultures of various eucalyptus trees, with the exception of a few hardy grasses.
Confusingly, in Queensland it usually refers to Eucalyptus tereticornis, which is known elsewhere as forest red gum. 1  Gippsland blue gum: Eucalyptus pseudoglobulus (syn. E. globulus subsp. pseudoglobulus). 2  Inland blue gum: E. leucoxylon. 3  Large-fruited blue gum: E. leucoxylon. 
The smooth, brown outer bark of the Blue Gum peels in large pieces to reveal large patches of bluish-white bark underneath, giving the tree a piebald appearance. The gray-green leaves grow in thick, smooth, and rounded and gradually stretch out to a sharp elliptic-shape. The Tasmanian Blue Gum is rich in nectar and so are a good crop for bees and hummingbirds. They inhibit the growth of other vegetation and so create virtual monocultures of various eucalyptus trees, with the exception of a few hardy grasses.
Large blue gum eucalyptus in Pleasanton, California, 46.5 m (153 ft) in height and 10.5 m (34 ft) in circumference. Blue gum is one of the most extensively planted eucalypts. Its rapid growth and adaptability to a range of conditions is responsible for its popularity. They are about 6 to 15 cm long and covered with a blue-grey, waxy bloom, which is the origin of the common name blue gum. The mature leaves are narrow, sickle-shaped and dark shining green. They are arranged alternately on rounded stems and range from 15–35 cm (5.9–13.8 in) in length.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Blue Gum: 1. A person of African American Heritage who has a purplish hew to the dental margins. 2.Usually refers to a lazy black American who refuses to work 2hand-yes some white people do have red necks. Yes, it is true that blue gum's do exist They are becoming harder to find now that interracial marriage / sex has become so widespread. If you happen to see one I will suggest you get a photo as they are endangered.
Blue line on gums: Introduction. Blue line on gums: Blue line on gums refers to a blue line that has developed on the gums. See detailed information below for a list of 2 causes of Blue line on gums, including diseases and drug side effect causes. » Review Causes of Blue line on gums: Causes. Of the 2 causes of Blue line on gums that we have listed, we have the following prevalence/incidence information: 1  0 causes are very common diseases. 2  0 causes are common diseases. 3  0 causes are un
Basisdaten. blue gum (Eucalyptus globulus) leaf. blue gum (Eucalyptus globulus) leaves. blue gum (Eucalyptus globulus) leaf position. blue gum (Eucalyptus globulus) crown. blue gum (Eucalyptus globulus) trunk / bark. description: The blue gum tree comes from Australia (Tasmania / Victoria). He is one of the largest of its kind and usually reached 35 m. There are also trees that are well over 50 m high. This tree is also grown in America's Pacific Coast, in Southern Europe (Spain / Portugal), New Zealand and in parts of Africa. 
The Tasmanian blue gum, southern blue gum or blue gum (Eucalyptus globulus) is an evergreen tree, one of the most widely cultivated trees native to Australia. They typically grow from 30–55 m (98–180 ft) tall. The tallest currently known specimen in Tasmania is 90.7 m (298 ft) tall. They are about 6 to 15 cm long and covered with a blue-grey, waxy bloom, which is the origin of the common name blue gum. The mature leaves are narrow, sickle-shaped and dark shining green. They are arranged alternately on rounded stems and range from 15–35 cm (5.9–13.8 in) in length.