House Members. There are 435 Members in the U.S. House of Representatives. The Members are divided among the 50 states. The number of Representatives given to each state is based on its population. The more citizens a state has, the more Representatives it receives. Each state is divided into districts based on the number of Representatives it receives. Each Representative serves one district. Some states, like California and New York, have lots of citizens and are divided into many district
In Congress, there are two houses. The House of Representatives and the Senate. In the House of Representatives states are represented by their population. And in the Senate s … tates are represented equally. The or ct compromise established that the house of representatives would be based on population and the senate would be based on equal reresentation?
Section 2. The House of Representatives shall be composed of Members chosen every second Year by the People of the several States, and the Electors in each State shall have the Qualifications requisite for Electors of the most numerous Branch of the State Legislature.
The number of representatives with full voting rights is 435, a number set by Public Law 62-5 on August 8, 1911, and in effect since 1913. The number of representatives per state is proportionate to population. Article 1, Section 2 of the Constitution provides for both the minimum and maximum sizes for the House of Representatives. The number of voting representatives in the House is fixed by law at no more than 435, proportionally representing the population of the 50 states.
In the U.S., the Constitution apportionment is made differently between the Senate and the House of Representatives. Each state is represented by two seats in the Senate. In the House of Representatives, seats are apportioned among the states based on the relative population of each state to the total population of the union. In order to conduct elections to state legislature and congress, each state is divided into two territorial units: 1  state legislative districts; and. 
— U.S. Constitution, Amendment XIV, section 2. The Constitution provides for proportional representation in the U.S. House of Representatives and the seats in the House are apportioned based on state population according to the constitutionally mandated Census. — U.S. Constitution, Article I, section 2, clause 3. “Representatives shall be apportioned among the several States according to their respective numbers, counting the whole number of persons in each State, excluding Indians not taxed.
The equal population standard for congressional districts, first enunciated by the Supreme Court in Wesberry v. Sanders, arises from Article I, Section 2, of the Constitution, “Representatives. . . shall be apportioned among the several states. . . according to their respective numbers. 
Yes, the amount of representatives a state gets in the House is based on the population of said state. The or ct compromise established that the house of representatives would be based on population and the senate would be based on equal reresentation?