How to convert the current date to text in Excel. In case you want to convert the current date to the text format, you can use the Excel TEXT function in combination with the TODAY function that returns the current date, for example: =TEXT(TODAY(), dd-mmm-yyyy). The result of this formula would show up as 08-Mar-2015.
1 Unless you use the Paste Special options, copying and pasting date-text cells will paste the formula, not the text. 2  To copy and paste the text values as you see them, copy the cell first and then click the cell where you want to paste it. 3  Press Ctrl-Alt-V to open the Paste Special dialog box.
The VALUE Function formula in cell G2 has converted the text string Date from cell E2, into a date serial number. =VALUE(E2). Until recently, I always used the VALUE Function to do this conversion. It’s something that’s well documented in the Function Arguments.
Where: 1  value is a numeric value you want to convert to text. 2  This can be a number, a formula that returns a numeric value, or a reference to a cell containing a number. 3  format_text this is how you want to format the resulting text value, provided as a text string enclosed in quotation marks.
Convert text dates by using the DATEVALUE function. To convert a text date in a cell to a serial number, you use the DATEVALUE function. Then you copy the formula, select the cells that contain the text dates, and use Paste Special to apply a date format to them.
You will have to put a bit more effort and use both the Text to Columns wizard and Excel DATE function. 1  Select all text strings to be converted to dates. 2  Click the Text to Columns button on the Data tab, Data Tools group. 3  On step 1 of the Convert Text to Columns Wizard, select Delimited and click Next.
1 In your Excel worksheet, select a column of text entries you want to convert to dates. 2  Switch to the Data tab, Data Tools group, and click Text to Columns. 3  In step 1 of the Convert Text to Columns Wizard, select Delimited and click Next. 4  In step 2 of the wizard, uncheck all delimiter boxes
Bonus Technique: Converting Dates to Text. If you want to convert excel dates to text values (for your report or some other purpose), you can use the TEXT formula like this: =TEXT(A1,DD-MMM-YYYY) will convert date in Cell A1 to DD-MMM-YYYY format. You can pass any other date / time formats to TEXT formula as well.