Common side effects of Victoza include headache, dizziness, nausea, vomiting, upset stomach, loss of appetite, diarrhea, constipation, cold symptoms (stuffy nose, sneezing, sinus pain, sore throat), back pain, tired feeling, skin rash, or redness or rash where the medicine was injected.
Victoza side effects can be life-threatening. The once-a-day injection for type 2 diabetes puts patients at a higher risk for developing pancreatic cancer and serious allergic reactions. If you or a loved one were diagnosed with pancreatic cancer believed to be caused by Victoza, contact attorneys at Watts Guerra.
Victoza is the brand name of the drug liraglutide, which is used to control blood sugar levels in people with type 2 diabetes. Type 2 diabetes is a condition that occurs when the body doesn't use insulin properly.
A: Victoza (liraglutide) (http://www.everydayhealth.com/drugs/victoza) is a diabetes medicine that controls blood sugar levels. Victoza is used to treat type 2 diabetes. Common side effects of Victoza include headache, upset stomach, nausea, diarrhea, and feeling tired.
Victoza-side effects. I have stopped taking the Victoza. It was like magic for me at first, too, so I was very disappointed when I could no longer tolerate it. After about a month and a half, the side effects of Victoza started to worsen.
Less serious side effects may include: 1  headache, dizziness; 2  upset stomach, loss of appetite; 3  nausea, vomiting; 4  diarrhea, constipation; 5  cold symptoms such as stuffy nose, sneezing, sinus pain, sore throat;
Some of the common side effects of Victoza include headache, upset stomach, nausea, diarrhea, and feeling tired. Other side effects may include dizziness, back pain, a mild skin rash and a rash and redness at the injection site. Victoza may cause hypoglycemia (low blood sugar).
Minor Side Effects of Victoza. Minor side effects of Victoza use may include constipation, diarrhea, decreased appetite, headache, dizziness, nausea, redness/swelling at the injection site, mild back pain, mild stomach pain, sinus problems, sore throat and mild vomiting.
Abrupt withdrawal of Victoza may lead to nausea and vomiting. Victoza (liraglutide [rDNA origin]) Side Effects Drug Center provides a comprehensive view of available drug information on the potential side effects when taking this medication. This is not a complete list of side effects and others may occur.