Blackfoot Indian Tribe. The Blackfoot Indian tribe actually consisted of the North Peigan, the South Peigan, the Kainai Nation, and the Siksika Nation. Only one of the tribes, the South Peigan, were located in North America. They lived in Montana while the three other tribes were located in Alberta, Canada. Like the Apache, the Blackfoot Indian tribe was known to be great warriors. Bands were social units of the Blackfoot that usually consists of between 80 and 240 people.
Answer by Clausenfan. Confidence votes 14.0K. Blackfoot are a branch of the Sioux Indians.They used to live in houses called tepees/tipi.Their tepees were different from those of other tribes because when the tepee was being built they would use 4 primary poles when setting it up while other tribes used 3 primary poles. The kind of houses that the Blackfoot tribe live in is a teepee. A teepee is made of three to four main poles and about 20 other poles for support. For the cover of the … teepee it took as few as 14 and as many as 42 buffalo hides sewn together with sinew
1 There are three tribes of Blackfeet: the Piegan, Siksika (Blackfeet), and Kainah (Blood). 2  In the Blackfeet Indian’s Creation Story, Old Man (Napi) created the world. 3  Blackfeet warriors called themselves “Lords of the Plains”. 4  The Blackfeet people were nomadic since they followed the buffalo, their main source of food. 
The Blackfoot Confederacy or Niitsitapi (ᖹᐟᒧᐧᒣᑯ, meaning original people) is the collective name of three First Nation band governments in the provinces of Saskatchewan, Alberta, and British Columbia. It is also a Native American tribe in Montana, United States. The Blackfoot nation is made up of four nations. These nations include the Piegan, Siksika, Northern Piegan, and Kainai or Blood Indians. The four nations come together to make up what is known as the Blackfoot Confederacy, meaning that they have banded together to help one another.
The Blackfoot Indians live in the Northwest corner of Montana now.   The Blackfeet held most of the immense territory stretching almost from North Saskatchewan river, Canad … a, to the southern head-streams of the Missouri River in Montana, and from about longitude 105° to the base of the Rocky mountains. 
The Niitsitapi, also known as the Blackfoot Indians, reside in the Great Plains of Montana and the Canadian provinces of Alberta and Saskatchewan. Only one of the Niitsitapi tribes are called Blackfoot or Siksika. The name is said to have come from the color of the peoples’ moccasins, made of leather. The Blackfoot nation is made up of four nations. These nations include the Piegan, Siksika, Northern Piegan, and Kainai or Blood Indians. The four nations come together to make up what is known as the Blackfoot Confederacy, meaning that they have banded together to help one another.
The nation of Blackfoot Indians actually consists of four different tribes: the Blackfoot/Siksika, Blood/Kainai, Pikuni/Peigan, and North Peigan Pikuni tribes. Situated mostly in the Northwest United States and in Canada after migrating from the Great Lakes region, the Blackfoot Indians have a rich history and culture. 
Blackfoot Indian Facts. The Blackfoot, who are also called Blackfeet, Indians were originally a nomadic American Indian tribe that migrated from the Great Lakes region to the Northwestern United States. They lived in the Northern Great Plains, specifically in Montana and Idaho as well as Alberta Canada. 