This average cost for food per month for one person was derived by taking an average of the estimated cost for food per month for a single male and single female in two age groups (19 - 50 and 51 - 70) and four different food-cost plans (thrifty to liberal), as shown in the chart below. For males, the average cost for food per month for one person is closer to three hundred twenty dollars ($320). You can view the raw data at USDA. If you want to perform your own calculations, remember that the data shown is for individuals in a four-person family.
For those two states, the average food cost per month for 1 person is $249.06 for Alaska and $365.52 for Hawaii. Note that each of these are for the thrifty plan, which is the only one published by the USDA for those two states. For females, the average food cost per month for 1 person is $283.28 For males, the average food cost per month for 1 person is $319.28. You can view the raw data at USDA. If you want to perform your own calculations, remember that the data shown is for individuals in a four-person family
According to the United States Department of Agriculture, Center for Nutrition Policy and Promotion, the average cost for food per month for one person in the United States is slightly over three hundred dollars ($300). For males, the average cost for food per month for one person is closer to three hundred twenty dollars ($320). You can view the raw data at USDA. If you want to perform your own calculations, remember that the data shown is for individuals in a four-person family.
The average food cost per month for 1 person varied from a low of $196.08 for a single female in the 51 - 70 age group on a thrifty plan to $447.84 for a single male in the 19 - 50 age group on a liberal plan. For females, the average food cost per month for 1 person is $283.28 For males, the average food cost per month for 1 person is $319.28. You can view the raw data at USDA. If you want to perform your own calculations, remember that the data shown is for individuals in a four-person family
If you shop around you can probably find an average monthly car insurance payment of $80 or less. Food. This is one of the easiest categories to blow. The average cost of food per month for one person isn’t much if you eat at home. But, if you eat out a lot $140 isn’t going to cut it. Eating at home is so much cheaper. That doesn’t meat you can’t ever go grab a burger, but limit it to a couple of times per month
For females, the average cost for food per month for one person is about two hundred eighty-three dollars ($283). For males, the average cost for food per month for one person is closer to three hundred twenty dollars ($320). You can view the raw data at USDA. If you want to perform your own calculations, remember that the data shown is for individuals in a four-person family.
Average Apartment Cost for a Single Person. Prices vary widely based on amenities provided, condition of the facility, and neighborhood. Costs shown are representative of a single student in a studio or one-bedroom unit in a medium-quality apartment building. For a single-bedroom apartment at $700 per month, estimate:
Answer: According to the United States Department of Agriculture, Center for Nutrition Policy and Promotion, the average food cost per month for 1 person in the United States is approximately three hundred one dollars ($301.00) for all categories combined. For females, the average food cost per month for 1 person is $283.28 For males, the average food cost per month for 1 person is $319.28. You can view the raw data at USDA. If you want to perform your own calculations, remember that the data shown is for individuals in a four-person family