The Dominguez family of Baguio City, Benguet and Mt. Province are a wealthy and influential dynasty of business owners, politicians, and philanthropists in the Philippines. They trace their origins to Sixto Pe, a Chinese merchant settled in the Philippines in the mid-18th century. 
The information for this chart came from the U.S. Immigration Collection at Ancestry. You can find out where the majority of the Dominguez families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. from the New York Passenger Lists. You can find out when most of the Dominguez families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival and destination. from the Social Security Death Index (SSDI).
Dominguez [domínguez] doˈmiŋɡeθ is a name Of spanish. Origin it used to mean son Of (domingo.i., e son Of). Dominic the surname is usually Written dominguez in The philippines And United. states Dominguez [domínguez] doˈmiŋɡeθ is a name Of spanish. Origin it used to mean son Of (domingo.i., e son Of). dominic
The first recorded spelling of the family name is shown to be that of Ambrosio Domingues, which was dated 1537, a christening witness at Chiclana, Cadiz, Spain, during the reign of King Charles 1 of Spain, 1516 - 1556. Surnames became necessary when governments introduced personal taxation. Surnames derived from given names are the oldest and most pervasive surname type, and in religious naming traditions (as distinct from vernacular), names were originally bestowed in honour of biblical characters, saints, and cult figures.
Dominguez at RootsWeb databases. Dominguez in RootsWeb surname mailing lists. Dominguez genealogy mailing list for correspondence and sharing of information pertaining to family histories of the Dominguez surname and its variations. Or check the index of mailing lists for a sound-alike name. Dominguez in Ancestry Message Boards. We have collected some of the best resources from across the web to do research on Dominguez history, Dominguez ancestory, and Dominguez family connections. If you are a Dominguez, or are realated to the Dominguez family we invite you to participate and exchange genealogical information.
Recorded in over two hundred and fifty spellings and found throughout the western world, this famous surname is of regarded as being of medieval Spanish origin. It derives from the Roman (Latin) Dominicus, meaning belonging to the lord god, from dominus, lord or master. The first recorded spelling of the family name is shown to be that of Dominicus de Buketon, which was dated 1326, in the register of England known as The fines Roll, during the reign of King Edward 11, known as Edward of Caernafon, 1307 - 1327. Surnames became necessary when governments introduced personal taxation.
Dominguez [domínguez] doˈmiŋɡeθ is a name Of spanish. Origin it used to mean son Of (domingo.i., e son Of). Dominic the surname is usually Written dominguez in The philippines And United. States people with the surname: include Dominguez [domínguez] doˈmiŋɡeθ is a name Of spanish. Origin it used to mean son Of (domingo.i., e son Of). dominic
Recordings of the surname from Spanish Church Registers include: the birth of Fernando Dominguez at Jerez de la Fronterna, Cadiz, in 1544, and the marriage of Blas Dominguez to Catalina de Balbuena at Santa Maria Magdalena, Valladolid, on January 17th 1584. Surnames derived from given names are the oldest and most pervasive surname type, and in religious naming traditions (as distinct from vernacular), names were originally bestowed in honour of biblical characters, saints, and cult figures.