Today's video technology is moving away from analog (VGA) in favor of digital connection formats (HDMI, DVI, DisplayPort). However, there are still certain situations in which users need change between the display technologies; usually due to differing ports on a computer and a display. It allows a display device with a VGA connector (input) to receive an analog signal from either a DVI-A (analog only) or DVI-I (analog and digital) connector attached to a computer's GPU.
Geoffrey Morrison/CNET. With televisions, HDMI is the most common connector. But if you want to connect a computer to your TV (or you've got a new computer monitor), the options tend to be HDMI, DisplayPort, DVI, and sometimes old-school VGA.
Best Answer: Converting HDMI to VGA will require the use of a special converter, because an HDMI signal is purely digital whereas a VGA signal is purely analog. These converters can run a bit expensive and the cheaper ones may not give you a very good picture quality. I have a computer with an hdmi port, and a monitor with a vga port. Is it possible to convert it, and which is the most cheapest but best quality way.
For example, DVI and HDMI are generally convertible using a simple adapter. Some DisplayPort connections will also work with DVI and HDMI with an adapter, but not all. Native resolution. All modern televisions will convert the incoming signal to whatever their native resolution is. For most TVs, this is 1,920x1,080 pixels. Geoffrey Morrison/CNET. With televisions, HDMI is the most common connector. But if you want to connect a computer to your TV (or you've got a new computer monitor), the options tend to be HDMI, DisplayPort, DVI, and sometimes old-school VGA.
DVI to VGA. The DVI-to-VGA adapter can either be a cable or a small device (shown above). It allows a display device with a VGA connector (input) to receive an analog signal from either a DVI-A (analog only) or DVI-I (analog and digital) connector attached to a computer's GPU. The converters are inexpensive and can be found occasional packaged with video cards or at many online retailers for under $5
In this video, Brandon Wirtz shares his knowledge on how HDMI and DVI compare and connect with VGA. If you're under the assumption that VGA is inferior to digital in all cases, you might find his answer surprising. http://chris.pirillo.com. 
For example, DVI and HDMI are generally convertible using a simple adapter. Some DisplayPort connections will also work with DVI and HDMI with an adapter, but not all. Native resolution. All modern televisions will convert the incoming signal to whatever their native resolution is. For most TVs, this is 1,920x1,080 pixels. But if you want to connect a computer to your TV (or you've got a new computer monitor), the options tend to be HDMI, DisplayPort, DVI, and sometimes old-school VGA.
HDMI is really best for connecting a PC to an HDTV. Consequently, I'd go with a DVI cable. That'll give you a pure digital signal (VGA is analog) and a much sharper picture at higher resolutions. Your Dell ST2210 has a native resolution of 1,920 x 1,080, which you can and should use. Although the monitor includes VGA, DVI, and HDMI inputs, it included only a VGA cable--even though the setup instructions recommend a DVI or HDMI connection! Mike wants to know why, and whether he should bother buying a different cable.