Cook the yolk for 20 to 30 seconds per yolk. Remove the bowl containing white and put in the yolk. Still on medium or low power if the option is available, cook the bowl of egg yolk for about 20 to 30 seconds per yolk. If cooking more than one yolk, stop every 30 seconds to check on progress.
Carefully put bowl in the microwave oven, then cook on HIGH power for 3 - 6 minutes, according to how you like your eggs. After 30 seconds cooking, the water will return to a gentle boil, and cook the eggs, as they do conventionally.
Let the egg stand for two or three minutes. Microwaves heat up the fat in the egg much hotter than a pot of boiling water does. This heat will continue to cook the egg after it is removed. If part of the egg isn't hard enough after three minutes, cook it for another 10 to 20 seconds.
How to Poach an Egg in the Microwave. 1  In a small microwave-safe dish, such as a custard cup, combine 1/3 cup water, 1/4 teaspoon vinegar, and a pinch of salt. 2  Gently crack one large egg into the water mixture and cover the dish with plastic wrap, a lid, or a small plate. 3  Place the covered dish in a microwave oven.
NOTE: For 4 eggs, use 2/3 cup water in 1-quart bowl or baking dish. Cook 1 1/2 to 3 minutes and let stand as above. Microwave Scrambled Eggs: In a 10-ounce custard cup, beat together 2 eggs, and 2 tablespoons milk with salt and pepper to taste, if desired, until blended.
3 minutes will cook the eggs to soft boil stage and 5 - 6 minutes (according to their size) will cook to a hard boil. Remove dish from the oven, and quickly run cold water over the eggs, for 1 minute or so.
Break and slip in two eggs. Stir yolks with fork. Cover each container with plastic wrap. Cook separately on 50% or 30% power, stirring once or twice, allowing about 20 to 30 seconds per yolk, about 30 seconds to 1 minute per white.
Boil water alone in the microwave. Put enough water to submerge the eggs into a microwave safe bowl, leaving at least 1 inch (2.5 cm) clearance at the top. Heat for at least three minutes, or however long it takes for the water to begin to boil. Heating the water in advance reduces the risk of exploding the shell, although a few cracks may still occur.