Diabetes-related causes of Degenerative joint changes. Our information shows that 1 causes of Degenerative joint changes are related to diabetes, or a family history of diabetes (from a list of 16 total causes). a doctor would ask. Our information shows that 1 causes of Degenerative joint changes are related to diabetes, or a family history of diabetes (from a list of 16 total causes).
Medical Definition of DEGENERATIVE DISEASE. : a disease (as arteriosclerosis, diabetes mellitus, or osteoarthritis) characterized by progressive degenerative changes in tissue. 2 ENTRIES FOUND: 1  degenerative disease (noun). 2  degenerative joint disease (noun). : a disease (as arteriosclerosis, diabetes mellitus, or osteoarthritis) characterized by progressive degenerative changes in tissue. 2 ENTRIES FOUND: 1  degenerative disease (noun)
The most frequent kind of diabetes is diabetes mellitus, a chronic degenerative disease caused when the pancreas either fails to produce a protein hormone called insulin or the body's cells are resistant to the action of insulin. 
Diabetes is a condition which is signified by a higher concentration of glucose levels in the blood because person cannot utilize glucose due to deficiency of insulin secretion by the pancreas of the body. Types of Diabetes: Diabetes is found in the pregnant women also, if it is not treated properly the mother and child can also develop many health disorders. Diabetes Symptoms: Diabetes is characterized by: 1. Feeling of exhaustion all the times. 2.
These diseases and conditions may be more likely causes of Degenerative joint changes if the patient has diabetes, is at risk of diabetes, or has a family history of diabetes. a doctor would ask. Our information shows that 1 causes of Degenerative joint changes are related to diabetes, or a family history of diabetes (from a list of 16 total causes).
RESULTS: The prevalence of diabetes mellitus in the three groups (spinal stenosis, osteoporotic fracture, degenerative disk disease) was 28%, 6.5% and 12.1%, respectively, revealing a significantly higher prevalence in the spinal stenosis group compared with the others (P=0.001). Diabetes mellitus as a risk factor for the development of lumbar spinal stenosis. Anekstein Y(1), Smorgick Y, Lotan R, Agar G, Shalmon E, Floman Y, Mirovsky Y. Author information: (1)Spine Unit, Assaf Harofeh Medical Center, Zerifin, and Sackler Faculty of Medicine, Tel Aviv University, Ramat Aviv, Israel.
A possible association of diabetes mellitus and lumbar spinal stenosis has been raised. OBJECTIVES: To compare the prevalence of diabetes mellitus in patients with spinal stenosis, degenerative disk disease or osteoporotic vertebral fractures. Diabetes mellitus as a risk factor for the development of lumbar spinal stenosis. Anekstein Y(1), Smorgick Y, Lotan R, Agar G, Shalmon E, Floman Y, Mirovsky Y. Author information: (1)Spine Unit, Assaf Harofeh Medical Center, Zerifin, and Sackler Faculty of Medicine, Tel Aviv University, Ramat Aviv, Israel.