As you might think, bacterial infections are caused by bacteria, and viral infections are caused by viruses. Perhaps the most important distinction between bacteria and viruses is that antibiotic drugs usually kill bacteria, but they aren't effective against viruses. Viruses. Viruses are even smaller than bacteria and require living hosts — such as people, plants or animals — to multiply. Otherwise, they can't survive. When a virus enters your body, it invades some of your cells and takes over the cell machinery, redirecting it to produce the virus.
These phages also require a bacterial host in order to replicate themselves. Bacterial viruses, as these are also often called, are made up of proteins that coat an inner core of nucleic acid – either DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid) or RNA (ribonucleic acid). Unlike the previous investigators, d’Herelle hérelle was certain that the unknown substance he had discovered was a virus that was able to parasitize. Bacteria he called it “a-bacteria” eater “or”, bacteriophage from the word bacteria and The greek “word” phagein which means to eat or. devour
Bacteriophage (phage) are obligate intracellular parasites that multiply inside bacteria by making use of some or all of the host biosynthetic machinery (i.e., viruses that infect bacteria.). There are many similarities between bacteriophages and animal cell viruses. 
BACTERIOPHAGES Bacteriophages are viruses which infect bacteria. PHAGE (a s in phagocytosis) m eans toeat, and generally refers to a virus. Most bacteria have phages that are able to parasitizethem. 
In order to infect a host cell, the bacteriophage attaches itself to the bacteria’s cell wall, specifically on a receptor found on the bacteria’s surface. Once it becomes tightly bound to the cell, the bacterial virus injects its genetic material (its nucleic acid) into the host cell. Unlike the previous investigators, d’Herelle hérelle was certain that the unknown substance he had discovered was a virus that was able to parasitize. Bacteria he called it “a-bacteria” eater “or”, bacteriophage from the word bacteria and The greek “word” phagein which means to eat or. devour
Bacteria, viruses, and parasites can cause a wide variety of illnesses, and can infect any of the organs of the body. Viruses are often responsible for respiratory illnesses (such as the common cold) and digestive illnesses (such as diarrhea). Viruses, bacteria, and parasites that invade the digestive tract usually cause diarrhea. Large amounts of water are lost with the diarrhea, leading to dehydration in children. Children become dehydrated much quicker than adults, and this can lead to serious problems if fluids are not replaced.
1. bacteriophage-a virus that is parasitic (reproduces itself) in bacteria; phage uses the bacterium's machinery and energy to produce more phage until the bacterium is destroyed and phage is released to invade surrounding bacteria. phage.
© Sridhar Rao P.N (www.microrao.com) BACTERIOPHAGE Bacteriophages are viruses that parasitize bacteria. Bacteriophages were jointly discovered by Frederick Twort (1915) in England and by Felix d'Herelle (1917) at the Pasteur Institute in France. Felix d'Herelle coined the term “Bacteriophage”. Phages attach to specific receptors on the bacterial cell such as proteins on the outer surface of the bacterium, LPS, pili, and lipoprotein. This process is reversible. One or more of the components of the base plate mediates irreversible binding of phage to a bacterium.
Marine bacteriophages or marine phages are viruses that live as obligate parasitic agents in marine bacteria such as cyanobacteria. Their existence was discovered through electron microscopy and epifluorescence microscopy of ecological water samples, and later through metagenomic sampling of uncultured viral samples. 
Bacterial viruses are specific to one or a limited number of bacteria; thus, they are named after the bacteria group, strain, or species that they infect. For example, the phages that infect the bacterium Escherichia coli are called coliphages. Unlike the previous investigators, d’Herelle hérelle was certain that the unknown substance he had discovered was a virus that was able to parasitize. Bacteria he called it “a-bacteria” eater “or”, bacteriophage from the word bacteria and The greek “word” phagein which means to eat or. devour