The two-seat Smart Fortwo is one of the smallest cars on the market, but according to reviewers, it has a surprising amount of cabin space. They say that tall adults will have plenty of head-and legroom. Visibility is also good, but only in the coupe model. Other Cars to Consider. The Scion iQ is more expensive than the Smart Fortwo, but it has a lot more standard features including an upscale stereo, Bluetooth and 11 airbags, which is more than what the Fortwo offers. Though the iQ has four seats, reviewers don’t recommend sitting anyone in the back seats.
Australia: The Smart Fortwo has been marketed through select Mercedes-Benz dealers in Australia since 2003 in only the middle 'Pulse' range, and with the petrol engine. As of April 16, 2007 the base price for the Fortwo coupe coupé Is$ 19,900, 19900 and for The fortwo cabriolet is22,900. 22900 The Smart Fortwo is a rear-engine, rear-wheel-drive, 2-seater, 2-door hatchback city car manufactured and marketed by the Smart division of Daimler AG, introduced in 1998, now in its third generation.
I recently spent a week driving the 2013 Smart coupe. I loved driving it. I had a ton of fun zipping around Manhattan and Brooklyn. But I wouldn't buy one. Why I Loved It. I've been intrigued by Smart since my approximately 12-year-old mind was blown on a trip to Paris by the first one I ever saw. Watch the 2013 Smart coupe in action below: Why I Wouldn't Buy One. To be clear, I'm not saying I don't want a Smart: If I found one outside my apartment with a bow on it, I would be thrilled. But two very important things bothered me: The price and the fuel economy. The Smart coupe starts at $12,490, but the model I drove cost $19,490. In comparison, a 2013 Nissan Sentra — a perfectly fine car with room for five people — starts at $15,590. The Smart I drove was comfortable, but hardly loaded with features
Smart Cars History. smart car prices start around $12,000, making the base smart car model affordable for just about everyone. Smart cars are known for their unique size and shape but also offer the functionality of fitting into even the smallest of parking spots. Check our price report to find a great smart car price. In 1993 Daimler-Benz AG (makers of Mercedes Benz) partnered with SMH (makers of the Swatch brand of watches) to create a funky city car that would be engineered by Daimler and designed by Swatch. * The prices displayed on this page may be the Estimated TrueCar Dealer Price, the Target Price, or the Manufacturer's Suggested Retail Price (MSRP). Please proceed to the Price Report to see which price is being displayed and the definition of that price.
2015 smart fortwo Overview. Price Range: $13,270 to $17,930. Your Price: Ask Us. New/Notable: As recognizable today as the day it debuted, the tiny 2015 smart fortwo takes urban transportation to a new, smaller level. The two-door fortwo carries over sans substantive changes for the new model year.
Smart's ForTwo microcar has been around these parts since it debuted as a 2008 model, and it's seen few changes since then. Next year... 
When the Smart Fortwo debuted in 2008, America's smallest car garnered an instant following as buyers flocked to this 2-seater for its low price, good fuel economy, and the sheer Euro-chic factor it brought to our shores. The years since have not been so kind to Smart, a subsidiary of Mercedes-Benz. 
­With gas prices at historic highs in the United States and fuel-efficient cars in vogue, the time might be perfect for DaimlerChrysler to introduce the Smart Car to U.S. markets. Already popular in Europe, the Smart Car is small in stature but big on economy. The updated Smart Fortwo (named because it's for two people) is ready for release in 2008, so we could be seeing a lot more Smart Cars on the road in the near future.