How to incubate fertile bearded dragon eggs. Dig all the eggs out of the lay bin making sure you get them all, be thorough! Don't worry, it's OKAY to turn them, they haven't started developing yet! However, do not turn them after 1 week and do not handle before 4 or 5 weeks.
Female bearded dragons generally will lay their first clutch around a year old. They can lay infertile eggs as young as 10 months old. Not all bearded dragons lay eggs, and there is no way to tell which ones will and which one won't. The first thing you need to do if you suspect your dragon is gravid is to increase her calcium supplementation. Instead of giving the calcium 3 days a week, you should give it 5 days a week.
If she was around a male dragon, they are most likely fertile and you have to decide if you want to hatch them or not. First, you must provide a place for her to dig and lay her eggs. Bearded dragons like to tunnell and need at least 5 to 6 inches of sand to dig in.
Most bearded dragons lay their eggs in the afternoon or early evening, and if possible, place the female into the lay box during this time of day. Regardless of when or for how long the female remains in the box, every effort should be made to maintain the chamber around 80 degrees.
Bearded dragons tend to lay eggs around 4 to 6 weeks after a successful mating, and the eggs can hatch anything between 50 to 100 days plus after laying. You will need to keep the hatchlings for at least 8 weeks after hatching, and maybe longer if it's difficult to find new homes for them all.
Some female bearded dragons will lay infertile eggs. Infertile eggs are eggs that have not been fertilized by a male and therefore will not hatch out into baby bearded dragons. The signs of a dragon being gravid are the same, whether the eggs are fertile or infertile.
Below are excerpts on egg laying and incubation in bearded dragons (BDs or beardies) that I and others have written on the Pogona list, an internet discussion list dedicated to the topic of bearded dragons (Pogona vitticeps).
Typically, bearded dragon eggs will take between 50 and 80 days to hatch, with 2 months being average. 24 to 48 hours prior to hatching, the eggs may begin to deflate. This should not be confused with a symptom of insufficient humidity. Rather, this is a signal to the keeper that hatching is imminent.