Registered Nurse: Responsibilities. Registered nurses may choose a specialty based upon the type of treatment administered and thus narrow their scope of job duties. For example, an RN can choose to work solely with patients who have substance abuse problems or those with cancer or HIV/AIDS. Although medical duties of RNs vary greatly depending upon the specialty or area in which they work, all RNs offer emotional support and advice to patients and their families. Registered nurses obtain an associate's or bachelor's degree in nursing.
RNs perform a wide variety of job duties during their shifts, caring for and educating patients about their conditions, as well as establishing trust and building rapport with patients and their families. Same daily RN duties might include: 1  Working with a variety of patients, from pediatric to geriatric, or specializing in one of numerous possible areas such as neo-natal intensive care, cardiac care, neurologic care or dermatology. 2  Observing and recording patient behavior. The profession of nursing is becoming increasingly complex as patient care is moving out of hospitals and into outpatient and primary care settings. For years, the role of nurses has been evolving from a bedside caregiver to a specialized member of an interdisciplinary medical team.
The Role of the Registered Nurse in the Management of Rheumatic Disease. The Registered Nurse (RN) is to provide health care to individuals, families, and communities. They provide services designed to promote health, prevent illness, and achieve optimal recovery from or adaptation to health problems.
Registered Nurses, or RN's. Registered nurses hold the highest nursing position in nursing homes, as they oversee the activities of the rest of the nursing staff. Instead of just focusing on the immediate needs of patients, RNs are responsible for overseeing each patient's overall health and medical histories. The primary job of a nurse working in a nursing home is to care for the needs of elderly patients. At a basic level, nurses make sure patients maintain acceptable levels of personal hygiene, have clean beds and receive proper nutrition.
Nursing Duties. Registered nurses often work in hospitals or outpatient facilities, where they provide hands-on care to patients by administering medications, managing intravenous lines, observing and monitoring patients' conditions, maintaining records and communicating with doctors.
Registered nurses set up plans for patient care. Registered nurses (RNs) provide and coordinate patient care, educate patients and the public about various health conditions, and provide advice and emotional support to patients and their family members. 
A registered nurse (RN) is a nurse who has graduated from a nursing program and met the requirements outlined by a country or state licensing body in order to obtain a nursing license. An RN's scope of practice is determined by local legislation governing nurses, and usually regulated by a professional body or council. 
Duties and Responsibilities of an RN. Here is the list of the duties and responsibilities of a registered nurse. 1  Observing and recording patients’ behaviour. 2  Coordinating with physicians and other healthcare professionals for creating and evaluating customized care plans. Registered nurse duties vary as per the areas of their expertise. They play a key role in promoting the wellness by performing a wide range of services.
by S.L. Page. Duties of a Registered Nurse in a hospital or nursing home entail many things. Registered Nurses (RNs) are responsible for a wide variety of care provided to patients. Not only are they responsible for taking care of patients but they must delegate to CNAs and supervise Licensed Practical Nurses (LPNs). 
An RN's duties are often shaped by which specialty area he or she works in. Staff nurses at hospitals make up the largest group of RNs. These nurses provide bedside patient care and are generally assigned to one specific area in the hospital, such as: 1  Maternity. 2  Pediatrics. 3  Intensive care (ICU). 4  Emergency room (ER). Although medical duties of RNs vary greatly depending upon the specialty or area in which they work, all RNs offer emotional support and advice to patients and their families. Registered nurses obtain an associate's or bachelor's degree in nursing.