Bilirubin is a yellow pigment that is in everyone’s blood and stool. If you notice a yellowing of your skin or the whites of your eyes, this is called jaundice, and it may be caused by high levels of bilirubin. Bilirubin is made in the body when old red blood cells are broken down. The breakdown of old cells is a normal, healthy process. After circulating in your blood, bilirubin then travels to your liver. In the liver, bilirubin is excreted into the bile duct and stored in your gall bladder. If bilirubin is not being attached to sugars (conjugated) in the liver and/or is not being adequately removed from the blood, it can mean that there is damage to your liver. Testing for bilirubin in the blood is therefore a good test of
Bilirubin testing checks for levels of bilirubin in your blood. Bilirubin (bil-ih-ROO-bin) is an orange-yellow substance made during the normal breakdown of red blood cells. Bilirubin passes through the liver and is eventually excreted out of the body. 
When bilirubin levels are high, the skin and whites of the eyes may appear yellow (jaundice). Jaundice may be caused by liver disease (hepatitis), blood disorders (hemolytic anemia), or blockage of the tubes (bile ducts) that allow bile to pass from the liver to the small intestine. A bilirubin test measures the amount of bilirubin in a blood sample. Bilirubin is a brownish yellow substance found in bile. It is produced when the liver breaks down old red blood cells. Bilirubin is then removed from the body through the stool (feces) and gives stool its normal color
Bilirubin (formerly referred to as haematoidin) is the yellow breakdown product of normal heme catabolism, caused by the body's clearance of aged red blood cells which contain hemoglobin. Bilirubin is excreted in bile and urine, and elevated levels may indicate certain diseases. Hyperbilirubinemia results from a higher-than-normal level of bilirubin in the blood. For adults, this is any level above 170 μmol/l and for newborns 340 µmol/l and critical hyperbilirubinemia 425 µmol/l. Mild rises in bilirubin may be caused by: 1  Hemolysis or increased breakdown of red blood cells.
In order to analyze of the bilirubin levels in adults are normal or not, the doctor will need to look at the values of all three, direct bilirubin, indirect bilirubin and total bilirubin. Given below is the normal bilirubin range in adults: 1  Direct bilirubin: 0.1 mg/ dl to 0.3 mg/ dl (1.7 mmol/ l to 5.1 mmol/ l). The normal levels for bilirubin in children are completely different, as compared to the bilirubin levels in adults. Hence, in case of babies and infants, instead of referring to a bilirubin chart for adults, doctors should use a chart for babies.
In a newborn, higher bilirubin is normal due to the stress of birth. Normal bilirubin in a newborn would be under 5 mg/dL, but up to 60 percent of newborns have some kind of jaundice and bilirubin levels above 5 mg/dL. If bilirubin is not being attached to sugars (conjugated) in the liver and/or is not being adequately removed from the blood, it can mean that there is damage to your liver. Testing for bilirubin in the blood is therefore a good test of
Higher than normal levels of direct bilirubin in your blood may indicate your liver isn't clearing bilirubin properly. Elevated levels of indirect bilirubin may indicate other problems. One common, and harmless, cause of elevated bilirubin is Gilbert's syndrome, a deficiency in an enzyme that helps break down bilirubin. Normal results for a bilirubin test are 1.2 milligrams per deciliter (mg/dL) of total bilirubin for adults, and usually 1 mg/dL for those under 18.
A bilirubin test is used to detect an increased level in the blood. It may be used to help determine the cause of jaundice and/or help diagnose conditions such as liver disease, hemolytic anemia, and blockage of the bile ducts. 
Bilirubin test results are expressed as direct, indirect or total bilirubin. Total is a combination of direct and indirect bilirubin. Typically, you'll get results for direct and total bilirubin. Normal results for a bilirubin test are 1.2 milligrams per deciliter (mg/dL) of total bilirubin for adults, and usually 1 mg/dL for those under 18. Normal results for direct bilirubin are generally 0.3 mg/dL. These results may vary slightly from laboratory to laboratory