Children may present with a mixed picture of marasmus and kwashiorkor, and children may present with milder forms of malnutrition. For this reason, Jelliffe suggested the term protein-calorie (energy) malnutrition to include both entities. The term kwashiorkor is taken from the Ga language of Ghana and means the sickness of the weaning.. Williams first used the term in 1933, and it refers to an inadequate protein intake with reasonable caloric (energy) intake.
kwashiorkor is severe protein and moderate energy deficiency while marasmus is severe protein and severe energy deficiency kwashiorkor symptoms-EDEMA, fatty liver, growth impairment, bloated belly marasmus symptoms-wasting of muscle, skin & bones appearance, severe growth impairment, premature aging/wrinkling. 
Definition/Description. Kwashiorkor is a form of protein-energy malnutrition (PEM) that occurs when there is not enough protein in the diet. 1, 2. 4,5. The condition of kwashiorkor in children was first described in 1932. Kwashiorkor, in African dialect, means desposed child (deposed from the mother's breast by a newborn sibling) and red boy due to the reddish orange discoloration of the hair that is a characteristic of the disease.
The term protein-energy malnutrition (PEM) applies to a group of related disorders that include marasmus, kwashiorkor (see the images below), and intermediate states of marasmus-kwashiorkor. The term marasmus is derived from the Greek word marasmos, which means withering or wasting. The term kwashiorkor is taken from the Ga language of Ghana and means the sickness of the weaning.. Williams first used the term in 1933, and it refers to an inadequate protein intake with reasonable caloric (energy) intake.
Kwashiorkor. Photo by: poco_bw. The term kwashiorkor, meaning the disease of the displaced child in the language of Ga, was first defined in the 1930s in Ghana. Kwashiorkor is one of the more severe forms of protein malnutrition and is caused by inadequate protein intake. It is, therefore, a macronutrient deficiency. 
Breast milk contains proteins and amino acids vital to a child's growth. In at-risk populations, kwashiorkor may develop after a mother weans her child from breast milk, replacing it with a diet high in carbohydrates, especially sugar, but deficient in protein. Generally, the disease can be treated by adding protein to the diet; however, it can have a long-term impact on a child's physical and mental development, and in severe cases may lead to death. In dry climates, marasmus is the more frequent disease associated with malnutrition.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Kwashiorkor /kwɑːʃiˈɔrkər/ is a form of severe protein–energy malnutrition characterized by edema, irritability, anorexia, ulcerating dermatoses, and an enlarged liver with fatty infiltrates. Sufficient calorie intake, but with insufficient protein consumption, distinguishes it from marasmus. Generally, the disease can be treated by adding protein to the diet; however, it can have a long-term impact on a child's physical and mental development, and in severe cases may lead to death. In dry climates, marasmus is the more frequent disease associated with malnutrition.
Protein deficiency, energy deficiency, and the oedema of malnutrition. Golden MH. The role of dietary protein deficiency in kwashiorkor is uncertain, although it has been shown not to be involved in the famine oedema of adults. The accessory ingredients must be low in foods associated with human and experimental nutritional oedema. It is suggested that protein deficiency is not the cause of the oedema of kwashiorkor and that there is no need to postulate a different pathogenesis for this oedema from starvation oedema of adults.