This species is known for the ability to jump long distances. These ants are large. Workers and males are approximately the same size: 12 to 14 millimetres (0.47 to 0.55 in) for workers, and 11 to 12 millimetres (0.43 to 0.47 in) for males. Based on observations of six worker ants, the average life expectancy of the jack jumper is around 1.3 years, but workers were shown to live as little as 1.12 years or as long as 1.6, with the queen living much longer than the workers at 10 years or more.
By Brett Williamson. With colonies through areas of the Adelaide Hills, South East, Kangaroo Island and parts of the southern Fleurieu and Eyre Peninsula, the Jumping Jack ant is an aggressive, territorial ant that provides a nasty surprise for unsuspecting passersby. 1  Print page. The 12mm long ant is able to leap distances up to 10cm, and due to its highly aggressive nature will quite often launch towards its unsuspecting victim to deliver a painful sting. The Jumping Jacks target by sight, instead of scent like other biting ants.
Allergic reactions to the Jack Jumper ant (also known as the Jumper Ant, Hopper Ant) are a uniquely Australian problem, although other species such as the Green Ant of Queensland, and introduced South American Fire Ant also cause occasional allergic reactions. The Jack Jumper ant most frequently associated with allergic reactions is commonly known as the Jack Jumper ant, Jack Jumper or Jumping Jack. Jack Jumper ants have a black body and orange/brown jaws/pincers and limbs.
For more, visit http://science.discovery.com/tv/monst... | A hungry Green-Bellied Huntsman Spider is hungry, and waiting for a kill. But a pack of tiny Jumping Jack Ants have a paralyzing sting that allows them to take on this deadly spider.
The jack jumper ant (Myrmecia pilosula), commonly known as the hopper ant, jumper ant or jumping jack, is a species of venomous ant native to Australia. Based on observations of six worker ants, the average life expectancy of the jack jumper is around 1.3 years, but workers were shown to live as little as 1.12 years or as long as 1.6, with the queen living much longer than the workers at 10 years or more.
Introduction. Most ants can't jump, however, a few species have the abiltiy to jump. Indias Harpegnathos saltator, also known as ' Jerdons jumping ant' , can jump up to 18cm which helps it catch prey. Australias Myrmecia sp, also known as ' bull ants' , ' jack jumpers ' or ' hopper ants ' can jump too.
Workers are gamergates, allowing them to reproduce with drones, whether or not a queen is present in the colony. The ant is a part of the Myrmecia pilosula species complex; this ant and other members of the complex are known to have a single pair of chromosomes. Based on observations of six worker ants, the average life expectancy of the jack jumper is around 1.3 years, but workers were shown to live as little as 1.12 years or as long as 1.6, with the queen living much longer than the workers at 10 years or more.
Bull Dog ants are large, around 15-25 mm long, whereas Jack Jumper ants are generally 10 to 15mm long and often display jerky, jumping movements. Jack Jumper Ants are also known as Hopper Ants or Skipper Ants in South Australia. The Jack Jumper ant most frequently associated with allergic reactions is commonly known as the Jack Jumper ant, Jack Jumper or Jumping Jack. Jack Jumper ants have a black body and orange/brown jaws/pincers and limbs.