Soba /ˈsoʊbə/ (そば or 蕎麦) is the Japanese name for buckwheat. It is synonymous with a type of thin noodle made from buckwheat flour, and in Japan can refer to any thin noodle (unlike thick wheat noodles, known as udon). Soba noodles are served either chilled with a dipping sauce, or in hot broth as a noodle soup. In Okinawa, soba usually refers to Okinawa soba, a completely different dish of noodles made out of flour, not buckwheat. Okinawa soba is also quite popular in the city of Campo Grande (Brazil), due to influence of Japanese (Okinawan) immigrants.
In Japan, soba noodles are served in a variety of settings: they are a popular inexpensive fast food at railway stations throughout Japan, but are also served by expensive specialty restaurants. Markets sell dried noodles and men-tsuyu, or instant noodle broth, to make home preparation easy. In Okinawa, soba usually refers to Okinawa soba, a completely different dish of noodles made out of flour, not buckwheat. Okinawa soba is also quite popular in the city of Campo Grande (Brazil), due to influence of Japanese (Okinawan) immigrants.
Japanese soba noodles are traditionally made with entirely buckwheat flour. Since buckwheat contains no gluten, 100% buckwheat dough has a limited elasticity and can be difficult to work with. 
The exceptions are rice noodles and cellophane noodles, which are so thin and tender that they only need to be soaked in hot water until soft. Soba-These noodles are made from buckwheat flour and have a correspondingly strong, nutty flavor. Many buckwheat noodles also have some wheat flour in them, which means they're not gluten-free. However, pure buckwheat soba can be found — it's stronger in flavor and really delicious, and of course, gluten-free. 
Soba is a Japanese noodle traditionally made with 100% buckwheat flour — this kind of all-buckwheat soba is called juwari soba. However, since the buckwheat seed contains no gluten at all, this makes it very tricky to work with as a flour, especially when attempting soba at home. Ni-hachi soba is another style that is made with roughly 80% buckwheat flour and 20% wheat flour. This is the kind of soba that Sonoko teaches in her workshops and the kind that we're making here.
Top 10 amazing movie makeup transformations. Soba noodles are Japanese thin noodles made of at least 30% buckwheat. Since buckwheat has a tendency not to adhere closely, the noodles also include regular wheat flower. They look very much like spaghetti noodles except they are a light brown in color. Udon is often made exclusively of wheat, rather than a mix of buckwheat and wheat. The popularity of each type tends to be regional. Soba noodles are more popular in certain areas of Japan than the thicker noodles; in Tokyo, for example, soba tends to be preferred to udon.
The noodles can be served cold with dipping sauces and toppings or hot in soups or broth. The buckwheat gives the noodles a nuttier texture and flavor than wheat noodles like udon, a thicker, wheat-based Japanese noodle. Like pasta, soba is available dried in traditional Japanese supermarkets, but taste best made fresh. It is a tradition in Japan to eat soba noodles on New Year's Eve. Dishes with soba noodles can be hot or cold. The most traditional form of soba noodle is called mori soba and is served chilled on a bamboo rack in a small box with soy sauce and wasabi for dipping. Zaru soba is similar to mori soba but it is served topped with thin nori strips.