Many preschool teachers have a minimum of an associate's degree; however, a bachelor's degree and teacher certification may be required in certain states. Bachelor's Degree. Earning a bachelor's degree in early childhood education can qualify you to teach preschool through third grade. Through bachelor's degree programs, you take early childhood development courses, such as child behavior and cognitive development, and gain experience with student teaching.
If you want to teach PUBLIC preschool/kindergarten, you would need a BA degree in education (preferably early elementary) and you would need to pass your state's teaching exam. In NJ, for example, you can become certified in PK-3rd gr or K-5th. Each state will have its own policy on State Certification. I teach and do not have any kind of a degree. Varies by state...but you will need a bachelors degree no matter what. Most states will allow you to have an associates in early childhood to teach preschool...but if you want to teach in a public preschool or head start-you have to have a bachelors.
Hi! If you want to teach PUBLIC preschool/kindergarten, you would need a BA degree in education (preferably early elementary) and you would need to pass your state's teaching exam. In NJ, for example, you can become certified in PK-3rd gr or K-5th. Each state will have its own policy on State Certification. Also, you will need to be state certified to teach in whichever state you want to teach in. Georgia has a test called PRAXIS I which i'm taking next Friday to become certified. I'm also going back to school for my 2nd bachelors for my ECE degree so I can teach elementary school.
I'm from Michigan...this is what you need. Bachelor's degree in Elementary Education with an Early Childhood Endorsement. An Elementary Education degree will allow you to teach K-6 grade in a self contained classroom. The Early Childhood Endorsement will allow you to teach anything PreK. I teach and do not have any kind of a degree. Varies by state...but you will need a bachelors degree no matter what. Most states will allow you to have an associates in early childhood to teach preschool...but if you want to teach in a public preschool or head start-you have to have a bachelors.
For preschool, some states will allow you to teach if you have an Associates Degree in Child Development. For kindergarten, you need to have a Batchelors Degree in Early Childhood Education. Also, you will need to be state certified to teach in whichever state you want to teach in. Georgia has a test called PRAXIS I which i'm taking next Friday to become certified. I'm also going back to school for my 2nd bachelors for my ECE degree so I can teach elementary school.
In public schools, preschool teachers are generally required to have at least a bachelor’s degree in early childhood education or a related field. Bachelor’s degree programs teach students about children’s development, strategies to teach young children, and how to observe and document children’s progress. Preschool teachers use play to teach children about the world. Preschool teachers educate and care for children, usually ages 3 to 5, who have not yet entered kindergarten. They teach reading, writing, science, and other subjects in a way that young children can understand.