Lemon Laws and Auto Dealers. Every state, including the District of Columbia, has a Lemon Law in place. Specifics vary by state, of course, but in general apply to new cars sold by a dealership car salesperson. Some states are beginning to modify the law so as to also cover a used car purchase, but only if the vehicle is still under warranty. Your vehicle is covered if you meet your state’s Lemon Law criteria.
In order to be covered by the Illinois Lemon Law, a vehicle must: have a nonconformity that both substantially impairs the use, market value or safety of the vehicle and is not repairable by the dealer or manufacturer in at least four attempts for the same repair, or.
Motor Vehicle Warranty and Lemon Law. A purchaser or lessee of a motor vehicle has various rights under both state and federal law if the vehicle does not perform as provided under an express warranty. Warranty law can be complex, and it is impossible to describe comprehensively all of the law in a brief space.
In order to qualify as a lemon under most state laws, the car must (1) have a substantial defect covered by the warranty that occurred within a certain period of time or number of miles after you bought the car, and (2) not be fixed after a reasonable number of repair attempts.
New York's New Car Lemon Law compels the manufacturer of such a car to make the necessary repairs (usually through the dealer that sold it), refund your money, or replace the vehicle. The law is limited to cars used primarily for personal use and does not cover motorcycles, ATVs, or the living quarters of an RV.
No. If you bought your car from a private individual (rather than from a dealer) you are not protected by the Used Car Lemon Law. You should consult a lawyer for advice as to other possible remedies. If the purchase price was $3,000 or less, you may wish to pursue your claim in Small Claims Court.
New York also has a Used Car Lemon Law for cars older than that or with more miles under their tires. Under the Used Car Lemon Law, vehicles that come from a dealer must have a warranty if they cost $1,500 or more and have been driven fewer than 100,000 miles.
Generally, if the car has been repaired three to four (or more) times for the same defect within the Warranty Period and the defect has not been fixed, the car qualifies as a Lemon. All States differ so you should consult the Lemon Law Summary and the State Statutes for your particular State.