For a closer look, check out:VIDEO: How to Cook Pasta with Giuliana. EIGHT STEPS TO PERFECT PASTA. 1  For every one pound of pasta, bring 5 quarts of water to a rolling boil. 2  Once water is boiling, then add about 2 tbsp. of coarse salt, or 1/4 cup table salt. 3  Stir to keep the pasta from sticking. 4  Stir within the first 2 minutes of cooking pasta. 1 For every one pound of pasta, bring 5 quarts of water to a rolling boil. 2  Once water is boiling, then add about 2 tbsp. of coarse salt, or 1/4 cup table salt. 3  Stir to keep the pasta from sticking.
The length of time it needs to cook will depend if it's regular spaghetti noodles, thin spaghetti, vermacelli, or angel hair. Read the box, it will give you an idea as to how long to cook that particular type of noodle. Source(s): MarLo · 8 years ago. 
Spaghetti takes about 10 minutes to cook as long as you bring the water to the boil before you add it :) hope this helps. Then place it cut side down in a pan and put about a half inch of water in the pan. Bake about 350 degrees for 20 to 30 minute … s. Then scrape the insides with a fork into a bowl. The bowl of squash will look like a bowl of yellow spaghetti
Don't rely on the package to give you the correct cooking time (this is only a guideline). Start timing when the water returns to a boil. Most pastas cook in 8 to 12 minutes. Test dry pasta for doneness after about 4 minutes of cooking by tasting it. It is difficult to give exact cooking times since different shapes and thickness of pasta will take less or more time to cook. To cook pasta properly, pasta needs a lot of water. A too-small pot and too little water encourages the pasta to clump and stick together, thus cooking unevenly. For a pound (16 ounces) of pasta, you will want a pot that holds at least 5 or 6 quarts of water.
Bake for about 40 minutes, or until you can easily pierce the squash with a fork. Let cool for about 15 minutes, or until squash is cool enough to handle. With a fork, scrape out the spaghetti-like strands and prepare as desired. To Cook in the Microwave: Place squash cut-sides-down in a microwave-safe baking dish. 
1 Meanwhile, bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil. 2  Mix in pasta and cook for 8 to 10 minutes or until al dente; drain. 3  Mix together spaghetti and meat mixture, pour into 9x13 pan. 4  Top with cheese and bake for 30 minutes, or until heated through and cheese is bubbly. 1 In large skillet, cook hamburger until brown. 2  Mix spaghetti sauce into skillet. 3  Reduce heat and simmer. 4  Meanwhile, bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil. 5
Show me a picture Cut in half, remove the seeds. Then place it cut side down in a pan and put about a half inch of water in the pan. Bake about 350 degrees for 20 to 30 minute … s. Then scrape the insides with a fork into a bowl. The bowl of squash will look like a bowl of yellow spaghetti