If you've owned a car for awhile, chances are you've locked your keys inside. You can pay to have a professional break into your car for you, or you can just learn how to do it yourself to save both time and money. According to YouTuber assertivecrystalgg45, all you need is a door stop/wooden wedge and a long metal rod. To break in, you insert the wedge into the top part of the driver's side door until it makes a small opening.
Use this to unlock your car when you lock your keys inside. According to YouTuber assertivecrystalgg45, all you need is a door stop/wooden wedge and a long metal rod. To break in, you insert the wedge into the top part of the driver's side door until it makes a small opening. Then you can stick the long metal rod into that opening and use it to push the unlock button on the car. This works much better with electronic locks but can be done with regular locks as well
1. Open the door. If you can get your arm in the crack and the chain is at least semi-close to the handle, you're good to go. 2. Loop one end of a rubber band around the chain and through the other end. Basically, tie the rubber band around the chain, one end taut around the chain and the other looped away.
How to Pick a lock in a flash. Learn to Pick a lock in less than 5 minutes with this how-to video! You will need a half-diamond pick, a rake pick, a tension wrench and a pin tumbler lock. A lack of morals doesn't hurt either, unless you're just trying to break into your own lock that you've lost the key for. Watch this video tutorial and learn how to pick a lock. 
1 The police will be hesitant to believe that you're breaking into your own house. 2  Be prepared to show them your property deed, or tell them where it is located. 3  Any damage you do to your house/door/lock will result in something you have to fix later. 4  When in doubt, just call a locksmith and wait it out. Open the door. If you can get your arm in the crack and the chain is at least semi-close to the handle, you're good to go. 2. Loop one end of a rubber band around the chain and through the other end. Basically, tie the rubber band around the chain, one end taut around the chain and the other looped away.
Change your door handle with lock to a bathroom-type door handle with lock. They acutally have a hole on the outside handle to access and unlock the door with a small screwdriver or flat rod to turn the latch in case of emergency. You can lock it the normal way by turning the doorknob latch once on the inside. Install a deadbolt, or deadbolt style lock, where you MUST use the key to lock the door. Install a lock (this is what I did) that can be opened with a code or thumbprint instead of (or in addition to) the key.
How to Break into a classroom by picking the lock. There's probably no good reason to pick the lock on a classroom door, but there may be a time to need to know how to break into a classroom anyway. Learn how to pick a lock and jimmy the latch of a bolted school room door by watching this how-to con video tutorial. Just get out a paper clip, bend and jimmy as shown in this instructional video, and you're in.
Please try again later. You never know when you will need to break down a door. This video will show you how to kick down a door, how to axe down a door and how to shoot down a door with a shotgun. You get the easy way to break down a door, and the awesome way. For more detailed info, check out http://52skillz.com/ . 
An apartment break-in can be a terrifying and traumatic experience. Crime in your apartment doesn't always entitle you to break your lease, though. Instead, you'll have to demonstrate that the break-in was directly related to the landlord's negligence and that such negligence constituted a material breach of your lease. 
Once you've flipped it, the garage door will open like magic. 1  If you can't see into your garage, feel the rod along the metal support and work your way up to that machinery at the top. 2  Once you feel a ridge poking out of the line, that's your key. Open the door. If you can get your arm in the crack and the chain is at least semi-close to the handle, you're good to go. 2. Loop one end of a rubber band around the chain and through the other end. Basically, tie the rubber band around the chain, one end taut around the chain and the other looped away.