Facts about Titan. Titan is the largest moon of Saturn, the second largest in the Solar System (after Ganymede of Jupiter). It was discovered by Christiaan Huygens in 1655. Titan's rotation period of about 16 days is synchronous to Saturn (meaning the same side always faces Saturn). It is the only moon in the Solar System known to have clouds and a thick, planet-like atmosphere.
Titan [TY-tun] is the fifteenth of Saturn's moons and is the largest. It is also the second largest moon in the Solar System. Titan was names after the ancient race of giants in Greek Mythology. They were the children of Uranus and Gaia, who sought to rule the heavens but were overthrown by the family of Zeus. Titan was discovered in 1655 by the Dutch astronomer Christiaan Huygens. 
Frequently described as a planet-like moon, Titan's diameter is 50% larger than Earth's natural satellite, the Moon, and it is 80% more massive. It is the second-largest moon in the Solar System, after Jupiter's moon Ganymede, and is larger by volume than the smallest planet, Mercury, although only 40% as massive. Titan (or Saturn VI) is the largest moon of Saturn. It is the only natural satellite known to have a dense atmosphere, and the only object other than Earth where clear evidence of stable bodies of surface liquid has been found.
View full size image. Titan is Saturn's largest moon and the second largest in the solar system (after Ganymede of Jupiter). It is the only moon in the solar system with clouds and a dense, planet-like atmosphere. Titan's diameter is 50 percent larger than that of Earth's moon. Titan is larger than the planet Mercury but is half the mass of the planet. Titan's upland areas are shorter than Earth's. The largest mountains are only a few hundred yards high.
Discovered in 1655 by the Dutch astronomer Christiaan Huygens, Titan was the first known moon of Saturn, and the fifth known satellite of another planet. Titan is primarily composed of water ice and rocky material. Titan (or Saturn VI) is the largest moon of Saturn. It is the only natural satellite known to have a dense atmosphere, and the only object other than Earth where clear evidence of stable bodies of surface liquid has been found.
by Karl Tate, SPACE.com Infographics Artist | January 14, 2013 08:32am ET. Discovered in the year 1655, Titan is the largest of Saturn’s 62 charted moons. Titan is the only moon in the solar system with a dense atmosphere and stable bodies of liquid on its surface. Titan, 3,200 miles (5,150 kilometers) in diameter, is the second-largest moon in the solar system, one-and-a-half times the size of Earth’s moon. Titan is larger than the planet Mercury and is three-quarters the size of Mars.
1 Titan, at 5,150 km diameter, is the second largest moon in the Solar System and Saturn's largest. 2  Out of all the large moons, Titan is the only one with a dense (surface pressure of 1.5 atm), cold atmosphere, primarily made of nitrogen with a small fraction of methane. Before the advent of telescopic photography, eight moons of Saturn were discovered by direct observation using optical telescopes. Saturn's largest moon, Titan, was discovered in 1655 by Christiaan Huygens using a 57-millimeter (2.2 in) objective lens on a refracting telescope of his own design. Tethys, Dione, Rhea and Iapetus (the  Sidera Lodoicea ) were discovered between 1671 and 1684 by Giovanni Domenico Cassini
Titan. Discovered by Huygens in 1655, Titan is the largest moon orbiting Saturn, and the second largest moon in the Solar System. It is bigger in diameter than both the planets Mercury and Pluto and also larger than Earth's moon. It contains an atmosphere far thicker than even that of the Earth
Titan was the first known moon of Saturn, discovered in 1655 by the Dutch astronomer Christian Huygens. 