Medications and other treatments for eczema include: 1  Hydrocortisone. 2  Over-the-counter hydrocortisone cream or ointment may help mild eczema. 3  Prescription steroid cream may be needed for more severe eczema. 4  Antihistamines. 5  Oral antihistamines such as Benadryl are available over-the-counter and may help relieve symptoms. For some people with mild eczema, modifying their skin care routine and making a few lifestyle changes may be all that is needed to treat eczema. Other people with more severe eczema may need to take medications to control their symptoms. Non-drug treatments for eczema include: 1  Mild soap and moisturizer. 2  It's best to use a mild soap or soap substitute that won't dry your skin. 3  Gentle soaps, known as syndets, are available at the drugstore (brand names can be recommended by your doctor or pharmacist)
Moisturizing. Eczema is a chronic recurring skin disorder that results in dry, easily irritated, itchy skin. There is no cure for eczema, but good daily skin care is essential to controlling the disease. When your skin is dry, it is not because it lacks grease or oil, but because it fails to retain water. 
First Steps to Treating Eczema. If you have eczema, it is important to take good care of your skin. Take warm (not hot!) baths on a regular basis and immediately applying moisturizers afterward will help keep your skin moist. You’ll find more information about this in the bathing and moisturizing section. People try many treatments for eczema to relieve the itch. They use over-the-counter remedies they can get in a drugstore. They use prescription medications they get from their doctors. They even try an alternative eczema treatment, such as herbs.
Dip this into cool water. Place this compress on the eczema rash for 10 to 15 minutes every hour. If the rash is weeping and oozing, a cool compress is still a good treatment. If the itching is nearly unbearable, try making the compress with cool whole milk. The protein in the milk will help soothe itching. Save. Eczema is a vicious cycle of itchy skin. The skin itches, becomes red with tiny oozing bumps that, in turn, itch. As the scratching continues, the rash gets worse and so does the itching. Eczema can be caused by an allergy to soap, chemical exposure and reaction to medication.
Introduction. Eczema is a chronic, inflammatory skin disorder. It can appear as blisters that crust over to become scaly, itchy rashes, or as dry, thick patches of skin with scales. The main symptom is itching, and symptoms can come and go. Although eczema is not contagious, it is very common. 
Eczema (also called atopic dermatitis) is a skin rash that usually appears before age 5. In babies it tends to show up on the cheeks and scalp, but it may spread to the arms, legs, chest, or other parts of the body. Eczema is not an allergic reaction to a substance, but allergens or irritants in the environment (such as pollen or cigarette smoke) can trigger it. Less frequently, it can be triggered by allergens in your child's diet – or in your diet if your child is breastfeeding.
Eczema or atopic dermatitis is one of the most common skin disorders seen in infants and children, affecting 10 to 15 percent of the childhood population. There could be many causes of atopic dermatitis, including allergic or immune mediated components. 
Nearly 31 million Americans suffer from eczema-related symptoms. Those embarrassing patches of rough, reddened, intensely itchy skin can keep eczema sufferers from enjoying their lives, and for a parent, it’s difficult to watch your child go through it. Surprisingly, the exact cause of eczema and psoriasis is still a mystery to doctors.
A. A. Eczema is a term for a group of medical conditions that cause the skin to become inflamed or irritated. The most common type of eczema is known as atopic dermatitis, or atopic eczema. Atopic refers to a group of diseases with an often inherited tendency to develop other allergic conditions, such as asthma and hay fever. 