Now that you understand the basics of how costs work in AdWords, let's look at the ways you can control your costs: Note: Video instructions are up-to-date, but don't show the latest AdWords design. Your daily budget is the amount you're willing to spend each day, on average, for each ad campaign in your account. Even though your actual CPCs may vary, your daily budget puts a limit on how much you can accrue in click costs from day to day. Google may allow up to 20% more clicks in a day than your daily budget specifies.
The Most Expensive AdWords Keywords. While the minimum bid per keyword is 5 cents in AdWords, the high cost keywords listed above are nowhere near that. Google can make up to $50 per click from the most expensive PPC keywords. Keyword advertising is a highly lucrative business for Google. Learn more about the costs of AdWords here. 
This means the amount you pay for a click on your ad-your actual CPC-will likely vary from auction to auction. Even though your actual CPCs may vary, your daily budget puts a limit on how much you can accrue in click costs from day to day. Google may allow up to 20% more clicks in a day than your daily budget specifies. We call this overdelivery
Some of the factors that influence how much the cost per click on Adwords are the size of a market, number of competitors, and the number of keywords available. Take a plumber that serves a community with a population of 50,000. So if you invest $10,000 in pay per click you could get 1,000 clicks on your campaign. Invest $10,000 in SEO and you will continue to generate clicks over time. You could get 1,000 clicks the first year and another 1,000 the next year. So now the cost per click is half of what PPC was.
1 The average cost per click in Google AdWords is between $1 and $2 on the search network. 2  The average CPC on the Display Network is under $1. 3  The most expensive keywords in AdWords and Bing Ads cost $50 or more per click. 1 The most expensive keywords in AdWords and Bing Ads cost $50 or more per click. 2  These are generally highly competitive keywords in industries that have high customer lifetime values, like law and insurance. 3  Giant retailers can spend up to $50 million per year on paid search in AdWords.
1 Giant retailers can spend up to $50 million per year on paid search in AdWords. 2  The average small business using AdWords spends between $9,000 and $10,000 per month on their Google paid search campaigns. 3  That's $100,000 to $120,000 per year. 1 The most expensive keywords in AdWords and Bing Ads cost $50 or more per click. 2  These are generally highly competitive keywords in industries that have high customer lifetime values, like law and insurance. 3  Giant retailers can spend up to $50 million per year on paid search in AdWords.
1 You can exercise tight control over how your AdWords budget is spent using tactics like ad scheduling, geotargeting, and device targeting. 2  The average cost per click in Google AdWords is between $1 and $2 on the search network. 3  The average CPC on the Display Network is under $1. 1 The most expensive keywords in AdWords and Bing Ads cost $50 or more per click. 2  These are generally highly competitive keywords in industries that have high customer lifetime values, like law and insurance. 3  Giant retailers can spend up to $50 million per year on paid search in AdWords.
1 The average CPC on the Display Network is under $1. 2  The most expensive keywords in AdWords and Bing Ads cost $50 or more per click. 3  These are generally highly competitive keywords in industries that have high customer lifetime values, like law and insurance. 1 The most expensive keywords in AdWords and Bing Ads cost $50 or more per click. 2  These are generally highly competitive keywords in industries that have high customer lifetime values, like law and insurance. 3  Giant retailers can spend up to $50 million per year on paid search in AdWords.
To get going with Google AdWords, you’re looking at two initial costs: Cost #1: Clicks — Google AdWords is a pay-per-click advertising program (or PPC). Google will charge you each time someone clicks on your ad, and the cost per click can range from mere pennies to big bucks. The good news is that these costs can be controlled and you’ll only be paying for people who are interested enough to click on your ad.