Hypernyms (genus Ailurus is a kind of...): mammal genus (a genus of mammals). Meronyms (members of genus Ailurus): Ailurus fulgens; bear cat; cat bear; lesser panda; panda; red panda (reddish-brown Old World raccoon-like carnivore; in some classifications considered unrelated to the giant pandas). 
Ailurus fulgens, bear cat, cat bear, lesser panda, red panda, panda-reddish-brown Old World raccoon-like carnivore; in some classifications considered unrelated to the giant pandas. 
This word doesn't usually appear in our free dictionary, but the definition from our premium Unabridged Dictionary is offered here on a limited basis. Note that some information is displayed differently in the Unabridged. To access the complete Unabridged Dictionary, with an additional 300,000 words that aren't in our free dictionary, start a free trial.
Red panda-Not a miniature version of the Giant panda. Animals / Mammals / Carnivora (270) / Ursidae (9) / Ailurinae (2) / Ailurus (1). The origin of the name Panda is the Nepalese word Nigalya ponya, which has the meaning of eater of bamboo.
The red panda is the only living species of the genus Ailurus and the family Ailuridae. The red panda is endemic to the temperate forests of the Himalayas, and ranges from the foothills of western Nepal to China in the east. Its easternmost limit is the Qinling Mountains of the Shaanxi Province in China.
Definition of AILURUS. : a genus of mammals (family Procyonidae) comprising the panda and formerly regarded as the type of a separate family. ADVERTISEMENT. New Latin, from Greek ailouros cat. Note that some information is displayed differently in the Unabridged. To access the complete Unabridged Dictionary, with an additional 300,000 words that aren't in our free dictionary, start a free trial.
Hypernyms (Ailurus is a kind of...): mammal genus (a genus of mammals). Meronyms (members of Ailurus): Ailurus fulgens; bear cat; cat bear; lesser panda; panda; red panda (reddish-brown Old World raccoon-like carnivore; in some classifications considered unrelated to the giant pandas). 
Ailurus fulgens, bear cat, cat bear, lesser panda, red panda, panda-reddish-brown Old World raccoon-like carnivore; in some classifications considered unrelated to the giant pandas. 1  Facebook. Noun. 1. Ailurus-lesser pandas. genus Ailurus. mammal genus-a genus of mammals.
(Redirected from Ailurus). It is not a bear, nor closely related to the giant panda, nor a raccoon, nor a lineage of uncertain affinities. Rather it is a basal lineage of musteloid, with a long history of independence from its closest relatives (skunks, raccoons, and otters/weasels/badgers). The red panda is endemic to the temperate forests of the Himalayas, and ranges from the foothills of western Nepal to China in the east. Its easternmost limit is the Qinling Mountains of the Shaanxi Province in China.