The rank and file of the military in most of the Greek city states was composed of ordinary citizens. Heavily armed foot soldiers were called hoplites hoplitès or hoplites and a hoplomachos was a drill or weapons. instructor Enlisted personnel are personnel below commissioned rank and make up the vast majority of military personnel. They are known by different names in different countries, such as other ranks (ORs) in the United Kingdom and some Commonwealth countries, and non-commissioned members (NCMs) in Canada.
3 For example, when the Army created a chemical branch, it also made the rank, pay, and allowances for the new Chemical Ser-vice Section the same as for the Medical Department. 4 Despite this equivalency, the Army authorized the chemical troops their own chevron design in February 1918. 
Military ranks are a system of hierarchical relationships in armed forces, police, intelligence agencies or other institutions organized along military lines. Usually, uniforms denote the bearer's rank by particular insignia affixed to the uniforms. Enlisted personnel are personnel below commissioned rank and make up the vast majority of military personnel. They are known by different names in different countries, such as other ranks (ORs) in the United Kingdom and some Commonwealth countries, and non-commissioned members (NCMs) in Canada.
The United States Army remains one of the most powerful forces in the world based on recent combat experiences, equipment and training. The US Army maintains a long-standing tradition dating as far back as 1775 when the first companies of riflemen were formed by the Continental Congress. More recently, U.S. Army personnel have been involved as part of the 2001 War in Afghanistan and the 2003 Invasion of Iraq. The branch is regarded as one of the most powerful in the world based on combat experience, equipment quality
It is one of the seven uniformed services of the United States, and is designated as the Army of the United States in the United States Constitution, Article 2, Section 2, Clause 1 and United States Code, Title 10, Subtitle B, Chapter 301, Section 3001. In 1941, the  Army of the United States  was founded to fight World War II. The Regular Army, Army of the United States, the National Guard, and Officer/Enlisted Reserve Corps (ORC and ERC) existed simultaneously. After World War II, the ORC and ERC were combined into the United States Army Reserve.
But this army was not the official army of the United States.Finally, on September 29, 1789, the last day of its first session, the U.S. Congress passed an act to establish the United States military. However, this happened only after President Washington reminded them, twice! page 1 of 3. 
The United States Army considers itself descended from the Continental Army, and dates its institutional inception from the origin of that armed force in 1775. As a uniformed military service, the Army is part of the Department of the Army, which is one of the three military departments of the Department of Defense. In 1941, the  Army of the United States  was founded to fight World War II. The Regular Army, Army of the United States, the National Guard, and Officer/Enlisted Reserve Corps (ORC and ERC) existed simultaneously. After World War II, the ORC and ERC were combined into the United States Army Reserve.
The United States Army (USA) is the largest branch of the United States Armed Forces and performs land-based military operations. In 1941, the  Army of the United States  was founded to fight World War II. The Regular Army, Army of the United States, the National Guard, and Officer/Enlisted Reserve Corps (ORC and ERC) existed simultaneously. After World War II, the ORC and ERC were combined into the United States Army Reserve.
The United States Air Force was established as an independent service on 18 September 1947; it traces its origin to the formation of the Aeronautical Division, U.S. Signal Corps in 1907 and was part of the Army before becoming an independent service. The United States Armed Forces are the federal military forces of the United States. They consist of the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Air Force, and Coast Guard. The United States has a strong tradition of civilian control of the military