Voyage inside the cell. Two types of cells that make up all living things on earth: prokaryotic and eukaryotic. Prokaryotic cells (check this video) , like bacteria, have no 'nucleus', while eukaryotic cells, like those of the human body, do. So, a human cell is enclosed by a cell, or plasma, membrane. Enclosed by that membrane is the cytoplasm (with associated organelles) plus a nucleus. Structure of a typical bacterium (prokaryote) (Source: en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Prokaryote).
Nucleus. The nucleus is one of the most important organelles in a cell. It is often the largest organelle in animal cells, but this is not always the case. Nuclei contain the genetic material called DNA that is responsible for controlling and directing all cell activities. Ribosomes. Ribosomes are small structures made of RNA and Protein that function in protein synthesis to create proteins for the cell out of amino acids. They are formed in the nucleolus, which is found inside the nucleus.
Membrane Bound Organelles. 1  The Nucleus is the largest organelle in a cell. 2  It contains a dense structure called the Nucleolus and is surrounded by the Nuclear Envelope, a structure composed of two membranes, seperated by fluid, which contain a number of nuclear pores that can allow relatively large molecules through. 1 These structures are called Organelles. 2  The fine detail of the cell (which may be revealed by an electron microscope) is called the cell's ultrastructure. 3  Organelles perform different functions within a cell, and this is called the Division of Labour.
1 Organisms are composed of cells, and these cells have specific structures within in them that allow them to carry out their functions. 2  These structures are called Organelles. 3  The fine detail of the cell (which may be revealed by an electron microscope) is called the cell's ultrastructure. 1 These structures are called Organelles. 2  The fine detail of the cell (which may be revealed by an electron microscope) is called the cell's ultrastructure. 3  Organelles perform different functions within a cell, and this is called the Division of Labour.
Image: Specialised organelles. Every cell in your body contains organelles (structures that have specific functions). Just like organs in the body, each organelle contributes in its own way to helping the cell function well as a whole. The nucleus, mitochondria and chloroplasts are all
In cell biology, an organelle /ɔrɡəˈnɛl/ is a specialized subunit within a cell that has a specific function. Individual organelles are usually separately enclosed within their own lipid bilayers. The name organelle comes from the idea that these structures are to cells what an organ is to the body (hence the name organelle, the suffix-elle being a diminutive). 
Specialised organelles. Some cell types have their own specialised organelles that carry out functions that aren’t required by all cells. Here are just a few of the specialised organelles that we know about: 1  Chloroplasts are found in plant cells and other organisms that conduct photosynthesis (such as algae). Every cell in your body contains organelles (structures that have specific functions). Just like organs in the body, each organelle contributes in its own way to helping the cell function well as a whole. The nucleus, mitochondria and chloroplasts are all organelles
All eukaryotic cells have within them a variety of different structures called organelles. Organelles are small and function much like organs function in a large organism. Some organelles are responsible for gathering cell energy, others for controlling cell activities. Ribosomes. Ribosomes are small structures made of RNA and Protein that function in protein synthesis to create proteins for the cell out of amino acids. They are formed in the nucleolus, which is found inside the nucleus.
Organelles and Their Functions. The nucleus is arguably the most important organelle in the cell. It is the control center, telling all of the other organelles what to do and when to do it. The nucleus also contains all of the cell's genetic material, or its DNA. 