Fast food, a worldwide influence, has become a major issue on our society, communities and organizations who are against or in favor of its consumption. This literature review selects and examines various advertisements, opinions, and data of the effect fast food has on American community. Television advertising, radio advertising, restaurants websites, banners as well as social media are all advertising to influence the community on fast food consumption. A major part of the fast food education has always been in written form on advertisements, banners, brochures, articles.
Fast Food. Fast food in the U.S. has grown from a $6 billion-a-year industry in 1970 [1] into a corporate juggernaut with more than $170 billion in annual revenues today. [2] Especially because “meat,” dairy and eggs are the main ingredients in fast food, the exponential increase in its consumption has engendered a wide range of negative social impacts—including rapidly rising diet-related disease rates, worker exploitation, systemic animal abuse, and environmental degradation.
Site Search: Fast food in the U.S. has grown from a $6 billion-a-year industry in 1970 [1] into a corporate juggernaut with more than $170 billion in annual revenues today. [2] Especially because “meat,” dairy and eggs are the main ingredients in fast food, the exponential increase in its consumption has engendered a wide range of negative social impacts—including rapidly rising diet-related disease rates, worker exploitation, systemic animal abuse, and environmental degradation.
McDonald’s unparalleled influence. Daily, McDonald's sells beef, chicken, and potatoes to billions of people. In turn, it's a lead purchaser of beef, pork, potatoes, apples, chicken, fish, and lettuce: staple foods that are the building blocks of every meal. No surprise, then: Big Ag falls over backwards to meet the needs of its number-one customer.
It is one of the largest influences on the community as a whole especially on children, teens, and even adults. Fast food is a multibillion dollar industry that has influence on what and how we eat. It does not only affect person’s nutrition and diet, but also the economy. On average one-fifth of the American population eat in a fast food restaurant each day. Television advertising, radio advertising, restaurants websites, banners as well as social media are all advertising to influence the community on fast food consumption. A major part of the fast food education has always been in written form on advertisements, banners, brochures, articles.
Techno-Science Techno-science is one of the leading forces that has affected and will continue to influence McDonald’s. As with any industry, techno-science has immensely shaped the fast food industry. It has helped improve customer experience and improve the products. For example, McDonalds introduced “Aunt and Uncle McDonald” in China because of the country’s emphasis on family values (Heer and Penfold 1). In Russia, McDonalds hired hosts to help customers adapt to the fast food environment, which previously did not exist in this country (Bryman 154).
Low fast food prices alone may not attract consumers in good economies. Steve Mason/Photodisc/Getty Images. The fast food industry generates about $165 billion in revenue annually, based on 2011 market research by IBISWorld. The research also indicates that about 184,200 fast food businesses operate in the United States. Meal prices affect consumers’ restaurant choices in some economic climates. However, consumers’ desire for more variety and healthier foods at restaurants sometimes outweigh their concerns about costs. 
Because McDonald’s buys and sells food on such an immense scale, it has almost unrivaled clout in our food production. Big Food giants like Monsanto, ADM, Cargill, Bunge, and Tyson exist as we know them today in response to McDonald's unparalleled demand for high volumes of consistent ingredients. In turn, it's a lead purchaser of beef, pork, potatoes, apples, chicken, fish, and lettuce: staple foods that are the building blocks of every meal. No surprise, then: Big Ag falls over backwards to meet the needs of its number-one customer.
The fast food industry’s economic clout has not only enabled it to affect a radical shift in the country’s eating patterns, but also fundamentally alter the very way that food is produced. [2] Especially because “meat,” dairy and eggs are the main ingredients in fast food, the exponential increase in its consumption has engendered a wide range of negative social impacts—including rapidly rising diet-related disease rates, worker exploitation, systemic animal abuse, and environmental degradation.
2 Globalization McDonalds is a prominent global force and symbol of globalization. It was one of the first companies in the fast food industry to globalize, which has had positive and negative impacts on the company. McDonald’s initial strategy was to take their standardized American practices to foreign countries. For example, McDonalds introduced “Aunt and Uncle McDonald” in China because of the country’s emphasis on family values (Heer and Penfold 1). In Russia, McDonalds hired hosts to help customers adapt to the fast food environment, which previously did not exist in this country (Bryman 154).