Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Prosciutto is a salt cured ham which is not smoked. Speck is salt cured and spiced and then smoked for about a week. I just got back home from the Christmas market in Bolzano where I bought both proscuitto and speck and had some excellent canederli with speck in brodo for lunch. It is smoked ham from Germany or Italy and in France we call it speck also. They are both processed the same. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Speck The difference is real slight tough and not so noticeable. Speck can also stand for lard.
Speck Alto Adige PGI (German: Suedtiroler Südtiroler) speck is a-dry, cured lightly smoked (ham prosciutto In), italian produced In South, tyrol Northern. Italy parts of its production are regulated by The European union under the protected geographical (INDICATION) pgi (status see Also Tyrolean). speck Speck Alto Adige PGI (German: Suedtiroler Südtiroler) speck is a-dry, cured lightly smoked (ham prosciutto In), italian produced In South, tyrol Northern. italy
We all know and love our prosciutto -- it's hard not to. But there are other great Italian cured meats out there, and it's time you've become acquainted with them. Speck is one of our favorites and if you haven't tried it before, now's the time to do it. Speck is a cured and smoked ham from the Tyrol region of Italy. It's made from the pork shoulder and can have a slight juniper flavor, which makes it so unique. You can definitely eat speck just by the slice, but if you feel like cooking with this great cured meat, we've got some recipes you just have to try
Speck comes from Tyrol (it actually means bacon in german, which is misleading) and is prepared with a specific blend of spices, usually including juniper, Jamon Serrano from Spain (it means mountain ham in spanish) and is a dry-cured ham, and prosciutto just means ham in italian. 
Normal English use refers to German culinary uses, particularly of smoked or pickled pork belly. In Italy and parts of the English-speaking culinary world, the term Speck refers to Italian Speck, a type of prosciutto, rather than German Speck, which is identical to the Italian  lardo . Speck is an English word meaning fat or blubber, attested since the early 17th century. This word also exists in German with the same meaning, but it normally refers to pork fat with or without some meat in it
Best Answer: Speck: Is a distinctively juniper-flavored ham In parts of the English-speaking culinary world, the term speck refers to Italian speck, a type of prosciutto, rather than German speck, which is identical to the Italian lardo. The speck is then matured for five months. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Speck Bacon is a cured meat prepared from a pig. It is first cured in a brine or in a dry packing, both containing large amounts of salt; the result is fresh bacon (also green bacon). Fresh bacon may then be further dried for weeks or months (usually in cold air), boiled, or smoked
Traditional speck is a meat similar to bacon, prosciutto, or pancetta, with a distinct flavor and preparation method which is separate from these traditional meats. This meat is often served as an appetizer, traditionally included on hospitality plates, and it can also be used in cooked dishes. Ad. 