Hibiscus or Rose of China (Hibiscus rosa-sinensis) is a flowering plant that can bloom almost year-round. It has large, colorful flowers and is cultivated throughout the tropics and other warm climates. Hibiscus vary in size. The normal height is 12 to 18 inches, but they can grow to as high as 5 feet if not cut back.
Hibiscus include a very wide variety of plants grown not only for their ornamental flowers but also as vegetables and fiber plants. Some are hardy perennials, while others are annuals, shrubs or tropical plants.
Hardy hibiscus prefer full sun or partial shade and any soil that is not too dry. Hardy hibiscus are especially useful in areas where the soil is too wet for other perennials. In the landscape, they are often used as colorful, flowering specimen plants, as borders or as taller components of perennial gardens.
Double-blooming hibiscus plants (Hibiscus spp.) train easily into trees that reach up to 10 feet tall and spread 8 feet wide.
Place 6 to 8 inches of potting soil in the base of the container. Remove the double bloom hibiscus from the grower's pot, and knead the roots at the base to free them. Place the plant inside the container so that the top of the root ball is an inch or so beneath the rim. Fill in around the sides with potting soil.
Many Hardy hibiscus are native to Florida and the southeastern United States, including comfortroot (Hibiscus aculeatus) , scarlet rosemallow (H. coccineus) , swamp rosemallow (H. grandiflorus) , halberdleaf rosemallow (H. laevis) and crimsoneyed rosemallow (H. moscheutos) .
Proper placement is the first step in good care of Hibiscus. They are used as informal hedges or screens, foundation plants, or as a background for other garden plants. They do not do well as formal sheard hedges. It is better to use a single variety and color for mass planting than mixing, for appearance.
Hardy hibiscus are an overlooked group of perennials with tremendous potential for the landscape. Hardy hibiscus are herbaceous perennial members of the genus, Hibiscus. They are large-flowered, fast-growing plants up to 15 feet tall and 4 to 8 feet wide.