Confidence votes 40. Nonspecific immune response is the first and second line of defense when a foreign object tries to enter or enter the body. This response will attack anything (specific immune response will only attack certain infections) that it comes in contact with. Parts of nonspecific immune response are: Skin, Mucous membranes, Phagocytic (cells that eat foreign particles) cells, Antimicrobial proteins, and the inflammatory response.
A non-specific immune response is where the immune response acts broadly against a range of pathogens to immobilize and destroy them without the production of antibodies. the first and second line defense systems form part of the non-specific immune response. 
In animals, there are two types of defenses against foreign invaders: specific and nonspecific. Specific immune responses can distinguish among different invaders. The response is different for each invader. With nonspecific defenses, the protection is always the same, no matter what the invader may be. Whereas only vertebrates have specific immune responses, all animals have some type of nonspecific defense.
Nonspecific like the skin, mucous membranes, tears, mucus and the inflammatory response... are designed with and acidic surface that, for the most part, repels bacteria and are attributable to factors other than specific antibodies. This is considered a non-specific response because the response is not different for different pathogens. 2) The second line includes the inflammatory response, natural killer cells, macrophages, and fever. This level of defense is also considered non-specific. 3) The third line includes the two specific defenses-your humoral or antibody mediated immune response and your cell mediated immune response. In both cases your body is responding to a particular antigen or infectious agent
The innate immune system, also known as the nonspecific immune system, is an important subsystem of the overall immune system that comprises the cells and mechanisms that defend the host from infection by other organisms. 
This is considered a non-specific response because the response is not different for different pathogens. 2) The second line includes the inflammatory response, natural killer cells, macrophages, and fever. This response will attack anything (specific immune response will only attack certain infections) that it comes in contact with. Parts of nonspecific immune response are: Skin, Mucous membranes, Phagocytic (cells that eat foreign particles) cells, Antimicrobial proteins, and the inflammatory response.
Report Abuse. a specific response is a response from the immune system to fight off a specific pathogen. Non specific responses from the immune system are response that are given out for any pathogen that enters the body. Non specific responses happen regardless of the pathogen that the immune system is fighting. Non-Specific= Innate based. Neurophils, macrophages, - all using toll-like receptors or lps receptors, that engulf any pathogen, without caring what the pathogen is. It is not tailored to any specific pathogen and treats all equally.
This level of defense is also considered non-specific. 3) The third line includes the two specific defenses-your humoral or antibody mediated immune response and your cell mediated immune response. In both cases your body is responding to a particular antigen or infectious agent. This response will attack anything (specific immune response will only attack certain infections) that it comes in contact with. Parts of nonspecific immune response are: Skin, Mucous membranes, Phagocytic (cells that eat foreign particles) cells, Antimicrobial proteins, and the inflammatory response.
Posted on. by Dr.Sam. Specific vs Nonspecific Immunity. Immune response is the complex series of mechanisms that act against invasions by harmful microorganisms. Without this defense, the body is vulnerable to a whole host of infections. • Non-specific immunity is a set of defenses effective against all the invaders while specific immunity is a highly focused and targeted response. • Non-specific immunity is the first line of defense while specific immunity is the second line of defense.