1 In these cases, it's best to do surgery soon after the injury. 2  A complete rotator cuff tear causes severe shoulder weakness. 3  The rotator cuff has failed to improve with 3 to 6 months of conservative nonsurgical treatment alone (such as physical therapy). 1 A rotator cuff tear is caused by a sudden injury. 2  In these cases, it's best to do surgery soon after the injury. 3
Confidence votes 224. It usually takes between four and six months to fully recover from rotator cuff surgery. The first couple weeks after the surgery, the arm has to remain immobilized; after this, physical therapy begins and becomes more intense over the weeks to follow. A torn rotator cuff takes at least 6-8 months to fully recover from. My father had this surgery in Feb 2008 and was not fully recovered until late Sept/early Oct. A torn bicep … tendon takes 4-5 months to get over. I tore mine in June 2008 and was fully recovered in November 2008.
1 Some people who do not have surgery to repair severe rotator cuff tears develop cuff tear arthropathy, a condition of progressive arthritis, pain, and significant loss of strength, flexibility, and function. 1 A rotator cuff tear is caused by a sudden injury. 2  In these cases, it's best to do surgery soon after the injury. 3  A complete rotator cuff tear causes severe shoulder weakness.
Surgery to repair a rotator cuff is done when: 1  A rotator cuff tear is caused by a sudden injury. 2  In these cases, it's best to do surgery soon after the injury. 3  A complete rotator cuff tear causes severe shoulder weakness. 1
Full recovery from rotator cuff surgery can take anywhere from 6 to 12 months, depending on the patient. A study of rotator cuff surgery recovery published in the Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews, issue 1, in 2008 showed continued strength gains 2 years after rotator cuff surgery. A torn rotator cuff takes at least 6-8 months to fully recover from. My father had this surgery in Feb 2008 and was not fully recovered until late Sept/early Oct. A torn bicep … tendon takes 4-5 months to get over. I tore mine in June 2008 and was fully recovered in November 2008.
Rotator cuff tears are a very common source of shoulder pain. Rotator cuff surgery becomes an option for you if you do not respond to non-surgical treatments. Our recent Expert Series explored: 1  The causes of rotator cuff tears. 2  Night Pain and Rotator Cuff Tears. Stiffness during recovery from rotator cuff surgery. Stiffness is a big issue many patients will have to deal with after rotator cuff surgery. Stiffness is more common following repairs, and it is very common in diabetics. Some patients even have a genetic predisposition to developing stiffness.
How To: Recover from a Rotator Cuff Injury. For the last 7 weeks, I have been working to rehabilitate a bum shoulder, the result of going over the bars on a waterfall. The Verdict: Rotator Cuff Strain/Tear or Torn Labrum. I've got two more weeks before I get an MRI, and know for sure what is wrong. Hoping to heal up and feel better before then
Surgery to repair a torn rotator cuff tendon usually involves: 1  Removing loose fragments of tendon, bursa, and other debris from the space in the shoulder where the rotator cuff moves (debridement). 2  Making more room for the rotator cuff tendon so it is not pinched or irritated. 1 A rotator cuff tear is caused by a sudden injury. 2  In these cases, it's best to do surgery soon after the injury. 3  A complete rotator cuff tear causes severe shoulder weakness.
Recovery from rotator cuff surgery can be a lengthy process. Surgery on the shoulder, even though it is arthroscopic, usually produces significant pain and stiffness — and involves a long recovery process. Stiffness during recovery from rotator cuff surgery. Stiffness is a big issue many patients will have to deal with after rotator cuff surgery. Stiffness is more common following repairs, and it is very common in diabetics. Some patients even have a genetic predisposition to developing stiffness.