Full Definition of AMPERSAND. : a character typically & standing for the word and. See ampersand defined for English-language learners. See ampersand defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 
Etymology [edit]. The Roman ampersand on the left is stylised, but the italic one on the right is clearly similar to et. A mondegreen of and per se and, meaning and (the character) '&' by itself, which is how the symbol (&) was originally referred to in English. 
The ampersand should not be confused with the Tironian et (⁊), which is a symbol similar to the numeral 7. Both symbols have their roots in the classical antiquity, and both signs were used up through the Middle Ages as a representation for the Latin word et (and). The ampersand often appeared as a letter at the end of the Latin alphabet, as for example in Byrhtferð's list of letters from 1011. Similarly, & was regarded as the 27th letter of the English alphabet, as used by children (in the US).
Over the next six centuries the ampersand gradually became more elaborate until we get the form of the symbol that is used today: The name for the symbol, “ampersand”, didn’t commonly come into use until the 19th century, from “and per se and”, meaning more or less: “and [the symbol] by itself is and”. Today I found out where the ampersand symbol and name came from. The symbol for “&” comes from combination of letters in the Latin for “and”, “et”. Specifically, in Old Roman cursive, it became common to combine e’s and t’s, which produced something like this:
URL example. Within a URL the ampersand is used to separate variables. For example, in the example below there are two different variables, q that equals example search and example that equals test. These variables can be read by the search.cgi script and used to perform different functions. Ampersand. The Ampersand (&) symbol, also referred to as the  epershand  or  and  symbol, is found above the number 7 key on a US QWERTY keyboard. In literature or English text, the ampersand is used as shorthand to mean and, as in John & Rob went to the baseball game
The word ampersand is a corruption of the phrase and (&) per se and, meaning and (the symbol &) intrinsically (is the word) and . The ampersand often appeared as a letter at the end of the Latin alphabet, as for example in Byrhtferð's list of letters from 1011. Similarly, & was regarded as the 27th letter of the English alphabet, as used by children (in the US).
The ampersand can be used to indicate that the and in a listed item is a part of the item's name and not a separator (e.g. Rock, pop, rhythm & blues, and hip hop). The ampersand may still be used as an abbreviation for and in informal writing regardless of how and is used. The ampersand often appeared as a letter at the end of the Latin alphabet, as for example in Byrhtferð's list of letters from 1011. Similarly, & was regarded as the 27th letter of the English alphabet, as used by children (in the US).
The word ampersand is not an acronym. It's the term used to describe this (&) symbol. An ampersand is usually used in the place of the word And.. For example, the fast food … restaurant A&W stands for Allen and Wright, the companies two founders. The symbol & was one of several used over history to stand for and. The name comes from contraction of and per se and, meaning (the character) '&' by itself is 'and.'  … The symbol is based on the Latin word et meaning and.
This page is about the meaning, origin and characteristic of the symbol, emblem, seal, sign, logo or flag: Ampersand. An ampersand (or epershand; &) is a logogram representing the conjunction word and. This symbol is a ligature of the letters et, Latin for and. Graphical characteristics: Asymmetric, Open shape, Monochrome, Contains both straight and curved lines, Has crossing lines. 