If necessary you can give twice this. I have heard from several rat owners that this liquid is not as palatable as the Doxysyrup, but it can be diluted with yummier liquid or mixed with food. If you mix 1 ml of the Doxyvet with 5 ml of flavoring, and then the dose is 0.3 ml/lb twice a day. . You can force this tiny drop into the back of a rat’s mouth and it’s too small to be spit out. The dose for ibuprofen is 15-60 mg/lb 2 to 4 times a day. You can use you can either crush up a tablet or use liquid baby medications if they do not contain sorbitol, an artificial sweetener that rats hate.
When the antibiotic is dissolved in a water-based solution, e.g., enrofloxacin, the formation of sterile abscesses can be avoided by diluting the amount to be given by the same amount of a sterile saline solution. Depending on the type of infection, daily or every 2nd day. To avoid problems of the digestive system (dysbiosis), probiotics can be given twice a day. Bicillin in mg/kg. (penicillin G procaine and penicillin G benzathine). (see: Remarks). *ONLY* as injection. for treatment of bacterial infections.
Antibiotics are used to treat bacterial infections. When needed for treatment of an infection in a rabbit, these drugs should be prescribed only by a veterinarian well-versed in rabbit medicine. Profuse, watery diarrhea (where there are NO normal or even slightly formed stools) in a rabbit is an extreme emergency (link to Medical FAQs on diarrhea) and death can occur in 24 to 48 hours after it first appears.
Antibiotics can disrupt the gut flora of rabbits, just like they can in humans. If you are giving your rabbit antibiotics, consider also giving your rabbit a probiotic to replenish the 'good bacteria' in the gut. You can give your rabbit chewable acidophilus tablets, available over the counter at your drugstore. Again, we are not vets. We can share that our bunnies are most often prescribed Baytril, Penicillin (in one of several forms), and TMS. Ask your vet about these antibiotics. Also, please see this excellent table of safe antibiotics for rabbits created by the House Rabbit Society.
Antibiotics are used to treat bacterial infections. When needed for treatment of an infection in a rabbit, these drugs should be prescribed only by a veterinarian well-versed in rabbit medicine. Infections caused by bacteria can occur anywhere in the body. Your bunny may act normal up to one to two days before a disaster strikes, at which point he or she will develop reduced activity, loss of appetite, watery diarrhea, rapid dehydration, and ultimately can die.
A review of rabbit physiology helps us to understand why antibiotic use in rabbits is associated with risk. Rabbits have an unusual digestive system, inhabited by a variety of essential microorganisms that work together to digest food. Your bunny may act normal up to one to two days before a disaster strikes, at which point he or she will develop reduced activity, loss of appetite, watery diarrhea, rapid dehydration, and ultimately can die.
Use all of the medication prescribed, or the infection is likely to recur or become worse. Do not give doxycycline during the first half of pregnancy since it can slow the growth, alter the skeleton, and yellow the teeth of unborn animals. Give only during the second half of pregnancy if benefits outweigh the risks. 
Not for use in animals hypersensitive (allergic) to it or other tetracyclines. Do not give during the first half of preg-nancy. Can slow the growth, alter the skeleton, and yellow the teeth of unborn animals. Give only during the second half of pregnancy if benefits outweigh the risks. Oral forms may be given with food to decrease side effects. CAUTION in CATS: If using a tablet or capsule form, you must also give a teaspoon of water after administering the pill, or the medication may cause damage to the esophagus.
Not all antibiotics are safe for use in rabbits. In fact, some antibiotics, when injected, can cause abscesses or even death. We've included links to other sites that list all the antibiotics that can and should be prescribed for rabbits at the bottom of this page. Read this Amoxicillin Warning. Again, we are not vets. We can share that our bunnies are most often prescribed Baytril, Penicillin (in one of several forms), and TMS. Ask your vet about these antibiotics. Also, please see this excellent table of safe antibiotics for rabbits created by the House Rabbit Society.
If your pet is being given any of these products and doxycycline, the doses should be separated by 2-3 hours. Doxycycline is usually not given with certain antibiotics such as penicillins, cephalosporins and aminoglycosides. Phenobarbital (an anti-seizure medication) can affect how your pet metabolizes doxycycline. How to Give this Medication. Give this medication to your pet exactly as your veterinarian prescribes. If you miss giving your pet a dose of doxycycline, give the next dose as soon as you remember or, if it is close to the next scheduled dose, return to the regular schedule.