Noun. 1. biodegradable pollution-pollution that is rendered harmless by natural processes and so causes no permanent harm. pollution-undesirable state of the natural environment being contaminated with harmful substances as a consequence of human activities. 
1. Biodegradable pollutants. 2. Non-biodegradable pollutants. 1. Biodegradable pollutants : Advertisements: Those pollutants which can be broken down into simpler, harmless, substances in nature in due course of time (by the action of micro-organisms like certain bacteria) are called biodegradable pollutants. This balance of the environment may be disturbed by the entrance of some harmful and unwanted components in the environment. These unwanted, harmful components make the environment polluted. This is called pollution.
From the biological point pollution can be of two types biodegradable and non-degradable pollutants. The degradable pollutants are those which can be degraded, decomposed, removed or reduced to acceptable limits either by the natural processes or by man-made systems like the sewage treatment plants. Biodegradable pollutants are those that can be broken down into simple elements and substances by the action of bacteria and other decomposers. These pollutants are degraded slowly by microbes.
Degradable pollutants can be of two types rapidly degradable or non-persistent pollutants and slowly degradable or persistent pollutants. Pollutants that are non-persistent are like sewage and agricultural waste can be normally decomposed quickly if the system is not overloaded. Biodegradable pollutants are those that can be broken down into simple elements and substances by the action of bacteria and other decomposers. These pollutants are degraded slowly by microbes.
A pollutant that is not broken down by natural processes is called non degradable pollutant,such as heavy metals which have high toxic content and are very persistent. Potentially polluting chemical that is broken down completely or reduced to acceptable levels by natural physical, chemical, and biological processes.
Degradable pollutants are organic substances like the wastes from sewage and industries and are dead organisms which can undergo decomposition naturally. Biodegradable pollutants include substances which can undergo physical degradation or decay. Biodegradable pollutants are those that can be broken down into simple elements and substances by the action of bacteria and other decomposers. These pollutants are degraded slowly by microbes.
Biodegradable substances are those pollutants which are decomposed or degraded by the action of microorganism. These waste products show quite rapid degradation. Generally these substances do not accumulate in the environment. These pollutants can be used to produce useful products like manure, compost and biogas. Biodegradable pollutants are those that can be broken down into simple elements and substances by the action of bacteria and other decomposers. These pollutants are degraded slowly by microbes.
(approx. 1 page at 300 words per page). A pollutant that is not broken down by natural processes. Some nondegradable pollutants, like the heavy metals, create problems because they are toxic and persistent in the environment. Others, like synthetic plastics, are a problem because of their sheer volume.