Dolomitic limestone is a type of rock that includes up to 50% dolomite. Normal limestone is primarily made up of calcite and aragonite, but dolomite forms in the stone when the calcium ions in the calcite part are replaced by magnesium ions — this process is called dolomitization.
Dolomite differs from Lime sand and Limestone in that it contains magnesium as well as calcium. It is used to supply both of these elements and is a very effective neutralizing agent. It is a carbonate limestone type product that should contain between 8-12% Magnesium as Mg and 18-22% Calcium as Ca. 
Dolomitic lime is made from dolomite, a type of rock very similar to limestone except it also contains magnesium. In North Carolina, dolomite is found only in the mountains. Both types of lime provide calcium for plants, but dolomitic lime also supplies magnesium, a nutrient often low in soils in our area. 
One thing Lime does not prevent is toxic salt build-up caused by fertiliser build-up or impure water. Builders Lime is NOT the same as Dolomite or Garden Lime and is therefore not safe for the garden. Builders lime is hydrated lime, made from limestone, from 'burnt lime' which is heated to make it more concentrated and then hydrated with water, very reactive and likely to cause root burn if you are not careful. 
Dolomite, also known as dolostone and dolomite rock, is a sedimentary rock composed primarily of the mineral dolomite, CaMg(CO 3) 2. Dolomite is found in sedimentary basins worldwide. It is thought to form by the postdepositional alteration of lime mud and limestone by magnesium-rich groundwater. Dolomite has a Mohs hardness of 3.5 to 4 and limestone (composed of the mineral calcite) has a hardness of 3. Dolomite is slightly less soluble in dilute hydrochloric acid. Calcite will effervesce vigorously in contact with cold, dilute (5%) hydrochloric acid, while dolomite produces a very weak effervescence.
It is calcium magnesium carbonate, CaMg(CO3)2. It has about 50% calcium carbonate and 40% magnesium carbonate, giving approximately 22% calcium and at least 11% magnesium. This can be bought for your garden in granulated form-can be very fine or course-or made into a prill. Dolomite lime fertilizer is not totally bad. The percentage ratio of dolomite lime is 2:1 calcium to magnesium. This is the main issue with this fertilizer. It contains too much magnesium, and although magnesium is important, too much of this mineral can lead to major issues like soil compaction and other problems, including weeds.
Dolomite is a type of rock that is similar to limestone, but which also contains large quantities of magnesium. Ground up dolomite is known as dolomitic aglime, which supplies both calcium and magnesium. Dolomite Lime. The most basic form of lime is a product known as aglime.. This is simply finely ground limestone that is bagged up and sold as a soil amendment. The composition of aglime varies according to the type of rock from which it is manufactured
What It Contains. Dolomite is a limestone compound that contains calcium and magnesium. The best mixtures contain 8 to 12 percent magnesium and 18 to 22 percent calcium. These elements help influence the pH of the soil and provide valuable nutrients to plants. Tomato vines benefit from the nutrients in dolomite. Dolomite, a type of limestone, provides valuable nutrients to plants and helps change the pH of the soil by raising it to match the plants' needs. It's sometimes called dolomitic lime or dolomitic limestone, and provides more nutrients than straight lime.