1 Preheat oven to 190°C, Fan 165°C, Gas 5. 2  Wash the apples, core and cut in half widthways. 3  Squeeze a little lemon juice over the apples to prevent them going brown, Spread a little butter over each apple, and fill the centre of the apple with about 2-3 sage leaves and dust with 1 tbsp brown sugar. 1 Place the apples onto a roasting tray. 2  Brush loin steaks with a little oil and season with salt and pepper. 3  Place steaks carefully into a hot frying pan and fry for 1 minute each side. 4  Remove from pan and place onto roasting tray beside apples.
4. Place pork loin roast onto a baking dish. Cook for 2 hours, turning at least once during that time. Baste frequently with pan drippings. With about 10 minutes of cooking time left, pour half of the wine over the meat. Arrange the apple slices on top of the pork. Put the lid on the dish. Cook in a preheated oven at 150°C, 300°F, gas mark 2 for about 2 hours. Check the liquid level from time to time and top it up if it starts to dry out.
Put the meat on top. Add the cider. Arrange the apple slices on top of the pork. Put the lid on the dish. Cook in a preheated oven at 150°C, 300°F, gas mark 2 for about 2 hours. Check the liquid level from time to time and top it up if it starts to dry out.
1/4 tsp. salt. 1/2 tsp. pepper. 1/2 tsp. meat tenderizer. 1/2 tsp. garlic salt. 1 tsp. Worcestershire sauce. Preheat oven at 350 degrees. Sprinkle meat on both sides with salt, pepper, meat tenderizer, garlic salt and Worcestershire sauce. Place steaks on foil lined cookie sheet. Bake 20-30 minutes, turning once. 
1 Brush loin steaks with a little oil and season with salt and pepper. 2  Place steaks carefully into a hot frying pan and fry for 1 minute each side. 3  Remove from pan and place onto roasting tray beside apples. 4  Cook in centre of oven for 20-25 minutes Serve with Buttered New Potatoes and a Selection of Seasonal Vegetables. 1 Place the apples onto a roasting tray. 2  Brush loin steaks with a little oil and season with salt and pepper. 3  Place steaks carefully into a hot frying pan and fry for 1 minute each side. 4
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Cajun Style: basic mix: 5 tbsp cayenne pepper; 3 tbsp each: black pepper, white pepper, garlic powder, onion powder; 1 tbsp salt, allspice. Cover both sides of steaks with seasoning mix and refrigerate over night. wash 2 medium sized yams and put in oven at 170 (F). 
1 Remove all packaging. 2  Preheat oven to 190°C, Fan 165°C, Gas 5. 3  Wash the apples, core and cut in half widthways. 4  Squeeze a little lemon juice over the apples to prevent them going brown, Spread a little butter over each apple, and fill the centre of the apple with about 2-3 sage leaves and dust with 1 tbsp brown sugar. 1 Place the apples onto a roasting tray. 2  Brush loin steaks with a little oil and season with salt and pepper. 3  Place steaks carefully into a hot frying pan and fry for 1 minute each side. 4  Remove from pan and place onto roasting tray beside apples.
Grill: For a charcoal grill, place meat on the rack of an uncovered grill directly over medium coals. Grill to desired doneness, turning once halfway through grilling. Allow 10 to 12 minutes for medium rare (145°F) or 12 to 15 minutes for medium(160°F). Place meat on grill rack over heat. Cover the grill.) Remove steaks from grill; cover and let stand for 5 minutes. For more tenderloin steak recipes, see: Grilled Steak and Peppers Grilled Beef Fillet with Portobello Relish Beef Tenderloins with Wine Sauce Try filet mignon! Our best filet mignon cooking tips.
Brush olive oil over the meat. 4. Place pork loin roast onto a baking dish. Cook for 2 hours, turning at least once during that time. Baste frequently with pan drippings. With about 10 minutes of cooking time left, pour half of the wine over the meat. 5. After the meat is cooked, remove it onto a serving platter. 6. Arrange the apple slices on top of the pork. Put the lid on the dish. Cook in a preheated oven at 150°C, 300°F, gas mark 2 for about 2 hours. Check the liquid level from time to time and top it up if it starts to dry out.
Let the tenderloin cool before serving. Pan-roasting pork tenderloin Preheat your oven to 425ºF and coat an ovenproof skillet with oil. Sear the tenderloin over medium-high heat until it’s brown on all sides. Roast the tenderloin for 15 to 20 minutes until the internal temperature reads 145ºF. Let it cool before serving. Stuffed pork tenderloin To butterfly the tenderloin, trim the silver skin with a thin sharp knife. You can grill it or roast it. Grilling pork tenderloin Always cook the tenderloin over indirect heat. Depending on its size, it usually takes 20 to 30 minutes over medium-high heat. Flip the tenderloin every 4 minutes until the internal temperature reaches 135ºF to 140ºF.