1. A half gallon of milk (in the paper carton, not plastic) got left in the car for 1.5 hours in about 80 degree (~27 °C) weather (evening so no direct sunlight). I like milk in any state. 1.5 hours for in paper carton would do no harm for pasteurized milk. It takes 2 or 3 days for milk to go sour. First it becomes of sour taste, being still liquid. It's safe to drink it, but it's not tasty
RE: Tested how long whole milk would spoil at room temp and... Of course I can't find it now, but I remember reading milk can be left out safely for up to 4 hours. If I find the article, I will come back and edit. :) Susan Mom to Nick 10/01 & Alex 04/04. 03-05-2006 #8. RE: Tested how long whole milk would spoil at room temp and... Yes, what your DH said is true. It's very possible for there to be enough bacteria already present to cause food poisoning but you not be able to taste it until much later. Marielle Ian-born 10/03 & Ryan-born 01/06.
RE: Tested how long whole milk would spoil at room temp and... http://www.fsis.usda.gov/Fact_Sheets...ency/index.asp 2 hours is the max you should leave most foods out at room temperature. Food poisoning can be VERY dangerous. RE: Tested how long whole milk would spoil at room temp and... Yes, what your DH said is true. It's very possible for there to be enough bacteria already present to cause food poisoning but you not be able to taste it until much later. Marielle Ian-born 10/03 & Ryan-born 01/06.
Whatever kind of milk it is, it should be OK for a couple of days, and it will still be usable for most purposes when it has developed a slight sour smell. When I was young we didn't have a fridge, milk would last a day and a half to two days in hot weather, longer if the bottle was wrapped in wet newspaper. I like milk in any state. 1.5 hours for in paper carton would do no harm for pasteurized milk. It takes 2 or 3 days for milk to go sour. First it becomes of sour taste, being still liquid. It's safe to drink it, but it's not tasty
Don't leave soy milk unrefrigerated. While it will not spoil if left out for an hour or two, those two unrefrigerated hours do shorten the life span of your soy milk. In fact, every hour on your counter equals one day off its life expectancy. 
That depends on how and where you store it. Under most conditions, breast milk stays fresh at room temperature (60 to 85 degrees Fahrenheit) for three to four hours. But expressed milk that has little bacteria can last for six to eight hours if room temperature remains on the cooler side. You can refrigerate breast milk for three to five days and freeze it to keep it fresh even longer. Thawed breast milk will keep in the refrigerator for up to 24 hours (but don't refreeze it). If you're traveling, you can store breast milk in an insulated cooler with ice packs for up to 24 hours
answers from Los Angeles on. It takes a whole lot longer than 2-4 hours for milk to spoil. Milk is good out at room temperature for up to 7 or 8 hours-it just isn't cold-and we've gotten used to milk being ice cold. 
Tested how long whole milk would spoil at room temp and... I searched all over the internet and couldn't find out exactly how long whole milk can stay at room temp before it spoils. So I put some out and smelled and tasted it every hour. Ten hours later, there was still not sour scent or taste. RE: Tested how long whole milk would spoil at room temp and... Yes, what your DH said is true. It's very possible for there to be enough bacteria already present to cause food poisoning but you not be able to taste it until much later. Marielle Ian-born 10/03 & Ryan-born 01/06.
If left out unrefrigerated, pasta will spoil within 24 hours.  However, if left in the fridge, the pasta will typically still be  OK 7 days later. Confidence votes 36.2K. Like many other questions about food-spoilage, this depends on the ambeint temperature where the milk has been stored. In a warm place it will spoil in less than a day. in a cool place it might last for several days.