Therefore it is very important you learn a quick way to learn lines as an actor! One way you could learn lines is to say it out loud and just read it. Despite this may seem simple, most find this a good way to learn lines. In some ways, writing or typing the lines help too. You could start off writing your lines by looking at them, and then soon without looking at them. Type them by yourself and see how far you remember. It is a very quick way, especially typing, and you begin to memorize what you are going to say.
Everyone may be in a play sometimes. Whether it's a school play or a National theater production, there is always one thing that actors don't like to do, learn lines. This is important because if one person doesn't learn their lines, the whole performance suffers. There is no fast track way, but here are some tips. If you enjoy doing it, you will be able to excel in it a lot easier. You will be able to learn the lines easier if you are enjoying it, otherwise, you will be bored and not able to concentrate on it for long.
Go through this chronologically, and soon you will be able to learn the entire lines by heart. Most of us know all the lyrics to our favorite song. It is amazing how we can remember lyrics with songs. You can do the same thing with learning lines. Try and alter the lines into a song, with some kind of tune, and sing it. In some ways, writing or typing the lines help too. You could start off writing your lines by looking at them, and then soon without looking at them. Type them by yourself and see how far you remember. It is a very quick way, especially typing, and you begin to memorize what you are going to say.
They have the script and you do your lines. One of my directors had us do a fast forward version of the play to help us learn lines. Each person would say their lines as quickly as possible-no blocking, no acting, just lines.
1 Read the script out loud before you go to sleep and read it to other people. 2  This will help you learn how to play your part and memorize your lines. 3  Sing your lines. 4  Get a track without words then just sing your lines to it. 5  If you can't find a track without words just go to YouTube and search for a tune that you know. If you enjoy doing it, you will be able to excel in it a lot easier. You will be able to learn the lines easier if you are enjoying it, otherwise, you will be bored and not able to concentrate on it for long.
You have no idea how you are going to learn the lines this quickly. Maybe you’ve tried putting the script under your pillow hoping to learn the lines by osmosis (doesn’t work), or you’ve tried having your four roommates sing your lines to you at three in the morning (totally creepy).
human mind does not remember common things better you divide your lines. like part 1) few lines with similar topic thats easy for you to remember then 2) with diffrent topic and so on. then you attach the topic of the part 1) in a ridiculous manner with the number 1. and do this with all the topics you made. Its eay as i do this reularly. Best Answer: Here is what I do: 1. Read some of your lines in your head. 2. Then read them out loud. 3. Write them with looking if you need to. 4. Write them without looking. If you need to look, put that part in a different color so you remember to pay special attention to it.
3. Record your lines. Use an MP3 player or something to record yourself reading all the lines (with gaps of silence where you're supposed to talk). You can then play it while driving or exercising and say your lines in your head. You learn your lines as well as the other actors' cue lines. It's like learning the lyrics to a song; the more you listen to it, the better you are at singing along with the recording. 1  Record it on your phone (one sentence at a time) and play it again and again then join in and then try without it. 1. Practice with a partner. Ask the other person to read your script while you rehearse it to them. Ask them to highlight or circle parts that you skipped or jumbled the words. 1  If you don't have a partner there are a bunch of apps for your phone that can help your memorize and rehearse
1 Cover your lines and write the whole scene down, then check to see if you got it right. 2  Read the script out loud before you go to sleep and read it to other people. 3  This will help you learn how to play your part and memorize your lines. 4  Sing your lines. 5  Get a track without words then just sing your lines to it. If you enjoy doing it, you will be able to excel in it a lot easier. You will be able to learn the lines easier if you are enjoying it, otherwise, you will be bored and not able to concentrate on it for long.