2.1 Arsenic is found in the natural environment in some abundance in the Earth’s crust and in small quantities in rock, soil, water and air. It is present in many different minerals. About one third of the arsenic in the atmosphere comes from natural sources, such as volcanoes, and the rest comes from man-made sources. 
Arsenic trioxide is also important as a raw material for products containing arsenic. Because arsenic is an element like carbon and oxygen it does not break down in the environment into simpler substances-though it can change form and combine with other elements into molecules that have different chemical properties. Some forms of arsenic are quite toxic; others are less so. Most arsenic compounds are undetectable to the senses, since they have no smell or taste. But when arsenic is heated-by bright sunlight or in a laboratory experiment-it passes directly from its solid state to a gas and gives off a distinctive garlic odor.
Key facts. 1  Arsenic is naturally present at high levels in the groundwater of a number of countries. 2  Arsenic is highly toxic in its inorganic form. 3  Contaminated water used for drinking, food preparation and irrigation of food crops poses the greatest threat to public health from arsenic. It is highly toxic in its inorganic form. People are exposed to elevated levels of inorganic arsenic through drinking contaminated water, using contaminated water in food preparation and irrigation of food crops, industrial processes, eating contaminated food and smoking tobacco.
Inorganic arsenic (arsenate and arsenite salts) are more harmful than organic arsenic exposure. Organic arsenic is 500 times less harmful than inorganic arsenic, and is a minor problem compared to the groundwater situation which affects many millions of people. Thus although arsenic poisoning can be related to human activities such as mining and ore smelting, the most serious problems are natural, resulting from water wells drilled into aquifers that have high concentrations of arsenic.
1 Arsenic is naturally present at high levels in the groundwater of a number of countries. 2  Arsenic is highly toxic in its inorganic form. 3  Contaminated water used for drinking, food preparation and irrigation of food crops poses the greatest threat to public health from arsenic. It is highly toxic in its inorganic form. People are exposed to elevated levels of inorganic arsenic through drinking contaminated water, using contaminated water in food preparation and irrigation of food crops, industrial processes, eating contaminated food and smoking tobacco.
Definition. Arsenic is an element and a naturally occurring mineral found widely in the environment. Arsenic mineral ores, orpiment (left) and realgar (right). Environmental sources of arsenic exposure are. Because it is an element, arsenic persists in the environment and does not deteriorate. 1  food, 2  water, 3  soil, and.
Share. Arsenic is an element that is extremely toxic to human health. Despite this, or maybe because of it, humans have used arsenic in many capacities-as an insecticide, as a toxic agent of war, and even as a wood preservation. However, its use in countless industrial applications has contributed to pollution at all levels.
中国 (Chinese). Arsenic is present in the environment as a naturally occurring substance or as a result of contamination from human activity. It is found in water, air, food, and soil in organic and inorganic forms. 
Breathing. Arsenic in food or water does not evaporate into the air. However, burning arsenic-containing materials such as treated lumber will put arsenic fumes into the air. Burning treated wood in a wood stove or fireplace may expose people to dangerous levels of arsenic. Drinking/Eating. Marine fish and seafood contain naturally high amounts of arsenic. However, the arsenic in these foods is a non-toxic form called fish arsenic.. Calcium supplements made from seashells may also contain high