Greek Meaning: The name Vanessa is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Vanessa is: Butterfly. Also, from Phanessa, the mystic goddess of an ancient Greek brotherhood. American Meaning: The name Vanessa is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Vanessa is: Butterfly. Also, from Phanessa, the mystic goddess of an ancient Greek brotherhood. Latin Meaning: The name Vanessa is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Vanessa is: Of Venus
Look up Vanessa in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. Vanessa is a feminine given name, especially popular in the United States, Germany and Brazil. It was invented by the Anglo-Irish writer Jonathan Swift for Esther Vanhomrigh, whom Swift had met in 1708 and whom he tutored. The name was created by taking  Van  from Vanhomrigh's last name and adding Essa, a pet form of Esther. In 1726 the name Vanessa appeared in print for the first time in Cadenus and Vanessa, an autobiographical poem about Swift's relationship with Vanhomrigh. Swift had written the poem in 1713, but it was not published until three years after Vanhomrigh di
Name Phanessa generally means Appear, is of English, Greek, Indian origin, Name Phanessa is a Feminine (or Girl) name. Person with name Phanessa are mainly Christian by religion. Find Rashi, Numerology, Lucky number, lucky days, lucky color, Auspicious stones for Phanessa or Find Chinese zodiac sign or Birthstone for your birthday.
Also, from Phanessa, the mystic goddess of an ancient Greek brotherhood. Based on our research, most people would imagine a person with the name Vanessa to be: A slim and attractive woman. Latin meaning: The name Vanessa comes from the Latin origin. In Latin the meaning of the name Vanessa is: Of Venus. 
Etymology & Historical Origin-Vanessa. Interestingly enough, the name Vanessa was invented by the Anglo-Irish writer Jonathan Swift in the early 18th century for a young woman he tutored who would later become his longtime lover, Esther Vanhomrigh. Swift took the first part of Esther’s last name and added the suffix “essa” as a pet form of her first name.
Database of baby names has been compiled from various references and suggestions provided by our web site visitors and resources partners. Meaning of Phanessa in Greek origin/culture for Girl name with history and fame details. 
Also possibly an early-18th-century literary name of English origin created by Jonathan Swift for Gulliver's Travels as a pseudonym for Esther Vanhomrigh, based on the first syllable of her surname, and possibly the Latin verb esse, meaning to be. Jenessa, Vanita and Vannaleigh are compound forms. Vanessa /va-nes-sa/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced va-NESS-ah. It is of Greek origin, and the meaning of Vanessa is butterfly. The name of a genus of butterflies that includes the Red Admiral and the Painted Lady