Abnormality in ECG report generally means that the electrical system of your heart is not working properly. Abnormal ECG results may indicate heart block, Tachycardia, Bradycardia, Premature atrial contraction, heart attack and many other heart conditions. A heart doctor interprets ECG results to diagnose the medical condition of a patient. This is done by comparing your ECG graph with a normal or standard heart graph.
1 Defects or abnormalities in the heart’s shape and size. 2  An abnormal EKG can signal that one or more aspects of the heart’s walls are larger than another. 3  This can signal that the heart is working harder than normal to pump blood. 4  Electrolyte imbalances. 1 An EKG can determine if the heart is beating too fast or too slow. 2  Heart rhythm abnormalities. 3  A heart typically beats in a steady rhythm. 4  An EKG can reveal if the heart is beating out of rhythm or sequence. 5  Medication side effects.
EKGs monitor and record your heart's rhythm and functioning. An abnormal EKG means a problem, whether its big or small, was found. An abnormal reading can indicate a heart murmur or arrythmia, damage to the heart from a past heart attack, or indicate a blockage. redhead77 · 9 years ago. Thumbs up
Guide. An electrocardiogram (EKG or ECG) is a test that checks for problems with the electrical activity of your heart. An EKG shows the heart 's electrical activity as line tracings on paper. The spikes and dips in the tracings are called waves. The heart is a muscular pump made up of four chambers. An EKG is done to: 1  Check the heart's electrical activity. 2  Find the cause of unexplained chest pain or pressure. 3  Find the cause of symptoms of heart disease. 4  Find out if the walls of the heart chambers are too thick. 5  Check how well medicines are working and see if they are causing side effects that affect the heart. 6  Check how well mechanical 7  ... Che
An abnormal EKG can mean many things. Sometimes EKG abnormalities are a normal variation of a heart’s rhythm, which does not affect your health. Other times, an abnormal EKG can signal a medical emergency, such as a myocardial infarction (heart attack) or a dangerous arrhythmia. 1 An EKG can determine if the heart is beating too fast or too slow. 2  Heart rhythm abnormalities. 3  A heart typically beats in a steady rhythm. 4  An EKG can reveal if the heart is beating out of rhythm or sequence. 5  Medication side effects.
Results. An electrocardiogram (EKG or ECG) is a test that checks for problems with the electrical activity of your heart. An EKG shows the heart's electrical activity as line tracings on paper. The spikes and dips in the line tracings are called waves. 1 | 2 | 3 | 4.
Electrocardiogram Definition. A recording of the electrical activity of the heart. Abbreviated ECG and EKG. An ECG is a simple, noninvasive procedure. Electrodes are placed on the skin of the chest and connected in a specific order to a machine that, when turned on, measures electrical activity all over the heart.
— Ann, Connecticut. Yes, Ann, a cardiologist should interpret an abnormal EKG, a recording of the electrical activity of the heart, taking into account your overall health. An abnormal EKG does not necessarily indicate life-threatening heart disease or any heart disease at all, for that matter. In fact, EKGs can be abnormal for many reasons, and a cardiologist is most qualified to figure out why. 
An electrocardiogram (ECG or EKG), is a measurement of the electrical activity of the heart. By placing electrodes at specific locations on the body (chest, arms, and legs), a graphic representation, or tracing, of the electrical activity can be obtained. 