Note: If the original function is a one-to-one function, the inverse will be a function. Definition: The inverse of a function is the set of ordered pairs obtained by interchanging the first and second elements of each pair in the original function. Should the inverse of function f (x) also be a function, this inverse function is denoted by f -1(x). Note: If the original function is a one-to-one function, the inverse will be a function. [The notation f -1(x) refers to inverse function. Use the horizontal line test to determine if a function is a one-to-one function. If ANY horizontal line intersects your original function in ONLY ONE location, your function will be a one-to-one function and its inverse will also
Like functions in programming languages, SQL Server user-defined functions are routines that accept parameters, perform an action, such as a complex calculation, and return the result of that action as a value. The return value can either be a single scalar value or a result set. 
Functions are self contained modules of code that accomplish a specific task. Functions usually take in data, process it, and return a result. Once a function is written, it can be used over and over and over again. Functions can be called from the inside of other functions. In other words, function_1 can use a variable called i, and function_2 can also use a variable called i and there is no confusion. Each variable i only exists when the computer is executing the given function. Functions allow us to test small parts of our program in isolation from the rest.
The inverse of a function may not always be a function! The original function must be a one-to-one function to guarantee that its inverse will also be a function. Definition: A function is a one-to-one function if and only if each second element corresponds to one and only one first element. Use the horizontal line test to determine if a function is a one-to-one function. If ANY horizontal line intersects your original function in ONLY ONE location, your function will be a one-to-one function and
The input and output of a function can be expressed as an ordered pair, ordered so that the first element is the input (or tuple of inputs, if the function takes more than one input), and the second is the output. In the example above, f (x) = x 2, we have the ordered pair (−3, 9). An inverse function for f, denoted by f −1, is a function in the opposite direction, from Y to X, satisfying. That is, the two possible compositions of f and f −1 need to be the respective identity maps of X and Y.
So, in this case, the relation is not a function. (You can also check this by using our first definition from above. Think of x = –1. Then we get y2 – 3 = 6, so y2 = 9, and then y can be either –3 or +3. 
In mathematics, a function is a relation between a set of inputs and a set of permissible outputs with the property that each input is related to exactly one output. An example is the function that relates each real number x to its square x 2. An inverse function for f, denoted by f −1, is a function in the opposite direction, from Y to X, satisfying. That is, the two possible compositions of f and f −1 need to be the respective identity maps of X and Y.
Generally speaking, a function is a subprogram that can be called by code external (or internal in the case of recursion) to the function. Like the program itself, a function is composed of a sequence of statements called the function body. Values can be passed to a function, and the function can return a value. In JavaScript, functions are first-class objects, i.e. they are objects and can be manipulated and passed around just like any other object. Specifically, they are Function objects
As the 4th example shows, the function name can be different from the variable the function is assigned to. They have no relation to each other.A function declaration also creates a variable with the same name as the function name. Values can be passed to a function, and the function can return a value. In JavaScript, functions are first-class objects, i.e. they are objects and can be manipulated and passed around just like any other object.