wage. n. 1. A regular payment, usually on an hourly, daily, or weekly basis, made by an employer to an employee, especially for manual or unskilled work. 2. wages The price of labor in an economy. minimum wage-the lowest wage that an employer is allowed to pay; determined by contract or by law. pay envelope, pay packet-wages enclosed in an envelope for distribution to the wage earner. sick pay-wages paid to an employee who is on sick leave.
Definition. The term “hourly wage” describes a rate an employer agrees to pay a worker per hour worked, such as $12 per hour or $17.50 per hour. The “average” or “mean” is an estimated hourly rate calculated using the varying hourly rates of a group of workers in a specific occupation. Calculate Average. Average hourly waged earned is calculated by adding the hourly wages of the group and dividing by the number of people in it. For example, you might want to determine the average hourly wage earned by secretaries in a company. The first secretary earned $35 per hour, the second $10 per hour, the third $12 per hour, the fourth $9 per hour and the fifth $11 per hour
Add to Watchlists. US Average Hourly Earnings is at a current level of 25.09, down from 25.10 last month. This represents a monthly annualized growth rate of -0.48%, compared to a long term average annualized growth rate of 2.36%. 1  Category: Hours and Wages. 2  Region: United States. 3  Report: Employment Situation. 4  Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics. 
Analysis of the Indicator: High rates of growth of average hourly earnings (AHE) (wage inflation) would lead to higher inflation if the wage growth is above productivity growth. A related measure of wage cost growth closely watched by the Fed is the Employment Cost Index (ECI). Compared to the ECI that is published only quarterly, the strenght of the average hourly earnings measure it that is published monthly and is an early indicator of wage growth in the previous month. However, compared to the ECI, AHE has several weaknesses
The average amount employees make per hour in the United States in a given month. It is calculated by the Bureau of Labor Statistics each month; the Federal Reserve uses average hourly earnings in deciding whether to raise or lower interest rates. 1  Facebook. 
Definition: Average hourly earnings (AHE) is an important indicator of labor cost inflation and of the tightness of labor markets-something the Federal Reserve pays close attention to when setting interest rates. Related Indicators: Employment Cost Index (ECI) , Employment-Payroll Jobs, Unemployment Rate. A related measure of wage cost growth closely watched by the Fed is the Employment Cost Index (ECI). Compared to the ECI that is published only quarterly, the strenght of the average hourly earnings measure it that is published monthly and is an early indicator of wage growth in the previous month.
Glossary Economy. average hourly earnings. A monthly report on the previous month's average hourly payroll earnings for production and non-supervisory non-farm workers. The data are part of the employment Report that is released by the Bureau of Labor statistics on the first Friday of each month. The report is available at a number of financial information Web sites and at www.bls.gov. See Average Workweek; total Non-Form Payrolls; unemployment rate.
Definition. A monthly report on the previous month's average hourly payroll earnings for production and non-supervisory non-farm workers. The data are part of the Employment Report that is released by the Bureau of Labor Statistics on the first Friday of each month. URL to this page: http://www.investorwords.com/12635/average_hourly_earnings.html. Copyright © 2015 by WebFinance, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Reproduction of all or part of this glossary, in any format, without the written consent of WebFinance, Inc. is prohibited.