At the request of the captain of the Vulkhel Watch, I've been running errands all over Auridon's port city. I even helped a watchman deal with a cornered man, who claimed that the Captain has been co-opted by a group called the Veiled Heritance. 
Text of the Quest: A Hostile Situation At the request of the captain of the Vulkhel Watch, I've been running errands all over Auridons port city. I even helped a watchman deal with a cornered man, who claimed that the Captain has been co-opted by a group called the Veiled Heritance. I need to discover if Fasions claims are true. 
The Shaba National Reserve was gazetted in 1974. It is administered by the Isiolo County Council. It is just east of Samburu and 70 kilometres (43 mi) to the north of Mount Kenya. The Ewaso Ngiro river runs for 34 kilometres (21 mi) along the northern boundary of the reserve. Annual rainfall is between 250 millimetres (9.8 in) and 500 millimetres (20 in). The soils are sandy, volcanic in origin. The reserve is semi desert, dotted with isolated hills and plentiful springs.
Shabba Ranks (born Rexton Rawlston Fernando Gordon, 17 January 1966) is a Jamaican dancehall musician. He was one of the most popular dancehall artists of his generation. Shabba released a single on Big Ship's Pepper Riddim called None A Dem, in April 2011. In 2012, Shabba was featured on Tech N9ne 's EP E.B.A.H. on the track Boy Toy. In 2013, Shabba was also mentioned in A$AP Ferg 's song  Shabba , and is portrayed in the music video by model and socialite Ian Connors. He was featured in the remix alongside Migos and Busta Rhymes on 23 November 2013
Eshaba is a Khajiit located in the city of Vulkhel Guard, in Auridon. She is found near the clothing station, and will ask if the Vestige is after something special. She is a member of Queen Ayrenn's intelligence arm, the Eyes of the Queen. 
The Elder Scrolls series’s popularity is frequently attributed to multiple factors, but one of the most important is the rich lore that gives a detailed historical backdrop to each story. This is no different in The Elder Scrolls Online (ESO). Lore books are scattered throughout Tamriel and they occasionally allude to previous games, which are actually set in the future relative to ESO. Legend of the Ghost Snake-Found in the Deshaan area, south of Narsis. It is tucked behind a tree, sitting on a crate. The NPC Donen Llervu can be seen in front of the tree in golden armor. Shad Astula Academy Handbook-Found in the Deshaan area, in the Narsis village on the west side of the map.
Eshaba is a Khajiit merchant in central Vulkhel Guard. She is quite confident in the breadth of her selection: Eshaba has just about anything you could want. 
At the request of the captain of the Vulkhel Watch, I’ve been running errands all over Auridon’s port city. I even helped a watchman deal with a cornered man, who claimed that the Captain has been co-opted by a group called the Veiled Heritance. Starting NPC: 3 thoughts on “ A Hostile Situation ”. I had to abandon the quest at the merchant Eshaba, How do I get it back I tries to go to the Jail and to the bank but no Razum-dar. pls help.