The Bundoora campus, in the north-eastern suburbs of Melbourne, is set in a tranquil parkland environment complete with outdoor sporting facilities for football, athletics, tennis and netball. Eighteen kilometres north-east of Melbourne city centre, the campus is divided into East and West by Plenty Road. Our Bundoora campus is a vibrant centre of learning set in a tranquil, tree-studded setting. Maps and buildings. 1  Local sights and attractions Situated on Melbourne’s urban fringes, the leafy suburb of Bundoora is well established to cater for the needs of students.
Bundoora is situated on the traditional lands of the Wurundjeri people, and the name Bundoora is derived from Kelbundoora, the name of a 19th-century Wurundjeri man. The most common ancestries in Bundoora were Australian 16.4%, English 15.1%, Italian 10.7%, Chinese 9.1% and Irish 5.8%. 1 RMIT University 's Bundoora West Campus is located at the terminus of the tramline. 2  Further down the road is the East Campus area, home of RMIT's Wind Tunnel. 3  It is also home of the RMIT University Sports Statistics Research Group.
The Bundoora campus is 18 kilometres north-east of Melbourne's city centre, along Plenty Road. Our Bundoora campus is a vibrant centre of learning set in a tranquil, tree-studded setting. Maps and buildings. 1  Local sights and attractions Situated on Melbourne’s urban fringes, the leafy suburb of Bundoora is well established to cater for the needs of students.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The City of Banyule is a local government area in Victoria, Australia in the north-eastern suburbs of Melbourne. It has an area of 63 square kilometres (24.3 sq mi) and lies between 7 and 21 km from central Melbourne. At the 2011 Census, Banyule had a population of 118,306. The Yarra River runs along the City’s south border while the west is defined by the Darebin Creek.
The Melbourne Bundoora campus is 18 kilometres north-east of Melbourne’s city centre – a relaxing environment surrounded by open spaces and native parklands. Visit us. Features and facilities. 1  Maps and buildings Our Bundoora campus is a vibrant centre of learning set in a tranquil, tree-studded setting. Maps and buildings. 1  Local sights and attractions Situated on Melbourne’s urban fringes, the leafy suburb of Bundoora is well established to cater for the needs of students.
Bundoora is a suburb of Melbourne, Victoria, Australia, 16 km north from Melbourne's Central Business District. Its local government areas are the Cities of Banyule, Darebin and Whittlesea. At the 2011 Census, Bundoora had a population of 25,709. 1 RMIT University 's Bundoora West Campus is located at the terminus of the tramline. 2  Further down the road is the East Campus area, home of RMIT's Wind Tunnel. 3  It is also home of the RMIT University Sports Statistics Research Group.
Cafe. Situated in what was originally the Billiards Room the Bundoora Homestead Art Centre cafe serves a variety of light meals, afternoon tea and hot and cold drinks. We also have a range of Australian wines and beers. The cafe café hours are 11am to 3pm-Wednesday friday and 12noon to 4pm On saturday And. sunday 
Bundoora is the headquarters of La Trobe University, Bundoora Campus. Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology (RMIT) also has a campus situated in Bundoora. The word Bundoora is derived from Kelbundoora, the name of a 19th-century Wurundjeri tribesman. 1 RMIT University 's Bundoora West Campus is located at the terminus of the tramline. 2  Further down the road is the East Campus area, home of RMIT's Wind Tunnel. 3  It is also home of the RMIT University Sports Statistics Research Group.
We're located in Melbourne's north-eastern suburb of Bundoora, at the intersection of Plenty Road and Kingsbury Drive, just 14 km from the city centre (Melways ref: 19 G7 – see Google Map below). 