Harmful bacteria may also emit toxins that damage the body. Common pathogenic bacteria and the types of bacterial diseases they cause include: Escherichia coli and Salmonella cause food poisoning. Helicobacter pylori cause gastritis and ulcers. Neisseria gonorrhoeae causes the sexually transmitted disease gonorrhea. Neisseria meningitidis causes meningitis. 
This is the bacterium that causes cholera. The germ theory of disease states that some diseases are caused by microorganisms. These small organisms, too small to see without magnification, invade humans, animals, and other living hosts. Their growth and reproduction within their hosts can cause a disease. The germ theory was proposed in the mid-16th century and gained widespread credence when substantiated by scientific discoveries of the 17th through the late 19th century. It supplanted earlier explanations for disease, such as Galen's miasma theory.
The signs (symptoms) of this disease include: Ross River virus disease is caused by a virus germ which is transmitted from animals to people by a number of different types of mosquitoes. Ross River virus can occur in most areas of Australia. There are many germs inside the human body which may not cause disease. There are even some germs which help parts of the body to work properly. The gut, for example, cannot digest food properly without the help of certain ‘good’ bacteria.
Bacteria. Once you are infected bacteria grow and reproduce inside the cells of your body. As they grow and divide, many bacteria make toxins (poisons). These toxins can damage your cells. Some bacteria damage your cells directly as they grow. Disease symptoms such as a high temperature, headaches and rashes can be caused by the damage and toxins or by the way your body responds to the damage and toxins produced by the bacteria. 
Food poisoning is usually caused by bacterial germs. There are different kinds of bacterial germs which can cause food poisoning, for example, Salmonella, Staphylococcus, Clostridium, Shigella, Campylobacter and Bacillus. Some viruses also cause food poisoning. There are many germs inside the human body which may not cause disease. There are even some germs which help parts of the body to work properly. The gut, for example, cannot digest food properly without the help of certain ‘good’ bacteria.
Because viruses, bacteria, and fungi cause many well-known diseases, it is common to confuse them, but they are as different as a mouse and an elephant. A look at the size, structure, reproduction, hosts, and diseases caused by each will shed some light on the important differences between these germs. The term 'germ' actually refers to any microorganism, especially those microorganisms that cause disease. Included in this category are certain viruses, bacteria, and fungi.
Although most bacteria are harmless or often beneficial, several are pathogenic. One of the bacterial diseases with the highest disease burden is tuberculosis, caused by the bacterium Mycobacterium tuberculosis, which kills about 2 million people a year, mostly in sub-Saharan Africa. Pathogenic bacteria contribute to other globally important diseases, such as pneumonia, which can be caused by bacteria such as Streptococcus and Pseudomonas, and foodborne illnesses, which can be caused by bacteria such as Shigella, Campylobacter, and Salmonella.
Gastroenteritis (gastro) is a disease caused by a virus germ in faeces. People can become infected with this germ when they eat food or lick fingers or use eating equipment, such as knives, forks, plates and cups, which are contaminated with the germ. There are many germs inside the human body which may not cause disease. There are even some germs which help parts of the body to work properly. The gut, for example, cannot digest food properly without the help of certain ‘good’ bacteria.
1 Most of these diseases are infections, caused by a variety of bacteria, viruses, and parasites that can be foodborne. 2  Other diseases are poisonings, caused by harmful toxins or chemicals that have contaminated the food, for example, poisonous mushrooms. 