If your TSH level is very low, the doctor may want to also check your T3 and T4 hormone levels as he or she works towards a diagnosis of Graves’ disease. of T3 and T4 are needed to regulate your body’s metabolism at the cellular level, so in the blood test, your doctor will be looking for abnormal levels.
Sometimes, your doctor might also order a T4 test and/or a TSH test. T4, or thyroxine, is another hormone produced by your thyroid. TSH (thyroid stimulating hormone) is the hormone that stimulates your thyroid to produce T3 and T4.
Sometimes, your doctor might also order a test for T3 and/or TSH. The TSH, or thyroid-stimulating hormone, stimulates your thyroid to release both T3 and T4. Performing one or both of these other tests may help your doctor gain a better understanding of your thyroid problem.
Thyroid hormone blood tests include: 1  Total thyroxine (T4). 2  Most of the thyroxine (T4) in the blood is attached to a protein called thyroxine-binding globulin. 3  Less than 1% of the T4 is unattached. 4  A total T4 blood test measures both bound and free thyroxine.
Graves’ Disease Blood Tests. Your doctor or endocrinologist will draw your blood in order to test certain hormone levels. He or she may want to measure the thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH), T3 (triiodothyronine), and T4 (thyroxine) hormone levels. T3 and T4 are the major hormones produced by your thyroid.
Your doctor may also order a T4 test. Most of the T4 in your blood attaches to a protein, and when it does, it can’t get into your cells. Only T4 that is unattached or “free” can get into your cells to go to work. A blood test can measure how much free T4 is available.
TSH stimulates the production and release of T4 (primarily) and T3 from the thyroid gland. Most of the T4 and T3 circulates in the blood bound to protein, while a small percentage is free (not bound). Blood tests can measure total T4, free T4, total T3, or free T3. The total T4 test has been used for many years, but it can be affected by the amount of protein available in the blood to bind to the hormone. Free T4 is not affected by protein levels and is the active form of thyroxine.