Alkyds generally require six to eight hours to dry to the touch, but second coats should not be applied for at least 16 hours. Like alkyds, oil-based enamels require six to eight hours to dry to the touch, and you should wait 16 hours or more between coats. Shellac is sometimes used in faux and special painting techniques.
-- Eliza. Answer: How long it takes for a coat or layer of oil paint to dry to the stage where you can apply another coat depends on the technique you're using. Oil paints can be used wet on wet, thick on thin, or wet on dry. If you're painting glazes, you need to wait until the paint is thoroughly dry, so think at least a day rather than an hour. Test the paint to see if it's dry with your finger. If it's too sticky, you need to leave it for longer.
Latex. Latex paint is water-based and, in general, the fastest drying of all interior paint formulations. It comes in various finishes, from flat to satin and high gloss, but all require only about one hour to dry to the touch under ideal conditions. Like alkyds, oil-based enamels require six to eight hours to dry to the touch, and you should wait 16 hours or more between coats. Shellac is sometimes used in faux and special painting techniques.
Although your walls may feel dry to the touch soon after applying the first coat, wait until the paint has had enough time to cure fully before applying the second coat. Typically, your second coat of latex paint can be applied two to four hours after the first coat. The process of applying a second coat of colored paint to your interior walls is the same as you used for the first coat. The tricky part is keeping track of where you’ve painted. Begin at the top corner of one wall with an angled brush and cut in along the trim and in the corners.
For a paint to be considered dry, enough solvents must evaporate so it feels dry to the touch. Paint doesn’t cure, or reach maximum hardness, until days after the paint is dry. Oil-based paints cure faster (in about 7 days) than latex paints (in about 30 days). A latex paint is usually dry to the touch in about an hour, and you can safely recoat in 4 hours. However, the labels on all paint cans specify the dry and recoat times for that particular paint, so be sure to read the manufacturer’s directions for exact times. 2. Application of Paint.
Generally, if you’re using an oil-based paint, expect it to be dry to the touch in 6–8 hours and ready to recoat in 24 hours. A latex paint is usually dry to the touch in about an hour, and you can safely recoat in 4 hours. However, the labels on all paint cans specify the dry and recoat times for that particular paint, so be sure to read the manufacturer’s directions for exact times. 2. Application of Paint.
The purpose for letting your paint dry before a second coat is to let it set and cure. A full cure will take about a week. However for a second coat during the winter time, you should let it dry for a day. If you don't you will run the risk of it peeling from the moisture left in the first coat in a week to a month.
The same latex-based paint that requires four hours dry time at 75 degrees Fahrenheit may take six hours or more at 50 degrees. Alkyds and oil-based enamels that take 16 hours to dry at 75 degrees could take as long as 48 hours to dry at 50 degrees. Like alkyds, oil-based enamels require six to eight hours to dry to the touch, and you should wait 16 hours or more between coats. Shellac is sometimes used in faux and special painting techniques.
Oil paints take longer to dry, to recoat and to cure. The first coat will take 12 to 24 hours to dry enough to apply a second coat. Oil paint also cures by binding with oxygen. I have read if you thin your oil paint, you can paint 2 thin layers instead of 1 or 2 thick layers. The thinned paint dries in less time. This isn’t the same as it being cured. Latex paint can be painted with a second coat after about 6 hours. It takes about 30 days for the paint to fully cure; meaning that you can wash spots off your wall without damaging your paint finish.