Split and merge into it. Answer by Philip Green. Polycythemia Vera is not hereditary. Polycythemia Vera (PV) a rare and serious, blood disorder that can be deadly if not diagnosed and treated properly. Polycythemia Vera (PV) or Primary Polycythemia is a blood disorder in which bone marrow makes too many red blood cells. The symptoms of Polycythemia Vera are not visible for many years and it develops very slowly. Lots of people find out about their PV from blood tests done for other reasons
Polycythemia vera is a condition characterized by an increased number of red blood cells in the bloodstream. Affected individuals may also have excess white blood cells and blood clotting cells called platelets. These extra cells cause the blood to be thicker than normal. Most cases of polycythemia vera are not inherited. This condition is associated with genetic changes that are somatic, which means they are acquired during a person's lifetime and are present only in certain cells.
Familial erythrocytosis is an inherited condition characterized by an increased number of red blood cells (erythrocytes). The primary function of these cells is to carry oxygen from the lungs to tissues and organs throughout the body. 
It is also sometimes called erythrocytosis, which means too many red blood cells. And it used to be called polycythaemia rubra vera or PCRV. PV is a type of rare blood disorder called a myeloproliferative neoplasm. These are conditions that cause an increase in the number of blood cells. 
Polycythemia is a blood condition in which the bone marrow makes excess blood cells, primarily red blood cells, but also platelets and white blood cells. The extra cells cause a thickening of the blood, which increases the risk of blood clotting, in turn potentially causing strokes, heart attacks, and other complications. While the exact cause of polycythemia is not known, genetic changes are thought to be related to its development.
hereditary polycythemia. Some mutations that can result in increased red blood cell numbers. One such mutation increases the efficiency of a hormone secreted from the kidneys, called erythropoietin (EPO), to stimulate the bone marrow to produce more red blood cells. 
Polycythemia (also known as polycythaemia or polyglobulia) is a disease state in which the proportion of blood volume that is occupied by red blood cells increases. Blood volume proportions can be measured as hematocrit. The emergency treatment of polycythemia (e.g., in hyperviscosity or thrombosis) is by venesection, the removal of blood from the circulation. Depending on the underlying cause, venesection may also be used on a regular basis to reduce the red blood cell count.