A good family hotel on I-15 about half way between Legoland and Sea World, but it's best to use I-15 and not I-5 or 805. Check your map or call the hotel first for directions. Holiday Inn San Diego North-Miramar www.ichotelsgroup.com 9335 Kearny Mesa Rd San Diego, CA 92126 (858) 695-2668. Easytosee · 7 years ago. 
Opened on Oct. 15, Legoland Florida appeared on the site of the old Cypress Gardens park in Winter Haven. It's a nearly hour-long drive from the Orlando theme parks, but Legoland's strong line-up of kid-friendly attractions ought to encourage many families to make the trip to check it out.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. LEGOLAND is located in Winter Haven, FL and SeaWorld is located in San Diego, CA. The distance between the two is 2,456 miles. It will take about 34 hours to drive. 
This is a perfect option for families with young children and with the LEGOLAND Florida & SeaWorld Parks Combo Ticket package you have complete freedom to come and go as you please at any of the following Orlando theme parks for up to 14 consecutive days: 1 The LEGOLAND Florida ticket gives you admission to LEGOLAND Park only. 2  It does not include LEGOLAND Florida Water Park. 3  The Busch Gardens Shuttle Express departs from SeaWorld and picks up from various locations along the way. 4  Service may be subject to change.
1 The LEGOLAND Florida & SeaWorld Parks Combo Ticket is a combined package of a LEGOLAND Florida e-ticket and the 3-Park SeaWorld, Aquatica & Busch Gardens Ticket. 2  You will be sent two separate tickets and each ticket expires 14 days from first use. 1 The LEGOLAND Florida ticket gives you admission to LEGOLAND Park only. 2  It does not include LEGOLAND Florida Water Park. 3  The Busch Gardens Shuttle Express departs from SeaWorld and picks up from various locations along the way. 4  Service may be subject to change.
Soon, I’ll be headed down to the Sunshine State for a family theme park trip. My daughters are 2 and (soon to be) 5 so we’re targeting SeaWorld Orlando and Legoland Florida. We’re saving the Disney parks for a later trip when our youngest is a bit older. I doubt she’d remember a trip from when she was only 2. 
San Diego is an important site for fishery and has a good situation (the situation is the location of the city in respect to other areas), because it is next to the ocean, whi … ch makes it a convenient port for other ships to dock and leave for other countries, creating more trade. San Diego is also an important tourist site. Important tourists site in San Diego include Balboa Park, Sea World and Old Town. Tourism boosts economy in the U.S. and San Diego is one of those cities.
You can do LEGOLAND California in a day, but you won't be able to hit every single ride, attraction and show, especially if you also plan to take in Sea Life Aquarium and/or the Water Park. If your kids are between the ages of 4 and 10, two days is ideal. 