An introducer sheath is a medical device used for removing arterial plaque in angioplasty procedures. IV catheters have introducer sheaths at the end to hold open access to the vein. Patients may have an introducer sheath left in place while in intensive care to maintain venous access, although this can come with some risks. There is a chance of infection, for example, or injury to the walls of the blood vessel caused by the tip of the sheath if the device becomes dislodged.
Top 10 facts about the world. An introducer sheath is a medical device used for venous access in procedures like angioplasties. It holds a vessel open and allows practitioners to insert other tools safely into the area of interest. Patients may have an introducer sheath left in place while in intensive care to maintain venous access, although this can come with some risks. There is a chance of infection, for example, or injury to the walls of the blood vessel caused by the tip of the sheath if the device becomes dislodged.
An introducer sheath is a sheath through which fluids or tools can be introduced (inserted). It is a surgical tool consisting of a tube inserted into the body to provide an access point and allow the insertion of other instruments into an artery or vein and a seal to maintain hemostatis. 
To use the device, a medical professional inserts an introducer needle to access the vein, threads a guide wire into the vessel, and then feeds in the introducer sheath. It can be sutured in place to make sure it doesn’t move, and includes a length of flexible tubing designed to avoid straining the vessel. Patients may have an introducer sheath left in place while in intensive care to maintain venous access, although this can come with some risks. There is a chance of infection, for example, or injury to the walls of the blood vessel caused by the tip of the sheath if the device becomes dislodged.
The industry standard, SafeSheath combines an introducer with a hemostatic valve to prevent back-bleeding and air embolization. Designed primarily for left-sided venous access, the 13cm SafeSheath is pre-scored, ensuring a clean, even peel each time, greatly simplifying sheath removal after lead or catheter placement. When a longer introducer is required there's the 25cm SafeSheath Long, providing sheath access beyond the right subclavian-SVC junction, from both the left cephalic and subclavian veins.
The convenience of a tear-away introducer combined with a hemostatic valve preventing back bleeding and greatly reducing the possibility of air embolism. The SafeSheath ® is introduced into the subclavian vein in the standard manner. A hemostatic valve seals the introducer during lead introduction and positioning. When a longer introducer is required there's the 25cm SafeSheath Long, providing sheath access beyond the right subclavian-SVC junction, from both the left cephalic and subclavian veins.
Successful procedures begin with quality insertion components. Micro-introducer kits from AngioDynamics include the finest tools available for .018 guidewire placement during vascular procedures. THE NEEDLEChoose from A or B bevel, or super sharp needleoptions.An echogenic tip is availablefor higher visibility under ultrasound guidance. 
introducer. a heavy metal fist-sized instrument to which a wire saw can be attached to be introduced into the uterus of a cow or mare and dropped over the part to be sawed. The weight and shape of the introducer ensure that it is easily found and pulled out with the wire attached, so that the fetotome can then be threaded. Not, as Eustace hinted, that there was any real necessity for my services as introducer, inasmuch as his own name had become established in some good degree of favor with the literary world. Tanglewood Tales by Hawthorne, Nathaniel View in context.
An instrument or stylet used to insert a catheter, an endotracheal tube, or similar flexible device into the body. Introducer sheath Interventional cardiology A short plastic tube placed within a vein or artery, through which various catheters are passed for local or central diagnostic or therapeutic interventions. See Catheterization. Not, as Eustace hinted, that there was any real necessity for my services as introducer, inasmuch as his own name had become established in some good degree of favor with the literary world. Tanglewood Tales by Hawthorne, Nathaniel View in context.