The average adult pooch needs approximately 35 calories per pound of weight each day, according to Dogster. So, if your young pooch is 10 pounds, he'll need around 70 calories of food per pound daily, or 700 calories. Daily Recommended Calories. Until your pup reaches his first birthday or so, he'll need around twice the amount of calories per pound of weight each day than an adult dog, recommends the National Research Council.
You may notice on the nutritional labels of the foods you buy that the percent daily values are based on a 2,000 calorie diet -- 2,000 calories is a rough average of what people eat in a day. But your body might need more or less than 2,000. Height, weight, gender, age and activity level all affect your caloric needs. 
A young adult Pomeranian weighing about 10 pounds, for example, and getting lots of exercise would need about 436 calories per day. However, if your Pomeranian tends to lie around the house all day with little opportunity to exercise, he would need fewer calories. 
You may simply feed your dog fewer calories and exercise a bit more each day; over time there will be a weight loss. This is a preferred method, because toy breed dogs are very sensitive and should not have the stress of a sudden surge of increased exercise. Adding 10 minutes to your dog's daily walk is suggested. A much simpler method is to calculate 55 calories per pound for puppies and 45 calories per pound for adults; you'll notice that growing Pom puppies require more calories per pound than mature dogs since they are in a stage of rapid growth that requires more calories to burn as energy.
Metric System: weight in kilograms x 30 + 70 = calories needed per day. For example: 2.26 kg x 30 = 67.8 + 70 = 137.8 calories needed per day. Decimal System: weight in pounds divided by 2.2 x 30 + 70 = calories needed. For example: 5 pounds divided by 2.2 = 2.27 x 30 = 68.1 + 70 = 138 calories needed per day. A much simpler method is to calculate 55 calories per pound for puppies and 45 calories per pound for adults; you'll notice that growing Pom puppies require more calories per pound than mature dogs since they are in a stage of rapid growth that requires more calories to burn as energy.
One-and-a-quarter cups of food per day at 5 pounds or 2 cups of food per day at 6 pounds is appropriate. As adults, a quarter-cup to one-half cup of adult food per pound of weight is ample, but give less if your Pomeranian walks away from his food for more than five minutes. 
To Lose Weight. To lose 1 pound a week, you need to cut 500 calories per day. You can do this by eating less, exercising more, or both. Try these strategies: 1  Cut 250 calories from your daily diet. 2  That’s about one 20-ounce regular soda. 3  Burn an extra 250 calories through physical activity
To ensure that your Maltese loses weight in a healthy yet steady way you must count the calories that you are feeding your Maltese. If your dog is 8 or more pounds (3.62 kg) 247 calories per day is appropriate. This includes snacks! It is recommended to feed your dog in this way: If your Maltese is not losing weight, be sure that no one in the family is giving your dog food outside of the guidelines. If your dog is truly eating only the 247 calories per day but is still not losing weight every 2 weeks, bring the calorie count to 200.
The best way to lose weight is through proper diet and exercise. Try not to lower your calorie intake by more than 1,000 calories per day, and try to lower your calorie intake gradually. Also, try to maintain your level of fiber intake and balance your other nutritional needs. The results of the Calorie Calculator are based on an estimated averag