Igneous landforms can usually be placed in one of two camps: Intrusive and Extrusive. Intrusive forms result from magma solidifying beneath the earth's crust, then later exposed by earthquake, erosion, glacial activity, etc. Igneous forms seen in canyons are usually intrusives; the magma crystallized beneath the earth's crust but has since been exposed by whatever formed the canyon. Some igneous forms in canyons are extrusive, such as the lava flow in the western portion of Grand Canyon NP; the lava flowed after the canyon had been formed.
Igneous rock is formed through the cooling and solidification of magma or lava. Igneous rock may form with or without crystallization, either below the surface as intrusive (plutonic) rocks or on the surface as extrusive (volcanic) rocks. This magma can be derived from partial melts of pre-existing rocks in either a planet's mantle or crust
Magma can cool to form an igneous rock either on the surface of the Earth-in which case it produces a volcanic or extrusive igneous rock, or beneath the surface of the Earth, - in which case it produces a plutonic or intrusive igneous rock. 
On the earth's surface, there are three types of rocks, metamorphic, sedimentary, and igneous. In northern Canada, much of the hard rock found is igneous rock. Igneous rock is rock formed by the hardening and crystallization of molten material that originates deep within the earth. Igneous rock is divided into 2 groups, extrusive and intrusive. Extrusive rocks form when magma flows onto the surface of the earth or floor of the ocean through deep cracks or fissures and at volcanic vents, and then cools and hardens.
Igneous Landforms -- Geology 101. This page describes igneous landforms. These are any forms volcanic in origin, or from other magma or lava flow phenomenon. If you wish to return to the main geology page, please click here. Igneous forms seen in canyons are usually intrusives; the magma crystallized beneath the earth's crust but has since been exposed by whatever formed the canyon. Some igneous forms in canyons are extrusive, such as the lava flow in the western portion of Grand Canyon NP; the lava flowed after the canyon had been formed.
Millions of years ago, the solidification of molten rocks formed the different types of igneous rock. There are two types of igneous rocks: intrusive, which are found underneath the earth’s surface and extrusive, which are found on or above the earth’s surface.
Plutonism refers to igneous processes that occur below Earth’s surface including the cooling of magma to form intrusive igneous rocks and rock masses. Some masses of intrusive igneous rock are eventually exposed at Earth’s surface where they comprise landforms of distinctive shapes and properties. 
Rocks that crystallize below the surface of the earth are known as intrusive or plutonic rock. Some examples of intrusive igneous features are dikes, sills, batholiths, and laccoliths. Click here to take a tour of some of the intrusive igneous formations found in Big Bend. Rocks that crystallize above the surface of the earth are known as extrusive or volcanic rock. When volcanoes erupt and sheets of lava pour out across the surrounding area, the feature that is created is called a lava flow.
Extrusive (volcanic) Landforms. Extrusive landforms are created by igneous activity at the surface of the earth. There is wide range of volcanic landforms that includes large depressions (calderas and Maars), conical mountains (volcanoes), and broad lava plains and plateaus. 