Cheddar is the most popular type of cheese in the UK, accounting for 51% of the country's £1.9 billion annual cheese market. It is also the second-most-popular cheese in the US (behind mozzarella), with an average annual consumption of 10 lb (4.5 kg) per capita. Annatto is added to give Cheddar a sweet, nutty flavour. The largest producer of Cheddar cheese in the United States, Kraft, uses a combination of annatto and oleoresin paprika, an extract of the lipophilic (oily) portion of paprika.
Cheddar is an English cheese named after a village in the West Country. Its name also denotes a particular part of the production process (cheddaring), and so popular a styl … e has it been for centuries that it has been imitated throughout the world, but the original version comes from Somerset, England. Cheddar cheese is a semi-hard, yellow-orange cheese that varies in sharpness.
To make cheddar, milk is mixed with cultures and rennet to form curds, which are gently heated, cubed, and drained. The draining process causes the curds to mat up, and the mat is cut into loose blocks of cheese that are periodically turned, allowing the curds to drain even more. This is the step called cheddaring. Cheddar cheese undergoes a process called “cheddaring” while it is processed to yield a distinct level of moisture and unique texture. The cheddaring process is quite distinctive, and it dramatically alters the end product.
The gorge is the site of the Cheddar show caves, where Britain's oldest complete human skeleton, Cheddar Man, estimated to be over 9,000 years old, was found in 1903. Older remains from the Upper Late Palaeolithic era (12,000–13,000 years ago) have been found. Cheddar is a gorge lying on the southern edge of the Mendip Hills. The maximum depth of the gorge is 137 m (449 ft), with a near-vertical cliff-face to the south, and steep grassy slopes to the north. The B3135 road runs along the bottom of the gorge.
Sharp is the term that indicates how cheddar changes in flavor and texture as it ages. Mild cheddars are aged 2 to 3 months, sharp 6 to 9 months, and extra-sharp 1 1/2 to 2 years old. As cheddar ages, it goes from mild to tangier with more complex and deeper flavors. The cheddar-making process starts out like most other cheeses: milk is cultured, meaning starter bacteria is added to acidify the milk. When enough acid is developed, rennet is added and milk forms curds.
Probably the most consumed cheese in the world, Cheddar originated from Somerset around the late 12th Century and took its name from the Gorge or caves in the town of Cheddar that were used to store the cheese. The constant temperature and humidity of the caves provided a perfect environment for maturing the cheese. 
Cheddar Gorge is a limestone gorge in the Mendip Hills, near the village of Cheddar, Somerset, England. Cheddar is a gorge lying on the southern edge of the Mendip Hills. The maximum depth of the gorge is 137 m (449 ft), with a near-vertical cliff-face to the south, and steep grassy slopes to the north. The B3135 road runs along the bottom of the gorge.
Cooking with cheddar is a different story though. The more aged the cheese is, the less moisture it contains and the more heat is required to melt it. Mild or sharp cheddars melt the best, while aged cheddars start to behave more like Parmesan cheese. The cheddar-making process starts out like most other cheeses: milk is cultured, meaning starter bacteria is added to acidify the milk. When enough acid is developed, rennet is added and milk forms curds.
In simple terms, Cheddar cheese is a concentrated form of milk. It's made by treating the milk so that it coagulates into curd (a thick, custard-like solid) and releases a thin, watery liquid called whey.. The curd is then pressed and aged to create rich, smooth, full-flavored Cheddar cheese. 1  For more information: 
Cheddar cheese is a relatively hard, off-white (or orange if spices such as annatto are added), sometimes sharp (i.e., acidic)-tasting, natural cheese. Originating in the English village of Cheddar in Somerset, cheeses of this style are produced beyond this region and in several countries around the world. Annatto is added to give Cheddar a sweet, nutty flavour. The largest producer of Cheddar cheese in the United States, Kraft, uses a combination of annatto and oleoresin paprika, an extract of the lipophilic (oily) portion of paprika.