1 Symptoms of early pregnancy include missed periods, nausea and vomiting, breast changes, fatigue and frequent urination. 2  Many of these symptoms can also be caused by other factors such as stress or illness. 3  If you suspect you may be pregnant, see your doctor.
Pregnancy symptoms differ from woman to woman and pregnancy to pregnancy; however, one of the most significant pregnancy symptoms is a delayed or missed period. Understanding the signs of pregnancy is important because each symptom may have causes other than pregnancy.
What follows is a description of some of the most common early symptoms of pregnancy. You should know that these symptoms may be caused by other things besides being pregnant. So the fact that you notice some of these symptoms does not necessarily mean you are pregnant. The only way to tell for sure is with a pregnancy test.
Many of the signs of pregnancy, such as a missed period (amenorrhoea), nausea (morning sickness) or tiredness can also be caused by stress or illness, so if you think you are pregnant take a home pregnancy test (urine test) or see your doctor, who will administer a urine test, blood test or ultrasound scan.
Classic symptoms of pregnancy. In addition to a missed period, the earliest signs and symptoms of pregnancy might include: 1  Tender, swollen breasts. 2  Early in pregnancy hormonal changes might make your breasts tender, sensitive or sore. 3  Or your breasts might feel fuller and heavier. 4  Nausea with or without vomiting.
Women go through many changes during each stage of pregnancy. Many of the pregnancy symptoms they have and the changes they deal with are common to all healthy pregnancies. The stages of embryonic and fetal development also follow a common pattern.
Symptoms of early pregnancy include missed periods, breast changes, tiredness, frequent urination, and nausea and vomiting (morning sickness). These symptoms can also be caused by other factors, so a suspected pregnancy needs to be confirmed with a urine test or blood test.