Job requirements for a police dog trainer vary from state to state, but most require you to have 3-6 years of experience as a police dog handler and 200-1,000 hours of formal training for the career. You may receive this training from a K-9 instructor school or state-approved association.
The International Police K9 Conference is renowned world wide for its quality of instructors and programs alike. With the finest and most professional instructors available anywhere in the world, the International Police K9 Conferences provide a challenging opportunity for police dog teams at any level of expertise.
The dog must stop immediately and fulfill any command it is given by the handler. There are specifications of training involved in using trained K9 police dogs in the airport, marine ports, railroads, in a metro station.
Well, your poodle may be a great dog, but it probably wouldn't be a great fit for a police dog. Police dogs need to have very special and specific training. There are many different breeds of dogs that are trained in police work. What breed often depends on the type of work they will do.
Back to Animals. Police dogs are dogs that help the police to solve crimes. They have become a major part of law enforcement in the past several years. Police dogs have saved many lives with their unique skills and bravery.
Police Dogs. A police dog is trained specifically to assist police and other law-enforcement personnel in their work. Police dogs are often referred to as K-9s. The most commonly used breeds are the German Shepherd, and the Belgian Malinois.
A police dog must be able to work in both small and large towns, and will have constant contact with civilians. The dog must behave well and listen to the handler. For this, a K-9 handler goes through obedience training, and has to pass a test that includes commanding the dog off-leash.
Police dog trainers may work for training schools, private companies or police departments where they teach dogs basic and advanced skills needed to work with police officers. They may simply train the dogs for police departments or work with dog and handler teams to prepare them for this specialized career.