Split and merge into it. Answer by Fellisha matlock. Confidence votes 24. A Civilization is a group of people united under one flag with a leader or a form of political system, one or more beliefs/ religion and a form of communication in any form ranging from writing to speaking. The people have to also have a ranking systems: Such as High-Class, Middle-Class and Lower-Class and so on. 
ISBN 978 0192805805. Civilisation is a funny old word, the definition of which is never anything other than problematic. To some, this might mean reliable plumbing, dentistry and antibiotics while to others, as David Wengrow notes early on in this provocative study, it means settlement and literacy. 
In What Makes Civilization? , archaeologist David Wengrow provides a vivid new account of the ‘birth of civilization’ in ancient Egypt and Mesopotamia (today’s Iraq). 
A civilization (US) or civilisation (UK) is any complex society characterized by urban development, symbolic communication forms (typically, writing systems), and a perceived separation from and domination over the natural environment. Towards the end of the Neolithic period, various Chalcolithic civilizations began to rise in various cradles from around 3300 BCE. Chalcolithic Civilizations, as defined above, also developed in Pre-Columbian Americas and, despite an early start in Egypt, Axum and Kush, much later in Iron Age sub-Saharan Africa.
Civilization can also refer to the culture of a complex society, not just the society itself. Every society, civilization or not, has a specific set of ideas and customs, and a certain set of manufactures and arts that make it unique. Towards the end of the Neolithic period, various Chalcolithic civilizations began to rise in various cradles from around 3300 BCE. Chalcolithic Civilizations, as defined above, also developed in Pre-Columbian Americas and, despite an early start in Egypt, Axum and Kush, much later in Iron Age sub-Saharan Africa.
Thus, we can infer that a great civilization has some defining features that ensure the continuity of the greatness of the civilization. When a great civilization prospers, it brings about economic stability and self-sustenance. Firstly, a feature of a great civilisation is good geographical location. ...read more. 
The people who make up a civilization are members of a society (so-sy-it-ee). When people learn and work together as a society, a civilization grows. As a civilization develops over time, it becomes more advanced, and provides a better life for its people. There are many things we need, in order to have a civilization. First, a civilization must have communities, towns or cities. Working together is also important in a civilization. People in our society have special jobs in which they produce certain goods or provide services. Different jobs are needed to make a society work, and to meet the needs of a civilization. Some people make clothes or build houses, while others grow or prepare food. 
Religion is a very important characteristic of a civilization. It's important because it has told everyone what to do in our everyday life, such as doing chores and preparing offerings for gods. We have expressed our religious beliefs by building statues and ziggurats. The image to the left is a ziggurat. 
Civilizations may involve a large number of people, as with China (a civilization pretending to be a state, as Lucian Pye put it), or a very small number of people, such as the Anglophone Caribbean. The civilization to which he belongs is the broadest level of identification with which he intensely identifies. People can and do redefine their identities and, as a result, the composition and boundaries of civilizations change.
A civilization may include several nation states, as is the case with Western, Latin American and Arab civilizations, or only one, as is the case with Japanese civilization. Civilizations obviously blend and overlap, and may include subcivilizations. The civilization to which he belongs is the broadest level of identification with which he intensely identifies. People can and do redefine their identities and, as a result, the composition and boundaries of civilizations change.