Some evolutionary scientists claim that that kangaroos evolved from possums. However, there are no fossils of animals which are part possum and part kangaroo. The oldest kangaroo fossil is clearly a kangaroo, totally and completely (it greatly resembles the potoroos which dwell in Victoria’s forests). If modern kangaroos really did come from it, all this shows is the same as we see happening today, namely that kangaroos come from kangaroos, “ after their kind .”. Kangaroos are wonderful examples of God’s craftsmanship, designed by a Creator who knew perfectly what He was doing.
Size. The largest kangaroo, as well as the largest marsupial, is the red kangaroo, according to National Geographic. The length from the red kangaroo's head to its rump is 3.25 to 5.25 feet (1 to 1.6 meters) long. Its tail adds another 35.5 to 43.5 inches (90 to 110 centimeters) to its length and its entire body weighs around 200 lbs. (90 kilograms). The smallest kangaroo is the musky rat-kangaroo. Habits. Kangaroos are the only large animals that hop as a primary means of locomotion. Their springy hind legs and feet are much stronger and larger than their arms (or forelimbs). According to the San Diego Zoo, kangaroos can cover 15 feet (7 m) in a single hop and can hop as fast as 30 mph (48 kph).
The Macropod family is alleged to have evolved from either the Phalangeridae (possums) or Burramyidae (pygmy-possums) during the so-called Oligocene epoch some 30 million years ago. 5. However, there are no fossils of animals which appear to be intermediate between possums and kangaroos. At the zoo or in their natural habitat of Australia (and New Guinea), they remain the most recognized and obvious of Australia’s fauna. Their faces, the way they carry their young in a pouch, their phenomenal leaping power, and their deadly ‘karate kicking’ have long intrigued people.
Wabularoo naughtoni, supposed ancestor of all the macropods, was clearly a kangaroo (it greatly resembles the potoroos which dwell in Victoria’s forests). 6 If modern kangaroos really did come from it, all this shows is the same as we see happening today, namely that kangaroos come from kangaroos, ‘ after their kind ’. At the zoo or in their natural habitat of Australia (and New Guinea), they remain the most recognized and obvious of Australia’s fauna. Their faces, the way they carry their young in a pouch, their phenomenal leaping power, and their deadly ‘karate kicking’ have long intrigued people.
Their entry on kangaroos, for instance, says that, like all modern animals. . . kangaroos are the descendants of the two founding members of the modern kangaroo baramin that were taken aboard Noah's Ark prior to the Great Flood.. You may not recognize the word baramin.. 
Kangaroos are mammals, and marsupials, which means they are not born from eggs. The young emerge from the birth canal and crawl up to the pouch where they continue their development. The only mammals hatched from eggs are monotremes, which include just platypuses and echidnas. 
1. The term ‘wallaby’ is applied to those species where the adult male has a body mass less than about 20 kg (44 lbs) and feet less than 25 centimeters (10 inches) long. However, scientists can recognize no major anatomical difference between these and kangaroos. At the zoo or in their natural habitat of Australia (and New Guinea), they remain the most recognized and obvious of Australia’s fauna. Their faces, the way they carry their young in a pouch, their phenomenal leaping power, and their deadly ‘karate kicking’ have long intrigued people.
The kangaroo /ˌkaeŋɡəˈruː/ ˌkæŋɡəˈruː is a marsupial from the Family (macropodidae, macropods meaning large). Foot in common use the term is used to describe the largest species from this, family especially those of the Genus: macropus the red, kangaroo antilopine, kangaroo eastern grey, kangaroo and western grey. kangaroo In common use the term is used to describe the largest species from this family, especially those of the genus Macropus: the red kangaroo, antilopine kangaroo, eastern grey kangaroo, and western grey kangaroo. Kangaroos are endemic to Australia.
Kangaroos are native to Australia alone-no other continent or island. Tree kangaroos can be found in New Guinea as well as in the far northern rainforests of Australia, but that is the only variety found anywhere else apart from Australia. Kangaroos' habitats include grasslands, mulga scrub, bushland (not too dense) and open plains-wherever there is food, and shade trees. Larger kangaroos like the Red kangaroo and the two Grey  kangaroo species live in mobs, while the sma … ller  kangaroos, such as the musky-rat kangaroo, tend to be solitary.  tree kangaroos are also solitary.    Other species of kangaroos tend to live in small colonies.