Roadmapping is a powerful technique – pioneered by Motorola in the 1970s – for planning an organisation’s technological capabilities to ensure they meet its commercial or strategic goals. The graphical nature of roadmaps supports strategic alignment and dialogue between functions in the firm and between organisations. Consultancy – IfM ECS’s team of industrial fellows design and facilitate roadmapping projects for your organisation. Open courses – Dr Rob Phaal and his colleagues run a series of workshops on roadmapping techniques. Executive education-bespoke in-company training courses, tailored to your organisation’s needs.
A roadmap is a communication tool that helps communicate where you are, where you are heading and how you expect to get there. Roadmaps should detail a high-level product vision and highlight basic prioritization for everyone in your organisation, and customers too. 
Technology Roadmapping 6 Integration planning: Through this Roadmap, it is possible to have a vision about integration and evolution of the technology, and how they combine with products and systems in order to create new technologies. Technology Roadmapping 12 Step 4. Generation of a provisional Innovation Roadmap In this step, the synchronization of the Technology Roadmap and the Roadmap for Products is accomplished. Generally, this task must be carried out by the marketing department or any equivalent area.
roadmapping. A visual planning technique which aims at building a big-picture view of a complex subject, starting with the long-term need, and working backwards to map all the possible ways to respond to that need. 
Roadmapping can help you arrive at a shared vision of your organisation’s future and an understanding of the key steps needed to realise that vision, presented in a way that is readily accessible to all your staff and stakeholders. Consultancy – IfM ECS’s team of industrial fellows design and facilitate roadmapping projects for your organisation. Open courses – Dr Rob Phaal and his colleagues run a series of workshops on roadmapping techniques. Executive education-bespoke in-company training courses, tailored to your organisation’s needs.
But roadmapping is the only process that provides a bridge between organizations, functions, processes and time. Roadmapping is the only solution that allows thousands of employees to share visibility of long-range planning, as well as to participate in the creation of roadmaps. Roadmapping is also an incredibly responsive business process, allowing organizations to react to changing conditions in real time. A: Roadmapping is the practice of creating time-based representations of information designed to support a specific objective or decision process.
Cost and performance are both simultaneously significant to technology roadmapping for product commericialization. Costs can be a driver or performance for product commercialization. Product costs are in most simple terms the raw material commodity costs added to processing costs. The Technology Roadmapping Process conducts 3 phases (see figure 1.): preliminary activities, the development of the roadmap and the follow-up activities phase. Because the process is too big for one model the phases are modeled separately.
A technology roadmap is a plan that matches short-term and long-term goals with specific technology solutions to help meet those goals. It is a plan that applies to a new product or process, or to an emerging technology. The Technology Roadmapping Process conducts 3 phases (see figure 1.): preliminary activities, the development of the roadmap and the follow-up activities phase. Because the process is too big for one model the phases are modeled separately.