If your model year is 87 or newer, you probably don't need to worry about manufacture date. Your model year should also be on your registration and title-- you'll need both to trade in your van. Model year can probably be determined from the VIN (google search for a VIN decoder and enter your VIN to find out).
On most vehicles, the date of manufacture is found on a sticker attached to the car frame and is visible when the driver's side door is open. Open the door, and look for stickers on the car frame near the door latch post (U-shaped bolt).
Instructions. On most vehicles, the date of manufacture is found on a sticker attached to the car frame and is visible when the driver's side door is open. Open the door, and look for stickers on the car frame near the door latch post (U-shaped bolt). There probably will be more than one. (Click on photo to enlarge) The sticker with a bar code and the vehicle's VIN number is the Safety Standard Certification Label. It contains the month and year of manufacture. In this case, it was made in 7/'97, or July, 1997. Look at the end of the top line for this information.
The Model Number and Manufacture Date are two necessary pieces of information you will need when speaking to our Customer Service Department. You can find this information on a white sticker on the underside of your product.
Although an original engine will have the same manufacture date as the car, many cars have had engine swaps, so it is worth checking both. The manufacture date of the car is defined by the last two letters in the VIN number. e.g. An early chassis number such as BBATRD13749 will have a manufacture code of RD which translates to March 1975 using the table below.
It should be noted that the actual date of manufacture might not be the same as the model year. A vehicle might be made in in the last few weeks/months of one year, but be made to the specification for the following year. (IE the car could be made in December 2006 to the spec for 2007, so it's a 2007 car made in 2006.). Typically the model year is indicated by one or more letter/number in the vin.