You have to be able to spit to use fluoride! Once you have the toothpaste on your toothbrush...open your mouth wide! Start with the teeth in the back of your mouth and brush in little circles. Work your way to the teeth in the front of your mouth and don't forget to brush the gums! Move the brush back and forth gently in short strokes. Brush the top, front, and back sides of each tooth. Make sure you get the inside of all the teeth. Guide the floss between your teeth using a gentle rubbing motion. Never snap the floss into your gums. When the floss reaches the gum line, curve it into a C shape against one tooth. Hold the floss tightly against the tooth. Gently rub the side of the tooth, moving the floss away from the gum with an upward motion.
When you brush your teeth: 1  Brush your teeth 2 times a day, in the morning and at night. 2  Use a toothbrush with soft, rounded-end bristles and a head that is small enough to reach all parts of your teeth and mouth. 1 Do not scrub. 2  Vigorous brushing can make the gums pull away from the teeth and can scratch your tooth enamel. 3  Brush all surfaces of the teeth, tongue-side and cheek-side. 4  Pay special attention to the front teeth and all surfaces of the back teeth.
Most adults do not come close to brushing that long. To get a feel for the time involved, try using a stopwatch. To properly brush your teeth, use short, gentle strokes, paying extra attention to the gumline, hard-to-reach back teeth, and areas around fillings, crowns or other restoration. Concentrate on thoroughly cleaning each section as follows: 1  Clean the outer surfaces of your upper teeth, then your lower teeth.
The proper brushing technique is to: 1  Place your toothbrush at a 45-degree angle to the gums. 2  Gently move the brush back and forth in short (tooth-wide) strokes. 3  Brush the outer surfaces, the inner surfaces, and the chewing surfaces of the teeth. You should also make sure to: 1  Clean between teeth daily with floss. 2  Tooth decay-causing bacteria still linger between teeth where toothbrush bristles can’t reach. 3  This helps remove plaque and food particles from between the teeth and under the gum line. 4  Eat a balanced diet and limit between-meal snacks.
1 Place your toothbrush at a 45-degree angle to the gums. 2  Gently move the brush back and forth in short (tooth-wide) strokes. 3  Brush the outer surfaces, the inner surfaces, and the chewing surfaces of the teeth. You should also make sure to: 1  Clean between teeth daily with floss. 2  Tooth decay-causing bacteria still linger between teeth where toothbrush bristles can’t reach. 3  This helps remove plaque and food particles from between the teeth and under the gum line. 4  Eat a balanced diet and limit between-meal snacks.
Most adults do not come close to brushing that long. To get a feel for the time involved, try using a stopwatch. To properly brush your teeth, use short, gentle strokes, paying extra attention to the gumline, hard-to-reach back teeth and areas around fillings, crowns or other restoration. Concentrate on thoroughly cleaning each section as follows: 1  Clean the outer surfaces of your upper teeth, then your lower teeth. Most adults do not come close to brushing that long. These four steps are the best and easiest ways to help you remember how to care for your mouth, teeth and gums: Brush at least twice a day with fluoride toothpaste for at least two minutes, especially first thing in the morning and before bedtime.
Published on Sep 17, 2012. This video is all about brushing your teeth -- directed at children. Some topics include: plaque, cavities, and how to brush your teeth. The video also tells you how much fluoride toothpaste to put on your toothbrush, and the best methods to use when brushing your teeth. Guide the floss between your teeth using a gentle rubbing motion. Never snap the floss into your gums. When the floss reaches the gum line, curve it into a C shape against one tooth. Hold the floss tightly against the tooth. Gently rub the side of the tooth, moving the floss away from the gum with an upward motion.
This video is all about brushing your teeth. Some topics include: plaque, cavities, and how to brush. The video also tells you how much fluoride toothpaste to put on your toothbrush, and the best methods to use when brushing your teeth. There are also instructions on how to floss your teeth. Diet and general health tips are also included, such as eating more fruits and vegetables and drinking plenty of water.
1 The best way to take care of your mouth is to brush with a fluoride toothpaste and floss your teeth twice a day. 2  Using mouthwash can also help fight plaque and freshen your breath. 3  Hold your manual toothbrush at a 45-degree angle to your gumline. 4  When flossing, form a C shape around each tooth. 1 Brush for at least 2 minutes, twice a day, with a fluoride toothpaste. 2  Pay special attention to your back teeth, which may have more plaque on them. 3  Use a toothbrush with soft bristles. 4  Brush with gentle strokes so you don't wear away your gums or teeth. 5  Change your toothbrush every 3 months.