1 Current market prices vary between $50 and $200 per hour, depending on the designer; and. 2  Square foot basis-this is usually the manner by which commercial work is done and it pays the designer a fixed amount per square foot of space.
One-Time Consultations & Other Options. One-time consultations can be accommodated fairly easily, and I welcome them! I charge $225 for a consultation in your home and it is payable at the visit. I find that 1 ½ hours for a one time consult works best.
1 Consultation with designer on a bedroom decorating project; 2  Agreement on terms of the arrangement, which is going to usually be in the area of 20% markup on goods purchased from a wholesale distributor; and. 3  Budget is set at $6,000 and will include flat design fee, materials, vendors, and any contractors;
On average nationally, hiring an interior decorator or designer costs $7,125, with most homeowners spending between $5,544 and $8,706. If you decide to hire a professional for decorating your house, make sure you know the right kind of one that you need.
1 Some decorators work for free; they're earning commissions from merchants and may steer you to the highest priced products. 2  Others charge a fixed fee, of $500-$10,000 or more depending on location and reputation. 3  Hourly rates can be $35-$500, again based
1 Consultation with designer on a bedroom decorating project; 2  Agreement on terms of the arrangement, which is going to usually include a discussion on the costs per service such as retainer amount, design fee, color selection, purchasing, etc; and. 3  Budget is set at $6,000 and will include all services.
1 Budget is set at $6,000 and will include all services. 2  Hourly rates-this is for a smaller project and pays the designer based on the actual amount of time that they contribute to a specific project. 3  Current market prices vary between $50 and $200 per hour, depending on the designer; and.
The cost of hiring an interior designer varies greatly. Most charge per hour, with the current market rate between $50 and $200 per hour. You would pay this in addition to the cost of furniture, accessories, artwork, etc. Some interior designers charge their clients by marking up the decor they choose.