If you binge on salty foods, you'll likely feel bloated and puffy a few hours later. That's because eating too much salt causes your body to retain water. The extra water in your body can amount to a few extra pounds of weight and can lead to high blood pressure.
Eating salt raises the amount of sodium in your bloodstream and wrecks the delicate balance, reducing the ability of your kidneys to remove the water. The result is a higher blood pressure due to the extra fluid and extra strain on the delicate blood vessels leading to the kidneys. If you have high blood pressure and are being treated with a diuretic medication, this makes the kidneys remove more fluid from the bloodstream. Because the sodium in salt counteracts this effect, reducing your salt intake will make your blood pressure medicine more effective. How to eat less salt.
Why salt is bad. The amount of salt you eat has a direct effect on your blood pressure. Salt makes your body hold on to water. If you eat too much salt, the extra water stored in your body raises your blood pressure. So, the more salt you eat, the higher your blood pressure. The higher your blood pressure, the greater the strain on your heart, arteries, kidneys and brain. This can lead to heart attacks, strokes, dementia and kidney diseas
Main Content: Salt's effects on your body. Salt works on your kidneys to make your body hold on to more water. This extra stored water raises your blood pressure and puts strain on your kidneys, arteries, heart and brain. If you have high blood pressure and are being treated with a diuretic medication, this makes the kidneys remove more fluid from the bloodstream. Because the sodium in salt counteracts this effect, reducing your salt intake will make your blood pressure medicine more effective. How to eat less salt.
Sodium-better known as salt-maintains the correct balance of certain fluids which bathe the cells in our bodies-essential for nerve and muscle function. However, research shows that too much salt can lead to increased blood pressure, osteoporosis-a bone-thinning disease, asthma, stomach cancer and weight gain. Blood pressure. Hypertension-the medical term for high blood pressure-is thought to affect up to one in five adults in the UK. This is because when our bodies sweat, salt is excreted through the pores of our skin. If too much salt is eliminated from our bodies, it alters the balance of sodium contained in our cells. Too little sodium-or salt-in our cells can affect nerve or
The extra blood pressure caused by eating too much salt puts extra strain on the insides of your arteries. To cope with the extra strain, the tiny muscles in the artery walls become stronger and thicker. Yet this only makes the space inside the arteries smaller and raises your blood pressure even higher. If you have high blood pressure and are being treated with a diuretic medication, this makes the kidneys remove more fluid from the bloodstream. Because the sodium in salt counteracts this effect, reducing your salt intake will make your blood pressure medicine more effective. How to eat less salt.
Best Answer: In a normal body, the kidneys will keep the proper amount of salt in your body. If you drink lots of water, the kidneys will just flush out the extra water (not salt). Report Abuse. Salt does not get flushed out of the body by water. In fact, water FOLLOWS salt, which is managed by the kidneys. You need a proper balance of salt to live. Our electrolyes (sodium, potassium, chloride) are tightly controlled by homeostatic mechanisms.
The Body Fat Guide can help you monitor the effect of salt water bloat on your body. Simply take the overall change in your bodyweight and subtract any change that you calculate is due to a positive calorie balance (when your caloric intake is higher than your calorie expenditures). 
But an extreme salt craving can be a symptom of Addison's disease (a hormonal disorder) or Barrter's syndrome (a rare kidney disorder). If you have too much sodium in your body, you might get very thirsty and urinate more to get rid of the excess. You probably hear about too much sodium, or hypernatremia, much more often than you hear about hyponatremia. But sometimes your kidneys can't eliminate all of the excess. 