Shares & Saves. Save. Tylenol is an over-the-counter pain reliever which is useful in reducing fevers as well as treating arthritis, colds, toothaches, muscle aches, backaches and headaches. It is widely available in drug stores and supermarkets and comes in a variety of dosages. Active Ingredient. Tylenol contains acetaminophen. This OTC medication is an analgesic (relieves pain without affecting consciousness) and an antipyretic (fever reducer) which is manufactured by McNeil Consumer Healthcare.
Acetaminophen is a pain reliever and a fever reducer. Acetaminophen is used to treat many conditions such as headache, muscle aches, arthritis, backache, toothaches, colds, and fevers. Acetaminophen may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide. 
Compared to other over-the-counter pain relievers, paracetamol is significantly more toxic in overdose but may be less toxic when used chronically at recommended doses. Paracetamol is the active metabolite of phenacetin and acetanilide, both once popular as analgesics and antipyretics in their own right. The common adult dose is 500 mg to 1000 mg. The recommended maximum daily dose, for adults, is 4000 mg. In recommended doses, paracetamol is generally safe for children and infants, as well as for adults, although rare cases of acute liver injury have been linked to amounts lower than 2500 mg per day.
Acetaminophen (USAN) or paracetamol (International Nonproprietary Name) is a popular analgesic (pain-controlling) and antipyretic (fever-reducing) drug that is used for the relief of headaches, fever, and minor aches and pains, such as pain in joints and muscles. Acetaminophen is an organic compound that inhibits synthesis of prostagladins in the central nervous system, thus raising the body's pain threshold, and further impacts the temperature-regulating center of the brain, thus reducing fever. Its exact mechanism is still poorly understood.
Acetaminophen is the name generally used in the United States (USAN) and Japan (JAN); paracetamol is used in international venues (INN, AAN, BAN). In some contexts, such as on prescription bottles of painkillers that incorporate this medicine, it is simply abbreviated as APAP, for a cetyl-p ara-a mino p henol. The common adult dose is 500 mg to 1000 mg. The recommended maximum daily dose, for adults, is 4000 mg. In recommended doses, paracetamol is generally safe for children and infants, as well as for adults, although rare cases of acute liver injury have been linked to amounts lower than 2500 mg per day.
Acetaminophen is a common pain reliever/fever reducer that can be found in more than 600 over-the-counter and prescription medicines and is one of the most commonly used medicines in the United States. 
Paracetamol, also known as acetaminophen or APAP, is a widely used over-the-counter pain medication and medication to reduce fever. It is commonly used to help with headaches, other minor aches and pains, and is a major ingredient in many cold medications. The common adult dose is 500 mg to 1000 mg. The recommended maximum daily dose, for adults, is 4000 mg. In recommended doses, paracetamol is generally safe for children and infants, as well as for adults, although rare cases of acute liver injury have been linked to amounts lower than 2500 mg per day.
Paracetamol, also known as acetaminophen or APAP, is a widely used over-the-counter pain medication and medication to reduce fever. It is commonly used to help with headaches, other minor aches and pains, and is a major ingredient in many cold medications. In combination with opioid analgesics, paracetamol is used in the management of more severe pain such as post-surgical and cancer pain.
The drug acetaminophen is a pain reliever (an analgesic) and a fever-reducing agent (an antipyretic). It is found in over-the-counter medicines such as Tylenol and Excedrin. It is widely used to treat both chronic and acute pain and is considered to have a pain-relieving potency similar to that of other over-the-counter analgesics, such as aspirin and ibuprofen. Acetaminophen is known to cause less stomach irritation than aspirin and ibuprofen, and it does not inhibit platelet aggregation and blood clotting (as does aspirin). When given in its therapeutic dose (500 mg every 4–6 hours), acetaminophen is a safe and effective pain reliever.