Pretty unlikely that the halfway house will give any non-resident the rules, since they are contracters for the BOP. I know of cases where cell phones are required for employment and therefore allowed, but outside the facility only.
Thank you Sharon...I also had no idea that rent had to be paid in halfway house, plus restitution. He will be able to get out of the halfway house once he has a job and savings of $500. The halfway house [not really a house, more of a small office building], housing fifty men, is twenty minutes from my house and the area is good.
Free government cell phones are a small cost to pay for the beneﬁts they provide not just to the residents of halfway houses, but to society as a whole.
Has anyone heard of a halfway house allowing cell phones? I did a drive by to where my husband will be going in two weeks (:) one step closer) and I saw two guys outside (in different areas) both talking on cell phones.
The Minnesota Department of Corrections has cautiously begun testing a similar concept for state offenders who participate in a work-release program and live in a halfway house. These aren’t smart phones, but rather no-frills cell phones pre-programmed with two numbers: the halfway house and 911.
But a halfway house shares much with prison. It’s a lockdown environment for all of the hours you aren’t working (with minor exceptions, for church, workouts, etc.). There are no incoming phone calls in the HH and you’re not allowed to have a cell phone.
Do’s & Don’ts of a Halfway House. While all transitional living houses have individual rules, the main thing residents must do is not drink or use drugs and go to meetings of either AA or NA that are likely near the house. The more meetings you can go to the better. Be on the look out at meetings for people who you can relate to.
“Most (state) halfway houses have ‘no-cell phone’ rules and certainly ‘no smart-phone” rules,’ said John Schadl, communications director for the Minnesota Department of Corrections.