Menthol, spearmint and peppermint are used in Colgate toothpastes. 4. Fluoride slows the growth rate of plaque helping to reduce the negative effects of any sticky film on your teeth. Artificial sweetener – Sodium Saccharin: Without adding sodium saccharin, toothpaste would have a bitter taste. 
Oral Health-Related Conditions ». February 3, 2010 - Most toothpastes use saccharin as a sweetener. The U.S. Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act's Delaney Clause prohibits the use of any food additive that has been shown to cause cancer when ingested by humans or animals.. 
A: We use saccharin as a sweetener in Crest for a variety of reasons. Saccharin offers better stability both during manufacture and while on store shelves or in your medicine cabinet. Saccharin does not contribute to the development of cavities. We're confident our use of saccharin is completely safe for our customers, or we would not use it. Consumers regularly ingest higher levels of saccharin in more frequently used foods and beverages than we would ever expect them to ingest by using Crest.
Saccharin Safety in Toothpaste. Toothpaste on a toothbrush. Photo Credit merznatalia/iStock/Getty Images. Saccharin, a petroleum-based sugar substitute, is used in soft drinks, diet food and personal hygiene products such as lip balm and toothpaste. It is approximately 350 times sweeter than sugar, according to the USITC, and is commonly added to lip balm, mouthwash and toothpaste. Food-grade saccharin must meet standards established by the FDA in the Food Chemical Codex and U.S. Pharmacopeia, according to the USITC.
(October 2015). Saccharin is an artificial sweetener with effectively no food energy which is about 300–400 times as sweet as sucrose or table sugar, but has a bitter or metallic aftertaste, especially at high concentrations. It is used to sweeten products such as drinks, candies, cookies, medicines, and toothpaste. The form used as an artificial sweetener is usually its sodium salt. The calcium salt is also sometimes used, especially by people restricting their dietary sodium intake. Both salts are highly water-soluble: 0.67 g/ml water at room temperature.
Toothpaste composition is dependent on the type of toothpaste and the manufacturer. Wetting and flavoring agents are common additives. Acesulfame-K, sucralose, aspartylphenylalanine methyl ester, alitame and tagatose are in the same class of sweetener as saccharin, but saccharin sodium is less expensive to produce. It is approximately 350 times sweeter than sugar, according to the USITC, and is commonly added to lip balm, mouthwash and toothpaste. Food-grade saccharin must meet standards established by the FDA in the Food Chemical Codex and U.S. Pharmacopeia, according to the USITC.
Sodium saccharin is a salt of the artificial sweetener saccharin. Sodium saccharin is the solid form of the artificial sweetener saccharin. Saccharin is non-nutritive and is used to add sweetness to beverages and foods without the calories or detrimental effects of consuming sugar. Using artificial sweeteners can help you reduce your consumption of sugar.
In its acid form, saccharin is not water-soluble. The form used as an artificial sweetener is usually its sodium salt. The calcium salt is also sometimes used, especially by people restricting their dietary sodium intake. Both salts are highly water-soluble: 0.67 g/ml water at room temperature.
Saccharin is used in many diet sodas to sweeten them without the added calories of sugar. Photo Credit Jupiterimages/Comstock/Getty Images. Saccharin sodium is a type of artificial sweetener that is sweeter than sucrose but has a bitter aftertaste. Saccharin sodium is often used to sweeten soft drinks, candy, biscuits, medicine and toothpaste
Saccharin is heat stable. It does not react chemically with other food ingredients, as such, it stores well. Blends of saccharin with other sweeteners are often used to compensate for each sweetener's weaknesses and faults. A 10:1 cyclamate :saccharin blend is common in countries where both these sweeteners are legal; in this blend, each sweetener masks the other's off taste. The form used as an artificial sweetener is usually its sodium salt. The calcium salt is also sometimes used, especially by people restricting their dietary sodium intake. Both salts are highly water-soluble: 0.67 g/ml water at room temperature.