Steam Reforming Steam reforming is the most widespread process for the generation of hydrogen-rich synthesis gas from light carbohydrates. The feed materials natural gas, liquid gas or naphtha are endothermically converted with water steam into synthesis gas in catalytic tube reactors.
Partial oxidation of heavier hydrocarbons is also used to a limited extent. In the overall steam methane reforming (SMR) reaction, methane reacts with steam at high temperatures and moderate pressures in catalyst-filled tubes to generate synthesis gas, a mixture of hydrogen, carbon monoxide and some carbon dioxide.
In steam reforming ammonia plants there is a surplus of high-level heat that is produced in primary reforming, secondary reforming, shift conversion and ammonia synthesis. Most of the waste heat is recovered for producing high pressure steam that is used in turbines for driving compressors, pumps and fans.
The natural gas use in a an ammonia plant using the steam reforming process ranges between 28 and 35.5 GJ/tonne, of which about 20-22 GJ/tonne of ammonia is used as feedstock, 7.2-9.0 GJ/tonne is fuel consumed in the primary reformer, and the remaining 0.5-4.2 GJ/tonne is used in auxiliary boilers and others.
In steam-methane reforming, methane reacts with steam under 3–25 bar pressure (1 bar = 14.5 psi) in the presence of a catalyst to produce hydrogen, carbon monoxide, and a relatively small amount of carbon dioxide. Steam reforming is endothermic—that is, heat must be supplied to the process for the reaction to proceed. Subsequently, in what is called the water-gas shift reaction, the carbon monoxide and steam are reacted using a catalyst to produce carbon dioxide and more hydrogen.
In steam reforming, hydrogen is produced by reforming the hydrocarbon feedstock, producing synthesis gas containing a mixture of carbon monoxide and hydrogen. The carbon monoxide is then reacted with steam in the water-gas-shift reaction to produce carbon di
1 Steam-naphtha reforming is a continuous process for the production of hydrogen from liquid hydrocarbons and is, in fact, similar to steam-methane reforming. 2  A variety of naphthas in the gasoline boiling range may be employed, including fuel containing up to 35% aromatics.
Steam-Methane Reforming. Most hydrogen produced today in the United States is made via steam-methane reforming, a mature production process in which high-temperature steam (700°C–1,000°C) is used to produce hydrogen from a methane source, such as natural gas.