In our state of nature, Hobbes says we have no rights but Locke suggests that we have natural rights. Hobbes shows that humans are naturally evil that lays down the groundwork for his form of government. Hobbes and Locke’s theories differ greatly beginning with their views of human nature. Hobbes suggests that people are naturally, solitary, poor, nasty, and brutish. He also says that without authority mankind is selfish and egotistical. John Locke, on the other hand, sees people as being peaceful in their nature state
John Locke and Human Rights. Enlightenment philosophers and political theorists further explored the idea that the power of monarchs (kings) should be limited and should be based on the consent of the people, and that monarchs should respect the rights of their subjects. John Locke. He was among the first to advocate the view that people have natural rights simply because they are human beings, and that these natural rights should be protected by the government. Locke’s most important piece of political philosophy is his Second Treatise of Civil Government.
Some argue that this is a misguided question. They say that Locke’s political philosophy is not based on natural law at all, but instead on natural rights, like the philosophy of Thomas Hobbes. This is probably the greatest controversy in Locke interpretation today. Locke says individuals have a duty to respect the property (and lives and liberties) of others even in the state of nature, a duty he traces to natural law. Natural law and natural rights coexist, but natural law is primary, commanding respect for the rights of others.
· just now. Report Abuse. Hobbes' view of human nature was that all people were inherently 'bad,' and from the start were nasty and brutish and inclined to cheat, lie, steal, argue, etc. He felt that only an absolute, monarchical government could control such a population of wretched people. 
Locke's political theory was founded on social contract theory. Unlike Thomas Hobbes, Locke believed that human nature is characterised by reason and tolerance. Like Hobbes, Locke believed that human nature allowed people to be selfish. This is apparent with the introduction of currency. Locke's theory of mind is often cited as the origin of modern conceptions of identity and the self, figuring prominently in the work of later philosophers such as Hume, Rousseau, and Kant. Locke was the first to define the self through a continuity of consciousness.
Locke opposed Thomas Hobbes’s view that the original state of nature was “nasty, brutish, and short,” and that individuals through a social contract surrendered—for the sake of self-preservation—their rights [...]. Locke versus Hobbes. by jamesd@echeque.com. Locke and Hobbes were both social contract theorists, and both natural law theorists (Natural law in the sense of Saint Thomas Aquinas, not Natural law in the sense of Newton), but there the resemblance ends. All other natural law theorists assumed that man was by nature a social animal
The Nature of Man John Locke. Where Thomas Hobbes viewed humanity as being governed by innate qualities that predisposed humans to violence, and to the pursuit of power and glory, the philosopher John Locke had a very different view of the nature of man. 
Locke's monumental An Essay Concerning Human Understanding (1689) is one of the first great defenses of empiricism and concerns itself with determining the limits of human understanding in respect to a wide spectrum of topics. 
Hobbes and Locke on the Rights of Man. The English philosophers Thomas Hobbes (1588-1679) and John Locke (1632-1704). promulgated divergent views of human rights that reflected both the influence of their respective times. and fundamentally different attitudes towards human nature.