According to the U.S. Treasury, the motto E pluribus unum was first used on U.S. coinage in 1795, when the reverse of the half-eagle ($5 gold) coin presented the main features of the Great Seal of the United States. E pluribus unum is inscribed on the Great Seal's scroll. The motto was added to certain silver coins in 1798, and soon appeared on all of the coins made out of precious metals (gold and silver). In 1834, it was dropped from most of the gold coins to mark the change in the standard fineness of the coins. 1 The motto E pluribus unum is used by Portuguese multi-sport club Benfica. 2  This motto has also been used by the Scoutspataljon, a professional infantry battalion of the Estonian Defence Forces, since 1918. 3  A variant of the motto, unum e pluribus is used by the Borough of Wokingham in Berkshire, United Kingdom.
E pluribus unum is Latin; it means Out of Many One and refers to the idea that the United States is made up of individual states and populated by individual citizens, but we come together as a single country. Confidence votes 314. E pluribus unum is Latin; it means Out of Many One and refers to the idea that the United States is made up of individual states and populated by individual citizens, but we come together as a single country. It is on most US coins. Out of many, one.
The original motto of the United States was secular.  E Pluribus Unum  is Latin for . One from many  or . One from many parts .. It refers to the welding of a single federal state from a group of individual political units -- originally colonies and now states. 
E PLURIBUS UNUM Origin and Meaning of the Motto Carried in the Beak of the Bald Eagle on the Great Seal E pluribus unum is the motto suggested by the committee Congress appointed on July 4, 1776 to design a seal for the United States of America.. The below sketch of their design accompanied a detailed description of their idea for the new nation's official emblem. in his beak a scroll, inscribed with this Motto. E pluribus unum. . Thomson explained that the motto E pluribus unum alludes to the union between the states and federal government, as symbolized by the shield on the eagle's breast.
E Pluribus Unum refers to the fact that the United States was formed as a cohesive single nation as the result of the thirteen smaller colonies joining together. The motto E Pluribus Unum was first proposed by the U.S. Continental Congress in 1782, for use on the Great Seal of the United States.
The phrase e pluribus unum is Latin, and it translates literally as out of many, one.. Many people are familiar with this phrase from the context of the Great Seal of the United States, which appears on some American currency and government documents. 
E Pluribus Unum on the great seal of the United States.  E pluribus unum  is the official motto of the United States. It means out of many, one in Latin. It has been placed on the U.S. dollar bill, and other related items.
E Pluribus Unum was the motto proposed for the first Great Seal of the United States by John Adams, Benjamin Franklin, and Thomas Jefferson in 1776. A latin phrase meaning One from many, the phrase offered a strong statement of the American determination to form a single nation from a collection of states. 
Answer by Darknight224. Confidence votes 314. E pluribus unum is Latin; it means Out of Many One and refers to the idea that the United States is made up of individual states and populated by individual citizens, but we come together as a single country. It is on most US coins. Out of many, one.
The Latin phrase E Pluribus Unum translates to “Out of many, one.” It was the national motto of the United States until replaced in the 1950s by In God We Trust and appears on the Great Seal of the United States of America as well as the Seal of the President of the United States. 