[ syll. kyah, ky-ah ] The baby girl name Kyah is pronounced as KY AA - †. The origin of Kyah is Native American-Hopi and English. Kyah is a variant of the name Kaya (English and Japanese). Kyah is also a variant of the name Kiya. Kyah is also a variant of the name Kya (English). Kyah is infrequently used as a baby name for girls. It is listed outside of the top 1000 names. Out of the group of girl names directly linked to Kyah, Kaya was the most popular in 2012
The name Kyah has the following meaning: From the greek word meaning Earth. It is a female name, suitable for baby girls. Origins. The name Kyah is very likely a(n) Greek variant of the name Kaia. See other suggested Greek girl baby names. You might also like to see the other variants of the name Kaia. See the meaning of Kaia for names of some famous persons with the name Kyah or Kaia (or their variants). Meaning of Names | Baby Boy Names A-Z | Baby Girl Names A-Z | Top 100 Baby Names | Sitemap | Privacy Policy | Tell Your Friends.
The name Kyah is a variant of Kaia. Other popular variants of the name Kaia are: Kaiah, Kaija, Kaya (English), Kayah, Kya (African), Kyah. Style. We think the name Kyah should fall under the following style category: Ladylike. See the meaning of Kaia for names of some famous persons with the name Kyah or Kaia (or their variants). Meaning of Names | Baby Boy Names A-Z | Baby Girl Names A-Z | Top 100 Baby Names | Sitemap | Privacy Policy | Tell Your Friends.
Origin: American. Meaning: The American name Kyah means-a form of Kya. Rating: Meaning: The African name Kyah means-a form of Kya. Rating:
According to the 2014 U.S. Social Security Administration data, the name Kyah is not a popular baby girl's name in Oklahoma. Imagine that, only 6 babies in Oklahoma have the same name as you in 2014. Across the entire United States a total of only 101 babies also bear the same first name during the same year. 
Personal experiences with the name Kyah: | Edit. Daughter is named Kyah, liked Kiah but spelled it Kyah as people were pronouncing it KEY-AH like the car brand KIA. Lovely name. Everyone we've met has like this name. Love the meanings of this name as much as the sound of the name. 
Kya is of English origin and it is also used mainly in English. The name could be a modern coinage, or else possibly of African origin. Variant forms share both the origin and meaning of Kya. Kya's language of origin is African. The meaning here is 'diamond in the sky'. Variants of Kya include Kia (English), Kiah, Ky, and Kyah. Kya is a variant of Kay (English and German) in the English language. Kya is also a variant of Kiya. Kya is also a variant of Kyla (Yiddish and English). Kya is a rare baby girl name. At the modest peak of its usage in 2004, 0.019% of baby girls were named Kya