Another heating option you have is heating your home with oil. When thinking about choosing an oil heating system, you need to think about performance, portability, the impact it has on the environment, and cost. When it comes to performance, oil heating systems are much faster than both gas and electric systems. There are several different ways to provide heat to your home, with central heating, oil heating, and wood heating being the top three choices of most homeowners. There are, however some different factors that you need to think about before making a decision as to which type of heating is best for your home.
1 Click here for information on Efficiency Maine’s incentives and home energy loans for heating system upgrades. 2  It typically costs $1.22 in weatherization to save a gallon of heating oil so be sure to consider weatherization if you are trying to reduce your heating costs. Compare Heating Costs. This home heating cost comparison tool can help you estimate what your annual heating costs would be using different heating systems. Look for the row that best describes your current heating system then press the Increase or Decrease buttons until the Annual Cost approximates yours.
FACT: Heating oil systems have a longer life. The average life expectancy of an oil heat appliance is 30 or more years if they are properly maintained. The average life expectancy of a natural gas furnace is only 11-14 years. And, the efficiency ratings of new heating oil systems range from 83% to 95%. And, converting a heating oil system to natural gas is expensive, with tank removal, chimney, plumbing and duct work potentially costing over $9,000! 2. FACT: Heating oil is a clean fuel. Today, oil produces almost zero emissions and the latest oil system technologies 'reburn' fuel, lowering emissions even further.
However, heating a home with a geothermal heat pump or a cold climate heat pump would be less expensive than using oil.At $4.67 a gallon for oil, it would cost the same to produce the same amount of heat using oil or electric baseboard heat. For example, a home that uses 800 gallons of oil for heating would use about 25,300 kilowatt-hours to produce the same amount of heat. Visit www.cmpco.com for a link to a more detailed spreadsheet from the Department of Energy to compare heating costs.
Not all home heating fuels are created equal. Here's what it would cost to heat the average home in the Northeast with oil, natural gas, electricity, and propane, as forecast by the Energy Information Administration (EIA): A propane truck from Berwick Gas Sales, based in Berwick, Pa., is parked at the edge of a gas station in this March 2012 file photo. In the winter of 2006-07, some 6.5 million homes used it for primary heat; this winter, that number is down to 5.6 million, according to EIA estimates. The cost varies a lot by region. In the Midwest, heating a home with propane costs an average of only $1,534. In Maine, propane is replacing oil because it's cheaper to use
By factoring in the fuel price and the efficiency of the heating appliances, it allows you to estimate the cost of heating the average home (1500 sq. ft.). An average, well-insulated home uses approximately 50,000 Btu per sq. ft., or approximately 540 gallons of fuel oil per year. Home Heating Calculator. Typically, approximately 50% of the energy consumed in a home annually is for space heating. When deciding on a heating system, many factors will come into play: cost of fuel, installation cost, convenience and life style are all important.
12.5. The average Maryland oil-heated home uses between 500 and 600 gallons of heating oil per season. In Maryland, the average winter temperature is 34.1°F. Through the winter months, this equals roughly 540 gallons. 
Question: With the cost of oil being so high, is it less expensive to heat my home with electricity than with oil? Answer: Based on prices as of August 2009, heating a home with an oil-fired system would be less expensive than heating a home with electric baseboard heat. For example, a home that uses 800 gallons of oil for heating would use about 25,300 kilowatt-hours to produce the same amount of heat. Visit www.cmpco.com for a link to a more detailed spreadsheet from the Department of Energy to compare heating costs.