brewery-a plant where beer is brewed by fermentation. brewpub-a combination brewery and restaurant; beer is brewed for consumption on the premises and served along with food. microbrewery-a small brewery; consumption of the product is mainly elsewhere.
A brewery or brewing company is a business that makes and sells beer. The place at which beer is commercially made is either called a brewery or a beerhouse, where distinct sets of brewing equipment are called plant. The commercial brewing of beer has taken place since at least 2500 BC; in ancient Mesopotamia, brewers derived social sanction and divine protection from the goddess Ninkasi. 1 Microbrewery – A late-20th-century name for a small brewery. 2  The term started to be supplanted with craft brewer at the start of the 21st century. 3  Brewpub – A brewery whose beer is brewed primarily on the same site from which it is sold to the public, such as a pub or restaurant.
A brewpub can be a pub or restaurant that brews beer on the premises. Some, such as those in Germany, have been brewing traditionally for hundreds of years. Others are modern restaurants. By July 2013, the number of brewpubs in Shanghai, China had doubled since 2010. China, the world's largest beer consumer as of July 2013, is home to a growing craft beer market, with brands such as Slowboat Brewery, Shanghai Brewery, and Boxing Cat Brewery. Cambodia 's first microbrewery, Kingdom Breweries, opened in 2009 and brews dark, pilsener, and lager beers.
As the movement grew and some breweries expanded their production and distribution, the more encompassing concept of craft brewing emerged. A related term,  brewpub , refers to a pub or restaurant that brews its own beer for sale on the premises. China, the world's largest beer consumer as of July 2013, is home to a growing craft beer market, with brands such as Slowboat Brewery, Shanghai Brewery, and Boxing Cat Brewery. Cambodia 's first microbrewery, Kingdom Breweries, opened in 2009 and brews dark, pilsener, and lager beers.
1 Brewpub – A brewery whose beer is brewed primarily on the same site from which it is sold to the public, such as a pub or restaurant. 2  If the amount of beer that a brewpub distributes off-site exceeds 75%, it may also be described as a craft or microbrewery. 1 Microbrewery – A late-20th-century name for a small brewery. 2  The term started to be supplanted with craft brewer at the start of the 21st century. 3  Brewpub – A brewery whose beer is brewed primarily on the same site from which it is sold to the public, such as a pub or restaurant.
A microbrewery or craft brewery is a brewery that produces a small amount of beer. Exact definitions vary, but the terms are typically applied to breweries that are much smaller than large-scale corporate breweries and are independently owned. China, the world's largest beer consumer as of July 2013, is home to a growing craft beer market, with brands such as Slowboat Brewery, Shanghai Brewery, and Boxing Cat Brewery. Cambodia 's first microbrewery, Kingdom Breweries, opened in 2009 and brews dark, pilsener, and lager beers.
1 Farm brewery – A farm brewery, or farmhouse brewery, is a brewery that primarily brews its beer on a farm. 2  Crops and other ingredients grown on the farm, such as barley, wheat, rye, hops, herbs, spices, and fruits are used in the beers brewed. 1 Microbrewery – A late-20th-century name for a small brewery. 2  The term started to be supplanted with craft brewer at the start of the 21st century. 3  Brewpub – A brewery whose beer is brewed primarily on the same site from which it is sold to the public, such as a pub or restaurant.
Definition of BREWPUB. : a restaurant that sells beverages brewed on the premises. 
A brewpub combines the efforts of a microbrewery or craft brewery with the concept of a traditional English pub or  public house . Brewmasters work within the confines of a pub-style restaurant in order to provide customers with unique beers on tap. In the world of beer, there are a number of different establishments where beer enthusiasts can sample the goods. Some may visit bars or beer gardens which keep a substantial number of different brews on tap or in bottles.