Hydrocarbons and alkanes. Most of the compounds in crude oil are hydrocarbons. This means that they only contain hydrogen and carbon atoms, joined together by chemical bonds. There are different types of hydrocarbon, but most of the ones in crude oil are alkanes. The alkanes are a family of hydrocarbons that share the same general formula. This is: C n H 2n+2. The general formula means that the number of hydrogen atoms in an alkane is double the number of carbon atoms, plus two. For example, methane is CH 4 and ethane is C 2 H 6.
Chain compounds in which all carbon-to-carbon bonds are only simple single bonds are called ALKANES. These compounds are also called saturated hydrocarbons, because each carbon-to-carbon bond is a single bond, and the valence of the carbon atom is, therefore, saturated. Introduction to the Alkanes. Hydrocarbons are simple organic compounds which contain only carbon and hydrogen. If the carbon atoms are linked in chains, the compounds are called aliphatic compounds; if the atoms are linked in rings, the compounds are called alicyclic.
By Anne Marie Helmenstine, Ph.D. The simplest organic compounds are hydrocarbons. Hydrocarbons contain only two elements, hydrogen and carbon. A saturated hydrocarbon or alkane is a hydrocarbon in which all of the carbon-carbon bonds are single bonds. Each carbon atom forms four bonds and each hydrogen forms a single bond to a carbon. Straight Chain Alkanes. The general formula for an alkane is C n H 2n+2 where n is the number of carbon atoms in the molecule. There are two ways of writing a condensed structural formula. For example, butane may be written as CH 3 CH 2 CH 2 CH 3 or CH 3 (CH 2) 2 CH 3.
Alkanes are hydrocarbons in which the carbon atoms are held together by single bonds. Their general formula is C n H 2n+2 for molecules which do not contain ring structures. Straight-chain alkanes are named by using a stem that indicates the number of carbon atoms (meth = 1 C, eth = 2 C's, prop = 3 C's, etc.) to which is added the suffix-ane, indicating that the molecule is an alkane (that is, that the carbon atoms are all connected by single bonds).
1 Saturated hydrocarbons (alkanes) are the simplest of the hydrocarbon species. 2  They are composed entirely of single bonds and are saturated with hydrogen. 3  The general formula for saturated hydrocarbons is C n H 2n+2 (assuming non-cyclic structures). The classifications for hydrocarbons, defined by IUPAC nomenclature of organic chemistry are as follows: 1 
1 Alkanes are Saturated Hydrocarbons. 2  They consist of the elements Carbon and Hydrogen, and all the bonds between the Carbon atoms are single bonds. 3  They have the general formula CnH2n+2. 4  Since all Alkanes are similar in structure and properties, they are called a Homologous Series. 
In organic chemistry, an alkane, or paraffin (a historical name that also has other meanings), is a saturated hydrocarbon. Alkanes consist only of hydrogen and carbon atoms and all bonds are single bonds. Alkanes (technically, always acyclic or open-chain compounds) have the general chemical formula C n H 2n+2. For example, methane is CH 4, in which n=1 (n being the number of carbon atoms). Alkanes from nonane to, for instance, hexadecane (an alkane with sixteen carbon atoms) are liquids of higher viscosity, less and less suitable for use in gasoline. They form instead the major part of diesel and aviation fuel.
Alkanes belong to a homologous series of organic compounds in which the members differ by a molecular mass of 14.03u (mass of a methanediyl group, —CH 2 —, one carbon atom of mass 12.01u, and two hydrogen atoms of mass ≈ 1.01u each). There are two main commercial sources: petroleum (crude oil) and natural gas. Alkanes from nonane to, for instance, hexadecane (an alkane with sixteen carbon atoms) are liquids of higher viscosity, less and less suitable for use in gasoline. They form instead the major part of diesel and aviation fuel.
Hydrocarbons. Most of the compounds in crude oil are hydrocarbons. This means that they only contain hydrogen and carbon atoms, joined together by chemical bonds. There are different types of hydrocarbon, but most of the ones in crude oil are alkanes. The alkanes are a family of hydrocarbons that share the same general formula. This is: C n H 2n+2. The general formula means that the number of hydrogen atoms in an alkane is double the number of carbon atoms, plus two. For example, methane is CH 4 and ethane is C 2 H 6.
Alkanes are the simplest organic molecules, consisting of only carbon and hydrogen and with only single bonds between carbon atoms. Alkanes are used as the basis for naming the majority of organic compounds (their nomenclature). Alkanes have the general formula C n H 2n+2. 