In Graves’ disease, antibodies mistakenly attack the thyroid gland, stimulating it to grow and produce an excess of thyroid hormone. Researchers also theorize that affected individuals may carry genes for, or have a genetic susceptibility to, Graves’ disease. Graves' disease is a rare disease affecting the thyroid gland and often the skin and eyes. This disorder is characterized by abnormal enlargement of the thyroid gland (goiter) and increased secretion of thyroid hormone (hyperthyroidism).
Most people with Graves' disease have symptoms that are bothersome. If you have symptoms of Graves' disease, your doctor will do an exam and order one or more tests. Tests used to help find out if you have Graves' disease include: 1  Thyroid function tests. 2  A blood sample is sent to a lab to see if your body has the right amount of thyroid hormone (T4) and TSH. Most people with Graves' disease have symptoms of an overactive thyroid, such as: 1  Goiter (enlarged thyroid). 2  Trouble sleeping. 3  Irritability or nervousness. 4  Heat sensitivity, increased sweating. 5  Hand tremors. 6  Rapid heartbeat. 7  Thinning of skin or fine, brittle hair. 8  Frequent bowel movements.
Symptoms of Graves’ disease are caused by overproduction of thyroid hormone by the thyroid gland, which leads to abnormally elevated levels of thyroid hormone in the body (thyrotoxicosis). The thyroid gland is a thin, butterfly-shaped organ located in front of the windpipe (trachea). Graves' disease is a rare disease affecting the thyroid gland and often the skin and eyes. This disorder is characterized by abnormal enlargement of the thyroid gland (goiter) and increased secretion of thyroid hormone (hyperthyroidism).
Graves' disease is an autoimmune disease that affects the thyroid. The thyroid is a small gland in the front of the neck. It makes hormones called T3 and T4 that regulate how the body uses energy. Thyroid hormone levels are controlled by the pituitary, which is a pea-sized gland in the brain. Most people with Graves' disease have symptoms of an overactive thyroid, such as: 1  Goiter (enlarged thyroid). 2  Trouble sleeping. 3  Irritability or nervousness. 4  Heat sensitivity, increased sweating. 5  Hand tremors. 6  Rapid heartbeat. 7  Thinning of skin or fine, brittle hair. 8  Frequent bowel movements.
A method called antigen-specific immunotherapy is an important breakthrough in targeted treatment against autoimmune diseases where the immune system attacks and destroys healthy body tissues. The discovery, made by researchers of the University of Bristol, was published Wednesday in Nature Communications. With antigen-specific immunotherapy, scientists were able to selectively target the cells that cause autoimmunity and reverse their role. The aggressive cells were converted to cells capable of protecting against disease. This method of converting cells has been used earlier in allergy treatment.
When you have an autoimmune disorder, your immune system does not distinguish between healthy tissue and antigens. As a result, the body sets off a reaction that destroys normal tissues. The white blood cells in the body’s immune system help protect against harmful substances. Examples include bacteria, viruses, toxins, cancer cells, and blood and tissue from outside the body. These substances contain antigens. The immune system produces antibodies against these antigens that enable it to destroy these harmful substanc
In autoimmune diseases, such as multiple sclerosis (MS), type 1 diabetes, Graves' disease and systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), the immune system is unable to distinguish between healthy tissues and harmful antigens. The result is destruction of tissue, abnormal growth, or changes in organ function. With antigen-specific immunotherapy, scientists were able to selectively target the cells that cause autoimmunity and reverse their role. The aggressive cells were converted to cells capable of protecting against disease. This method of converting cells has been used earlier in allergy treatment.
Graves’ disease is a disorder of the immune system. It is not known why the lymphocytes—white blood cells involved in the body's protective defenses—begin to attack the body's own tissues. When lymphocytes attack the thyroid gland, it responds by producing too much thyroid hormone. 
These substances contain antigens. The immune system produces antibodies against these antigens that enable it to destroy these harmful substances. When you have an autoimmune disorder, your immune system does not distinguish between healthy tissue and antigens. As a result, the body sets off a reaction that destroys normal tissues. The exact cause of autoimmune disorders is unknown