Getting around Croatia. Flights to Croatia touch down at a number of airports, making travel within Croatia easy to navigate by land, air or sea. Zagreb, Croatia’s capitol, is the transportation hub of the country, hosting an airport and a major bus station as well as serving as the meeting point for several rail lines. Off-peak Season: Croatia experiences plenty of precipitation during the fall and spring seasons, but these transitional periods make for the best time to find cheap flights to Croatia.
Our web check-in service is available for direct scheduled flights operated by Croatia Airlines. In order to offer a better service of web check-in, we are currently in the process of migration to the new system. Therefore, this service is offered exclusively for departures from cities listed in the drop-down menu, with a few exceptions, and the list of these flights can be checked here.
Croatia flights are filled with holiday travelers seeking sun and surf during the winter months and cruise ships docks millions of travelers a year on Croatia’s coastline. Off-peak Season: Croatia experiences plenty of precipitation during the fall and spring seasons, but these transitional periods make for the best time to find cheap flights to Croatia.
Croatia Airlines. Croatia Airlines is the national airline of Croatia. Through its hub in Zagreb, Croatia Airlines serves 22 destinations in 10 countries in Europe including Austria, Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, Netherlands, Switzerland and the United Kingdom. Earn MileagePlus miles on all qualifying Croatia Airlines flights, as noted in the charts below. You’ll earn miles according to the booking class that you purchase. To receive mileage credit, present your MileagePlus number when you make reservations and make sure that it appears on your boarding pass at check-in.
There’s no wrong time to book flights to Croatia. Whether you’re planning to spend time basking in the Dalmatian sun or partying under the Zagreb moonlight, the flight to Croatia is just the first-step toward your memorable European vacation. Off-peak Season: Croatia experiences plenty of precipitation during the fall and spring seasons, but these transitional periods make for the best time to find cheap
About Flying to Croatia. Pack your bags, book your Croatia flights, and get ready for an adventure. Whether you’re looking for an action-packed getaway or a peaceful sojourn, you’ll find countless ways to customize your trip exactly to your liking. Here at Expedia, we’re committed to helping you find cheap flights to Croatia that won’t break the bank. We know you want to put more of your hard-earned cash toward exploring the sites and less on the price of your airfare.
Flights to Zagreb will take you to a thriving Baltic city that’s an ideal vacation destination for any season. Peak Season: Zagreb flights fill up fast for the summer months, when hordes of visitors flock to the Croatian capital to see the sights in comfortable, sunny conditions. The hardest time of year to find cheap flights to Zagreb is after May, when thermometers in Zagreb hit their highest point at 85 degrees Fahrenheit.
1 The prices refer to Croatia Airlines return flights and include airport taxes and the Ticket Service Charge for purchase on our website. 2  Additional charge applies for ticket purchase at Croatia Airlines sales offices or over the phone. Flights from Brussels Return flights from 235 € Brussels-Zagreb from 287 € Brussels-Dubrovnik from 215 € Brussels-Split from 205 € Brussels-Zadar from 204 € Brussels-Pula Conditions. 1  from 235 € Brussels-Zagreb. 2  from 287 € Brussels-Dubrovnik. 3  from 215 € Brussels-Split.
When it comes to finding flights to Croatia that match your price range and itinerary, look no further than our options right here. We offer a variety of airlines, airports, and flight times making it easier for you to book your airfare. Whether you’re looking for a redeye ticket or a flight to a specific terminal, you’ll find exactly what you need. Here at Expedia, we’re committed to helping you find cheap flights to Croatia that won’t break the bank. We know you want to put more of your hard-earned cash toward exploring the sites and less on the price of