1 If you're age 50 or older and at average risk of colon cancer — you have no colon cancer risk factors other than age — your doctor may recommend a colonoscopy every 10 years or sometimes sooner to screen for colon cancer. 2  Colonoscopy is one option for colon cancer screening. 1 Screen for colon cancer. 2 
The age at which you should get your colonoscopy is sometimes known as your “colonoscopy age.” Adults who are at average risk for colon cancer should have a baseline colonoscopy at the age of 50 and every 10 years thereafter if the colonoscopy is clear, but age 50 is not the magic number for all people. For example, if your mother was diagnosed at age 45 with colon cancer, you should have your first screening at age 35. Recent studies are showing that family history plays a more important role than previously thought.
If the exam is normal, a colonoscopy should be repeated every 10 years up to the age of 75. If the test detects precancerous polyps, the physician will recommend that colonoscopies be repeated more frequently. “If you have a first-degree relative with colon cancer, exams should start between ages 35 and 40,” says Fuchs. Colonoscopy is the most reliable test, because doctors can visually study the entire colon and rectum, Fuchs says.
Colon cancer screening should begin at age 50 for most people. If a colonoscopy doesn’t find adenomas or cancer and you don’t have risk factors, the next test should be in ten years. If one or two small, low-risk adenomas are removed, the exam should be repeated in five to ten years. 
High Risk. The recommended age for a colonoscopy for people in this category is sometimes as young as 20 to 25 years. People at high risk for colon cancer are normally under the care of a specialist who makes the recommendation for a colonoscopy on the basis of careful monitoring and observation. If a family member was younger than age 50 when diagnosed with colon cancer, you should have the colonoscopy 10 years earlier than the age of that person when diagnosed.
The rule of thumb is that if any first-degree relative was diagnosed with colon cancer or polyps, you should be screened 10 years before the youngest case in the immediate family. For example, if your mother was diagnosed at age 45 with colon cancer, you should have your first screening at age 35. Recent studies are showing that family history plays a more important role than previously thought.
Persons who are at an increased risk should have a colonoscopy at age 40. If a family member was younger than age 50 when diagnosed with colon cancer, you should have the colonoscopy 10 years earlier than the age of that person when diagnosed.
Answered on: 6/28/2012. Children have colonoscopies, so age is not the only thing to consider. Talk to your doctor about your risk factors and his/her recommendation about having a colon. Harsha Vittal, M.D. Answered on: 6/14/2012. You should get a colonoscopy at age 50 if you have no risk factors or at age 45 if you are African American. 
Men and women that are 50 years of age and older should undergo colonoscopy screening. If you are a high risk patient, the recommended age is typically at age 40, but may occur earlier depending upon your medical history. 
The age at which you should have your first colonoscopy varies according to your level of risk for developing colon cancer. Guidelines developed collaboratively by the American Cancer Society, the American College of Radiology and the U .S. If a family member was younger than age 50 when diagnosed with colon cancer, you should have the colonoscopy 10 years earlier than the age of that person when diagnosed.