· just now. Report Abuse. The correct answer-based on the most recent research-is that they are not closely related to any of these groups. All three domains of life (bacteria, archaea, and eukaryotes) are separate, and with the most current knowledge it is impossible to say which two shared a common ancestor. Eukaryotes and archaea share some characteristics, but so to bacteria and archaea. Based on older research, eukaryotes seem to share more with archaea, and that might be the answer your teacher wants to hear, but the most recent insights cannot tell to which of these two eukaryotes are most closely related. Source(s): http://www.ucmp.berkeley.edu/alllife/thr...
Then in our college courses, we were introduced to five kingdoms: Monera, Protista, Plantae, Fungi, and Animalia. Now biologists have adopted a three-domain system, which consists of the domains Bacteria, Archaea, and Eukarya. This system arose from the finding that there are two distinct lineages of prokaryotes. 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: We're in the Eukaryote domain, which is most closely related to Archaea. Source(s): See the Origin and Evolution section here: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eukaryotes. Cirbryn · 7 years ago. Thumbs up. Update: I know we are very closely related to chimpanzees...but that's not an answer...and this is a multiple choice question! I just doesn't make any sense to me with the given choices for answers.
Answered. In Animal Life. A raptor was closely related to a bird because when the raptors or two legged herbivores were running away from predators then as they ran away they had to run up steeper thin … gs too get away and that is how they developed wings to help then get up steeper things. 1 person found this useful. 
The Archaea (/ɑrˈkiːə/ or /ɑrˈkeɪə/ ar-KEE-ə or ar-KAY-ə; singular archaeon) constitute a domain or kingdom of single-celled microorganisms. These microbes are prokaryotes, meaning that they have no cell nucleus or any other membrane-bound organelles in their cells. Archaea and bacteria are generally similar in size and shape, although a few archaea have very strange shapes, such as the flat and square-shaped cells of Haloquadratum walsbyi.
We (humans) are in eukarya. Current thinking is that this domain is more closely related to archaea than to the other domain (which is the eubacteria). Update: I know we are very closely related to chimpanzees...but that's not an answer...and this is a multiple choice question! I just doesn't make any sense to me with the given choices for answers.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. A phylogenetic tree based on rRNA data, showing the separation of bacteria, archaea, and eukaryotes. The three-domain system is a biological classification introduced by Carl Woese et al. in 1977 that divides cellular life forms into archaea, bacteria, and eukaryote domains. The three-domain system adds a level of classification (the domains) above the kingdoms present in the previously used five-or-six-kingdom systems.
Organisms can be classified into one of three domains based on differences in the sequences of nucleotides in the cell's ribosomal RNAs (rRNA), the cell's membrane lipid structure, and its sensitivity to antibiotics. 3. The three domains are the Archaea, the Bacteria, and the Eukarya. 4. Prokaryotic organisms belong either to the domain Archaea or the domain Bacteria; organisms with eukaryotic cells belong to the domain Eukarya. 5. Microorganism transfer genes to other microorganisms through horizontal gene transfer-the transfer of DNA to an organism that is not its offspring.
Report Abuse. The 3 domains are Bacteria, Archaea, and Eukarya. The two domains that include all prokaryotes are the first two (Bacteria and Archaea). I would say the two domains most closely related are the two above, since they are both 'unicellular' prokaryotic organisms: all Eukarya have eukaryotic cells instead, and a huge number of Eukarya are multicellular. However, domain Bacteria are more similar to members of domain Eukarya in some specific ways than they are to Archaea, and Archaea are more similar to Eukarya in some ways than they are to Bacteria. In fact, some suggest that Eukarya emerged from the fusion of members of both Archaea and Bacteria