The Blarney stone at Blarney castle in Ireland. A beautiful castle with a gorgeous garden and a legend that states that all whom kiss the Blarney stone will be given the gift of the gab. A must see on a visit of Ireland. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. For other uses, see Blarney (disambiguation) . Blarney (Irish: an Bhlarna, meaning the little field) is a town and townland in County Cork, Ireland. It lies 8 km (5.0 mi) north-west of Cork and is famed as the site of Blarney Castle, home of the legendary Blarney Stone
By kissing the Blarney Stone at Blarney Castle, it is claimed that one can receive the Gift of the Gab (eloquence, or skill at flattery or persuasion). Blarney (Irish: an Bhlarna, meaning the little field) is a town and townland in County Cork, Ireland.
The BLARNEY stone is in Blarney castle in the town of Blarney about 7 miles from the city of Cork in the Irish Republic. The stone is believed to be half of the Stone of Scone which originally belonged to Scotland. Scottish Kings were crowned over the stone, because it was believed to have special powers. The stone was given to Cormac McCarthy by Robert the Bruce in 1314 in return for his support in the Battle of Bannockburn.
The stone was set into a tower of the castle in 1446. The castle is a popular tourist site in Ireland, attracting visitors from all over the world to kiss the stone and tour the castle and its gardens. The word blarney has come to mean clever, flattering, or coaxing talk. The Blarney Stone. The Blarney Stone (Irish: Cloch na Blarnan) is a block of Carboniferous limestone built into the battlements of Blarney Castle, Blarney, about 8 kilometres (5 mi) from Cork, Ireland.
the home of the Blarney Stone. Built nearly six hundred years ago by one of Ireland's greatest chieftans, Cormac MacCarthy, and has been attracting attention ever since. Over the last few hundred years, millions have flocked to Blarney making it a world landmark and one of Ireland's greatest treasures. Now that might have something to do with the Blarney Stone, the legendary Stone of Eloquence, found at the top of our tower. Kiss it and you'll never again be lost for words.
The Stone of Eloquence. For over 200 years, world statesmen, literary giants, and legends of the silver screen have joined the millions of pilgrims climbing the steps to kiss the Blarney Stone and gain the gift of eloquence. Its powers are unquestioned but its story still creates debate. The prize is a real one as once kissed the stone bestows the gift of eloquence. Some say it was Jacob’s Pillow, brought to Ireland by the prophet Jeremiah. Here it became the Lia Fail or ‘Fatal Stone’, used as an oracular throne of Irish kings – a kind of Harry Potter-like ‘sorting hat’ for kings.
In 1446 the Blarney sttone was set into a tower of the castle. The castle is a popular tourist site in Ireland, attracting visitors from all over the world to kiss the Stone and tour the castle and the gardens. Shop for Irish Gifts from Irish Blesings! 
Kissing Ireland’s Blarney Stone, a tradition that’s been around for several centuries, is said to give a person the gift of eloquence and persuasiveness. The iconic stone is set in a wall of Blarney Castle, constructed in 1446 by Dermot McCarthy, king of Munster, on the site of a demolished 13th century castle. Various legends surround the Blarney Stone’s origins.