For many decades it's been widely accepted that alcoholism (or addiction) is a disease. The disease concept is taught in addiction training programs and told to patients in treatment programs. It is unquestioned by public figures and the media.
So as it is with addiction and alcoholism,if you have the disease of addiction and alcoholism and you do not do the necessary things to keep it at bay, you have what they call a relapse. So from a medical standpoint using cancer and diabetes is actually a good analogy and can be proven below.
As alcoholism is an addiction, it is considered a disease of the brain. The brain has been physically altered by extended exposure to alcohol, causing it to function differently and therefore creating addictive behavior.
Alcoholism is an Addiction Not a Disease. I'm what is considered an alcoholic. In three days I will have one year of sobriety, without the help of AA or any other support method. All I have to …. No Theory Has Backed Alcoholism as an Illness or a Disease, So it's Just an Excuse.
If it is easier for an alcoholic to label their alcoholism a disease and to seek treatment on this basis because having a disease is less stigmatized; then let's say its a disease and focus on treatment not only for the alcoholic but also for the alcoholic's friends and loved ones.
In 1956, the American Medical Association (AMA) determined alcoholism to be a disease because it met all 5 AMA criteria necessary to be such: PATTERN OF SYMPTOMS, CHRONIC, PROGRESSIVE, SUBJECT TO RELAPSE, and TREATABLE. The disease of alcoholism can also be FATAL.
I have nothing against calling alcoholism or drug use a disease. Shame and guilt never got anyone sober. But I prefer the term addiction - maybe it’s deadly, but you did it to yourself. You didn’t catch it by kissing the bartender.
Alcohol Use Disorder. Problem drinking that becomes severe is given the medical diagnosis of “alcohol use disorder” or AUD. Approximately 7.2 percent or 17 million adults in the United States ages 18 and older had an AUD in 2012. This includes 11.2 million men and 5.7 million women.