The seven continents are: North America, South America, Europe, Asia, Africa, Australia/Oceania, and Antarctica. The United States is located on the continent of North America. Oceans make up most of the world's surface area. Asia is the largest of the continents. Asia is located east of Europe, so it shares its western border with Europe. To the east of Asia, lies the Pacific Ocean, which also separates Asia from North America. South of Asia, lies the Indian Ocean. The Indian Ocean separates Asia from another continent.
The continent is Australia, which is the world's smallest continent. It is also an island continent, as it is completely surrounded by water. Australia is also counted in the geographical regions of Oceania and Australasia with islands such as New Zealand and New Guinea, and other islands of the South Pacific. Australia is the world's smallest continent (not the largest island) and it is a country. There are no other countries on the continent of Australia. It is the only cou … ntry/continent in the world that is a continent, and a country at the same time.
New Zealand is not part of the continent of Australia, but of the separate, submerged continent of Zealandia. New Zealand and Australia are both part of the wider regions known as Australasia and Oceania. 
Australia is in the continent of Australia. It is both a continent  and a country.    Note: contrary to erroneous opinion, it is not in the continent  of either Aus … tralasia or Oceania. Neither of these is a  geographical continent, but rather, they are both political  regions. Australia is the world's smallest continent (not the largest island) and it is a country. There are no other countries on the continent of Australia. It is the only cou … ntry/continent in the world that is a continent, and a country at the same time.
Africa, the Americas, Antarctica, Asia, Australia together with Oceania, and Europe are considered to be Continents. The term continent is used to differentiate between the various large areas of the earth into which all the land surface of Earth is divided. These six continents are Africa, America, Antarctica, Asia, Australia/Oceania, and Europe. 7 continents. By most standards, there are a maximum of seven continents-Africa, Antarctica, Asia, Australia/Oceania, Europe, North America, and South America.
Australia is both an island and a continent so it is not part of any other continent. Australasia is just a general term for that area of the Pacific. Papua New Guinea is not part of Australia. Tasmania is one of the states like Victoria, New South Wales, Queensland and Western Australia. Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: (m) Australia (also called Australia-New Guinea, Sahul, Meganesia, Greater Australia or Australinea) is a continent comprising (in order of size) the Australian mainland, New Guinea, Tasmania, and intervening islands, all of which sit on the same continental shelf.
Australia is the only country that comprises a single continent. The definition of Oceania is a little elastic, sometimes including Australia and but generally is divided into three regions called Micronesia, Melanesia and Polynesia (New Zealand is in Polynesia). Report Abuse. Australia is the only continent that is also a country. It is not an Island due to its size. Oceania is an area in the southpacific which is comprised of many islands and countries which includes the continent/country of Australia.
Geography. Australasia, also called Oceania or Australasia/Oceania, is the World's smallest continent - 8,112,000 km covering approximately 5.3% of the Earth's land and 1.5% of the Earth's surface. It is situated partly in the Pacific ocean, bordered by the Indian Ocean to the west and the Southern ocean to the south. Australasia/Oceania
Yes. Australia is the world's smallest continent (not the largest island) and it is a country. There are no other countries on the continent of Australia. It is the only cou … ntry/continent in the world that is a continent, and a country at the same time.