Saute sauté the plantains until. Browned add the plantains to the skillet and fry for 2 minutes or until-golden brown on the. Bottom flip with a spatula And saute sauté the other side for an additional 1 or. 2 minutes 1 Cut the plantains into 1/4-inch (6.35-mm) slices if you plan on frying them and serving them without additional seasonings or sweeteners. 2  For a more elegant presentation, split the plantains in half lengthwise, using a knife to divide them from top to bottom.
Put the green plantains in a large pot and cover them with water. Add about 1 cup of milk to the water, along with a dash of salt, black pepper or any other spices you’d like to include. Boil for about 30 minutes. Then peel, slice and enjoy! 
Rinse the plantains and cut off both ends of the fruit to expose their flesh. Cut the lengths in half horizontally. Make a small cut in each half’s peel -- this makes it easier to remove the peel after boiling. Boil the plantains for 15 minutes, or until their peels begin pulling away from the flesh.
Peel and slice the plantains and arrange them in the pan. Bake them at 450 degrees Fahrenheit for 15 minutes, or until they turn golden. Let them cool in the pan for about five minutes. If you layer the plantain slices, you create a casserole-type side dish, which might require up to 25 minutes to bake. Cut the lengths in half horizontally. Make a small cut in each half’s peel -- this makes it easier to remove the peel after boiling. Boil the plantains for 15 minutes, or until their peels begin pulling away from the flesh.
Step 5. Boil the plantains until they become tender, which typically requires about 15 to 20 minutes of cooking time. Ripe plantains require less time than unripened pieces. Test them with a fork to judge tenderness
In fact, the flavor of a plantain is closer to that of a potato than the usual sweetness of a banana. You can prepare plantains in a variety of ways, including as a side dish or the main part of a meal. Boil the plantains until they become tender, which typically requires about 15 to 20 minutes of cooking time. Ripe plantains require less time than unripened pieces.
1 Cut the ends off of the plantains and peel. 2  Cut each plantain on the diagonal into 1/2 inch slices. 3  Arrange in single layer and coat tops with cooking spray. 4  Bake, turning occasionally, for 10-15 minutes, until plantains are golden brown and very tender. 
The plantains is a relative to the common banana. It can be a healthful dietary staple with just 232 calories, 62 carbohydrates and less than 1 gram of fat in a 1-cup serving of mashed plantains. Cut the lengths in half horizontally. Make a small cut in each half’s peel -- this makes it easier to remove the peel after boiling. Boil the plantains for 15 minutes, or until their peels begin pulling away from the flesh.
Step 1. Choose ripe or ripened plantains. Unripened plantains are green, while the ripened fruit are nearly black. You can boil ripe or ripened plantains or prepare a combination of both types. Boil the plantains until they become tender, which typically requires about 15 to 20 minutes of cooking time. Ripe plantains require less time than unripened pieces.
3. Preheat stove over medium heat. Add water to pot (enough to fill pot halfway), add salt, let boil over medium heat. 4. Cut/slice plantain into 1 inch rounds (thinner or thicker, up to you). 5. Add cut/sliced plantains to boiling water. 6. Let boil over medium heat for 20-25 minutes (less if your plantain is really ripe and more if it’s not very ripe). *When it’s about done, you’ll notice the plantain will swell and rise a bit outside the peel*. 7. Turn heat off, set pot aside. 