Blue-green bacteria or cyanobacteria are single-celled organisms that naturally exist in fresh or salt waters. They use sunlight to make their food. When there are a lot of nutrients available in the water, the bacteria can grow rapidly or “bloom” to form a visible film or scum on the surface of the water. Cyanobacterial blooms are often green or blue-green in color although they can sometimes be red or brown.
More is not better!4. Disperse the bacterial cells in the water drop and spread them over a circular area in the center of theslide.5. Allow the slide to dry.6. Holding the slide with a clothes pin or slide holder, pass the slide slowly through the flame of abunsen burner 3-4 time to fix the bacteria to the slide. Gently place a few drops of crystal violet stain on the center of the slide where you spread the. bacteria. 3. Leave the stain on the slide for 30-60 seconds. 4. Briefly wash the slide with water to remove the stain.
This bacteria is found in human and animal waters and if your water is tested and found to contain traces of this bacteria, you are exposed to the dangers of water borne diseases. In addition, you will notice that iron bacteria form a recognizable reddish-brown slime on the inside of pipes and fixtures. It helps in killing off the bacteria from water, as well as disease-causing organisms and giardia cysts. Using ultraviolet filters. Such filters are effective in removing bacteria from your water. However, it does not kill
Bacteria in drinking water is one of the most harmful contaminants that you can encounter and therefore, it is important that you take adequate measures to eliminate the risk of bacteria infection by purifying drinking water as well as possible. It helps in killing off the bacteria from water, as well as disease-causing organisms and giardia cysts. Using ultraviolet filters. Such filters are effective in removing bacteria from your water. However, it does not kill
The name coliform is given to a whole group of bacteria which can occur in water and indicate potential health problems. They are divided into two groups: TOTAL coliform (TC), which are all of the coliform bacteria, and FECAL coliforms (FC), which are a portion of the TC. Since the count is dominated by the bacteria which can occur in the intestine, it is used as a more broad spectrum test for fecal pollution in a water system. Frequently, these bacteria like to grow in muds, septic wastes and organic rich wastes which can distort the numbers and findings.
Total coliform are a broad category of bacteria, most of which pose no threat to humans. Some come from fecal matter; others naturally occur in soils, vegetation, insects, etc. The presence of coliform bacteria in well water can be a harbinger of worsening water quality. In some cases, more specific tests for fecal contamination, such as E. coli, may be used. Common sources of nitrate to well water are fertilizers, septic systems, animal manure, and leaking sewer lines. 
Nostoc is a cyanobacteria that forms large spherical colonies. They are common and can just be seen with the naked eye. Most bacteria are only visible with the strongest lenses of the microscope. An easy way to collect them (and also many small protists) is by placing a cover slip on the surface of pond water. After a night whole colonies of bacteria will grow on the underside of the cover slip. 
When Iron Bacteria “feed” on iron in water, the dissolved “ferrous iron” reacts with oxygen in the air to form rust-colored iron oxides (ferric iron). Once the cells begin to decay, they release a reddish or brownish slime material. If you see slimy or clumpy deposits, they are likely caused by Iron Bacteria. Iron Bacteria Smell. Iron Bacteria in well water is safe to drink. But you may not want to drink it. There are a number of foul odors that result from these nuisance bugs. Common odors associated with Iron Bacteria include: 1  Rotten egg smell. 2  Swampy odor. 3  Sewage-like odor.
Bacteria are single-celled organisms that can only be seen with the aid of a very powerful microscope. Bacteria can be found everywhere-in air, water, and soil, even in and on your own body. They can benefit us by recycling wastes, helping nitrogen-fixing plants to grow, and by making certain types of food. While these bacteria do not directly cause disease, high quantities of fecal coliform bacteria suggest the presence of disease causing agents. The presence of fecal contamination is an indicator that a potential health risk exists for individuals exposed to this water.