Matthias Schleiden Matthias Schleiden discovered that plants are made up of cells using a microscope. This supports the theory that all living things are composed of cells. Matthias also worked with Theodor Schwann in the year 1839 to compose two of the cell theory principals. Like Newton, the cell theory would not have been developed without the invention of the microscope. In order for Matthias Schleiden, Theodor Schwann, and Rudolf Virchow to create the cell theory, they needed the microscopes that Hans and Zacharias Jansen had invented prior to their discoveries.
The development of the microscope allowed the invention of the cell theory to be possible. I do not believe that our knowledge of cells would have been developed without the invention of the microscope. Like Newton, the cell theory would not have been developed without the invention of the microscope. In order for Matthias Schleiden, Theodor Schwann, and Rudolf Virchow to create the cell theory, they needed the microscopes that Hans and Zacharias Jansen had invented prior to their discoveries.
Early Observations. The invention of the microscope allowed the first view of cells. English physicist and microscopist Robert Hooke (1635–1702) first described cells in 1665. He made thin slices of cork and likened the boxy partitions he observed to the cells (small rooms) in a monastery. The first unequivocal description of the cell nucleus was made by a Czech, Franz Bauer, in 1802 and was given its name in 1831 by Robert Brown (1773–1858) of Scotland, who is best remembered for discovering the random Brownian motion of molecules.
Matthias Schleiden helped to reject the theory of spontaneous generation by providing evidence of plants and how their organisms grew. Theodor Schwann Theodor Schwann discovered that plants are made up of cells using a microscope, which also supports the cell theory. Like Newton, the cell theory would not have been developed without the invention of the microscope. In order for Matthias Schleiden, Theodor Schwann, and Rudolf Virchow to create the cell theory, they needed the microscopes that Hans and Zacharias Jansen had invented prior to their discoveries.
Cells were too small to be seen. But with the invention of the microscope, an entirely new world was discovered, where very large objects like humans are in fact made up of billions of tiny individual pieces called cells. 
Robert Hooke discovered cells. He took microscopy as a hobby and used to view various specimen under his microscope. Once, he made a thin slice of cork and observed it under t … he microscope. Since corks are made from the oak trees, they were made up of cells. 
Before that time cells escaped notice because of their small size. With the invention of the microscope and its subsequent improvement, cells became visible and many new discoveries were made about them. Even today the study of cells reveals more detail, and its secrets, which are in fact the secrets of life itself, are revealed with ever increasing clarity. 
By: Annie Joyce Cell Theory and the Discovery of the Microscope Cell Theory The theory that all living things are composed of cells. Hans Jansen Hans Jansen developed the first compound microscope along with Zacharias Jansen that allowed others magnify cells and other specimens even more. Like Newton, the cell theory would not have been developed without the invention of the microscope. In order for Matthias Schleiden, Theodor Schwann, and Rudolf Virchow to create the cell theory, they needed the microscopes that Hans and Zacharias Jansen had invented prior to their discoveries.
Cell Theory. The discovery of the cell was made possible by the invention of the microscope, which was made possible by improved lens-grinding techniques. Antoni van Leeuwenhoek (1632-1723), a Dutch tradesman, learned to grind lenses and assemble them into simple microscopes. Inspired by Hooke's work, Leeuwenhoek began making microscopic examinations of his own. In 1678, he reported to the Royal Society that he had discovered little animals -- bacteria and protozoa -- in various samples. The society asked Hooke to confirm Leeuwenhoek's findings, and he did.
With continual improvements made to microscopes over time, magnification technology advanced enough to discover cells in the 17th century. This discovery is largely attributed to Robert Hooke, and began the scientific study of cells, also known as cell biology. Over a century later, many debates about cells began amongst scientists. Most of these debates involved the nature of cellular regeneration, and the idea of cells as a fundamental unit of life. Cell theory was eventually formulated in 1838. 1 All known living things are made up of one or more cells. 2  All living cells arise from pre-existing cells by division. 3  The cell is the fundamental unit of structure and function in all living organisms. 4  The activity of an organism depends on the total activity of independent cells.