Best Answer: Benzene is a molecule (C6 H6) that has six carbons and six hydrogens in a conjugated system (alternating double bonds). The conjugated double bonds make Benzene aromatic. Aromatic describes conjugated ring systems (rings that feature a double bond for every other Carbon-Carbon bond such as seen with Benzene). However, aromatic rings can feature more than 6 carbons. Benzene is an example of an aromatic compound. Phenyl is usually used in the term Phenyl group. You can think of a phenyl group as what you call Benzene when it is a functional group for a larger molecule (or a substituent). One of benzene's hydrogens is replaced by the attachment of a more complex molecule. Source(s): One year college organic chemistry.
However, they have so many different chemical and physical properties. Benzene. Benzene only has carbon and hydrogen atoms arranged to give a planar structure. It has the molecular formula of C 6 H 6. Its structure and some of the properties are as follows. Benzene structure was found by Kekule in 1872. Because of the aromaticity, it is different from aliphatic compounds. 
An aromatic hydrocarbon or arene (or sometimes aryl hydrocarbon) is a hydrocarbon with sigma bonds and delocalized pi electrons between carbon atoms forming rings. Aromatic hydrocarbons can be monocyclic (MAH) or polycyclic (PAH). Some non-benzene-based compounds called heteroarenes, which follow Hueckel'hückel s (rule for monocyclic: rings when the number of its-π electrons equals+4n, 2 where=n,0,1,2.......), 3 are also called aromatic. compounds
The configuration of six carbon atoms in aromatic compounds is known as a benzene ring, after the simplest possible such hydrocarbon, benzene. Aromatic hydrocarbons can be monocyclic (MAH) or polycyclic (PAH). Some non-benzene-based compounds called heteroarenes, which follow Hueckel'hückel s (rule for monocyclic: rings when the number of its-π electrons equals+4n, 2 where=n,0,1,2.......), 3 are also called aromatic. compounds
Thnaks :). Benzene and phenyl seems look the same because they are both aromatic and all aromatic compounds are based on benzene C6H6. Phenyl or phenyl functional group is a hydrocarbon derived from benzene by removing 1 H, making it a C6H5 then attaching it to something else. Phenyl is a group. Phenyl or phenyl functional group is a hydrocarbon derived from benzene by removing 1 H, making it a C6H5 then attaching it to something else.-Phenyl is a group. Typically a subsituent if you are naming organic compounds.
Because of the aromaticity, they are different from other aliphatic compounds; thus, it is a separate field of study in organic chemistry. Though cyclohexane has a similar shape to benzene, it is not aromatic. Cyclohexane is a saturated alkane, which has different properties than benzene. Benzene. Benzene only has carbon and hydrogen atoms arranged to give a planar structure. It has the molecular formula of C 6 H 6. Though it has a similar number of carbons like benzene, cyclohexane is saturated. So there aren’t any double bonds between carbons like in benzene. It is a colorless liquid with a mild sweet odor. This can be produce by the reaction between benzene and hydrogen.
If it were to exist, cyclohexatriene would be a six-membered non-aromatic hydrocarbon with alternating double (short) and single (long) bonds (point group D3h) while benzene is a six-membered aromatic hydrocarbon with equivalent bonds (point group D6h). 
Benzene and phenyl seems look the same because they are both aromatic and all aromatic compounds are based on benzene C6H6. Phenyl or phenyl functional group is a hydrocarbon derived from benzene by removing 1 H, making it a C6H5 then attaching it to something else.-Phenyl is a group. Typically a subsituent if you are naming organic compounds. But yes, youre thinking is correct......
I can't seem to find what the difference between these two is. In my text book, it says that 'arenes are aromatic hydrocarbons containing one or more benzene rings' which to me suggests that arenes are a subgroup of aromatic hydrocarbons and aromatic hydrocarbons need not contain one or more benzene rings. 
Benzene is a natural constituent of crude oil, and is one of the most elementary petrochemicals. Benzene is an aromatic hydrocarbon and the second [ n ]- annulene ([6]-annulene), a cyclic hydrocarbon with a continuous pi bond. It is sometimes abbreviated Ph –H. Benzene is a colorless and highly flammable liquid with a sweet smell. Benzene is an important organic chemical compound with the chemical formula C 6 H 6. Its molecule is composed of 6 carbon atoms joined in a ring, with 1 hydrogen atom attached to each carbon atom.