For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Warehouse Worker in the United States is $27,598 so 50% of the people who perform the job of Warehouse Worker in the United States are expected to make less than $27,598. The annual salary for someone with the job title Warehouse Worker may vary depending on a number of factors including industry, company size, location, years of experience and level of education.
The average hourly pay for all forklift drivers is around $15 per hour, but will vary by experience and location. Skill level is the biggest differentiator in pay. The longer you've been on the job, the closer you'll get to that $20 per hour mark. Career paths for forklift drivers. To start from scratch (if you've never been behind the wheel of a forklift) you'll have to get some experience in a warehouse associate or material moving position before being promoted to a better paying and more highly skilled job.
Again, this depends on where you work. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) warehouse associates in 2010 earned a median income of $10.85 per hour or $22,560. While schedulers in 2010 earned $34.04 an hour, or $70,800 annually. Inventory managers can expect wages somewhere between those numbers. Inventory managers are in charge of inventory in a warehouse or similar space. Inventory managers lead a team of inventory or warehouse workers to receive and record new stock as it comes in, and move stock onto trucks or store shelves as needed.
A common career progression for a Warehouse Worker is to become a Warehouse Manager or a Warehouse Supervisor. Compared to Warehouse Workers, the first group earns $16K more on average, and the second group earns $15K more. With a pay rate for Warehouse Workers that is 5 percent greater than the national average, Houston offers a comfortable salary for those in this profession.
Pay by Experience Level for Warehouse Worker. Median of all compensation (including tips, bonus, and overtime) by years of experience. Experience does not seem to be a strong driver of pay increase in this role. Respondents with less than five years' experience take home $25K on average. With a pay rate for Warehouse Workers that is 5 percent greater than the national average, Houston offers a comfortable salary for those in this profession.
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Warehouse Supervisor in the United States is $56,417 so 50% of the people who perform the job of Warehouse Supervisor in the United States are expected to make less than $56,417. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. Our team of Certified Compensation Professionals has analyzed survey data collected from thousands of HR departments at companies of all sizes and industries to present this range of annual salaries for people with the job title Warehouse Supervisor in the United States.
Pay Difference by Location. With a pay rate for Warehouse Workers that is 5 percent greater than the national average, Houston offers a comfortable salary for those in this profession. Warehouse Workers will also find cushy salaries in Charlotte (+4 percent) and Atlanta (+1 percent)
Americold wins bid to build cold-storage warehouse on Portland waterfront. The global company will also run the facility, which is key to helping the port compete with others in the East, and hopes to complete it by 2017. By Tom Bell Staff Writer. [email protected] | @TomBellPortland | 207-791-6369. The warehouse’s waterfront location means its customers will have the choice to ship products via truck, train or container ship, he said. It also means the port will have the same infrastructure – although on a smaller scale – as the East Coast’s major ports, he said.
Warehouse Workers in the United States pull down an average of $11.84 per hour. Cash earnings for Warehouse Workers — including $1K in bonuses and $5K in profit sharing proceeds near the top of the pay scale — generally stretch from $19K to $39K depending on individual performance. With a pay rate for Warehouse Workers that is 5 percent greater than the national average, Houston offers a comfortable salary for those in this profession.