As far as I know, there is no standard for this. I've looked for them. The only standards have to do with the actual closet dimensions that are specified in building codes. A common convention is 12 from the back wall to the center of the rod. People typically put the closet rods in the middle of the closet. Minimum closet depth is 24 so that puts the closet rod at 12 too. Certain types of clothing tend to extend past the edge of the hanger.
A tall-level single rod requires a height of 60 to 65 inches from the floor and is intended for hanging dresses, long coats and the clothes of tall people. A height of 65 inches is recommended to keep longer clothes off the floor. Medium height single rods should be hung at about 45 inches from the floor. This level is meant for hanging men's and women's suits, women's blouses and skirts and men's pants and shirts. This is also a good height for the clothes of 6 to 12 year olds. Double Rod. Double rods are generally used on the men's side of the closet. The upper rod is hung at a level of about 80 inches with the lower rod at a 39-inch height. This setup allows room for most types of clothing --- shirts and blouses, jackets and pants folded over a hanger, for instance.
Introduction. By the Numbers Standard width for reach-in closet: 72 to 96 inches. Minimum depth: 24 inches (so hanging clothes clear the back wall). Minimum height to hold double hanging rods: 84 inches. (Mount the top rod at 81 3/4 inches, the lower at 40 1/2 inches.). Shelves for women's shoes should be spaced 6 to 7 inches apart; each pair needs at least 7 inches of shelf space.
I go 66 inches to the centerline of the closet rod for a single rod and 68 to the shelf regardless of the ceiling height. I've never had to deal with a double closet rod so I don't have an answer for that. 48 max to centerline of closet rod for ADA requirements. From contributor P: Pros supply standard closet pole dimensions for when there's no stated customer preference. December 2, 2006.
Closet Pole Heights Pros supply standard closet pole dimensions for when there's no stated customer preference. December 2, 2006.
The standard size of a shower curtain is 70 inches wide by 72 inches high. Assume that the shower curtain will hang approximately 1-1/2 inches below the center of the rod and … that you would like the curtain to hang 3 inches above the floor. Then the rod should be mounted with its center at 76-1/2 inches above the floor. There is no standard height of a curtain rod. The height will  depend on the room they are used in. The rod should be placed four  inches above the window frame.
Confidence votes 655. In a standard 22-24 deep closet its 12 from back and 65-68 from the floor. For a double closet rod, top rod 75-80 bottom rod 36-40 from floor. There is no standard height of a curtain rod. The height will  depend on the room they are used in. The rod should be placed four  inches above the window frame.
Shelf Clearance. Closet rods should be hung 1.5 inches lower than the standard-height shelf, which has the bottom of the shelf at 67.5 inches from the floor. This space allows clearance for hangers. Measurement Standards. The standard height for a closet rod is 66 inches from the floor. At this height, long items such as dresses and coats can be hung without touching the floor. There are no standards in terms of length since closet size varie
This feature is not available right now. Please try again later. Published on Sep 27, 2013. In a closet that has double closet rods, the typical heights of the rods are between 38-40 inches to center from the floor on the lower rod, and 76-80 inches to center fromm the floor on the upper closet rod. A high closet rod is usually around 70 to center from the floor