The word homosexual is a Greek and Latin hybrid, with the first element derived from Greek ὁμός homos, same (not related to the Latin homo, man, as in Homo sapiens), thus connoting sexual acts and affections between members of the same sex, including lesbianism. Along with bisexuality and heterosexuality, homosexuality is one of the three main categories of sexual orientation within the heterosexual–homosexual continuum. There is no consensus among scientists about why a person develops a particular sexual orientation.
In helping people overcome homosexuality, we've found that many are in confusion about what homosexuality actually is. There is no agreement among either the scientific community, religious groups or homosexual people themselves as to the definition of homosexuality. Identity. Some people enter into homosexuality through identity. These are people who may not have experienced sexual attraction for the same sex or have had any homosexual encounters. However, from an early age, they have felt they were different from other people.
Homoeroticism is sexual attraction between members of the same sex, either male–male or female–female. The concept differs from the concept of homosexuality: it refers specifically to the desire itself, which can be temporary, whereas homosexuality implies a more permanent state of identity or sexual orientation. More explicit sexual imagery occurring in the Mannerist and Tenebrist styles of the 16th and 17th centuries, especially in artists such as Agnolo Bronzino, Carlo Saraceni and Caravaggio, whose works were sometimes severely criticized by the Catholic Church.
The sun shines even when it is cloudy. (Albanian proverb). Every person is observant to the flaws of others and blind to his own flaws. (Arabic proverb). 
homoerotic. adj. Homosexual love or desire, or something that arouses such loves or desires, not necessarily homosexual in itself, but perhaps just hinting at it. The relationship between Frodo Baggins and Samwise Gamgee in The Lord of the Rings Trilogy was somewhat homoerotic. Most literal meaning -- tending to engage or arouse sexual interest, or imply an erotic connection, by one man for another. 2. Extended meaning, sometimes misused (see Example 2 below): a coded type of homosexual reference invisible to heterosexuals.
Erotic attraction or activity, including sexual congress, between people of the same sex, especially after puberty. Synonym(s): homoerotism, homoeroticism. /ho·mo·erot·i·cism/ (ho″mo-ĕ-rot´ĭ-sizm) sexual feeling directed toward a member of the same sex.homoerot´ic. love sonnets, were in dialogue with some of Shakespeare's (1564-1616) own. sonnets to his Fair Youth; that Barnfield was in fact the Rival Poet of Shakespeare's sonnets; and that Stanley was the beloved male pastoral addressee of both poets.
Noun. 1. homoeroticism-a sexual attraction to (or sexual relations with) persons of the same sex. gayness, homosexualism, homosexuality, queerness. sex, sex activity, sexual activity, sexual practice-activities associated with sexual intercourse; they had sex in the back seat. 
It is a much older concept than the 19th century idea of homosexuality, and is depicted or manifested throughout the history of the visual arts and literature. It can also be found in performative forms; from theatre to the theatricality of uniformed movements (e.g., the Wandervogel and Gemeinschaft der Eigenen). More explicit sexual imagery occurring in the Mannerist and Tenebrist styles of the 16th and 17th centuries, especially in artists such as Agnolo Bronzino, Carlo Saraceni and Caravaggio, whose works were sometimes severely criticized by the Catholic Church.
In the female-female tradition, there are poets such as Sappho,  Michael Field , and Maureen Duffy. Emily Dickinson addressed a number of poems and letters with homoerotic overtones to her sister-in-law Susan Huntington Gilbert. More explicit sexual imagery occurring in the Mannerist and Tenebrist styles of the 16th and 17th centuries, especially in artists such as Agnolo Bronzino, Carlo Saraceni and Caravaggio, whose works were sometimes severely criticized by the Catholic Church.
As a sexual orientation, homosexuality is an enduring pattern of emotional, romantic, and/or sexual attractions to people of the same sex. It also refers to a person's sense of identity based on those attractions, related behaviors, and membership in a community of others who share those attractions.. Along with bisexuality and heterosexuality, homosexuality is one of the three main categories of sexual orientation within the heterosexual–homosexual continuum. There is no consensus among scientists about why a person develops a particular sexual orientation.