The easiest way to block text messages is to block them entirely, which you can do by calling your cellphone provider's customer support number. It'll actually save you a lot of money and probably improve your use of the English language. If you don't have a smartphone, sometimes you can call your carrier and have them blacklist specific phone numbers. If you keep getting texts from new numbers, ignore them. When you reply to spam text messages they know they're reaching you and will keep trying.
Android phone or tablet. Gmail tries to keep spam out of your inbox, but sometimes messages get through. If you see a spam message in your inbox: 1  Open Gmail. 2  Select the message you'd like to report. 3  In the toolbar above your emails, click the spam button. 4  If you have the message open, you can also report it as spam by using the same button
If your carrier allows you to block all text messages except when it comes from a specific address, you can create an e-mail account that has good spam filtering software and have your phone only receive messages from that specific e-mail address. 1 Select the Block messages from all senders in my block list option. 2  In the text box, enter a phone number, email address or domain (such as Comcast.net) that you want to block. 3  Click the Add button. 4  Click the Save changes button
Save. Unwanted emails come in the form of text messages on your cell phone and they can become annoying quickly. All you have to do is enter your phone number somewhere on the Internet and you could be at risk of receiving tons of emails every day. Instructions. Go to your cell phone company's website and follow the instructions provided to block unwanted text messages (see links in References and Resources). Each company's procedure varies slightly, but you will be able to set your preferences and block any unwanted emails. Decide who you want to block
Version 53. Message Blocking is a free T-Mobile service that allows you to block messages to and from your phone, to help you avoid unwanted messages. 1  You can block incoming and outgoing text messages (SMS), picture messages (MMS), Instant Messages (IM), and email. 
Update: a while ago my fiend set it up for me. now i get something like text messages sent to my phone when i get emails from her. and we don't have the yahoo mobile thing set up cause i went to it to put a stop to it and it was trying to make me sign up for it and i don't want it. we are being charged for every... 
If you’re getting emails you don’t want in your inbox, you can block the sender, unsubscribe from the sender, or report the message depending on the type of email. Computer. Android phone or tablet. View and edit senders you’ve blocked. Emails from senders you block will be sent to your spam folder. 1  Open the email. Gmail tries to keep spam out of your inbox, but sometimes messages get through. If you see a spam message in your inbox: 1  Open Gmail. 2  Select the message you'd like to report. 3  In the toolbar above your emails, click the spam button.
If you can/want to/do use Google Voice as your main phone number, you can block calls/texts and report them as spam. Google Voice gives you so many great options and so much control over how you use your phone that you don't get with your cellphone provider that it can really be worth the switch. If you don't have a smartphone, sometimes you can call your carrier and have them blacklist specific phone numbers. If you keep getting texts from new numbers, ignore them. When you reply to spam text messages they know they're reaching you and will keep trying.