The Inca Tern, Larosterna inca, is a seabird in the family Sternidae. It is the only member of the genus Larosterna. This uniquely-plumaged bird breeds on the coasts of Peru and Chile, and is restricted to the Humboldt current. It can be identified by its dark grey body, white moustache on the both sides of its head, and red-orange beak and feet. The Inca Tern breeds on rocky cliffs. Inca terns are found along the Pacific coast of South America, from Isla Lobos de Tierra in Peru to Coquimbo in Chile. The Inca tern has a dark grey body, a red bill and legs, the tips of the wings are white. Typical is the white moustache-like ornamental plume below the eye, present both in males and females.
Weight: 180-210 g. DESCRIPTION : Inca Tern is a superb and unique seabird with very peculiar plumage and head pattern, so different from other seabirds. Due to these differences, the Inca Tern is the only member of the genus “Larosterna”. Adult has dark slaty-grey plumage overall. BEHAVIOUR : Inca Tern is gregarious, living and nesting in huge colonies of several thousands of birds, often close to the gulls’ colonies. They feed on many kinds of marine animals, such as fish (anchovetta) and crustaceans. They also take offal.
The Inca tern (Larosterna inca) is a seabird in the family Sternidae. It is the only member of the genus Larosterna. This uniquely plumaged bird breeds on the coasts of Peru and Chile, and is restricted to the Humboldt Current. It is an erratic, rare visitor to the southwest coast of Ecuador. The Inca tern is a large tern, approximately 40 cm long. Sexes are similar; the adult is mostly slate-grey with white restricted to the facial plumes and the trailing edges of the wings. The large bill and legs are dark red. Immature birds are purple-brown, and gradually develop the facial plumes
The Inca tern is a slender bird with slate-colored plumage. The top of its head and tail are nearly black. It has a very characteristic moustache-like white feather stripe that curls back and downwards from its beak to its neck. Inca terns are found along the Pacific coast of South America, from Isla Lobos de Tierra in Peru to Coquimbo in Chile. The Inca tern has a dark grey body, a red bill and legs, the tips of the wings are white. Typical is the white moustache-like ornamental plume below the eye, present both in males and females.
Iago Sparrow-The Iago Sparrow, is a passerine bird of the sparrow family Passeridae. It is also known as the Cape Verde Sparrow and the Rufous-backed Sparrow. It is endemic to the Cape Verde Islands, in the eastern Atlantic Ocean. Indian Pitta-The Indian Pitta, Pitta brachyura, is a medium-sized passerine bird. It breeds mainly in the sub-Himalayas and winters in southern India and Sri Lanka. These birds are found in thick undergrowth and are often more easily detected by their calls.
This species is listed as Near Threatened because its population has apparently experienced a moderately rapid decline. Taxonomic source(s). del Hoyo, J.; Collar, N. J.; Christie, D. A.; Elliott, A.; Fishpool, L. D. C. 2014. HBW and BirdLife International Illustrated Checklist of the Birds of the World. Identification. 41cm. It can be identified by its dark grey body, white moustache on both sides of its head, and red-orange beak and feet. Juveniles lack moustache and have brown plumage and bare parts. Similar species: Adults unmistakeable, juveniles could be mistaken for noddy sps.
While the beer brand Dos Equis can proudly proclaim that they have The Most Interesting Man in the World, in the bird world, the mustache sporting Inca Tern easily takes that title (just substitute bird for man). 