Share. To scan negatives you need a special scanner. The cheapest way to digitise your negatives is to photograph them with your digital camera. The end result won’t be as good as with a scanner but you could try this method first if you don't already have a scanner that's capable of dealing with negatives. Software supplied with a scanner will turn your negative into a colour image, but if you’re using a digital camera you’ll have to turn your digitised image into a positive one with your photo editing software.
Negative Scanning Services. DigMyPics' fast, economical negative scanning service is the best way to get your old photos into the digital realm. We scan your negatives at high resolution while using Digital ICE dust and scratch removal. 
Greetings George, The best way i have found to do this is with a negative/slide scanner. I use one i purchased from Amazon and it is made by Wolverine who make really great products. the model# is F2D14, it's a14 MP and it converts both 35mm Slides and Negatives to Digital Images. When you turn in your film order a Kodak Disk. I think another way to do this is to make your own images from the pictures. I have seen this done by my sister at Walgreens. Some Departments have scanners that let you scan and crop photos and then save the results on disk or maybe as a disk or possibly a flash drive.
You mail your negatives or prints to them, they scan them to digital files and they make the requisite adjustments so your photos look right. In addition, their prices are pretty reasonable. ScanCafe charges $0.29 per 35mm negative (at a resolution of 3000dpi or a 10 MP file) or photo print (600dpi, 28.8 MP file). In short, you want to convert those old negatives and prints to digital. You’ve got a few options, depending on your needs. Flatbed Photo Scanners. The Epson V330 Scanner; Image courtesy of Epson. A good dedicated flatbed photo scanner runs from $80-900 dollars depending on the quality and extra features you need.
and scanned photos to DVD fast from. our secure, US-based facility. Now, digitizing your photos to DVD is a snap! FotoBridge is the easiest and most convenient way to scan photos and digitally convert large collections of slides, 35mm negatives, Polaroids, and home movies to high quality DVD's. Our secure, US-based facility provides the safest, most advanced photo scanning service available, and we never ship your photos overseas
Whether you're scanning old photos yourself, or sending them off to a scanning service, it's always better to use the negatives if you can find them. While you can get an entry-level negative scanner for around $30 online, this previously-mentioned hack lets you use any flatbed scanner to do the same job for mere pennies. LPT: If you are interested in scanning old family photos, scan negatives instead of the prints to achieve higher quality images | Reddit.
Negative Scanner. The Plustek 120 Scanner; Image Courtesy of Plustek. If you are planning on scanning only negatives and you want to have the highest quality possible, your best option is to buy a quality negative scanner. Negative scanners are built for converting film to digital in the most dedicated way possible. In short, you want to convert those old negatives and prints to digital. You’ve got a few options, depending on your needs. Flatbed Photo Scanners. The Epson V330 Scanner; Image courtesy of Epson. A good dedicated flatbed photo scanner runs from $80-900 dollars depending on the quality and extra features you need.