Escherichia coli (abbreviated as E. coli) are a large and diverse group of bacteria. Although most strains of E. coli are harmless, others can make you sick. Some kinds of E. coli can cause diarrhea, while others cause urinary tract infections, respiratory illness and pneumonia, and other illnesses. Most E. coli are harmless and actually are an important part of a healthy human intestinal tract. However, some E. coli are pathogenic, meaning they can cause illness, either diarrhea or illness outside of the
There are many types of E. coli, and most of them are harmless. But some can cause bloody diarrhea. Some strains of E. coli bacteria (such as a strain called O157:H7) may also cause severe anemia or kidney failure, which can lead to death. Other strains of E. coli can cause urinary tract infections or other infections. You get an E. coli infection by coming into contact with the feces, or stool, of humans or animals. Any food that has been in contact with raw meat can also become infected. Other foods that can be infected with E. coli include: 1  Raw milk or dairy products. 2  Bacteria can spread from a cow's udders to its milk. 3  Check the labels on dairy products to make sure they contain the word pasteurized.. 4  This means the food has been heated to destroy bacteria
Other foods that can be infected with E. coli include: 1  Raw milk or dairy products. 2  Raw fruits and vegetables, such as lettuce, alfalfa sprouts, or unpasteurized apple cider or other unpasteurized juices that have come in contact with infected animal feces. Any food that has been in contact with raw meat can also become infected. Other foods that can be infected with E. coli include: 1  Raw milk or dairy products. 2  Bacteria can spread from a cow's udders to its milk. 3  Check the labels on dairy products to make sure they contain the word pasteurized.. 4  This means the food has been heated to destroy bacteria
E.coli (Escherichia coli). E. coli is the name of a type of bacteria that lives in your intestines. Most types of E. coli are harmless. However, some types can make you sick and cause diarrhea. One type causes travelers' diarrhea. The worst type of E. coli causes bloody diarrhea, and can sometimes cause kidney failure and even death.
Escherichia coli (E. coli) bacteria normally live in the intestines of people and animals. Most E. coli are harmless and actually are an important part of a healthy human intestinal tract. However, some E. coli are pathogenic, meaning they can cause illness, either diarrhea or illness outside of the intestinal tract.
E. coli, or Escherichia coli, is a type of bacterium that is naturally present in the intestines of humans and animals where it does not usually cause any problems. However, there are certain types (or strains) of Escherichia coli that can cause poisoning. Escherichia coli O157:H7 (or E. coli O157:H7) is one such strain, and it has been responsible for several E. coli outbreaks in the US, Canada, Spain, France, Germany, Japan and the UK since 1982.
Escherichia coli, usually called E. coli, refers to a large group of bacteria that is commonly found in the intestines of humans and animals. Most strains of E. coli are harmless; however, some strains, such as E. coli O157: H7, can make people sick, causing severe stomach cramps, diarrhea and vomiting. Serious complications of an E. coli O157:H7 infection can include kidney failure.
Definition. Escherichia coli (E. coli) bacteria normally live in the intestines of healthy people and animals. Most varieties of E. coli are harmless or cause relatively brief diarrhea. But a few particularly nasty strains, such as E. coli O157:H7, can cause severe abdominal cramps, bloody diarrhea and vomiting. You may be exposed to E. coli from contaminated water or food — especially raw vegetables and undercooked ground beef.