Taking iron tablets “can reduce tiredness by 50%” even if you’re not anaemic, the Daily Mail has reported. This is a reasonably accurate, if somewhat optimistic, summary of new research that may help women who feel “tired all the time”. The researchers found that women on iron tablets had a fatigue score that had reduced by 48% on average, while those on placebo pills had a fatigue score that had dropped 29% by the end of the 12 weeks.
Taking iron supplement pills and getting enough iron in your food will correct most cases of iron deficiency anemia. You usually take iron pills 1 to 3 times a day. To get the most benefit from the pills, take them with vitamin C (ascorbic acid) pills or orange juice. Taking iron pills could delay the diagnosis of a serious problem such as colorectal cancer or a bleeding ulcer. If the anemia is not due to iron deficiency, taking iron pills will not relieve the anemia and could cause poisoning (iron toxicity).
It's definitely the iron. Try taking the iron with Vitamin C and/or in the middle of a meal and see if that helps. If you are still exhausted, then stop taking the pills. People's bodies are different and some people might not be able to handle iron as well as others. I know I have thalassemia minor, for example. Yes, too much iron can make you tired. I was slightly low in iron. At first iron gave me tons and tons of energy. But then I tested normal on the blood tests. I didn't take any for a while and seemed to have more energy than before. My ferritin was still a little low on the last test.
Your doctor will probably have you take iron supplement pills and eat foods rich in iron to treat your anemia. Most people begin to feel better after a few days of taking iron pills. But do not stop taking the pills even if you feel better. Do not take iron pills on your own without seeing your doctor first. If you take iron pills without talking with your doctor first, the pills may cause you to have too much iron in your blood, or even iron poisoning. Your low iron level may be caused by a serious problem, such as a bleeding ulcer or colon cancer.
If you suspect you have iron deficiency anemia, do not take iron pills without consulting your doctor. Taking iron pills could delay the diagnosis of a serious problem such as colorectal cancer or a bleeding ulcer. If the anemia is not due to iron deficiency, taking iron pills will not relieve the anemia and could cause poisoning (iron toxicity). It could also cause an iron overload condition called hemochromatosis, especially in people who have a genetic tendency toward storing too much iron in their bodies
For this reason, it is best to take iron supplements at least 2 hours before or 2 hours after taking medications. If you are being treated with any of the following medications, you should not use iron without talking to your health care provider first. 
1 Wait 2 hours after taking iron tablets before taking other medicines. 2  Keep taking the tablets for at least 3 months or until your doctor tells you to stop. 3  You must take them until well after your haemoglobin is normal. 4  If you are pregnant you may be given iron tablets. 
Best Answer: Funny thing about correction of iron deficiency...people tend to feel better very quickly after they start taking iron...even before the anemia, itself, is corrected. I think your response to iron suggests that you are on the right course. Let's see how you feel after the cold passes. Source(s): I am an MD. 
Don't stop taking your iron pills. Anemia can be dangerous. If you are feeling tired it is likely from something else. Just remember don't have dairy and iron medication within 2 hours of each other because calcium and iron bind and you can't absorb either. Yes, too much iron can make you tired. I was slightly low in iron. At first iron gave me tons and tons of energy. But then I tested normal on the blood tests. I didn't take any for a while and seemed to have more energy than before. My ferritin was still a little low on the last test.
Once your haemoglobin levels and red blood cells are normal, your GP will usually recommend you continue taking iron supplements for three months to help build up the iron levels in your body. After this, depending on the cause of your iron deficiency anaemia, you should be able to stop taking the supplements. Your condition will then be monitored every three months, over the course of a year, and again a year later.