Product Description. Moducare is a blend of plant sterols and sterolins that can help promote a balanced immune system.* Plant sterols – phytosterols and their glycosides (also known as phytosterolins) – are fats that are present in fruits, vegetables, and medicinal plants.
Product Information. Moducare is a blend of plant sterols and sterolins that can help promote a balanced immune system. Plant sterols-phytosterols and their glycosides (also known as phytosterolins) - are fats that are present in fruits, vegetables, and medicinal plants.
Moducare® is a patented blend of sterols and sterolins in a clinically proven ratio of 100:1. These important nutrients occur in all plant life. Moducare® helps to bring overall balance to the immune system—enhancing an underactive immune system and modulating an overactive one.
What is Moducare®? Moducare® is a patented blend of plant sterols and sterolins in a clinically proven ratio of 100:1. This formulation has been found to be effective at regulating the immune system -- enhancing an underactive immune system and/or modulating an overactive one.
Moducare ® may assist in restoring the balance of the immune system. Plant sterols and sterolins are essential micronutrients that exist in very small amounts in nuts, seeds, fruit, vegetables and natural oils.
Moducare ® is a daily immune supplement made from a patented blend of natural plant sterols and sterolins. It has been tested and shown through research that it may support an immune system balance.
Moducare is a pine extract that contains sterols, naturally occurring compounds found in all plants. Sterols have been shown to enhance immune function and support the body's inflammation response.
Moducare is a patented blend of plant sterols and sterolins in a clinically proven ratio of 100:1 that works to restore, strengthen and balance your body's immune system. Take Moducare daily and adopt healthy lifestyle habits so you and your family can keep your immune system strong and enjoy vibrant health.
Moducare® is a patented blend of plant sterols and sterolins in a clinically proven ratio of 100:1. This formulation has been found to be effective at regulating the immune system -- enhancing an underactive immune system and/or modulating an overactive one.