You can help save biodiversity. Biodiversity decline and loss of ecosystem services is a major global threat to the future of our planet and our generations. The good news is that there are lots of things you can do to help ease the pressure on this loss of biodiversity. We are not in a hopeless situation.
As years of warfare, drought, and new settlements have taken a toll on the nation’s biodiversity resources, UNEP has partnered with the Government of Afghanistan to assess the status of these precious ecosystems and determine how best to promote their sustainable conservation. 
The Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD), known informally as the Biodiversity Convention, is a multilateral treaty. The Convention has three main goals: 1  conservation of biological diversity (or biodiversity); 2  sustainable use of its components; and. 2010 was the International Year of Biodiversity. The Secretariat of the Convention on Biological Diversity is the focal point for the International Year of Biodiversity. At the 2010 10th Conference of Parties (COP) to the Convention on Biological Diversity in October in Nagoya, Japan, the Nagoya Protocol was adopted.
A new Biodiversity Policy describes USAID’s commitment and approach to conserving species and ecosystems, and our focus on integrating biodiversity with other sectors for improved conservation and development outcomes. Biodiversity loss has accelerated from just a few species going extinct each year to an estimated 1,000 species disappearing annually. The collective actions of seven billion people are degrading the natural resource base and threaten to erode development gains around the world.
Conservation biology is a mission-oriented science that focuses on how to protect and restore biodiversity, or the diversity of life on Earth. Like medical research, conservation biology deals with issues where quick action is critical and the consequences of failure are great. Many of these programs focus on the biodiversity of the local region or globe, and what you can do to help protect and restore it. Many organizations also have educational web sites with information about biodiversity (see Conservation biology links).
UK Conservation. The UK’s natural environment and its biodiversity provides a vital and valuable role in supporting the basic natural services we all depend on, such as food, fresh water and clean air. For example, bees pollinate our crops and the crops in turn provide us with food. Nature conservation in the UK is driven by a wide range of policies, legislation and agreements, all delivered by a range of bodies, from the statutory, voluntary, academic and business sectors, which work together to conserve the environment and its biodiversity.
Species and habitats under threat and/or in decline. To help set priorities, OSPAR’s work on protection and conservation of biodiversity has started from an identification of those species and habitats most in need of protection. The OSPAR List of threatened and/or declining species and habitats was agreed in 2003 and extended in 2008 Table 10.2 and Table 10.3. 1 To protect, conserve and restore species, habitats and ecological processes which have been adversely affected as a result of human activities. 2  To protect, conserve and restore species, habitats and ecological processes which best represent the range of these features within the OSPAR maritime area.
- Pavan Sukhdev, Environmental Economist. Conserving the diversity of life on earth is fundamental to human well being. Once considered a niche issue or special interest, biodiversity conservation is now recognized as critical to achieving equitable and sustainable development. Biodiversity loss has accelerated from just a few species going extinct each year to an estimated 1,000 species disappearing annually. The collective actions of seven billion people are degrading the natural resource base and threaten to erode development gains around the world.
Biodiversity is More than Just Species. Species diversity is only one part of biodiversity. To properly catalogue all the life on Earth, we also have to recognize the genetic diversity that exists within species as well as the diversity of entire habitats and ecosystems. Genetic Biodiversity is the variation in genes that exists within a species. 
Box 10.2 Aims of the OSPAR MPA network. Marine protected areas are areas for which protective, conservation, restorative or precautionary measures have been put in place to protect and conserve species, habitats, ecosystems or ecological processes of the marine environment on a temporary or permanent basis. The OSPAR network of MPAs has the following aims: 1 To protect, conserve and restore species, habitats and ecological processes which have been adversely affected as a result of human activities. 2  To protect, conserve and restore species, habitats and ecological processes which best represent the range of these features within the OSPAR maritime area.