Excess cellular cholesterol is converted to cholesteryl esters by the enzyme acyl-coenzyme A:cholesterol acyltransferase (ACAT) 1 or is removed from a cell by cellular cholesterol efflux at the plasma membrane. A close relationship between the ACAT substrate pool and the cholesterol efflux pool is proposed.
The LCAT enzyme helps transport cholesterol out of the blood and tissues by a process called cholesterol esterification. This process results in a form of cholesterol that is more efficiently carried by molecules called lipoproteins, which transport the cholesterol to the liver.
What is the function of the cholesterol esterification process, and why are there several different enzymatic pathways for creating cholesterol esters? All mammalian cell membranes contain cholesterol. However, most mammalian cells, including those of the arterial wall, cannot degrade
2. The esterification of I-C14-palmitic acid with cholesterol (or palmitic acid with 4-C14-cholesterol) requires the presence of the cofactors co-enzyme A (CoA) and adenosine triphosphate (ATP). 3. A mechanism for this esterification is presented.
By converting cholesterol to cholesteryl esters more cholesterol can be packaged into the interior of lipoproteins. This vastly increases the capacity of lipoproteins, allowing for more efficient cholesterol transport through the blood stream.
The mechanism of cholesterol esterification in plasma incubated at 37° has been further studied. The decrease in free cholesterol during incubation is accompanied by an approximately equimolar decrease in lecithin.
Cholesteryl ester, a dietary lipid, is an ester of cholesterol. The ester bond is formed between the carboxylate group of a fatty acid and the hydroxyl group of cholesterol. Cholesteryl esters have a lower solubility in water due to their increased hydrophobicity. They are hydrolyzed by pancreatic enzymes, cholesterol esterase, to produce cholesterol and free fatty acids.
In the lumen, dietary cholesterol absorbed by enterocytes is esterified by acyl-coenzyme A: cholesterol acyltransferase 2 (ACAT2), which is found in both the intestine and liver (see Figure 2). ACAT1 is found in all tissues.
To more efficiently transport both dietary and synthesized cholesterol, it is converted to cholesteryl esters. Free cholesterol can be taken up by lipoproteins, but is confined to the outer surface of the particle.