Dryland Salinity Management in the Murray-Darling Basin Mr. Andrew Beal, Murray-Darling Basin Commission, ACT Summary There has been growing concern over the rapid and unexpected growth of dryland salinity affected land and water resources in the Murray-Darling Basin. The Commission 11as a two part role in the management of dryland salinity: The provision of a Basin-wide context within which current and future management of dryland salinity is undertaken, particularly with regard to water resources (ground and surface).
The Murray–Darling River Basin. The Murray River and its main tributary, the Darling River, are the two main rivers in the Murray–Darling River Basin. A river catchment is the area of land that surrounds a river and all of its tributaries, from the headwaters to the mouth. The river basin includes all the underwater aquifers and related springs. 1 National Museum of Australia, the Murray-Darling Basin Commission and the Museum of the Riverina, Pass the Salt. 2  Pass the Salt explores places, examines objects and tells people's stories about salinity in the Wagga Wagga region, New South Wales.
Wilson, S. (2003) Determining the full costs of dryland salinity across the Murray-Darling Basin: Final Project Report, Wilson Land Management Services report to the Murray-Darling Basin Commission and National Dryland Salinity Program. dry or only partially filled with water. Causes of urban salinity Urban salinity, like dryland and irrigation salinity occurs where salt in the landscape is mobilised and redistributed closer to the soil surface and/or into waterways.
Western Australia contains the majority of land affected by salinity in Australia, with around 70%. Over 2 million hectares are currently affected, and around 4 million hectares of land are currently listed as high risk, and 50% of divertible water is already considered overly saline. The Eastern Mallee and the Western Mallee of Western Australia are areas that are prone to salinity with little remedial action being undertaken to rectify the problem. Lands surrounding Lake Bryde-East Lake Bryde and Dumbleyung Lake have also been affected.
In the Murray River valley irrigation has caused salinity problems. Land surrounding the town of Werrimull in the northwest of Victoria have been affected by salinity due to land clearing. The Eastern Mallee and the Western Mallee of Western Australia are areas that are prone to salinity with little remedial action being undertaken to rectify the problem. Lands surrounding Lake Bryde-East Lake Bryde and Dumbleyung Lake have also been affected.
Answers. Best Answer: There are a number of stakeholders within the Region who are affected by dryland salinity. These include: − urban householders; − agricultural producers; − Local Governments; − commercial and industrial businesses; − State Government Agencies; and − Water, Gas, & Electricity utilities. 
The Murray-Darling Basin Salinity Audit reports that the threshold of 1500 EC units is currently exceeded in the Macquarie Marshes four per cent of the time. But this is predicted to rise to 23 per cent of the time by 2100, unless changes are made to the way natural resources are managed. Natural environment. There is a natural variation in the ability of plant and animal species and ecosystems to tolerate salinity. The ecosystems most likely to be affected by salinity are rivers and riverbanks, wetlands, and vegetation in lower parts of the landscape.
Historically the areas around Waikerie and Woolpunda in South Australia contribute close to 350 tonnes of salt a day between them. In South Australia the development of salt interception schemes has reduced this figure by more than 85%. That’s over 300 tonnes of salt that is no longer going into the Murray every day. The inception schemes have lowered the average salinity at Morgan by 22 EC units. At that time the whole land mass started to rise out of the sea (about 100 million years ago). Salt water flowed away from the emerging land back into the ocean, and a river was born which would eventually become the present-day Murray (see the beginnings).
The Murray-Darling Basin Commission (MDBC) is responsible for the provision of advice to the Ministerial Council on Basin-wide land, water and environmental management issues and for managing the River-Murray. The Commission 11as a two part role in the management of dryland salinity: The provision of a Basin-wide context within which current and future management of dryland salinity is undertaken, particularly with regard to water resources (ground and surface).