Soi Dog Foundation's Mission Statement. To improve the welfare of dogs and cats in Thailand, resulting in better lives for both the animal and human communities, to end animal cruelty, and to ultimately create a society without homeless animals. The first photo you see is of Tai Chi when he was first brought to the shelter. The second photo was taken a month later with his new, loving owner Ina. Soi Dog Foundation is a not-for-profit, legally registered charitable organization in Thailand, the United States, Australia, the UK, France and Holland.
The World's most comprehensive professionally edited abbreviations and acronyms database. All trademarks/service marks referenced on this site are properties of their respective owners. The Acronym Finder is ©1988-2015, Acronym Finder, All Rights Reserved. 
The World's most comprehensive professionally edited abbreviations and acronyms database. All trademarks/service marks referenced on this site are properties of their respective owners. The Acronym Finder is ©1988-2015, Acronym Finder, All Rights Reserved. 
SOI stands for Single Opt-In, which means that the users only needs to enter his e-mail and that's it-no verification required. Obviously, assuming two offers are identical, the SOI version will always convert better. Quote: DOI stands for Double Opt-In, which means that the user needs to verify his e-mail after he signs up.
About Soi Dog Foundation. The story of Tai Chi, one dog, among literally thousands that people like you have helped tells the story of Soi Dog. Tai Chi was found lying in the gutter, severely malnourished and could not even stand. The first photo you see is of Tai Chi when he was first brought to the shelter. The second photo was taken a month later with his new, loving owner Ina. Soi Dog Foundation is a not-for-profit, legally registered charitable organization in Thailand, the United States, Australia, the UK, France and Holland.
Safety in the workplace is everyone's business. SOI uses A rated carriers and on-site safety managers to create a tailored, comprehensive loss-prevention strategy to minimize risks in your business. There's strength in numbers. By pooling together tens of thousands of employees, SOI is able to provide better benefits at more affordable rates on a wide variety of plans. Access to better benefits improves employee morale and helps reduce the expense and disruption of employee turnover.
Acronym Attic: Searching over 3 million acronyms, abbreviations, and initialisms. All trademarks/service marks referenced on this site are properties of their respective owners. Acronym Attic is ©2005-2008, Acronym Finder, All Rights Reserved. 
SOI is one of the nation’s leading Professional Employer Organizations (PEOs). With clients in all 50 states, including North Carolina, and representing more than $2.5 billion in annual payroll, and having been in business on a national basis since 1995, SOI is one of the largest and most tenured PEOs in the country. There's strength in numbers. By pooling together tens of thousands of employees, SOI is able to provide better benefits at more affordable rates on a wide variety of plans. Access to better benefits improves employee morale and helps reduce the expense and disruption of employee turnover.
There is a good deal of drudgery, of course; but one preserves one's moral freedom, what we call in French one's quant a soi. 