Yes. All Clearblue® Pregnancy Tests are sensitive enough to detect hCG in your urine from the day of your expected period 1. Additionally, you can use Clearblue® Pregnancy Tests up to 5 days before your missed period 2, although the pregnancy hormone levels in your urine may not be high enough to be detected. If you test early and you get a “Not Pregnant” test result, we recommend you test again when your period is due. Tests that allow women to test earlier than 5 days sooner than the missed period can be prone to produce false “Pregnant” results in non–pregnant women. Clearblue does not compromise on accuracy.
The more sensitive the test (the smaller amount of hCG it can detect), the earlier the opportunity to detect pregnancy. That means with a test sensitive to 20 mIU/ml hCG, a home pregnancy test is accurate as early as six to eight days after conception, well before your first missed period. 
You are pregnant but you test negative. Quantitative blood tests and the most sensitive urine tests usually detect hCG shortly after implantation, which can occur anywhere from 6 to 12 days after ovulation and implantation is usually the deciding factor to answer the question how early can pregnancy be detected.
Pregnancy tests range in sensitivity from 10mIU/ml to 40 mlU/ml. The lower the number, the more sensitive the test, and the earlier it can detect pregnancy. If you test too soon in pregnancy, even with a sensitive test, the amount of hCG in your urine may not be high enough to detect. Getting a false negative, when a test that says you're not pregnant and you are, can be stressfu
HCG can be detected in urine or blood after implantation, which occurs on average 9 daye (range 6-12 days) after fertilization. Some home pregnancy tests claim to detect hCG as early as 4 days before the next expected period. Quantitative blood tests and the most sensitive urine tests usually detect hCG shortly after implantation, which can occur anywhere from 6 to 12 days after ovulation and implantation is usually the deciding factor to answer the question how early can pregnancy be detected.
A blood test can also detect hCG. Blood tests are more sensitive than urine tests and can detect pregnancy from about six to eight days after ovulation. However you will not be offered a blood test for pregnancy until after your period is due, and even then only if there is a medical need. The lower the number, the more sensitive the test, and the earlier it can detect pregnancy. If you test too soon in pregnancy, even with a sensitive test, the amount of hCG in your urine may not be high enough to detect.
Pregnancy tests with a sensitivity of 20 mIU/ml are more sensitive than tests with 50 to 100 mIU/ml. Test brands will display how sensitive their tests are using mIU as the standard unit of measure. Test sensitivity equates with early-detection-and the lower the number, the sooner a test can detect pregnancy. The most sensitive pregnancy tests can detect hCG levels at as low as 20 mIU-or at around 8 days following implantation of the egg. Drugstore pregnancy tests generally detect pregnancy at 50 mIU - 100 mIU hCG, though you can find early-detection pregnancy tests on the Internet with sensitivity levels as low as 20 mIU. With all diagnostic products, take care to follow the instructions.
Doctors often order these tests to confirm pregnancy as early as 10 days after a missed period. However, some of these tests can detect hCG much earlier. A quantitative hCG test (beta hCG) measures the exact amount of hCG in your blood. It can find even very low levels of hCG. Blood tests are done at your doctor's office, but are used less often than urine tests. These tests can detect pregnancy earlier than a home pregnancy test, or about six to eight days after ovulation. But with these tests, it takes longer to get the results than with a home pregnancy test. Two types of blood pregnancy tests are available: A qualitative hCG test simply checks to see if hCG is present
hCG measurement. How early can pregnancy be detected depends on finding the hCG hormone, and all tests currently available to test for the presence of a pregnancy look for the presence of the beta subunit of hCG or human chorionic gonadotropin in the blood or urine. Quantitative blood tests and the most sensitive urine tests usually detect hCG shortly after implantation, which can occur anywhere from 6 to 12 days after ovulation and implantation is usually the deciding factor to answer the question how early can pregnancy be detected.