1 Your Base Surface is Moisture-Proof: One popular mode of installation is to put laminate on top of vinyl flooring. 2  This eliminates the need for removing the vinyl floor. 3  Vinyl flooring is not--or, should not--be water-permeable. 4  If it's water-permeable, somebody installed the floor wrong. 1 Underlayment becomes half the price of the flooring (of course, one might say that with these ultra-thin laminates, the need for underlayment is even greater). 2 
The underlayment is the sheet of material that is installed on top of a subfloor in order to act as a base for the laminate sheets or tiles that you are installing. 
I would not recommend for you to put underlayment underneath of your laminate. If you are installing your flooring on a concrete slab subfloor then you will need to lay down a Visqueen vapor barrier underneath of your flooring to act as a vapor barrier. Areone, yes you need at least a 6mil plastic underlayment, also known as Visqueen, underneath your laminate flooring. The padding that is attached to your flooring is not suitable by itself as a moisture barrier.
Laminate flooring requires an underlayment. You get what you pay for when it comes to flooring underlayment. Cheap is not always better. There are several types and price ranges available, and each manufacturer of flooring has a recommendation for the type of underlayment that should be used. The purpose of underlayment is to reduce sound, provide a moisture barrier, aid with subfloor imperfections and slightly cushion the feel of your floor as you walk on it. All of these things must be considered when you purchase your
For that same reason, laminate flooring is not considered a good choice in areas that are subject to high levels of humidity, such as bathrooms, saunas and laundry rooms. Read on to find out what kind of tools and materials you'll need to install laminate flooring. Directions for Installing Laminate Flooring. Laminate flooring is cheaper than wood, doesn’t need to be nailed, sanded, stained or finished, and is quite resistant to scratches, denting, fading and stains. ­iStockphoto /Jeffrey Zavitski.
Reason for Underlayment. The underlayment is installed as a cushion and sound barrier between the sub-floor and laminate flooring. Laminate flooring is installed using a “free-float” method where the flooring is not mounted to the sub-floor. The flooring is actually on top of the sub-floor without the use of nails or fasteners
When your base floor is anything less than perfect (minor gaps and seams), underlayment is needed to help smooth out those areas for the laminate. When you're installing on top of concrete, you'll want the extra padding that underlayment provides to make it softer to walk on. 1 Underlayment becomes half the price of the flooring (of course, one might say that with these ultra-thin laminates, the need for underlayment is even greater). 2  Your Base Surface is Moisture-Proof: One popular mode of installation is to put laminate on top of vinyl flooring.
Designed to look like wood flooring, laminate is cheaper, doesn't need to be nailed, sanded, stained or finished, and is quite resistant to scratches, denting, fading and stains. Available in a slew of colors and styles, some laminate flooring is designed to mimic various wood grains; others look like ceramic tiles. Directions for Installing Laminate Flooring. Laminate flooring is cheaper than wood, doesn’t need to be nailed, sanded, stained or finished, and is quite resistant to scratches, denting, fading and stains. ­iStockphoto /Jeffrey Zavitski.
So as mentioned above, the underlay you should use for a laminate floor will depend on the type of sub-floor – if it’s concrete then you will likely need an underlay with a moisture barrier or will need to install a separate barrier. Firstly, the type of underlay you need will depend on the sub-floor that you’re fitting your new flooring on top of. Usually the sub-floor is either a concrete base or wooden floor base.
When You Do Want Underlayment. I'm not trying to kill off the entire underlayment industry. In fact, underlayment is good and is recommended in a majority of the installations. One reason is because laminate flooring is so flimsy and insubstantial that it needs all the help it can get. 1 Underlayment becomes half the price of the flooring (of course, one might say that with these ultra-thin laminates, the need for underlayment is even greater). 2  Your Base Surface is Moisture-Proof: One popular mode of installation is to put laminate on top of vinyl flooring.