D&O insurance is usually purchased by the company itself, even when it is for the sole benefit of directors and officers. Reasons for doing so are many, but commonly would assist a company in attracting and retaining directors. The insurance is closely related to corporate governance, corporations law, and the fiduciary duty owed to shareholders or other beneficiaries. Under the United States business judgment rule, the directors and officers are granted broad discretion in their business activities.
Such coverage can extend to defence costs arising out of criminal and regulatory investigations/trials as well; in fact, often civil and criminal actions are brought against directors/officers simultaneously. Intentional illegal acts, however, are typically not covered under D&O policies. It has become closely associated with broader management liability insurance, which covers liabilities of the corporation itself as well as the personal liabilities for the directors and officers of the corporation. The insurance is closely related to corporate governance, corporations law, and the fiduciary duty owed to shareholders or other beneficiaries. Under the United States business judgment rule, the directors and officers are granted broad discretion in their business activities.
Anyone who serves as a director or an officer of a for-profit business or nonprofit organization may be at risk of a personal claim as a result of that position. A directors and officers liability policy insures them against personal losses. It can also help reimburse the business or nonprofit for the legal fees or other costs it may incur in defending those individuals against a lawsuit. The policies are generally purchased by the organization to cover a group of individuals rather than by the individuals themselves. Policies can be written to insure against a variety of hazards, but they generally make exclusions for fraud or other criminal activity.
In the context of corporate and commercial law, an officer is a member of a corporation's management team, typically reporting to a director. Officers are not, in most circumstances, eligible for organization into a union. An officer is the agent of the corporation entrusted by it with the exercise of some portion of its corporate powers, and the transaction of the business for which it exists, and the performance of its corporate duties.
A chief executive officer (CEO in American English) or managing director (MD in British English) describes the position of the most senior corporate officer, executive, or administrator in charge of managing a non-profit or for-profit organization. 
A director is the head of an organization, either elected or appointed, who generally has certain powers and duties relating to management or administration. A corporation's board of directors is composed of a group of people who are elected by the shareholders to make important company policy decisions. n. a member of the governing board of a corporation or association elected or re-elected at annual meetings of the shareholders or members. As a group the directors are responsible for the policy making, but not day-to-day operation, which is handled by officers and other managers. In some cases, a director may also be an officer, but need not be a shareholder. Most states require a minimum of three directors on corporate board
Those definitions are legend. Some defer to a definition of officer as including the higher and lower echelons of directors, and all other management-level staff. Others defer to that segment of a corporation 's management staff under directors but above employees. An officer is the agent of the corporation entrusted by it with the exercise of some portion of its corporate powers, and the transaction of the business for which it exists, and the performance of its corporate duties.
Depending on the company, the board of directors and officers can be made up of the same individuals. The board of directors and officers often work closely together, but play very different roles in the corporation. Differences between Directors and Officers. While directors and officers have some similar duties, and in some corporations an individual can hold both positions, there are two significant characteristics officers have that directors do not. They have the authority to legally bind
The board of directors appoints corporate officers. The corporate officers usually consist of a president, one or more vice presidents, the secretary, and a treasurer. In larger enterprises, there may be hundreds of officers. Officers are responsible for the management and day-to-day operations of the corporation. Differences between Directors and Officers. While directors and officers have some similar duties, and in some corporations an individual can hold both positions, there are two significant characteristics officers have that directors do not. They have the authority to legally bind