Definition of PICEA. : a genus of temperate and arctic evergreen trees (family Pinaceae) having acicular leaves that are keeled on both surfaces and borne individually on persistent peg-shaped bases and cones that become pendulous and have reflexed scales — see spruce. New Latin, from Latin, pitch pine, from pic-, pix pitch. This word doesn't usually appear in our free dictionary, but the definition from our premium Unabridged Dictionary is offered here on a limited basis. Note that some information is displayed differently in the Unabridged.
For other uses, see Spruce (disambiguation) . A spruce is a tree of the genus Picea /paɪˈsiːə/ , a genus of about 35 species of coniferous evergreen trees in the Family Pinaceae, found in the northern temperate and boreal (taiga) regions of the earth. They are also used by the larvae of gall adelgids (Adelges species). In the mountains of western Sweden scientists have found a Norway spruce tree, nicknamed Old Tjikko, which by reproducing through layering has reached an age of 9,550 years and is claimed to be the world's oldest known living tree.
Pinaceae -- Pine family. Gilbert H. Fechner. Blue spruce (Picea pungens) is also called Colorado blue spruce, Colorado spruce, silver spruce, and pino real. It is a slow-growing, long-lived tree of medium size that, because of its symmetry and color, is planted extensively as an ornamental. In its northern range (northern Wyoming, Idaho, and Montana), blue spruce is found only in scattered locations under established stands of narrowleaf cottonwood and among scattered ponderosa pine, with Engelmann spruce and white spruce (Picea glauca) associated with the species in the extreme north (64,84).
The noun PICEA PUNGENS has 1 sense: 1. tall spruce with blue-green needles and dense conic crown; older trees become columnar with lower branches sweeping downward. Familiarity information: PICEA PUNGENS used as a noun is very rare. 
Fact Sheet ST-453October 1994 Picea pungens Figure 1. Middle-aged Colorado Spruce. Colorado Spruce 1Edward F. Gilman and Dennis G. Watson 2 INTRODUCTION Colorado Spruce has a horizontal branching habitand grows taller than 75 feet in its native habitat, butis normally seen at 30 to 50 feet in landscapes (Fig.1). 
Origin of PICEA. New Latin, from Latin, pitch pine, from pic-, pix pitch. This word doesn't usually appear in our free dictionary, but the definition from our premium Unabridged Dictionary is offered here on a limited basis. Note that some information is displayed differently in the Unabridged.
Seeds. The white spruce is a large coniferous evergreen tree which grows normally to 15 to 30 metres (49 to 98 ft) tall, but can grow up to 40 m (130 ft) tall with a trunk diameter of up to 1 m (3.3 ft). The bark is thin and scaly, flaking off in small circular plates 5 to 10 centimetres (2.0 to 3.9 in) across. The bark of mature white spruce is scaly or flaky, gray-brown (Brayshaw 1960) or ash-brown (Harlow and Harrar 1950), but silvery when freshly exposed. Resin blisters are normally lacking, but the Porsild spruce Picea glauca var.
39 Species with 604 Trinomials. Picea a genus of about 35 species of coniferous evergreen trees in the family Pinaceae, found in the northern temperate and boreal regions of the earth. Spruces are large trees, from 20–60 metres (66–200 ft) tall when mature, and can be distinguished by their whorled branches and conical form. For the same reason, some (particularly Picea abies and Picea omorika) are also extensively used as Christmas trees. The word “spruce” entered the English language from Old French Pruce, the name of Prussia.
spruce. Any of the evergreen coniferous trees and shrubs of the genus Picea (family Piceaceae), widely found in the Northern Hemisphere. Known side effects of exposure to spruce dusts (e.g., in sawmill workers) include an increased incidence of reactive airways diseases such as asthma. 