How to delete ALL mail messages from iPhone/iPad in one step. GOOD NEWS UPDATE [see below]. Yes, there is a way to delete all your unwanted iPhone/iPad emails from the Mail app in one operation ! No more left-swipe:tap Trash for every individual message. No more Edit: tap the single open circle next to every individual message and finally tapping Trash. And you don’t need to jail break your device. 
When you’re done selecting what you want to get rid of, just tap the trashcan icon in the bottom-right corner of the screen. Confirm by tapping the Delete button. iPhone Moments screen. This works as a way to send multiple photos from your phone at once, too (just tap the boxy icon with the up arrow on the other side). Now go tidy up your Photo Library. Let no blurry photo go untapped. Follow Alyssa Bereznak on Twitter or email her here.
I want to be able to select a range of emails without clicking on each one, and then delete or move them. 1. Go to your inbox. 2. Press Edit. 3. Tap any message once to select it. 4. Press AND HOLD the Move button. 5. While still holding the Move button, tap the message you selected. 6. Rather than go through and delete each one individually, you can select several and delete them at once. Open your email and click the Edit button at the top. 2. Now you’ll be able to tap next to the emails you want to delete and a red check will display. On the iPad they will be listed as pages stacked on the right.
SOLUTION. Navigate to your email account's settings. 1  Go To Settings (Gear icon). 2  Tap Mail, Contacts, Calendars. 3  Select your email account (You will want to make sure this is set for all your IMAP accounts.). 4  Tap Account Info (in iOS 8, tap the item named Account [your email address]). 5  Tap Advanced (At the very bottom. 
Combine sorting and multiple selection to delete multiple emails. Let’s say you want to delete all email from a particular person. The process would combine what I’ve shown you so far: 1  Sort your email list by “From” or “Sender”. 2  Use click and SHIFT-click to select all the emails from that person. 3  Delete. 
Here’s how you delete multiple emails at once in iOS. First, launch the email app by tapping the Mail icon on the Home screen. Head to the email account that you want to clean up. At the top of the left panel tap Edit. Tap all of the email messages that you want to delete. A red checkmark icon will appear next to each one you select.
Pelican Rapids, MN: If you use the email app on your iPhone, iPad or iPod touch, you know it’s tedious to read and delete your emails one at a time. First, launch the email app by tapping the Mail icon on the Home screen. Head to the email account that you want to clean up. At the top of the left panel tap Edit. Tap all of the email messages that you want to delete. A red checkmark icon will appear next to each one you select.
4. The process is essentially the same with the iPhone or iPod touch as well. While in your email tap on Edit. 5. Then Delete or move your email to a different folder or the Trash. 6. If you prefer to delete your email individually, one trick is to go into Settings and turn off Ask Before Deleting. 7. Rather than go through and delete each one individually, you can select several and delete them at once. Open your email and click the Edit button at the top. 2. Now you’ll be able to tap next to the emails you want to delete and a red check will display. On the iPad they will be listed as pages stacked on the right.
How to quickly delete or archive an email. In iOS 7, if you want to delete or archive an email, you had to swipe left on the email and then tap on the Trash or Archive option. iOS 8 makes it much easier with the new quick delete feature. You can now swipe all the way across to the left to delete the email. Move Discarded Messages Into: section). 