Here is a neat and easy project on how to make a chicken egg incubator. Doesn't take long to make. The eggs will hatch in 21 days. I give you all the guidelines for successfully incubating the chickens including what to do and how to make the incubator. About My Channel: I have hundreds of videos covering all kinds of creative projects.
Feed and water should be available for the broody duck and for the ducklings when they hatch. Egg Storage If eggs are stored for a while before they are set, they should be stored at a temperature and humidity level that will minimize deterioration of the egg. For a small number of eggs, storage in a cellar may suffice. If the duckling is developing normally, the air cell should occupy about one-third of the space inside the egg at 25 days of incubation (common ducks). Weight loss can also be used as a guide. Common duck eggs should lose about 14% of their weight at time of setting by 25 days.
Pekin duck eggs are kept in a setter for 25 days and then transferred on the 25th day to a hatcher where they remain until they hatch on the 28th day. Eggs are automatically turned while in the setter (usually hourly), but not in the hatcher. If the duckling is developing normally, the air cell should occupy about one-third of the space inside the egg at 25 days of incubation (common ducks). Weight loss can also be used as a guide. Common duck eggs should lose about 14% of their weight at time of setting by 25 days.
Eggs from common ducks like Pekins require 28 days to hatch. Eggs from Muscovy ducks hatch in about 35 days after setting. When larger numbers of duck eggs are to be hatched, large commercial incubators (setters) and hatchers are normally used. If the duckling is developing normally, the air cell should occupy about one-third of the space inside the egg at 25 days of incubation (common ducks). Weight loss can also be used as a guide. Common duck eggs should lose about 14% of their weight at time of setting by 25 days.
Incubating and Hatching Duck Eggs. The incubation and hatching of duck and goose eggs is not a difficult experience and can be very rewarding. Besides the information below, there is valuable incubation information elsewhere on our website. 
Clean eggs keep the incubator clean and give you a higher hatch rate. As you are collecting the duck eggs for hatching, keep them a room temperature of 65* to 75*F and turn them once a day. I put mine in an egg carton, small side down, and support one end of the egg carton on a book. To turn the eggs, I change the end of the carton that is raised. While for incubating chicken eggs I keep these holes covered until the final 4 days of the hatch, when incubating duck eggs I keep these holes constantly open. In the final week, as you get closer to hatching, be sure that the Hova-bator has all ventilation holes uncovered.
When larger numbers of duck eggs are to be hatched, large commercial incubators (setters) and hatchers are normally used. Pekin duck eggs are kept in a setter for 25 days and then transferred on the 25th day to a hatcher where they remain until they hatch on the 28th day. As the duckling develops inside the egg there is a loss of water from the egg and an increase in the size of the air cell. If the duckling is developing normally, the air cell should occupy about one-third of the space inside the egg at 25 days of incubation (common ducks). Weight loss can also be used as a guide.
Eggs from common ducks like Pekins require 28 days to hatch. Eggs from Muscovy ducks hatch in about 35 days after setting. When larger numbers of duck eggs are to be hatched, large commercial incubators (setters) and hatchers are normally used. Pekin duck eggs are kept in a setter for 25 days and then transferred on the 25th day to a hatcher where they remain until they hatch on the 28th day. Eggs are automatically turned while in the setter (usually hourly). It is not necessary to turn eggs in the hatcher.
How to Hatch a Mallard Duck Egg. Mallard ducks are amazing animals. And sometimes you want to help them hatch. It's important to not remove wild ducks eggs from any nest without the proper cause; however, if the mother is confirmed missing for over a period of 48 hours, you may be able to help. Ad. To increase your chances of a complete hatch the sooner you put them in to hatch the better. Before placing eggs in the incubator use a pencil and gently write an O on one side and an X on the other side (sides not top and bottom).