Dan Nancarrow. On average, schoolies spend more than $1000 during a week on Surfers Paradise. Schoolies week can be a source of concern for parents as school leavers make their pilgrimage to tourist hot spots along the coast to celebrate the end of their secondary studies. The chief executive of schoolies.com, Matt Lloyd, says schoolies generally have $500 to $1000 to spend after paying for their accommodation. But sometimes you'll have a few students who have a bit more than that , he says. Ms Whyte was 18 when on her week-long adventure and spent $90 on alcohol.
Schoolies Wristbands are not needed for all destinations or all dates. With each booking we ask for a $100 deposit per person for QLD destinations and $200 deposit per person for all other destinations, which is non-refundable. A small price to pay for the best week of your life, really. We will ask for this deposit when you go through the process of booking on Schoolies.com. Schoolies.com is the Yoda of all things schoolies. With over 27 years of Schoolies accommodation and Schoolies party experience, we know what's good. Schoolies.com is the place to organise the week of your life, while still making sure that your safety is priority number one.
brisbanetimes.com.au estimates the average Queensland schoolie spends at least $1037 during a seven-day stay at Surfers Paradise. Although the popular image of schoolies week is drinking teenagers, more than half the average cost is in accommodation, with alcohol likely to be just 10 per cent of the total. The chief executive of schoolies.com, Matt Lloyd, says schoolies generally have $500 to $1000 to spend after paying for their accommodation. But sometimes you'll have a few students who have a bit more than that , he says. Ms Whyte was 18 when on her week-long adventure and spent $90 on alcohol.
No government funding is used for marketing or promoting of Schoolies to school leavers, Ms Struthers said. Bookschoolies.com director Matt Lloyd estimates students pay on average $500 for accommodation and bring $1000 with them, creating a $60 million windfall for the city during a usually quiet period. Picture: Marc Robertson Source: The Sunday Mail (Qld). THE annual Schoolies celebration on the Gold Coast has become a $2 million party funded by the public, according to latest figures. A Sunday Mail investigation into the hidden costs of the festival reveals clear winners and losers.
8. How much deposit will I pay to book my Schoolies holiday? With each booking we ask for a $100 deposit per person for QLD destinations and $200 deposit per person for all other destinations, which is non-refundable. A small price to pay for the best week of your life, really. We will ask for this deposit when you go through the process of booking on Schoolies.com. Schoolies.com is the Yoda of all things schoolies. With over 27 years of Schoolies accommodation and Schoolies party experience, we know what's good. Schoolies.com is the place to organise the week of your life, while still making sure that your safety is priority number one.
As far as rites of passage go, schoolies can be an expensive one. The cost of nightclubs, beach parties and inflated room rates has pushed the price of the annual Gold Coast knees-up into the realm of a school leaver's first car. Many of the 36,000 young visitors will book accommodation for the three-week party, lasting until December 8, through schoolies.com and 1800schoolies. A week at the Alexander Holiday Apartments is $768 per schoolie, or a total of $3072, more than double the $300-a-night cost during Christmas week. Q1 Resort private apartments is $1100 per schoolie, or a total of $4400. A similar apartment is available for a week from December 15 for a total of $2470. On top room rates, bonds are an extra $200 person and it is common for rooms that ordinarily sleep four to be sold as six occupancy. Revellers can expect to fork out $100 for all access party passes. Late submission of photos for ID passes costs $60 at schoolies.com and $50 at
According to the specialist accommodation provider schoolies.com, the average cost for a seven-night stay on the Gold Coast is $537 a person. But some students pay almost double. A class of 2011 school leaver, Giorgia Whyte, said she spent $800 on accommodation at Moroccan Resort last year. The chief executive of schoolies.com, Matt Lloyd, says schoolies generally have $500 to $1000 to spend after paying for their accommodation. But sometimes you'll have a few students who have a bit more than that , he says. Ms Whyte was 18 when on her week-long adventure and spent $90 on alcohol.
Don’t worry. Camping is the perfect alternative for school leavers looking for a good time without the cost and hassle of heading to the towns that have become synonymous with schoolies. All you will need is a few mates, some tents and a penchant for a good time. Victoria is perfect for camping. World Youth Adventures offers alternative schoolies trips that coincide with the usual schoolies period to a variety of locations including Nepal, China, Cambodia, Cambodia and Laos, Indochina and, closer to home, Tasmania.