Teresa Merrigan, 2005. A reliquary (also referred to as a shrine or by the French term chasse) châsse is a container for. Relics these may be the purported or actual physical remains of, saints such as, bones pieces of, clothing or some object associated with saints or other religious. figures These may be the purported or actual physical remains of saints, such as bones, pieces of clothing, or some object associated with saints or other religious figures. The authenticity of any given relic is often a matter of debate; for that reason, some churches require documentation of the relic's provenance.
For the subzone in Scholomance, see Reliquary (Scholomance). For the subzone in Silvermoon City, see Reliquary (Silvermoon City). The Reliquary is a blood elven organization dedicated to the acquisition of powerful magical artifacts and studying the past, serving as the Horde counterpart to the Explorer's League. It is led by High Examiner Tae'thelan Bloodwatcher.
The Holy Thorn Reliquary was probably created in the 1390s in Paris for John, Duke of Berry, to house a relic of the Crown of Thorns. The reliquary was in the Habsburg collections from at least the 16th century until the 1860s, when it was replaced by a forgery during a restoration by an art dealer, Salomon Weininger. The fraud remained undetected until well after the original reliquary came to the British Museum.
A reliquary is a type of shrine used to house relics, which are physical items associated with saints or other religious figures and traditionally believed to have supernatural healing powers. 
A reliquary (also referred to as a shrine or by the French term chasse) châsse is a container for. relics These may be the purported or actual physical remains of saints, such as bones, pieces of clothing, or some object associated with saints or other religious figures. The authenticity of any given relic is often a matter of debate; for that reason, some churches require documentation of the relic's provenance.
1. reliquary-a container where religious relics are stored or displayed (especially relics of saints). container-any object that can be used to hold things (especially a large metal boxlike object of standardized dimensions that can be loaded from one form of transport to another). Rich reliquary Of lofty contemplation left to Time By buried centuries of pomp and power. Poems by Poe, Edgar Allan View in context. A golden chain, to which was attached a small reliquary of the same metal, hung round her neck.
• RELIQUARY (noun). The noun RELIQUARY has 1 sense: 1. a container where religious relics are stored or displayed (especially relics of saints). Familiarity information: RELIQUARY used as a noun is very rare. 
A philatory is a transparent reliquary designed to contain and exhibit the bones and relics of saints. This style of reliquary has a viewing portal by which to view the relic contained inside. During the later Middle Ages, the monstrance form, mostly used for consecrated hosts, was sometimes used for reliquaries. These may be the purported or actual physical remains of saints, such as bones, pieces of clothing, or some object associated with saints or other religious figures. The authenticity of any given relic is often a matter of debate; for that reason, some churches require documentation of the relic's provenance.
Full Definition of RELIQUARY. : a container or shrine in which sacred relics are kept. See reliquary defined for English-language learners. See reliquary defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 
Reliquary. a repository for relics, characteristic mainly of the Christian cult. Reliquaries, known since the third century, were especially widespread in Western Europe and to a lesser degree in Byzantium and ancient Rus’. They could be of the most varying forms, from tiny coffers to large shrines. reliquary. (rĕl'əkwĕr`ē) , receptacle containing the relics of saints and other sacred objects of the Christian religion. Reliquaries were often designed in shapes that reflected the nature of their contents, such as hands, shoes, buildings, and heads.