[ 1 syll. (c)had, ch-ad ] The baby boy name Chad is pronounced as CH-aeD †. Chad is of Old English and Germanic origin. It is used mainly in English. Old English origin: It is derived from the word cad which is of the meaning 'battle, warrior'. An original form of the name is Ceadda (Old English). The name is of obscure origin. It was borne by the 7th-century Saint Chad, Bishop of York. Chad is an all-time favorite. Currently it is still rather popular as a baby boy name, but to a lesser degree than it was in the past. The name increased in popularity from the 1940s up to the 1970s; prior to that, it was of only sporadic use. Its usage peaked in 1972 with 0.800% of baby boys being named Chad.
Meanings and history of the name Chad : | Edit. After researching the origins of Chad, it was very cool to see that my name originates from the (pre)Celtic word Cad, meaning battle, warrior - a name used for the tribe's chief-king (battle or war leader), possibly evolving into an honorary title. This manner of use for the name continued into later times.
The name Chad is of English origin, and it means From the Warrior's Town . It's a name commonly given to boys. Chad Michael Murray is an actor, model, spokesperson, and writer with the most prominent portion of his career being from 1999 to present. 
Baby names meanings search results: The name Chad is a baby boy name. The name Chad comes from the English origin. In English The meaning of the name Chad is: Protector; defender. English form of a Welsh name meaning battle or warring. Famous bearer: 7th-century bishop St Chad founded the Samaritans, a charitable organization providing service for the suicidal and despairing.
Look up Chad in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. Chad is a masculine given name of Anglo-Saxon / Welsh origins. It is the modernized form of the Old English given name Ceadda, possibly influenced by the Welsh word cad meaning battle. Ceadda was a 7th-century English saint. Until the 20th century, Chad was very rarely used as a given name.
Origin of the name Chad: Believed to be a modern variant of the obsolete Old English Ceadda, a name of uncertain meaning. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. After researching the origins of Chad, it was very cool to see that my name originates from the (pre)Celtic word Cad, meaning battle, warrior - a name used for the tribe's chief-king (battle or war leader), possibly evolving into an honorary title. This manner of use for the name continued into later times.
The meaning of the name Chad is: Defense warrior. The origin of the name Chad is believed to be Celtic. C: The positive personality traits: Highly Sociable, Inspiring, Excellent Vocal communication skills, Motivational, Fun loving, Creative and Imaginative ,Versatile. 
The name Chad is an Anglo-Saxon baby name. In Anglo-Saxon the meaning of the name Chad is: Name of a saint. American Meaning: The name Chad is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Chad is: Name of a saint. Celtic Meaning: The name Chad is a Celtic baby name. In Celtic the meaning of the name Chad is: Defence. English Meaning: The name Chad is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Chad is: Protector; defender. English form of a Welsh name meaning battle or warring
English names generally consist of a given name, middle name and family name. Many English speaking countries have fairly flexible naming laws. This allows the multicultural families that live in these countries to merge the naming conventions of their faiths or previous nationalities with their current homeland. 
Chad /chad/ [1 syll.] as a boys' name is pronounced chad. It is of Old English origin. Modern spelling of the medieval given name Ceadda, borne by a seventh-century saint who was Archbishop of York. Also a short form of various surnames. Actors Chad Everett, Chad Lowe; football players Chad Morton, Chad Pennington. 