As your puppy gets older, you may be tempted to leave him alone for longer and longer periods. Your puppy can likely hold his bladder for 7-8 hours now and many of his bad habits, such as destroying the couch or the crate pad, may be behind him. 
Here are a few simple steps to make your puppy comfortable home alone: 1  Start by introducing your dog to his crate. 2  Crate him for short periods while you are present and gradually increase the time crated. 3  Reward quiet behaviour with calm praise and perhaps a treat such as a piece of dog food. 1 Crate him for short periods while you are present and gradually increase the time crated. 2  Reward quiet behaviour with calm praise and perhaps a treat such as a piece of dog food. 3  Start leaving your puppy alone. 4  At first, just a few minutes at a time and then gradually increase it.
There’s not a standard time when you can first leave your puppy home alone. But ideally, you won’t leave him alone for hours at a time in the first few days. However, few of us can take time off from work to help a new puppy or dog adjust to our schedule. Get Set Up. First, make sure that you have a puppy-safe area for your pup to stay home alone. Remember that puppies pee, poop, chew and climb, so your pup should be in a pen or mostly empty small room (bathroom or laundry room) with a secure door or gate. Leave plenty of proper chew toys and, of course, water.
Preparing your Puppy for staying Home Alone. Many people have a problem leaving their dogs alone at home, because the dogs suffer from separation anxiety which manifests in a variety of problem behaviours such as house-soiling, destructive chewing, digging, howling, barking or self-mutilation.
So before leaving your puppy for long periods, you should teach him how to amuse himself appropriately when left alone, such as by chewing stuffed chewtoys, and learning how to enjoy his own company without becoming anxious or stressed. To teach your puppy how to settle down calmly and quietly when you are absent, start by teaching him to settle down with a chewtoy at times when you are present. A dog is not like a television or a video game.
Don't worry. Just because you have a dog now doesn't mean that you'll be stuck at home for the next decade. You have a lot of options for when you need to leave your puppy alone. She can stay inside or outside. You can confine her in a room or let her roam around. You can tie her up or fence her in
So a 3 month old puppy can hold it for 3 hours, a 4 month old for 4 hours, etc. At about 6 to 8 months your dog should be able to hold his potty for an entire night. During the day it is different though, and each dog is different. You need to be aware of your puppy’s potty habits. After a while, your dog should get used to the routine of taking potty breaks in the morning before you leave, once during the afternoon, in the evening when you come home, and once again before bed. When your dog grows to be an adult, he should be able to hold off going to the bathroom for about 8 hours
I have a 3 month old puppy and we got him at the age of 6 weeks. He can be left alone for up to 5 hours, as long as he doesn't miss a meal it is absolutely fine, but that's because we started getting him used to it at a young age. The longer you leave it the more chance there is of your dog being destructive.
Although it's essential to consistently supervise your puppy during the house-training process, there's bound to be a time when you must leave him home alone for four hours. Walk your puppy about one hour before leaving him alone. Take him outside so he can go potty and play a game of fetch so he can run and have fun. A good exercise session can help keep him calm while you're away. It might tire him out so he decides to take a nap.