Last reviewed on RxList 4/29/2015. Haldol (haloperidol) is an antipsychotic drug that decreases excitement in the brain. It is used to treat psychotic disorders like schizophrenia, to control motor (movement) and verbal (for example, Tourette's syndrome) tics and is used to treat severe behavior problems in children. 
What it’s used to treat. Haldol is primarily used in the treatment of schizophrenia and schizoaffective disorder (a disorder similar to schizophrenia but including mood symptoms such as depression or mania). It is also often used to treat the tics and uncontrollable vocal outbursts associated with Tourette’s syndrome
38 Reviews. Haldol is the brand name for haloperidol, an anti-psychotic medicine used to treat mental and mood disorders, including schizophrenia and acute psychosis. It is often used in emergency room psychiatric situations. It helps reduce aggression, negative thoughts, and the desire to harm someone or oneself. A: Haldol (haloperidol) is an antipsychotic medication that is used to treat psychosis, Tourette's Syndrome, and agitation. Recent studies have suggested a link between haloperidol and breast cancer.
Haloperidol, marketed under the trade name Haldol among others, is a typical antipsychotic medication. It is used in the treatment of schizophrenia, tics in Tourette syndrome, nausea and vomiting, delirium, agitation, acute psychosis, and hallucinations in alcohol withdrawal. Haloperidol may result in a movement disorder known as tardive dyskinesia which may be permanent. Neuroleptic malignant syndrome and QT-interval prolongation may occur. In older people with psychosis due to dementia it results in an increased risk of death.
Haldol is prescribed to treat several conditions, such as psychotic disorders, tics associated with Tourette syndrome, severe behavior problems in children, and severe ADHD in children. 
PRESCRIBED FOR: Haloperidol is used for treating schizophrenia, acute psychosis, and for tics and vocal utterances of Tourette's syndrome. SIDE EFFECTS: The most common side effects associated with haloperidol are: 1  extrapyramidal effects (sudden, often jerky, involuntary motions of the head, neck, arms, body, or eyes), 
Haldol is often prescribed for the treatment of psychotic disorders, such as schizophrenia, delusional disorder, or schizoaffective disorder. Although it is not a cure for these mental illnesses, the drug can help improve symptoms. The antipsychotic medicine is also approved to treat tics associated with Tourette syndrome, as well as severe behavior problems and severe attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in children.
Haloperidol is an antipsychotic medication. It works by changing the actions of chemicals in your brain. Haloperidol is used to treat schizophrenia. It is also used to control motor and speech tics in people with Tourette's syndrome. Haloperidol may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide.