Education and Qualifications. To become a dental hygienist, you'll need either a 2- or 4-year degree in dental hygiene. Most programs are two years long and lead to an associate's degree. They are offered through community colleges and technical colleges. Your coursework will include classes such as the following: 1  Anatomy and Physiology.
How to Become a Dental Hygienist in 5 Steps. Research what it takes to become a dental hygienist. Learn about job duties, education requirements, licensure and job outlook to find out if this is the career for you. Schools offering Dental Hygiene degrees can also be found in these popular choices. The BLS states that many dentists schedule dental hygienists to work 2-3 days per week. If you have a bachelor's degree, you may also find employment in teaching or research. The BLS predicted that job opportunities for dental hygienists would grow by 33% between 2012 and 2022.
Step 2: Get Licensed. Dental hygienists must be licensed in all U.S. states. Eligibility requirements vary, but nearly all states call for applicants to hold postsecondary credentials from accredited dental hygiene programs. Other requirements can include CPR certification, school transcripts, and/or letters of recommendation. 
Becoming a registered dental hygienist (RDH) allows you to work in one of the fastest growing careers in America. With the growth of preventative dental cleaning, the Bureau of Labor Statistics expects demand for RDHs to grow by 38 percent until 2020. 1 Apply to a 4-year university. 2  Some schools provide 4-year bachelor's degrees in dental hygiene. 3  You will be required to take the general liberal arts prerequisites, as well as science and clinical dental studies.
1 Apply to a 2-year certificate or associate's program with a technical school. 2  Make sure that the program is accredited and helps you to pass the National Board Dental Hygiene Examination. 3  Apply to an applied sciences associate's degree program in dental hygiene. 4  These programs are usually run by community colleges. 1 Apply to a 4-year university. 2  Some schools provide 4-year bachelor's degrees in dental hygiene. 3  You will be required to take the general liberal arts prerequisites, as well as science and clinical dental studies.
Training Information. A dental hygienist needs to graduate from an accredited school. Most dental hygienist programs grant associate's degrees, but some offer bachelor's and master's degrees. Training requires anywhere from 2-3 years of school, including prerequisites and any licensing examinations. In order to practice as a dental hygienist, one needs a degree from a dental hygiene school and a state license. To become licensed, dental hygienists need to pass a clinical and written exam
To become a dental hygienist, you may enroll in a certificate, associate's degree or bachelor's degree program. When deciding which type of program to enroll in, you should consider your career goals. The BLS states that many dentists schedule dental hygienists to work 2-3 days per week. If you have a bachelor's degree, you may also find employment in teaching or research. The BLS predicted that job opportunities for dental hygienists would grow by 33% between 2012 and 2022.
To be licensed as a dental hygienist in New York State you must: 1  be of good moral character; 2  be at least 17 years of age for dental hygiene licensure by examination; be at least 21 years of age for licensure by endorsement of another state's license; 3  meet education and examination requirements; and. 
1 Apply to an applied sciences associate's degree program in dental hygiene. 2  These programs are usually run by community colleges. 3  They often take 2 years and include comprehensive classroom and clinical study. 4  This is the most common path to becoming a dental hygienist. 5  Apply to a 4-year university. 1 Apply to a 4-year university. 2  Some schools provide 4-year bachelor's degrees in dental hygiene. 3  You will be required to take the general liberal arts prerequisites, as well as science and clinical dental studies.