Use Visio if: You want to create a small or large organization chart (up to 1000 shapes). You want to generate organization charts from existing personnel data stored in Microsoft Exchange Server or Excel data files. Visio includes a wizard that does this. You want very precise control over the chart layout. You want to create an organization chart with 30 or fewer shapes. You want your organization chart to also contain pictures. You want to add effects, such as glows, soft edges, or other 3-D effects, to your organization chart.
Insert a chart or graph in your presentation. Do the following when you want to create a new chart or graph in PowerPoint: In PowerPoint, click the placeholder that you want to contain the chart. On the Insert tab, in the Illustrations group, click Chart. In the Insert Chart dialog box, click a chart, and then click OK.
Microsoft Excel can be used to make a graph by inserting data, creating tabs and making charts. Learn about the different charts and graphs that Excel can generate with help from a software developer in this free video on Microsoft Excel. 1  Science & Technology. 2  Standard YouTube License
Making the world better, one answer at a time. You need to use Excel. Put your data into an Excel spreadsheet. If you have both an X axis and a Y axis put each axis into a column (X should be first column, ideally), otherwise if you just have an Y axis put your data in a column and your X axis will be the row number. If you have an X axis you'll need to sort by it. 
Data for a point series can be imported from other programs, e. g. Microsoft Excel. It is possible to create a line of best fit from the data in a point series, either from one of the built-in models or from a user specified model. Graph can insert shadings used to mark an area related to a function. Shadings may be created with different styles and colors in a user specified interval.
Please try again later. Making a graph in Microsoft Word requires finding the graph icon, selecting a graph type and editing the data in the spreadsheet that appears alongside the graph. Use Microsoft Word to create a line, bar or pie graph with IT help from a software developer in this free video on computers. Expert: Dave Andrews. 
Click the Insert menu, then Chart.. Click a chart type from the top of the screen. The illustration here shows a Line chart selected. Click Sort By Columns or Sort by Rows in the Excel Formatting Palette, if you want to swap the horizontal labels with the series labels. Open Word to a new blank document. Click Insert, then Chart from the menu at the top of the screen. Click the type of chart to insert. A line graph is chosen in the illustration here. Choosing a chart type will automatically launch Excel and display a template where you enter the graph data.
Overview of data charting and graphing. You can add a data chart or graph to your presentation in one of two ways: You can create a chart or graph in your presentation. When you create a new chart in PowerPoint, you edit the data for that chart in Office Excel 2007, but the data is saved with the PowerPoint file. You can paste an Excel chart or graph into your presentation and link to the data in an Office Excel 2007 file. Do the following when you want to create a new chart or graph in PowerPoint: In PowerPoint, click the placeholder that you want to contain the chart. On the Insert tab, in the Illustrations group, click Chart. In the Insert Chart dialog box, click a chart, and then click OK.
Use the SmartArt graphic feature if: You want to create an organization chart with 30 or fewer shapes. You want your organization chart to also contain pictures. You want to add effects, such as glows, soft edges, or other 3-D effects, to your organization chart.
With Word. Open Word to a new blank document. Click Insert, then Chart from the menu at the top of the screen. Click the type of chart to insert. A line graph is chosen in the illustration here. Choosing a chart type will automatically launch Excel and display a template where you enter the graph data. Enter your graph data into the template