Cost to Repair Appliances 2012. According to Homewyse, in 2012 the average cost to Repair Appliances varies from $184.63 to $242.40 per each appliance. Your cost depends on material costs and local labor, level of preparation, finishes quality and job complexity. 
$324.53. Get an INSTANT estimate of the cost to Repair an Appliances! Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Appliance Repair project. For a basic 1 repair project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Repair an Appliances ranges between $261.88 - $324.53 per repair.
Compare the quote for the assessment, the quote for repair and the costs of new washing machines. Take into consideration the other aspects such as lost wages. Consider the age of the washing machine. According to Appliance.net, the average lifespan of a washing machine is 12 years. Sometimes the cost of repairing an old machine is more than a new one. Ask for help. Consult a home improvement store representative's opinion.
Get an INSTANT estimate of the cost to Replace a Washing Machine! Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Washing Machine Replacement project. For a basic 1 machine project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Replace a Washing Machine ranges between $463.56 - $979.64 per machine. To estimate costs for your project: 1.
Appliance repair can be a large investment, especially if it’s your major appliances that break down or require frequent maintenance. Homeowners report that the average cost for appliance repair is $171 and most spend between &$108 and $238. Try to group appliance repairs together, if you can; it will save you some money. Also, try to find a local contractor; they charge less than repairmen who work through a larger company. Your dryer saves you time and keeps you from having to hang clothes out on a line. Like your washer, it’s important to keep it in good working order. The average cost to repair a dryer generally runs between $100 and $400, depending on the type of repair.
Cost to Repair a Dryer. Your dryer saves you time and keeps you from having to hang clothes out on a line. Like your washer, it’s important to keep it in good working order. The average cost to repair a dryer generally runs between $100 and $400, depending on the type of repair. A number of things can go wrong with your dryer, so it’s important to stay on top of service, maintenance and repai
How much does it cost to repair a washer? It will cost $60 to $85 an hour to hire a professional to fix your washing machine. Front loading washing machines have an average life of 10 years. Top loading washing machines have an average life of 15 years. If your unit is that old you may want to consider replacing the unit entirely. A top load washing machine costs $250 to $1,200. Sizes range from 2.5 Cubic feet to 5.2 cubic feet. The more expensive washers can double in size. Make sure you get a washer that will fit your lifestyle
On Appliance Part Pros, washing machine belts range in price from around $5 to around $20 and on Amazon, they range in price from around $6 to around $20, so the average cost to repair the belt on a washing machine is around $12 or $13. References. Belt Repair Costs. The cost to replace a belt in need of repair on a washing machine varies. Prices depend on the manufacturer of the washer, the model of the washer and how old of a washer unit you own.