American writer William Faulkner was born in New Albany, Mississippi in 1897. Much of his early work was poetry, but he became famous for his novels set in the American South, frequently in his fabricated Yoknapatawpha County, with works that included The Sound and the Fury, As I Lay Dying and Absalom, Absalom! 
Faulkner's grandfather would also tell him of the exploits of William's great-grandfather, after whom he was named, William Clark Falkner, who was a successful businessman, writer, and a Civil War hero. According to one of Faulkner's biographers, by the time William was born, his great-grandfather had been enshrined long since as a household deity. In adolescence, Faulkner began writing poetry almost exclusively. He did not write his first novel until 1925. His literary influences are deep and wide.
What Faulkner seemed to object to most about short story writing was the kind of short stories he had to write commercial, mass-consumption stories that would sell for high prices in such magazines as Saturday Evening Post (his favorite destination for his stories), Scribner’s, and Harper’s. 
William Faulkner, an interview of The Paris Review, in 1956. As an innovative writer, Faulkner is known for his experimental writing style with meticulous evaluation of the utterance, diction and cadence and scrupulous attention to the details of characters’ utterance and state of minds. His rich and brilliant baroque writing style is developed in the extremely long sentences embedding with complex subordinate parts. Faulkner’s stories were often written with a highly emotional, delicate, cerebral, complicated style with Gothic or grotesque elements.
Photograph by Carl Van Vechten. William Faulkner was born in 1897 in New Albany, Mississippi, where his father was then working as a conductor on the railroad built by the novelist’s great-grandfather, Colonel William Falkner (without the “u”), author of The White Rose of Memphis. 
Biography of William Faulkner. William Faulkner was a prolific writer who became very famous during his lifetime, but who shied away from the spotlight as much as possible. He is remembered as both a gentlemanly Southern eccentric and an arrogant, snobbish alcoholic. Faulkner's father was Murray Falkner, who moved from job to job before becoming the business manager of the University of Mississippi, where he and his family lived for the rest of his life. William Faulkner was born on September 25, 1897, and began to write poetry as a teenager.
Faulkner wrote novels, short stories, a play, poetry, essays, and screenplays. He is primarily known for his novels and short stories set in the fictional Yoknapatawpha County, based on Lafayette County, Mississippi, where he spent most of his life. According to one of Faulkner's biographers, by the time William was born, his great-grandfather had been enshrined long since as a household deity. In adolescence, Faulkner began writing poetry almost exclusively. He did not write his first novel until 1925. His literary influences are deep and wide.
William Cuthbert Faulkner (/ˈfɔːlknər/ , September 25, 1897 – July 6, 1962) was an American writer and Nobel Prize laureate from Oxford, Mississippi. According to one of Faulkner's biographers, by the time William was born, his great-grandfather had been enshrined long since as a household deity. In adolescence, Faulkner began writing poetry almost exclusively. He did not write his first novel until 1925. His literary influences are deep and wide.
William Cuthbert Faulkner was born to an old southern family on September 25, 1897 in New Albany, Mississippi. He was the eldest of four more sons of Murry Cuthbert Falkner and Maud Butler. Faulkner grew up in Oxford, Mississippi where his family moved in 1902. William Faulkner. The Noble Prize winner American Writer, William Faulkner has written many critically acclaimed short stories, plays, screenplays, essays and novels.