1. Choose a planting location in full sun in a very well drained area. Spade or cultivate the soil when soil temperatures reach 65 degrees. Add 1 to 2 inches of sand if the soil drains poorly or contains too much humus. Pour moss rose seeds into a container with three to four parts dry sand and mix thoroughly. Moss rose seeds are very fine, making it difficult to sow them thinly without the added sand.
How to Grow Portulaca Plants. Portulaca flowers tolerate many kinds of soil but prefer sandy, well-drained soil and love the full sunlight. These plants are excellent for high heat and drought tolerance, and will seed and spread themselves very well. 
Rake cultivated soil smooth in preparation for sowing portulaca seeds. Portulaca grandiflora, commonly called moss rose, makes an easy-care garden border or container garden. Pour moss rose seeds into a container with three to four parts dry sand and mix thoroughly. Moss rose seeds are very fine, making it difficult to sow them thinly without the added sand.
Set the seed flat in a warm, brightly lit area out of direct sun. The best temperature for successful germination is between 68 and 86 degrees F. The top of your refrigerator or above a hot water heater are good locations provided there is enough light available. Your portulaca seeds will germinate in 10 to 15 days. Step 2. Sow a single portulaca seed in the center of the soil in each cell of the flat. Don't cover the seeds with soil because they require plenty of light for germination.
Planting: If you’re growing your portulaca plants from seed, take care not to over sow the tiny seeds, which are as small as pepper flakes. You can start the seeds indoors eight weeks before your last frost date for earlier flowers, or plant them in the ground after last frost. Portulacas demand well-drained soil.
Sow Moss Rose ground cover seed in starter trays or individual pots 6 - 8 weeks before end of frost season. Press the Moss Rose seeds into the soil but do not cover. The seeds need light to germinate. Transplant the Moss Rose seedlings into the garden 12 inches apart. Portulaca seeds can also be directly sown in prepared soil outdoors after all danger of frost. Moss Rose ground cover plants tolerate heat and drought, but they do look best with occasional watering. Portulaca Moss Rose works well in hot, dry garden spots. This mix of Portulaca seeds offers a collection of some of the most intense, colorful blooms you will ever see! The 2-inch flowers on these ground cover plants are fully double and beautifully shaped.
Portulaca, or moss rose, is an edible plant that grows in the Americas and northern Europe. There are close to 100 varieties of portulaca. Portulaca makes for a great ground cover, sprouting multicolored flowers of pink, yellow, white, orange and red. The varieties grow anywhere from three to six inches high.
How to Grow Moss Rose Plants: Moss Rose is easy to grow. Grow Moss Rose plants in full sun. Plants prefer average to poor soils. They prefer loose, sandy or loam soil. A well draining composition is important. Moss Rose plants are drought and heat tolerant. In the flower garden, watering is seldom needed. 
Hybrids of this colorful, rose-like, mat-forming annual from South America provide a wide variety of colors and bicolors with single or double flowers. Easy to start from seed outdoors, moss roses grow in full sun in well-drained soil that is not highly fertile. For an earlier start, moss roses can be planted in pots indoors six to eight weeks before temperatures are warm enough for planting in the ground. Pour moss rose seeds into a container with three to four parts dry sand and mix thoroughly. Moss rose seeds are very fine, making it difficult to sow them thinly without the added sand.
Overview. Portulaca, or moss rose, is a colorful, hardy annual that's as tough as it is attractive. Drought tolerant and heat resistant, these easy-care South American natives perform well as bedding plants, rock garden specimens, borders and ground covers. Step 2. Sow a single portulaca seed in the center of the soil in each cell of the flat. Don't cover the seeds with soil because they require plenty of light for germination.