Blood urea nitrogen to creatinine ratio (BUN:creatinine). A BUN test may be done with a blood creatinine test. The level of creatinine in your blood also tells how well your kidneys are working—a high creatinine level may mean your kidneys are not working properly. Blood urea nitrogen (BUN) and creatinine tests can be used together to find the BUN-to-creatinine ratio (BUN:creatinine).
Occasionally, a health practitioner will look at the ratio between a person's BUN and blood creatinine to help determine what is causing these concentrations to be higher than normal. The ratio of BUN to creatinine is usually between 10:1 and 20:1. An increased ratio may be due to a condition that causes a decrease in the flow of blood to the kidneys, such as congestive heart failure or dehydration. 
The levels of blood creatinine and blood urea nitrogen (BUN) can be used to find the BUN-to-creatinine ratio. A BUN-to-creatinine ratio can help your doctor check for problems, such as dehydration, that may cause abnormal BUN and creatinine levels. Urea is a waste product made when protein is broken down in your body. 1 Dehydration generally causes BUN levels to rise more than creatinine levels. 2  This causes a high BUN-to-creatinine ratio. 3  Kidney disease or blockage of the flow of urine from your kidney causes both BUN and creatinine levels to rise.
For this reason, BUN and creatinine are used together to measure kidney function. If kidney function begins to decline, BUN and creatinine rise. A normal creatinine depends on muscle mass and age. In general, a normal creatine is 0.5 to 1.2 milligrams per deciliter (mg/dL). A normal BUN is 7 to 20 mg/dL. Remember that different laboratories use different testing equipment, and may have slightly different ranges for normal. A normal BUN-to-creatinine ratio is between 10 to 1 and 20 to 1. (For example, a BUN of 14 and a creatinine of 1.2 would be a ratio of 12.).
Normal creatinine clearance for men is between 97 to 137 milliliters per minute, and women have a normal clearance of 88 to 128 milliliters per minute. BUN/creatinine is the ratio between blood urea nitrogen (BUN), a waste product in the blood from protein metabolism, and creatinine. 
The creatinine levels in both urine and blood are determined and compared. Normal creatinine clearance for healthy women is 88-128 mL/min. and 97 to 137 mL/min. in males (normal levels may vary slightly between labs). Blood urea nitrogen (BUN) level is another indicator of kidney function. 
BUN Creatinine Ratio can help a physician to decide what has caused your renal failure or if you have renal failure at all. This generally is only helpful if you do not already have chronic renal failure, and are just having an acute episode of renal disease. Normal BUN:Creatinine ratios are 10:1 to 20:1. You could have a high BUN Creatinine Ratio and not have any symptoms at all. If you do have renal failure, and both your BUN and Creatinine are elevated, you may have the following symptoms: - Less urination-Blood in the urine-Swelling in the extremities-Vomiting-Weakness-Confusion-Seizures.
The normal range of urea nitrogen in blood or serum is 5 to 20 mg/dl, or 1.8 to 7.1 mmol urea per liter. The range is wide because of normal variations due to protein intake, endogenous protein catabolism, state of hydration, hepatic urea synthesis, and renal urea excretion. The principle behind this ratio is the fact that both urea (BUN) and creatinine are freely filtered by the glomerulus, however urea reabsorbed by the tubules can be regulated (increased or decreased) whereas creatinine reabsorption remains the same (minimal reabsorption).
Blood urea nitrogen to creatinine ratio (BUN:creatinine). A BUN test may be done with a blood creatinine test. The level of creatinine in your blood also tells how well your kidneys are working-a high creatinine level may mean your kidneys are not working properly. A blood urea nitrogen (BUN) test measures the amount of nitrogen in your blood that comes from the waste product urea. Urea is made when protein is broken down in your body. Urea is made in the liver and passed out of your body in the urine. A BUN test is done to see how well your kidneys are working.
In medicine, the BUN-to-creatinine ratio is the ratio of two serum laboratory values, the blood urea nitrogen (BUN) (mg/dL) and serum creatinine (mg/dL) (Cr). The principle behind this ratio is the fact that both urea (BUN) and creatinine are freely filtered by the glomerulus, however urea reabsorbed by the tubules can be regulated (increased or decreased) whereas creatinine reabsorption remains the same (minimal reabsorption).