Abraham Lincoln (National Archives). The Civil War is the central event in America's historical consciousness. While the Revolution of 1776-1783 created the United States, the Civil War of 1861-1865 determined what kind of nation it would be. The event that triggered war came at Fort Sumter in Charleston Bay on April 12, 1861. Claiming this United States fort as their own, the Confederate army on that day opened fire on the federal garrison and forced it to lower the American flag in surrender. Lincoln called out the militia to suppress this insurrection..
They included Kentucky, Delaware, Maryland, Missouri and West Virginia. (West Virginia succeeded from Virginia after Virginia succeeded from the Union in order to avoid fighting for the Confederacy.) They were all near the border of the Confederacy. The North wanted to force the south to rejoin the union and to keep the union together. The north was split in the want of ending slavery and containing it in the south and no … t letting it move into territories in the west.
The South (Confederacy) were shocked by his violent acts. His raid started the tension between the North (Union) and the South (Confederacy). Later, many white Southerners blamed the North for Brown's acts. That is the first event that triggered the Civil War. The North wanted to force the south to rejoin the union and to keep the union together. The north was split in the want of ending slavery and containing it in the south and no … t letting it move into territories in the west.
The election of Abraham Lincoln in 1860 triggered the war between the union and the confederacy. Lincoln wanted to end slavery and keep the Union together. report this answer. Updated on Thursday, February 02 2012 at 04:17AM EST. Source: www.radford.edu/... 
When there is conflict and war within a country between it's own political factions, it is usually referred to as a civil war. As the Union and the Confederacy were both facti … ons of the United States, the war is titled the Civil War. 2 people found this useful. The North wanted to force the south to rejoin the union and to keep the union together. The north was split in the want of ending slavery and containing it in the south and no … t letting it move into territories in the west.
The American Civil War, widely known in the United States as simply the Civil War as well as other sectional names, was a civil war fought from 1861 to 1865 to determine the survival of the Union or independence for the Confederacy. The war had its origin in the fractious issue of slavery, especially the extension of slavery into the western territories. After four years of combat, which left over 600,000 Union and Confederate soldiers dead and destroyed much of the South's infrastructure, the Confederacy collapsed and slavery was abolished.
American Civil War-Wikipedia. The American Civil War was fought in the United States from 1861 until 1865 between the ... The Union was led by President Abraham Lincoln and the Confederacy by ... During the Civil War, the nation was not as clearly divided as one might think. While the Mason-Dixon line separated northern states from southern ... Anybody who looks at the first two years of the war and what (President Abraham) ... one that exists between the Sons of the Union Veterans and the Sons of the ... The event that triggered war came at Fort Sumter in Charleston Bay on April 12, 1861. Outright war between the U.S. and Britain was a possibility in the ... War was unlikely in any event, for the U.S. was providing Britain with over 40% of its ... American Civil War (click to enlarge) Confederate Gen. Robert E. Lee surrendering to Union Gen. Ulysses S ...
When there is conflict and war within a country between it's own political factions, it is usually referred to as a civil war. As the Union and the Confederacy were both facti … ons of the United States, the war is titled the Civil War. The Union had the majority of the factories, and sold their products to countries like Grea … t Britain, France and Spain. The Confederacy had the majority of the farm land and sold cotton and other cash crops to Great Britain.
During the American Civil War, the Union was the term used to refer to the United States of America, and specifically to the national government and the 20 free states and five border slave states which supported it. The flag of the United States of America from 1861 to 1863. The southern states were still represented in the number of stars in the flag, since the Confederacy's declaration of secession from the Union was still considered illegal by the United States.