In 1986 the Piping Plover was added to the list of the Endangered Species Act, and thanks to the hard work of many, they have begun to recover in many areas. There are three main populations in North America. They are called, The Northern Great Plains, The Great Lakes and The Atlantic Coast. 
135058 135053 135053 Scientists hope to protect the piping plover’s winter home A remote island in the Bahamas is home to dozens of species of native and migratory birds, including one that has been on the endangered species list for decades. CAT WISE: This breathtaking area is home to dozens of species of native and migratory birds, including a small gray shorebird called a piping plover, which has been on the endangered species list in the United States since 1986.
In 1985, it was declared an endangered species by the Committee on the Status of Endangered Wildlife in Canada. A large population in Ontario has disappeared entirely. In 2008, however, piping plover nests were found at Wasaga Beach and near Sauble Beach, Ontario, along the Ontario Great Lakes shores. The piping plover is globally threatened and endangered; it is uncommon and local within its range, and has been listed by the United States as  endangered  in the Great Lakes region and  threatened  in the remainder of its breeding range.
The piping plover (Charadrius melodus) is a small sand-colored, sparrow-sized shorebird that nests and feeds along coastal sand and gravel beaches in North America. The adult has yellow-orange legs, a black band across the forehead from eye to eye, and a black ring around the neck. The piping plover is globally threatened and endangered; it is uncommon and local within its range, and has been listed by the United States as  endangered  in the Great Lakes region and  threatened  in the remainder of its breeding range.
The other two populations are listed as threatened. In the Great Lakes watershed, piping plovers formerly nested throughout much of the north-central United States and south-central Canada on beaches in Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Minnesota, Ohio, Pennsylvania, New York, Wisconsin, and in Ontario, Canada. Habitat Criteria for Piping Plovers In order for the habitat to be biologically and physically suitable for piping plovers the following criteria must be met: Space • Total shoreline length of at least 0.2 km (0.12 miles) of gently sloping sand beach with a total beach area of at least 5 acres.
The piping plover is also listed as endangered in Maine, New Hampshire, New Jersey, Maryland, Indiana, Michigan, Minnesota, Wisconsin, Iowa, Ohio and Pennsylvania. It is threatened in the remainder of its range. 
The Piping Plover, a small, stocky, sandy-colored bird resembling a sandpiper, derives its name from its call notes, or plaintive, bell-like whistles, often heard before the birds are seen. The adult has yellow-orange legs, a black band across the forehead from eye-to-eye, and a black ring around the base of its neck. The Endangered Species Act provides penalties for taking, harassing or harming the piping plover and offers some protection to its habitat. 1  Respect all areas fenced or posted for protection of wildlife. 2  Do not approach or linger near Piping Plovers or their areas. 3  Keep pets on beaches on leashes.
There are 2 subspecies of piping plovers: the eastern population is known as Charadrius melodus melodus and the mid-west population is known as C. m. circumcinctus. The bird's name is derived from its plaintive bell-like whistles which are often heard before the bird is visible. The piping plover is globally threatened and endangered; it is uncommon and local within its range, and has been listed by the United States as  endangered  in the Great Lakes region and  threatened  in the remainder of its breeding range.
Piping Plover (Charadrius melodus). (Federally listed as Endangered). Description: A small shorebird (similar to a sandpiper) about seven inches in length and height. The coloration on the back is a light gray-brown and the breast and belly are white. Reasons for Decline: Piping Plover populations have declined in their nesting range as a result of habitat destruction and alteration due to dam construction and channelization projects along rivers and streams, as well as the draining and filling of shallow wetlands.
The Piping Plover [Charadrius melodus]. Status: A 1986 survey found fewer than 300 piping plovers in Alberta, mostly near Provost, Hanna and Medicine Hat. Since 1985, this species has been considered endangered by the Committee on the Status of Endangered Wildlife in Canada. 