A: If you want to become a pharmacist you should have a PharmD or doctorate of Pharmacy degree. Students should earn a passing score in the Pharmacy college admission test and complete two years of their undergraduate program to enroll in a four year pharmacy program.
Essential Information. Assistant pharmacists, also referred to as pharmacy aides, work with pharmacists and pharmacy technicians in a variety of settings, from retail stores to hospitals. Assistant pharmacists perform administrative duties and work directly with customers to meet their prescription needs.
Aspiring pharmacists must complete at least two years of undergraduate study (not in any specific discipline) before attaining their Doctor of Pharmacy (Pharm.D.) degree from pharmacy school. Pharmacists are also required to obtain licensure by passing the North American Pharmacist Licensure Exam.
Undergraduate Studies. Pharmacy colleges vary in their admission prerequisites, but all require candidates to fulfill some level of undergraduate studies. At a minimum, this consists of two to three years' focused course work; and many schools require a full bachelor's degree.
Pharmacist Qualifications. EducationThe educational qualifications to become a pharmacist begin with at least two to three years of undergraduate study, and sometimes a full bachelors degree, before beginning a Pharm.D. program. As an undergraduate your studies should focus on chemistry, biology, and anatomy.
Before you can work as a pharmacist, you will need to complete a five-year programme of education and training. This includes a four-year Master of Pharmacy (MPharm) degree and a one-year pre-registration training course in a pharmacy.
Assistant pharmacists, also referred to as pharmacy aides, work with pharmacists and pharmacy technicians in a variety of settings, from retail stores to hospitals. Assistant pharmacists perform administrative duties and work directly with customers to meet their prescription needs.
Doctor of Pharmacy. The next step in becoming a pharmacist is acceptance to an accredited pharmacy program. These award a four-year professional doctorate, known as the Doctor of Pharmacy or Pharm.D. degree.