Currently, a Registered Kennel Name is protected in all positions of a dog's name. For example, if the name Bob was a Registered Kennel Name, then the name could not appear anywhere in the name of a dog without the written permission of the owner of that kennel name. Further, a dog or litter cannot be registered with a kennel as its owner unless the kennel name is registered with the AKC
by Sam Ferrigno on Feb 14th, 2013. These are the registered names of the winners of past Westminster Kennel Club Dog Shows. For those of you not familiar with the naming process of show-dogs, it’s a pretty big deal. According to DogChannel.com, the name of a show dog can tell the story of its origins
Kennel names are typically used by the breeder.. If you get a dog from a breeder, they will want their kennel name in front of the dogs name.. For example; Devlin, who I bred, is Rav'nLeigh's Seize the Day Lil, I got from another breeder.. Terbo. So her name is: Terbo Knew Her as Nancy of Rav'nLeigh
The American Kennel Club offers breeders the Registered Kennel Name Program to protect the use of their kennel's name in the naming of AKC registered dogs. For example, if the name Bob was a Registered Kennel Name, then the name could not appear anywhere in the name of a dog without the written permission of the owner of that kennel name.
Do not use the name of a breed or word referring to canine gender in your dog's name. 6. Submit the name for approval by the American Kennel Club. 1  Complete the application for registration form and mail it along with the appropriate fees to the American Kennel Club. How to Choose an AKC Name for Dogs. To register a dog with the American Kennel Club the dog must have an official AKC name. This name will be used if you choose to show the dog. The organization must approve the name you select in order to maintain uniqueness among dogs with a pedigree.
Application for a Registered Kennel Name. Each application for a Registered Kennel Name is considered on its merit. Application data will be verified through AKC records. The granting of a Registered Kennel Name is at the sole discretion of the American Kennel Club. For example, if the name Bob was a Registered Kennel Name, then the name could not appear anywhere in the name of a dog without the written permission of the owner of that kennel name.
Dogs also earn other titles that are usually added as suffixes to the dog's registered name, leading to the saying the A well balanced dog has titles at both ends (of its name.) Examples would be the Kennel Club Agility Warrant, or the American Kennel Club's TD (Tracking Dog) title. 
7. Receive a certificate of registration from the American Kennel Club with your dog's name stated if the name was accepted. 1  The American Kennel Club does not allow duplicate names and will contact you to choose a different name if your choice is not approved. How to Choose an AKC Name for Dogs. To register a dog with the American Kennel Club the dog must have an official AKC name. This name will be used if you choose to show the dog. The organization must approve the name you select in order to maintain uniqueness among dogs with a pedigree.