1 Review. 1 Review. Naloxone is an special narcotic drug that reverses the effects of other narcotic medicines. Naloxone is used to reverse the effects of narcotic drugs used during surgery or to treat pain. Naloxone may also be used to treat narcotic drug overdose or to diagnose narcotic drug addiction. Naloxone may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide.
Last reviewed on RxList 4/29/2015. Narcan (naloxone) is an opioid antagonist and is used for the complete or partial reversal of opioid overdose, including respiratory depression. It is also used for diagnosis of suspected or known acute opioid overdose and also for blood pressure support in septic shock. Narcan is available as a generic termed naloxone. Common side effects of Narcan are flushing, dizziness, tiredness, weakness, nervousness, restlessness, irritability, body aches, diarrhea, stomach pain, nausea, fever, chills, goosebumps, sneezing, shortness of breath, or runny nose.
Pentazocine is sold under several brand names, such as Fortral, Sosegon, Talwin NX (with the μ-antagonist naloxone, will cause withdrawal in opioid dependent persons on injection), Talwin, Talwin PX (without naloxone), Fortwin (Lactate injectable form) and Talacen (with acetaminophen). This compound may exist as one of two enantiomers, named (+)-pentazocine and (−)-pentazocine. (−)-pentazocine is a κ-opioid receptor agonist, while (+)-pentazocine is not, instead displaying a ten-fold greater affinity for the σ receptor.
In this article. A medication called naloxone can reverse the effects of an overdose of heroin or some types of painkillers. Paramedics and emergency room doctors have used it for years to save lives.
Since then, numerous first responders have purchased naloxone kits for use in reversing the effects of a heroin or opioid overdose. Naloxone is a medication that reverses an overdose from heroin or other opioids. It cannot be used to get high and is not addictive. The Naloxone for intra-nasal use is given with a foam tip attached to a syringe that is placed into the nostril.
Naloxone, also known as Narcan among other names, is a medication used to reverse the effects of opioids especially in overdose. Naloxone may be combined within the same pill as an opioid to decrease the risk of misuse. When given intravenously it works within two minutes and when injected into a muscle it works within five minutes. The medication may also be used in the nose. The effects of naloxone last about half an hour to an hour. Multiple doses may be required as the duration of action of most opioids is greater than that of naloxon
Parents testified at an open meeting called by the FDA to consider whether the lifesaving antidote to opioid overdose — a non-addictive, non-toxic drug called naloxone (Narcan) — should be made available over-the-counter, so that everyone can keep it in their first aid kit, just in case. It found that 10,000 overdose reversals have been reported. (MORE: Whitney Houston’s Death: Hallmarks of a Battle With Addiction and Overdose). Since 1996, when Dan Bigg of the Chicago Recovery Alliance started the first naloxone-distribution program in the nation, the drug has been given to more than 50,000 people.
Nineteen (76.0%) of the 25 states with 2008 drug overdose death rates higher than the median and nine (69.2%) of the 13 states in the highest quartile (1) did not have a community-based opioid overdose prevention program that distributed naloxone (Figure 2). In this analysis, the majority (76.0%) of the 25 states with 2008 age-adjusted drug overdose death rates higher than the median did not have a community-based opioid overdose prevention program that distributed naloxone.
While access to naloxone (narcan) won t solve the opioid abuse/misuse problem, it will save lives. Naloxone (narcan) is the antidote to an opioid overdose. Medical professionals have used this safe medication for decades to reverse overdoses. The first naloxone distribution programs began in the US in 1996. As of June 2014, the CDC reported that the 644 naloxone distribution programs in existence had reversed over 26,000 overdoses. At present, 30 states have some sort of narcan law.
Naloxone was patented in 1961 by Jack Fishman, Mozes J. Lewenstein, and the company Sankyo. The drug was approved for opioid overdose by Food and Drug Administration in 1971. Naloxone may be combined within the same pill as an opioid to decrease the risk of misuse. When given intravenously it works within two minutes and when injected into a muscle it works within five minutes. The medication may also be used in the nose. The effects of naloxone last about half an hour to an hour.