Daisy is a feminine given name, commonly thought to be derived from the name of the flower. The flower name comes from the Old English word daegeseage, dægeseage meaning'day s. eye The name Daisy is therefore ultimately derived from this source. Daisy is also a nickname for Margaret, used because Marguerite, the French version of that name, is also a French name for the oxeye daisy. It came into popular use in the late Victorian era along with other flower names.
Daisy Duke is both the main female protagonist and the sex symbol on Dukes of Hazzard. In two episodes Daisy wears a red bikini to distract Cletus and a truck driver. In the 2005 feature film The Dukes of Hazzard, Daisy Duke is portrayed by Jessica Simpson. Film critics were disappointed in Simpson's performance, claiming that her portrayal had little in common with the character Catherine Bach created, and that she was merely cast because of her celebrity status.
Daisy Duke was a character on an old TV show called The Dukes of Hazard. She wore really short shorts, and so now days that's just a nickname that people use for short-shorts. If you were wearing shorts the day he said that, it could have something to do with it. I&#39;m 13(if that matters) So anyways I was talking to my friend that&#39;s a boy, and my other friend walks over and goes, &quot; Oscar, how hav u not even started your work yet?&quot; and he goes &quot; well little miss daisy duke over here was talking to me!&quot; and I kept asking what it...
Daisy Mae Duke was born on the 1st of March 1954, Daisy is a fictional character, played by Catherine Bach, from the American television series The Dukes of Hazzard. In the 2005 feature film The Dukes of Hazzard, Daisy Duke is portrayed by Jessica Simpson. Film critics were disappointed in Simpson's performance, claiming that her portrayal had little in common with the character Catherine Bach created, and that she was merely cast because of her celebrity status.
The flower name comes from the Old English word daegeseage, dægeseage meaning'day s. Eye the Name daisy is therefore ultimately derived from this. Source daisy is also a nickname For, margaret used Because, marguerite The french version of that, name is also A french name for the oxeye. daisy The name Daisy is therefore ultimately derived from this source. Daisy is also a nickname for Margaret, used because Marguerite, the French version of that name, is also a French name for the oxeye daisy. It came into popular use in the late Victorian era along with other flower names.
In the song California girls, she is telling you she is wearing daisy dukes (really short shorts) and a bikini on top. Usually short enough so the bottom of your buttocks can hang out :P bikinis on top = the top part of the bikini, i.e. the part that covers the breasts, like a bra... So they're wearing a bikini, but instead of wearing the bottoms, they have the daisy dukes.
Look up Daisy in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. Daisy is a feminine given name, commonly thought to be derived from the name of the flower. The flower name comes from the Old English word daegeseage, dægeseage meaning'day s. Eye the Name daisy is therefore ultimately derived from this. source The name Daisy is therefore ultimately derived from this source. Daisy is also a nickname for Margaret, used because Marguerite, the French version of that name, is also a French name for the oxeye daisy. It came into popular use in the late Victorian era along with other flower names.
2. Daisy Dukes. Daisy Dukes are extremely short, form-fitting, denim cut-off shorts worn by young women, originally in the American South. They were named after the character Daisy Duke (portrayed by actress Catherine Bach) in the early 1980's American television series, The Dukes of Hazzard. Daisy Dukes. Very tight, very short, buttock revealing denim cut off shorts as worn by Daisy Duke in the Dukes of Hazzard tv show in the eighties. Shit man-look at her Daisy Dukes-they are too ill....I getting a sweat now.
American Meaning: The name Daisy is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Daisy is: The day's eye. English Meaning: The name Daisy is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Daisy is: Day's eye, from the old English. Also a flower name. Also a translation of the French Marguerite, and used as a pet form of Margaret.