Exclusive jurisdiction is an element of the division between the state courts and the federal court. Each part of the courts has exclusive jurisdiction over certain issues; what this means is that only that court can hear certain types of cases. The state where the trial is held is the site of original jurisdiction, and the original jurisdiction is sometimes the site of exclusive jurisdiction. Court proceedings occur at the state and federal level.
Benefits. There are many benefits to giving the courts exclusive jurisdiction over certain types of cases. Cases involving federal crimes and issues of the Constitution should be decided at the federal level, since they are issues that affect all citizens. The state where the trial is held is the site of original jurisdiction, and the original jurisdiction is sometimes the site of exclusive jurisdiction. Court proceedings occur at the state and federal level.
Exclusive Jurisdiction Law & Legal Definition. Exclusive jurisdiction refers to power of a court to adjudicate a case to the exclusion of all other courts. It is the sole forum for determination of a particular type of case. Exclusive jurisdiction is decided on the basis of the subject matter dealt with by a particular court. For example, the U.S. district courts have exclusive jurisdiction on bankruptcy matters [28 USCS ยง 1334].
Paul files a tort case against Dennis in a state trial court. There is no law which gives any court exclusive jurisdiction to hear this type of case. Therefore, the state trial court has subject-matter jurisdiction over this case. 2. Federal district courts are courts of limited jurisdiction. 
(Redirected from Exclusive Jurisdiction). In civil procedure, exclusive jurisdiction exists where one court has the power to adjudicate a case to the exclusion of all other courts. It is the opposite situation from concurrent jurisdiction, in which more than one court may take jurisdiction over the case. For example, 28 U.S.C. ยง 1334 gives the United States district courts exclusive jurisdiction over all matters arising in bankruptcy (with few exceptions). On a Federal level, exclusive jurisdiction allows the Supreme Court to review the decisions in lower courts.
Exclusive jurisdiction is typically defined in terms of subject matter. For example, 28 U.S.C. ยง 1334 gives the United States district courts exclusive jurisdiction over all matters arising in bankruptcy (with few exceptions). On a Federal level, exclusive jurisdiction allows the Supreme Court to review the decisions in lower courts.
Federal courts have exclusive jurisdiction over cases in which the parties are from different states and disputing over more than $75,000. These cases are heard at the federal level due to the diversity of citizenship and amount of money, according to the United States Courts website. The state where the trial is held is the site of original jurisdiction, and the original jurisdiction is sometimes the site of exclusive jurisdiction. Court proceedings occur at the state and federal level.
exclusive jurisdiction-Legal Definition. n. The provision, made in the United States Constitution, in legislation, or in a contract, that a particular court is the sole forum in which a certain type of case may be brought. 
State courts have concurrent jurisdiction in most cases. Federal courts have exclusive jurisdiction in a limited number of cases, such as federal criminal, antitrust, bankruptcy, patent, Copyright, and some admiralty cases, as well as suits against the U.S. government. 