United Arab Emirates, Dirham. The Emirati Dirham is the currency of United Arab Emirates. Our currency rankings show that the most popular United Arab Emirates Dirham exchange rate is the INR to AED rate. The currency code for Dirhams is AED, and the currency symbol is د .إ.Below, you'll find Emirati Dirham rates and a currency converter.
Morocco, Dirham. The Moroccan Dirham is the currency of Morocco. Our currency rankings show that the most popular Morocco Dirham exchange rate is the MAD to EUR rate. The currency code for Dirhams is MAD. Below, you'll find Moroccan Dirham rates and a currency converter
The UAE is not the only country to name its currency the dirham. Morocco also calls its main currency unit the dirham, but rates of exchange to other currencies, such as the US dollar, the pound sterling and the euro are quite different. UAE currency exists in a number of different notes of various values and coins.
The currency of Dubai – indeed, the whole of the United Arab Emirates – is the UAE Dirham. When writing this or reading it, the most common ways of identifying the currency are to prefix the amount in question with the capital letters AED, or to follow the amount given in numbers with the lower case abbreviation “dhs”. Morocco also calls its main currency unit the dirham, but rates of exchange to other currencies, such as the US dollar, the pound sterling and the euro are quite different. UAE currency exists in a number of different notes of various values and coins.
The Dirham is the currency of Dubai and is pegged to the US Dollar at Dh 3.65 to $ 1. If you are a tourist or planning to live in Dubai, it is better to know about the Dubai currency since it is a necessity in shopping or making transactions in the city. Ok enough sentimental talk. Dubai shares the same currency that is used in the rest of the country (as you would expect), the Arab Emirate Dirham or AED. It is called Dirham for short and you will see it abbreviated as either Dhs. or Dh. The dirham has been long pegged (since 1980 I believe) to the US Dollar at Dh.
Currency. The name of the currency in Dubai and the United Arab Emirates is the dirham (AED or Arab Emirate Dirham – also commonly abbreviated to Dhs or DH). There are 100 fils in a dirham. Notes come in denominations of 5, 10, 20, 50, 100, 200, 500 and 1,000 dirhams. 
The UAE dirham (abbreviated to AED or Dhs) is linked to the US$ and is therefore susceptible to the ups and downs of that currency. The UAE dirham (abbreviated to AED or Dhs) is linked to the US$ and is therefore susceptible to the ups and downs of that currency. 1  Share on Facebook. 2  Share on Twitter. 3  Share on LinkedIn. 4  Send. 5  Print.