This results in the death of many beech trees, sometimes within one or two years (Ehrlich 1934). After this, the forest consists of root sprouts and a few large trees; tree mortality is usually lower in this aftermath stage (Faison & Houston 2004). Very good posting regarding the importance of beech and of the impacts of BBD. I especially liked the inclusion of information about how beech trees influence nitrogen cycling and regeneration. Beech is often a “foundation species” in stands in the Great Lakes-St.
The American Beech tree (Fagus grandifolia) is a deciduous hardwood tree, native to eastern North America. Its habitat ranges in Canada from Nova Scotia to southern Ontario, and in the United-States from its western limit of Illinois, south to northern Florida (Forrester, McGee & Mitchel 2003). Very good posting regarding the importance of beech and of the impacts of BBD. I especially liked the inclusion of information about how beech trees influence nitrogen cycling and regeneration. Beech is often a “foundation species” in stands in the Great Lakes-St.
Fagus. The beech is a magnificent large tree with a broad crown, and very smooth greyish bark. There are typically many branches, which may arch downwards. The dark green leaves are oval to elliptical in shape, terminating in a point; they have wavy edges, which are fringed with hairs in young leaves. 
American beech (Fagus grandifolia) is the only species of this genus in North America. Although beech is now confined to the eastern United States (except for the Mexican population) it once extended as far west as California and probably flourished over most of North America before the glacial period (39). Vegetative Reproduction-Beech sprouts well from the stumps of young trees, but this ability diminishes after trees reach 10 cm (4 in) in d.b.h. Sprouts from stumps 25 cm to 38 cm (10 to 15 in) in diameter usually are short lived and do not attain tree stature.
It has a typical lifespan of 150 to 200 years, though sometimes up to 300 years. 30 years are needed to attain full maturity (as compared to 40 for American beech). Like most trees, its form depends on the location: in forest areas, F. sylvatica grows to over 30 m (100 ft), with branches being high up on the trunk. Fagus sylvatica, the European beech or common beech, is a deciduous tree belonging to the beech family Fagaceae.
American beech (Fagus grandifolia Ehrh.) is an important component of the eastern deciduous forests of North America. Canopy beech trees promote soil and forest floor conditions that favor beech regeneration at the expense of competitors such as sugar maple and hemlock. The production of prolific beech sprouts promotes competitive exclusion of other species.
American Beech are fairly large trees, usually up to 80 feet tall. Trunks can grow up to 2 1/2 feet wide. American Beech grow in forests with other trees, such as oaks, pines, and hickories. They can also grow in a pure stand (group of the same type of tree). American Beech flowers are clustered together in a one inch yellow ball. The fruits are about 3/4 inch long and prickly. These fruits split into four pieces in the Fall. The bark of this tree is light gray and smooth. It stays smooth when it gets older.
There is a lot of research out there on the American beech tree concerning the Beech Bark Disease (BBD). This disease has killed many beech trees across North America (Latty, Canham & Marks 2003). Very good posting regarding the importance of beech and of the impacts of BBD. I especially liked the inclusion of information about how beech trees influence nitrogen cycling and regeneration. Beech is often a “foundation species” in stands in the Great Lakes-St.
American Beech (Fagus grandifolia). The American beech is easily recognized even in dense, complex forests by its thin, smooth, light gray bark. Unlike most other hardwood trees, the American beech retains this smooth bark throughout its mature years. The American beech can live for three hundred to four hundred years and can reach heights of eighty feet and diameters in excess of three feet