Onset and Duration. It takes approximately 15 to 45 minutes for caffeine to reach its peak levels in your bloodstream. Caffeine has a half-life of approximately five to six hours, meaning that it takes this long for its concentration in your bloodstream to reduce by half. Physiological Effects. Caffeine's stimulant effect on the central nervous system is dose-dependent; the more caffeine consumed, the stronger the stimulant effect. It blocks a neurotransmitter called adenosine, which is a central nervous system depressant and has a calming, slowing effect on the brain.
As long as caffeine is in your blood, it's effects will also manifest. The time it takes for the body to eliminate one half of a caffeine dose is normally between 3 to 12 hours. It is called the half-life of caffeine. Several factors can shorten or lengthen the half life of caffeine. Smoking, medications and diseases are some factors.
The half-life, which is the time required by the body to metabolize or inactivate 1/2 of a substance activity, for caffeine (doses lower than 4.50mg/lb) ranges from 2.5 to 10hrs. Meaning, caffeine has little to no pharmacological effect after this time but may still be present in small amounts in the body. 
How Long Does Caffeine Stay in the Body? In many instances, caffeine has a half-life around 5 hours (meaning 5 hours is needed to eliminate half the coffee amount). However, it might take longer – for example, a pregnant woman might get caffeine in her system around 20 hours after she ingests it.
What’s extraordinary is that caffeine when injected in the body doesn’t accumulate in one place but is spread through the body. It also varies from man to woman. Scientifically, caffeine resides longer in women’s system than that of men. The average half-life of caffeine in healthy humans persists for 4.9 hours. In men, typically residing between 5 to 9 hours, after the consumption of caffeine. Figures suggest a limited amount of 2-3 cups of coffee every day, and no more than that. That counts to 200 mg to 300 mg of Caffeine. Lest, varying from individual to individual, caffeine stays longer in human system than gauged normally. The longer it stays, the more malicious it gets with respect to your well-being!
Print Version. The half-life, which is the time required by the body to metabolize or inactivate 1/2 of a substance activity, for caffeine (doses lower than 4.50mg/lb) ranges from 2.5 to 10hrs. 
How Long Does Caffeine Stay in the Body? In most cases, caffeine has a half-life of about 5 hours (meaning 5 hours is needed to eliminate half the coffee amount). However, it might take longer – for instance, a pregnant woman might have caffeine in her system up to 20 hours after she ingests it. Between 150 and 200 milligrams is considered safe in most studies, but many doctors recommend pregnant women avoid caffeine altogether. That’s because no matter how long caffeine stays in the body of the mother, it might stay even longer in the baby.
Best Answer: The time it takes for the body to eliminate one half of a caffeine dose is normally between 3 to 12 hours. It is called the half-life of caffeine. Several factors can shorten or lengthen the half life of caffeine. Smoking, medications and diseases are some factors. Pregnant women have higher caffeine half-life, 18 to 20 hours-pretty much longer for the fetus since its organs are not yet fully formed to be able to eliminate caffeine easily. About 99% of the elimination process takes place in the liver. Source(s): http://neutral-izer.blogspot.com/2007/09... nicks606 · 6 years ago.
Advertisement. It only takes 45 minutes for 99% of the caffeine to be absorbed through these membranes. In humans the half-life for caffeine is anywhere from 4 to 6 hours on average, which explains why the average energy drink or coffee’s effect lasts about 4 to 6 hours. 