E-mail. Discuss (0). Dreidel is Yiddish for a spinning top. A dreidel is a pointed, four-sided top which can be made to spin on its pointed base. Dreidels are normally made of plastic or wood, though there are silver or glass designer dreidels  available on the market, usually intended for display purposes. It is customary to play dreidel games on the holiday of Chanukah. 
By Ariela Pelaia. A dreidel is a four-sided spinning top with a Hebrew letter on each side. It is used during Hanukkah to play a popular children's game that involves spinning the dreidel and betting on which Hebrew letter will be showing when the dreidel stops spinning. 1 Hey means halb, which means half in Yiddish. 2  If the dreidel lands with a hey facing up the spinner gets half of the pot. 3  Shin means shtel, which is Yiddish for put in.. 4  Pey means pay.. 5  If the dreidel lands with either a shin or a pey facing up the player adds a game piece to the pot.
Hanukkah (sometimes transliterated Chanukkah) is a Jewish holiday celebrated for eight days and nights. It starts on the 25th of the Jewish month of Kislev, which coincides with late November-late December on the secular calendar. By Ariela Pelaia. Hanukkah (sometimes transliterated Chanukkah) is a Jewish holiday celebrated for eight days and nights. It starts on the 25th of the Jewish month of Kislev, which coincides with late November-late December on the secular calendar. In Hebrew, the word hanukkah means dedication..
Watch more Happy Hanukkah videos: http://www.howcast.com/videos/168055-... The dreidel, the small top that's among the most recognizable symbols of the Hanukkah season, is a fun game of chance to play with friends and family. Step 1: Divide the tokens. Divide the candies, coins, or other betting tokens evenly among the players. Tip. Dole out a minimum of ten tokens per person. 
Dreidel is a traditional game of chance, and one of the most well-known symbols of Hanukkah. The dreidel is a four-sided top with a different Hebrew character on each side. The game dates back at least to the time when the Greek King Antiochus IV (175 BCE) had outlawed Jewish worship. Jews who gathered to study the Torah would play dreidel to fool soldiers into thinking they were just gambling. 1 In Yiddish, the dreidel is also called fargle and varfl.. 2  In Israel, the Hebrew term sevivon (from the root meaning turn around or spin) is used. 3  In one variation of the game, you may match the pot when Shin appears, and put one token in when Nun appears.
The dreidel is a Jewish variant on the teetotum, a gambling toy found in many European cultures. Each side of the dreidel bears a letter of the Hebrew alphabet: נ (Nun), ג (Gimel), ה (He), ש (Shin), which together form the acronym for  נ ס ג דול ה יה ש ם (N es G adol H ayah Sh am – a great miracle happened there). 1 Each player spins the dreidel once during their turn. 2  Depending on which player side is facing up when it stops spinning, they give or take game pieces from the pot: 3  a) If נ (nun) is facing up, the player does nothing. 4  b) If ג (gimel) is facing up, the player gets everything in the pot.
Definition of DREIDEL. 1. : a 4-sided toy marked with Hebrew letters and spun like a top in a game of chance. 2. : a children's game of chance played especially at Hanukkah with a dreidel. 
1 If the dreidel lands with a hey facing up the spinner gets half of the pot. 2  Shin means shtel, which is Yiddish for put in.. 3  Pey means pay.. 4  If the dreidel lands with either a shin or a pey facing up the player adds a game piece to the pot. 1 Hey means halb, which means half in Yiddish. 2  If the dreidel lands with a hey facing up the spinner gets half of the pot. 3  Shin means shtel, which is Yiddish for put in.. 4  Pey means pay.. 5  If the dreidel lands with either a shin or a pey facing up the player adds a game piece to the pot.