When thimerosal is used as preservative in vaccines, it is present in concentrations up to 0.01% (50 micrograms thimerosal per 0.5 mL dose or 25 micrograms mercury per 0.5 mL dose). Since then, thimerosal has a long record of safe and effective use preventing bacterial and fungal contamination of vaccines, with no ill effects established other than minor local reactions at the site of injection. As a vaccine preservative, thimerosal is used in concentrations of 0.003% to 0.01%. A vaccine containing 0.01% thimerosal as a preservative contains 50 micrograms of thimerosal per 0.5 ml dose or approximately 25 micrograms of mercury per 0.5 mL dose. The use of mercury-containing preservatives in vaccines has declined markedly since 1999
Some people have worried that thimerosal, an ethylmercury-containing preservative in some multi-dose preparations of influenza vaccine, could cause mercury poisoning either in children or affect the unborn children of pregnant women who receive this vaccine. But, for many reasons, thimerosal is not harmful. 
The single-dose units are made without thimerosal as a preservative because they are intended to be opened and used only once. Additionally, the live-attenuated version of the vaccine (the nasal spray vaccine), is produced in single-dose units and does not contain thimerosal. The most recent and rigorous scientific research does not support the argument that thimerosal-containing vaccines are harmful. CDC and FDA continually evaluate new scientific information about the safety of vaccines.
Some don't even know that thimerosal is a mercury derivative! A typical dose of thimerosal-containing flu vaccine contains 25 micrograms thimerosal. According to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), the safe limit for human exposure to mercury is 0.1 mcg per kilo of weight per day. It is present in many different vaccines used in the U.S., including the majority of seasonal flu vaccines, although there are a few million doses of thimerosal-free single dose vials of influenza vaccine manufactured by drug companies that are supposed to be reserved for infants and pregnant women.
For the 2015-16 season, manufacturers will produce influenza vaccines containing thimerosal and some vaccines that do not contain thimerosal. Approximately 116 to 118 million doses of thimerosal-free influenza vaccine will be produced for the 2015-2016 flu season. 
Thimerosal is a mercury-containing organic compound (an organomercurial). Since the 1930s, it has been widely used as a preservative in a number of biological and drug products, including many vaccines, to help prevent potentially life threatening contamination with harmful microbes. 1 HibTiITER was also manufactured in thimerosal-preservative containing multidose vials but these were no longer available after 2002. 2 Children 6 months old to less than 3 years of age receive a half-dose of vaccine, i.e., 0.25 mL; children 3 years of age and older receive 0.5 mL.
The majority of influenza vaccines distributed in the United States contain thimerosal as a preservative. However, an increasing amount is thimerosal-free. While the multiple dose vials still have thimerosal to prevent bacterial growth, the single-dose preparations do not. The amount of influenza vaccine that is thimerosal-free is growing every year. 1 Thimerosal contains ethyl mercury. 2  This is a different chemical compound than mercury found in the environment (methylmercury). 3  Thimerosal has been used as a preservative since the 1930s to prevent bacterial growth in vials containing multiple doses of vaccine and other medical products.
Thimerosal is a mercury-based preservative that has been used for decades in the United States in multi-dose vials (vials containing more than one dose) of some vaccines to prevent their contamination with germs, bacteria and fungi. The most recent and rigorous scientific research does not support the argument that thimerosal-containing vaccines are harmful. CDC and FDA continually evaluate new scientific information about the safety of vaccines.