when the food gets digested it goes to small intestine then inside the small intestine there is the villi these absorb the nutrients(carbohydrates,proteins,fats) and then sent … to the blood stream (circulatory system) and in the large intestine the water is absorb and sent to the blood stream. The energy is used by the entire body. The heart also uses it to pump blood around the body. This is the connection between the digestive and circulatory system. The small intestine contains many blood vessels which absorb the nutrients from the food into the blood.
Partially digested food enters the small intestine in liquid form where it is turned into substances that can be used by cells. The blood vessels along the small intestine walls absorb these substances and blood cells are then able to transport these to the body's cells and tissues. The relationship between the circulatory and digestive system is mainly basic-without one, the other cannot function properly. The blood absorbs (takes in) nutrients in the small intestine. The blood help transport these nutrients so that it can be used by the cell tissues in the body.
When food is digested, it is absorbed into the blood from the small intestine walls. From there the blood is drained into the hepatic portal vein. The hepatic portal vein then … goes to the liver. The blood in this vein is very rich in nutrients. The energy is used by the entire body. The heart also uses it to pump blood around the body. This is the connection between the digestive and circulatory system. The small intestine contains many blood vessels which absorb the nutrients from the food into the blood.
After the liver is done, the nutrients, in a correct amount, enter the main blood stream. From here they flow in the blood to the heart. The heart oxygenates this blood and returns it to the circulatory system. Blood flows into arteries and from these into capillaries in the tissues. This brings the blood in contact with the cells. Now, the cells can take up the nutrients
Digestion is the breakdown of large insoluble food molecules into small water-soluble food molecules so that they can be absorbed into the watery blood plasma. In certain organisms, these smaller substances are absorbed through the small intestine into the blood stream. When the chyme is fully digested, it is absorbed into the blood. 95% of absorption of nutrients occurs in the small intestine. Water and minerals are reabsorbed back into the blood in the colon (large intestine) where the pH is slightly acidic about 5.6 ~ 6.9.
The Human Digestive System. In the digestive system, ingested food is converted into a form that can be absorbed into the circulatory system circulatory system,group of organs that transport blood and the substances it carries to and from all parts of the body. Most food, however, is not absorbed in the stomach and passes into the duodenum (first section of the small intestine) in the form of a thick liquid called chyme. Digestive enzymes from the pancreas pancreas, glandular organ that secretes digestive enzymes and hormones.
The circulatory system is the body's transport system. It is made up of a group of organs that transport blood throughout the body. The heart pumps the blood and the arteries and veins transport it. Oxygen-rich blood leaves the left side of the heart and enters the biggest artery, called the aorta. The digestive system is made up of organs that break down food into protein, vitamins, minerals, carbohydrates, and fats, which the body needs for energy, growth, and repair.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. When food is digested, it is absorbed into the blood from the small intestine walls. From there the blood is drained into the hepatic portal vein. The hepatic portal vein then goes to the liver. From here they flow in the blood to the heart. The heart oxygenates this blood and returns it to the circulatory system. Blood flows into arteries and from these into capillaries in the tissues. This brings the blood in contact with the cells.
When your food is being digested and it is in your small intestines and the villi sucks up the nutrients it gives the nutrients to blood vessels which take it to your cells. S … mall intestines and villi are parts of digestive system. Blood vessels and cells are part of circulatory system. 8 people found this useful. The energy is used by the entire body. The heart also uses it to pump blood around the body. This is the connection between the digestive and circulatory system. The small intestine contains many blood vessels which absorb the nutrients from the food into the blood.