The standard definition of scoliosis is a curve of the spinal column to the left or right side of the body, dextroscoliosis is a specific term meaning scoliosis of the spine with a curvature of the spine to the right.
Scoliosis refers to a curvature of the spine when looking at it from the front or the back (A to P, or P to A). This is very important, because the spine has normal curvatures … when viewed from the side. The term scoliosis is used even when the curvature is mild.
Other types of Levoscoliosis. Levoconvex scoliosis or levoscoliosis lumbar spine is a left curvature of the spinal column in the lower back, L1 to L5. Thoracic levoscoliosis is a curve in the upper back, T1 to T12.
This particular curve, a levoconvex scoliosis of the thoracolumbar spine, runs from the low back area, maybe from the area where your belt would cross your low back (or lumbar spine) up to the mid-back, which is the area of your back that have ribs (or thoracic spine).
In the right thoracic scoliosis there may also be a counter curve to the left in the lumbar (lower back) region, but this is a less severe curve. B. Left lumbar Scoliosis indicates that the major curve is to the left and is concentrated in the lumbar region.
The standard definition of scoliosis is the curvature of the spine in one direction or another. Levoscoliosis is the curvature of the spine to the left side of the body. Levoscoliosis has the same signs and symptoms as the classical scoliosis, but due to the location of the heart there are added health concerns due to with the left curvature in the thoracic spine (midback).
Scoliosis refers to a curvature of the spine when looking at it from the front or the back (A to P, or P to A). This is very important, because the spine has normal curvatures when viewed from the side.
Answer Answer. This is a medical term that simply means: A slight twist of the lower spine to the. left while. Answers.com-What does gentle levoconvex lumbar curve mean / Answer Answer. Mild disc desiccation throughout the lumbar spine. In 2008 my Lumbar findings are-Levoconvex Scoliosis.
MRI: There is a mild levoconvex scoliosis present. There is some minimal disc degeneration seen at the l2-3, l3-4, and l4-5 levels, with both narrowing and desiccation of the L5-S1 disc present. incidental note made of a rudimentary s1-2 disc.