Tobin's q is the ratio between a physical asset's market value and its replacement value. It was introduced in 1968 by James Tobin and William Brainard, although the use of the letter q did not appear until Tobin's 1969 article A general equilibrium approach to monetary theory. Tobin (1969) writes. 
DEFINITION of 'Economic Value Added-EVA'. A measure of a company's financial performance based on the residual wealth calculated by deducting cost of capital from its operating profit (adjusted for taxes on a cash basis). (Also referred to as economic profit.). The formula for calculating EVA is as follows:
Economic value added (EVA) is a measure of a company's economic profit, which is the profit earned by a company minus the ... A measure of a company's financial performance based on the residual wealth calculated by deducting cost of capital from its operating profit (adjusted for taxes on a cash basis). (Also referred to as economic profit.). The formula for calculating EVA is as follows:
EVA isinfluenced by all company's decisions such asdecisions related to investment, dividing of profit,rate of capital return and decisions related to financeand cost of capital ratio. As an internal measure,operation measurement at the company's successhelps in the best manner the investment value ofstock holders. 
The difference between economic value added (EVA) and producer surplus is that EVA measures the returns of a company above ... A measure of a company's financial performance based on the residual wealth calculated by deducting cost of capital from its operating profit (adjusted for taxes on a cash basis). (Also referred to as economic profit.). The formula for calculating EVA is as follows:
In corporate finance, Economic Value Added (EVA), is an estimate of a firm's economic profit – being the value created in excess of the required return of the company's investors (being shareholders and debt holders). Quite simply, EVA is the profit earned by the firm less the cost of financing the firm's capital. The idea is that value is created when the return on the firm's economic capital employed is greater than the cost of that capital. This amount can be determined by making adjustments to GAAP accounting. EVA = (r-c) × capital [the spread method, or excess return method]. where: NOPAT is profits derived from a company’s operations after cash taxes but before financing costs and non-cash bookkeeping entries. It is the total pool of profits available to provide a cash return to those who provide capital to the firm.
Economic value added is the incremental difference in the rate of return over a company's cost of capital. In essence, it is the value generated from funds invested in a business. If the economic value added measurement turns out to be negative, this means a business is destroying value on the funds invested in it. To calculate economic value added, determine the difference between the actual rate of return on assets and the cost of capital, and multiply this difference by the net investment in the business. Additional details regarding the calculation are:
By Investopedia AAA |. A: Economic value added (EVA) is a measure of a company's economic profit, which is the profit earned by a company minus the cost of financing the company's capital. Accounting profit is also known as net income and is a company's revenue minus all of its explicit costs. EVA is an internal management performance measure used to calculate true shareholder value. Unlike net income, EVA is used to measure the amount of a company's returns in excess of its cost of capital.
Economic value added (EVA) is a method of measuring the financial performance of an enterprise. The EVA is calculated by multiplying the enterprise's capital by its cost of capital and deducting the resulting figure from the net operating profit after tax (NOPAT). This indicator can determine if the enterprise is really creating wealth. In looking at how EVA relates to financial ratio analysis, this aim of measuring economic profit is important. The cost of capital is the annual return required by the lenders and shareholders of the enterprise in return for providing the capital.