Mitral valve prolapse (MVP) occurs when the valve between your heart's left upper chamber (left atrium) and the left lower chamber (left ventricle) doesn't close properly. During mitral valve prolapse, the leaflets of the mitral valve bulge (prolapse) upward or back into the left atrium as the heart contracts. Mitral (MY-trul) valve prolapse sometimes leads to blood leaking backward into the left atrium, a condition called mitral valve regurgitation.
Although mitral valve prolapse is usually a lifelong disorder, many people with this condition never have symptoms. When diagnosed, people may be surprised to learn that they have a heart condition. 
1 Mitral valve prolapse (mitral valve prolapse) is the most common heart valve abnormality. 2  Most patients with mitral valve prolapse have no symptoms and require no treatment. 3  Mitral valve prolapse can be associated with fatigue and/or palpitations. When MVP does cause signs and symptoms, they may include: 1  Palpitations (feelings that your heart is skipping a beat, fluttering, or beating too hard or too fast). 2  Shortness of breath. 3  Cough. 4  Fatigue (tiredness), dizziness, or anxiety. 5  Migraine headaches. 6  Chest discomfort.
If you have symptoms with mitral valve prolapse, it can cause anxiety about your heart and the severity of your valve disease. However, most people with MVP need only endocarditis prevention and yearly follow-up appointments. No further treatment is needed. 
Mitral valve prolapse is a common cause of a heart murmur caused by a leaky heart valve. Most cases of mitral valve prolapse are not serious and only need to be monitored. Mitral valve prolapse is associated with many other symptoms and conditions. Most people with mitral valve prolapse have no symptoms. They also never experience any health problems due to mitral valve prolapse. Chest pain is the most frequent symptom in people who have symptoms with mitral valve prolapse. The chest pain may be very bothersome and frightening, but it does not increase the risk of heart attack, death, or other heart problems. Mitral valve prolapse is the most common cause of mitral regurgitation
Most people who have mitral valve prolapse (MVP) aren't affected by the condition. They don't have any symptoms or major mitral valve backflow. When MVP does cause signs and symptoms, they may include: 1  Palpitations (feelings that your heart is skipping a beat, fluttering, or beating too hard or too fast). 2  Shortness of breath. 3  Cough. 4  Fatigue (tiredness), dizziness, or anxiety. 5  Migraine headaches. 6  Chest discomfort.
Most people with mitral valve prolapse have no symptoms. They also never experience any health problems due to mitral valve prolapse. Chest pain is the most frequent symptom in people who have symptoms with mitral valve prolapse. Mitral valve prolapse is the most common cause of mitral regurgitation. That's a condition in which some blood flows backward through the mitral valve with each heartbeat. Over years, moderate or severe mitral regurgitation can cause weakness of the heart muscle, known as congestive heart failure.
Symptoms, which in some cases may be related to leaking of the mitral valve, can include: 1  Chest pain (not caused by coronary artery disease or a heart attack). 2  Dizziness. 3  Fatigue. 4  Sensation of feeling the heart beat (palpitations). 5  Shortness of breath with activity or when lying flat (orthopnea). 
Most people who have mitral valve prolapse (MVP) don't need treatment because they don't have symptoms and complications. Even people who do have symptoms may not need treatment. The presence of symptoms doesn't always mean that the backflow of blood through the valve is significant. 