So we got the chicken in the rotisserie now. The last thing we have to do is literally set the timer on here. Now for chicken inside of this particular rotisserie it's only 15 minutes per pound. So will go over here to the settings and put it in for one hour because our chicken is 4 pounds. So it's set for one hour, go ahead we put the window up we set it for one hour
To cook a 4 pound chicken in a rotisserie at a temperature of 350  degrees Fahrenheit can take nearly two hours. However, you should  use a meat thermometer to check that th … e internal temperature of  the chicken is about 165 degrees Fahrenheit. You cook a 1.5 kilogram chicken in a rotisserie for 1 1/2 hours.  You should then let the chicken rest for 15 minutes before you cut  it. Edit. Share to: 1  Bird in Hand: How to Cook a Rotisserie Chicken There are few things that can compare to chicken when it comes to nutrition and variety.
A large chicken could even take about 2 hours to fully get roasted. The general thumb rule for preparing roast chicken is a cooking time of about 20 minutes for every pound of meat and another 10 to 20 minutes at a temperature of 350 degrees F in the oven. 
1 Place the chicken onto a rotisserie and set the grill on high. 2  Cook for 10 minutes. 3  During that time, quickly mix together the butter, 1 tablespoon of salt, paprika and pepper. 4  Turn the grill down to medium and baste the chicken with the butter mixture. 
You should cook a thawed out 7 pound chicken in a rotisserie for at  least 2 to 3 hours. If the chicken is frozen this will take longer. You cook a 1.5 kilogram chicken in a rotisserie for 1 1/2 hours.  You should then let the chicken rest for 15 minutes before you cut  it. Edit. Share to: 1  Bird in Hand: How to Cook a Rotisserie Chicken There are few things that can compare to chicken when it comes to nutrition and variety.
You would cook a 4.5 pound chicken on a rotisserie for about 2 and  a half hours. The temperature should be around 300-350 degrees  Fahrenheit. You cook a 1.5 kilogram chicken in a rotisserie for 1 1/2 hours.  You should then let the chicken rest for 15 minutes before you cut  it. Edit. Share to: 1  Bird in Hand: How to Cook a Rotisserie Chicken There are few things that can compare to chicken when it comes to nutrition and variety.
The general rule-of-thumb is 15 minutes per POUND, so I would do a 5-lb chicken for an hour and a 1/4 to an hour and a 1/2 on normal rotation. If done (breast internal temp is175-deg F), but not brown enough use pause-to-sear (pause directly in front of heating element for 2-4 minutes). Katrina L · 7 years ago. 
Photo Credit: Regarding BBQ Inc. At a cooking temperature between 300 and 350 degrees F, it takes a chicken about 20 to 30 minutes per pound to cook. A 4 pound chicken should take nearly 2 hours. When the internal temperature of the chicken reaches 175 to 180 degree F, it is time to take it off the heat. 
To cook a 4 pound chicken in a rotisserie at a temperature of 350  degrees Fahrenheit can take nearly two hours. However, you should  use a meat thermometer to check that th … e internal temperature of  the chicken is about 165 degrees Fahrenheit. The length of time to  cook rotisserie chicken is about 20 to 30 minute per pound of meat. You should cook a thawed out 7 pound chicken in a rotisserie for at  least 2 to 3 hours. If the chicken is frozen this will take longer.