1 Gas-Producing Foods: Vegetables The sugars in some vegetables can lead to intestinal gas as they’re digested. 2  Onions and artichokes contain fructose, a type of sugar, while another sugar, raffinose, is found in asparagus, brussels sprouts, broccoli, and cabbage, among others. Vegetables that have soluble fiber, like peas, can cause gas as they’re digested in the large intestine. Those with insoluble fiber should pass through without discomfort or excessive gas. 1  Gas-Producing Foods: Fruits Some fruits contain another sugar, called sorbitol, which causes
I love onions & don't want to give them up. I read what you said about beans and stomach gas. If I drain off the soaking water for beans I cook myself or rinse canned beans, I don't have any problems with them. However, onions do cause me problems the next day. It also can be an onion substitute for people who can't do onions (like me). The Japanese sea vegetable kombu is also recommended for stomach gas-if you can figure out what to do with it. Mostly I've used it in soup stocks. You can also add it when cooking beans.
Onions. Another vegetable that can cause gas and digestive problems are onions. They contain high levels of fructans such as inulin and fructooligosaccharides. While considered a prebiotic, fructans can cause gastrointestinal issues for many people, including bloating, excessive gas and even IBS. Similarly, vegetables like onions and mushrooms usually only cause flatulence in larger amounts. Artichokes though do seem to have strong gas producing effects even at smaller servings and it takes a strong digestive tract to handle them.
1 Onions and artichokes contain fructose, a type of sugar, while another sugar, raffinose, is found in asparagus, brussels sprouts, broccoli, and cabbage, among others. 2  Vegetables that have soluble fiber, like peas, can cause gas as they’re digested in the large intestine. Those with insoluble fiber should pass through without discomfort or excessive gas. 1  Gas-Producing Foods: Fruits Some fruits contain another sugar, called sorbitol, which causes excessive gas.
Most people know that beans, broccoli, and onions can cause gas, but what most people don't suspect are fruits, sodas, and milk. Fructose (a sugar found in fruits and sodas) and lactose (a sugar found in dairy products) are common causes of gas, bloating, abdominal cramps, and diarrhea. 
When you eat, your digestive system works to break down food into usable energy to power the cells and the body's many processes and functions. But your gut finds certain foods too difficult to break down into just energy and waste, and gas is the leftover product when those foods sit in your colon. Food and Flatulence: Why Gas Happens. It's natural to experience gas. Your body releases it as a byproduct of undigested foods through burping and flatulence up to two dozen times a day. But if you sometimes experience painful or excessive gas, chances are your diet is the culprit.
Gas Production. Onions are a gas-producing vegetable, like broccoli, Brussels sprouts and artichoke. Eating onions causes the formation of gas in your digestive tract, which can make you belch, bloat, feel discomfort in your stomach, and have flatulence. You may take some over-the-counter digestive enzymes to help you better digest onions and prevent the formation of gas and other unpleasant symptoms. 
The sugars in some vegetables can lead to intestinal gas as they’re digested. Onions and artichokes contain fructose, a type of sugar, while another sugar, raffinose, is found in asparagus, brussels sprouts, broccoli, and cabbage, among others. Vegetables that have soluble fiber, like peas, can cause gas as they’re digested in the large intestine. Those with insoluble fiber should pass through without discomfort or excessive gas. 1  Gas-Producing Foods: Fruits Some fruits contain another sugar, called sorbitol, which causes
1 Gas-Producing Foods: Fruits Some fruits contain another sugar, called sorbitol, which causes excessive gas. 2  The biggest culprits include prunes, apples, peaches, and pears. 3  Sugar-free gum and candy are sweetened with sorbitol, which is why they can lead to excessive gas, too. Vegetables that have soluble fiber, like peas, can cause gas as they’re digested in the large intestine. Those with insoluble fiber should pass through without discomfort or excessive gas. 1 
Raw garlic and onions contain lots of fiber that can cause gas, and onions contain a natural type of sugar called fructose that causes gas, according to ClevelandClinic.com, which recommends discussing your diet with your doctor, since the amount of gas produced by foods varies from person to person. You may experience gas and the flatulence associated with it from eating onions and garlic, says the Linus Pauling Institute, and eating raw onions and garlic may lead to more gas than eating cooked onions and garlic.