Kinematics is the branch of classical mechanics which describes the motion of points, bodies (objects), and systems of bodies (groups of objects) without consideration of the causes of motion. Kinematic analysis is the process of measuring the kinematic quantities used to describe motion. In engineering, for instance, kinematic analysis may be used to find the range of movement for a given mechanism, and, working in reverse, kinematic synthesis designs a mechanism for a desired range of motion.
Kinematics is the geometry of pure motion-motion considered abstractly, without reference to force or mass. Engineers use kinematics in machine design. 
Kinematics is used in astrophysics to describe the motion of celestial bodies and systems, and in mechanical engineering, robotics, and biomechanics to describe the motion of systems composed of joined parts (multi-link systems) such as an engine, a robotic arm or the skeleton of the human body. Kinematic analysis is the process of measuring the kinematic quantities used to describe motion. In engineering, for instance, kinematic analysis may be used to find the range of movement for a given mechanism, and, working in reverse, kinematic synthesis designs a mechanism for a desired range of motion.
Medical Definition of KINEMATICS. 1. : a branch of physics that deals with aspects of motion apart from considerations of mass and force. 2. — ki·ne·mat·ic \-ik\ or ki·ne·mat·i·cal \-i-kəl\ adjective. — ki·ne·mat·i·cal·ly \-i-k(ə-)lē\ adverb. Definition of KINEMATICS. : a branch of dynamics that deals with aspects of motion apart from considerations of mass and force. — ki·ne·mat·ic \-tik\ or ki·ne·mat·i·cal \-ti-kəl\ adjective.
Kinematics as a field of study is often referred to as the geometry of motion. For further details, see Analytical dynamics. To describe motion, kinematics studies the trajectories of points, lines, other geometric objects, and their differential properties such as velocity and acceleration. Kinematic analysis is the process of measuring the kinematic quantities used to describe motion. In engineering, for instance, kinematic analysis may be used to find the range of movement for a given mechanism, and, working in reverse, kinematic synthesis designs a mechanism for a desired range of motion.
kinematics. see dynamics dynamics,branch of mechanics that deals with the motion of objects; it may be further divided into kinematics, the study of motion without regard to the forces producing it, and kinetics, the study of the forces that produce or change motion...... Click the link for more information. .
Kinetics vs Kinematics. Kinetics and kinematics are two words in the study of motion and the forces that are involved in these motions that confuse a lot of people. The situation becomes confusing because these two words are similar sounding, and also because both of them are involved in the study of motion. However, while kinetics study the motion and the forces that are underlying this motion, kinematics is solely focused on the study of motion and does not take into account any forces that may be acting upon the body in motion.
The main problems in kinematics of compound motions are the determination of the relations between the kinematic characteristics of the absolute and relative motions of a point (or a body) and the motion characteristics of the system of relative coordinates (that is, the motion of transport). see dynamics dynamics,branch of mechanics that deals with the motion of objects; it may be further divided into kinematics, the study of motion without regard to the forces producing it, and kinetics, the study of the forces that produce or change motion...... Click the link for more information. .