More About Muslim Name: Zain. Could you give me the meaning of my name NADIYA and my brothers name SIBTAIN, thank you. Zain means gem of Allah. Porophet muhamds nawasa was named zain. My name is Zane and I am Muslim. Zane is Arabic and is also spelled as Zain, Zein, Zaane etc.. Zain Name also appears in following Origin(s): Muslim, Hebrew, Arabic, English, Egyptian. Zain also appears in following countries/origins/languages: American, Arabic, Hindu, Malaysian, Pashtun.
i think zayn maliks dad comes from Karachi. Some part of his family come for Pakistan or The Caribbean. He also came from Bradford, West Yorkshire; i met him cause im from Bradford too and he came to the HMV near my house :D.
Zain Zayn Javadd Malik (born January 12, 1993), is a former member of One Direction. He left the band on March 25, 2015, to pursue a solo music career. He was born to British-Pakistani father Yaser Malik and English mother Patricia. He has one older sister, Doniya, and two younger sisters, Waliyha and Safaa. He and his family are Muslim. Zayn grew up in East Bowling, located south of the Bradford city centre.
Here are pictures of people with the name Zain. Help us put a face to the name by uploading your pictures to BabyNames.com! 
Zayn was born in West Lane, Baildon, Bradford, England. He is of English and Pakistani descent. He was born to British-Pakistani father Yaser Malik and English mother Patricia. He has one older sister, Doniya, and two younger sisters, Waliyha and Safaa. He and his family are Muslim. Zayn grew up in East Bowling, located south of the Bradford city centre.
Zane /zane/ [1 syll.] as a boys' name is pronounced zayne. It is of Hebrew origin, and the meaning of Zane is God is gracious. Possibly a variant of Hebrew John, or a variant of a Scandinavian surname. Western writer Zane Grey. Zane is a somewhat prominent first name for males (#820 out of 1220, Top 67%) and an even more prominent surname for both adults and children (#10665 out of 150436, Top 7%). (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the birth name popularity of Zane for boys
There are four members in the London-based English-Irish pop boy band One Direction: Niall James Horan, Liam James Payne, Harry Edward Styles, and Louis William Tomlinson. Zain Javadd Zayn Malik was a member until he announced his departure from the band on 25 March 2015. 
Please use this list of Muslim baby names only for reference/idea to name your kid/child. Database of baby names has been compiled from various references and suggestions provided by our web site visitors and resources partners. Meaning of Zain in Muslim origin/culture for Boy name with history and fame details. Zain Name also appears in following Origin(s): Muslim, Hebrew, Arabic, English, Egyptian. Zain also appears in following countries/origins/languages: American, Arabic, Hindu, Malaysian, Pashtun.
English Meaning: The name Zain is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Zain is: or John. American Meaning: The name Zain is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Zain is: or John. Muslim Meaning: The name Zain is a Muslim baby name. In Muslim the meaning of the name Zain is: Beauty. Pretty.