Measuring the Mix. Use 4 ounces of plain, low-fat yogurt, a cup of skim milk and a medium banana, and your smoothie will have 259 calories. Swap the skim milk for almond milk, and you'll save 23 calories. But if you use whole milk, the calories in your smoothie increase by 66. Depending on the ingredients, they can also be high in calories. You can make a basic banana smoothie with yogurt, milk and banana, or add other ingredients to increase the nutrient content and vary the flavor. Choose low-fat versions of dairy products to limit the saturated fat and calories in your smoothie.
RE: how many calories do u think are in a homemade banana smoothie using 1 banana and strawberries and ice? does anyone know any low cal simple banana smoothie recipies? if so plzz leave ingredients. I just had one! I used 1 banana, 1 cup frozen blueberries, 1/2 cup diced plum, 3 ice cubs, 3 tablespoons plain yogurt and about half a cup of skim milk. Just zip it up and it's awesome. I'd say it has about 150 calories, more if you sweeten it with a tablespoon of honey
Smoothies Under 250 Calories. Smoothie joints can pack 400 calories in a 20-ounce cup. Here's how to downsize while getting lots of fresh fruit and flavor. By Sidney Fry, MS, RD.
HerleneThomas 1 year. My morning smoothie is 100 calories...1/2 banana 1/2 cup of strawberries 1/2 of spinach and 1/4 cup of almond milk unsweetened. My morning smoothie is 100 calories...1/2 banana 1/2 cup of strawberries 1/2 of spinach and 1/4 cup of almond milk unsweetened. Latest Fitness. When you're trying to lose weight, nutritionists recommend a smoothie stays between 300 and 400 calories, so take a peek at the breakdown below, do a little math, and find out just how many calories are in your go-to smoothie.
Smoothies can be a healthy breakfast or snack food. Depending on the ingredients, they can also be high in calories. You can make a basic banana smoothie with yogurt, milk and banana, or add other ingredients to increase the nutrient content and vary the flavor. Choose low-fat versions of dairy products to limit the saturated fat and calories in your smoothie.
Smoothies Under 250 Calories. Smoothie joints can pack 400 calories in a 20-ounce cup. Here's how to downsize while getting lots of fresh fruit and flavor. By Sidney Fry, MS, RD.
At one national drink chain, a high-protein banana smoothie has about 315 calories in a 20-ounce serving, which is equivalent to 2 1/2 cups. But, you could make a smoothie of the same size at home with one medium banana, 6 ounces of nonfat, plain Greek yogurt, cold water and crushed ice for just 205 calories. Every banana smoothie has just one ingredient in common – the fruit – so there’s plenty of room for variation. That means it’s hard to predict how many calories are in your drink.