He is the result of Kryptonian genetic engineering gone awry. In . The Death of Superman  comic storyline in which he first appeared, Doomsday mysteriously bashed his way out of a metallic holding cell miles underground, dug his way up, and began senselessly killing and destroying everything he saw. He easily defeated the justice league before confronting Superman. Doomsday is the only one in main comics continuity to ever kill Superman; and he did so simply by beating the man of steel to death. Doomsday was killed in the battle, as well, but later healed himself and returned to life, stronger than before.
Doomsday is a fictional supervillain appearing in American comic books published by DC Comics, commonly in association with Superman. Doomsday made a cameo appearance in Superman: The Man of Steel #17 (November 1992) and made his first full appearance in Superman: The Man of Steel #18 (December 1992). Doomsday returned to carve a new path of destruction throughout the DC Universe. His journey started in the Steel one-shot and continued into Outsiders #37, Justice League of America #55, Superman/Batman Annual #5, Superboy #6 and into the milestone Action Comics #900.
In Smallville, we meet Doomsday's human form, Davis Bloome, for the first time. He is a Metropolis paramedic who frequently experiences blackouts, during which he transforms into Doomsday. This Doomsday was created by General Zod and Faora. He was a combination of Kryptonian Monsters only found on Krypton. He easily defeated the justice league before confronting Superman. Doomsday is the only one in main comics continuity to ever kill Superman; and he did so simply by beating the man of steel to death. Doomsday was killed in the battle, as well, but later healed himself and returned to life, stronger than before.
When LexCorps accidentally unleash a murderous creature, Doomsday, Superman meets his greatest challenge as a champion. Based on the The Death of Superman storyline that appeared in DC Comics' publications in the 1990s. Aspects of the four false Supermen (Superboy, the Eradicator, Cyborg Superman, and Steel) were combined to form the clone Superman (Superboy was a clone, the Eradicator killed criminals, and Cyborg Superman attempted to convince everyone he was the genuine article).
1 Later, Doomsday was used by the alternate Superman in his attack on Metropolis when people began to rebel against his rule and was defeated by the Prime Superman. 2  The Prime Superman claims that 'Doomsday is not today' and throws Doomsday into the Phantom Zone. Doomsday returned to carve a new path of destruction throughout the DC Universe. His journey started in the Steel one-shot and continued into Outsiders #37, Justice League of America #55, Superman/Batman Annual #5, Superboy #6 and into the milestone Action Comics #900.
1 In his first appearance Doomsday fights the Justice Lords (a tyrannical version of the Justice League from a parallel universe), and is lobotomized by the alternate-universe Superman's heat vision. 2  Doomsday's brain regenerates, and Dr. Achilles Milo, a Project Cadmus member, releases Doomsday to kill Amanda Waller. Superman once remarked on Doomsday, We've been fighting all day and Doomsday doesn't seem to have slowed down. Superhuman Speed & Reflexes: Most surprising are his reflexes and speed for his size. In a matter of seconds, Doomsday managed to render most of the Justice League incapable of fighting.
Doomsday as he apears in Superman: Doomsday. In the animated film Superman: Doomsday, Doomsday's story is a bit different, Doomsday was created to be the Ulitmate soldier, but it's creaters came to realize it couldn't distinguish between friend and foe, this meant that Doomsday would see every one as an enemy. He easily defeated the justice league before confronting Superman. Doomsday is the only one in main comics continuity to ever kill Superman; and he did so simply by beating the man of steel to death. Doomsday was killed in the battle, as well, but later healed himself and returned to life, stronger than before.
Doomsday kills the entire digging crew and begins a bloody rampage towards Metropolis. He kills a deer, a dog, the dog's owner, and a truck driver (it is implied that other people fell victim to his homicidal fury, as well.) Superman meets the monster there and the two engage in a devastating cross-city battle. Parts of the fight between Superman and Doomsday were cut entirely as well as the off screen suggestives. In fact, no actual punches between the human combatants were shown, nor were Doomsday's blows whenever they struck Superman. It received a TV-PG DSV rating for its Toonami rating and a parental advisory warning.
It is shown that Doomsday's skeleton was retrieved and his flesh regrown by Lex Luthor (by using Superman's Kryptonian DNA), who handed Doomsday over to Darkseid (Luthor's aide in the retrieval, repair, and improvement of Doomsday) to repay Earth's war debt to Apokolips. Superman once remarked on Doomsday, We've been fighting all day and Doomsday doesn't seem to have slowed down. Superhuman Speed & Reflexes: Most surprising are his reflexes and speed for his size. In a matter of seconds, Doomsday managed to render most of the Justice League incapable of fighting.