There is a control for the freezer and the refrigerator. Some models have a display with the actual temperatures while others have a display showing single digit numbers. Units with single digit displays use 0 to shut off the system and 9 as the coolest setting. Press and release either the Warmer or Colder pad on the refrigerator temperature control panel. The LED Set light will illuminate, and the display will show the temperature setting instead of the actual temperature. Tap either the Warmer or Colder pad with your finger until you reach the desired setting. Allow five seconds for the display to return to the actual temperature. Repeat the process for the freezer control. Close the refrigerator door and allow 24 hours for the GE Profile Arctica to reach the newly set temperatures
The temperature controls for the GE are set in the factory for 37 degrees Fahrenheit for the fridge and 0 degrees Fahrenheit for the freezer. You can change the refrigerator temperature within a range of 34 to 46 degrees Fahrenheit and the freezer temperature between -6 and 8 degrees Fahrenheit. Plug the fridge back into the wall. Open the GE fridge and check the temperature readout for the fridge and freezer by pressing Home and Refrigerator and Home and Freezer.. They should be set back to 37 and 0 degrees Fahrenheit, respectively.
This feature is not available right now. Please try again later. This video explains how to adjust the temperature controls on side-by-side refrigerators that have a digital display showing the actual temperature on the exterior of the freezer door. (Actual Temp on the control panel.) Learn more at http://www.geappliances.com. 1  Science & Technology. 
T o change the temperature, press and release the WARMER or COLDER pad. The SET light will come on and the display will show the set temperature. To change the temperature, tap either the WARMER or COLDER pad until the desired temperature is displayed. Several adjustments may be required. Each time you adjust controls, allow 24 hours for the refrigerator to reach the temperature you have set. All I ask of you is to please rate me with one of the top 3 ratings. If there is anything else I can help you with today just let me know.
The more food you have in your refrigerator, the more stable the temperature will be. Set the thermostat to the middle of its range and leave it for 12 to 24 hours. Adjusting Side-bySide Refrigerator Temp Controls – Knobs. Adjusting Bottom Freezer Refrigerator Temp Controls – Knobs. If the dial is numbered 1 to 5 set it on 3, if the dial is numbered 1 to 9, then set at 4. USUALLY the higher the number on the temp control dial, the colder the temperature your refrigerator will get. If your drinks and food are not as cold as you like, set the temperature dial up one number higher.
If the refrigerator is running, but not cooling at all or is not cold enough, several factors may influence the temperature. Check the following: First, check the temperature control settings: 1  For Dial or Digital Readout Models, adjust your temperature control by one number higher for a cooler temperature setting. If this is a new unit: 1  Allow about 24 hours for the unit to cool down and stabilize after initial installation. 2  If 24 has passed and and the controls have been set properly but the unit is still warm, you may need to schedule service. 3  Schedule a service appointment on-line.
2. Place the thermometer inside a glass of water, and put the glass on your refrigerator's middle shelf. 3. Check the temperature on the appliance thermometer after 5 to 8 hours. The temperature should register between 38 F and 40 F (2 C to 4 C) for safe food storage. Look to the right and left of the dial. Next to cooler or warmer you may see a series of numbers. Dialing 1 number in the cooler direction will drop your refrigerator temp slightly lower, while dialing 1 number in the warmer direction will dial your refrigerator temp slightly higher.
Refrigerator temperatures can be adjusted between 34°F and 44°F and the freezer temperatures can be adjusted between –6°F and +6°F. Once the desired temperature has been set, the temperature display will return to the actual refrigerator and freezer temperatures after 5 seconds. Several adjustments may be required. Each time you adjust controls, allow 24 hours for the refrigerator to reach the temperature you have set. All I ask of you is to please rate me with one of the top 3 ratings. If there is anything else I can help you with today just let me know.