Their popularity rose when their single  Lovefool , from the album First Band on the Moon (1996), was included in the soundtrack to the 1996 film version of Romeo + Juliet. Other singles included  Erase/Rewind  and  My Favourite Game  from the album Gran Turismo (1998). During thе band's first break Nina Persson released an album as A Camp, and Peter Svensson and Bengt Lagerberg worked on the project Paus with help from Joakim Berg from Kent, and Magnus Sveningsson recorded as Righteous Boy.
The Cardigans. Dear, I fear we're facing a problem. you love me no longer, I know. and maybe there is nothing that I can do. to make you do. Mama tells me I shouldn't bother. that I ought to stick to another man. a man that surely deserves me. but I think you do! So I cry, I pray and I beg. 
After their success with Life, The Cardigans signed to Mercury Records, under which they released First Band on the Moon worldwide in 1996.  Lovefool  was a hit worldwide, particularly in the US and Japan, where the album reached platinum status in three weeks. During thе band's first break Nina Persson released an album as A Camp, and Peter Svensson and Bengt Lagerberg worked on the project Paus with help from Joakim Berg from Kent, and Magnus Sveningsson recorded as Righteous Boy.
The Cardigans belong in the Mastiff Group, where their ancestors can be traced back to mountain Tibetan wolf types. Cardigans began as scent hounds brought to the county of Cardiganshire, Wales by the Celts from central Europe as early as 1200 BC. In weight, the ideal Cardigan dog weight should not exceed 38 pounds and the Cardigan bitch s should not exceed 34 pounds. But in the Pembrokes, the dog s weight should not exceed 30 pounds and bitch s should not exceed 25. A lot of weight differences have to do with the fact that Cardigans are bigger boned.
See this page in: Dutch. A ccording to the Bible, all humans on earth today are descended from Noah and his wife, his three sons and their wives, and before that from Adam and Eve (Genesis 1-11). But today we have many different groups, often called “races,” with what seem to be greatly differing features. Remember, whenever we speak of different “colors” we are referring to different shades of the one color, melanin. If a person from a very black people group marries someone from a very white group, their offspring (called mulattos) are mid-brown.
B i o g r a p h y (by Allmusic) One of the most pleasing pop groups of the '90s, the Cardigans specialized in sugary confections that would grow annoying very quickly if they weren't backed by solid musicianship and clever arrangements. B i o g r a p h y (by Allmusic). O 
A major difference in the Pembroke and Cardigan Corgis is their ancestry. They come from different blood lines. In Richard Alice Fienne s The Natural History of Dogs, he describes four groups of dog descendants: The Mastiff Group, the Dingo Group, the Greyhound Group, and the Northern Group. In weight, the ideal Cardigan dog weight should not exceed 38 pounds and the Cardigan bitch s should not exceed 34 pounds. But in the Pembrokes, the dog s weight should not exceed 30 pounds and bitch s should not exceed 25. A lot of weight differences have to do with the fact that Cardigans are bigger boned.
For other uses of the word Cardigan, see Cardigan. The Cardigans are a Swedish rock band formed in Joenkoeping, Jönköping, sweden in, 1992 by Guitarist Peter, svensson Bassist Magnus, sveningsson Drummer Bengt, lagerberg Keyboardist-Lars Olof johansson and lead Singer Nina, persson with the-line up remaining unchanged to this. day During thе band's first break Nina Persson released an album as A Camp, and Peter Svensson and Bengt Lagerberg worked on the project Paus with help from Joakim Berg from Kent, and Magnus Sveningsson recorded as Righteous Boy.
A cardigan is a type of knitted garment that has an open front. Commonly cardigans have buttons: a garment that is tied is instead considered a robe. A more modern version of the garment has no buttons and hangs open by design. By contrast, a pullover does not open in front but must be pulled over the head to be worn. It may be machine-or hand-knitted.