King Duncan is a fictional character in Shakespeare 's Macbeth. He is the father of two youthful sons (Malcolm and Donalbain), and the victim of a well-plotted regicide in a power grab by his trusted captain Macbeth. 
Lady Macbeth is a character in Shakespeare 's Macbeth (c.1603–1607). She is the wife to the play's protagonist, Macbeth, a Scottish nobleman. After goading him into committing regicide, she becomes Queen of Scotland, but later suffers pangs of guilt for her part in the crime. Her fifth act sleepwalking scene is a turning point in the play, and her line, Out, damned spot!, has become a phrase familiar to many speakers of the English language. The report of her death late in the fifth act provides the inspiration for Macbeth's  Tomorrow and tomorrow and tomorrow  speech.
Lady Macbeth is a powerful presence in the play, most notably in the first two acts. Following the murder of King Duncan, however, her role in the plot diminishes. Her fifth act sleepwalking scene is a turning point in the play, and her line, Out, damned spot!, has become a phrase familiar to many speakers of the English language. The report of her death late in the fifth act provides the inspiration for Macbeth's  Tomorrow and tomorrow and tomorrow  speech.
Shakespeare's Lady Macbeth appears to be a composite of two personages found in the account of King Duff and in the account of King Duncan in Holinshed's Chronicles (1587). Her fifth act sleepwalking scene is a turning point in the play, and her line, Out, damned spot!, has become a phrase familiar to many speakers of the English language. The report of her death late in the fifth act provides the inspiration for Macbeth's  Tomorrow and tomorrow and tomorrow  speech.
Power is a theme used by Shakespeare throughout the play Macbeth. The plot involves Macbeth trying to gain more power. Lady Macbeth tries to convince Macbeth to kill Duncan so that he will become king in his place. Macbeth also is persuaded to kill anyone who threatens his chances of being king, including Banquo. Lady Macbeth is the dominant partner at the beginning of the play, she persuades Macbeth to achieve his goal, and she plans the murder of Duncan. Lady Macbeth takes the role of the dominant partner in the beginning of the play, by acting as the real power behind the throne.
Throughout Shakespeare’s play, Macbeth, Lady Macbeth proves herself to be the real power behind the throne. She is the dominant partner at the beginning of the play, she persuades Macbeth to achieve his goal, and she plans the murder of Duncan. Lady Macbeth is the dominant partner at the beginning of the play, she persuades Macbeth to achieve his goal, and she plans the murder of Duncan. Lady Macbeth takes the role of the dominant partner in the beginning of the play, by acting as
Events, characters and language are all closely related. So I'll explain how an event contributes to characterization and then explain how language furthers those ideas. There are a number of characters in the play, but here I'll focus on Macbeth and Lady Macbeth. Once Macbeth is King, Lady Macbeth is the queen. The potential power she has is obvious; she is emotionally and physically close to Macbeth, thus able to influence his decisions. Before Macbeth became king, he had to assassinate King Duncan.
Lady Macbeth's power is excercised by indirection, through her husband--and she steadily loses that power after Duncan's death, fading into a lonely, guilt-ridden, and finally suicidal melancholy. Lady Macbeth: women and power. Lady Macbeth's advice to her husband: look like the innocent flower, / But be the serpent under't (1.5.65-66). Lady Macbeth is a sinister figure: at the very outset she deliberately tries to suppress her feminine qualities in order to excercise power* 
Duncan announces that he will spend one night of a royal procession at Macbeth’s castle. Lady Macbeth, who is even more ambitious than her husband, sees Duncan’s visit as a perfect opportunity for Macbeth to become king. She determines that he should murder Duncan and usurp the throne. That night there is much feasting in the castle. Scottish general Macbeth is told by a trio of witches that he will become Thane of Cawdor and then King of Scotland. King Duncan names Macbeth Thane of Cawdor. At Lady Macbeth’s prompting, Macbeth kills Duncan then murders and frames the servants.