Find out more about ITIL. ITIL is a widely accepted approach to IT Service Management (ITSM), which has been adopted by individuals and organizations across the world. ITIL provides a cohesive set of best practice, drawn from the public and private sectors internationally
ITIL 速 is a best-practice methodology for IT service management (ITSM), which that focuses on the end user rather than technology. It is the most widely adopted approach for ITSM in the world, and is used by organizations including Disney, NASA, HSBC, HP, and the IRS. Read on for an introduction to ITIL and the ITIL books, tools, qualifications, and training options available. Although they are integrated, ITIL and the ISO20000 series serve different purposes. The ISO20000 series primarily provides an independent best-practice standard that is suitable for independent third-party certification audits. The purpose of ITIL is to provide advice on best practices in IT service management.
ITIL, formerly an acronym for Information Technology Infrastructure Library, is a set of practices for IT Service Management (ITSM) that focuses on aligning IT services with the needs of business. Following the passing an APMG/EXIn exam in IT service management (based on ITIL), some people will wear a metal pin on their shirt or jacket. This badge, provided by the ITSMF with basic gold color is set in the form of the ITIL-logo. The ITIL pins consist of a small, diamond-like structure.
ITIL is an acronym used for Information Technology Infrastructure Library. ITIL is a string of references (books and courses), which summarizes top procedures for IT (information technology) management. Over a thousand of organizations situated from different parts of the world utilize the ITIL. As a result, ITIL has been an excellent reference used by departments involved in IT
ITIL describes processes, procedures, tasks, and checklists which are not organization-specific, but can be applied by an organization for establishing integration with the organization's strategy, delivering value, and maintaining a minimum level of competency. Following the passing an APMG/EXIn exam in IT service management (based on ITIL), some people will wear a metal pin on their shirt or jacket. This badge, provided by the ITSMF with basic gold color is set in the form of the ITIL-logo. The ITIL pins consist of a small, diamond-like structure.
ITIL is a series of documents, originally created by the Office of Government Commerce, a governmental department in United Kingdom. These are used to help implement an efficient framework for IT Service Management (ITSM). 
ITIL is best practice in IT Service Management, developed by OGC (Office of Government Commerce) and supported by publications, qualifications and an international user group. ITIL is intended to assist organizations to develop a framework for IT Service Management. Worldwide, ITIL is the most widely used best practice for IT Service Management. Current editions of the ITIL library can be purchased in print or CD format or as an intranet license.
IT Process Wiki-the ITIL速 Wiki: This Wiki is about the IT Infrastructure Library ITIL速 (ITIL 2011, ITIL V3 & V2), ISO 20000 and IT Service Management (ITSM). It is intended to promote more widespread use of Best Practices by IT professionals. The ITIL Wiki was started in 2007; it is available in English, German: ITIL-Wiki auf Deutsch and Spanish: Wiki de ITIL en espanol. Espa単ol what you will find: 1  Here introductory information on THE It Infrastructure (LIBRARY). 2  Itil reference material ON, ITIL It Service management AND iso.  20000