View 30 days of exchange rate history for the Australian Dollar against the Russian Ruble. 90 Day Graph. View 90 days of exchange rate history for the Australian Dollar against the Russian Ruble. 180 Day Graph. View 180 days of exchange rate history for the Australian Dollar against the Russian Ruble. Monthly Average Graph. View average monthly exchange rate history for the Australian Dollar against the Russian Ruble. Invert graph. The graph currently shows historical exchange rates for Australian Dollars per 1 Russian Ruble. Invert the graph to see Russian Rubles per 1 Australian Dollar.
The Russian Ruble is also known as the Russian Rouble. The symbol for RUB can be written R. The Russian Ruble is divided into 100 kopecks. The exchange rate for the Russian Ruble was last updated on October 9, 2015 from The International Monetary Fund. The RUB conversion factor has 6 significant digits.
AUD. Australian Dollar. FACT 1: The currency of Australia is the Australian Dollar. It's code is AUD and the symbol is $. According to our data, AUD to USD is the most popular Aussie Dollar exchange rate conversion.
FACT 1: The currency of Russia is the Russian Ruble. It’s code is RUB & it's symbol is руб. According to our data, USD to RUB is the most popular Russian Ruble exchange rate conversion. FACT 2: The most popular banknotes used in Russia are: руб50, руб100, руб500, руб1000, руб5000. It's used in: Russia, Tajikistan, Abkhazia & South Ossetia. Australian Dollar. FACT 1: The currency of Australia is the Australian Dollar. It's code is AUD and the symbol is $. According to our data, AUD to USD is the most popular Aussie Dollar
The Russian Ruble is the currency in Russian Federation (RU, RUS, Russia). The Russian Ruble is also known as the Russian Rouble. The symbol for AUD can be written A$, Au$, $Au, Aud$, $Aud, Aus$, and $Aus. The symbol for RUB can be written R. The Australian Dollar is divided into 100 cents. The Russian Ruble is divided into 100 kopecks. The exchange rate for the Australian Dollar was last updated on October 20, 2015 from The International Monetary Fund. The exchange rate for the Russian Ruble was last updated on October 20, 2015 from The International Monetary Fund. The AUD conversion factor has 6 significant digit
This Australian Dollar and Russian Ruble convertor is up to date with exchange rates from October 21, 2015. Enter the amount to be converted in the box to the left of Australian Dollar. Use Swap currencies to make Russian Ruble the default currency. The symbol for RUB can be written R. The Australian Dollar is divided into 100 cents. The Russian Ruble is divided into 100 kopecks. The exchange rate for the Australian Dollar was last updated on October 20, 2015 from The International Monetary Fund.