The difference? Ginger beer is actually brewed and fermented while ginger ale is essentially a carbonated beverage made from water and ginger. Ginger beer often has much more of a gingery flavor and because it's fermented, is less carbonated. My favorite brands are the unfiltered ginger beers like Seattle's fantastic Rachel's Ginger Beer-it is slightly cloudy and has an unprecedented ginger flavor.
Ginger ale is a softdrink made up of ginger History Ginger ales come in two varieties: golden ginger ale and dry ginger ale. Golden ginger ale, dark colored and strong flavored, is the older style. Directions: Boil down the ginger in water for 10 minutes. Strain out ginger pieces and pour ginger juice into jar. Add vanilla and lemon flavorings and stevia. Let cool and store in refrigerator as a syrup concentrate. Add 1/8 - 1/4 cup of syrup to 6-8 oz of sparkling water and serve.
A ginger bug is a culture of beneficial bacteria made from fresh ginger root and sugar. It is similar to a sourdough starter for bread or a kombucha scoby for making kombucha. The ginger imparts its flavor and as it naturally ferments, creates a mixture of beneficial bacteria. 
Golden ginger ale is mainly consumed as a carbonated drink and a ginger beer alternative and not as a mixer like dry ginger ale is often used. Dry ginger ale is often used as a club soda alternative, especially mixing it with alcoholic beverages. The golden style is closer to the ginger beer original, and is credited to the American Doctor Thomas Cantrell. The dry style (also called the pale style) is a paler drink with a much milder ginger flavour, and was created by Canadian John McLaughlin.
Ginger beer is carbonated, sweetened beverage produced in two versions: alcoholic brewed ginger beer (which includes home-brewed) or a carbonated soft drink flavored primarily with ginger and sweetened with sugar or artificial sweeteners. The Ginger beer plant (GBP) is not what is usually considered a plant but a composite organism consisting of a fungus, the yeast Saccharomyces florentinus (formerly S. pyriformis), and the bacterium Lactobacillus hilgardii (formerly Brevibacterium vermiforme), which form a symbiotic colony of bacteria and yeast.
Dr. Thomas Cantrell, an American apothecary and surgeon, claimed to have invented ginger ale in Belfast, Northern Ireland and marketed it with local beverage manufacturer Grattan and Company. The golden style is closer to the ginger beer original, and is credited to the American Doctor Thomas Cantrell. The dry style (also called the pale style) is a paler drink with a much milder ginger flavour, and was created by Canadian John McLaughlin.
Today, ginger beer is usually produced as a soft drink. Ginger beer and ginger ale as soft drinks have been moderately popular in many parts of the world since they were introduced. The similarities and differences between ginger ale and ginger beer are discussed in the history section of the ginger ale article. The Ginger beer plant (GBP) is not what is usually considered a plant but a composite organism consisting of a fungus, the yeast Saccharomyces florentinus (formerly S. pyriformis), and the bacterium Lactobacillus hilgardii (formerly Brevibacterium vermiforme), which form a symbiotic colony of bacteria and yeast.
Ginger ale is a carbonated soft drink flavoured with ginger in one of two ways. The golden style is closer to the ginger beer original, and is credited to the American Doctor Thomas Cantrell. The dry style (also called the pale style) is a paler drink with a much milder ginger flavour, and was created by Canadian John McLaughlin.
Report Abuse. ginger hence ginger ale Syrup concentrate for the ale: * 3 1/2 cups water * 4-inch long piece of ginger, peeled & chopped * 2 Tbsp vanilla flavoring * 3 tsp lemon flavoring (non-alcoholic) * 1/2 tsp stevia powder (or to taste) Serving the Ale: * 1 cup sparkling water or club soda per serving. Directions: Boil down the ginger in water for 10 minutes. Strain out ginger pieces and pour ginger juice into jar. Add vanilla and lemon flavorings and stevia. Let cool and store in refrigerator as a syrup concentrate. Add 1/8 - 1/4 cup of syrup to 6-8 oz of sparkling water and serve.
1 Make a wort for your ginger ale by placing 3 cups of the water, minced ginger root, sugar (and molasses if needed), and salt in a saucepan and bringing to a boil. 2  Simmer the mixture for about five minutes until sugar is dissolved and mixture starts to smell like ginger. 3  Remove from heat and add additional water. This natural recipe for ginger ale uses fresh ginger and a cultured ginger mixture (called a ginger bug) to create a naturally fermented and naturally fizzy ginger ale.