1 A provider can collect no more than the Medicare approved amount for such services. 2  The limiting charge is 115% of the Medicare allowed amount for services performed by nonparticipating physicians, i.e., 95% of the fee schedule for participating physicians. 1 A provider who violates the limiting charge is subject to assessments of up to $10,000 per violation plus triple the amount of the charges in violation, and possible exclusion from the Medicare program.
Therefore, to calculate the Medicare limiting charge for a physician service for a locality, multiply the fee schedule amount by a factor of 1.0925. The result is the Medicare limiting charge for that service for that locality to which the fee schedule amount applies. Limiting charge information can be found using the Medicare Physician Fee Schedule Search Tool (Calculator).
Medicare establishes a limiting charge for each service and providers receive a listing of the limiting charges with the fee schedule amounts published each year. The Medicare fee schedule amount is what Medicare allows for services provided to Medicare patients. The limiting charge is 115 percent of the Medicare fee schedule amount for non-participants. On a non-assigned claim, the provider may not bill and collect from anyone (including Medigap and supplemental insurance) an amount over the limiting charge, regardless of who is responsible for payment.
1 The charge for the service is the amount of the limiting charge violation. 2  The submission of a non-assigned physician fee schedule service with a charge in excess of the Medicare limiting charge amount constitutes a violation of the limiting charge. 1 A provider who violates the limiting charge is subject to assessments of up to $10,000 per violation plus triple the amount of the charges in violation, and possible exclusion from the Medicare program.
The Medicare limiting charge is set by law at 115 percent of the payment amount for the service furnished by the nonparticipating physician. However, the law sets the payment amount for nonparticipating physicians at 95 percent of the payment amount for participating physicians (i.e., the fee schedule amount). Calculating 95 percent of 115 percent of an amount is equivalent to multiplying the amount by a factor of 1.0925 (or 109.25 percent). Therefore, to calculate the Medicare limiting charge for a physician service for a locality, multiply the fee schedule amount by a factor of 1.0925. The result is the Medicare limiting charge for that service for that locality to which the fee schedule amount applies
Medicare limiting charges. | Print |. ISSUE SUMMARY. This resolution reaffirms Resolution 08-16. Medicare currently limits the amount of a fee that a physician can charge for any procedure to a limiting charge for non-participating physicians or an allowable amount for participating physicians. Removal of the limiting charge provision would allow non-participating physicians to charge and collect from patients fees above the amount set by the Medicare fee schedule, thereby making the last dollar negotiable between the physician and the patient.
Limiting charge. In Original Medicare, the highest amount of money you can be charged for a covered service by doctors and other health care suppliers who don't accept assignment. The limiting charge is 15% over Medicare's approved amount. The limiting charge only applies to certain services and doesn't apply to supplies or equipment
1 The limiting charge is 115% of the Medicare allowed amount for services performed by nonparticipating physicians, i.e., 95% of the fee schedule for participating physicians. 1 A provider who violates the limiting charge is subject to assessments of up to $10,000 per violation plus triple the amount of the charges in violation, and possible exclusion from the Medicare program.