A guide to Mundic Block. Many properties in the South West of England are built from concrete blocks laid onto mass concrete foundations. The main reason for the use of concrete blocks in this area is that suitable raw materials to form and mould conventional red clay bricks were not available. Preliminary Screening Test. The screening test involves making a number of 50 mm diameter drill holes where a “core” is taken from the external walls, samples of foundations and, where accessible, internal walls and the chimney. These are examined in a laboratory and determine the category as below:-. 1  Class A-Sound concrete satisfactory condition
A guide to Mundic Block. Last updated: 21/10/2015. Many properties in the South West of England are built from concrete blocks laid onto mass concrete foundations. The main reason for the use of concrete blocks in this area is that suitable raw materials to form and mould conventional red clay bricks were not available. Preliminary Screening Test. The screening test involves making a number of 50 mm diameter drill holes where a “core” is taken from the external walls, samples of foundations and, where accessible, internal walls and the chimney. These are examined in a laboratory and determine the category as below:-. 1  Class A-Sound concrete satisfactory condition
In particular the term relates to concrete where the aggregate used was a mining, or a processing waste. Such materials are frequently rich in sulphide minerals and in particular pyrite (frequently known as fools gold), from which the Cornish word Mundic is taken. 
In most cases, the presence of Mundic materials cannot be identified visually and the building may show no obvious signs of distress. For this reason a mundic Test or full concrete screening test by an experienced specialist is the only way of identifying whether or not the property is affected. The mundic test involves 2 parts: Part 1 – The initial or Preliminary Test – Under the supervision of a qualified Surveyor, the Preliminary Screening Assessment consists of taking on average, 8 -12 core samples from the property.
For more details, see copper extraction. Mundic once referred to pyrite, but has now adopted the wider meaning of concrete deterioration caused by oxidisation of pyrites within the aggregate (usually originating from mine waste). However, the notes contain advice that testing may be required where there are visual or other signs of mundic decay. Testing leads to a classification of A, A/B, B and C. A is sound, A/B is sound (but may require re-inspection at a later date) and C is unsound.
Mundic was used from the 1690s to describe a copper ore that began to be smelted at Bristol and elsewhere in southwestern Britain. However, the notes contain advice that testing may be required where there are visual or other signs of mundic decay. Testing leads to a classification of A, A/B, B and C. A is sound, A/B is sound (but may require re-inspection at a later date) and C is unsound.
– Consult an expert in the field of Mundic and instruct a full concrete screening test. If the property will be financed, by way of a mortgage or loan (or any type of mortgage), then the lender will almost certainly insist on a Mundic test anyway. The mundic test involves 2 parts: Part 1 – The initial or Preliminary Test – Under the supervision of a qualified Surveyor, the Preliminary Screening Assessment consists of taking on average, 8 -12 core samples from the property.
TESTING SERVICES. “Mundic” concrete (found in Cornwall and Devon) was made with unstable aggregates from old mine waste tips. Some minerals in this waste, mainly sulphides like iron pyrites, can oxidize, decompose and expand to an extent that can disintegrate the concrete and trigger major structural damage. Mundic screening will identify any potentially unstable aggregates and ascertain the stability of the concrete.
“Mundic” is a term that covers a range of potential housing problems that occur in the southwest as a result of the incorporation of reactive aggregates in concrete. These aggregates are normally mining wastes used in the construction of buildings prior to 1950; and 1960 in parts of west Devon. 