Earth’s magnetic field is the planet’s only protection against harmful radiation from the sun and interstellar sources. It shrouds the Earth based on how it is generated at the earth’s core which is not uniform in shape (depicted above). It surrounds Earth upwards to 40,000 miles in space. Earth’s magnetic field is generated at its core, but these individual field lines are not uniform as seen in the computer simulation above. Thus the magnetic field around the Earth is not uniform and changes as it is generated within the core.
The Earth's magnetic field is generated in the fluid outer core by a self-exciting dynamo process. Electrical currents flowing in the slowly moving molten iron generate the magnetic field. In addition to sources in the Earth's core the magnetic field observable at the Earth's surface has sources in the crust and in the ionosphere and magnetosphere.
Photo credit: US Department of Energy. Earth’s magnetic field is generated by an interaction between rotation in the planet’s core and electrical currents. The field then creates the magnetosphere, which acts sort of like a force field, protecting the planet from the brunt of the sun's solar wind
Earth's magnetic field, also known as the geomagnetic field, is the magnetic field that extends from the Earth 's interior to where it meets the solar wind, a stream of charged particles emanating from the Sun. Its magnitude at the Earth's surface ranges from 25 to 65 microteslas (0.25 to 0.65 gauss). Roughly speaking it is the field of a magnetic dipole currently tilted at an angle of about 10 degrees with respect to Earth's rotational axis, as if there were a bar magnet placed at that angle at the center of the Earth.
It is similar to a bar magnet. The magnetic field in a bar magnet is generated by the coordinated spins of electrons and nuclei within the atoms. The earth's core is hotter than 1043° K, and at this temperature the orientations of spins within the iron become randomized, due to which it loses its magnetic field. The Earth's magnetic field is generated by the electric currents flowing in the slowly moving molten iron. Hence, it can trap charged particles such as electrons and protons, and force them to execute a spiraling motion back and forth along the field lines.
Earth's magnetic field (and the surface magnetic field) is approximately a magnetic dipole, with the magnetic field South pole near the Earth's geographic north pole (see Magn … etic North Pole) and the other magnetic field N pole near the Earth's geographic south pole (see Magnetic South Pole). 
Our planet’s magnetic field is believed to be generated deep down in the Earth’s core. Nobody has ever taken the mythical journey to the centre of the Earth, but by studying the way shockwaves from earthquakes travel through the planet, physicists have been able to work out its likely structure. 
The magnetic field is generated at the earth’s core which starts about 1,800 miles (2,897 km) beneath its surface with the molten outer core. The outer core – which is made mostly of iron with some nickel — is about 1,400 miles (2,253 km) thick and swirls around the solid inner core. Earth’s magnetic field is generated at its core, but these individual field lines are not uniform as seen in the computer simulation above. Thus the magnetic field around the Earth is not uniform and changes as it is generated within the core.
1- The Earth's magnetic field is generated by: a-salty water moving through the deep parts of the crust. b-convection currents in the asthenosphere. c-movement of iron and electrical currents in the Earth's outer core. d-Aligned magnetic minerals within the Earth's inner core. 