Growing hibiscus indoors allows you to show off these bright, tropical flowers in your home from spring to fall. This evergreen hibiscus shrub has upright branches densely covered with glossy, dark-green ovate leaves.
Hibiscus, also known as rose of China, is a tropical plant with glossy leaves and distinctive, vividly colored flowers that can be pink, red, yellow, orange or snowy white. Hibiscus plants are well-suited to life as houseplants.
Fertilizer. To encourage the hibiscus to bloom indoors, use the correct fertilizer in the correct amount at the right time. Too much nitrogen in the fertilizer will cause an abundance of green foliage at the expense of flowers. Too much phosphorus may cause the buds to drop.
If you live in an area that is too cold in winter for outdoor hibiscus, another option is to move hibiscus outdoors to patios or balconies during the warm months and indoors for winter. Attending to the specific needs of your hibiscus will encourage it to grow healthy and strong, even inside.
Hibiscus Flowers Indoors in Winter in a Sunny South Window. Tropical hibiscus are not just for warm, sunny, southern souls! Northerners and people in colder climates grow them indoors with different, but equally spectacular results. Canadians and Northern Europeans have been growing hibiscus indoors for decades.
An evergreen shrub with abundant flowers, hibiscus is most often planted as a shrub in outdoor landscaping. It is possible to grow hibiscus in containers indoors if you have a spot that receives full sunlight for at least six to eight hours a day.
Thankfully, the tropical hibiscus (Hibiscus rosa sinensis) only looks fussy and will bloom indoors if given the proper care. Although hibiscus plants grown outdoors tend to bloom big – with some flowers up to 6 inches in diameter -- you’ll get smaller flowers when you grow the plant in a pot indoors.
Hibiscus like the conditions that appeal to people thus these tropical plants are well suited to be grown indoors. Growing hibiscus in pots is not too difficult if you follow a few simple rules. Potted hibiscus can become very old, forty years or more is not that rare.