Nilos have been producing metal seals for roller bearings, the NILOS ring, for more than 60 years. The NILOS ring is the ideal solution for your sealing problem. Agencies in more than 30 countries ensure a high availability of our products.
JV. A NILOS-Ring that seals the outer roller bearing ring is described as a type AV. Description: An “externally-sealing” NILOS-Ring for a single-row 6410 AV deep groove ball bearing is described as type “6410 AV”.
The seal for a Nilos Ring is obtained when the leading edge of the seal, rotating under slight pressure, laps the surface of the inner or outer bearing ring. This lapping process creates the sealing surface which keeps grease in and contaminants out of the bearing.
In design work the types of NILOS-Rings that seal the inner roller bearing ring should be used if at all possible. For preference, use the corresponding NILOS-Rings of type JV. Description: An “internally-sealing“ NILOS-Ring for a single-row 6410 deep groove ball bearing is described as type “6410 JV”.
Nilos rings come in 10 styles depending on whether the ring will be used to seal against the outer ring of an open, sealed or shielded bearing or the inner ring of an open, sealed or shielded bearing. There are also Nilos rings for applications in which taper roller bearings are used.
Application Note: NILOS Spacer Rings can be used with all NILOS-Ring types for inner or outer sealing except Series 618, 619 and AK rings. The material is a form of die-cast zinc. the usable temperature range under heavy loading is 100º C maximum.
A Nilos ring is an external metal bearing seal that produces a small labyrinth like sealing surface on the inner or outer ring of a bearing. When mounted in pairs, the bearing is sealed for life.
Introduction NILOS-RING. The NILOS-Ring. The NILOS ring is the ideal solution for your sealing problem: 1  Sturdy, low-wear metal seal for extreme application conditions. 2  Can be used in virtually any existing structure due to its low overall height. 3  Considerable increase in service life.
Designed to keep dirt, dust, debris and other abrasive contaminants out of ball and roller bearings, all-metal NILOS-Rings help extend bearing uptime in the harshest operating environments and industries.