Pottery originated before the Neolithic period, with ceramic objects like the Gravettian culture Venus of Dolni Dolní věstonice figurine discovered in The Czech republic date back 29,000–25,000 25000, bc and pottery vessels that were discovered In, Jiangxi, china which date back 20,000 20000. bc The earliest forms of pottery were made from clays that were fired at low temperatures in pit-fires or in open bonfires. They were hand formed and undecorated. Because the biscuit form of earthenware is porous, it has limited utility for storage of liquids.
A ceramic is an inorganic, nonmetallic solid material comprising metal, nonmetal or metalloid atoms primarily held in ionic and covalent bonds. The crystallinity of ceramic materials ranges from highly oriented to semi-crystalline, and often completely amorphous (e.g., glasses). 1 High-tech ceramic is used in watchmaking for producing watch cases. 2  The material is valued by watchmakers for its light weight, scratch resistance, durability and smooth touch. 3  IWC is one of the brands that initiated the use of ceramic in watchmaking.
The word  ceramic comes from the Greek word κεραμικός (keramikos), of pottery or for pottery, from κέραμος (keramos), potter's clay, tile, pottery. The earliest known mention of the root ceram- is the Mycenaean Greek ke-ra-me-we, workers of ceramics, written in Linear B syllabic script. 1 High-tech ceramic is used in watchmaking for producing watch cases. 2  The material is valued by watchmakers for its light weight, scratch resistance, durability and smooth touch. 3  IWC is one of the brands that initiated the use of ceramic in watchmaking.
What Craft and Fine Artists Do. Craft and fine artists use a variety of materials and techniques to create art for sale and exhibition. Craft artists create handmade objects, such as pottery, glassware, textiles or other objects that are designed to be functional. Fine artists, including painters, sculptors, and illustrators, create original works of art for their aesthetic value, rather than for a functional one. 
All clay is a ceramic material, but there are other ceramic materials, as well. Glazes are also ceramic materials, because they permanently change during firing. Industrial ceramics include a range of materials such as silica carbide and zirconium oxide. Technically, ceramics are those things made from materials which are permanently changed when heated. For example, clay has chemically-bonded water in it which will cause it to slake down (disintegrate) when a dried clay object is put in water.
1 Emerson Creek Ceramic Pottery-- Pottery made in the Blue Ridge Mountains of Virginia using organic design. 2  Shop here for dinnerware, bakeware, kitchenware and home decor that is safe and lovely to use. 3  American Art Clay Company-- Equipment and supplies for pottery, ceramics, enameling and crafts since 1919. 1 Ceramics Made Easy-- Our purpose here is to provide informational articles and projects to meet the needs of anyone interested in the area of clay and fired arts. 2  Whether you are a beginner or a professional ceramist, this website is geared for you and your continued success with your chosen art form.
Pottery is the ceramic material which makes up potterywares, of which major types include earthenware, stoneware and porcelain. The place where such wares are made is also called a pottery (plural potteries). Pottery also refers to the art or craft of a potter or the manufacture of pottery. A dictionary definition is simply objects of fired clays. The earliest forms of pottery were made from clays that were fired at low temperatures in pit-fires or in open bonfires. They were hand formed and undecorated. Because the biscuit form of earthenware is porous, it has limited utility for storage of liquids.
1. (Ceramics) a hard brittle material made by firing clay and similar substances. 2. (Ceramics) an object made from such a material. adj. 3. (Ceramics) of, relating to, or made from a ceramic: this vase is ceramic. 4. (Ceramics) of or relating to ceramics: ceramic arts and crafts. [C19: from Greek keramikos, from keramos potter's clay, pottery]. (səˈraem səˈræm). ɪk. adj ce•ram•ic. 1. of or pertaining to products made from clay and similar materials, as pottery and brick, or to their manufacture. 2. ceramic material. keramikos = keramikós(keram) kéram' os + -potters-clay ]. , ikos-Ic earthenware pottery made from clay is called ceramic. or
Pottery is generally considered to be containers made from clay. Pot is a term used for any number of container forms. Both words derive from the Old English potian, to push. When we consider how the potter pushes as they throw the clay on the wheel, it is easy to see how the process got its name. Technically, ceramics are those things made from materials which are permanently changed when heated. For example, clay has chemically-bonded water in it which will cause it to slake down (disintegrate) when a dried clay object is put in water.
Pottery is made by forming a clay body into objects of a required shape and heating them to high temperatures in a kiln which removes all the water from the clay, which induces reactions that lead to permanent changes including increasing their strength and hardening and setting their shape. The earliest forms of pottery were made from clays that were fired at low temperatures in pit-fires or in open bonfires. They were hand formed and undecorated. Because the biscuit form of earthenware is porous, it has limited utility for storage of liquids.