George Orwell's essay, Shooting an Elephant, deals with the evils of imperialism. The unjust shooting of an elephant in Orwell's story is the central focus from which Orwell builds his argument through the two dominant characters, the elephant and its executioner. The British officer, the executioner, acts as a symbol of the imperial country, while the elephant symbolizes the victim of imperialism. One can begin to understand Orwell's argument against imperialism by seeing the wrong in Orwell's shooting of the elephant. Orwell shoots the elephant for the sake of holding up the white man's image, not for the reason of safety.
Shooting an Elephant. English 111 October 13th 2013 Argument Analysis of “ Shooting an Elephant ” In the essay, Shooting an Elephant, George Orwell writes about his experiences as a British police officer in Burma, and compares it to the nature of imperialism. Surely, the reason this essay keeps the attention of the reader so well is because Blair... While reading the essay Shooting an Elephant, first published in 1936 by Eric Blair under the pen name of George Orwell, one gets...
Orwell's Shooting an Elephant, is an essay, so it does contain a thesis. Orwell's thesis is that when a white man becomes a tyrant, it is his own freedom that he loses. In the essay, Orwell demonstrates how he loses his freedom to behave intelligently and morally. To me, the thesis and main point of Orwell's essay is that imperialism is bad. He argues that it is bad for the ruling people and he argues that it is bad for the people who are ruled. Orwell shows in the beginning of the essay how colonialism degrades the colonized people.
In George Orwell's “ Shooting an Elephant ,” deals with the evil side of imperialism. The shooting of the elephant in Orwell's story is the central focus from which Orwell builds his argument through the two dominant characters, the elephant and the British officer. Surely, the reason this essay keeps the attention of the reader so well is because Blair... While reading the essay Shooting an Elephant, first published in 1936 by Eric Blair under the pen name of George Orwell, one gets...
In this powerful essay, George Orwell uses the symbol of when he was forced to shoot an elephant to describe the foolhardiness and inherent weakness of the colonial endeavour. He describes how the elephant did not need to be shot and how he really didn't want to shoot it. Thus it is that he realises the cental paradox that lies behind colonialism, that when the white man turns tyrant it is his own freedom that he destroys.. The narrator feels that people expect powerful action from him as he is the all-powerful white man who rules them.
The degree to which the story is fiction has been disputed. In his biography of Orwell, George Orwell: A Life, Bernard Crick cast doubt on the idea that Orwell himself actually shot an elephant. 
Sample ENG 1001 Essay on Orwell's Shooting an Elephant. The Price of Pride, written by Dennis Crask when he was a student in ENG 1001, is an excellent essay on George Orwell's Shooting an Elephant.. The Price of Pride{1} Unanticipated choices one is forced to make can have long-lasting effects.{2} In Shooting an Elephant, by George Orwell, the author recounts an event from his life when he was about twenty years old during which he had to choose the lesser of two evils.
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Because Shooting an Elephant by George Orwell is an essay, it contains its own thesis, which is an argument about the nature of imperialism. The argument about imperialism that is central to Shooting an Elephant can be summarized something like this: Imperialism affects the oppressed as well as the oppressor. Because it is an immoral relationship of power, it compels the oppressor to act immorally to keep up appearances that he is right.
Rhetorical Analysis of Orwell's Shooting an Elephant. While reading the essay Shooting an Elephant, first published in 1936 by Eric Blair under the pen name of George Orwell, one gets captivated by the intricate web of rhetoric that Blair weaves throughout the piece. Surely, the reason this essay keeps the attention of the reader so well is because Blair... While reading the essay Shooting an Elephant, first published in 1936 by Eric Blair under the pen name of George Orwell, one gets...
Orwell’s 1936 publication Shooting an Elephant is an autobiographical account of Orwell’s experiences as a British police officer in Burma during a period of British imperialism. Though Orwell has personal sympathy for the Burmese, the Burmese do not respect his position or legitimize his authority. Shooting an Elephant text. Persuasion is an inescapable fact of communication. Whether it be a poster for a new movie or handling social pressures to conform, persuasion is one of the most prevalent styles of rhetorical dialogue.