Amchoor chutney is made with Mango powder. It is a substitute of Tamarind (Imli) chutney. Make it at home with our tried and tested recipe. Amchoor chutney is the closest substitute for Imli Chutney. Our kitchen normally has the Mango powder (Amchoor) ready stock and it the ease of making this doubles up the probability of using this over the Tamarind one. Amchoor Chutney Recipe – Imli Chutney Substitute [Video]. 
It is made from unripe green mangoes that are dried and turned into a powder. It adds a tangy, slightly sour flavor to Indian dishes. If you do not have mango powder on hand, you can substitute the juice from one lime. Print this recipe. 1  1 1/4 cups dried chickpeas. 2  2 tablespoons ghee or a mixture of butter and oil. 3  1 teaspoon cumin seeds. 4  2 - 3 black cardamom pods, crushed. 5  1 cinnamon stick, broken in half. 6  1 teaspoon ground cumin. 7  2 tablespoons mango (amchoor) powder. 8  1 tablespoon ground coriander. 9  2 medium ripe tomatoes, finely chopped. 10  generous handful of ....
Best Answer: Hi...This depends actually the type of recipe you are making but I will provide you some options. Mango Powder is dry mangoes which are crush in a powder foam without seeds and skins to give sour taste to the recipes all the brand have similar tastes not much difference. 1. Use Lemon Juice or Citric Acid (Lemon Flower) which are white in color and like small granuals you will get in Indian Asian Stores. 
Amchur Powder Health Benefits. Amchur powder is unripe or green mangoes, sliced and sun dried and ground into a fine powder. Amchoor has a pleasant sweet-sour aroma of dried fruit, astringent, but also sweet fruity flavour. Amchoor has a cooling effect and is good for digestion. In English it is known as Mango Powder. 
amchoor = amchur = umchoor = green mango powder = aamchur = amchor = dried green mango = dried mango powder Notes: This is made from sun-dried mangoes, and it's used as a souring agent or to tenderize meats. Indian or Middle Eastern grocery stores carry it. 
Dried mango powder is one of the most flavored powder masala which is being used in various recipes. Dry mango powder is very popular with the name Ambchur or Amchur. This aromatic masala powder is available at every grocery store and is marketed from several brand names. At the time of selecting dry mango powder some aspects should be taken care of and one of the most important aspect is the name of brand which is marketing this powder. Secondly you must know the color and texture of amchur, which is always fibrous and beige or the light skinny in color.
Amchur is the spice from dried mangos and is also known as Amchoor or mango powder. Used in north Indian vegetarian dishes, Amchur provides a fruity tanginess to vegetable curries, stews, soups, chutneys, samosa fillings and potato pakoras. Amchur can also be found in spice blends for tandoor – barbecued meat. Indigenous to Southeast Asia and India, the mango is now harvested widely for its fruit. One of the oldest cultivated fruits in the world Mango trees only bear fruit every other year. Amchur is the spice derived from green or unripe mango fruits which have been sliced, dried in the sun and then ground into a powder.
Dried mango powder is a spice made by grinding dried mangoes. The powder preserves the acidic, tart and spicy flavour of unripe mangoes. Preparing dried mango powder at home is easy. Peel and slice unripe green mangoes into thin strips. Rub them with powdered turmeric to avert pest attacks. Dry in the sun for 5-6 days. Once dry, grind in a mixer into a fine powder
Mango powder is made from raw green mangoes that are cut, sun-dried, and pounded into powder. Mango powder is used much like lemon. But it gives food a tangy, sour taste without adding moisture. 
When the mangoes are fully dried then grind them to make a fine powder. At the time of selecting dry mango powder some aspects should be taken care of and one of the most important aspect is the name of brand which is marketing this powder. Secondly you must know the color and texture of amchur, which is always fibrous and beige or the light skinny in color.