The word derives from Latin ŏlīva (olive fruit, olive tree; olive oil is ŏlĕum) which is cognate with the Greek ἐλαία (elaia, elaía olive, fruit olive) tree and (ἔλαιον, elaion élaion). olive oil There are hundreds of cultivars of the olive tree (Olea europaea). An olive's cultivar has a significant impact on its color, size, shape, and growth characteristics, as well as the qualities of olive oil. Olive cultivars may be used primarily for oil, eating, or both.
Olive oil is a fat obtained from the olive (the fruit of Olea europaea; family Oleaceae), a traditional tree crop of the Mediterranean Basin. The oil is produced by pressing whole olives and is commonly used in cooking, cosmetics, pharmaceuticals, and soaps, and as a fuel for traditional oil lamps. Olive oil is used throughout the world and is often associated with Mediterranean countries.
| Filed Under: Firsts 3 Comments. Today, most of the olives we eat come from Spain or Italy. But the original home of the olive tree is in the Middle East, where it was common all around the Mediterranean Sea by biblical times. Traders later brought olive tree seeds and cuttings to Europe and North Africa. Olives are never eaten fresh from the tree.
The olive tree, Olea europaea, is an evergreen tree or shrub native to the Mediterranean, Asia and Africa. It is short and squat, and rarely exceeds 8–15 m (26–49 ft) in height. There are hundreds of cultivars of the olive tree (Olea europaea). An olive's cultivar has a significant impact on its color, size, shape, and growth characteristics, as well as the qualities of olive oil. Olive cultivars may be used primarily for oil, eating, or both.
Wherever olives are grown, almost any cultivar of olive is used for both table fruit and oil. References to a particular cultivar's purpose is generalized and refers to the primary commercial purpose of the cultivar. Larger cultivars such as 'Mission' can bear up to 100 pounds of fruit in a season, and the giant 'Chemlali' can produce nearly a ton of fruit in one year. Some people do grow olives in places where winters are very cold but they take extreme measures to protect their trees from low temperatures.
smithsonian.com. Although people usually associate olive oil most closely with Italy, Spain is the world's largest producer of the stuff. In fact, chances are good that, if you have tasted olive oil, you have tasted olive oil from Spain. The oils are made from a blend of four varieties of olives, in different combinations, each with different characteristics: arbequina is a little sour with a flavor that fades quickly; hojiblanca is fruity, sweet and peppery; morisca is sweet, but difficult to grow; and picual has the most robust flavor.
11 Mar, 2010 where do 0. The olive tree is an evergreen tree that produces fruit that bears the same name (olives). It is a short, yet stout, tree that does not commonly grow past 15m trall. The olive tree has been a significant plant within Mediterranean culture and history and is listed in many historical texts such as the bible. Today the olive tree has been introduced into many countries of the world, but it is still mainly grown in Mediterranean countries. The largest worldwide producers of olives are Spain, Italy, Greece, Turkey and Tunisia.
Olive plantation in Andalucia, Andalucía. Spain olives are now cultivated in many regions of the world With mediterranean, climates such As South, Africa, Chile, Peru, australia And california and in areas with temperate climates such As New, zealand under irrigation in The cuyo region In argentina which has a desert. climate There are hundreds of cultivars of the olive tree (Olea europaea). An olive's cultivar has a significant impact on its color, size, shape, and growth characteristics, as well as the qualities of olive oil. Olive cultivars may be used primarily for oil, eating, or both.
The olive's fruit, also called the olive, is of major agricultural importance in the Mediterranean region as the source of olive oil. The tree and its fruit give their name to the plant family, which also includes species such as lilacs, jasmine, Forsythia and the true ash trees (Fraxinus). There are hundreds of cultivars of the olive tree (Olea europaea). An olive's cultivar has a significant impact on its color, size, shape, and growth characteristics, as well as the qualities of olive oil. Olive cultivars may be used primarily for oil, eating, or both.