Nearby Terms. 1  subsill. 2  subsoil. 3  subsoil drain. 4  substantial compl... 5  substantial perfo... 6  substation. 7  substitution. 8  substrate. 9  substrate failure. 10  substructure. 11  sub-subcontractor. 12  subsurface contam... 13  subsurface invest... 
2. No changes to the building design, engineering design, or detailing are required by the proposed substitution. 3. The proposed substitution will have no adverse effect on other trades, the construction schedule, or specified warranty requirements. Attached data includes: Product Description Performance and Test Data Drawings Specifications Photographs 2. Yes / No changes will be required to the Contract Documents for the proper installation of proposed product
Any request deemed a Substitution and rejected or approved by Construction Administrator, Architect, and Owner may result in written notification to the Contractor and may be in the form of a change order if the Substitution is approved. 
Material Substitution Request Form. Our Material Substitution Request form is a fill in the blank Microsoft Excel template that is fully editable. This form contains check boxes that can be selected or deselected with the click of a mouse. When opening this file be sure to enable macros so the check boxes will work. The Material Substitution Request form can be used before bid or after bid for construction projects.
All manufacturers wish that their product or products are used on construction projects; otherwise, they would not be in the business. But, on the design side, not every product is suitable for a given project, nor is there sufficient fee to research every product that could potentially be used on a project. “Convenience” refers to conditions that benefit the contractor, the owner, or both. If permitted, the contractor may submit a substitution request if there is a significant advantage, such as lower cost in labor, material, or both; quicker delivery time; or other benefit to the owner.
How these other possible products make it into the project depends on what the construction documents provide in the form of substitution procedures. Substitution of specified or indicated products has probably been around as long as building construction has been in existence. However, throughout the history of construction, there was no formalized substitution process developed for construction professionals to implement until the 1960’s. “Convenience” refers to conditions that benefit the contractor, the owner, or both. If permitted, the contractor may submit a substitution request if there is a significant advantage, such as lower cost in labor, material, or both; quicker delivery time; or other benefit to the owner.
Medical Definition of SUBSTITUTION. 1. : a chemical reaction in which one or more atoms or groups in a molecule are replaced by equivalent atoms or groups to form at least two products; especially: the replacement of hydrogen in an organic compound by another element or group. 2. 1 Substitution of applesauce for oil is one way of reducing the fat in recipes. 2  The cookbook has a long list of substitutions for ingredients that may be hard to find.
Definition of SUBSTITUTION TABLES. : tables of sentences in which equivalents may be substituted for their elements and which are used especially in grammar drill. ADVERTISEMENT. This word doesn't usually appear in our free dictionary, but the definition from our premium Unabridged Dictionary is offered here on a limited basis. 
Submittals in construction management there are shop drawings, material data, samples, and product data. Submittals are required primarily for the architect and engineer to verify that the correct products and quantities will be installed on the project. 
Green building (also known as green construction or sustainable building) refers to both a structure and the using of processes that are environmentally responsible and resource-efficient throughout a building's life-cycle: from siting to design, construction, operation, maintenance, renovation, and demolition. 