Asphalt Shingles. This is the most common type of roof shingles and also offers the most affordability. Asphalt shingles are a great option, because they are in compliance with all Energy Star standards for a cool roof rebate. This will give you access to even more savings and help you not lose out on quality.
There are many different types of roofs out there: 1. Flat roof. Flat roof is the simplest and most economical type of roof, characteristic of modern architecture and frequently used in warm weather conditions. It is well known all over the world and each country has its own tradition about it.
Metal is a very common material used for roofs. There are many different types of metal roofing systems available. The types of metal used with available systems varies from zinc to steel, copper, aluminum, and tin.
Hip Roof: Hip roofs are a common residential style roof. This type of roof is more difficult to construct when compared to flat roofs and gable roofs because they have a more complicated truss and rafter structure. A hip roof style roof has four sloping sides with zero vertical roof lines/walls.
Flat roofs are common especially with commercial buildings. Flat roofs are definitely the most simple roof to build because they have little to no pitch. The most common types of roofing systems used with flat roofs are rubber roofing systems.
3. Saltbox. This is one of my favorite roof types just because it looks so interesting from the exterior. It is an asymmetrical long pitched roof with one short side and one very long side. Often times this results in a home that is one story in height on one side of the building and two stories on the other side.
Different Types of Roofs. If you have come looking to learn more about the different roof types available, then you have definitely come to the right roofing website. This section of our website is dedicated to providing the best information regarding the different types of roofs.
4. Pyramid Roof. As the name suggests, this is a type of roof that is shaped like a pyramid. We see it here on two different portions of this extravagant home. This type of roof is usually used either on small portions, like this, or on small structures such as a garage or pool house.
Roofs may be pitched (angled), or flat (which, in reality, is very slightly angled). Most roofs are pitched. There are many types of pitched roofs to suit different situations. As a result, there are many variations on the basic design and numerous combinations of design elements with construction methods.