The salaries paid to biomedical engineering professionals are declining in Virginia. The mean salary for biomedical engineering professionals in 2006 was $100,520 per year. And in 2010 the mean salary was $80,960 per year. Thus, biomedical engineering professionals' salaries declined by 24% in 4 years. State trends for all professions are quite different from this decline. Within the field of biomedical engineering, there is a huge variation in pay, with the highest paid biomedical engineering professionals earning 150% more money than those in the bottom 10% of the pay bracket in Virginia state.
Biomedical Engineer. Biomedical Engineers function as the health care technology experts in a medical setting. These professionals are responsible for patient safety through the planning, implementation and sustainment of health care technology. Biomedical Engineers work to ensure that the most efficient and effective medical technology is available to provide the highest quality of care to Veterans.
The number of biomedical engineering professionals is growing in Virginia. 240 more biomedical engineering professionals were working in Virginia in 2010, than there were in 2006. Thus, in Virginia, this field has grown by 160% in four years. Within the field of biomedical engineering, there is a huge variation in pay, with the highest paid biomedical engineering professionals earning 150% more money than those in the bottom 10% of the pay bracket in Virginia state.
1 View all Department Of Veterans Affairs jobs in Richmond, VA-Richmond jobs. 2  Salary Search: Clinical Biomedical Engineer salaries in Richmond, VA. 3  Learn more about working at Department of Veterans Affairs. 4  Related forums: Department of Veterans Affairs. A Master of Science (MSc) in the field of Mechanical or Biomedical Engineering or a related field of study is required for this position.... 1 day ago-save job-email-more... 1  View all General Dynamics Information Technology jobs in Portsmouth, VA-Portsmouth jobs.
(United States). The average pay for a Biomedical Engineer is $62,986 per year. Pay for this job rises steadily for more experienced workers, but goes down noticeably for employees with more than 20 years' experience. The skills that increase pay for this job the most are Clinical Research and Project Management
An estimated 390 biomedical engineers are in Virginia state. And the government projects that this number will increase by 87%, or to 730 biomedical engineers by the year 2018. If you work as a biomedical engineer in Virginia, your yearly salary can range from less than $51,465 to more than $138,230. In Virginia an estimated 207 students graduate from biomedical engineering schools every year. Virginia has 8 biomedical engineering schools to choose from, if you are interested in studying biomedical engineering. Yearly tuition at biomedical engineering schools in Virginia for a degree in biomedical engineering is $12,905 per year. Virginia's largest biomedical engineering school, which is located in Charlottesville, is University of Virginia-Main Campus
Looking at state by state salaries below you can see that some states can pay as much as $89,000 a year for Engineers in the Biomedical field. Listed below is information that is specific to Biomedical Engineer job salaries that you can expect to receive in that state area. Our state by state breakdown allows you to see which state is best to get a job as a Biomedical Engineer.
Bureau of Labor Statistics information for Biomedical Engineers shows a very healthy profession to get involved in with a median salary in 2010 for these types of Engineers at $81,540 a year which comes out to around $39,20 an hour. Listed below is information that is specific to Biomedical Engineer job salaries that you can expect to receive in that state area. Our state by state breakdown allows you to see which state is best to get a job as a Biomedical Engineer.