Hertfordshire (/ˈhɑrtfərdʃɪər/ ; abbreviated Herts) is a county in southern England, bordered by Bedfordshire to the north, Cambridgeshire to the north-east, Essex to the east, Buckinghamshire to the west and Greater London to the south. However, the greatest boost to Hertfordshire came during the Industrial Revolution, after which the population rose dramatically. In 1903, Letchworth became the world's first garden city and Stevenage became the first town to redevelop under the New Towns Act 1946.
Harpenden Hertfordshire Map. St Albans-One of the most ancient towns in England, St Albans was settled long before the Romans arrived in Britain, under the Romans it became an important town on Watling Street for those heading north from London. St Albans Map. Stevenage-One of the Hertfordshire New Towns built in the 40's and 50's, Stevenage existed as a settlement and town long before this time, being inhabited back in Roman times and probably even before this.
Discover Hertford. Hertford is a historic market town 20 miles north of London in the East Hertfordshire countryside, an area often regarded as one of the most desirable in the UK. With a population of 27,000, the town features excellent schools and a healthy economy. 
Towns in the county of Hertfordshire in southern England. See also: 1  Category:St Albans (St Albans is the only city in Hertfordshire). 2  Category:Villages in Hertfordshire. 
Watford is Hertfordshire's largest town and is situated in the south of the county between the M25 and M1 motorways. Watford is only a 20 minutes train journey from Euston station in London. The navigable River Gade runs along the west of Watford while the River Colne runs along the east. 
The Hertfordshire town of Watford is 20 miles north west of London within the M25 motorway. Welwyn Garden City. Welwyn Garden City is a new town developed in the 1920s. It is close to London for commuters, but there is also lots to do in the town itself. The market town of Bishops Stortford is in a rural area of Hertfordshire, close to the county boundary with Essex and 27 miles north of central London. Caldecote. Encompassing 325 acres, Caldecote is one of the smallest villages in Hertfordshire.
Berkhamsted Map. Stevenage-One of the Hertfordshire New Towns built in the 40's and 50's, Stevenage existed as a settlement and town long before this time, being inhabited back in Roman times and probably even before this. Located beside the A1 (M) it is now a busy commuter town with easy access into central London
Use controls to view a detailed road map of Hertfordshire or of any of its many well known towns such as St Albans, Hertford, Watford, Hemel Hempstead, Stevenage, Ware, Harpenden, Welwyn Garden City and Hatfield. Stevenage-One of the Hertfordshire New Towns built in the 40's and 50's, Stevenage existed as a settlement and town long before this time, being inhabited back in Roman times and probably even before this.
Hemel Hempstead. Hemel Hempstead is in Hertfordshire, eight miles west of St Albans and close to both the M1 and M25 motorways. Hertford. Hertford is the county town of Hertfordshire and despite its country town atmosphere, it is just 19 miles north of London. Hitchin. Hitchin first known of in the 8th century but grew as a market town during the 15th century, then expanded rapidly when the railway came and presently has a population of approx 35,000. The market town of Bishops Stortford is in a rural area of Hertfordshire, close to the county boundary with Essex and 27 miles north of central London. Caldecote. Encompassing 325 acres, Caldecote is one of the smallest villages in Hertfordshire.