Finger dislocation, also called a finger jam, is a common injury. It occurs when the bones of the finger are moved (dislocated) from their normal position. A dislocated finger can occur in any of the joints of any finger, but it occurs most often in the middle knuckle of the little, ring, middle, or index finger. When you have a dislocated finger, you should see a doctor at once. Delaying a visit to your doctor for a finger jam can make final treatment more difficult and can lead to delayed healing or permanent disability.
MCP JOINT. The metacarpophalangeal (MCP) joint most commonly dislocated is that of the thumb. A simple dislocation involves no soft tissue obstruction, and reduction should be attempted. A complex dislocation involves intervening soft tissue (i.e., ligaments, musculature, or fascia) and requires surgical reduction. 
A dislocated finger is an injury where the ends of the finger bones are forced out of their normal alignment. It's a painful, but fairly common sports injury. If you reach, grab, pull, or push while playing your sport, a dislocated finger is always a possibility. A dislocated finger occurs when the bones of a finger are moved out of their normal position because of the impact of the fingers against an object, person, ball, or piece of equipment. There are three joints in each finger (not counting the thumb). The middle joint is the one most frequently injured in athletes
Mallet fracture dislocation is most common type of thumb dislocation. Pure IP dislocation with out a fracture is a rare injury. It is caused by a fall on the thumb. The skin can be torn and bone exposed. These dislocations are usually towards the dorsal (finger nail) surface. In pure IP dislocations the thumb remains extended and there is inability to flex the joint. 
Dislocated finger joint occurs when an injury causes damage to the joint ligaments or capsule, such that the joint forming surface of a finger bone or phalanx is extruded out of the joint. Thus, a finger dislocation leads to failure of joint mobility and causes a stiff, swollen, and painful finger joint. Dislocated Finger Joint Pictures and Treatment. A dislocated finger joint is rarely seen in orthopedic practice, due to the inborn reflexive attitude of a person to protect fingers from injury. This can also be due to the fact, that finger movements are controlled by a large area of the brain.
Finger Dislocation Overview. Finger dislocation is a common injury. It occurs when the bones of the finger are moved (dislocated) from their normal anatomic position. Finger dislocation can occur in any of the joints of any finger, but it occurs most often in the middle knuckle of the little, ring, middle, or index finger. Medically Reviewed by a Doctor on 10/31/2014.
Shoulder dislocation. A dislocation is an injury to a joint — a place where two or more of your bones come together — in which the ends of your bones are forced from their normal positions. This painful injury temporarily deforms and immobilizes your joint. Dislocation is most common in the shoulders and fingers. 
Types of Dislocated Fingers. 1  PIP dislocation or proximal interphalangeal joint dislocation is the commonest type of finger dislocation, which occurs in the first finger joint from the knuckles. 2  Traumatic injuries are a common cause of PIP dislocation. Dislocated Finger Joint Pictures and Treatment. A dislocated finger joint is rarely seen in orthopedic practice, due to the inborn reflexive attitude of a person to protect fingers from injury. This can also be due to the fact, that finger movements are controlled by a large area of the brain.