Lesson 1: MALAGASY ALPHABET VOWELS The Malagasy language has only 4 vowel sounds: a, e, i, and o, pronounced as follows: A Sounds [ae] æ as in The english: Word. Father: Examples (Salama), Hello (manana to). Have e [sounds] ei as in The english; word, made. Pay: Examples (Veloma!), bye (teny/language), words (enina). six As for the Malagasy alphabet, there are some vowels and consonants that do not exist such as “u,c,q,x,w.” In fact the Malagasy language is close to Arabic in pronunciation.
AN INTRODUCTION TO THE MALAGASY LANGUAGE Malagasy is the only language spoken in all of Madagascar, while there are eighteen dialects spoken in different regions, for instance Sakalava, Tsimihety, Betsimisaraka, Betsileo, Antandroy, Antanosy, Antesaka, Antemoro, Bara, and Standard Malagasy. As for the Malagasy alphabet, there are some vowels and consonants that do not exist such as “u,c,q,x,w.” In fact the Malagasy language is close to Arabic in pronunciation.
[ˌmalaˈɡasʲ]) is an Austronesian language and the national language of Madagascar. Most people in Madagascar speak it as a first language as do some people of Malagasy descent elsewhere. The language has a written literature going back presumably to the 15th century. When the French established Fort-Dauphin in the 17th century, they found an Arabico-Malagasy script in use, known as Sorabe (large writings). This Arabic Ajami-based script was mainly used for astrological and magical texts.
The Malagasy immigrants came in contact with settlers from the east coast of Africa who spoke Bantu languages. As a result, Malagasy exhibits Bantu influence in its sound system and vocabulary. Indonesian immigration continuing until the 15th century. By the beginning of the 17th century there were a number of small Malagasy kingdoms. At the end of the 18th century, the Merina people conquered the other kingdoms on the island.
Consonants Malagasy has 20 consonant phonemes, i.e., sounds that differentiate word meaning. Stops and affricates can be prenasalized, a feature typical of the Bantu languages, spoken by settlers from the east coast of Africa. As a result, Malagasy exhibits Bantu influence in its sound system and vocabulary. Indonesian immigration continuing until the 15th century. By the beginning of the 17th century there were a number of small Malagasy kingdoms. At the end of the 18th century, the Merina people conquered the other kingdoms on the island.
Malagasy is an agglutinative language, i.e., words are formed by attaching prefixes or suffixes to roots to create derivatives. Malagasy words can be very long, e.g., Andrianampoinimerina, the name of a king. Like all Malayo-Polynesian languages, Malagasy also uses reduplication to mark grammatical relations. As a result, Malagasy exhibits Bantu influence in its sound system and vocabulary. Indonesian immigration continuing until the 15th century. By the beginning of the 17th century there were a number of small Malagasy kingdoms. At the end of the 18th century, the Merina people conquered the other kingdoms on the island.
Lesson 1: MALAGASY ALPHABET VOWELS The Malagasy language has only 4 vowel sounds: a, e, i, and o, pronounced as follows: A Sounds [ae] æ as in The english: Word. Father: Examples (Salama), Hello (manana to). Have e [sounds] ei as in The english; word, made. pay As for the Malagasy alphabet, there are some vowels and consonants that do not exist such as “u,c,q,x,w.” In fact the Malagasy language is close to Arabic in pronunciation.
Lesson 1: MALAGASY ALPHABET VOWELS The Malagasy language has only 4 vowel sounds: a, e, i, and o, pronounced as follows: A Sounds [ae] æ as in The english: Word. Father: Examples (Salama), Hello (manana to). have As for the Malagasy alphabet, there are some vowels and consonants that do not exist such as “u,c,q,x,w.” In fact the Malagasy language is close to Arabic in pronunciation.
Malagasy. Malagasy is the main language of Madagascar, and is spoken by almost all of the resident population. It is related to the Malayan language from the Barito Valley in Borneo, as well as several other Indonesian languages. For instance, the names of days and weeks are influenced by Arabic; the names of animals sound like Swahili words. English and French words have also made their way into the Malagasy dialect. Malagasy was not a written language until recently; this was done by Welsch missionaries in the 1820s.
The Merina dialect of Malagasy is considered the national language of Madagascar. It is one of two official languages alongside French in the 2010 constitution putting in place the Fourth Republic. Previously, under the 2007 constitution, Malagasy was one of three official languages alongside French and English. The language has a written literature going back presumably to the 15th century. When the French established Fort-Dauphin in the 17th century, they found an Arabico-Malagasy script in use, known as Sorabe (large writings). This Arabic Ajami-based script was mainly used for astrological and magical texts.