Lene is also a derivative of the name Lenis. Lene is also a derivative of Lina. Lene is also a contraction (Dutch, English, German, Polish, Scandinavian, and Scottish) of the English and German name Magdalene as well as a derivative (Dutch, English, German, Polish, Scandinavian, and Scottish) of Magdalena. Lene is unusual as a baby name for girl
Meanings and history of the name Helene : | Edit. From Greek, variation of Helen, meaning light. It is the standard French and German form of the name, spelled Helene hélène In. French In, english it may be pronouced either-HUH leen or-HEH. Laine In, german it is pronounced-HEH-lay. neh Greek name derived from the root ēlē (light, torch, bright). The name is borne in Greek legend by the beautiful wife of the king of Sparta. Her abduction by the Trojan prince Paris sparked off the Trojan War. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman.
Alene. Alene /ale-ne/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is of Norman, Greek and Old German derivation, and Alene means precious; awakening; sun ray. Alene is an alternate form of Aileen (Norman): Scottish version of Eileen. 
Personal experiences with the name Lene: | Edit. Share what you know! Nicknames for Lene: | Edit. Share what you know! Meanings and history of the name Lene : | Edit. Scandinavian and German short form of names ending in-lene, such as Helene and Magdalene. German pronunciation: LEE-nah. Norwegian pronounciation: LEH-neh. Origin of the name Helene: Greek name derived from the root ēlē (light, torch, bright). The name is borne in Greek legend by the beautiful wife of the king of Sparta. Her abduction by the Trojan prince Paris sparked off the Trojan War.
Listen and learn how to pronounce Niamh so you can get the correct pronunciation for this Irish girl name. MEANING: niamh “radiance, lustre, brightness.” The daughter of the sea god Manannan she was known as “Niamh of the Golden Hair,” a beautiful princess riding on a white horse. 
Hebrew Syllables -. Introduction to the dagashim. Printer-Friendly Version. Any Hebrew letter (except the gutturals) can have a dot inside of it called a dagesh mark (dagesh means emphasis). There are basically two kinds of dageshim that you need to know: the dagesh lene (kal) and the dagesh forte (chazak). 
Lene /lene/ [1 syll.] as a name for girls. Lene's name origin is Latin, and the name Lene means mild, soft, silky. Lene is a version of Arlene: modern coinage of unclear origin. Lene is also a variant of Lenis (Latin): rare. Kreatif forms: Lenet, Lune. Lene is an uncommon given name for women but a very popular surname for both adults and children (#53659 out of 150436, Top 36%). (2000 U.S. Census).
Lene is used mostly in the German, Dutch, English, Polish, Scandinavian, and Scottish languages, and its language of origin is Old Greek, Hebrew, Latin, and English. Lene is a derivative (German) of the English name Helen. Lene is also a derivative of Lena. Lene is also a derivative of Lina. Lene is also a contraction (Dutch, English, German, Polish, Scandinavian, and Scottish) of the English and German name Magdalene as well as a derivative (Dutch, English, German, Polish, Scandinavian, and Scottish) of Magdalena.
Pronunciation Guide. What follows are the sounds used in the name pronunciations on this site. Please note that not all names have yet been assigned a pronunciation. Also note that all of this is only intended to be a rough guide. Pronunciations in different dialects (as in British and American English) can vary considerably.