The slighty posher homemade jet engine. Ok so i,ve done pulse jets and it seemed only right to make one of these as they are little more sophisticated in appearance and have a more refined jet engine sound. However they are still quite simple in the fabrication is just a couple of tubes with some holes drilled in and that really is all they are. The pulse jet is the thug of the jet family and the turbojet the middle class nutter. Ok so i,ve done pulse jets and it seemed only right to make one of these as they are little more sophisticated in appearance and have a more refined jet engine sound.
http://www.PulseJetEngines.com. This video shows how to form sheet metal by hand with a few basic tools in order to make your own pulse jet engine. The video is a bit long at 36 minutes but has countless helpful tips and techniques you wont learn anywhere else and that will take a long time with trial and error, as well as save you a lot of $. 
Pulse Jets are the perfect way to get into hobby jet propulsion. They are mechanically simple enough that you can build one with some basic workshop equipment using a set of blueprints, but the physics behind how they work is complicated enough that it could be the focus of an engineering thesis. Pulse Jet Engines, or Pulsejets, are an amazingly simple type of jet engine that almost anyone can build at home with basic tools. They can run while standing still, with no moving parts, on almost anything that burns. No other jet engine comes close to being able to do that
Making A Pulse Jet Engine. It powers a scale model MiG 15 fighter at 85mph. This is a powerful jet unit and one which can be made by anyone with access to lathe and welding facilities. Emil Brauner of Kladno in Czechoslovkia is a model maker who was forced by circumstance to make his own jet engine. 
A valveless pulse jet (or pulsejet) is the simplest known jet propulsion device. Valveless pulsejets are low in cost, light weight, powerful and easy to operate. Most pulse jet engines use independent intake and exhaust pipes. A physically simpler design combines the intake and exhaust aperture. This is possible due to the oscillating behaviour of a pulse engine.
For most of you out there that want to go the route of making your first pulsejet out of sheet metal and tubing, rather than heavy & expensive pipe fittings, you’ll need a few basic tools and materials. A hack saw can be useful for cutting tubing. Avoid using plasma cutters if you have access to one, the time you might save cutting the pieces out, will be negated when you have to spend ten times as long prepping the part for welding, and trying to weld plasma cut sheet metal. Form the metal to the final shape.
Pulse jets are one of the more simple jets to make. These jets are powered-controlled series explosions of gas and air from a chamber. This controlled series of explosions is the reason for the pulse in the name. As the explosion happens, the force of it closes valves that feed air into the combustion chamber. How to Build a Pulse Jet Engine. This article helps you to create and understand a mini pulse jet engine. Making pulse... 1  How to Build a Turbine Engine.
Both are made of mild sheet steel, thin enough to form by hand with the simplest tools.. Start with a well-proven design, like Cottrill's focused wave pulse jet engine. This is a valveless pulse jet designed so that the combustion chamber consists of nothing but a long cone flowing into the tailpipe. Get the plans here. 