Tiran (Arabic: جزيرة تيران ‎ Jazīrat Tīrān, aka Jeziret Jezîret tīrān And Yotvat, island is An-egyptian administered island that is also claimed By Saudi. arabia Israel briefly took over Tiran Island during the Suez Crisis and again from 1967 to 1982 following the Six Day War. The island is currently inhabited only by military personnel from Egypt and the Multinational Force and Observers [MFO]. Chisholm Point is a cape of Tiran Island.
PASSPORT IS REQUIRED. Tiran Island is one of the most beautiful Islands to be seen! With its gorgeous selection of wrecks that lay against the reefs and in the oceans deep, and its magnificent display of beautiful reef fishes and corals Tiran Island is a must see excursion for any traveler to Sharm el Sheikh. 
Once in South Sinai, you will unquestionable see Tiran Island, illuminated by the evening sun and shining with its light brown-yellow appearance right between Sharm El Sheikh and Saudi Arabia. This place is a very famous destination for excursions, beloved for its charming and extraordinary nature. For divers and snorklers, this area is a pure paradise, lagoons and coral banks being one next to another. Tiran Island lies in the Gulf of Aqaba, a sea street which is more that 1.800 meters deep.
Tiran Island is of strategic significance in the area, as it forms the narrowest section of the Straits of Tiran, which is an important sea passage to the major ports of Aqaba in Jordan and Eilat in Israel. Israel briefly took over Tiran Island during the Suez Crisis and again from 1967 to 1982 following the Six Day War. The island is currently inhabited only by military personnel from Egypt and the Multinational Force and Observers [MFO]. Chisholm Point is a cape of Tiran Island.
The Strait of Tiran is named after Tiran Island located at its entrance 5 or 6 km from the Sinai, on which the Multinational Force and Observers has an observation post to monitor the compliance of Egypt in maintaining freedom of navigation of the straits as provided under the Israel-Egypt Peace Treaty. There are several passages formed by the islands between Egypt and Saudi Arabia. The westernmost strait, between Egypt and the island of Tiran, overlooked by the Egyptian city Sharm el-Sheikh is the Strait of Tiran, 5 or 6 km wide. It has two passages deep enough to be navigable by large ships.
Sanafir Island lies to the east of Tiran, southeast of the shallow strait between Tiran and Saudi Arabia. Access to Jordan 's only seaport of Aqaba and to Israel 's only Red Sea seaport of Eilat is contingent upon passage through the Gulf of Aqaba, giving the Straits of Tiran strategic importance.]]. There are several passages formed by the islands between Egypt and Saudi Arabia. The westernmost strait, between Egypt and the island of Tiran, overlooked by the Egyptian city Sharm el-Sheikh is the Strait of Tiran, 5 or 6 km wide. It has two passages deep enough to be navigable by large ships.
The definite sovereignty over Tiran Island is left unclear by both Egypt and Saudi Arabia, due to geostrategic reasons. The Straits of Tiran is Israel's only access from the Gulf of Aqaba to the Red Sea, and Egypt's blockade of the Straits of Tiran on 22 May 1967 was the casus belli for Israel in the Six Day War. Israel briefly took over Tiran Island during the Suez Crisis and again from 1967 to 1982 following the Six Day War. The island is currently inhabited only by military personnel from Egypt and the Multinational Force and Observers [MFO]. Chisholm Point is a cape of Tiran Island.
More About Tiran Island. Tiran is a large crescent shaped island, located at the entrance of the Straits of Tiran, separating the Red Sea from the gulf of Aqaba, which is more than 1,800 meters deep. Tiran island is easily visible from the mainland, even from most rooftops in Sharm-el-Sheikh. Tiran Island is a mass of granite covered by sedimentary rocks and coral reefs six kilometers off the eastern coast of Sinai. Tiran island by boat. We only arrived back in the UK in the early hours of this morning, and felt the need to write a review of Sharm Club straightaway. We booked three excursions with Sharm Club. The first was a boat trip to
Sail to Tiran island. Sail for two hours by boat towards the north east of Sharm El Sheikh along gulf of Aqaba. The gulf is more than 1800 meter deep. We will reach a beautiful place called Blue Laguna, a perfect site to dive, snorkel or just swim. Tiran island by boat. We only arrived back in the UK in the early hours of this morning, and felt the need to write a review of Sharm Club straightaway. We booked three excursions with Sharm Club. The first was a boat trip to Tiran Island.
Tiran (Arabic: جزيرة تيران ‎ Jazīrat Tīrān, aka Jeziret Jezîret tīrān And Yotvat, island is An-egyptian administered island that is also claimed By Saudi. Arabia it is located at the entrance of The straits Of, tiran which separates The Red sea from The gulf Of. aqaba Israel briefly took over Tiran Island during the Suez Crisis and again from 1967 to 1982 following the Six Day War. The island is currently inhabited only by military personnel from Egypt and the Multinational Force and Observers [MFO]. Chisholm Point is a cape of Tiran Island.