1) Reduce the pressure of the refrigerant: The first and the foremost function of the thermostatic expansion valve is to reduce the pressure of the refrigerant from the condenser pressure to the evaporator pressure. In the condenser the refrigerant is at very high pressure. The thermostatic expansion valve has a constriction or orifice due to which the pressure of the refrigerant passing through it drops down suddenly to the level of
The air conditioning system thermal expansion valve, or more properly called a thermostatic expansion valve, or TEV is a metering device which regulates the flow of refrigerant from the incoming high pressure side (from the compressor/condenser) into the low pressure side (in the cooling coil).
The thermostatic expansion valve (TXV) is a precision device designed to regulate the rate at which liquid refrigerant flows into the evaporator. This controlled flow is necessary to prevent the return of liquid refrigerant to the compressor.
Thermostatic expansion valve: An air conditioner thermal expansion valve or TEV or just expansion valve (tan colored device in the photo) is a device located at the cooling coil and connected between the incoming refrigerant line and the refrigerant inlet to the cooling coil in the air handler.
The thermostatic expansion valve (TXV) is a precision device, which is designed to regulate the rate at which liquid refrigerant flows into the evaporator.
Thermostatic Expansion Valve. This is by far the most common type of expansion device used in commercial refrigeration. The TX valve is a mechanical valve designed for a specific refrigerant that uses both temperature and pressure inputs to control the superheat. TX valves rely on a minimum pressure drop across the valve to drive the valve open.
Thermostatic expansion valve or TEV is one of the most commonly used throttling devices in the refrigerator and air conditioning systems. The thermostatic expansion valve is the automatic valve that maintains proper flow of the refrigerant in the evaporator as per the load inside the evaporator.