Also running along the posterior of the arm, the radial nerve provides nerve signals to the triceps brachii muscle that extends the forearm and the skin of the posterior arm. The musculocutaneous nerve innervates the flexor muscles of the arm, including the biceps brachii and brachialis muscles. Several major nerves continue from the arm into the forearm, including the radial, median, and ulnar nerves. These nerves control the forearm muscles that move the hands and fingers through tendons that pass through the wrist. Skin in the posterior forearm and extensor muscles of the hand and fingers are supplied by the branches of the radial nerve.
Motor Functions. The radial nerve innervates muscles located in the arm and forearm. In the arm, it directly innervates the three heads of the triceps brachii. This muscle performs extension at the elbow. In the forearm, the deep branch of the radial nerve innervates the muscles in the posterior compartment of the forearm. These muscles generally extend at the wrist and finger joints. 1 Motor functions: Muscles in posterior compartment of the forearm are affected – except for the supinator and extensor carpi radialis longus. 2  The extensor carpi radialis longus is a strong extensor at the wrist, and so wristdrop does not occur. 3  Sensory functions: None, as it is a motor nerve.
The radial nerve and its branches provide motor innervation to the dorsal arm muscles (the triceps brachii and the anconeus) and the extrinsic extensors of the wrists and hands; it also provides cutaneous sensory innervation to most of the back of the hand. Muscles of the posterior forearm. All the labelled muscles (that is, all the visible muscles except the ones on the dorsal hand and one at top left) are innervated by the radial nerve, and represent all muscles innervated by the radial nerve except for the supinator.
The radial nerve originates as a terminal branch of the posterior cord of the brachial plexus. It goes through the arm, first in the posterior compartment of the arm, and later in the anterior compartment of the arm, and continues in the posterior compartment of the forearm. Muscles of the posterior forearm. All the labelled muscles (that is, all the visible muscles except the ones on the dorsal hand and one at top left) are innervated by the radial nerve, and represent all muscles innervated by the radial nerve except for the supinator.
The muscles in the posterior compartment of the forearm are commonly known as the extensor muscles. The general function of these muscles is to produce extension at the wrist and fingers. They are all innervated by the radial nerve. To test the function of the muscle, the forearm is pronated, and the fingers extended against resistance. 1  Attachments: Originates from the lateral epicondyle. 2  Actions: Extends medial four fingers at the MCP and IP joints. 3  Innervation: R
The radial nerve is a nerve in the human body that supplies the posterior portion of the upper limb. It innervates the medial and lateralheads of the triceps brachii muscle of the arm, as well as all 12 muscles in the posterior osteofascial compartment of the forearm and the associated joints and overlying skin. Muscles of the posterior forearm. All the labelled muscles (that is, all the visible muscles except the ones on the dorsal hand and one at top left) are innervated by the radial nerve, and represent all muscles innervated by the radial nerve except for the supinator.
skin of the posterior arm, forearm and hand. all of the muscles on the posterior side of the arm and forearm are innervated by the radial n. superficial radial n. radial n. dorsal digital brs. 
The radial nerve (and its deep branch) provides motor innervation to the muscles in the posterior compartment of the arm and forearm, which are mostly extensors. Muscles of the posterior forearm. All the labelled muscles (that is, all the visible muscles except the ones on the dorsal hand and one at top left) are innervated by the radial nerve, and represent all muscles innervated by the radial nerve except for the supinator.
The posterior compartment of the forearm (or extensor compartment) contains 12 muscles which are chiefly responsible for extension of the wrist and digits, and supination of the forearm. It is separated from the anterior compartment by the interosseous membrane between the radius and ulna. The brachioradialis, flexor of the elbow, is unusual in that it is located in the posterior compartment, but it is actually in the anterior compartment