An intelligence quotient (IQ) is a score derived from one of several standardized tests designed to assess human intelligence. The abbreviation IQ was coined by the psychologist William Stern for the German term Intelligenz-quotient, his term for a scoring method for intelligence tests he advocated in a 1912 book.
The first scientific study of the learning curve was performed by Hermann Ebbinghaus. Ebbinghaus learned nonsensical three letter words such as “WID” “KOR” “ZIF” etc. and recorded his progress. This is the phase, where you make the most progress. Once you reach a certain level of skill and knowledge you enter the phase of diminishing returns. The better you become at the task the less you still can make progress in the learning curve.
The learning curve. In psychology the learning curve denotes a graphical representation of the rate at which you make progress learning new information. When you learn something new repetition is essential. Through repetition you become more efficient and more effective at any challenge, which you pose yourself. This is the phase, where you make the most progress. Once you reach a certain level of skill and knowledge you enter the phase of diminishing returns. The better you become at the task the less you still can make progress in the learning curve.
Walter Cannon coined the term the “Fight or flight” response that is commonly used to describe the way in which our body reacts to stress. Cannon originally found this response in animals, but it was later found to also present in humans. The fight or flight response describes the way mammals respond to a threat. 
The term was coined by Hermann Ebbinghaus through studies he performed on himself, and refers to the finding that recall accuracy varies as a function of an item's position within a study list. The continuity effect or lag-recency effect predicts that having made a successful recall, the next recall is likely to be a neighboring item in serial position during the study period. The difference between the two items' serial position is referred to as serial position lag.
In statistics, a long tail of some distributions of numbers is the portion of the distribution having a large number of occurrences far from the head or central part of the distribution. The distribution could involve popularities, random numbers of occurrences of events with various probabilities, etc. The long tail is the name for a long-known feature of some statistical distributions (such as Zipf, power laws, Pareto distributions and general Levy lévy).
The Origins of Geocaching. Geocaching, first coined by Matt Stum on the GPS Stash Hunt mailing list on May 30, 2000, was the joining of two familiar words. The prefix geo, for Earth, was used to describe the global nature of the activity, but also for its use in familiar topics in gps such as geography. The combination of Earth, hiding, and technology made geocaching an excellent term for the activity. However the GPS Stash Hunt was the original and most widely used term until Mike Teague passed the torch to Jeremy Irish in September 2000.
Serial position effect is the tendency of a person to recall the first and last items in a series best, and the middle items worst. The continuity effect or lag-recency effect predicts that having made a successful recall, the next recall is likely to be a neighboring item in serial position during the study period. The difference between the two items' serial position is referred to as serial position lag.
A frequency distribution with a long tail has been studied by statisticians since at least 1946. The term has also been used in the finance and insurance business for many years. The long tail is the name for a long-known feature of some statistical distributions (such as Zipf, power laws, Pareto distributions and general Levy lévy).