Definition of Labeling Theory. Labeling theory was created by Howard Becker in 1963. Labeling theory takes the view that people become criminals when labeled as such and when they accept the label as a personal identity. The central contribution of symbolic-interaction analysis is labeling theory, the assertion that deviance and conformity result not so much from what people do as from how others respond to those actions. Take a look at a few key concepts and test your knowledge with a quiz.
Labeling theory is the theory of how the self-identity and behavior of individuals may be determined or influenced by the terms used to describe or classify them. It is associated with the concepts of self-fulfilling prophecy and stereotyping. Labeling theory had its origins in Suicide, a book by French sociologist Émile émile. Durkheim he found that crime is not so much a violation of a penal code as it is an act that outrages. Society he was the first to suggest that deviant labeling satisfies that function and satisfies'society s need to control the. behavior
Labeling theory is closely related to social-construction and symbolic-interaction analysis. Labeling theory was developed by sociologists during the 1960s. Howard Saul Becker's book Outsiders was extremely influential in the development of this theory and its rise to popularity. Labeling theory had its origins in Suicide, a book by French sociologist Émile émile. Durkheim he found that crime is not so much a violation of a penal code as it is an act that outrages. Society he was the first to suggest that deviant labeling satisfies that function and satisfies'society s need to control the. behavior
Definition of Labeling Theory. In sociology, labeling theory is the view of deviance according to which being labeled as a deviant leads a person to engage in deviant behavior. Originating in Howard Becker's work in the 1960s, labeling theory explains why people's behavior clashes with social norms. 
Labeling theory is one of the most important approaches to understanding deviant and criminal behavior. It stems from the work of W.I. Thomas who, in 1928, wrote, If men define situations as real, they are real in their consequences.. Labeling theory begins with the assumption that no act is intrinsically criminal. Definitions of criminality are established by those in power through the formulation of laws and the interpretation of those laws by police, courts, and correctional institutions.
Labeling Theory. Page by Sarah Dye. Labeling Theory. Labeling theory is a pretty simple theory that is based on social deviations which result in the labeling of the outsider. In his article Becker defines deviance as being created by society. 1 Tannenbaum’s interpretation of labeling theory was called the dramatization of evil. 2  He thought that through the identification, and treatment of a deviant trait with in and individual (labeling) that trait was therefore emphasized causing it to become a larger and larger part of the deviant’s life.
Labeling theory arose from the study of deviant behavior in the 1950's and 1960's and was a rejection of consensus theory or structural functionalism. Labeling theory or social reaction theory, focuses on the linguistic tendency of majorities to negatively label minorities or those seen as deviant from norms. Labeling theory or social reaction theory is concerned with how the self-identity and behavior of individuals may be determined or influenced by the terms used to describe or classify them, and is associated with the concept of a self-fulfilling prophecy and stereotyping.
Labelling or labeling is describing someone or something in a word or short phrase. For example, describing someone who has broken a law as a criminal. Labelling theory is a theory in sociology which ascribes labelling of people to control and identification of deviant behavior. 