A List of Native American Navajo Names for boys and girls with their meanings and their origins within the Native American Navajo tribe. 1  Interesting list of Navajo Names for boys and girls with meanings and origins. 2  Navajo Names for boys with meanings and tribes. List of Navajo Names for Girls A name is the very first present that we give to our baby. The following list contains unusual ideas for Navajo Names for Girls together with their meanings where this info is available.
Many have emailed asking us for information about Native American Names and their Meanings. This began my quest for the answers. Below are the Native American Indian names that I have found with their meanings. When I know which tribe, the name comes from, I have indicated it. If the tribe is not listed, I do not know it, you don't have to email asking. Basically, I am too old to read and answer a lot of emails, therefore, I make sure ALL of the INFORMATION I have on a subject IS put UP ASAP. If you have a Native American Name and Meaning to add to the list-- Fill Out the Form Below.
Navajo Names and Meanings. Check out this list of Navajo Names for boys and girls with their meanings and origins. The collection of Native American Navajo Names includes baby names for boys and girls. List of Navajo Names for Girls A name is the very first present that we give to our baby. The following list contains unusual ideas for Navajo Names for Girls together with their meanings where this info is available.
Names and Meanings. Below are a few examples of Navajo girl names along with their meanings in English. 1. Ajei – Meaning “my heart.” One that is important to me or signifies a great importance. Names can also have deep personal meaning. From the name of the country you were born in to the name of your child, what we call something and why we call it that has importance. Nowhere is this truer than in the proud Navajo people.
The Origin of the Name Navajo. Navajo is a Spanish adaptation of the Tewa Pueblo word navahu’u, meaning farm fields in the valley.. Early Spanish chroniclers referred to the Navajo as Apaches de Nabajo (Nabajó apaches who farm in the), valley which was eventually shortened To.. navajo 
Navajo names are used by the Navajo people of the southwestern United States. 
For the Navajo people, a name carries a significant amount of importance. It is so important in fact that is only used during ceremonies. In addition, some Navajo tribes have a name trail, where the name changes as the child comes of age. As a result, the name you are born with may not be your name once you hit puberty. For children, the name given to them often represents a particular strength or gift for which they are known. Names can also have deep personal meaning. From the name of the country you were born in to the name of your child, what we call something and why we call it that has importance. Nowhere is this truer than in the proud Navajo people.
For example, the Navajo name Atsa, meaning “Eagle,” has a potential for a marketer who desires friendship. Potentials range across those skills required in Navajo culture, including specialists, leaders, philanthropists, administrators, mediators, workers, master builders, entertainers, and leaders. Names can also have deep personal meaning. From the name of the country you were born in to the name of your child, what we call something and why we call it that has importance. Nowhere is this truer than in the proud Navajo people.
1 Navajo Names for boys with meanings and tribes. 2  Naming was based on gender, nature, totem animals and descriptions. 3  A List of Native American Navajo Names for boys and girls with their meanings and origins within the tribe. List of Navajo Names for Girls A name is the very first present that we give to our baby. The following list contains unusual ideas for Navajo Names for Girls together with their meanings where this info is available.