1 Place only 2 or 3 fish in the pan at one time so that they are not crowded. 2  Frying too many at one time cools the oil down too much, causing the fish to absorb more oil. 3  Fry the fish for 5 to 8 minutes on the first side. 4  Turn over and cook another 4 to 7 minutes. Fish can be prepared using almost any type of cooking method including baking, steaming, frying, grilling, broiling, or slow cooking. When cooking fish, care must be taken not to overcook the fillet, steak, or whole fish, which results in dry and somewhat tasteless meat.
1 Place the floured fish in the hot oil. 2  Place only 2 or 3 fish in the pan at one time so that they are not crowded. 3  Frying too many at one time cools the oil down too much, causing the fish to absorb more oil. 4  Fry the fish for 5 to 8 minutes on the first side. Fish can be prepared using almost any type of cooking method including baking, steaming, frying, grilling, broiling, or slow cooking. When cooking fish, care must be taken not to overcook the fillet, steak, or whole fish, which results in dry and somewhat tasteless meat.
You will need a 3-quart heavy saucepan or deep-fat fryer for frying the fish. Attach a deep-frying thermometer to the side of the pan. Heat 2 inches of vegetable oil to 375 degrees F. Preheat the oven to 300 degrees F. Make the Batter. 1  In a shallow dish add 1/2 cup all-purpose flour and set it aside.
1 Place only a few pieces of fish in the pan at one time so that they are not crowded. 2  Frying too many at one time cools the oil down too much, causing the fish to absorb more oil. 3  Fry consistent size pieces together so they cook evenly. 4  Fry the fish for 3 to 5 minutes on the first side. Fish can be prepared using almost any type of cooking method including baking, steaming, frying, grilling, broiling, or slow cooking. When cooking fish, care must be taken not to overcook the fillet, steak, or whole fish, which results in dry and somewhat tasteless meat.
Next, coat fish with flour. The wetness of the egg will help hold the flour on the fish. During cooking, the protein in the egg binds the flour to the fish to help keep the coating attached. 3. Fry fish in oil 6-8 minutes, turning once, until fish flakes easily and is brown on both sides. Fish cooks very quickly, especially the thinner tail sections, so be careful not to overcook. Remove with slotted spatula; drain on paper towels. What you’ll need: Ingredients for Pan-fried Fish Fillets 12-inch nonstick skillet Small bowl Shallow dish Wire whisk or fork Slotted spatula Paper towels How to: 1. Pour about 1/8 inch oil into skillet; set on medium heat. Cut fish into 6 pieces and sprinkle both sides with salt and pepper.
I am defining frying as cooking in enough oil so that half of the piece of fish is under the oil as it cooks. Best choices for this are regular olive oil for Mediterranean recipes, vegetable oil for American dishes, and peanut oil for Asian food. Frying is also where you can use lard or butter. If you are deep-frying, or submerging the fish or seafood in oil, use the same thing as you would in a regular fry. I like canola oil, as it is neutral-tasting and inexpensive. You could use any vegetable oil, however. This is also a good place for specialty oils. Specialty oils also have a limited place in fish and seafood cooking. The two I use most often are walnut oil and sesame oil.
Pan-frying fish is, perhaps, the most delicious way to cook any non-fatty fish. The coating protects the flesh from direct heat and helps keep the fish moist, while also providing a browned and crispy or crunchy crust. Yet, the method avoids the large amount of oil (not to mention the mess) required for deep frying. 
//d5kh2btv85w9n.cloudfront.net/e/ef/Cook for a Southern Fish Fry Step 8 Version 2.360p.mp4. 9. Remove the last of your fish, and begin dropping the hushpuppies into the hot oil. Use a spoon to dip batter from your bowl (or other container), then, holding it just above the oil, let it slide off of your spoon. Ease pieces of fish into the hot oil one at a time until it is near its cooking capacity, being careful to avoid splashing the oil. http://pad1.whstatic.com/images/thumb/1/18/Cook-for-a-Southern-Fish-Fry-Step-5-preview-Version-2.jpg/550px-Cook-for-a-Southern-Fish-Fry-Step-5-preview-Version-2.jpg.
Pan-frying. 1  Place the floured fish in the hot oil. 2  Fry the fish for 5 to 8 minutes on the first side. 3  When the fish is done its skin should be browned and crisp. 4  Remove from the pan and place on a paper towel lined platter so the grease can drain. 5  Add more oil if cooking additional fish. Fish can be prepared using almost any type of cooking method including baking, steaming, frying, grilling, broiling, or slow cooking. When cooking fish, care must be taken not to overcook the fillet, steak, or whole fish, which results in dry and somewhat tasteless meat.
Heat the pan until the oil slides around easily in the pan. You can also splatter a few drops of water in the pan -- if the water sizzles and pops, it’s ready for your fish. Place the fish flesh side down in the pan. You want to cook the “presentation” side of the fish first. 