Hantavirus is named for the Hantan River area in South Korea where an early outbreak was observed. The virus was isolated in the late 1970s by Karl M. Johnson and Ho-Wang Lee. Hantaviruses are single-stranded, enveloped, negative sense RNA viruses in the Bunyaviridae family. They normally infect rodents and do not cause disease in these hosts. Humans may become infected with hantaviruses through contact with rodent urine, saliva, or feces.
The results led to the discovery of another hantavirus, named Bayou virus, which was linked to a carrier, the rice rat (Oryzomys palustris). In late 1993, a 33-year-old Florida man came down with HPS symptoms; he later recovered. This person also had not traveled to the Four Corners area. Researchers determined that, like other hantaviruses, the virus that causes HPS is not transmitted from person to person the way other infections, such as the common cold, may be. The exception to this is an outbreak of HPS in Argentina in 1996.
They are also the cause of severe fever with thrombocytopenia syndrome. Hanta virus or Hantavirus Hemorrhagic fever, common in Korea, Scandinavia, Russia, and western North America, is associated with high fever, lung edema and pulmonary failure. Mortality is around 55%. The antibody reaction plays an important role in decreasing levels of viremia
Hantavirus Pulmonary Syndrome. Hantavirus pulmonary syndrome (HAN-tuh-vy-rus PUL-mo-nar-ee SIN-drome) is a lung disease that causes respiratory distress (breathing difficulty) and, in some cases, death. Hantavirus, the virus that causes the disease, is carried by rodents. Mice and rats shed hantavirus in their saliva, urine, and droppings. The rice rat (seen here) primarily inhabits the southeastern United States and carries the Bayou virus, a form of the disease that has been found in Louisiana.
Hantavirus pulmonary syndrome (HPS) is a lung infection caused by viruses found in the saliva, urine, and droppings of some rodents. The illness is rare but can be deadly. The first known outbreak of HPS in the United States occurred in 1993. 
Causes. Each type of hantavirus has a preferred rodent carrier. The deer mouse is the primary carrier of the virus responsible for most cases of hantavirus pulmonary syndrome in North America. Other hantavirus carriers include the white-tailed mouse, cotton rat and rice rat
While the hantaviruses spread by rodents in the United States cause a respiratory infection, those spread by rodents in other parts of the world cause a different kind of illness. In Asia, Europe and some parts of Central and South America, hantaviruses can cause hemorrhagic fever with renal syndrome (HFRS). More recently, cases of HPS have been documented in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Paraguay, and Uruguay, where the illness is caused by different strains of hantavirus, spread to people by several distinct species of rodents, according to the Centers for Disease Control (CDC).
The new virus was called Muerto Canyon virus — later changed to Sin Nombre virus (SNV) — and the new disease caused by the virus was named hantavirus pulmonary syndrome, or HPS. The isolation of the virus in a matter of months was remarkable. Researchers determined that, like other hantaviruses, the virus that causes HPS is not transmitted from person to person the way other infections, such as the common cold, may be. The exception to this is an outbreak of HPS in Argentina in 1996.