The Bulldog is a muscular, heavy dog with a wrinkled face and a distinctive pushed-in nose. The American Kennel Club (AKC), The Kennel Club (UK), and the United Kennel Club (UKC) oversee breeding standards. Bulldogs are the 5th most popular purebreed in the United States in 2013 according to the American Kennel Club. There they wrote the first standard of perfection for the breed. In 1894 the two top Bulldogs, King Orry and Dockleaf, competed in a contest to see which dog could walk 20 miles (32 km). King Orry was reminiscent of the original Bulldogs, lighter boned and very athletic.
ORIGIN AND HISTORY. To say that the French Bulldog is a purely French breed is a bit of a misnomer. Bulldogs were at the height of their popularity in England the 1860s, and small varieties of that breed were especially popular in the lace-making region of the English midlands. 
In the UK, the breed standards are 23 kg (50 lb) for a male and 18 kg (40 lb) for a female. In the United States, a typical mature male weighs 20 to 25 kg (45 to 55 lb), while mature females weigh about 20 kg (45 lb). The American Kennel Club recommends the average weight of a bulldog to be 18 to 23 kg (40 to 50 lb). Bulldogs are one of the few breeds whose tail is naturally short and either straight or screwed and thus is not cut or docked as with some other breeds. There they wrote the first standard of perfection for the breed. In 1894 the two top Bulldogs, King Orry and Dockleaf, competed in a contest to see which dog could walk 20 miles (32 km). King Orry was reminiscent of the original Bulldogs, lighter boned and very athletic.
General Appearance. The French Bulldog has the appearance of an active, intelligent, muscular dog of heavy bone, smooth coat, compactly built, and of medium or small structure. Expression alert, curious, and interested. Any alteration other than removal of dewclaws is considered mutilation and is a disqualification
Bulldog breeds is a collective name for various breeds of dog of a particular type, also known as bull breeds. In response to the health problems associated with many short-muzzled dog breeds, particularly the English bulldog, a number of breeders offer alternative bulldogs, some of which are true-breeding lineages, and some are first-generation crosses between two established breeds.
All About Bulldogs. The Bulldog is a small statured, medium-sized dog, and as its name suggests, it was originally bred for working with bulls. More to the point, the Bulldog was trained and bred to fight bulls for sport, beginning in England in the 1200s and throughout Europe until the mid 1800s. The average lifespan for a Bulldog is between 8 and 12 years. It is a member of the brachycephalic breed class, meaning that is has a short head and snout. This physical characteristic can lead to a number of possible health challenges, including those of the nose, eyes, teeth, and respiratory system.