Technically speaking, an intrusion is any formation of intrusive igneous rock; rock formed from magma that cools and solidifies within the crust of the planet. In contrast, an extrusion consists of extrusive rock; rock formed above the surface of the crust. Intrusive structures are often classified according to whether or not they are parallel to the bedding planes or foliation of the country rock: if the intrusion is parallel the body is concordant, otherwise it is discordant. A well-known example of an intrusion is Devils Tower.
Magma slowly pushes up from deep within the earth into any cracks or spaces it can find, sometimes pushing existing country rock out of the way, a process that can take millions of years. As the rock slowly cools into a solid, the different parts of the magma crystallize into minerals. Intrusive structures are often classified according to whether or not they are parallel to the bedding planes or foliation of the country rock: if the intrusion is parallel the body is concordant, otherwise it is discordant. A well-known example of an intrusion is Devils Tower.
noun. The definition of an intrusion is an unwelcome interruption or a situation where somewhere private has an unwelcome visit or addition. When you are having a quiet nap in your backyard and your neighbor's dog comes in uninvited and jumps all over you to wake you up, this is an example of an intrusion. Noun. (plural intrusions). 1  The forcible inclusion or entry of an external group or individual; the act of intruding. ( 2 geology) Magma forced into other rock formations; the rock formed when such magma solidifies.
Definition of INTRUSION. 1. : the act of intruding or the state of being intruded; especially: the act of wrongfully entering upon, seizing, or taking possession of the property of another. 2. : the forcible entry of molten rock or magma into or between other rock formations; also: the intruded magma. See intrusion defined for kids.
Igneous Intrusions. Igneous intrusions form when magma cools and solidifies before it reaches the surface. Three common types of intrusion are sills, dykes, and batholiths (see image below). form when magma intrudes between the rock layers, forming a horizontal or gently-dipping sheet of igneous rock. 
An intrusion is an igneous rock body that forms from crystallized magma under Earth's surface. Intrusive structures are often classified according to whether or not they are parallel to the bedding planes or foliation of the country rock: if the intrusion is parallel the body is concordant, otherwise it is discordant. A well-known example of an intrusion is Devils Tower.
1. the act or an instance of intruding; an unwelcome visit, interjection, etc: an intrusion on one's privacy. 2. (Geological Science). a. the movement of magma from within the earth's crust into spaces in the overlying strata to form igneous rock. [ɪnˈtruːʒən] n → intrusion f. I hope you don't mind this intrusion → J'espere espère que vous me pardonnerez cette. intrusion an intrusion into'sb s → privacy un atteinte a à la vie privee. Privée de qn it was an unthinkable intrusion into → Our'private life c etait était une atteinte a à notre vie. privee privée tout a à fait impensable
An intrusion detection system (IDS) is a device or software application that monitors network or system activities for malicious activities or policy violations and produces reports to a management station. IDS come in a variety of “flavors” and approach the goal of detecting suspicious traffic in different ways. Though they both relate to network security, an intrusion detection system (IDS) differs from a firewall in that a firewall looks outwardly for intrusions in order to stop them from happening. Firewalls limit access between networks to prevent intrusion and do not signal an attack from inside the network.
The solidification of such injected magma leads to the formation of intrusive rock. (2) An intrusion is a geological body composed of igneous rock and formed in the process of injection and solidification of mag-matic melt in the earth’s crust (intrusion, intrusive body, plutonic intrusion). In relation to the structure of the country rock, intrusions are classified as concordant and discordant. Intrusions are classified according to the depths at which the magmatic intrusion occurred as deep-seated intrusions (abyssal) and shallow-depth intrusions (hypabyssal). In this context the conditions of cooling of the magma and its effect on surrounding rock differ sharply.