Peristalsis. The process of wave-like muscle contractions of the alimentary tract that moves food along.peristalsis. (Science: gastroenterology, physiology) The wormlike movement by which the alimentary canal or other tubular organs provided with both longitudinal and circular muscle fibres propel their content
Definition of PERISTALSIS. : successive waves of involuntary contraction passing along the walls of a hollow muscular structure (as the esophagus or intestine) and forcing the contents onward. See peristalsis defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. : successive waves of involuntary contraction passing along the walls of a hollow muscular structure (as the esophagus or intestine) and forcing the contents onward—compare segmentation 2.
Noun. 1. peristalsis-the process of wavelike muscle contractions of the alimentary tract that moves food along. vermiculation. bodily function, bodily process, body process, activity-an organic process that takes place in the body; respiratory activity. peristalsis. n, pl-ses (-siːz). 1. (Physiology) physiol the succession of waves of involuntary muscular contraction of various bodily tubes, esp of the alimentary tract, where it effects transport of food and waste products. [C19: from New Latin, from peri- + Greek stalsis compression, from stellein to press together].
Peristalsis is a radially symmetrical contraction and relaxation of muscles which propagates in a wave down the muscular tube, in an anterograde fashion. In humans, peristalsis is found in the contraction of smooth muscles to propel contents through the digestive tract. 
noun. The involuntary constriction and relaxation of the muscles of the intestine or another canal, creating wave-like movements which push the contents of the canal forward. Example sentences. 1  Yoga helps your body reabsorb and expel gas by stimulating peristalsis, the muscle contractions that eliminate waste. 1 Yoga helps your body reabsorb and expel gas by stimulating peristalsis, the muscle contractions that eliminate waste. 2  Waves of muscle contractions called peristalsis force food down through the esophagus to the stomach.
Peristalsis is a radially symmetrical contraction and relaxation of muscles which propagates in a wave down a muscular tube, in an anterograde fashion. In humans, peristalsis is found in the contraction of smooth muscles to propel contents through the digestive tract. It is wave contraction of longitudinal and circular muscles preceded by wave relaxation of these muscles. Earthworms use a similar mechanism to drive their locomot
Peristalsis: The rippling motion of muscles in the digestive tract. In the stomach, this motion mixes food with gastric juices, turning it into a thin liquid. 
peristalsis. the wormlike movement by which the alimentary canal or other tubular organs with both longitudinal and circular muscle fibers propel their contents, consisting of a wave of contraction passing along the tube. adj., adj peristal´tic. When food is swallowed, it passes into the esophagu