The sciatic nerve innervates most of the hind limb. As is the case with many of the large nerves of the vertebrate nervous system, the sciatic nerve is a mixed-function nerve, meaning it is made up of the axons of sensory and motor neurons. The sciatic nerve gives rise to branches as it progresses distally along the hind limb.
Unipolar Neurons. Sensory neuron with a single process or extension that divides in a T manner forming peripheral and central pathways; associated with sensory receptors (touch, pressure, etc). Dendrite. Extension of the neuron that transmits impulses to the cell body; often branched extensively. 
Two general types of cells are found in the nervous system: neurons and neuroglia. A. Neurons 1. Consist of three main parts—dendrites (conduct impulses to cell body of neuron); cell body of neuron; and axon (conducts impulses away from cell body of neuron) 2. The nervous system transmits information rapidly by means of nerve impulses conducted from one body area to another. The nervous system is made up of the brain and spinal cord, and the many nerves of the body. Its two principal divisions are the central nervous system and the peripheral nervous system.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Sensory neurons are nerve cells that transmit sensory information (sight, sound, feeling, etc.). They are activated by sensory input, and send projections to other elements of the nervous system, ultimately conveying sensory information to the brain or spinal cord.
They follow ascending, or afferent pathways, so called ‘ afferent neurons ’. The cell body of the sensory neurons is located in the peripheral sensory ganglia, in the peripheral nervous system. Sensory neurons are unipolar neurons with afferent fibers, which extend between sensory receptors and central nervous system. Neurons can be classified based on their function as sensory neurons, motor neurons, and interneurons. Sensory Neurons. Sensory neurons convey sensory impulses from sensory organs toward the central nervous system, which includes the spinal cord and brain.
Anterior root. The structure composed of axons of motor (efferent) neurons that emerges from the anterior aspect of the spinal cord and extends laterally to join a posterior root, forming a spinal nerve. Also called a ventral root.   .
A nerve is an enclosed, cable-like bundle of axons (nerve fibers, the long and slender projections of neurons) in the peripheral nervous system. A nerve provides a common pathway for the electrochemical nerve impulses that are transmitted along each of the axons to peripheral organs. 1 Afferent nerves conduct signals from sensory neurons to the central nervous system, for example from the mechanoreceptors in skin. 2  Efferent nerves conduct signals from the central nervous system along motor neurons to their target muscles and glands.
A motor neuron (or motoneuron) is a nerve cell (neuron) whose cell body is located in the spinal cord and whose fiber (axon) projects outside the spinal cord to directly or indirectly control effector organs, mainly muscles and glands. When a muscle is stretched, sensory neurons within the muscle spindle detect the degree of stretch and send a signal to the CNS. The CNS activates alpha motor neurons in the spinal cord, which cause extrafusal muscle fibers to contract and thereby resist further stretching.
Motor neurons' axons are efferent nerve fibers that carry signals from the spinal cord to the effectors to produce effects. Types of motor neurons are alpha motor neurons, beta motor neurons, and gamma motor neurons. When a muscle is stretched, sensory neurons within the muscle spindle detect the degree of stretch and send a signal to the CNS. The CNS activates alpha motor neurons in the spinal cord, which cause extrafusal muscle fibers to contract and thereby resist further stretching.
There are upper motor neurons and lower motor neurons, with the cell type described above being a lower motor neuron. Upper motor neurons are cortico-spinal interneurons that arise from the motor cortex and descend to the spinal cord where they activate the lower motor neurons through synapses. When a muscle is stretched, sensory neurons within the muscle spindle detect the degree of stretch and send a signal to the CNS. The CNS activates alpha motor neurons in the spinal cord, which cause extrafusal muscle fibers to contract and thereby resist further stretching.