Sections. A dorsal nerve root – also known as a posterior nerve root – is a main bundle of nerve fibers that branches off the spinal cord and goes to other areas of the body. Dorsal nerve roots are responsible for carrying signals of sensation (such as feelings of pain and temperature) from the body to the brain. 
Before talking about causes of pain to the top of the foot, lets review the anatomy. The top of the foot consists of bones (talus, navicular, cuneiforms, cuboid, metatarsals), several small arteries, small nerves, and tendons. So any pain generally is a problem with one or a combination of those anatomic structures. 
The top of the foot is also known as the dorsal aspect of the foot and this describes the entire upper surface of the foot, running from the ankle to the toes. This triggers the inflammatory response which causes the pain and discomfort. Although this is most common in the posterior tibial tendon (more about that condition here) it can potentially occur in any of the foot tendons.
The medial dorsal cutaneous nerve innervates the top inside part of the foot and the intermediate dorsal cutaneous nerve innervates the top outside part of the foot. Any type of pressure on these nerves can, over time, cause discomfort. There are several things that can cause pressure to the dorsal cutaneous nerves. When the dorsal sensory nerve branches get compressed, the top of the foot can experience a range of annoying sensations including those feeling like the top of your foot is being stabbed with a sharp object, a hot poker or tingling like you laid on it wrong.
A metatarsal stress fracture is a small hairline crack that can appear in the metatarsal bone (the long bones on the top of the foot) and is another common cause of pain on top of foot. It occurs due to repetitive strain and trauma to the metatarsals, which over-time leads to the development of a stress fracture. This triggers the inflammatory response which causes the pain and discomfort. Although this is most common in the posterior tibial tendon (more about that condition here) it can potentially occur in any of the foot tendons.
This feature is not available right now. Please try again later. http://podlink.com Pain on the top of the foot can be a number of things, however, tendonitis, neuritis and stress fractures are the most common causes of this complaint. Category. License. 
1 Tendonitis – Tendonitis is a fairly common cause of pain on the dorsal part of foot, but it is more prevalent among athletes due to the wear and tear that is often placed on the tendons. 
A dorsal exostosis (a bone spur on the top of the foot) can put pressure on these nerves as well. Besides the simple alteration of shoes, padding and some physical therapy, little else can be done with this type of neuritis causing condition, as the cause of the condition is within the bone structure. When the dorsal sensory nerve branches get compressed, the top of the foot can experience a range of annoying sensations including those feeling like the top of your foot is being stabbed with a sharp object, a hot poker or tingling like you laid on it wrong.
Lump On Top Of The Foot. A bony lump that can appear on the top of the foot is known as a dorsal exostosis. This lump may become painful and irritated. Ice packs and foot elevation can relieve pain and swelling. There are many different medical conditions that can cause pain to the dorsum of the foot. It is important to see your doctor regarding any pain that is severe or persistent. This will ensure a proper diagnosis and treatment plan.
Ganglion Cyst. As one of the most common causes of pain on top of foot, the ganglion cyst is a small, fluid-filled sac that is ‘lump-like’ in appearance and tends to occur over the area of a joint or tendon. On the top of the foot this is most common near the ankle. The exact cause of the cyst itself is unknown and although painless in itself, the cyst can put pressure on the underlying tissues such as nerves, which can trigger considerable pain. This triggers the inflammatory response which causes the pain and discomfort. Although this is most common in the posterior tibial tendon (more about that condition here) it can potentially occur in any of the foot tendons.