-- leananshae 12/19/2007. I love the name Alessandra and really like this nickname. But whenever I hear the name Alessa, I think of the little girl in the movie Silent Hill. Then again, there are people named Carrie and there is that Stephen King movie called Carrie so I guess it doesn't matter. -- Fire1815 9/8/2008. 
Comments and insights on the name Alessa: | Edit. My mother decided to name me Alessa when she read a magazine article about someone named Alessandra; she just dropped the ndra. I believe it is the Italian version of the name Alexa. A short form of Alexandra (defender or helper of mankind), Alexa is also bestowed as an independent given name and is thus derived from the Greek alexein (to defend, to help). From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. Buy the book.
Alessa /ales-sa/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is of Greek origin, and the meaning of the name Alessa is defender. Alessa is a variant transcription of Alessandra (Greek): Italian and Spanish transcription of Alexandra. Alessa is also a variant of Alexis (Greek): originally a boy's name. Kreatif forms: Alesai, Alesda, Alesra. Alessa is an unusual first name for females. Alessa is also an unusual last name for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Below is a charted comparison of the usage of Alessa and affiliated names.
Here are pictures of people with the name Alessa. Help us put a face to the name by uploading your pictures to BabyNames.com! 
More info about the name Alessa. Alessa is a variant of Alexa, derived from Alexandra. Alexandra originates in Greek language and means protector of humanity. It is a feminine form of Alexander. Saint Alexandra was a martyr of the Diocletianic persecutions. Throughout history, there have been many members of royalty given the name Alexandr
This doesn't mean that the name Alessa is not popular in other countries all over the world. The name might be popular in other countries, in different languages, or even in a different alphabet, as we use the characters from the Latin alphabet to display the data. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Alessa and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Alessa and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The history and meaning of the name Alessa is fascinating, learn more about it
Origin of the name Alexa: A short form of Alexandra (defender or helper of mankind), Alexa is also bestowed as an independent given name and is thus derived from the Greek alexein (to defend, to help). From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. Buy the book.
The different meanings of the name Alessa are: The meaning of the name “Alessa” is different in several languages, countries and cultures and has more than one possibly same or different meanings available. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Alessa and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Alessa and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The history and meaning of the name Alessa is fascinating, learn more about it