$67,000. Average Adjunct Faculty salaries for job postings in Columbia, SC are 1% higher than average Adjunct Faculty salaries for job postings nationwide.
The School of Law has been a leader in experiential and clinical education for more than 40 years beginning with its predecessor Antioch School of Law. Every student completes two 350 hour clinical courses, as well as forty hours of community service. American University, Washington College of Law is seeking applications for Practitioners-in-Residence for academic year 2015-16 in the following in-house clinics: Disability Rights Law Clinic, Domestic Violence Clinic, and International Human Rights Law Clinic.
Columbia University Adjunct Lecturer Salary. Columbia University Adjunct Lecturer average salary is $66,976, median salary is $68,640 with a salary range from $54,080 to $89,440. Columbia University Adjunct Lecturer salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position. Columbia University Adjunct Lecturer salary statistics is not exclusive and is for reference only. They are presented as is and updated regularly.
Columbia University Adjunct Asst Professor salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position. Columbia University Adjunct Asst Professor salary statistics is not exclusive and is for reference only. They are presented as is and updated regularly. Columbia University Adjunct Asst Professor salary is full-time annual starting salary. Intern, contractor and hourly pay scale vary from regular exempt employee. Compensation depends on work experience, job location, bonus, benefits and other factors.
In California, where faculty at two-and four-year public institutions are unionized, the average pay is $3,888 per course, according to data reported to the Adjunct Project as of last month. In Texas, by contrast, a state where unions are rare, the reported pay is lower: $2,805 per course. Many adjuncts have also indicated that they are essentially shut out of participating in most forms of governance. The overall average pay reported by adjuncts is $2,987 per three-credit course. Adjuncts at 16 colleges reported earning less than $1,000. The highest pay reported is $12,575, in the anthropology department at Harvard University
Lecturer in Law. Susan E. Amron is Chief of the Environmental Law Division of the New York City Law Department and has practiced environmental law for the City for more than 20 years. Charles B. Anderson. Barbara R. Arnwine. Lecturer in Law. Barbara R. Arnwine, president & founder of Transformative Justice Coalition, is internationally renowned for contributions on critical justice issues including the passage of the landmark Civil Rights Act of 1991 and the 2006 reauthorization of provisions of the Voting Rights Act.
Columbia University Adjunct Asst Professor average salary is $101,323, median salary is $101,920 with a salary range from $66,227 to $180,960. Columbia University Adjunct Asst Professor salary is full-time annual starting salary. Intern, contractor and hourly pay scale vary from regular exempt employee. Compensation depends on work experience, job location, bonus, benefits and other factors.
Yet even within that category, pay differs widely. The average per-course pay reported for adjuncts at Ohio State University is $4,853, compared with an average of $6,500 reported at the University of Michigan at Ann Arbor. Harvard pays adjuncts $11,037, on average, according to the data that adjuncts have submitted so far. Many adjuncts have also indicated that they are essentially shut out of participating in most forms of governance. The overall average pay reported by adjuncts is $2,987 per three-credit course. Adjuncts at 16 colleges reported earning less than $1,000. The highest pay reported is $12,575, in the anthropology department at Harvard University