That depends. For example, if the circuit is consisted of two resistors, 2 ohms each, the equivalent resistance (Req) of these two resistors in series is 4 ohms, and the Req o … f these two resistors in parallel is 1 ohm. If the same voltage is applied, say 4 V. power consumed in a resistance = V2/R. Yes you would use a serial circuit You would use parallel circuit lights for a Christmas tree because if you used series circuit lights, and one of the bulb blows, the rest o … f the bulbs will go out.
In a series circuit, the current through each of the components is the same, and the voltage across the circuit is the sum of the voltages across each component. In a parallel circuit, the voltage across each of the components is the same, and the total current is the sum of the currents through each component. Consider a very simple circuit consisting of four light bulbs and one 6 V battery. Components connected in parallel are connected so the same voltage is applied to each component. A circuit composed solely of components connected in series is known as a series circuit; likewise, one connected completely in parallel is known as a parallel circuit.
power lines image by Edsweb from Fotolia.com. A parallel circuit is an electrical circuit which has two or more paths for an electrical charge to flow through. The parallel circuit is the standard electrical circuit found in most homes and devices. Because it provides more than one way for a current to flow through to a device, it creates a much more stable and efficient power system than would otherwise be possible. The uses of the parallel circuit are manifold. Parallel circuits are used inside many electrical devices and appliances. The main reason parallel circuitry is used in this context is to take advantage of more than one power source, like when more than one battery is being used in a portable device.
1 A parallel circuit has two or more paths for current to flow through. 2  Voltage is the same across each component of the parallel circuit. 3  The sum of the currents through each path is equal to the total current that flows from the source. 4  You can find total resistance in a Parallel circuit with the following formula: A Parallel circuit is one with several different paths for the electricity to travel. It's like a river that has been divided up into smaller streams, however, all the streams come back to the same point to form the river once again. The parallel circuit has very different characteristics than a series circuit. For one, the total resistance of a Parallel Circuit is NOT equal to the sum of the resistors (like in a series circuit). The total resistance in a parallel circuit is always less than any of the branch resistances.
A parallel circuit is used in a strand of Christmas lights so that if one bulb goes out, the rest don't. A parallel circuit is also used in circuit breakers of houses. A series circuit is used in a flashlight. Yes you would use a serial circuit You would use parallel circuit lights for a Christmas tree because if you used series circuit lights, and one of the bulb blows, the rest o … f the bulbs will go out.
The Parallel Circuit. A parallel circuit has more than one resistor (anything that uses electricity to do work) and gets its name from having multiple (parallel) paths to move along. 