1 Brightly–colored flowers that are tubular hold the most nectar, and are particularly attractive to hummingbirds. 2  These include perennials such as bee balms, columbines, daylilies, and lupines; biennials such as foxgloves and hollyhocks; and many annuals, including cleomes, impatiens, and petunias. For centuries, gardeners have been fascinated with the beauty and aerobatics of hummingbirds. This article will show which types of plants will attract hummingbirds and how to create a friendly environment for them in your garden.
Attracting Hummingbirds. The key to attracting hummingbirds to your yard is to plant lots of flowers and provide the habitat that will give them shade, shelter, food, and security. 1  Herbs, flowering shrubs, dwarf trees, and vines all can be used to create an ideal tiered habitat from ground level to 10 feet or more. For centuries, gardeners have been fascinated with the beauty and aerobatics of hummingbirds. This article will show which types of plants will attract hummingbirds and how to create a friendly environment for them in your garden.
Diversity of Nectar Plants – Ruby-throated hummingbirds feed on small insects and nectar. To attract hummingbirds, include a variety of flowering plants that provide nectar throughout the warmer months. Ruby-throated hummingbirds prefer the nectar from bright, tubular flowers, such as crossvine, Carolina jessamine, and red buckeye. 
Top 10 Hummingbird Plants. Hummingbirds require wooded areas for nesting and cover close by. To attract them to your garden try these Florida Friendly Favorites available at your Florida Home Depot Garden Center in the season they are in bloom. 
Attract them to your backyard with our recommendations on plants and flowers that attract hummingbirds and gardening tips and tricks from our experts. Print. 
Plants that attract hummingbirds often have brightly-colored, tubular-shaped flowers that make is easy for hummingbirds to feed on nectar. These hummingbird plants contain include bulbs, perennials and wildflowers that will attract hummingbirds to your garden. Learn more about Gardening for hummingbirds. View as Grid List. 
Flowering herbs, shrubs, vines, and trees provide additional food for hummingbirds and attract them to specific areas. Your plantings should include a variety of plants that flower from May through early September. This will ensure food is available throughout the time hummingbirds are present. Hummingbirds get nectar from plants, and plants get pollinated by hummingbirds. When the birds feed from flowers, they brush against them, and the pollen sticks to their heads and throats.
Many different types of flowers are attractive to hummingbirds. When planning your hummingbird garden, consult a local nursery or landscape specialist about which blooms are best for your region and the characteristics of your yard. The most popular hummingbird flowers include: 1  Bleeding Hearts. 2  Columbine. 3  Desert Trumpet. 
In the following list of flowers commonly used for attracting hummingbirds, you'll see lots of red flowers, but also flowers in purple, white, orange, pink and blue. They're all rich in nectar, the hummingbird food par excellence. Nor is the diversity of plants for attracting hummingbirds restricted to color. Annuals and perennials, vines, shrubs, trees, bedding plants and hanging plants: you can choose from all these categories in selecting flowers for attracting hummingbirds. It is one of those happy coincidences in life: many of the plants adept at attracting our attention are also considered among the best flowers to attract hummingbirds, hungry for the food that they bear.