In addition to the requirements for the Level I, you must have: Enrolled in a NYS Registered Program-Teacher Preparation College Coursework - 18 semester hours New York State Teacher Certification Exam-ATAS Experience as a NYS Licensed Teaching Assistant - 1 Year. Requiement for a Level 1 Below is a list of the requirements that you need to satisfy in order to obtain the Teaching Assistant – Level 1 certificate and a description of each requirement.
You'll need to the ability to work closely with parents and teachers. You'll also need good literacy and numeracy skills, as well as creative ideas for activities. To do this job, you will usually need some experience of working with children. Qualifications in early years work will also be helpful. Working hours and conditions. Full-time teaching assistants work up to 40 hours a week, during term time, with a typical day starting between 8.30am and 9.15am and finishing around 3.15pm to 4pm. You might also take part in other activities such as school outings, staff meetings and training, which could mean working extra hours
The median annual wage for teacher assistants was $23,640 in May 2012. The median wage is the wage at which half the workers in an occupation earned more than that amount and half earned less. The lowest 10 percent earned less than $17,180, and the top 10 percent earned more than $36,680. Student enrollment in public and private elementary and secondary schools is expected to increase from 2012 to 2022. Because teacher assistants work directly with students, the increase in the number of students will spur demand for teacher assistants.
The average hourly pay for all teaching assistant roles is around $10.50 per hour, but will vary by experience and location. Teaching assistants with a significant amount of experience can expect to earn up to $16 per hour. Education requirements. Many teacher assistants need only a high school diploma and on-the-job training. However, a college degree or related coursework in child development may lead to more job opportunities.
In addition to the requirements for the Level I, you must have: College coursework - 18 semester hours Experience as a NYS Licensed Teaching Assistant - 1 Year Citizenship Status-INS Permanent Residence or U.S. Citizenship. Requiement for a Level 1 Below is a list of the requirements that you need to satisfy in order to obtain the Teaching Assistant – Level 1 certificate and a description of each requirement.
To be a special needs teaching assistant, you would need to have: 1  an interest in education and in working with children. 2  good communication and 'people' skills. 3  the ability to work well as part of a team. 4  good literacy and numeracy skills. 5  tact and sensitivity. 6  a responsible attitude. You are likely to need some experience to find paid work. A good way of getting this experience is by volunteering in your local school. To be a special needs teaching assistant you will need to be patient, and firm when necessary. You must also be willing to help with children’s personal needs
Career paths for teacher assistants. In order to make your way up the ladder, you'll need some additional education and work experience. If you're working for a local school district, they'll probably offer tuition reimbursement to help you earn your bachelor’s degree and get your teaching license. Education requirements. Many teacher assistants need only a high school diploma and on-the-job training. However, a college degree or related coursework in child development may lead to more job opportunities.
Work activities. As a teaching assistant you would support teachers and help children with their educational and social development, both in and out of the classroom. Your exact job will depend on the school and the age of the children. Your job may include: Working hours and conditions. Full-time teaching assistants work up to 40 hours a week, during term time, with a typical day starting between 8.30am and 9.15am and finishing around 3.15pm to 4pm. You might also take part in other activities such as school outings, staff meetings and training, which could mean working extra hours.