The good thing about Pond Snails is their cleaning abilities. I love to have them in all of my invert tanks because they are great scavengers. Any leftover food or dead carcass will quickly be eated by these snails. Another thing that I love about pond snails is that they do not grow to a large size. The largest Pond Snail that I have ever seen was maybe a bit over 1/4 in size. Ramshorn Snails can grow to be huge which can really affect a shrimp tank. Pond Snail. By Ryan Wood. The Pond Snail, like the Trumpet Snail, has unfortunately earned itself a bad name. It is considered an aquarium pest, however I disagree when it comes to maintaining an invert tank. The most common mistake people make in an aquarium is overfeeding.
Answer: Sorry to hear that snails are eating your pond plants. While some snails, such as the Japanese Trapdoor Snail, are beneficial to the pond, most snails will devour your pond plants. If snails are eating your plants, then it's a safe bet that you do NOT have the Japanese Trapdoor Snail. As far as fish eating snails, there are some fish that will eat snails. Koi and goldfish are not among the known snail eating fish. I have seen one Internet reference that pond fish
Pond snails can be a beautiful addition to your pond’s ecosystem. Pond snails can be a fun & interesting addition to your pond’s ecosystem. In very large ponds, snails can even be necessary to create a balanced, natural ecosystem. I’m very fond of snails, certainly. Certainly, pond snails will get rid of some algae in the pond, and some of the debris. However, they will not have a significant effect on the problems that most pond owners face with water health.
Some species of pond snails can reach a shell size of up to 7 cm. That makes them considerably larger than the Roman snail (Helix pomatia), the largest European terrestrial snail. Similar to frogs, pond snails can also cover part of their oxygen needs by tissue breathing. - Galba truncatula. A very small snail, whose shell whorls are set apart like stair steps. Usually, the shell is between 6 and 8 mm high, but there are also dwarf and giant forms between 3 and 15 mm. The lesser pond snail lives in small and tiny water bodies, such as moats and puddles.
Japanese Trapdoor Snails are one of the few snail varieties that can over-winter well and survive in harsher northern climates. Japanese Trapdoor Snails are a great asset in helping keep algae under control in your pond and water garden as they groom plants, planting-pots and water garden rocks and walls.
Pond snails (Lymnaeidae) are a family of gastropods quite common in European rivers, lakes and ponds. The large freshwater snails also live in garden ponds and aquaria. There they are often introduced involuntarily with water plants, but also many people like to have them and so put them into their ponds on purpose. - Galba truncatula. A very small snail, whose shell whorls are set apart like stair steps. Usually, the shell is between 6 and 8 mm high, but there are also dwarf and giant forms between 3 and 15 mm. The lesser pond snail lives in small and tiny water bodies, such as moats and puddles.
The wisdom is generally that pond snails eat algae and some organic debris. They’re the little scavenging janitors of your pond. In a well-kept pond, though, I disagree with this view. Certainly, pond snails will get rid of some algae in the pond, and some of the debris. However, they will not have a significant effect on the problems that most pond owners face with water health. They won’t help with green water
Pond snails have also been important to genetic research. Using the example of the Wandering pond snail (Radix labiata, formerly Lymnaea peregra) the American geneticist Alfred Henry Sturtevant (1891-1970) proved how the coiling of the snail shell works. - Galba truncatula. A very small snail, whose shell whorls are set apart like stair steps. Usually, the shell is between 6 and 8 mm high, but there are also dwarf and giant forms between 3 and 15 mm. The lesser pond snail lives in small and tiny water bodies, such as moats and puddles.
I cant load the link but if it is a pond snail and there is more than one they will take over the tank if you let them. I would say that there are roughly 100 of them in my 10g feeder tank. I dont think they eat plants as I have the tank heavily planted. 
Like the Roman snail, pond snails also are hermaphrodites. Contrary to their terrestrial relative, pond snails have separate genital openings, so mating can only occur in one direction, not vice-versa. The characteristic egg batches of pond snails (see picture on the left) are stuck to water plants and stones. - Galba truncatula. A very small snail, whose shell whorls are set apart like stair steps. Usually, the shell is between 6 and 8 mm high, but there are also dwarf and giant forms between 3 and 15 mm. The lesser pond snail lives in small and tiny water bodies, such as moats and puddles.