Best Answer: I am a concrete worker, and the answer is yes. It helps with the drainage, and also with the settling of the concrete, so the cracks are minimal. You want 4 inches of gravel under 4 inches of concrete. Any less concrete and you will have problems in the near future. Dig down 8 inches in your backyard the size of the pad you are pouring. Put 4 inches of gravel in and smooth. Pour the concrete over the gravel and finish. 
You could put down either a concrete or gravel pad. We need a solid base of either gravel or concrete and can not put the sheds on a concrete block because the shed is backed in with a trailer so we would not be able to get it onto the concrete pad if it was not for that than a concrete block would be great. You could place 6 of gravel down and get 6x6 and frame out around the perimeter of the shed. It is important to think about the type of shed foundations available and which one will work best for your property before you make a purchase online.
If you are just pouring a Slab without footings it is very important that you have firmly packed gravel, 4-6 and then about 6 of 3/4 stone, the 3/4 stone will allow the slab to float, and move, rather than crack when the gravel shifts. MichaeMike · 6 years ago. Thumbs up. 2. Thumbs down. 2. 1 comment. Loading ... If the soils are wet, or have a great deal of clay and therefore do not drain well, sand will actually keep moisture close to the underside of the slab by capillary action. You do not want this. Gravel provides pockets or voids for the water to travel down away from the concrete.
Mix the concrete and pour it into the forms. Using a board long enough to reach from form to form, screed the surface: Drag the board, using a side-to-side motion as you move it across the length of the pad. Repeat until the surface is fairly level and has no low spots. Step 4. 
Fill the area with about 4 inches of gravel. This will be the base for your gravel pad. Even out the gravel using a rake. The entire foundation needs to be perfectly smooth. Lay a plastic vapor barrier over the gravel pad to finish off the foundation for the shed. You are now ready to pour the concrete. Pour the concrete directly over the gravel and even it out with your rake. Add extra dirt to the spot of your gravel pad to build it up from the main ground. The ground should slope away consistently for about 10 feet. This allows for drainage within the shed. Stake off the mound of dirt. Place stakes at all corners of the mound and then add batter boards. Your gravel will go inside this area.
Another option to help the gravel pad and this is more so for larger storage buildings would be to add a concrete pier below the frost line which varies from location to location depending on the county codes and then fill it in with gravel between and flush up to the top of the pier. You could place 6 of gravel down and get 6x6 and frame out around the perimeter of the shed. It is important to think about the type of shed foundations available and which one will work best for your property before you make a purchase online.
Choose between a gravel pad for your shed or a concrete pad on a shed or garage. On larger two, three of four car garages and two-story buildings we provide directions on preparing a concrete pad. 
All that is necessary to install the EZ Pad is a level well-drained area. No concrete is required! EZ Pads are perfect for hot tub decks, spa decks, and hot tub platforms. The material under the spa pad can be grass, dirt, sand, gravel, crushed rock or granite. 
A concrete slab is going to be way more expensive than a gravel pad, but this is not why we would say get a gravel pad. Water will just rest on a concrete pad vs. a gravel pad and especially the 3/4 gravel pad which will let water drain right through the foundation helping protect your building. You could place 6 of gravel down and get 6x6 and frame out around the perimeter of the shed. It is important to think about the type of shed foundations available and which one will work best for your property before you make a purchase online.