The name was taken from the Rowan tree. -- Kae Kae 6/9/2005. For boys, Rowan is used with the Gaelic little red one meaning and origin behind it. For girls, though, the name came into use because of the tree, and is not in relation to the Gaelic background and English male name, Rowan. The name Rowan is derived from the Old Norse name for the tree, raun or rogn. Linguists believe that the Norse name is ultimately derived from a proto-Germanic word *raudnian meaning getting red and which referred to the red foliage and red berries in the autumn. (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rowan).
Meanings and history of the name Rowan : | Edit. The Rowan tree, or Mountain Ash, is a flowering tree with red berries. In European mythology, the Rowan tree is believed to have protective and magical properties, preventing a witch's hexes. It is also one of the favored woods to be used as a stake against vampires. 
Meanings and history of the name Rowan : | Edit. The Rowan tree, or Mountain Ash, is a flowering tree with red berries. In European mythology, the Rowan tree is believed to have protective and magical properties, preventing a witch's hexes. 
The meaning of the name Rowan: From The Rowan Tree. The origin of the name Rowan: English. People who like the name Rowan also like: Liam, Owen, Oliver, Noah, Gavin, Asher, Declan. Charlotte, Scarlett, Olivia, Violet, Ava, Amelia, Ella. Notes: A Euro-Asian tree with orange berry-like fruits. 
Meaning of Rowan. English name. In English, the name Rowan means-From the rowan tree.. Other origins for the name Rowan include-English, Irish, Gaelic, Irish.The name Rowan is most often used as a boy name or male name. English Name Meaning-From the rowan tree.
[ 2 syll. ro-wan, row-an ] The baby boy name Rowan is sometimes used as a girl name. Its pronunciation is R OW-ahN in English †. Rowan is largely used in the English and Irish languages, and its origin is Celtic. The name is of the meaning little ruddy one, little red-haired one. The name is derived from the surname, itself Anglicized from the Irish Gaelic nickname Ruadhan ruadhán 'meaning little-red haired' one and of The 'gaelic'. ruadh
Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Rowan and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Rowan and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. 
Rowan /row-an/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name (also used less generally as girls' name Rowan) is of Gaelic origin, and the meaning of Rowan is little red-head. Also the name of a flowering tree with red berries. Kreatif forms: Rawan, Riwan, Rywan. [ more ]. Displayed below is the baby name popularity of Rowan for boys. Rowan entered the list in 1999 and reached its top rank of #239 in the U.S. in the year 2014. (Top 1000 Birth Names Statistics, 2014). Rohan (#633 in 2014) and Rowen (#787) are the prominent related forms of Rowan (#239 in 2014) .
What does Rowan mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Rowan is of Irish origin. The meaning of Rowan is tree with red berries, little redhead. It is also of English origin, where its meaning is from the rowan tree. Rowan is used as both a boys and girls name. It consists of 5 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Ro-wan. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 412 in baby name popularity for girls with 770 occurrences.
The name Rowan is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Rowan is: From the rowan tree. American Meaning: The name Rowan is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Rowan is: From the rowan tree. Gaelic Meaning: The name Rowan is a Gaelic baby name. In Gaelic the meaning of the name Rowan is: Red. Rowan tree (a type of ash tree).