EHF was laboratory confirmed by CDC and the Kenya Medical Research Institute. CDC has confirmed that the virus is the Ebola-Sudan strain (incubation period 2-21 days), one of three previously recognized Ebola virus strains known to cause human disease. For related information regarding travel, please see the CDC Travelers’ Health Web site. 
After four to six days on average, symptoms of Ebola can begin. The period between the transmission of the virus and the start of symptoms is called the incubation period. For Ebola, the incubation period can be as short as 2 days or as long as 21 days.
(NaturalNews) A jaw-dropping report released by the World Health Organization on October 14, 2014 reveals that 1 in 20 Ebola infections has an incubation period longer than the 21 days which has been repeatedly claimed by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control. Here’s the actual language from the report: 95% of confirmed cases have an incubation period in the range of 1 to 21 days; 98% have an incubation period that falls within the 1 to 42 day interval.
8. The incubation period, or the time interval from infection to onset of symptoms, is from 2 to 21 days. People are not contagious until they develop symptoms. Ebola virus disease infections can only be confirmed through laboratory testing. 
The symptoms of the Ebola thus begin to show up. The period between the Ebola virus entering the body and the symptoms showing up is known as the incubation period. This incubation period of Ebola virus can be as short as 2 days or as long as 21 days. In some cases the symptoms of the Ebola virus can be seen from the fourth or the sixth day itself. For instance For example, the incubation period for Lake Victoria Marburg virusor Zaire Ebola viru s infection in rhesus macaques is between 3 to 16 days; however, for that of guinea pigs it is around 4 to 10 days. More Articles :
Symptoms of Ebola virus disease. The incubation period, that is, the time interval from infection with the virus to onset of symptoms is 2 to 21 days. Humans are not infectious until they develop symptoms. First symptoms are the sudden onset of fever fatigue, muscle pain, headache and sore throat
The ebola incubation period lasts between 2 and 21 days, after which some pretty severe symptoms will be experienced. The dreaded Ebola viral disease, previously named Ebola hemorrhagic fever is a serious disease which kills up to 90% of anyone it infects. Prognosis of Symptoms. The Ebola viral disease carries great risk of death for anyone who becomes infected. Following a period of incubation of between 2 and 21 days, the virus will then cause the infected individual to display a range and variety of symptoms.
Incubation Period. The period of incubation for the Ebola viral disease is usually between 5 and 10 days. However, this period can be extended to 2 to 21 days in total. Prognosis of Symptoms. The Ebola viral disease carries great risk of death for anyone who becomes infected. Following a period of incubation of between 2 and 21 days, the virus will then cause the infected individual to display a range and variety of symptoms.