Like in caraway, fennel seeds too are rich source of dietary fiber. 100 g seeds provide 39.8 g of fiber. Much of this roughage is metabolically inert insoluble fiber, which helps increase bulk of the food by absorbing water throughout the digestive system and easing constipation prolems. Together with flavonoid anti-oxidants, fiber composition of fennel helps protect the colon mucusa from cancers. Fennel seeds compose of health benefiting volatile essential oil compounds such as anethole, limonene, anisic aldehyde, pinene, myrcene, fenchone, chavicol, and cineole.
Fennel seeds are sometimes confused with those of anise, which are similar in taste and appearance, though smaller. Fennel is also used as a flavoring in some natural toothpastes. The seeds are used in cookery and sweet desserts. Many cultures in India and Pakistan (where it is known as saunf in Hindi), Afghanistan, Iran, and the Middle East use fennel seed in their cookery.
Dried fennel seed is an aromatic, anise-flavored spice, brown or green in color when fresh, slowly turning a dull grey as the seed ages. For cooking, green seeds are optimal. The leaves are delicately flavored and similar in shape to those of dill. Fennel is also used as a flavoring in some natural toothpastes. The seeds are used in cookery and sweet desserts. Many cultures in India and Pakistan (where it is known as saunf in Hindi), Afghanistan, Iran, and the Middle East use fennel seed in their cookery.
Dried fennel seeds are oval, greenish-or yellowish-brown in color, about 4/10 inch long by 1/10 inch wide, and resemble tiny watermelons. They emit an agreeable, warm, sweet odor, somewhat similar to that of anise. They even have a licorice taste! By far the most common use of fennel is in pizza sauces and toppings. 
Health benefits of fennel seeds. Fennel symbolizes longevity, courage, and strength. In addition to its use as medicinal values, fennel has many health benefiting nutrients, essential compounds, anti-oxidants, dietary fiber, minerals, and vitamins. Fennel seeds indeed contain numerous flavonoid anti-oxidants like kaempferol and quercetin. Together with flavonoid anti-oxidants, fiber composition of fennel helps protect the colon mucusa from cancers. Fennel seeds compose of health benefiting volatile essential oil compounds such as anethole, limonene, anisic aldehyde, pinene, myrcene, fenchone, chavicol, and cineole.
Fennel is a perennial, pleasant-smelling herb with yellow flowers. It is native to the Mediterranean, but is now found throughout the world. Dried fennel seeds are often used in cooking as an anise-flavored spice. But don’t confuse fennel with anise; though they look and taste similar, they are not the same. Fennel’s dried ripe seeds and oil are used to make medicine. Fennel is used for various digestive problems including heartburn, intestinal gas, bloating, loss of appetite, and colic in infants. It is also used for upper respiratory tract infections, coughs, bronchitis, cholera, backache, bedwetting, and visual problem
Categories: Fennel. Common fennel is the variety from which the oval greenish-brown fennel seeds come. The seeds are available whole and ground and are used in both sweet and savory foods, as well as to flavor many liqueurs. They should be stored in a cool, dark place for no more than six months. 
Fennel seeds might help strengthen bones. Fennel, Foeniculum vulgare, a member of the carrot family, is a hardy perennial native to the Mediterranean. Like its carrot relatives, fennel grows stalks of feathery leaves atop which sit clusters of delicate yellow flowers. Its leaves, stalks, bulbous base and seeds lend a strong licorice-like flavor to vegetables, meats and soup dishes. In some cultures, fennel seeds are eaten after meals as a breath freshener
Fennel seeds. Pronounce it: feh-nell seeds. A dried seed that comes from the fennel herb, fennel seeds look like cumin seeds, only greener, and have an aniseed flavour and a warm, sweet aroma. They're also used in spice mixes such as Chinese five spice and the Indian panch poran. 
Fennel Seeds. Fennel--with its feathery foliage, wonderful flavor, and many uses--is a favorite among herb gardeners. Fennel's lacy texture makes it a valuable garden plant. 