Symptoms. 1  A bull's-eye rash (erythema migrans) at the site of the tick bite is the most definitive sign of Lyme disease infection. 2  This rash usually develops 1 to 2 weeks after a tick bite. 3  Other symptoms may accompany the rash, such as joint pain, fever, chills, or fatigue. Causes. Lyme disease is caused by the bacterium Borrelia burgdorferi, which is transmitted through the bite of a blacklegged tick, also known as a deer tick. Risk Factors. 1  Anyone exposed to deer ticks is at risk for Lyme disease. 2  These ticks thrive in grassy areas that have low sunlight and high humidity.
2006). From 2 to 12% of patients with early Lyme disease may also have anaplasma infection, and 2 to 40% of patients with early Lyme disease may also have babesia infection, depending on the region (Wormser, 2006). The chances that you might get Lyme disease from a single tick bite depend on the type of tick, where you acquired it, and how long it was attached to you. Many types of ticks bite people in the U.S., but only blacklegged ticks transmit the bacteria that cause Lyme disease.
Early Lyme disease. 1  For people ages 8 and older, the number of days the antibiotic is used depends on the antibiotic and the severity of the infection. 2  Doxycycline should not be used to treat pregnant women or children younger than age 8. 1 For Lyme arthritis, oral antibiotics are usually taken for several weeks. 2  If treatment with the oral antibiotic is not successful, an antibiotic may be given intravenously (IV). 3  For facial paralysis with no other nervous system problems, an oral antibiotic for several weeks is usually effective.
If you develop illness within a few weeks of a tick bite, see your health care provider right away. Common symptoms of Lyme disease include a rash, fever, body aches, facial paralysis, and arthritis. Ticks can also transmit other diseases, so it's important to be alert for any illness that follows a tick bite. The chances that you might get Lyme disease from a single tick bite depend on the type of tick, where you acquired it, and how long it was attached to you. Many types of ticks bite people in the U.S., but only blacklegged ticks transmit the bacteria that cause Lyme disease.
Babesiosis is a parasitic disease that is treated with different medications. If your Lyme disease symptoms do not seem to be going away after taking antibiotics, see your health care provider. There is, however, a great deal of misinformation regarding tickborne coinfections on the internet. The chances that you might get Lyme disease from a single tick bite depend on the type of tick, where you acquired it, and how long it was attached to you. Many types of ticks bite people in the U.S., but only blacklegged ticks transmit the bacteria that cause Lyme disease.
Hi Thanks for writing to the forum! Yes Doxycycline can cause both non specific rash —skin discoloration and also hives that itch. However if there is a history of unprotected sex, it would be wise to get a complete STD panel done. Hope this helps. Please let me know if there is any thing else and do keep me posted.
In general, early Lyme disease in adults is treated with doxycycline 100 mg orally twice daily or amoxicillin 500 mg orally three times daily for 20 to 30 days. Doxycycline should not be used in children under age nine years or pregnant women. 
1 Stage 1. 2  In the majority of cases, the first sign of early Lyme disease is the appearance of a bull's-eye skin rash. 3  It usually develops about 1 - 2 weeks after the bite, although it may appear as soon as 3 days, and as late as 1 month. 4  In some cases, it is never detected. The bull's eye rash, which is considered the classic sign of Lyme disease, may take the following course: 1  It can first appear as a pimple-like spot, which expands over the next few days into a purplish circle. 2  The circle may reach up to 6 inches in diameter with a deeper red rim.
Up to 20% of people infected with Lyme disease do not exhibit the rash. On dark-skinned people, the rash may resemble a bruise. In most patients, any rash fades completely after 3 - 4 weeks, although secondary rashes may appear during the later stages of disease. The bull's eye rash, which is considered the classic sign of Lyme disease, may take the following course: 1  It can first appear as a pimple-like spot, which expands over the next few days into a purplish circle. 2  The circle may reach up to 6 inches in diameter with a deeper red rim.
Stages and Symptoms of Lyme Disease. Lyme disease rash is one of the first of many Lyme disease symptoms. They tend to appear in stages and without proper treatment can be disabling. If you get Lyme without the Lyme disease rash be careful to watch for symptoms early on after a tick bite. Lyme disease rash is normally called “bull’s eye rash” but is actually a condition known as erythema migrans (See Figure 1) . It gets its nicknamedue to the classic “bullseye” that appears around the bite. While this happens in some cases, the rash doesn’t appear after every tick bite that causes Lyme.