Most workers who are paid an hourly wage and work more than 40 hours in a 7-day work week must be paid overtime. When paying overtime, a business must pay at least one and one-half times the worker’s regular hourly rate. No. Consult this page on Overtime Pay for information about working more than 40 hours in a week. There ARE limitations on the number of work hours that teen workers under age 18 can work.
Say you make 52k a year. that would be 1k a week. Some businesses consider 45 hours to be a normal work week when you're on a salary. so no matter how many hours you work, you will get 1k a week. If it's 50 hours or 30 hours, you get the same pay. Some places will give you overtime, but that is not the norm
Workers paid on a salary or by commission or piece rate may or may not have to be paid overtime. This must be determined on a case-by-case basis. Please contact your nearest L&I office to get help deciding whether a worker must be paid overtime. No. Consult this page on Overtime Pay for information about working more than 40 hours in a week. There ARE limitations on the number of work hours that teen workers under age 18 can work.
August 23, 2004 will become an important day in the history of overtime pay in the United States. That is the day that new U.S. Department of Labor regulations take effect, governing who is eligible for overtime pay. This change could potentially impact as many as 15 million American workers. The salary basis test-Paying an employee a salary (as opposed to an hourly wage) is still the first measure of whether an employee is deemed exempt. The salary basis will not change-exempt employees will still be required to be paid a salary rather than hourly wage. 2. The salary level test-The salary level test provides an initial determination of whether a job is non-exempt based on the job's compensation
Salary Outlook. Construction workers perform the important task of building our infrastructure, so their median salary – one that’s just over $30,000 – may seem surprising. In 2013, the highest paid in the profession earned $58,900 per year, and the lowest paid earned less than $20,000. The average salary for construction workers in 2013 was $35,020. The metropolitan areas that best pay their construction workers are Leominster, Massachusetts; Gary, Indiana; and Brockton, Massachusetts. 
Since salary constitutes wages at straight time for all hours worked, the employer owes an additional half-time for the hours in excess of 40 in a week. An example follows: Example: A non-exempt employee is paid a salary of $500 per week, and works 50 hours in a given week. Since the agreement is just that the employee will be paid a $500 salary, that sum would cover any number of hours worked. The regular rate for this week is the salary ($500) divided by the 50 hours worked, or $10.00. 
Salary is a fixed amount of money or compensation paid to an employee by an employer in return for work performed. A general rule for comparing periodic salaries to hourly wages is based on a standard 40 hour work week with 50 weeks per year (minus two weeks for vacation). (Example: $40,000/year periodic salary divided by 50 weeks equals $800/week.
But if you work for the government or a larger corporation you will get overtime for any hours worked over 35 hours per week (usually most businesses include 1 hour for lunch a day that is paid if you are salary). Some businesses consider 45 hours to be a normal work week when you're on a salary. so no matter how many hours you work, you will get 1k a week. If it's 50 hours or 30 hours, you get the same pay.
A Construction Laborer earns an average wage of $14.23 per hour. Most people with this job move on to other positions after 20 years in this field. Skills that are associated with high pay for this job are Welding, Cleaning, and Drywall. 