Answers. Best Answer: Cats (felines) are mammals, same as you, same as monkeys, same as horses, dogs, giraffe, hyenas etc. We are all built pretty much on the same basic anatomy.... two upper limbs, two lower ones, head at one end, tail at the other. (yes, humans have a tail). So the locations all those internals organs are about exactly the same in all these mammals. You will find the thyroid, for example at the base of the front of the neck, in them all, and adrenal glands on top of the kidneys inside the abdomen in them all....etc. 
Here is a simple summary of information about the adrenal glands. Information on this page is likely to be appropriate for first-level courses such as AS and A-Level Human Biology, ITEC Anatomy and Physiology, and other courses in Health Sciences. The human body normally* includes. adrenal glands. They are located immediately anterior to the kidneys, and are encased in a connective tissue capsule that is usually partially buried in an island of fat. The adrenal glands lie beneath the peritoneum (that is, they are  retroperitoneal ). 
The adrenal glands (also known as suprarenal glands) are endocrine glands that produce a variety of hormones including adrenaline and the steroids aldosterone and cortisol. They are found above the kidneys and consist of a series of layers with different structure and functions. 
Feline adrenal glands are part of the endocrine system, a three gland system that produces hormones which controls most major functions in your cat's body. The first gland in the chain is called the hypothalimus, which secretes a hormone which tells the pituitary gland how much hormone to create. Most cases of Cushing's Disease in cats is caused by a tumor on the pituitary gland (approximately 80% - called pituitary adenoma-PDH) and the remainder are caused by a tumor on the adrenal gland.
Hypercortisolims is also known as Feline Cushing's Disease. Most cases of Cushing's Disease in cats is caused by a tumor on the pituitary gland (approximately 80% - called pituitary adenoma-PDH) and the remainder are caused by a tumor on the adrenal gland.
Endocrine. Basic Definition: The Endocrine system includes the Thyroid, Thymus, Adrenal gland, and Pancreas which all have glands that secrete hormones, enzymes, and other material which protects against diseases, bacteria, and regulates the body's immune system. The Thyroid (3) is found on either side of the trachea. The Thyroid regulates the immune system and secretes. material to fight against bacteria and any other harmful thing that may enter the body. The Thymus (4 on picture directly above) is a Gland that is located on the surface of the heart.
Adrenal-The adrenal glands are located medial and superior to the kidneys and are bean shaped. The function of the adrenal gland is to raise blood sugar, increase metabolism and to regulate mineral absorption in the kidneys. The Adrenal glands secrete epinephrine, norepinephrine, glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoid. Pancreas-The pancreas is located at the end of the small intestines and is on the right side of the cat. The gland is a light and extends toward the spleen. The function of the pancreas is to raise and lower blood sugar levels with the use of insulin and glucagon. In both the human and to cat the endocrine system is present and serves an important function. The thymus is located in a different spot in cats than it is in humans. In humans the thymus is located behind the sternum and in cats the thymus is located in the mediastinal cavity between the two lung lobes. The difference between an organ and a gland is quite simple.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. In man the location of the adrenal glands is that of directly anterior to the kidneys while the adrenal glands in the fetal pig is found near the aorta towards the cephalic end of the kidneys. There isn't much different in the location of the adrenal gland in a cat and a man. In a man the adrenal gland rests on top of the kidneys. In a cat, it is a bit further from … the kidneys. Answered.
Human endocrine glands are essentially identical to dog and cat endocrine glands, both in structure and function. The endocrine glands include the pituitary gland, thyroid gland, parathyroid glands, pancreas, adrenal glands, ovaries, and testes. The two adrenal glands are located on the top of each kidney. The adrenal glands essentially contain two separate endocrine organs. The outer portion or core of the adrenal gland is called the adrenal cortex.