An organism that is generated through genetic engineering is considered to be a genetically modified organism (GMO). The first GMOs were bacteria generated in 1973 and GM mice in 1974. Insulin-producing bacteria were commercialized in 1982 and genetically modified food has been sold since 1994. Genetic engineering can also be used to remove genetic material from the target organism, creating a gene knockout organism. In Europe genetic modification is synonymous with genetic engineering while within the United States of America it can also refer to conventional breeding methods.
Genetically modified (GM) foods are foods derived from organisms whose genetic material (DNA) has been modified in a way that does not occur naturally, e.g. through the introduction of a gene from a different organism. 
A genetically modified organism (GMO), also known as a transgenic organism, is any organism whose genetic material has been altered using genetic engineering techniques (i.e. genetically engineered organism). Genetically modified crops (GM crops, or biotech crops) are plants used in agriculture, the DNA of which has been modified using genetic engineering techniques. In most cases the aim is to introduce a new trait to the plant which does not occur naturally in the species.
We say that the organism has been genetically modified. Genetic modification works in animals, plants and microorganisms. For example, new genes can be transferred to crop plants to make GM crops. Some GM crops are resistant to certain herbicides (weed killers) while others are resistant to insect pests. Genetic modification, or GM for short, is not the same as cloning. Although cloning techniques are used in genetic engineering, the two things should not be confused.
Definition of Genetic Modification. Genetic modification, also known as genetic engineering or recombinant-DNA technology, was first applied in the 1970s. This technique allows selected individual genes to be transferred from one organism into another and also between non-related species. 
Confidence votes 102. Genetic modification is when you take a beneficial gene, a bit of DNA, from one species and add it to the DNA sequence of another species. The genetically modified subject will use the gene and benefit from it, for example to grow better fruit or be resistant to disease, or to produce insulin. 
CSIRO research programs use both conventional and genetic modification (GM) approaches, with careful consideration being given to the most appropriate technique, or combination of techniques, to achieve the desired goal. Some of our gene technology research produces genetically modified products which provide innovative and unique opportunities for Australian agriculture and consumers.
Genetic Modification. It can be argued that any intervention by humans is a genetic modification of a plant or animal, and some modifications occur by the process of mutation and selection. Humans have been actively genetically modifying plants and animals for thousands of years through selective cross-breeding and domest
sidebarA. Genetic engineering (GE) is the modification of an organism’s genetic composition by artificial means, often involving the transfer of specific traits, or genes, from one organism into a plant or animal of an entirely different species. When gene transfer occurs, the resulting organism is called transgenic or a GMO (genetically modified organism). Genetic engineering is different from traditional cross breeding, where genes can only be exchanged between closely related species.
Genetic engineering, also called genetic modification, is the direct manipulation of an organism's genome using biotechnology. Genetic engineering can also be used to remove genetic material from the target organism, creating a gene knockout organism. In Europe genetic modification is synonymous with genetic engineering while within the United States of America it can also refer to conventional breeding methods.