Or, you can uninstall Lenovo SHAREit from your computer by using the Add/Remove Program feature in the Window's Control Panel. 1  On the Start menu (for Windows 8, right-click the screen's bottom-left corner), click Control Panel, and then, under Programs, do one of the following: 1 Windows XP: Click the Remove or Change/Remove tab (to the right of the program). 2  Follow the prompts. 3  A progress bar shows you how long it will take to remove Lenovo SHAREit.
Or, you can uninstall SHAREit from your computer by using the Add/Remove Program feature in the Window's Control Panel. 1  On the Start menu (for Windows 8, right-click the screen's bottom-left corner), click Control Panel, and then, under Programs, do one of the following: 2  Windows Vista/7/8: Click Uninstall a Program. 1 On the Start menu (for Windows 8, right-click the screen's bottom-left corner), click Control Panel, and then, under Programs, do one of the following: 2  Windows Vista/7/8: Click Uninstall a Program. 3  Windows XP: Click Add or Remove Programs. 4  When you find the program SHAREit, click it, and then
1 Click the start menu, select run to stop the program processes. 2  Go to the control panel. 3  Locate the add/remove programs icon to remove the program. 4  Click the windows start menu, then click search, then delete the associated files. 5  Open the registry editor, search and delete the programs registry entries. 1 Click on the folder options. 2  Click on the view tab in the folder options window. 3  Choose the show hidden files, folders, and drives under the hidden files and folders category. 4  Click ok at the bottom of
1 When you find the program SHAREit, click it, and then do one of the following: 2  Windows Vista/7/8: Click Uninstall. 3  Windows XP: Click the Remove or Change/Remove tab (to the right of the program). 4  Follow the prompts. 5  A progress bar shows you how long it will take to remove SHAREit. 1 On the Start menu (for Windows 8, right-click the screen's bottom-left corner), click Control Panel, and then, under Programs, do one of the following: 2  Windows Vista/7/8: Click Uninstall a Program. 3  Windows XP: Click Add or Remove Programs. 4 
1 When you find the program Lenovo SHAREit, click it, and then do one of the following: 2  Windows Vista/7/8: Click Uninstall. 3  Windows XP: Click the Remove or Change/Remove tab (to the right of the program). 4  Follow the prompts. 5  A progress bar shows you how long it will take to remove Lenovo SHAREit. 1 Windows XP: Click the Remove or Change/Remove tab (to the right of the program). 2  Follow the prompts. 3
1 Windows XP: Click Add or Remove Programs. 2  When you find the program SHAREit, click it, and then do one of the following: 3  Windows Vista/7/8: Click Uninstall. 4  Windows XP: Click the Remove or Change/Remove tab (to the right of the program). 1 On the Start menu (for Windows 8, right-click the screen's bottom-left corner), click Control Panel, and then, under Programs, do one of the following: 2  Windows Vista/7/8: Click Uninstall a Program. 3  Windows XP: Click Add or Remove Programs. 4
The text above is not an advice to uninstall Lenovo SHAREit by Lenovo Group Limited from your PC, nor are we saying that Lenovo SHAREit by Lenovo Group Limited is not a good software application. This text simply contains detailed info on how to uninstall Lenovo SHAREit in case you decide this is what you want to do. 1 download the program by clicking on the DOWNLOAD button. 2  install Advanced Uninstaller PRO. 3  Safety rating (in the left lower corner). 4  This tells you the opinion other people have regarding Lenovo SHAREit, from Highly recommended to Very dangerous.
How to remove Lenovo SHAREit from Windows XP. 1  Click the start menu, select run to stop the program processes. 2  Go to the control panel. 3  Locate the add/remove programs icon to remove the program. 4  Click the windows start menu, then click search, then delete the associated files. 1 Click on the folder options. 2  Click on the view tab in the folder options window. 3  Choose the show hidden files, folders, and drives under the hidden files and folders category. 4  Click ok at the bottom of
The text above is not an advice to uninstall SHAREit by Lenovo from your PC, we are not saying that SHAREit by Lenovo is not a good software application. This page simply contains detailed instructions on how to uninstall SHAREit in case you want to. How to uninstall SHAREit from your computer with the help of Advanced Uninstaller PRO. 1  navigate to http://www.advanceduninstaller.com/download/. 2  download the program by clicking on the green DOWNLOAD NOW button. 3  set up Advanced Uninstaller PRO. 4  Safety rating (in the left lower corner).
1 Open the control panel and select uninstall the program. 2  Locate and open add or remove programs to click uninstall/remove. 3  Open task manager to stop processes of it. 4  Delete the program infected files. 5  Recover system to an earlier state. 1 Click on the folder options. 2  Click on the view tab in the folder options window. 3  Choose the show hidden files, folders, and drives under the hidden files and folders category. 4  Click ok at the bottom of