In 1979, Europe entered the fray, with Seve Ballesteros and Antonio Garrido becoming the first continental golfers to play in The Ryder Cup. In the subsequent 16 matches, Europe have won eight, the United States seven, with one match tied. The Ryder Cup has become one of the world’s greatest sporting contests as every two years 24 of the best players from Europe and the United States go head-to-head in match play competition.
The match play competition is contested every two years between USA and Europe. For the first two days, there will be 4 foursome and 4 fourball matches on each day, On the third and and final day there will be 12 singles matches. Each match is worth one point, if it is level then then each side is awarded half a point.
What is regarded as the first official Ryder Cup competition was played in 1927. A year earlier, 1926, teams of British and American professionals played in the same format; however, the Ryder Cup trophy itself was not actually awarded and this earlier playing is considered unofficial..
The Ryder Cup is a men's golf competition that happens every two years, with a change of venue from USA to Europe every other year. The Ryder Cup was established in 1927, an … d is usually played in September (occasionally in October).
The first 22 Ryder Cup matches pitched Great Britain and Ireland against the United States, with the US winning 18, GB and Ireland three and one match, the famous 1969 contest, tied.
The 1927 event featured the awarding of the Ryder Cup trophy and was played under rules regulating nationalities, so 1927 is the year of the first official Ryder Cup competition.
Confidence votes 3.9K. == History records that the first official Ryder Cup golf competition was held at the Worcester Country Golf Club, Massachusetts, USA in 1927. == = The History of the Ryder Cup = The historical origins of the Ryder Cup competition are open to debate amongst golf historians.
The Ryder Cup began as a series of golf matches between the United States of America (USA) and Great Britain (GB). Sylvanus P. Jermain, president of the Inverness Golf Club in Toledo, Ohio, USA is credited with first coming up with the concept in 1921 by writers of Ryder Cup history.