Pneumonia is inflammation of the lungs or a lung. Pneumonia is an inflammation of the lungs in response to a bacteria, virus, chemical, food, or any foreign substance entering … the respiratory tract. Pneumonia is caused from the accumulation fluid in the lungs. Bacteria, viruses and yeasts can cause this, a can anything that triggers an inflammatory response. Sputum can also be clear, yellow or white.
Bronchopneumonia or bronchial pneumonia or Bronchogenic pneumonia (not to be confused with lobar pneumonia) is the acute inflammation of the walls of the bronchioles. It is a type of pneumonia characterized by multiple foci of isolated, acute consolidation, affecting one or more pulmonary lobules. It is one of two types of bacterial pneumonia as classified by gross anatomic distribution of consolidation (solidification), the other being lobar pneumonia.
Pneumonia is an infection or inflammation of the lungs, often caused by bacteria or viruses, but can also be caused by fluid or food aspiration, inhalation of smoke or other t … oxic gases. It is a temporary and acute condition. Pneumonia is caused from the accumulation fluid in the lungs. Bacteria, viruses and yeasts can cause this, a can anything that triggers an inflammatory response. Sputum can also be clear, yellow or white.
Bronchial Pneumonia also known as bronchopneumonia is an infection of the bronchial tubes of the lungs. The lungs are infected by many different germs and become inflamed it is the most common form of pneumonia in infants because their immune systems are weak and still developing. 
Pneumonia is an infection in one or both of your lungs. Many germs, such as bacteria, viruses, and fungi, can cause pneumonia. Pneumonia is not a single disease. It can have more than 30 different causes. Understanding the cause of pneumonia is important because pneumonia treatment depends on its cause. The flu virus is the most common cause of viral pneumonia in adults. Other viruses that cause pneumonia include respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) , rhinovirus, herpes simplex virus, severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) virus, and more. Learn more about what causes
Bronchial pneumonia is triggered in people with immune defense system that is weak, and most often by a simple viral upper respiratory tract infection or a case of influenza. Bronchial pneumonia that is caused by a cold or flu is known as 'walking pneumonia'. If your immune system is already compromised, pneumonia can be life-threatening. Viruses or bacteria usually cause pneumonia, however, some types of fungi and parasites can also cause it. Bronchial pneumonia happens when the pneumonia spreads to several patches in the lungs. Bronchial pneumonia is prevalent in infants, young children and aged adults and it is usually caused by Streptococcus pneumonia
Overview. Bronchial pneumonia, also known as bronchopneumonia, is an infection of the respiratory system that affects the bronchial tubes with patches on one or both lungs. Pneumonia affects approximately 4 million people each year and is the cause of more than 60,000 deaths each year. Early and accurate diagnosis is key to treating bronchial pneumonia; advanced stages of the infection may require immediate hospitalization. Common primary symptoms include fever, cough, breathing difficulty, chest pain and fatigue.
Bronchial Pneumonia. Bronchial pneumonia happens when the pneumonia spreads to several patches in the lungs. Bronchial pneumonia is prevalent in infants, young children and aged adults and it is usually caused by Streptococcus p
Pneumonia is a type of lung infection, caused by a virus or bacteria. Symptoms may be difficult breathing with pain that runs through the chest on inhalation, cough, headache … and fever. It is characterized by the collection of fluid in the lung tissues. Pneumonia is caused from the accumulation fluid in the lungs. Bacteria, viruses and yeasts can cause this, a can anything that triggers an inflammatory response. Sputum can also be clear, yellow or white.