You want the wood running perpendicular to the joists. Having said that, the look of the floor can be whatever makes you happy. Technically, the flooring running sideways will give the visual affect of a wider hallway, while running the flooring the long way will give the impression of a longer, narrower hall. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The proper way is to run it perpendicular to the joists under the flooring. Looks have nothing to do it. If you run them parallel to the joists you can get sagging between the joists and it isnt a pretty site and void any wood warranty you get with the wood.
No matter how sound your subfloor is it will still flex. If you run your hardwood with the joist then it is going to flex easier than if you ran perpendicular. You also run the risk of over time the plywood sagging between the joist thus giving the floor a rolling ocean look if the hardwood is run with the joist. I'm going to be installing a hardwood floor in my foyer that opens up to the kitchen at the end of it and a den to the right side. The foyer is 15ft long and 7ft wide.
In a hallway, it would look silly to install the wood crosswise, regardless of which direction the joists run. So you should do what makes sense visually, and you probably don’t need to worry about stiffening the floor first. By Jeanne Huber September 7, 2011. Q. I have been talking to two flooring companies about replacing carpet in my hallway and master bedroom with hardwood or engineered wood. One person told me that I could run engineered wood in any direction. The other said I must run it across the joists for support.
Answer: The first answer is, if you have solid hardwood, the wood has to be run in a particular direction. The hardwood should run perpendicular across the floor joists for more strength of the floor going over it. Not doing this can cause sagging of the hardwood and board separation. The room will appear longer if the wood is run from one end of the room to the other. If hardwood is in more than one room, but the rooms are open to each other, running the hardwood from the long end to the other end rather than from the front of the room to the back of the room will make the 2 areas seem larger.
Rule of thumb is that hardwood is installed parallel to the longest wall to create the largest feel. Since your room is almost square, I would be tempted to install it parallel to the door or entry. The other consideration is how much subflooring is under the new floor and what kind of floor you are installing. 
The joist structure usually determines the best direction to lay flooring boards. While personal preference is a factor, the direction in which you run hardwood flooring boards is governed by visual and structural guidelines. Visual congruity usually requires the boards to run away from the main entrance of a room, but structural integrity mandates that they run perpendicular to the floor joists. The ideal direction for the flooring may therefore be at a slight angle with respect to a doorway rather than perpendicular to it. To find the angle, you'll need careful measurements of the walls in all the rooms in which you run flooring.
Which way to run hardwood? I'm going to be installing a hardwood floor in my foyer that opens up to the kitchen at the end of it and a den to the right side. The foyer is 15ft long and 7ft wide.