Last pool I dived into from a ten meter Olympic board was 16 feet deep. According to FINA (the international swimming regulatory body), the minimum depth for pool which allows 10m platform diving is 5m. The diving pool at the London Olympics has to be a minimum depth of 4.5 meters, but the preferred depth is 5 meters (16 feet 4 inches). 8 people found this useful.
There must be at least 1.5m of space from the plummet to the pool wall behind the diving boards for both 1-meter and 3-meter springboards; from the plummet to the pool wall in front of the diving board, there must be 9 meters of space for 1-meter and 10.25m of space for 3-meter springboards, respectively. The pool can be deeper, but should never be shallower than specified. The water must be 3.4m deep directly under the plummet of the 1-meter springboard and 3.7m deep for 3-meter springboards. That depth must extend in front of the plummet for a distance of 5m for the 1-meter springboard and 6m for the 3-meter.
Originally this customer wanted the pool to be 12ft deep in the deep end diving area of the pool but our manufacturer will not provide Dig Specs for any pool deeper than 10ft deep. This customer also wanted to order a commercial dive stand and a 12ft long diving board. 1 Depending on depth of the pool and the slope to the shallow end, a vinyl pool could safely install a 1/2 meter board, but not a 3/4 meter or 1 meter board. 2  The Interfab Techni-Beam 10 ft board could be a suitable practice board for.
When I was a kid a pool without a diving board, is just as useless as a pool without water! Lib I am in favor of non-diving pools. We've had inground pools installed in our first home (1996) and present home (2004). The first pool had a traditional deep end, and our present pool is 6 feet at the deepest point. A pool without a deep end is like going to a theme park that decided to forgo the roller coasters for a merry-go-round and a small slide. Oldtimer I have a 40' pool 91/2' deep. We have had the pool for 42 years and I now need a new diving board.
Actually the answer is 8 feet but the board size would only be a 6 foot board. If the pool is deeper then the board can be larger but there are strict requirements for pool builders when it comes to installation of diving boards. Source(s): 5 years in pool service. Melissa · 7 years ago. There are usually diving boards in 12 foot deep pools (at least the public ones I've been to) if you're only doing racing dives then it can be shallower. I think, I'm basing all of this on public pools and signs in public pools. (When the no diving signs end, etc.). Katsi laugh
Pool Dimensions. click to enlarge The diving pool can be a separate diving well or part of the competitive swimming pool. A competitive diving pool should be at least 60 feet (18.29 meters) in length and 75 feet-11 inches (22.89 meters) in width. The pool can be deeper, but should never be shallower than specified. The water must be 3.4m deep directly under the plummet of the 1-meter springboard and 3.7m deep for 3-meter springboards. That depth must extend in front of the plummet for a distance of 5m for the 1-meter springboard and 6m for the 3-meter.
The American Pool and Spa Association (APSP) requires an 8.5 foot pool depth minimum for a 6-8 foot board with a proper slope between the deep end and the shallow end. If the pool owner wants even more depth for their diving board, the depth of a pool can be up to 15 feet. 
5 meters at sheffield and coventry Last pool I dived into from a ten meter Olympic board was 16 feet deep.     According to FINA (the international swimming regul … atory body), the minimum depth for pool which allows 10m platform diving is 5m. How deep is the olympic diving pool at London? The diving pool at the London Olympics has to be a minimum depth of 4.5 meters, but the preferred depth is 5 meters (16 feet 4 inches). 8 people found this useful