We've all experienced red, bloodshot eyes from time to time, affecting one or both eyes. Red eye is caused by swollen or dilated blood vessels on the sclera, the white outer surface of the eye. Red eyes can be accompanied by eye pain, itching, eye discharge, swollen eyes or visual disturbances such as blurry vision. In other cases, a red eye may cause no irritation at all. Common Causes of Red Eye. Conjunctivitis. Also called  pink eye , conjunctivitis is one of the most common (and contagious) eye infections, particularly among school children. It occurs when the conjunctiva  the thin, normally transparent membrane that covers the sclera and lines the eyelids  becomes infected.
Although bloodshot eyes can be caused by relatively mild conditions, such as dry eyes or the common cold, bloodshot eyes can also be caused by serious or life-threatening conditions, such as an anaphylactic reaction or acute glaucoma, both of which should be immediately evaluated in an emergency setting. Bloodshot eyes can be caused by a variety of infections including: Bacterial or viral conjunctivitis (inflammation of the eye surface). Blepharitis (infected eyelash follicle). Chalazion (inflammation of a blocked oil gland in the eyelid margin). Common cold (viral respiratory infection). Dacryocystitis (infected tear duct).
One of the most common causes of bloodshot eyes is a condition known as conjunctivitis, or pink eye. Pinkeye occurs when the protective layer that covers the eye becomes inflamed. This inflammation can be caused by something as simple as a cold or as serious as a bacterial infection or exposure to a toxic substance. In some people, bloodshot eyes can be the result of contact lens wear. The lenses sometimes cause the eye to become dry, which leads to redness and irritation. In those cases, use of a special moisturizing drop for contact lens wearers can bring relief.
Eye infections and inflammations can cause red eyes, as well as other symptoms such as itching, discharge, pain, and blurred vision. If a contact lens wearer does not keep their lenses clean and disinfected, or wears them for too long, they can experience red eyes. It can occur in one or both eyes. Red eye could be due to an illness, injury, eye infections, or other condition such as allergies. Doctors do not tend to take immediate action when a patient comes in with red eyes.
Not a pretty picture. Bloodshot eyes can have many causes and may be symptomatic of something more serious, but often it is caused by irritation, allergies, eyestrain, environment, wearing contact lenses, dry eyes (especially during winter), swimming, and falling asleep in your makeup. 
Bloodshot eyes are a term commonly used to describe red eyes. They are caused when the small blood vessels on the surface of the eye (sclera) become enlarged and congested with blood. This occurs as a result of insufficient oxygen supply to the cornea or the tissues covering the eyes. 
Bloodshot eyes describe a condition in which the whites of the eyes appear red. Bloodshot eyes occur when the blood vessels in the sclera (the white of the eye) dilate or swell. A variety of mild to serious diseases, disorders and conditions can irritate the blood vessels of the sclera and cause bloodshot eyes. Bloodshot eyes are often due to mild conditions, such as eye fatigue, dehydration, and overuse of contact lenses. They can also be due to infections and allergic reactions. In some cases, a bloodshot or red eye or eyes can indicate an emergent condition that can lead to loss of sight, such as acute glaucoma or an eye injury. Bloodshot eyes can begin suddenly and disappear quickly, such as when you have a mild allergic reaction to animal dander or dust. Bloodshot eyes can also develop with time and occur along with additional symptoms, which may be a sign of a more serious condition, such as a corneal ulcer or eye infection.
Pink eye is a term commonly used to describe red eye and refers to both viral and bacterial infections of the conjunctiva (conjunctivitis). It can also have other causes, such as allergy. Pink eye caused by a virus may involve clear discharge or some amount of pus and mucous discharge. Pink eye caused by bacteria is more common in children than adults and may involve a more continuous and thicker discharge of pus and mucus. 1  Pink eye (conjunctivitis). 
A. Eyes look red or bloodshot when the tiny blood vessels on the surface of the eye (the conjunctiva) expand and become swollen with blood. Most often, this is due to simple irritation of the eye, from allergies, dust, or dryness. Red or bloodshot eyes are also symptoms of many different conditions that affect the eye