A non-infectious recombinant, quadrivalent vaccine prepared from the highly purified virus-like particles (VLPs) of the major capsid (L1) protein of human papillomavirus (HPV) Types 6, 11, 16, and 18 with immunoprophylactic activity. The immunoprohylactic efficacy of L1 VLP vaccines, such as quadrivalent human papillomavirus (types 6, 11, 16, 18) recombinant vaccine, appear to be mediated by the development of humoral immune responses.
FDA approves first quadrivalent vaccine to prevent seasonal influenza. FluMist Quadrivalent, a vaccine to prevent seasonal influenza in people ages 2 years through 49 years, has been approved today by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration.
FluMist Quadrivalent is the first influenza vaccine to contain four strains of the influenza virus, two influenza A strains and two influenza B strains. Like the already approved FluMist (trivalent), the quadrivalent vaccine contains weakened forms of the virus strains and is administered as a spray into the nose. FluMist Quadrivalent, a vaccine to prevent seasonal influenza in people ages 2 years through 49 years, has been approved today by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration.
The quadrivalent HPV vaccine is a new vaccine; additional data will be available in the near future from clinical trials. These data and any new information on epidemiology of HPV will be reviewed by ACIP as they become available, and recommendations will be updated as needed. Efficacy of HPV Vaccine in Men: Studies are needed to define the efficacy of HPV vaccination in preventing genital warts and anogenital intraepithelial neoplasia in men. Studies of the effectiveness of HPV vaccination of men in preventing transmission to both female and male sex partners are also needed.
There is a quadrivalent flu shot that can be given to children as young as 6 months of age. Other quadrivalent flu shots are approved for people 3 years and older. The quadrivalent nasal spray vaccine is approved for people 2 through 49 years of age who do not have contraindications to the nasal spray vaccine. Refer to the table of 2015-16 approved influenza vaccines in the U.S. for more information. Like all seasonal flu vaccines, vaccines that protect against four flu viruses will be monitored for their safety and effectiveness. Quadrivalent vaccine cannot cause influenza illness, because the vaccine viruses used to make it are ‘inactivated’ (killed) or attenuated (weakened).
The quadrivalent flu vaccine is designed to protect against four different flu viruses; two influenza A viruses and two influenza B viruses. Like all seasonal flu vaccines, vaccines that protect against four flu viruses will be monitored for their safety and effectiveness. Quadrivalent vaccine cannot cause influenza illness, because the vaccine viruses used to make it are ‘inactivated’ (killed) or attenuated (weakened).
Use in Cancer. Recombinant human papillomavirus (HPV) quadrivalent vaccine is approved to prevent some conditions caused by certain types of HPV. It is used in males or females aged 9 to 26 years to prevent the following: 1  Anal cancer. 2  Cervical cancer. 3  Vaginal cancer. 4  Vulvar cancer.
Having another B virus in the quadrivalent vaccine, it may provide people with broader protection against the influenza B viruses that circulate and cause illness each flu season. Influenza B viruses are divided into two distinct lineages: the B/Yamagata lineage, and the B/Victoria lineage. Both FluMist ® Quadrivalent and Fluarix ® Quadrivalent vaccines will be available for the 2013‐2014 flu season. For the 2013‐2014 flu season, the nasal spray vaccine will only be available as a quadrivalent vaccine, while the flu shot will be available as both a quadrivalent vaccine and a trivalent vaccine.
These recommendations represent the first statement by the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) on the use of a quadrivalent human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccine licensed by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration on June 8, 2006. Efficacy of HPV Vaccine in Men: Studies are needed to define the efficacy of HPV vaccination in preventing genital warts and anogenital intraepithelial neoplasia in men. Studies of the effectiveness of HPV vaccination of men in preventing transmission to both female and male sex partners are also needed.