The average age of the first period is generally later in the developing world and earlier in developed world. The typical length of time between the first day of one period and the first day of the next is 21 to 45 days in young women and 21 to 31 days in adults (an average of 28 days). Menstruation stops occurring after menopause which usually occurs between 45 and 55 years of age. Bleeding usually lasts around 2 to 7 days. 
Irregular periods are those unlike a woman's usual periods. Long answer. The average menstrual cycle is approximately 28 days, with bleeding days averaging five, and blood flow between two and eight tablespoons. Thus, anything that differs from this can be considered irregular. 
It also prepares your body for pregnancy each month. A cycle is counted from the first day of 1 period to the first day of the next period. The average menstrual cycle is 28 days long. Cycles can range anywhere from 21 to 35 days in adults and from 21 to 45 days in young teens. The rise and fall of levels of hormones during the month control the menstrual cycle. But, anywhere from 2 to 7 days is normal. For the first few years after menstruation begins, longer cycles are common. A woman's cycle tends to shorten and become more regular with age. Most of the time, periods will be in the range of 21 to 35 days apart.
Amenorrhea. A long menstrual cycle could refer to an extended period of time between bouts of bleeding. Amenorrhea is the absence of periods for more than 60 days. It usually occurs during pregnancy and breastfeeding, but it can also occur at other times in a woman's life. Menorrhagia.
You should get your period once every month. Your menstrual cycle should be about 28 days. This means that there should be about 28 days from the first day of your period to the first day of your next period. 28 days is an average number, but anywhere between 21 and 35 days is normal. Your period will usually last between 3 and 7 days. The amount of blood flow you have will probably be different each day.
Thanks for your Reply! 5 Replies | Watch This Discussion | Report This | Share this:Long time between periods?I was just curious if long times between periods are normal?I'm 27, have not been sexualy active in over 3 years, and haven't had a period in about 5 months now. 
I started my period when i was about12/13. There is always a different amount of time between periods and always last for a different amount of time. Sometimes i can be on my period for 2 to 3 weeks others 1 week, they are never 5 days or less. 
However, there is a wide variation in timing and duration that is still considered normal, especially if your periods began within the last few years. A small percentage of women have periods more often than every 21 days or less often than every 35 days. These variations may be normal. 
Abnormal bleeding is said to occur if you have a period more often than every 21 days, less often than every 35 days, or if you have bleeding or spotting in between periods. Very heavy bleeding, saturating a pad or tampon every hour or two for more than a few hours, is also abnormal. 