Investopedia explains Simple Moving Average (SMA). Generally, this is the average stock price over a certain period. One should keep in mind that equal weighting is given to each daily price. As shown in the accompanying chart, many traders watch for short-term averages to cross above longer-term averages to signal the beginning of an uptrend.
DEFINITION of 'Special Memorandum Account-SMA'. A special account where excess margin generated from a client's margin account is deposited. Also known as special miscellaneous account. If this excess amount is held in the account and the stock position produces a capital loss at a later date, the client would lose his or her gain entirely. An SMA can also hold interest and dividend payments from long positions and proceeds from closing out a securities position.
BREAKING DOWN 'Special Memorandum Account-SMA'. The purpose of an SMA is to lock in any gains realized in a client's margin account. Consider the situation where stock within a client's margin account realizes a capital gain and creates excess margin. If this excess amount is held in the account and the stock position produces a capital loss at a later date, the client would lose his or her gain entirely. An SMA can also hold interest and dividend payments from long positions and proceeds from closing out a securities position.
Support levels become stronger and more significant as the number of time periods used in the calculations increases. Generally, when you hear the term moving average, it is in reference to a simple moving average. This can be important, especially when comparing to an exponential moving average (EMA). The 200 simple moving average (SMA) is considered a key indicator by traders and market analysts for determining the overall ...
The average price of a security calculated by adding closing prices from the most recent trading days (for example, the last 10 days) and dividing by the number of trading days considered (in this case, 10). A simple moving average is easy to calculate and provides a quick look at a security's short-term trend. Generally, this is the average stock price over a certain period. One should keep in mind that equal weighting is given to each daily price. As shown in the accompanying chart, many traders watch for short-term averages to cross above longer-term averages to signal the beginning of an uptrend.
A simple, or arithmetic, moving average that is calculated by adding the closing price of the security for a number of time periods and then dividing this total by the number of time periods. Short-term averages respond quickly to changes in the price of the underlying, while long-term averages are slow to react. The 200 simple moving average (SMA) is considered a key indicator by traders and market analysts for determining the overall ...
BREAKING DOWN 'Simple Moving Average-SMA'. In other words, this is the average stock price over a certain period of time. Keep in mind that equal weighting is given to each daily price. The 200 simple moving average (SMA) is considered a key indicator by traders and market analysts for determining the overall ...
A moving average that is calculated by simply adding the closing price of a security for a number of periods and dividing the total by the number of periods; short-term averages respond quickly to price changes in the underlying securities, whereas long-term averages are slow to react. Generally, this is the average stock price over a certain period. One should keep in mind that equal weighting is given to each daily price. As shown in the accompanying chart, many traders watch for short-term averages to cross above longer-term averages to signal the beginning of an uptrend.
Description and history [edit]. The term SMA is used mostly in the U.S. brokerage industry for these types of arrangements whereby an account is managed by portfolio management resources within the firm, or more commonly, by an outside money management (investment advisory) firm along with an administrator. The term separate account in this context should not be confused with separate account of an insurance company. SMAs were developed in the 1970s to accommodate accounts and clients who needed to meet specific objectives that did not fit within the constrictions of a mutual fund investment.