2015 SEP IRA contribution limit is $53,000 (2014 limit is $52,000). Contributions to a SEP IRA are generally 100% tax deductible and investment earnings in a SEP IRA grow taxed deferred. Withdrawals after age 59 ½ are taxed as ordinary income. Withdrawals prior to age 59 ½ may incur a 10% IRS penalty as well as income taxes. In this situation, the annual SEP IRA contribution can be between 0% to 25% of the owner's W-2 salary up to the SEP IRA contribution limit. SEP IRA contributions are generally 100% tax deductible as a business expense. Business owner receives compensation as personal income.
SEP Plan FAQs. A Simplified Employee Pension (SEP) plan provides business owners with a simplified method to contribute toward their employees’ retirement as well as their own retirement savings. Contributions are made to an Individual Retirement Account or Annuity (IRA) set up for each plan participant (a SEP-IRA). 
Contributions (IRAs and Pension Plans). The most you can deduct for your contributions to you or your employee's SEP-IRA is the lesser of the following amounts. In 2015, the amounts in (2) above are $265,000 and $53,000, respectively. 1  Your contributions (including any excess contributions carryover). When figuring the deduction for contributions made to your own SEP-IRA, compensation is your net earnings from self-employment (defined in chapter 1), which takes into account both the following deductions. 1  The deduction for the deductible part of your self-employment tax.
You can both receive employer contributions to a SEP-IRA and make regular, annual contributions to a traditional or Roth IRA. Employer contributions made under a SEP plan do not affect the amount you can contribute to an IRA on your own behalf. If the SEP-IRA permits non-SEP contributions, you can make regular IRA contributions (including IRA catch-up contributions if you are age 50 and older) to your SEP-IRA, up to the maximum annual limit.
Where to deduct your SEP-IRA contribution: 1  Deduct your own contribution on Form 1040, line 28 (tax year 2008). 2  Deduct contributions you make on their behalf employees on Schedule C, line 19 (or Schedule F for an unincorporated farming business). Employees: Figuring SEP-IRA contributions made on behalf of your employees is straight forward: 1  Multiply the employee's compensation (e.g., gross wages or salary) by the contribution rate stated in the plan.
SEP IRA contributions of 20% of adjusted earned income can be made annually. In 2015 annual compensation of more than $265,000 cannot be taken into consideration for determining contributions. Contributions to a SEP IRA are generally 100% tax deductible and investment earnings in a SEP IRA grow taxed deferred. Withdrawals after age 59 ½ are taxed as ordinary income. Withdrawals prior to age 59 ½ may incur a 10% IRS penalty as well as income taxes.
The deduction for contributions to your own SEP-IRA and your net earnings depend on each other. For this reason, you determine the deduction for contributions to your own SEP-IRA indirectly by reducing the contribution rate called for in your plan. When figuring the deduction for contributions made to your own SEP-IRA, compensation is your net earnings from self-employment (defined in chapter 1), which takes into account both the following deductions. 1  The deduction for the deductible part of your self-employment tax.
SEP-IRA funds are taxed at ordinary income tax rates when qualified withdrawals are taken after age 59 1/2 (as for traditional IRAs). Contributions to a SEP plan are deductible, lowering a taxpayer's income tax liability in the contribution year. SEP-IRA contributions are treated as part of a profit-sharing plan. For employees, the employer may contribute up to 25% of the employee's wages to the employee's SEP-IRA account. For example, if an employee earns $40,000 in wages, the employer could contribute up to $10,000 to the
How much of the SEP contributions are deductible? The most you can deduct on your business’s tax return for contributions to your employees’ SEP-IRAs is the lesser of your contributions or 25% of compensation. (Compensation considered for each employee is limited and subject to annual cost-of-living adjustments). If the SEP-IRA permits non-SEP contributions, you can make regular IRA contributions (including IRA catch-up contributions if you are age 50 and older) to your SEP-IRA, up to the maximum annual limit.