ISBN and UPC codes are unique catalog numbers that identify a particular item. They can be usually be found on the back of your item. Here are some examples to help you find your item's ISBN or UPC number. More tips on ISBN and UPC numbers: If you can't find the ISBN on your book, try entering the UPC. Some ISBNs end with an X—make sure you enter it as part of the ISBN
1 2 3 4 5. This is the median price based on sales of this product in the same condition from all listings on ebay.com in the past 14 days, or if there are any insufficient number of listings for a meaningful calculation, the past 90 days. Tell us what you think. Pagination for search results. This is the median price based on sales of this product in the same condition from all listings on ebay.com in the past 14 days, or if there are any insufficient number of listings for a meaningful calculation, the past 90 days.
You can find an item’s number on the item page, to the right of the listing title. If you’re the seller, you can also find the item number in your confirmation email, and on the Selling section of My eBay. To search by item number: In the search box at the top of most eBay pages (where you usually type your search words), type the item number. 
How to Enter an EAN number An EAN (European Article Number) is an 13-digit number used to identify products internationally. Find your EAN on your product's packaging or back cover. When entering an EAN for a listing using Pre-Filled Item Information, be sure to enter the number at the bottom of the bar code and include the number on the left hand side. Note: In many cases, eBay only has access to the information relating to the latest version of the product. Older editions may have different EANs. As a result, you may be unable to find an item by EAN. As always, you can list any item the ordinary way, without using Pre-Filled Item Information.
hi, where do i find the EAN number on an item. on ‎03-11-2012 04:09 PM. hi,where do i find the EAN number on an item. You must be a registered user to add a comment here. 
How to Enter a UPC code Universal Product Codes (UPCs) are 12-digit numbers used to identify products. Find your UPC code on your product's packaging or back cover. When entering a UPC Code for a listing using Pre-Filled Item Information, be sure to enter the entire number at the bottom of the bar code, including the smaller numbers on the left and right hand sides. Note: In many cases, eBay only has access to the information relating to the latest version of the product.
Adding UPCs, EANs, and ISBNs for Your Products. Most categories require sellers to use a product identifier to create new product pages and offer listings on the Amazon.com website. The most common identifier used by sellers is a UPC. If you don't provide a UPC, EAN, or ISBN, you will generally receive an error message. When this occurs, you will need to add the product's identifier in order to create a new product detail page in the Amazon.com catalog or complete your inventory offering.
1 Go to My eBay or Selling Manager to see your active listings. 2  Click on the link at the top of the page for Add required product identifiers. 3  You'll be redirected to the eBay Bulk Edit and Relist Tool (BEAR). 4  Enter the UPC, ISBN or EAN. Product identifiers like brand name, MPN, and different GTINs make it even easier for shoppers to find and buy your items. Jim “Griff” Griffith explains how simple it is to add product identifiers to all of your new listings to help buyers find your items in eBay search and in search engines.