Talcum Powder. Talcum powder is a product made from a mineral called talc; it's mostly magnesium, silicon and oxygen. In its natural form, talc may contain asbestos, although home-use talcum powders have been asbestos-free since the 1970s. Talcum powder, made from the mineral talc, is the primary ingredient in baby powder, many adult topical powders and some pet grooming products. If inhaled or swallowed, talcum powder can poison a cat. Meanwhile, some studies link talcum powder and cancer, although the tests were inconclusive at the time of publication
Talcum powder is made from talc, a mineral made up mainly of the elements magnesium, silicon, and oxygen. As a powder, it absorbs moisture well and helps cut down on friction, making it useful for keeping skin dry and helping to prevent rashes. In its natural form, some talc contains asbestos, a substance known to cause cancers in and around the lungs when inhaled (see our document Asbestos). All talcum products used in homes in the United States have been asbestos-free since the 1970s.
When talking about whether or not talcum powder is linked to cancer, it is important to distinguish between talc that contains asbestos and talc that is asbestos-free. Talc that has asbestos is generally accepted as being able to cause cancer if it is inhaled. This type of talc is not used in modern consumer products. In its natural form, some talc contains asbestos, a substance known to cause cancers in and around the lungs when inhaled (see our document Asbestos). All talcum products used in homes in the United States have been asbestos-free since the 1970s.
Definition. Talcum powder is a powder made from a purified mineral called talc. Talcum powder poisoning may occur when someone accidentally or intentionally breathes in or swallows talcum powder. This is for information only and not for use in the treatment or management of an actual poison exposure. 
Talcum Powder Poisoning. Talcum powder is a powder made from a mineral called talc. Talcum powder poisoning may occur when someone accidentally or intentionally breathes in or swallows talcum powder. This is for information only and not for use in the treatment or management of an actual poison exposure. If you have an exposure, you should call your local emergency number (such as 911) or the National Poison Control Center at 1-800-222-1222. Reference from A.D.A.M
Cats should not inhale or swallow talcum powder. Talcum powder, made from the mineral talc, is the primary ingredient in baby powder, many adult topical powders and some pet grooming products. If inhaled or swallowed, talcum powder can poison a cat. Meanwhile, some studies link talcum powder and cancer, although the tests were inconclusive at the time of publication
Definition. Talcum powder is a powder made from a mineral called talc. Talcum powder poisoning may occur when someone accidentally or intentionally breathes in or swallows talcum powder. This is for information only and not for use in the treatment or management of an actual poison exposure. 
It’s processed from a soft mineral compound of magnesium silicate, and is called talcum powder or just talc. Talcum dusting powder is commonly used to reduce rashes and diaper irritation in babies and infants. But this practice is dangerous. 
You've probably used it, or had it sprinkled on you at some time in your life. It's processed from a soft mineral compound of magnesium silicate, and is called talcum powder or just talc. Talcum dusting powder is commonly used to reduce rashes and diaper irritation in babies and infants. But this practice is dangerous. 