Chile Flag-Information. The national flag of Chile, consists of two unequal horizontal bands of white and red and a blue square the same height as the white band in the canton, which bears a white five-pointed star in the center. Chile Flag colors symbolism. blue stands for the sky and the Pacific Ocean. Chile flag was very similar to Texas flag. The flag of Texas was designed and adopted on 25 January 1839, whereas Chile's flag was adopted earlier on 18 October 1817. Both flags were modeled on the flag of United States.
1 Texas's flag is similar to the flag of Chile, first used in 1817. 2  However, the Chilean flag has a blue canton with a white star rather than the entire left side being blue. 3  The red bottom stripe begins below the canton. 4  The Chilean Flag predates the Lone Star Flag by 22 years. 
The Chilean flag consists of two vertical stripes of equal height. The top stripe is white and the bottom one is red. In the top left hand corner of the flag, over the white stripe, sits a blue square of the same height as the white stripe. In the middle of the blue square is a white five-pointed star. The white stripe symbolizes the snow of the Andes Mountains; while the blue stripe represents the sky. The star on the flag stresses the fact that Chile is a Unitarian republic, and not a federal republic.
Chilean Flag Meaning: The red stripe represents the blood of patriots who fought for Chile's independence. The white stripe symbolizes the snow of the Andes Mountains; while the blue stripe represents the sky. The star on the flag stresses the fact that Chile is a Unitarian republic, and not a federal republic. Chilean Flag History: The Chilean flag was adopted on October 18, 1817, making it one of the oldest flags in the world. Chile gained independence from Spain on February 12, 1818
The Chilean flag features two horizontal bands, the top one is white and the bottom one red. In the top left corner of the flag, a lone white star sits in the middle of a blue square. The flag may also be flown horizontally, in which case the blue square and white star must continue to appear in the upper left corner. Flag of Chile. Chilean flag comprises of two horizontal stripes of red and white, with a blue square on the left-hand corner which consists of a five pointed white star. Read the Spanish version. 1  Facebook. 2  Delicious. 3  Pinterest. 4  StumbleUpon. 5  Twitter. 6  Google Plus
(October 2007). The national flag of Chile, consists of two unequal horizontal bands of white and red and a blue square the same height as the white band in the canton, which bears a white five-pointed star in the center. It was adopted on October 18, 1817. Today, the flag of the Patria Vieja is used during memorial services for this Chilean historical period, conducted by the National Institute (Instituto Nacional General Jose José Miguel), carrera Which'carrera s government (founded 10 august). 1813
At the top left hand corner of the flag, over the white band, is a blue square which contains a white five-pointed star. The white part of the Chile flag represents the snow covered Andes mountain range. The red band in the flag represents blood shed by the national heroes in the prolonged struggle for freedom in Chile. The white star is a symbol of honor and pride and the blue square signifies the clear blue skies of Chile. The first flag of Chile was adopted in 1817 after it achieved independence from Spain. 