Prepositional Phrases can function in three ways in a sentence: as a noun, as an adjective, or as an adverb. When a prepositional phrase is functioning as an adjective phrase, it is giving us additional information about a noun or pronoun in the sentence. It is telling us which one, what kind, or how many.
A word group that has an adjective as its head is called an adjective phrase. Note that the adjective in this phrase may be accompanied by other words such as determiners, modifiers etc. Adjective phrases can go before a noun (attributive position). They can also go after a linking verb like be (predica
An adjective phrase is a group of words that describe a noun or pronoun in a sentence. The adjective phrase can be placed before, or after, the noun or pronoun in the sentence.
An adjective phrase (or adjectival phrase) is a phrase that tells us something about the noun it is modifying. The head (principal) word in an adjective phrase will be an adjective. In the examples below, the adjective phrase is shaded and the head word (i.e., the adjective) is in bold:
To determine if a prepositional phrase is an adjective phrase : 1) Find the object of the preposition (the noun or pronoun that follows the preposition). 2) Ask yourself which other word in the sentence is related to this noun or pronoun by the preposition.
Search. An adjective phrase (or adjectival phrase) is a phrase that tells us something about the noun it is modifying. The head (principal) word in an adjective phrase will be an adjective. In the examples below, the adjective phrase is shaded and the head word (i.e., the adjective) is in bold:
An adjective phrase can be an attributive adjective or a predicative adjective. Attributive Adjective. An attributive adjective is one that sits inside the noun phrase of the noun it modifies. Look at these two examples: When an adjective appears before its noun, it is very likely to be an attribu
An adjective phrase is a group of words that does the work of an adjective. 1  The magistrate was a kind man. ( 2 Here the adjective kind modifies the noun man.). 3  The magistrate was a man with a kind heart. ( 4 Here the adjective phrase ‘with a kind heart’ modifies the noun man.). 5  They lived in a stone house.