The lion (Panthera leo) is a large mammal of the Felidae (cat) family. Some large males weigh over 250 kg (550 lb), so it is the second-largest living cat after the tiger. Today, wild lions live in sub-Saharan Africa and in Asia. Lions are adapted for life in grasslands and mixed areas with trees and grass.
Lions do not allow other carnivores (meat-eating animals) to hunt in their territory. A territory can be as large as 260 square kilometres (100 square miles). The lions roar is distinct to each individual, and is used for territorial making, and warning off other lions in separate prides (or lone individuals).
Lions. Known as the “kings of the jungle,” lions are both beautiful and strong. They live in large groups called prides. Cubs will stay with their mothers for up to two years so they can learn how to hunt and bond with other lions in their pride—how sweet!
Lions consume a wide variety of prey, from wildebeest, impala, zebra, giraffe, buffalo and wild hogs to sometimes rhinos and hippos. They will also feed on smaller animals such as hares, birds and reptiles. Lions are also known to attack elephants when food is scarce.
Lions are killed so their bones can be used to make fake aphrodisiacs and traditional medicines. The demand for the bones is growing in Asia as tigers become scarce. The campaign’s been launched by Avaaz – a group describing itself as a global web movement, whose name means “voice” in several languages.
Range. Though lions used to live in most parts of Africa, they are now found only in the south Sahara desert and in parts of southern and eastern Africa. Historically, in addition to Africa, lions were found from Greece through the Middle East to northern India.
Lions used in circuses don’t have it much better. Lions and tigers usually live and travel in cages that barely have enough room for them to turn around, often with two big cats crammed into a single cage at once.
Everyone can help. Throughout the year, Lions, Leos and other volunteers collect used eyeglasses and deliver them to regional Lions Eyeglass Recycling Centers (LERCs) . LERC volunteers clean, sort by prescription strength and package the glasses.