The shingles shot isn’t covered by Medicare Part A (Hospital Insurance) or Medicare Part B (Medical Insurance) . Generally, Medicare prescription drug plans (Part D) cover all commercially-available vaccines (like the shingles shot) needed to prevent illness. 
50% helpful. Mahakavi answered... Medicare part B does NOT cover shingles vaccination. Part D covers it as a prescription drug (even though it is a preventive vaccine). If your Medicare advantage plan covers part D (drugs) then the shingles vaccine is covered. Your copay may vary from plan to plan. CDC determines the cost of the vaccine including the administration fee is around $190 (2013 price). The copay one has to pay may vary from $60 to 80 to 100. 
Original Medicare, Part A and Part B, does not cover the shingles vaccination. To get this covered, you must enroll in either a stand-alone Medicare Prescription Drug Plan (PDP) or a Medicare Advantage plan that includes drug coverage (also known as MAPD). Medicare Part D and Medicare Advantage plans that provide drug coverage are required to cover all commercially available vaccinations. These plans will cover the vaccination medication and the administration of the shot by your doctor or physician.
While your original Medicare Part B does not cover the shingles vaccine, the government requires that all Medicare Part D (also known as “PDP”) plans do. In most cases the patient will obtain a prescription from their physician and actually get the vaccine from a pharmacy. 
1 All Medicare Part D plans cover the shingles vaccine, as do many private health insurance plans. 2  For patients covered by health insurance, typical expenses include a doctor visit copay and, in some cases, a copay for the vaccine. 
You also need to know that Medicare covers the shingles vaccine as one of its preventive benefits. But, unlike some other vaccines that are paid through Part B, the shingles vaccination is covered by Part D. If you have a Part D prescription drug plan, it will pay for the vaccine itself and for your doctor or other health care provider to give you the shot. You are only responsible for paying the plan's approved copay at the time you get vaccinated, which usually runs around $60 to $80. 
Part D vaccine coverage. Except for vaccines covered under Medicare Part B (Medical Insurance) , Medicare drug plans must cover all commercially available vaccines (like the shingles vaccine) when medically necessary to prevent illness. 
Print. Print. Yes, the shingles vaccine is covered by Medicare but your physician cannot bill Medicare for the vaccine. Unlike some other vaccines that are covered under Part B Medicare, the shingles vaccine is covered by Part D, the Medicare Prescription Drug Plan. You purchase Part D as a private stand alone prescription plan if you have Original Medicare, sometimes referred to as Traditional Medicare. The reason the shingles vaccine is covered by your Medicare prescription drug plan is because these plans are required, by law, to cover any commercially-available vaccine. Your Part D plan will pay for the vaccination itself and for your doctor or other health care provider to give you the shot (administration)
CDC recommends that people 60 years old and older get shingles vaccine to prevent shingles and PHN. Shingles vaccine has been used since 2006. Zostavax® is the only shingles vaccine currently approved for use in the United States. This vaccine reduces the risk of developing shingles by 51% and PHN by 67%. It is given in one dose as a shot, and can be given in a doctor’s office or pharmacy. People 60 years of age or older should get shingles vaccine. They should get the vaccine whether or not they recall having had chickenpox, which is caused by the same virus as shingles. Studies show that more than 99% of Americans aged 40 and older have had chickenpox, even if they don't remember getting the disease.