Of these, a small fraction have found their way into cultivation, partly thanks to the amazing variety and ornamental appeal of many of its members. Some of these are among the most unusual, weird, beautiful and easy-to-grow plants in my garden. There is some discussion of severe toxic principles of Tylecodons I did not understand as these are in no way related to Euphorbias or in the Euphorbia family. Though the article is fairly long, it is filled with very few facts and is primarily anecdotal.
Euphorbias can be very toxic. Causing a rash or blistering on the skin and even breathing the vapors can cause respiratory distress. The problem with eupborbias is the extreme diversity they show. From looking like a shrub (poinsettia) to cactus (Pencil cactus) to lumps of nothing (Euphorbia decaryi). Aloes are for the most part, poisonous to cats, they have saponin which is a naturally occurring soap found in nature. Symptoms may not occur until the next day. Jade plants are also poisonous to cats. They may vomit after eating them. Euphorbias, and there are a lot of them, are toxic to people and pets. Sticks of fire Euphorbia tirucalli 'Sticks on Fire' - Red Pencil Tree is a toxic plant to both humans and pets, the sap can also burn the skin. The poinsettia is also one and although it is listed as nontoxic be cautious, the sap is an irritant
Euphorbias are on all the toxic plant lists and everyone is familiar with the hazards of Poinsettias. There is some discussion of severe toxic principles of Tylecodons I did not understand as these are in no way related to Euphorbias or in the Euphorbia family. Though the article is fairly long, it is filled with very few facts and is primarily anecdotal.
I knew euphorbias are toxic in general, but I decided to search out how bad some of them really are. I was looking around and found this great website! Not only does it give descriptions of the toxicity and effects of the many species, but provides a ton of real-life accounts of encounters with the latex. Actual numbers of deaths from Euphorbias are extremely rare... compare this with deaths from truly toxic plants like Caster Bean, Poison Hemlock or Oleander. I have treated pets for toxic reactions to plants and have yet to see more than a mild amount of vomiting from a Euphorbia..
Euphorbiaceae is a humongous family of plants with literally thousands of species... it has some of the most commonly kept plants in cultivation...all are toxic... and yet cases of serious poisoning (other than the eye and skin problems) are almost unheard of. Actual numbers of deaths from Euphorbias are extremely rare... compare this with deaths from truly toxic plants like Caster Bean, Poison Hemlock or Oleander. I have treated pets for toxic reactions to plants and have yet to see more than a mild amount of vomiting from a Euphorbia..
Caution. It can blind you, it is toxic to chew on and the sap can burn your skin. Anyway, most all the toxic plant lists are extremely long, with little if any objective comments on degrees of toxicity, and Euphorbias are just one of the many of a long list of ‘heavys' in the plant world. There is some discussion of severe toxic principles of Tylecodons I did not understand as these are in no way related to Euphorbias or in the Euphorbia family. Though the article is fairly long, it is filled with very few facts and is primarily anecdotal.
Share. During the holidays, Poinsettias are a popular Christmas plant. Though they have a bad rap, poinsettia (Euphorbia pulcherrima) plants are only mildly toxic to cats and dogs. The milky white sap found in poinsettias contains chemicals called diterpenoid euphorbol esters and saponin-like detergents
For the family commonly called euphorbias, see Euphorbiaceae. Euphorbia (spurge) is a very large and diverse genus of flowering plants in the spurge family (Euphorbiaceae). Sometimes in ordinary English, euphorbia is used to refer to the entire Euphorbiaceae family (as the type genus), not just to members of the genus. Some euphorbias are well known and widely commercially available, such as Poinsettias at Christmas. Several Euphorbia species are used as food plants by the larvae of some Lepidoptera (butterflies and moths), like the Spurge Hawk-moths (Hyles euphorbiae and Hyles tithymali), as well as the Giant Leopard Moth.