Actavis plc ACT announced that the FDA approved Viberzi (eluxadoline) as a twice-daily, oral treatment for adults suffering from irritable bowel syndrome with diarrhea (IBS-D). Approximately 15 million adults in America are estimated to be affected by IBS-D. Hence, the market opportunity is immense for the drug. However, the FDA has recommended that Viberzi should be classified as a controlled substance. The agency has submitted its recommendation to the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration.
Currently, there are only few treatment options that relieve both the diarrhea and abdominal pain associated with IBS-D. Hence, the market opportunity is immense for the drug. However, the FDA has recommended that Viberzi should be classified as a controlled substance. The agency has submitted its recommendation to the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration. The updated label will be available once Viberzi receives final scheduling designation
Actavis announces FDA approval of VIBERZI (eluxadoline) for IBS-D treatment. Actavis plc (NYSE: ACT) announced today that VIBERZI™ (eluxadoline) was approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) as a twice-daily, oral treatment for adults suffering from irritable bowel syndrome with diarrhea (IBS-D). Published on May 28, 2015 at 1:46 AM · No Comments
It's exciting when physicians are able to add an additional treatment option like VIBERZI to their toolbox for patients with IBS-D.. The FDA has recommended that VIBERZI be classified as a controlled substance. This recommendation has been submitted to the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) . Once VIBERZI receives final scheduling designation, the updated label will be available. Published on May 28, 2015 at 1:46 AM · No Comments. Actavis plc (NYSE: ACT) announced today that VIBERZI™ (eluxadoline) was approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) as a twice-daily, oral treatment for adults suffering from irritable bowel syndrome with diarrhea (IBS-D).
Facebook Twitter Pinterest. DUBLIN, May 27, 2015 /PRNewswire/ -- Actavis plc (NYSE: ACT) announced today that VIBERZI™ (eluxadoline) was approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) as a twice-daily, oral treatment for adults suffering from irritable bowel syndrome with diarrhea (IBS-D). The FDA's approval of VIBERZI is the first step to providing physicians with a new, evidence-based, treatment option for their adult patients with IBS-D, said David Nicholson, Executive Vice President, Actavis Global Brands R&D.
It's exciting when physicians are able to add an additional treatment option like VIBERZI to their toolbox for patients with IBS-D.. The FDA has recommended that VIBERZI be classified as a controlled substance. The FDA's approval of VIBERZI is the first step to providing physicians with a new, evidence-based, treatment option for their adult patients with IBS-D, said David Nicholson, Executive Vice President, Actavis Global Brands R&D.
However, the FDA has recommended that Viberzi should be classified as a controlled substance. The agency has submitted its recommendation to the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration. The updated label will be available once Viberzi receives final scheduling designation. To read this article on Zacks.com click here. Zacks Investment Research. Actavis plc ACT announced that the FDA approved Viberzi (eluxadoline) as a twice-daily, oral treatment for adults suffering from irritable bowel syndrome with diarrhea (IBS-D).
1 VIBERZI is a controlled substance (CX) because it contains eluxadoline that can be a target for people who abuse prescription medicines or street drugs. 2  Keep your VIBERZI in a safe place, to protect it from theft. 3  Never give your VIBERZI to anyone else, because it may harm them. VIBERZI is a prescription medicine used to treat adults who have irritable bowel syndrome with diarrhea (IBS-D). 1  VIBERZI is a controlled substance (CX) because it contains eluxadoline that can be a target for people who abuse prescription medicines or street drugs.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. For other uses, see Substance control (disambiguation) . A controlled substance is generally a drug or chemical whose manufacture, possession, or use is regulated by a government, such as illicitly used drugs or prescription medications that are designated a Controlled Drug.