Child pornography laws in Australia prohibit all sexual depictions of children under the age of 18 (or under 16 in some states). The law also covers depictions of sexual acts involving people over the age of 18 who are simulating or otherwise alluding to being underage, even if all those involved are of a legal age. Furthermore, there is a zero-tolerance policy in place, which covers purely fictional children as well as real children
In New Zealand law, a minor is a person under 18 years of age as well, but most of the rights of adulthood are assumed at lower ages: for example, entering into contracts and having a will are legally possible at age 15. In Italy, law nr. 39 of March 8, 1975, states that a minor is a person under the age of 18. Citizens under the age of 18 may not vote (to vote for senators, 25), be elected, obtain a driving license for automobiles or issue or sign legal instruments.
In Tasmania it is a defence if the child is 15 years of age and the accused person was not more than 5 years older than the child, or if the child was above 12 years of age and the accused person was not more than 3 years older than the child. Details for other states can be found in Table 2. The legal age for consensual sex varies across Australian state and territory jurisdictions (see Table 1). The age of consent is 16 years of age in the Australian Capital Territory, New South Wales, Northern Territory, Victoria and Western Australia. In Tasmania and South Australia the age of consent is 17 years of age.
In law, a minor is a person under a certain age—usually the age of majority —which legally demarcates childhood from adulthood. The age of majority depends upon jurisdiction and application, but is generally 18. In Italy, law nr. 39 of March 8, 1975, states that a minor is a person under the age of 18. Citizens under the age of 18 may not vote (to vote for senators, 25), be elected, obtain a driving license for automobiles or issue or sign legal instruments.
A child may be willing to engage in sexual behaviour; however, as they do not have the psychological capacity to give consent according to law, all sexual interactions between an adult and a person under the age of consent are considered abusive (Barbaree & Marshall, 2006). The legal age for consensual sex varies across Australian state and territory jurisdictions (see Table 1). The age of consent is 16 years of age in the Australian Capital Territory, New South Wales, Northern Territory, Victoria and Western Australia. In Tasmania and South Australia the age of consent is 17 years of age.
A person under 16 years of age is a dependent child if you have legal responsibility, either alone or jointly with another person, for the day-to-day care, welfare and development of the child and the child is in your care or was in your care for a previous period you are claiming for. 
In England and Wales and in Northern Ireland a minor is a person under the age of 18; in Scotland, under the age of 16. The age of criminal responsibility in England and Wales and in Northern Ireland is 10; and 12 in Scotland, formerly 8, which was the lowest age in Europe. In Italy, law nr. 39 of March 8, 1975, states that a minor is a person under the age of 18. Citizens under the age of 18 may not vote (to vote for senators, 25), be elected, obtain a driving license for automobiles or issue or sign legal instruments.
Any sexual behaviour between a child under the age of consent and an adult is abusive (the age of consent is 16 years in most Australian states; see Age of Consent Laws for a more detailed discussion). Therefore, in Australia, consensual sexual activity between a 20-year-old and a 15-year-old is considered abusive, while in most jurisdictions 1 the same activity between a 20-year-old and a 17-year-old is not considered abusive.
From 1 July 2005 in Victoria, the age jurisdiction of the criminal division of the Children's Court has increased from 17 to 18 years. In Queensland, for the purposes of the Juvenile Justice Act 1992 a child is a person who has not turned 17 years. Doli incapax means a presumption that a child is incapable of crime under legislation or common law.