Function [edit]. Dystrophin is a protein located between the sarcolemma and the outermost layer of myofilaments in the muscle fiber (myofiber). It is a cohesive protein, linking actin filaments to another support protein that resides on the inside surface of each muscle fiber’s plasma membrane (sarcolemma). The dystrophin gene is one of the longest human genes known, covering 2.5 megabases (0.08% of the human genome) at locus Xp21. The primary transcript measures about 2,400 kilobases and takes 16 hours to transcribe; the mature mRNA measures 14.0 kilobases. The 79 exons code for a protein of over 3500 amino acid residues
The dystrophin gene is the largest gene found in nature, measuring 2.4 Mb. The gene was identified through a positional cloning approach, targeted at the isolation of the gene responsible for Duchenne (DMD) and Becker (BMD) Muscular Dystrophies. 1 Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy (DMD) is caused by deletion, duplication or point mutation of the dystrophin gene.Of the 7 exons most commonly deleted, 49,50 and 51 aooear to be the hot spots.
Definition of DYSTROPHIN. : a protein that is associated with a transmembrane complex of skeletal muscle cells and that is absent in Duchenne muscular dystrophy and deficient or defective in Becker muscular dystrophy. ADVERTISEMENT. dystrophy + 1-in. : a protein of high molecular weight that is associated with a transmembrane glycoprotein complex of skeletal muscle cells and is absent in Duchenne muscular dystrophy and deficient or of abnormal molecular weight
Dystrophin is a rod-shaped cytoplasmic protein, and a vital part of a protein complex that connects the cytoskeleton of a muscle fiber to the surrounding extracellular matrix through the cell membrane. This complex is variously known as the costamere or the dystrophin-associated protein complex. The dystrophin gene is one of the longest human genes known, covering 2.5 megabases (0.08% of the human genome) at locus Xp21. The primary transcript measures about 2,400 kilobases and takes 16 hours to transcribe; the mature mRNA measures 14.0 kilobases. The 79 exons code for a protein of over 3500 amino acid residues
DMD, the largest known human gene, provides instructions for making a protein called dystrophin. This protein is located primarily in muscles used for movement (skeletal muscles) and in heart (cardiac) muscle. Small amounts of dystrophin are present in nerve cells in the brain. In skeletal and cardiac muscles, dystrophin is part of a group of proteins (a protein complex) that work together to strengthen muscle fibers and protect them from injury as muscles contract and relax. The official name of this gene is “dystrophin.”. DMD is the gene's official symbol. The DMD gene is also known by other names, listed below. Read more about gene names and symbols on the About page.
Mutations in the human dystrophin gene cause the Duchenne and Becker muscular dystrophies. The Dystrophin protein provides a structural link between the muscle cytoskeleton and extracellular matrix to maintain muscle integrity. These results indicate that the postsynaptically localized scaffolding protein Dystrophin is required for appropriate control of neuromuscular synaptic homeostasis (van der Plas, 2006). Duchenne (DMD) and Becker muscular dystrophy are caused by mutations in the dystrophin (dys) gene. Dystrophin and its partially redundant homolog Utrophin are associated with a number of other proteins, members of the Dystrophin-glycoprotein complex (DGC)