1 Calcium stones. 2  Most kidney stones are calcium stones, usually in the form of calcium oxalate. 3  Oxalate is a naturally occurring substance found in food. 4  Some fruits and vegetables, as well as nuts and chocolate, have high oxalate levels. Types of kidney stones include: 1  Calcium stones. 2  Most kidney stones are calcium stones, usually in the form of calcium oxalate. 3  Oxalate is a naturally occurring substance found in food. 4  Some fruits and vegetables, as well as nuts and chocolate, have high oxalate levels. 5  Your liver also produces oxalate
Kidney stones, or renal calculi, are solid masses made of crystals. Kidney stones usually originate in your kidneys, but can develop anywhere along your urinary tract. The urinary tract includes the kidneys, ureters, bladder, and urethra. Kidney stones are known to be one of the most painful medical conditions. Kidney stones are known to cause severe pain. Symptoms of kidney stones may not occur until the stone begins to move down the ureters. This severe pain is called renal colic. You may have pain on one side of your back or abdomen.
Kidney stones. Kidney stones (renal lithiasis, nephrolithiasis) are small, hard mineral deposits that form inside your kidneys. The stones are made of mineral and acid salts. Kidney stones have many causes and can affect any part of your urinary tract — from your kidneys to your bladder. Often, stones form when the urine becomes concentrated, allowing minerals to crystallize and stick together. Passing kidney stones can be quite painful, but the stones usually cause no permanent damage. Kidney stones (renal lithiasis, nephrolithiasis) are small, hard mineral deposits that form inside your kidneys. The stones are made of mineral and acid salt
1 Dehydration is a major risk factor for kidney stone formation. 2  Symptoms of a kidney stone include flank pain (the pain can be quite severe) and blood in the urine (hematuria). 3  People with certain medical conditions, such as gout, and those who take certain medications or supplements are at risk for kidney stones. 1 Nephrolithiasis is the medical term for kidney stones. 2  One in every 20 people develop kidney stones at some point in their life. 3  Kidney stones form when there is a decrease in urine volume and/or an excess of stone-forming substances in the urine.
After it is formed, the stone may stay in the kidney or travel down the urinary tract into the ureter. Sometimes, tiny stones move out of the body in the urine without causing too much pain. But stones that don't move may cause a back-up of urine in the kidney, ureter, the bladder, or the urethra. There are four main types of stones: 1  Calcium oxalate: The most common type of kidney stone which is created when calcium combines with oxalate in the urine. 2  Inadequate calcium and fluid intake, as well other conditions, may contribute to their formation.
A kidney stone is a hard, crystalline mineral material formed within the kidney or urinary tract. Kidney stones are a common cause of blood in the urine (hematuria) and often severe pain in the abdomen, flank, or groin. Kidney stones are sometimes called renal calculi. Kidney Stone Treatment. Most kidney stones eventually pass from the kidney through the ureter and bladder and finally through the urethra on their own. However, treatment is often required for pain control from kidney stones as they pass.
1 Symptoms of a kidney stone include flank pain (the pain can be quite severe) and blood in the urine (hematuria). 2  People with certain medical conditions, such as gout, and those who take certain medications or supplements are at risk for kidney stones. 3  Diet and hereditary factors are also related to stone formation. 1 Nephrolithiasis is the medical term for kidney stones. 2  One in every 20 people develop kidney stones at some point in their life. 3  Kidney stones form when there is a decrease in urine volume and/or an excess of stone-forming substances in the urine.
A kidney stone, also known as a renal calculus or nephrolith, is a solid piece of material which is formed in the kidneys from minerals in urine. Kidney stones typically leave the body in the urine stream, and a small stone may pass without causing symptoms. Urinary stones are typically classified by their location in the kidney (nephrolithiasis), ureter (ureterolithiasis), or bladder (cystolithiasis), or by their chemical composition (calcium-containing, struvite, uric acid, or other compounds).