The country is the largest agricultural producer in Western Europe and one of the world’s leading exporters of farm products. All the farms have electricity, and most have modern farm machinery with an average holding of 28 hectares. Nearly two-thirds of French farm income comes from meat and dairy animals. Wheat is the major single crop grown at large farms in the Paris Basin and in the north. In southern France, most of the grapes produced are used in making wine being of high quality that come from several regions.
France has been one of the most dominant agricultural centers of Europe for centuries. That gave France an important role in European and, to some extent world, affairs in the pre-industrial age. The major agricultural products that place France among the top producers in the world market are sugar beets, wine, milk, beef and veal, cereals, and oilseeds.
The most important crop was wheat. Wheat was used to make flour. The farmers ground the wheat grains in the seigneur's flour mill. They would pay the seigneur with part of the … flour for the use of his mill. 1 France may be a small country in Western Europe, but the impact of French cu…. 2  The Weather in France Though France is only the size of Texas, it is situated in an area where weather varies greatly.
Confidence votes 902. Various plants such as cereals, wheat, barely, oat, corn are grown in France. Crops such as grapes, corn, barely rapeseed are also cultivated. 
One-third of France’s land is crop growing. Wheat is the major single crop grown at large farms in the Paris Basin and in the north. In southern France, most of the grapes produced are used in making wine being of high quality that come from several regions. In the Mediterranean region, grapes are used for cheaper wines
France's forests have grown 35 percent since 1945 and continue to grow by about 30,000 hectares each year. Close to 4 million people in France have private ownership of wooded areas. The marketed wood harvest was up in 1998 from its level in 1997 by about 1.6 percent. The major agricultural products that place France among the top producers in the world market are sugar beets, wine, milk, beef and veal, cereals, and oilseeds.
Food of France-a regional guide. You are here: French recipes French foods by region. When people talk of French food in restaurants they are usually referring to sophistication, fine food and wine and expensive restaurants. South-West France: In the south-west of France the emphasis is on rich foods. The main specialities are duck, foie gras, prunes, oysters, mushrooms and truffles. And of course a nice rich red Bordeaux wine to go with it.
France is one of the largest wine producers in the world. French wine traces its history to the 6th century BC, with many of France's regions dating their wine-making history to Roman times. The wines produced range from expensive high-end wines sold internationally to more modest wines usually only seen within France. France is the source of many grape varieties (Cabernet Sauvignon, Chardonnay, Pinot noir, Sauvignon blanc, Syrah) that are now planted throughout the world, as well as wine-making practices and styles of wine that have been adopted in other producing countries.
Ironic really, because the average French person can (and does) eat well in a restaurant less expensively than his counterparts in many other countries. The difference lies rather in the knowledge of local French food, and interest in food, of the average French person compared with most other countries. South-West France: In the south-west of France the emphasis is on rich foods. The main specialities are duck, foie gras, prunes, oysters, mushrooms and truffles. And of course a nice rich red Bordeaux wine to go with it.
It takes second place in both the EU and the world in the production of its highly popular wine varieties, with 5.3 million metric tons. Though fifth in the world, France ranks second in the EU in milk production, totaling 23.3 million metric tons. The major agricultural products that place France among the top producers in the world market are sugar beets, wine, milk, beef and veal, cereals, and oilseeds.