Definition. Anaphora is a rhetorical term for the repetition of a word or phrase at the beginning of successive clauses. Adjective: anaphoric. Compare with epiphora and epistrophe. By building toward a climax, anaphora can create a strong emotional effect
In writing or speech, the deliberate repetition of the first part of the sentence in order to achieve an artistic effect is known as Anaphora. Anaphora, possibly the oldest literary device, has its roots in Biblical Psalms used to emphasize certain words or phrases. 
Definition of ANAPHORA. 1. 2. : use of a grammatical substitute (as a pronoun or a pro-verb) to refer to the denotation of a preceding word or group of words; also: the relation between a grammatical substitute and its antecedent. ADVERTISEMENT
Poetry Definition. The repetition of the same word or group of words at the beginning of several consecutive sentences or verses to emphasize an image or a concept. Also called epanaphora. 
17 search results for anaphora. Anaphora Definition In writing or speech, the deliberate repetition of the first part of the sentence in order to achieve an artistic effect is known as Anaphora. Anaphora, possibly…. 
anaphora. the repetition of a word or words at the beginning of two or more successive verses or clauses, as the repetition of Blessed in the Beatitudes. Cf. epanaphora, epiphora. — anaphoral, adj. n. 1. The deliberate repetition of a word or phrase at the beginning of several successive verses, clauses, or paragraphs; for example, We shall fight on the beaches, we shall fight on the landing grounds, we shall fight in the fields and in the streets, we shall fight in the hills (Winston S. Churchill).
Definition of Anaphora. Anaphora is a literary and rhetorical device in which a word or group of words is repeated at the beginning of two or more successive clauses or sentences. This technique adds emphasis and unity to the clauses. 1. Choose the correct anaphora definition: A. Repetition of a word or group of words at the beginning of adjacent clauses. B. Repetition of a word or group of words at the end of adjacent clauses. C. Repetition of a word at both the beginning and