If you cancel before your contract ends, you will be charged a deactivation fee of $15 plus a prorated early cancellation fee of up to $20 a month. With DIRECTV, you get the TV you love anywhere you love to watch it, plus the technology to experience it like never before! We hope you’re enjoying your DIRECTV and will stay with us for many years to come. However, if you do want to cancel your account, we want to be sure we've done everything we can to make your DIRECTV experience a great one. Please call 1-800-531-5000 to speak with a customer service representative. *DIRECTV and AT&T bundle customers: Your cancellation fees will vary depending on the service you wish to cancel. Also, if you choose to cancel only one of the services, you may no longer qualify for certain discounts. Please call us at 1-800-288-2020 for more information.
How To Beat DirecTV's Early Termination Fee. Depending on the contract you are stuck in, it can cost anywhere between $100 and $480 to cancel your DirecTV account early. On average, DirecTV charges about $20 per month remaining on your contract. If they will not waive the fee, do not cancel. If all goes well, they will acknowledge that they are going to waive the cancellation fee and give you information on what to do with your DirecTV equipment. It's not over when the phone call ends.
Now, 1 year into that contract, Im moving back in with my parents because I can no longer afford to keep my house (which is hard enough as it is). Ive heard DirecTV has been known to waive the early termination fee if you move to a place thats out of their coverage area or that cannot have a dish installed. 
Any way to get out of paying early termination fee for DirecTv... I have to move due to my job and not able to have a  dish where moving too.... Submitted: 3 years ago. Category: Consumer Protection Law. 
DIRECTV is one of the biggest names in the business with more than 20 million customers. Through TV, print, direct mail, phone, and online promotions, the company advertises satellite TV packages for as low as $19.99 a month for 12 months. Splashdice replied on Mar 11, 2015 8:19PM Permalink. Just signed up with DirecTV in early January, second bill (Feb) saw and increase due to equipment fees and an added sports channel tax for which I do not even subscribe. When I called to cancel my service, I was told I would have to pay a $400 fee to cancel.
If you cancel your service or if your account was deactivated because you did not maintain the minimum programming requirements, you will be charged a deactivation fee of $15. We hope you’re enjoying your DIRECTV and will stay with us for many years to come. However, if you do want to cancel your account, we want to be sure we've done everything we can to make your DIRECTV experience a great one. Please call 1-800-531-5000 to speak with a customer service representative. *DIRECTV and AT&T bundle customers: Your cancellation fees will vary depending on the service you wish to cancel. Also, if you choose to cancel only one of the services, you may no longer qualify for certain discounts. Please call us at 1-800-288-2020 for more information
Comments About DIRECTV Review: Cancellation fee from Directv. When I signed up for Direct TV, I was told that my monthly bill for the 1st 12 months was going to be $51.99 = tax. I then got a confirmation email breaking down my entire bill with the end total being $51.99 = Tax. So my first bill was $65.99. 
I explained my situation but they were adamant about the charges. So I went with the competition and Directv took $419 from my bank account without notice. When I called them, Directv said they would refund my money if I came back to them and would not charge me the $199 relocation fee. 