Sealcoat is the most important material used in protecting and beautifying new and old pavement. It slows and prevents deterioration of your driveway or parking lot area. 
Since asphalt is a petroleum based product, other petroleum products may react with the surface. This includes vehicle oil and gasoline. The sealcoat may act as a temporary barrier against those materials. 
In commercial settings, a water-based, sealcoating job of an average parking lot is likely to total at around $500. This also includes line-striping and other lot markings and signage. However, this number can change as the parking lot and driveway size increases. When people find out how affordable sealcoating really is, they are often elated and surprised. An average driveway, from start to finish, typically costs around $200. That includes everything, cleaning and prepping and application of the sealcoating material.
Download PDF. Asphalt pavement, to keep in simple terms, is primarily rock and/or stone and gravel, along with a binder. The rock, or aggregate, is held together with this binder also known as asphalt cement. The binder is created from the distillation process of certain crude oils. Sealcoats are typically bituminous based products or acrylics. The sealcoat is in a liquid formulation of one of the above emulsions, mixed with water, silica sand, polymer additives, and other proprietary fillers and solids. These products can be applied by brush, spray or squeegee.
Sealcoating applies a protective layer to shield the surface against oils, water, moisture and UV rays. Seal coating offers a slip resistant top with a shiny black finish that not only smooths out your parking or driveway but also makes it look good. Sealcoats are basically bituminous based products or acrylics. 
Sealcoating will provide a layer of protection blocking out the elements: water, oils, and U.V. damage. In addition, when applied to manufacturers’ specifications, sealcoating provides a slip resistant surface with a deep black finish that beautifies the parking lot or driveway. Sealcoats are typically bituminous based products or acrylics. The sealcoat is in a liquid formulation of one of the above emulsions, mixed with water, silica sand, polymer additives, and other proprietary fillers and solids. These products can be applied by brush, spray or squeegee.
Sealcoating stops cracks, gaps, leaks, and rapid degradation of the surface and thus prolongs the life of your asphalt pavement surface. As with any other project, price is certainly a chief concern. When people find out how affordable sealcoating really is, they are often elated and surprised. An average driveway, from start to finish, typically costs around $200. That includes everything, cleaning and prepping and application of the sealcoating material.
Sealcoating is a type of liquid that is used on asphalt in order to keep it protected from various damaging agents that reduce its lifespan. These agents include oxidation, UV rays, traffic, as well as winter cracking. Sealcoating is essential for pavements, driveways, parking lots, and asphalts in cold climates. However, for warmer climates, sealcoating is equally effective. Asphalt is produced by petroleum, and therefore, it is prone to reacting with other petroleum products. To stop asphalt from having this effect, sealcoating is required. In simpler words, sealcoating is the application of a top coating which acts as a protective material over the asphalt surface. Apart from that, some cracks in concrete are also likely to occur due to trees
Sealcoating asphalt prevents the seepage of water and moisture from rain and snow, thus preventing damage from freeze thaw cycles which is a common reason your driveway or parking lot begins forming cracks or even worse, alligator cracks. Another benefit of sealcoating, is that it helps protect the asphalt from the sun as well as the harmful effects of chemical spills such as oil and gasoline, both which are all too common on a driveway or parkinglot.