MICROWAVES. You may be familiar with microwave images as they are used on TV weather news and you can even use microwaves to cook your food. Microwave ovens work by using microwave about 12 centimeters in length to force water and fat molecules in food to rotate. Microwaves are a portion or band found at the higher frequency end of the radio spectrum, but they are commonly distinguished from radio waves because of the technologies used to access them. Different wavelengths of microwaves (grouped into sub-bands) provide different information to scientists.
The longer microwaves, those closer to a foot in length, are the waves which heat our food in a microwave oven. Microwaves are good for transmitting information from one place to another because microwave energy can penetrate haze, light rain and snow, clouds, and smoke. Shorter microwaves are used in remote sensing. These microwaves are used for radar like the doppler radar used in weather forecasts. Microwaves, used for radar, are just a few inches long. This microwave tower can transmit information like telephone calls and computer data from one city to another. 
The term Microwave is a description of a high frequency radio wave in the range of 1 Gigahertz (One million cycles per second) to 40 gigahertz (40 million cycles per second). Radio waves at this frequency have the tenancy to reflect & refract making them useful for a wide number of applications. 
When microwaves are absorbed by food containing water, it causes the water molecules to vibrate. This produces heat. Microwaves do not use x-rays or gamma rays, and they do not make food radioactive. Microwave ovens can cook food, but do not otherwise change the chemical or molecular structure of it. Microwave ovens are designed so that the microwaves are contained within the oven itself. The oven only makes microwaves when the door is shut and the oven is turned on. When microwave ovens are used according to instructions, there is no evidence that they pose a health risk to people
Microwaves are basically extremely high frequency radio waves, and are made by various types of transmitter. In a mobile phone, they're made by a transmitter chip and an antenna, in a microwave oven they're made by a magnetron. Their wavelength is usually a couple of centimetres. Stars also give off microwaves. So we can use microwaves to cook many types of food. Mobile phones use microwaves, as they can be generated by a small antenna, which means that the phone doesn't need to be very big. The drawback is that, being small, they can't put out much power, and they also need a line of sight to the
Microwaves are a form of electromagnetic radiation with wavelengths ranging from one meter to one millimeter; with frequencies between 300 MHz (100 cm) and 300 GHz (0.1 cm). In all cases, microwave includes the entire SHF band (3 to 30 GHz, or 10 to 1 cm) at minimum, with RF engineering often restricting the range between 1 and 100 GHz (300 and 3 mm).
Microwave heat sources. One of the most common uses of microwaves is to heat food quickly. Microwave ovens are possible because microwaves can be used to transmit thermal energy. The discovery of this phenomenon was purely accidental. Microwaves have frequencies ranging from about 3 billion cycles per second, or 3 gigahertz (GHz), up to about 30 trillion hertz (terahertz or THz) and wavelengths of about 30 centimeters (12 inches) to 3 millimeters (0.12 inches), although these values are not definitive.
A microwave oven, commonly referred to as a microwave, is a kitchen appliance that heats and cooks food by exposing it to electromagnetic radiation in the microwave spectrum. This induces polar molecules in the food to rotate and produce thermal energy in a process known as dielectric heating. Cookware used in a microwave oven is often much cooler than the food because the cookware is transparent to microwaves; the microwaves heat the food directly and the cookware is indirectly heated by the food.
Microwaves are a type of electromagnetic radiation, as are radio waves, ultraviolet radiation, X-rays and gamma-rays. Microwaves have a range of applications, including communications, radar and, perhaps best known by most people, cooking. Microwaves have frequencies ranging from about 3 billion cycles per second, or 3 gigahertz (GHz), up to about 30 trillion hertz (terahertz or THz) and wavelengths of about 30 centimeters (12 inches) to 3 millimeters (0.12 inches), although these values are not definitive.