Definition of LEITMOTIF. 1. : an associated melodic phrase or figure that accompanies the reappearance of an idea, person, or situation especially in a Wagnerian music drama. 2. : a dominant recurring theme
A leitmotif or leitmotiv /ˌlaɪtmoʊˈtiːf/ is a short, constantly recurring musical phrase  associated with a particular person, place, or idea. The spelling leitmotif is an anglicization of the German Leitmotiv, literally meaning leading motif, or perhaps more accurately, guiding motif. A musical motif has been defined as a short musical idea ...
The term leitmotif was first applied to the operas of Richard Wagner to describe a recurring melody that is associated with a certain character, people, object, place, emotion, or idea. 
Richard Wagner is the earliest composer most specifically associated with the concept of leitmotif. His cycle of four operas, Der Ring des Nibelungen (the music for which was written between 1853 and 1869), uses hundreds of leitmotifs, often related to specific characters, things, or situations. The spelling leitmotif is an anglicization of the German Leitmotiv, literally meaning leading motif, or perhaps more accurately, guiding motif. A musical motif has been defined as a short musical idea ...
Leitmotif associated with Siegfried in Richard Wagner 's opera of the same name Play (help·info). A leitmotif or leitmotiv /ˌlaɪtmoʊˈtiːf/ is a short, constantly recurring musical phrase  associated with a particular person, place, or idea. It is closely related to the musical concepts of idee idée fixe or-motto. theme The spelling leitmotif is an anglicization of the German Leitmotiv, literally meaning leading motif, or perhaps more accurately, guiding motif. A musical motif has been defined as a short musical idea ...
leitmotif. n. 1. (Classical Music) music a recurring short melodic phrase or theme used, esp in Wagnerian music dramas, to suggest a character, thing, etc. 2. (Literary & Literary Critical Terms) an often repeated word, phrase, image, or theme in a literary work. Noun. 1. leitmotif-a melodic phrase that accompanies the reappearance of a person or situation (as in Wagner's operas). leitmotiv. melodic line, melodic phrase, melody, tune, strain, air, line-a succession of notes forming a distinctive sequence; she was humming an air from Beethoven. leitmotiv