Get a custom bioidentical hormone prescription today – call us at (914) 238-1700. The average cost for hormones range from $31-$85 per month depending on the volume. But the really good news is Bioidentical Hormone Therapy cost is usually offset by substantial savings related to eliminating other medications and improvements in overall health and quality of life. 
Hormone replacement therapy of the female-to-male type is a type of hormone replacement therapy for transgender and transsexual people. It introduces hormones associated with the gender that the patient identifies with (notably testosterone for trans men and estrogen for trans women). 
1 Walmart offers several generic HRT drugs for $4 for a monthly supply. 2  Hormone replacement therapy was much more commonly prescribed before a 2002 study exposed some risks, such as an increased risk of heart disease, blood clots, strokes and breast cancer. Related articles: Bone Density Test. 1  For patients not covered by health insurance, the average monthly cost of hormone replacement therapy can range from about $10 to $85, depending on the drug used.
Potential patients often ask, a€œHow oehow œhow much does bioidentical hormone?therapy€ Cost a â the simple answeris approximately $ 200 permonth or $. 2400 per year The average cost for hormones ranges from $45-$55 per month. However, some patients opt for pellet therapy as opposed to traditional delivery methods, such as creams, gels, patches and pills.
Additional costs: 1  Hormone replacement therapy typically contains synthetic versions of the hormones estrogen and progestin or a combination of the two. 2  Hormone replacement therapy generally is available in the form of a pill, a patch, a gel, a vaginal cream or a slow-releasing vaginal ring. Related articles: Bone Density Test. 1  For patients not covered by health insurance, the average monthly cost of hormone replacement therapy can range from about $10 to $85, depending on the drug used.
1 For patients not covered by health insurance, the average monthly cost of hormone replacement therapy can range from about $10 to $85, depending on the drug used. Related articles: Bone Density Test. 1  For patients not covered by health insurance, the average monthly cost of hormone replacement therapy can range from about $10 to $85, depending on the drug used.
Generally, a 6-month hormone replacement therapy plan can cost anywhere from $2,500 to more than $10,000. That might seem like a huge range-and it is. The reason the range is so big is due to the reason we listed above: personalization. Hormone Therapy Cost. Each AAG HealthGAINS hormone therapy plan is specifically designed for the individual patient. We don’t just place you in a cookie-cutter HRT program and send you out the door.
1 An initial doctor visit is required, and that can cost between $75 and $200 without insurance. 2  Before prescribing HRT, the doctor probably will order a blood test to check hormone levels, and it can cost about $1,000 without insurance. Related articles: Bone Density Test. 1  For patients not covered by health insurance, the average monthly cost of hormone replacement therapy can range from about $10 to $85, depending on the drug used.
This will cover your physician consultations, the costs you are going to incur in labs, as well as the pharmacies and supplements you will be prescribed by your doctor. The average cost for hormones ranges from $45-$55 per month. However, some patients opt for pellet therapy as opposed to traditional delivery methods, such as creams, gels, patches and pills. Pellet therapy usually costs $250-$300, but pellet insertion is only necessary once every 6 months