It is used in obese patients who have not been able to lose weight with diet and exercise alone. Phentermine belongs to the group of medicines known as appetite suppressants. This medicine is available only with your doctor's prescription. 
How to use Adipex-P. Take this medication by mouth as directed by your doctor, usually once a day, 1 hour before breakfast or 1 to 2 hours after breakfast. If needed, your doctor may adjust your dose to take a small dose up to 3 times a day.
Get to a Pharmacy. If you have a prescription from your doctor then you can then order Adipex through your insurance if you have at home delivery. However, this is not available with all insurance plans. Since Adipex is not a drug which is meant to be taken long term, you might have troubles getting a refill on your medication. You might need to go to the doctor on a regular basis in order to be weighed to see how you are progressing.
Suzy – Adipex can only be obtained with a prescription from your doctor. If you have a prescription then the safest place to order Adipex would be at a walk-in pharmacy. It is currently illegal to sell Adipex online and any website doing so is not trustworthy. Since Adipex is not a drug which is meant to be taken long term, you might have troubles getting a refill on your medication. You might need to go to the doctor on a regular basis in order to be weighed to see how you are progressing.
Adipex (brand name Adipex-P) is a prescription weight loss drug with Phentermine HCL. Manufactured by Teva Pharmaceuticals in the United States. Often comes with 37.5mg of active ingredient Phentermine HCL in the tablet or capsule form. Buying Adipex P without prescription is not recommended because of Phentermine HCL, however you can get Phentermine free diet pills on our web site without need of a prescription. As we mentioned above, Phentermine HCL is a main ingredient in Adipex P.
How To Order Adipex. It is possible to order Adipex, either through your insurance, a pharmacy or online as long as you have a doctor’s prescription. Getting diet pills seems much easier in the days of the internet. Not only is getting online fast and easy, but shopping is safer and more secure. Since Adipex is not a drug which is meant to be taken long term, you might have troubles getting a refill on your medication. You might need to go to the doctor on a regular basis in order to be weighed to see how you are progressing.
Adipex, a brand name of the medication phentermine, can be used with diet and exercise to help people lose weight. This medication is a stimulant similar to an amphentamine and can be habit-forming. Although the medication can prove useful to obese individuals with medical issues stemming from their weight, it should not be used as a casual weight loss product.
Normally cost of visit will be around $500 and each bottle of Adipex with Phentermine 37.5mg will cost you in the range of $400 for one month supply. We offer alternative product you can buy without prescription for $79.95 - PhenObestin 37.5 Extra Strength. Buying Adipex P without prescription is not recommended because of Phentermine HCL, however you can get Phentermine free diet pills on our web site without need of a prescription. As we mentioned above, Phentermine HCL is a main ingredient in Adipex P.
This medication may stop working well after you have been taking it for a few weeks. Talk with your doctor if this medication stops working well. Do not increase the dose unless directed by your doctor. Your doctor may direct you to stop taking this medication. Take this medication by mouth as directed by your doctor, usually once a day, 1 hour before breakfast or 1 to 2 hours after breakfast. If needed, your doctor may adjust your dose to take a small dose up to 3 times a day.
Dcotor writing a prescription in office. Photo Credit 4774344sean/iStock/Getty Images. Adipex, a brand name of the medication phentermine, can be used with diet and exercise to help people lose weight. This medication is a stimulant similar to an amphentamine and can be habit-forming. Although the medication can prove useful to obese individuals with medical issues stemming from their weight, it should not be used as a casual weight loss product. Individuals should only take Adipex with a valid prescription and under the guidance of a doctor