In Ghana, it is hog plum or Ashanti plum. It is called Akukor in the Ewe language of Ghana. In Nigeria, the fruit is called Iyeye or Yeye in the Yoruba language, ngulungwu in Igbo and isada in Hausa. Other common names include hug plum, true yellow mombin, golden apple or Java plum, Ambaralla (ඇඹරැල්ල) in Sri Lanka. In Assamese it is called Omora (অমৰা) . A leaf infusion is a common cough remedy or used as a laxative for fever with constipation. A leaf decoction is used for gonorrhea. The leaves with the leaves of Vitex quinata and Terminalia avicennoides, are used on the Ivory Coast for fresh wounds preventing inflammation. All these leaves are used for leprosy.
Inform our African people about African star apple (Udara in Igbo, Agbalumo in Yoruba) health benefits. Africa research, African star apple, African star apple seed, Agbalumo benefits, Agbalumo English name, Agbalumo fruit, Chrysophyllum albidum fruit, Nigeria, white star apple. A recent study by researchers at the Department of Biological Sciences, College of Science and Technology, Covenant University Ogun State in Nigeria showed that the local cherry fruit, African star apple (Agbalumo, Udara) lowered blood sugar and cholesterol, and could be useful in preventing and treating heart diseases.
Maybe not! Okay, here’s another name that may ring a bell: Agbalumo! And if you are still wondering what it is, Agbalumo, is that round, sharp tasting, orange-coloured (sometimes red) fruit about the size of a table-tennis ball. The leaf is also used as an emollient and for the treatment of skin eruption, stomach ache and diarrhea. . So the next time you pick up Agbalumo, remember that you are not only satisfying your craving for the delicious fruit, you are also providing your body with vital nutrition.
AGBALUMO is called the WHITE STAR APPLE. The most important reason is that it is a closely related specie to the Star Apple. As a result their Botanical names are similar: For the proper Star Apple, It has round, purple-skinned fruit that is often green around the calyx, with a star pattern in the pulp. Other similarities to the Agbalumo includes the radial arrangement of its seed, the color and shape of the seeds, and the latex rich rind. It is for these reasons of its' close relations and several similarities to the Star Apple the Agbalumo was given this English name. 1 White Star Apple, which is the common Agbalumo, is Chyrysophyllum Albidum, 2  The African Star apple is Chyrysophyllum Africanum, Which is a third, closely related but less common specie.
Botanically called Chrysophyllum albidum, white star apple belongs to the Sapotaceae family. It is distributed throughout the southern part of Nigeria. In Southwestern Nigeria, the fruit is called agbalumo and popularly referred to as udara in Southeastern Nigeria. Chrysophyllum albidum is a popular tropical fruit tree and widely distributed in the low land rain forest zones and frequently found in villages. A recent study by researchers at the Department of Biological Sciences, College of Science and Technology, Covenant University Ogun State in Nigeria showed that the local cherry fruit, African star apple (Agbalumo, Udara) lowered blood sugar and cholesterol, and could be useful in preventing and treating heart diseases.
It is also called White Star Apple. Local Name: Agbalumo (Yoruba language) or Udara (Igbo language) Botanical Name: Chrysophyllum albidum The Chrysophyllum genus of plants consists of almost 80 different species of fruits all exclusively grown within the tropical region. 
African star apple also known as Agbalumo or Udara in Nigeria, is associated with the dry season and has been enjoyed over the years by Nigerians as a fruit. But more studies are supporting its folklore use for treating diseases such as diabetes, heart diseases and drug resistant bacteria. 
In Thailand this fruit is called makok (Thai: มะกอก) and is used in som tam as a secondary ingredient. The young leaves, which taste slightly bitter and sour, are sometimes served raw together with certain types of nam phrik (Thai chilli pastes). A leaf infusion is a common cough remedy or used as a laxative for fever with constipation. A leaf decoction is used for gonorrhea. The leaves with the leaves of Vitex quinata and Terminalia avicennoides, are used on the Ivory Coast for fresh wounds preventing inflammation. All these leaves are used for leprosy.
Popularly called Agbalumo, Udara, and Otien in some parts of Nigeria, the African cherry fruit has lots of health benefits that will surprise anyone! The exotic fruit which has a chewable edible skin that ranges in color from green to orange, depending on the stage of ripeness. 
Please try again later. THE POPULAR FRUIT AGBALUMO AS IT IS CALLED IN THE YORUBA TRIBE OF NIGERIA OR UDALA IN THE EASTERN PART, HAS AN ENGLISH NAME THAT A LOT OF PEOPLE DO NOT KNOW ABOUT. IF YOU ARE ONE OF THOSE PEOPLE, WATCH THIS HILLARIOUS EPISODE AND BE ENLIGHTENED. 