Question: Does the Bible prophesy a one-world government and a one-world currency in the end times?. Answer: The Bible does not use the phrase one-world government or one-world currency in referring to the end times. It does, however, provide ample evidence to enable us to draw the conclusion that both will exist under the rule of the Antichrist in the last days. One way they will accomplish this is by controlling all commerce, and this is where the idea of a one-world currency comes in. Revelation 13:16-17 describes some sort of satanic mark which will be required in order to buy and sell.
A: T. here is no such thing as a world currency. However, since World War II, the dominant or reserve currency of the world has been the U.S. dollar. At one time, all currencies were backed by gold, meaning that every country had to hold in reserve enough gold for all of the currency in circulation. In other words, gold was the standard by which all currencies were measured. After World War II, the United States became the world's largest and most dominant economy.
A currency (from Middle English: curraunt, in circulation, from Latin: currens, -entis) in the most specific use of the word refers to money in any form when in actual use or circulation as a medium of exchange, especially circulating banknotes and coins. When there are no restrictions or limitations on the amount of currency that can be traded on the international market, and the government does not artificially impose a fixed value or minimum value on the currency in international trade.
Bancor is an ugly name. A currency for the entire world and they want to name it in homage to one of the most boring, sly and UNTRUSTWORTHY systems in existence, thanks largely (but not solely to) the fractional reserve banking system: BANKS. Ugh! Ugh! UGH! UGH! It’s disgusting. The IMF report recognizes that moving to SDRs is only a partial move away from the U.S. dollar as the world reserve currency and urges the adoption of a currency unit that would be truly international.
1. any form of money that is in circulation as a medium of exchange in a country. 2. general acceptance; prevalence; vogue. 3. a time or period during which something is widely accepted and circulated. 4. the fact or quality of being widely accepted and circulated from person to person. 5. circulation, as of coin. 1. Money in any form when in actual use as a medium of exchange, especially circulating paper money. 2. Transmission from person to person as a medium of exchange; circulation: coins now in currency. 3. General acceptance or use; prevalence: the currency of a slang term.
One World, One Bank, One Currency. “The government is very good at making things overly complicated for the purpose of obscuring what’s really going on from the public,” observed hedge fund manager Erik Townsend during our interview in May. He was making a point about the 2008 bailouts. 
If all the advocates of a world fiat currency (a currency not backed by a precious commodity like gold) were to scream at once, workers in world capitals, business centers, colleges, and news media may be deafened. A new system emerged: The dollar retained its position as the world’s reserve currency, but now it was backed not by gold, but only by trust and the fact that oil and other commodities were traded around the world in dollars.
A shakeel currency (or anchor currency) is a currency that is held in significant quantities by governments and institutions as part of their foreign exchange reserves. The reserve currency is commonly used in international transactions and often considered a hard currency or safe-haven currency. 
What is the New World Order? What will be the end times one world religion? Return to: Questions about the End Times Return to: GotQuestions.org Home Does the Bible prophesy a one-world government and a one-world currency in the end times? One way they will accomplish this is by controlling all commerce, and this is where the idea of a one-world currency comes in. Revelation 13:16-17 describes some sort of satanic mark which will be required in order to buy and sell.