Declaring Independence: Drafting the Documents. The document we know as the Declaration of Independence was not written in just one sitting. Thomas Jefferson toiled for many weeks, while John Adams, Ben Franklin, and others contributed to the process. The Library of Congress presents a fantastic site dedicated to the development of the Declaration. 
The Declaration of Independence wasn’t signed on July 4, 1776. On July 1, 1776, the Second Continental Congress met in Philadelphia, and on the following day 12 of the 13 colonies voted in favor of Richard Henry Lee’s motion for independence. 
The American Declaration of Independence was written during the  month of June 1776 (roughly June 11th to June 28th, with slight  variations following), with the primary dra … fts penned by Thomas  Jefferson. Revisions were made by other members of the same  committee of which Jefferson was a part. It was written in what is now called Declaration House.. Thomas Jefferson rented a second floor space in the house of a bricklayer named Graff at 7th and Market Streets … near the outskirts of Philadelphia, because he couldn't work in all the noise in the main part of town.
In Jefferson's words, the Declaration was written, In order to place before mankind the common sense of the matter in terms so plain and simple as to command their assent.. The Declaration of Independence was drafted and sent to King George III of England politely requesting independence from English rule. It was written in what is now called Declaration House.. Thomas Jefferson rented a second floor space in the house of a bricklayer named Graff at 7th and Market Streets … near the outskirts of Philadelphia, because he couldn't work in all the noise in the main part of town.
The committee included Benjamin Franklin, John Adams, Roger Sherman, Robert Livingston and Thomas Jefferson. Jefferson was then given the task of writing a draft for the Declaration of Independence, which from June 11 to June 28 he worked on. The signing of the Declaration of Independence. The Declaration of Independence is without a doubt one of the most important documents ever to be written in American history. It was signed by fifty-six different men, all representatives from different states.
The Declaration of Independence combined purpose with principle. In June 1776 the Congress of the united colonies appointed five delegates to produce a formal written declaration of independence, after several weeks Thomas Jefferson completed the draft.It was written to King George III and the world to read.
The U.S. Declaration of Independence was created sometime in between June and July 1776. It was ratified on July 4 of that very same year. Overall, 56 Continental Congress delegates approved and signed the document. Among the represented states were Georgia, South Carolina and Virginia. The Declaration of Independence served as one of the foundations of the United States. It marked the liberation of the country from the rule of the British Empire. Furthermore, it also helped in the establishment of several independent colonies that will then merge and become the United States of America.
Written in June 1776, Thomas Jefferson's draft of the Declaration of Independence, included eighty-six changes made later by John Adams (1735-1826), Benjamin Franklin 1706-1790), other members of the committee appointed to draft the document, and by Congress. Thomas Jefferson's Draft of a Constitution for Virginia, predecessor of The Declaration Of Independence. Immediately on learning that the Virginia Convention had called for independence on May 15, 1776, Jefferson, a Virginia delegate to the Continental Congress, wrote at least three drafts of a Virginia constitution.
The Declaration of Independence The Declaration of Independence was written in the summer of 1776 primarily by Thomas Jefferson, agreed upon on July 2 by the Second Continental Congress, sent to the printer on July 4, and all signatures were collected in the following weeks. The American Declaration of Independence was written during the  month of June 1776 (roughly June 11th to June 28th, with slight  variations following), with the primary dra … fts penned by Thomas  Jefferson.