Goshen /ˈɡoʊʃən/ is a city in and the county seat of Elkhart County, Indiana, United States. It is the smaller of the two principal cities of the Elkhart-Goshen Metropolitan Statistical Area, which in turn is part of the South Bend-Elkhart-Mishawaka Combined Statistical Area. The Goshen Historic district, added in 1983 to the National Registor of Historic Places is bounded by Pike, RR, Cottage, Plymouth, Main, Purl, the Canal, and Second Sts. with the Elkhart County Courthouse at its center.
Welcome to the City of Goshen, Indiana website. This comprehensive resource provides residents of our community and visitors quick access to information about local government, community planning, recreational activities, upcoming events and more. Everything comes together in Goshen...or more precisely, everybody.
The City of Goshen is located in the Ozark Mountains in Northwest Arkansas. With a population of 1,071, Goshen AR is situated seven miles east of Fayetteville where White River and Richland Creek converge at a landmark known locally as “The Twin Bridges,” a favorite spot for white bass fishing in the spring. The City of Goshen provides small-town charm and atmosphere with an eclectic mix of rural and residential.
It is located in the northern part of Indiana near the Michigan border, in a region known as Michiana. Goshen is located 10 miles southeast of Elkhart, 25 miles southeast of South Bend, 120 miles east of Chicago, and 150 miles north of Indianapolis. The population was 31,719 at the 2010 census. The Goshen Historic district, added in 1983 to the National Registor of Historic Places is bounded by Pike, RR, Cottage, Plymouth, Main, Purl, the Canal, and Second Sts. with the Elkhart County Courthouse at its center.
A growing and ethnically diverse community. Today, Goshen is a city of almost 32,000 residents nestled in the center of the northern Indiana county of Elkhart. The community is growing quickly, with the city gaining over 6,000 residents during the 1990s. It is also a “City on the Go”! On the First Friday of every month – throughout the year – businesses, artists, and entertainers throw a party (with great attendance) in downtown Goshen.
Goshen. Goshen The Eastern Lakes. Goshen is located in the northeastern Nile Delta region of Egypt. When Joseph s family came to escape the famine in Canaan and live in Egypt, they settled in an area called Goshen, also referred to as the land of Rameses (Genesis 45:10, 47:11). 
2. The “land of Goshen” may have been named after the city of Goshen located in the district of Debir (Joshua 15:51). Goshen may have been the chief city of the region at one time. The ancient city was either located at Tell el Dhahiriyeh, twelve miles southwest of Hebron or at a location further east. 3. Goshen is primarily recognized as an area in the northeast sector of the Nile Delta.
Downtown Goshen, Inc. is working in partnership with you (our community), the City of Goshen, the Goshen Chamber, Elkhart County Convention and Visitors Bureau, and downtown stakeholders to update the Downtown Goshen Action Agenda. 
The City Of Goshen is nestled between scenic highway 42 and Harmony Lake, about six miles north of Prospect and just a couple of miles southeast of the Ohio River. Our current population is 950 and the city has been an official 5th class city since April of 2003. Control Form PDF Click for weather forecast. The Harmony Lake subdivision of Oldham County became The City Of Goshen in April of 1990, making it the county's seventh city.
Goshen was platted in 1831. It was named after the Land of Goshen. The New England Yankee population that founded towns such as Goshen considered themselves the chosen people and identified with the Israelites of the Old Testament and they thought of North America as their Canaan. The Goshen Historic district, added in 1983 to the National Registor of Historic Places is bounded by Pike, RR, Cottage, Plymouth, Main, Purl, the Canal, and Second Sts. with the Elkhart County Courthouse at its center.