Insulin promotes synthesis of fatty acids in the liver. As discussed above, insulin is stimulatory to synthesis of glycogen in the liver. However, as glycogen accumulates to high levels (roughly 5% of liver mass), further synthesis is strongly suppressed.
Growth hormone is a protein hormone of about 190 amino acids that is synthesized and secreted by cells called somatotrophs in the anterior pituitary.
Metabolic Actions of Insulin and Glucagon Fatty acid uptake and release in fat. Insulin Stimulates synthesis of triglycerides (TG) from free fatty acids (FFA); inhibits release of FFA from TG. Glucagon Stimulates release of FFA from TG. Liver glycogen Insulin Increases synthesis and thereby glucose uptake and storage.
ACTIONS OF GLUCAGON ON FAT 1. Glucagon stimulates lipolysis (the break down of triglycerides into fatty acids) 2. Glucagon inhibites triglyceride synthesis (the storage of fat in adipose tissue). ACTIONS OF GLUCAGON ON PROTEIN 1. Glucagon inhibits protein synthesis in the liver.
Glucagon. (Pancreas) Causes the release of free fatty acids into the blood stream. Fast-acting hormone that stimulates an almost instantaneous release of glucose from the liver and is part of a negative feedback loop in which low blood glucose levels stimulate its release.
Insulin stimulates the liver to store glucose in the form of glycogen. A large fraction of glucose absorbed from the small intestine is immediately taken up by hepatocytes, which convert it into the storage polymer glycogen. Insulin has several effects in liver which stimulate glycogen synthesis.
From a whole body perspective, insulin has a fat-sparing effect. Not only does it drive most cells to preferentially oxidize carbohydrates instead of fatty acids for energy, insulin indirectly stimulates accumulation of fat in adipose tissue.
The backbone of triglycerides is α-glycerol phosphate produced from glucose in fat cells. Storage of triglycerides after a meal is, therefore, dependent upon insulin-stimulated glucose uptake and glycolysis. Normally, fat cells take up fatty acids and glucose simultaneously.