You may also decide to hire additional help for the moving to pack, load and unload the moving truck with your things. Based on the average cost per hour at about $90 for 3 people for 4 hours you would have to pay $320. This is one of the highest costs of all costs along with hiring a truck and paying for its fuel. The average moving cost per hour varies between $85 to $95 depending on the moving date. This is the average cost for hiring two men and a truck. Usually in summer it is more expensive to move as well as at the end of the month. So checking how much the hourly rate for movers is is one of the things to do before moving.
5 Cost-Saving Tips for Moving Time. Decamp mid month and other ways to save without schlepping it yourself. By Laura Cohn, May 2010. This story has been updated since it originally published. 1. You Don't Have to Pay Full Freight. A cross-country move for a three-bedroom home can cost as much as $8,000. Figure $6,000 for the actual move (movers charge about $100 per 100 pounds, and the average room adds up to 1,000 pounds), $1,700 for the packing and $250 for the insurance. 
The cost of a moving company is also typically included in the moving budget. These expenses, however, are just the beginning. To understand what is the average cost of moving, you have to dig a little deeper into your personal situation. The Cost at Point A. Estimates from around the country, show that moving companies charge about $25 an hour, for each mover on the job. To get an accurate idea of average moving costs let us use the following scenario. A family relocates from a 3-bedroom home in Los Angeles to New York City. The average weight of their belongings is around 10,000 lbs
Before you talk to moving companies, find out how much your move will cost. Enter in your information to the left, and we'll give you an estimate of how much truck rental, full service moving, and self service moving will cost. You can also get free multiple moving quotes. This moving cost calculator is intended to provide a range of moving estimates that you might receive from moving companies. It's JUST an estimated range. There are many factors that go into how much a moving company will charge for your move.
The average moving cost for hiring a truck to take you from Northern Virginia to Boston for example would cost you approximately between $650 and $750. If you decide to hire a truck for moving, this would cost you on average between $650 and $750 which is a price that does not include fuel cost. The average moving cost per hour varies between $85 to $95 depending on the moving date. This is the average cost for hiring two men and a truck. Usually in summer it is more expensive to move as well as at the end of the month. So checking how much the hourly rate for movers is is one of the things to do before moving.
The cost will also vary depending on the mileage, how far your move is. But since you're looking for a ballpark figure, I would say about $10,000+ for a move from say a state like Florida to Connecticut--that's with the full service. Another option is to rent a moving truck-you do all the packing, loading and driving. This last option works out to be the cheapest. Other factors that would affect the cost are: whether or not you would need your car to be transported-that would cost extra, per vehicle.
The average cost of truck rental for the purposes of one way moving depends on how long one wants to move. The first day costs around $10, while 4 days costs around $20. Another option is to rent a moving truck-you do all the packing, loading and driving. This last option works out to be the cheapest. Other factors that would affect the cost are: whether or not you would need your car to be transported-that would cost extra, per vehicle.
Average Moving Cost to do it Yourself. Signing for an insurance would be one of the small costs and it is about $100. Also include in your calculation a cost for hotel. Especially if your moving is at a bigger distance or out of state, you will certainly have to spend at least one night out. Depending on the prices in your area the approximate cost for one night at a hotel would be on average about $80. The average moving cost per hour varies between $85 to $95 depending on the moving date. This is the average cost for hiring two men and a truck. Usually in summer it is more expensive to move as well as at the end of the month. So checking how much the hourly rate for movers is is one of the things to do before moving.