By Andrew Zimmerman Jones. Definition: Velocity is a vector measurement of the rate and direction of motion or, in other terms, the rate and direction of the change in the position of an object. The scalar (absolute value) magnitude of the velocity vector is the speed of the motion. In calculus terms, velocity is the first derivative of position with respect to time. The most common way to calculate the constant velocity of an object moving in a straight line is with the formula:
Acceleration, in physics, is the rate of change of velocity of an object. An object's acceleration is the net result of any and all forces acting on the object, as described by Newton's Second Law. 
Velocity is a vector quantity, and average velocity can be defined as the displacement divided by the time. For general cases involving non-constant acceleration, this definition must be applied directly because the straight line average velocity expressions do not work. The units for velocity can be implied from the definition to be meters/second or in general any distance unit over any time unit. You can approach an expression for the instantaneous velocity at any point on the path by taking the limit as the time interval gets smaller and smaller.
From the definition of velocity, you can see that a velocity is changing whenever the speed, the direction, or both is changing. Again, even if an object moves at constant speed around a curved path, it does not move at constant velocity. 
Velocity is a physical vector quantity; both magnitude and direction are needed to define it. The scalar absolute value (magnitude) of velocity is called speed, a quantity that is measured in metres per second (m/s or m⋅s −1) in the SI (metric) system. To have a constant velocity, an object must have a constant speed in a constant direction. Constant direction constrains the object to motion in a straight path (the object's path does not curve).
Velocity as a Vector Quantity. Velocity is a vector quantity that refers to the rate at which an object changes its position.. Imagine a person moving rapidly-one step forward and one step back-always returning to the original starting position. While this might result in a frenzy of activity, it would result in a zero velocity. Speed can be thought of as the rate at which an object covers distance. A fast-moving object has a high speed and covers a relatively large distance in a short amount of time. Contrast this to a slow-moving object that has a low speed; it covers a relatively small amount of distance in the same
Usage We normally think of velocity as the speed at which an object is traveling. But in physics, velocity and speed are not the same. Like speed, velocity refers to the rate at which an object is moving—the distance per unit of time. But velocity in physics also includes the direction in which the object is moving, whereas direction has no bearing on an object's speed
Constant Velocity Definition. We can define the constant velocity from Newton’s law of motion. As the First law of Newton states that when an object is set into motion, it is supposed to continue to be in motion with a constant velocity, unless some external force acts on that.
Velocity. The average speed of an object is defined as the distance traveled divided by the time elapsed. Velocity is a vector quantity, and average velocity can be defined as the displacement divided by the time. For the special case of straight line motion in the x direction, the average velocity takes the form: The units for velocity can be implied from the definition to be meters/second or in general any distance unit over any time unit. You can approach an expression for the instantaneous velocity at any point on the path by taking the limit as the time interval gets smaller and smaller.
The velocity of an object is the rate of change of its position with respect to a frame of reference, and is a function of time. Velocity is equivalent to a specification of its speed and direction of motion, e.g. 7001166666666666666♠60 km/h to the north. Velocity is an important concept in kinematics, the branch of classical mechanics that describes the motion of bodies. To have a constant velocity, an object must have a constant speed in a constant direction. Constant direction constrains the object to motion in a straight path (the object's path does not curve).