The best time to visit Tasmania is the summer, December-February. April and September (Autumn/spring) can be unreliable when it comes to weather (not that the summer is always reliable either). You can easily spend a month in Tasmania if you like bushwalking in the national parks, there are many of them.
When to visit Hobart. Hobart is a city that walks a delicate, charming line between the old and the new, the green and the blue all in one highly enjoyable package. Here’s the best time of year to experience Tasmania’s capital.
Best Time to Visit Tasmania. More than any other place in Australia, Tasmania is blessed with 4 seasons to enjoy. Each season has a unique appeal to those that enjoy a variety of interest. Summer time in Tasmania takes on the festival feel as there are many during the season to enjoy.
Over the comings months, Experience Oz will be running a series answering the frequently-asked question by potential travellers “When is the best time to visit...?” for some of Australia's best and most popular travel destinations. Here, we look at Hobart, Tasmania.
Autumn in Tasmania is at the end of the general tourism season and is a lot cooler than the summer months. As the summer tourism season is coming to a close you can usually find some great deals on accommodation and activities online so it's worth scouting around for a few.
If they are the only options then April; otherwise January is the best time to visit Tasmania, especially Hobart. April has some festivals and the weather is still mild. Tassie has a long winter so September is cool.
Autumn is a great time of year to go on a road trip around Tasmania, the colours in the trees are amazing and it's one of our favourite times of year for photography trips.
WHEN TO GO TO TASMANIA. The best time to visit Tasmania are the summer months between December and March, presenting a warmer and relatively stable climate.
Winter in Tasmania is one of our favourite times of the year, it's cold, can be a bit wet but you get treated to snow and a number of amazing festivals. Winter is also Tasmania's off peak season so you can get some really good accommodation an flight deals making this a great time to visit if you are on a budget.