Topsail Island is a narrow island over 25 miles long encompassing Surf City, Topsail, and North Topsail Beach. Topsail Island is 31 miles north of Wilmington, NC and 15 miles south of Camp Lejeune. Carolina Beach is 14 miles south of Wilmington on Pleasure Island which also includes Kure Beach and Fort Fisher. Early this summer, our 9 day vacation included 3 days at Topsail Island, NC and 6 days at Carolina Beach, NC. While these two beaches are only 45 miles apart, they offer two totally different vacation experiences. In Topsail, we stayed with my parents and brother’s family in an oceanfront beach house.
How far is it from wilmington nc to asheville nc? Traveling on I-26 E it takes at least 5 hours and 48 minutes to go the 359.59 miles between Wilmington, NC and Asheville, NC.
The driving distance between Wilmington, IL and New York, NY is approximately 815 miles. The driving time would be approximately 14 hours 15 minutes if you were to travel non- … stop in good driving conditions. Traveling on I-26 E it takes at least 5 hours and 48 minutes to go the 359.59 miles between Wilmington, NC and Asheville, NC.
The area is comprised of several towns including Topsail Beach, Surf City, North Topsail Beach, Sneads Ferry, Holly Ridge, and Hampstead. Topsail Island offers a multitude of attractions that draw people from any walk of life. Our location can be compared to Wrightsville Beach, Oak Island, Wilmington, Carolina Beach, Kure Beach, Emerald Isle, Morehead City, the Outer Banks, Hatteras, Corolla, and other destinations. 
The driving distance between Wilmington, IL and New York, NY is approximately 815 miles. The driving time would be approximately 14 hours 15 minutes if you were to travel non- … stop in good driving conditions. How many miles from myrtle beachsc to topsail beach nc? 120 miles taking this route: Take U.S. 17 NORTH, from Myrtle Beach, to NC-210 EAST.Follow NC-210 EAST to NC-50 SOUTH.Follow NC-50 SOUTH to Topsail Beach.
Another major airport is Wilmington International Airport (ILM / KILM), which has domestic flights from Wilmington, North Carolina and is 39 miles from North Topsail Beach, NC. Coastal Carolina Regional Airport (EWN / KEWN) has domestic flights from New Bern, North Carolina and is 63 miles from North Topsail Beach, NC. The nearest major airport is Albert J. Ellis Airport (OAJ / KOAJ). This airport has domestic flights from Richlands, North Carolina and is 32 miles from the center of
Wilmington, NC is 256.3 miles from the Outer Banks. The easiest way to travel from Wilmington to the Outer Banks in on highway US 64 West. The trip will take approximately 4 h … ours or so, taking into account the conditions along the way. 2 people found this useful. How many miles from myrtle beachsc to topsail beach nc? 120 miles taking this route: Take U.S. 17 NORTH, from Myrtle Beach, to NC-210 EAST.Follow NC-210 EAST to NC-50 SOUTH.Follow NC-50 SOUTH to Topsail Beach.
Bridging Fun and Relaxation. Topsail Island is a 26-mile-long barrier island approximately 30 minutes north of Wilmington and almost exactly between Jacksonville and Wilmington. The island consists of three towns, North Topsail Beach, Surf City and Topsail Beach. To get to Topsail Island, take U.S. 17 North through Hampstead; turn right (east) on N.C. 210, which merges with N.C. 50; follow 50-210 to the bridge (it opens on the hour); then take N.C. 50 to Topsail Beach. From Interstate 40, take Exit 408; take N.C. 210 east through Hampstead to the island.
Wilmington, NC is 256.3 miles from the Outer Banks. The easiest way to travel from Wilmington to the Outer Banks in on highway US 64 West. The trip will take approximately 4 h … ours or so, taking into account the conditions along the way. 2 people found this useful. Traveling on I-26 E it takes at least 5 hours and 48 minutes to go the 359.59 miles between Wilmington, NC and Asheville, NC.
Topsail Island is located in between Wilmington and Jacksonville, North Carolina. Wilmington and Jacksonville offer the same amenities that other small cities do, and they also offer things to see and do that are unique to the coastal area of Southeastern North Carolina. The last one is located approximately 2 miles north of the Surf City traffic light on N. New River Drive. It offers a playground. The one park in North Topsail Beach, located 10 miles north of the Surf city traffic light offers a playground, basketball court, tennis courts, volleyball, horseshoe pits and picnic areas.