To quickly update all formulas in a worksheet that use a HYPERLINK function with the same arguments, you can place the link target in another cell on the same or another worksheet, and then use an absolute reference to that cell as the link_location in the HYPERLINK formulas. To create a hyperlink to a specific location in a Word file, you use a bookmark to define the location you want to jump to in the file. This example creates a hyperlink to the bookmark QrtlyProfits in the file Annual Report.doc saved at http://example.microsoft.com.
Nothing happens if you click on the hyperlink in the PDF, because Adobe can not interpret weblinks made using the =hyperlink() function. A simple work-around is to mark the whole spread sheet in MS Excel, copy, and in Adobe select Create PDF from clipbook. Then the hyperlink function works. Gary wants to link from an Excel worksheet to a specific page in a PDF file. He can get Excel to link to the PDF but it starts on the first page of the PDF, not the page he wants.
Create a hyperlink to a new file. On a worksheet, click the cell where you want to create a hyperlink. Tip You can also select an object, such as a picture or an element in a chart, that you want to use to represent the hyperlink. Do one of the following: On the Insert tab, in the Links group, click Hyperlink. Right-click the cell or graphic, and then click Hyperlink, or you can press Ctrl+K. Under Link to, click Create New Document. In the Name of new document box, type a name for the new file. If you want to create a hyperlink to a specific location in the file or on the web page, click Bookmark, and then double-click the bookmark that you want to use. The file or web page that you are linking to must have a bookmark. In the Text to display box, type the text that you want to use to represent the hyperlink.
Launch Adobe Acrobat, and then open the PDF file in which you want to insert a link that opens a file in Excel. Step 2. Scroll down to the point in the PDF document where you want to create a link to open the spreadsheet file in Excel. Click “Tools,” then “Typewriter” on the menu bar. Position the cursor where you want to insert text that describes the Excel file or informs viewer to click and open it. 
1. Open the destination spreadsheet, if different from the spreadsheet you are inserting a hyperlink in. 2. Select the cell or cells you want to link to. If the destination is a single cell, you can use the cell reference. If the destination is a range of cells, you may wish to give that range a meaningful name. 1 If the link is to a location in a different spreadsheet, select Existing File or Web Page in the Link to: options pane. 2  Navigate to the spreadsheet you wish to link to, then click Bookmark.. 3  19 Edit step.
Link_location Required. The path and file name to the document to be opened. Link_location can refer to a place in a document — such as a specific cell or named range in an Excel worksheet or workbook, or to a bookmark in a Microsoft Word document. The path can be to a file that is stored on a hard disk drive. To create a hyperlink to a specific location in a Word file, you use a bookmark to define the location you want to jump to in the file. This example creates a hyperlink to the bookmark QrtlyProfits in the file Annual Report.doc saved at http://example.microsoft.com.
Create Excel Hyperlinks. In an Excel worksheet, you can create a hyperlink in any cell. Then, click that hyperlink to go to the specificed location. To create a hyperlink, type the URL, or use the Insert Hyperlink command, or drag and drop, or use the HYPERLINK function -- all three methods are shown below. 
Create a hyperlink to an existing file or web page. On a worksheet, click the cell where you want to create a hyperlink. Tip You can also select an object, such as a picture or an element in a chart, that you want to use to represent the hyperlink. Do one of the following: On the Insert tab, in the Links group, click Hyperlink. Right-click the cell or graphic, and then click Hyperlink, or you can press Ctrl+K. Under Link to, click Create New Document. In the Name of new document box, type a name for the new file. If you want to create a hyperlink to a specific location in the file or on the web page, click Bookmark, and then double-click the bookmark that you want to use. The file or web page that you are linking to must have a bookmark. In the Text to display box, type the text that you want to use to represent the hyperlink.