Blend 8 cups packed basil leaves, 1 cup olive oil, 1/2 cup toasted pine nuts, 2 to 4 garlic cloves and 1/2 teaspoon salt in a food processor until almost smooth. Pesto Cream Tortellini Simmer 1 cup heavy cream with 1/4 cup pesto in a skillet until slightly thickened. Stir in 1/4 cup grated Parmesan. Toss with 12 ounces cooked tortellini and 2 cups steamed broccoli.
The primary ingredient in pesto are the leaves of the basil plant. Basil leaves are the primary ingredient in pesto. Pesto is a versatile sauce that can be used to make soup. Garlic is often used in making pesto. Olive oil is typically used to make pesto. Chopped tomatoes can be added to basil and olive oil in a variation on traditional pesto. Red bell peppers can be used as a base to make a red pesto. 
View More Photos. How to make pesto: Blend 8 cups packed basil leaves, 1 cup olive oil, 1/2 cup toasted pine nuts, 2 to 4 garlic cloves and 1/2 teaspoon salt in a food processor until almost smooth. Stir in 1/2 cup grated Parmesan. Pesto Cream Tortellini Simmer 1 cup heavy cream with 1/4 cup pesto in a skillet until slightly thickened. Stir in 1/4 cup grated Parmesan. Toss with 12 ounces cooked tortellini and 2 cups steamed broccoli.
1 In a food processor or blender, blend the tomatoes, basil and garlic. 2  Add the grated cheese, nuts and 1/4 cup olive oil; blend well. 3  Add the remaining 1/4 cup olive oil, salt and pepper; blend well. 4  Store in the fridge, or separate evenly in icecube containers and freeze. 5  Use in pasta dishes. Directions. 1  In a food processor or blender, blend the tomatoes, basil and garlic. 2  Add the grated cheese, nuts and 1/4 cup olive oil; blend well. 3  Add the remaining 1/4 cup olive oil, salt and pepper; blend well. 4  Store in the fridge, or separate evenly in icecube containers and freeze
Pin it. A jar of pesto, made from basil or other greens, is a delightful summer treat. While we love it tossed with fresh pasta, of course, we've also found that this fresh, garlicky sauce can be a versatile ingredient in all sorts of other dishes! Using pesto instead of tomato sauce adds an entirely different layer of flavor to homemade pizza, tarts, or galettes. Remember that pesto is rich, so use it a bit more sparingly than you would the tomato sauce.
Directions. Combine the basil, garlic, and pine nuts in a food processor and pulse until coarsely chopped. Add 1/2 cup of the oil and process until fully incorporated and smooth. Season with salt and pepper. If using immediately, add all the remaining oil and pulse until smooth
[ˈpesto]) is a sauce originating in Genoa in the Liguria region of northern Italy (pesto alla genovese), and traditionally consists of crushed garlic, basil, and European pine nuts blended with olive oil, Parmigiano-Reggiano (Parmesan cheese), and Fiore Sardo (cheese made from sheep's milk). Sometimes almonds are used instead of pine nuts, and sometimes mint leaves are mixed in with the basil leaves. Pesto alla siciliana, sometimes called pesto rosso (red pesto), is a sauce from Sicily similar to pesto genovese but with the addition of tomato, almonds instead of pine nuts, and much less basil.
Not only is pesto healthy, but it also has endless uses. Pesto is actually very easy to make, but you can buy it in any grocery store too. If you do make it on your own the great news is that pesto freezes exceptionally well, so you can make a big batch and store it for future use. When basil is in season, it is great to make big batches of pesto and freeze it. From there you can use it as you would freshly made pesto. Here is a site that describes in great detail How to Freeze Pesto.
Purchased pesto is one of the best convenience foods on the market. It's made of basil leaves, olive oil, Parmesan cheese, garlic, and pine nuts; that's all. It can be used in so many ways and can dress up a recipe in seconds. You can make your own pesto and freeze it; keep it in the freezer for these last-minute tricks.