Causes. Wheezing results from a narrowing of the airways and typically indicates some difficulty breathing. The narrowing of the airways can be caused by inflammation from asthma, an infection, an allergic reaction, or by a physical obstruction, such as a tumor or a foreign object that's been inhaled. The most common cause of recurrent wheezing is asthma. Possible causes of wheezing include: 1  Allergies. 2  Anaphylaxis (a severe allergic reaction, such as to an insect bite or medication). 3  Asthma. 4  Bronchiectasis, a chronic lung condition in which abnormal widening of bronchial tubes inhibits mucus clearing. 5  Bronchiolitis (especially in young children). 6  Bronchitis
CAUSES — While asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease are the most common causes of wheezing, a variety of other conditions can produce airflow obstruction and thereby expiratory and/or inspiratory wheezing (table 1). 
Other Possible Causes Of Wheezing. Other possible causes of wheezing can include and are not limited to: 1  Bronchiectasis (a chronic lung condition where abnormal widening of bronchial tubes inhibits mucus clearing). 2  Foreign object inhaled (which literally creates blockage and wheezing). 3  Bronchiolitis (especially in young children). 4  Childhood asthma
There are a number of different medical conditions that can cause wheezing. The most common and most obvious condition that causes wheezing is asthma. Asthma is a condition where the bodys immune system reacts abnormally to the presence of some foreign object or substance in the airways. This trigger is referred to as an allergen and would usually be some form of dust, pollen or dander. Apart from asthma, there are a number of conditions that can affect the breathing processes. Bronchitis is a common condition that affects the respiratory system. Bronchitis may be chronic in young children but most people tend to outgrow the problem.
According to the Mayo Clinic, asthma is the most common cause of wheezing. (Mayo Clinic). However, there are many other potential causes for wheezing. Before you can stop your wheeze, your doctor must first determine its cause. 
The causes of wheezing widely vary. They range from chronic, usually manageable conditions such as asthma to very serious conditions that include heart failure. The most common causes of wheezing include: 1  Asthma (a chronic respiratory condition that causes spasms in the bronchial tubes). 2  Bronchitis (inflammation of the lining of the bronchial tubes). 3  Bronchiolitis (most common in young children). 4  Smoking. 5  Emphysema (a condition in which the air sacs of the lungs are damaged). 
Inflammation of the airways, bronchospasm (tightening of the muscles around the bronchial tubes), and hypersensitivity (reactivity to triggers such as allergens, irritants, or infections) all play a role in the development of wheezing. Any conditions or diseases that can constrict the airways can lead to wheezing. Wheezing can be accompanied by other symptoms such as coughing and shortness of breath. Wheezing may also occur in anaphylaxis, a severe and potentially life-threatening allergic reaction. 
Wheezing can result from either of two respiratory conditions: reduced airflow resulting from narrowing of the airways or congestion in the lungs. Causes of wheezing include asthma and infection and inflammation of the lungs (pneumonia) or bronchi (bronchitis). Other common causes include chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), bronchiectasis (destruction and widening of the airways), cystic fibrosis, and tuberculosis. Lung cancer can cause wheezing that is accompanied by a cough that may bring up bloody sputum (hemoptysis).
Wheezing: Causes, symptoms and treatment. Wheezing is a whistling sound that can be made while breathing that may be a symptom of a Congestive heart failure illness or other causes or conditions. If wheezing is accompanied with difficulty breathing, this may be a medical emergency. 