Wells is a surname of English origin, but is occasionally used as a given name too. It derives from occupation, location, and topography. The occupational name (i.e. Wellman) derives from the person responsible for a village's spring.
Wells Name Meaning. English: habitational name from any of several places named with the plural of Old English well(a) ‘spring’, ‘stream’, or a topopgraphical name from this word (in its plural form), for example Wells in Somerset or Wells-next-the-Sea in Norfolk.Translation of French Dupuis or any of its variants.
Nicknames for Wells: | Edit. Share what you know! Meanings and history of the name Wells: | Edit. English surname meaning spring.. Either referring to the person responsible for a village's spring or who lived by the spring. Wells is also the name of a small cathedral city in Somerset, England.
Recorded in several spellings including Well, Wells, Welman, Wellman and Wellsman, this is an English surname. It has a number of possible origins-topographical, locational, or even job descriptive.
Wells next the sea, in Norfolk is recorded in the Domesday Book of 1086 as Guelle. As a topographical surname it denotes residence at or by such a spring or well, as in Roger Attewell of the county of Sussex in the year 1200. This is also a surname that survives in modern times as Attwell.
Wells /wells/ [1 syll.] as a boys' name is of Old English origin, and the meaning of Wells is wells. Place name. The name of a famous cathedral town in the west of England. Mostly used as a given name in the 19th century. Baseball player David Wells.
There is more to Wells family history than the origin of your surname: Start your Genealogy to find your personal Wells family ancestry. It's easy to get started. Just begin your family tree with what you already know.
Last name origins & meanings: 1  English: habitational name from any of several places named with the plural of Old English well(a) ‘spring’, ‘stream’, or a topopgraphical name from this word (in its plural form), for example Wells in Somerset or Wells-next-the-Sea in Norfolk.