Many carbohydrates also supply fiber. Fiber is a type of complex carbohydrate found in foods that come from plants—fruits, vegetables, nuts, seeds, beans, and whole grains. Eating food with fiber can prevent stomach or intestinal problems, such as constipation. It might also help lower cholesterol and blood sugar. There are two types of carbohydrates: simple and complex. 1  Simple carbohydrates are found in fruits, vegetables, and milk products, as well as in sweeteners like sugar, honey, and syrup and foods like candy, soft drinks, and frosting or icing.
Carbohydrate chart is classified as Simple and Complex carbohydrates. This classification is dependent on the chemical structure of the food and how quickly it gets absorbed by the body. Simple carbohydrates have single or double sugars in their chemical structure while complex carbohydrates have three or more sugars. The common monosaccharides include glucose, fructose and galactose. Glucose is the main sugar which is metabolized by the body to produce energy. Galactose is identical to glucose in structure except for one hydroxyl group of carbon atom.
List Of Carbohydrate Sources: Image: Shutterstock. Food contains 3 types of carbohydrates that include sugar, starch and dietary fiber. Starch is a complex carbohydrate which is made up of a long complex chain of simple sugars. The common monosaccharides include glucose, fructose and galactose. Glucose is the main sugar which is metabolized by the body to produce energy. Galactose is identical to glucose in structure except for one hydroxyl group of carbon atom.
Understanding Carbohydrates. How much and what type of carbohydrate foods are important for managing diabetes. The balance between how much insulin is in your body and the carbohydrate you eat makes a difference in your blood glucose levels. Learn more about how much and what foods to include in your meal plan. Featured book: The Complete Guide to Carb Counting, 3rd Edition.
Carbohydrates provide your body with glucose it needs to function properly. Two types of carbohydrates exist: complex carbohydrates and simple carbohydrates. Complex carbohydrates take time to break down into glucose. Foods rich in complex carbohydrates and fiber are called good carbohydrates. Simple carbohydrates include sugars found in foods such as fruits and milk products and sugars added during food processing. Foods rich in white flour and added sugars are called bad carbohydrates.
1. Simple Carbohydrates: Simple carbohydrates have a simple molecular structure and are made up of 1 or 2 sugar molecules. These are carbs laden foods that can be digested easily by the system due to their simple structure. On consumption, these sugars are quickly absorbed by the body in the form of glucose. The common monosaccharides include glucose, fructose and galactose. Glucose is the main sugar which is metabolized by the body to produce energy. Galactose is identical to glucose in structure except for one hydroxyl group of carbon atom.
Starch. Foods high in starch include: 1  Starchy vegetables like peas, corn, lima beans and potatoes. 2  Dried beans, lentils and peas such as pinto beans, kidney beans, black eyed peas and split peas. 3  Grains like oats, barley and rice. ( 4 The majority of grain products in the US are made from wheat flour. You'll also hear terms like naturally occurring sugar, added sugar, low-calorie sweeteners, sugar alcohols, reduced-calorie sweeteners, processed grains, enriched grains, complex carbohydrate, sweets, refined grains and whole grains.
1 Fructose: A simple sugar found in fruits, honey, and root vegetables. 2  Galactose: A simple sugar found in milk products. 3  Glucose: The main source of energy for the body and the sugar produced when you digest carbohydrates. Carbohydrates can be found in varying amounts in fruits, vegetables, grain foods, and many dairy products. Carbohydrates are also found in ingredients in many other foods prepared at home, eaten at a restaurant, or purchased at grocery stores.