Nystagmus is an involuntary condition in which the eyes make rapid, repeated, uncontrolled movements. These eye movements may be in any direction including horizontally, vertically, or rotationally (in a circle). Many people with nystagmus do not experience visual symptoms. 
Nystagmus /nɪˈstaeɡməs/ nɪˈstæɡməs is a condition of (involuntary or, voluntary in rare) cases eye, movement acquired in infancy or later in, life that may result in reduced or limited. vision Nystagmus may be caused by congenital disorders, acquired or central nervous system disorders, toxicity, pharmaceutical drugs, alcohol, or rotational movement. Previously considered untreatable, in recent years several pharmaceutical drugs have been identified for treatment of nystagmus.
Nystagmus is a condition that causes involuntary, rapid movement of one or both eyes. The eye(s) may move from side to side, up and down, or in a circular motion. Nystagmus is often accompanied by vision problems, including blurriness. It is common for individuals with this condition to tilt their heads to compensate for their difficulty seeing.
Physiological nystagmus is a form of involuntary eye movement that is part of the vestibulo-ocular reflex (VOR), characterized by alternating smooth pursuit in one direction and saccadic movement in the other direction. Nystagmus may be caused by congenital disorders, acquired or central nervous system disorders, toxicity, pharmaceutical drugs, alcohol, or rotational movement. Previously considered untreatable, in recent years several pharmaceutical drugs have been identified for treatment of nystagmus.
Nystagmus is a vision condition in which the eyes make repetitive, uncontrolled movements, often resulting in reduced vision. These involuntary eye movements can occur from side to side, up and down, or in a circular pattern. 1 Pendular nystagmus-the speed of movement of the eyes is in same in both directions. 2  Jerk nystagmus-the eyes move slowly in one direction and then quickly jerk back in the other direction.
Nystagmus can be further classified by the type of motion the eyes make: 1  Pendular nystagmus-the speed of movement of the eyes is in same in both directions. 2  Jerk nystagmus-the eyes move slowly in one direction and then quickly jerk back in the other direction. 1
Nystagmus most commonly causes the eyes to look involuntarily from side to side in a rapid, swinging motion rather than staying fixed on an object or person. Some nystagmuses, however, cause the eyes to jerk sideways or up and down. Acquired nystagmus can be caused by a disease (multiple sclerosis, brain tumor, diabetic neuropathy), an accident (head injury), or a neurological problem (side effect of a medication). Hyperventilation, a flashing light in front of one eye, nicotine and even vibrations have been known to cause nystagmus in rare cases.