Benzene, with the delocalization of the electrons indicated by the circle. In chemistry, delocalized electrons are electrons in a molecule, ion or solid metal that are not associated with a single atom or a covalent bond. The term is general and can have slightly different meanings in different fields. In organic chemistry, this refers to resonance in conjugated systems and aromatic compounds. In the simple aromatic ring of benzene the delocalization of six π electrons over the C 6 ring is often graphically indicated by a circle. The fact that the six C-C bonds are equidistant is one indication of this delocalization. In valence bond theory, delocalization in benzene is represented by resonance structures.
Definition of Delocalization. Of electrons; refers to bonding electrons that are distributed among more than two atoms that are bonded together; occurs in species that exhibit resonance. Search the Dictionary.
Re sonance 1 Copyright, Arizona State University Copyright, Arizona State University Resonance Delocalized Electrons 1 Delocalization and Conjugation • Lewis structures assign ALL ELECTRONS to specific bonds or as non-bonding pairs localized on specific atoms. 
By Anne Marie Helmenstine, Ph.D. Delocalized Electron Definition: A delocalized electron is an electron in a atom, ion or molecule not associated with any single atom or a single covalent bond. Delocalized electrons contribute to the conductivity of the atom, ion or molecule. Materials with many delocalized electrons tend to be highly conductive
Verb. 1. delocalize-remove from the proper or usual locality. get rid of, remove-dispose of; Get rid of these old shoes!; The company got rid of all the dead wood. 
delocalize-remove from the proper or usual locality. get rid of, remove-dispose of; Get rid of these old shoes!; The company got rid of all the dead wood. , which present optimal possibilities for the creation of the p-n type junction, and (b) development of donor-acceptor compounds having lower activation energy for the particle of the product rather than of the individual substrates.
By Ashley Crossman. Definition: Resocialization is the process by which existing social roles are radically altered or replaced. Roles such as spouse, parent, widow, prison inmate, and employee, for example, all involve a kind of resocializatio