The Ribs. The ribs are flat, thin bones that, together with the sternum, make up the ribcage. The ribs provide protection for vital organs in the upper body, including the heart and lungs. The ribs also help to protect major vessels in the upper body. There are twelve pairs of ribs, accounting for 24 total rib bones. The ribs give shape and support to the chest. They protect parts of other organs, including the stomach, spleen and kidneys. The ribs also help humans to breathe. The cartilage that connects the true ribs to the sternum allows the chest to expand when you inhale and the lungs fill with air.
The ribs protect the heart and lungs and other vital organs of the body. The spine (backbone) The spine is not really one bone it is lots of little bones that work together to protect the spinal cord. The skeletal system does protect many organs but it is by no extent all of them as the organs of the abdomen are totally exposed apart from some layers of muscle that hold them in place. The lunge and heart are protected by the ribcage. The brain is protected by the skull.
In addition to protecting vital organs, such as the heart and lungs, the ribs serve other important purposes in the human body. The ribs give shape and support to the chest. They protect parts of other organs, including the stomach, spleen and kidneys. The ribs also help humans to breathe. The cartilage that connects the true ribs to the sternum allows the chest to expand when you inhale and the lungs fill with air.
Ribs. The ribs partially enclose and protect the chest cavity, where many vital organs (including the heart and the lungs) are located. The rib cage is collectively made up of long, curved individual bones with joint-connections to the spinal vertebrae. 
The ribs are flat, thin bones that, together with the sternum, make up the ribcage. The ribs provide protection for vital organs in the upper body, including the heart and lungs. The ribs also help to protect major vessels in the upper body. The ribs give shape and support to the chest. They protect parts of other organs, including the stomach, spleen and kidneys. The ribs also help humans to breathe. The cartilage that connects the true ribs to the sternum allows the chest to expand when you inhale and the lungs fill with air.
Sometimes tumors arise on the chest wall, which covers the chest cavity. The chest cavity is a cage of bone and muscle that holds the lungs, heart, and other vital organs. Like all tumors, chest wall tumors may be malignant (cancerous) or benign (non-cancerous), and may originate there or have spread from elsewhere. Only about five percent of chest wall tumors are found to be cancerous. 
Remember that bones protect and support The skull The skull protects the brain The ribs. The ribs protect the heart and lungs and other vital organs of the body. The spine (backbone) The spine is not really one bone it is lots of little bones that work together to protect the spinal cord. The spinal cord runs from the brain to the base of your spine. 
The chest wall is a complex system that provides rigid protection to the vital organs such as the heart, lungs, and liver; stability to arm and shoulder movement; and flexibility to aid in the functional process of respiration. 