The Diaphragm's Role in Breathing. Inhalation and exhalation are the processes by which the body brings in oxygen and expels carbon dioxide. The breathing process is aided by a large dome-shaped muscle under the lungs called the diaphragm. The bronchioles end in tiny balloon-like air sacs called alveoli. Your body has over 300 million alveoli. The alveoli are surrounded by a mesh of tiny blood vessels called capillaries. Here, oxygen from the inhaled air passes through the alveoli walls and into the blood.
When we breathe, we inhale oxygen and exhale carbon  dioxide. This exchange of gases is the respiratory system's means  of getting oxygen to the blood. The respiratory system also helps  to regulate the acid-base level in the blood. The primary function of the respiratory system is to supply the  blood with oxygen in order for the blood to deliver oxygen to all  parts of the body. The respiratory system … does this through  breathing.
The diaphragm forms the base of the thorax. Contractions of the diaphragm and the intercostals muscle change the size of the thorax and, thus, cause air to move in and out of the lungs. The main job of the respiratory system is to get oxygen into the body and get waste gases out of the body. Parts of the Respiratory System The Nose or Nasal Cavity The Pharynx The Trachea The Lungs. Gas Exchange The Mechanism of Breathing Breathing Disorders Animation Links. The human respiratory system consists of the lungs and tubes associated with the lungs. It is located in the thorax or chest.
The function of the human respiratory system is to transport air into the lungs and to facilitate the diffusion of Oxygen into the blood stream. Its also receives waste Carbon Dioxide from the blood and exhales it. 
The primary function of the respiratory system is to supply the  blood with oxygen in order for the blood to deliver oxygen to all  parts of the body. The respiratory system … does this through  breathing. When we breathe, we inhale oxygen and exhale carbon  dioxide. This exchange of gases is the respiratory system's means  of getting oxygen to the blood. The respiratory system also helps  to regulate the acid-base level in the blood. lastly, the  respiratory system allows us to vocalize by the movement of exhaled  air through the larynx.
Diaphragm is the structure that separates the abdominal and thoracic cavities that … is comprised of the heart, ribs, and lungs and is particularly accountable for the respiratory operations. The diaphragm can be separated into 3 sections: the sternal, costal, and lumbar segments. The primary function of the respiratory system is to supply the  blood with oxygen in order for the blood to deliver oxygen to all  parts of the body. The respiratory system … does this through  breathing.
The diaphragm separates the thoracic cavity containing the heart and lungs, from the abdominal cavity and performs an important function in respiration: as the diaphragm contracts, the volume of the thoracic cavity increases and air is drawn into the lungs. 