Diatoms are producers within the food chain. A unique feature of diatom cells is that they are enclosed within a cell wall made of silica (hydrated silicon dioxide) called a frustule. These frustules show a wide diversity in form, but are usually almost bilaterally symmetrical, hence the group name
Dinoflagellates. Dinoflagellates are the other primary form of large phytoplankton with about 2,000 species. Unlike diatoms, dinoflagellates are mobile through the use of a flagella. Also unlike diatoms, they do not have an external skeleton made of silica, however they are protected by cellulose. Marine algae (seaweeds and phytoplankton) are a loose group of some of the simplest organisms that contain chlorophyll (like plants) but include members of both the Empires Prokaryota (Kingdom Bacteria-e.g., cyanobacteria) and Eukaryota (Kingdoms Chromista, Plantae and Protozoa...).
Diatoms are algae with distinctive, transparent cell walls made of silicon dioxide hydrated with a small amount of water (Si02 + H20). Silica is the main component of glass and hydrated silica is very like the mineral opal, making these algae, often called algae in glass houses more like algae in opal houses. 
Phytoplankton are microalgae that form an essential component of the marine food chain. These single-celled plants provide nourishment to many marine species and they also play an important role in regulating the amount of carbon in the atmosphere. There are two main types of the larger phytoplankton species: Diatoms and Dinoflagellates. Smaller phytoplankton categorized as nanoplankton and picoplankton. Marine algae (seaweeds and phytoplankton) are a loose group of some of the simplest organisms that contain chlorophyll (like plants) but include members of both the Empires Prokaryota (Kingdom Bacteria-e.g., cyanobacteria) and Eukaryota (Kingdoms Chromista, Plantae and Protozoa...).
Chlorophyll is not the only photosynthetic pigment found in algae and phytoplankton. There are also carotenoids,and phycobilins (biliproteins). These accessory pigments are responsible for other organism colors, such as yellow, red, blue and brown. Multicellular green algae is also not considered phytoplankton for the same reasons. To be considered a phytoplankton, the algae needs to use chlorophyll A in photosynthesis, be single-celled or colonial (a group of single-cells), and live and die floating in the water, not attached to any substrate 1.
Macro vs Micro. Phytoplankton are microscopic, plant-like organisms that live in the ocean. Unlike macro algae or seaweed that you can easily see lying on the beach, it is difficult to see micro algae or phytoplankton without a microscope. Both types of phytoplankton can be autotrophic and use photosynthesis to harvest the sunlight to produce their own energy, but some dinoflagellates are heterotrophic and rely on eating other organisms for energy; as far as we know, there are no heterotrophic diatoms.
Diatoms are a major group of algae, and are among the most common types of phytoplankton. Diatoms are unicellular, although they can form colonies in the shape of filaments or ribbons (e.g. Fragilaria), fans (e.g. Meridion), zigzags (e.g. Tabellaria), or stars (e.g. Asterionella). A unique feature of diatom cells is that they are enclosed within a cell wall made of silica (hydrated silicon dioxide) called a frustule.
plants are the backbone of this habitat. Plankton are any organisms, plant or animal, that float, as opposed to swim, in the water. The word plankton comes from the Greek word, planktos, meaning wandering or drifting (size has nothing to do with the definition of plankton). As very weak swimmers, these plants and animals flow at the whim of currents and tides. The dinoflagellates, another type of phytoplankton, have an advantage over the diatoms. They have two flagella, or threads, that extend from the body. In most cases, one flagellum circles the body horizontally at the center while the other extends vertically from the lower half of the cell body.
There are many types of phytoplankton, but two main are most common: 1) diatoms and 2) dinoflagellates. Diatoms are single-celled algae that have chloroplasts and can undergo photosynthesis. Dinoflagellates are also single-celled and have two whip-like tails called “flagella.” Although many dinoflagellates also have chloroplasts, not all do. Both types of phytoplankton can be autotrophic and use photosynthesis to harvest the sunlight to produce their own energy, but some dinoflagellates are heterotrophic and rely on eating other organisms for energy; as far as we know, there are no heterotrophic diatoms.