Cause. Shingles is caused by the varicella zoster virus (VZV), the same virus that causes chickenpox. After a person recovers from chickenpox, the virus stays dormant (inactive) in the body. For reasons that are not fully known, the virus can reactivate years later, causing shingles
Shingles is an outbreak of rashes and blisters on the skin, caused by the same virus that causes chickenpox. Once an individual has had chickenpox, the virus stays in the body in an inactive state. Years later, the virus can become active, causing shingles. 
Shingles affects the nerves. Shingles is caused by the varicella-zoster virus — the same virus that causes chickenpox. Anyone who's had chickenpox may develop shingles. After you recover from chickenpox, the virus can enter your nervous system and lie dormant for years. 
Shingles is an infection of a nerve and the area of skin supplied by the nerve. It is caused by a virus called the varicella-zoster virus. It is the same virus that causes chickenpox. Anyone who has had chickenpox in the past may develop shingles. Shingles is sometimes called herpes zoster.
Shingles is caused by the varicella-zoster virus — the same virus that causes chickenpox. After you've had chickenpox, the virus lies inactive in nerve tissue near your spinal cord and brain. Years later, the virus may reactivate as shingles. While it isn't a life-threatening condition, shingles can be very painful. 
1 4,18. 2  Shingles in caused by the same virus that causes chickenpox-varicella-zoster virus. 3  Shingles is a painful infection of the nerve supplying an area of skin and is accompanied by a localised skin rash. Shingles is an infection of a nerve and the surrounding skin surface that is supplied by the nerve, caused by the 
Shingles, also known as zoster or herpes zoster, is a painful skin rash. It is caused by varicella zoster virus (VZV), the same virus that causes chickenpox. Nearly 1 out of every 3 people in the United States will develop shingles in their lifetime. Anyone who has had chickenpox or received chickenpox vaccine in the past may develop shingles.
Shingles-Cause. Shingles is a reactivation of the varicella-zoster virus, a type of herpes virus that causes chickenpox. After you have had chickenpox, the virus lies inactive in your nerve roots and remains inactive until, in some people, it flares up again.
1 Shingles in caused by the same virus that causes chickenpox-varicella-zoster virus. 2  Shingles is a painful infection of the nerve supplying an area of skin and is accompanied by a localised skin rash. 3  Older people and those with a weakened immune system are at greater risk for developing shingles. Shingles is an infection of a nerve and the surrounding skin surface that is supplied by the nerve, caused by the 