The Cerebellum: The cerebellum, or little brain, is similar to the cerebrum in that it has two hemispheres and has a highly folded surface or cortex. This structure is associated with regulation and coordination of movement, posture, and balance.
The cerebrum is the largest and most developmentally advanced part of the human brain. It is responsible for several higher functions, including higher intellectual function, speech, emotion, integration of sensory stimuli of all types, initiation of the final common pathways for movement, and fine control of movement.
Causes. The posterior fossa is a small space in the skull, found near the brainstem and cerebellum. The cerebellum is the part of the brain responsible for movement, balance, and coordination. The brainstem is responsible for controlling vital body functions, such as breathing.
The posterior fossa is a small space in the skull, found near the brainstem and cerebellum. The cerebellum is the part of the brain responsible for movement, balance, and coordination.
The cerebrum is the largest portion of the brain, and contains tools which are responsible for most of the brain's function. It is divided into four sections: the temporal lobe, the occipital lobe, parietal lobe and frontal lobe.
Cerebrum. The cerebrum (supratentorial or front of brain) is composed of the right and left hemispheres. Functions of the cerebrum include: initiation of movement, coordination of movement, temperature, touch, vision, hearing, judgment, reasoning, problem solving, emotions, and learning. Brainstem.
The cerebellum is located behind the brain stem. While the frontal lobe controls movement, the cerebellum “fine-tunes” movement. This area of the brain controls fine motor movement, balance, and the brain’s ability to determine limb position. A stroke in the cerebellum can lead to paralysis or jerky muscle movements.
Many different parts of the brain and their functions are shown in the article. The human brain is ultimately responsible for all thought and movement that the body produces.