Instead, we recommend that you pay a greater attention to the origin and meaning of the name Zaide. Read our baby name articles for useful tips regarding baby names and naming your baby. If you are thinking of giving your baby the beautiful name Zaide, spread the love and share this with your friends. If you’re not sure yet, see our wide selection of both boy names and girl names all over the world to find the ideal name for your new born baby.
Meaning of Zaide. Israeli name. In Israeli, the name Zaide means-elder.The name Zaide originated as an Israeli name. The name Zaide is most often used as a girl name or female name. Israeli Name Meaning-elder. Origin-Israel.
Share what you know! Personal experiences with the name Zaide: | Edit. Share what you know! Nicknames for Zaide: | Edit. Share what you know! Meanings and history of the name Zaide: | Edit. Share what you know! Famous real-life people named Zaide: | Edit. Zaide Silvia Gutierrez, Gutiérrez mexican. actress 
Here are pictures of people with the name Zaide. Help us put a face to the name by uploading your pictures to BabyNames.com!
Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Zaide and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Zaide and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The history and meaning of the name Zaide is fascinating, learn more about it. If you are thinking of giving your baby the beautiful name Zaide, spread the love and share this with your friends. If you’re not sure yet, see our wide selection of both boy names and girl names all over the world to find the ideal name for your new born baby.
ZAIDE Genealogy. This is an open forum to discuss the origin, the meaning and the family stories of the surname ZAIDE. Both your knowledge and the oral tradition of the origin and meaning of this surname will be helpfull. They will be useful to find and to determine the ZAIDE meaning. We invite you to post your knowledge and familiar tradition about your surnames. JUST DO IT at the end of the following posts. You can also try to find relatives posting here information about your relatives you are searching for.
What does Zaid mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Zaid is of Arabic origin. The meaning of Zaid is prosperous, increasing. It is also of African origin, where its meaning is grow, increase. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 956 in baby name popularity for boys with 219 occurrences. Less than 5 girls were given the name. View the Zaid Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Zaid has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Zaid to other names.
Zaide Name Meaning. The meaning of Zaide is “Elder”. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. If you are thinking of giving your baby the beautiful name Zaide, spread the love and share this with your friends. If you’re not sure yet, see our wide selection of both boy names and girl names all over the world to find the ideal name for your new born baby.
What does Zaide mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Zaide is of Hebrew origin. The meaning of Zaide is elder (respected older person who has acquired wisdom). It is also of Yiddish origin, where its meaning is elder (respected older person who has acquire wisdom), grandfather. Zaide is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 5 letters and 1 syllable and is pronounced Zaide. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 16341 in baby name popularity for girls with 6 occurrences.