afferent arteriole. enters the glomerulus at the vascular pole and divides into capillaries which subsequently merge to form efferent arterioles. efferent arteriole. derived from the glomerular capillaries in the renal glomeruli, these arterioles exit from the glomerulus at its vascular pole. 
The efferent arterioles are blood vessels that are part of the urinary tract of organisms. The efferent arterioles form from a convergence of the capillaries of the glomerulus. They play an important role in maintaining the glomerular filtration rate despite fluctuations in blood pressure. The efferent arterioles of the juxtamedullary glomeruli are much different. They do break up, but they form bundles of vessels (arteriolae recti) that cross the outer zone of the medulla to perfuse the inner zone.
Filtration occurs because of the high pressure in the glomerular capillaries (P GC). The glomerular capillaries are unique in that they lie between two arterioles, the afferent arteriole and the efferent arteriole. Because of the added resistance of the efferent arteriole, P GC is higher than pressure in a typical capillary. The figure illustrates the forces that determine the filtration rate. The pressure in the glomerular capillaries, PGC, favors filtration. Opposing filtration is the osmotic pressure due to the blood proteins (πGC) and the hydrostatic pressure in Bowman's space (PBS).
Remember that the afferent arteriole brings blood to the glomerulus and the efferent arteriole takes blood away from the glomerulus. The efferent arterioles either 1) carry blood to capillaries in the medulla (Vasa recta) or 2) form anastomotic capillaries in the cortex (peritubular plexus).
Together with the skin and the respiratory system, the kidneys are the body's primary excretory organs. The kidney is a highly specialized organ that maintains the internal environment of the body by selectively excreting or retaining various substances according to specific body needs. 
For instance, if the mean arterial pressure increases, renal autoregulation causes the afferent arteriole to constrict, preventing the pressure increase from being transmitted to the glomerular capillaries, and keeping the GFR from increasing. The figure illustrates the forces that determine the filtration rate. The pressure in the glomerular capillaries, PGC, favors filtration. Opposing filtration is the osmotic pressure due to the blood proteins (πGC) and the hydrostatic pressure in Bowman's space (PBS).
arteriole. afferent glomerular arteriole a branch of an interlobular artery that goes to a renal glomerulus. efferent glomerular arteriole one arising from a renal glomerulus, breaking up into capillaries to supply renal tubules. postglomerular arteriole efferent glomerular a. precapillary arteriole arterial capillary. preglomerular arteriole afferent glomerular a. straight arterioles of kidney branches of the arcuate arteries of the kidney arising from the efferent glomerular arterioles and passing down to the renal pyramids
The afferent arterioles are a group of blood vessels that supply the nephrons in many excretory systems. They play an important role in the regulation of blood pressure as a part of the tubuloglomerular feedback mechanism. The afferent arterioles branch from the renal artery, which supplies blood to the kidneys. The afferent arterioles later diverge into the capillaries of the glomerulus. 
Blood drains from the glomerulus by the efferent arteriole. The efferent arterioles than form peritubular capillaries that wrap around the tubules of the nephrons. Blood drains from the kidneys by way of veins that reverse the direction of blood flow into the kidneys in the arteries. 