1 Bicalutamide therapy is for men with advanced prostate cancer at stage D2, when there is evidence of metastases (cancer spread) to other areas of the body. (For more detail, see How this drug works section below). What this drug is used for: 1  Bicalutamide therapy is for men with advanced prostate cancer at stage D2, when there is evidence of metastases (cancer spread) to other areas of the body.
USES: Bicalutamide is used to treat prostate cancer that has spread to other areas of the body. It is used in combination with hormone treatment. This medication works by blocking the action of male hormones in the prostate, slowing growth of the tumors.This medication should not be used in women or children. 
DRUG CLASS AND MECHANISM: Bicalutamide is an oral medication that is used for treating cancer of the prostate. It belongs to a class of drugs called anti-androgens which includes flutamide (Eulexin) and nilutamide (Nilandron). 
Uses. Bicalutamide is used to treat prostate cancer that has spread to other areas of the body. It is used in combination with hormone treatment. This medication works by blocking the action of male hormones in the prostate, slowing growth of the tumors. This medication should not be used in women or children.
Bicalutamide is an anti-androgen. It works in the body by preventing the actions of androgens (male hormones). Bicalutamide is used together with another hormone to treat prostate cancer. Bicalutamide may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide. Although bicalutamide is not for use by women, this medicine can cause birth defects if a woman is exposed to it during pregnancy. Bicalutamide is given as part of a combination prostate cancer treatment with another medicine called a luteinizing (LOO-tee-in-ize-ing) hormone-releasing hormone, or LHRH. These medicines prevent the testicles from producing testosterone.
Bicalutamide is indicated for the treatment of stage D2 metastatic prostate cancer in combination with castration (pharmacological with a GnRH analogue or surgical with an orchiectomy) or as a monotherapy. Bicalutamide is described as the most potent of the non-steroidal antiandrogens as well as the most well-tolerated (not including/considering enzalutamide). It is for these reasons, as well as a better safety profile, that bicalutamide has largely replaced flutamide and nilutamide in the treatment of prostate cancer.
Bicalutamide (INN, USAN, BAN) (brand names Casodex, Cosudex, Calutide, Kalumid) is a synthetic, non-steroidal, pure antiandrogen used in the treatment of prostate cancer, hirsutism, and other androgen-dependent conditions. Bicalutamide is described as the most potent of the non-steroidal antiandrogens as well as the most well-tolerated (not including/considering enzalutamide). It is for these reasons, as well as a better safety profile, that bicalutamide has largely replaced flutamide and nilutamide in the treatment of prostate cancer.
Bicalutamide is used in dosages of 50 mg/day in combination with a GnRH analogue in the treatment of prostate cancer and at a dosage of 150 mg/day as a monotherapy for prostate cancer. Bicalutamide has been found to be ineffective as a monotherapy in prostate cancer at a dosage of 50 mg/day. Bicalutamide is described as the most potent of the non-steroidal antiandrogens as well as the most well-tolerated (not including/considering enzalutamide). It is for these reasons, as well as a better safety profile, that bicalutamide has largely replaced flutamide and nilutamide in the treatment of
Bicalutamide is useful in combination with the aromatase inhibitor anastrozole as a puberty blocker in the treatment of precocious puberty in boys. This is a cost-effective alternative to GnRH analogues for the treatment of this condition. Bicalutamide is described as the most potent of the non-steroidal antiandrogens as well as the most well-tolerated (not including/considering enzalutamide). It is for these reasons, as well as a better safety profile, that bicalutamide has largely replaced flutamide and nilutamide in the treatment of prostate cancer.