1) signifies, A Light that Shines in the Darkness . 2)domesticated falcon has been a favorite companion of the hunter. Like the lion, it was believed never to close its eyes in sleep. Therefore, in some areas, the falcon took on the responsibilities of a watchdog. 3) wild falcons represents the unconverted Gentile, as well as sinful thoughts and deeds
In early Egyptian hieroglyphs the falcon represented the word for god. It was associated with sky deities, who may have had falcons' heads. In early dynasties, the king's ascension was known as the Flight of the Falcon. A human-headed falcon was a symbol of the human soul. 2)domesticated falcon has been a favorite companion of the hunter. Like the lion, it was believed never to close its eyes in sleep. Therefore, in some areas, the falcon took on the responsibilities of a watchdog.
In Western tradition, the Falcon represents the huntsman and is associated with the Germanic sky-gods Wodan as well as Frigg and the trickster Loki. In European culture the Falcon is considered a warlike symbol. At its core, the Falcon represents visionary power, wisdom, and guardianship. This powerful bird awakens visionary power, and leads you to your life purpose. The Falcon carries with it a message of transition and change – perhaps in your vocation, work, career, etc. Throughout history, culture and myth, Falcons symbolize superiority, spirit, light, freedom and aspiration. The Falcon is a solar emblem for success, victory and rising above a situation. Further evidence of its solar influence, the Falcon was symbolic of the rising sun in Egypt.
383 pages on this wiki. The falcon is a symbol of liberty, freedom, and victory. Therefore, it also symbolizes hope to all those who are in bondage whether moral, emotional, or spiritual. In Christianity, wild falcons represents the unconverted Gentile, as well as sinful thoughts and deeds. A human-headed falcon was a symbol of the human soul. The falcon helped cure the soul and escorted the soul back to the world of souls. The sport of hunting with falcons was associated with nobility in Europe, Japan, and China, where falcons symbolized keen vision, boldness, and swiftness. 1  Hawk.
In European culture the Falcon is considered a warlike symbol. At its core, the Falcon animal totem represents visionary power, wisdom, and guardianship. This powerful bird awakens visionary power, and leads you to your life purpose. The Falcon carries with it a message of transition and change-perhaps in your vocation, work, career, etc. 
Falcon Symbol Attribution: Herb Roe. Native American Symbols, like the Falcon symbol, can vary in meaning from one tribe to another and across the culture groups of North America. The Falcon symbol was used by the ancient Native Americans of the Mississippian culture. Discover facts and information about the meanings of secret and mysterious symbols used by Native American Indians in our List of Symbols including the Falcon symbol. The Falcon Symbol-Mississippian culture The most ancient Native American Indian symbols, like the Falcon symbol, came from the Mississippian culture which was established in 1000AD and continued to 1550AD onward.
The Meaning of the Falcon Symbol The Falcon symbol featured strongly in the Mississippian culture, along with the other Bird Man symbols. The Falcon was believed to be a supernatural deity who resided in the Upperworld with the spirits of the Sun, Moon and Stars. The Falcon Symbol-Mississippian culture The most ancient Native American Indian symbols, like the Falcon symbol, came from the Mississippian culture which was established in 1000AD and continued to 1550AD onward.
The Maltese Falcon originated as a symbol of loyalty, and loyalty is a principal theme throughout Hammett's novel. Wilmer Cook is loyal to Gutman. Floyd Thursby was loyal to Brigid O'Shaughnessy. In Chapter 19, Gutman tells Spade that he (Thursby) was quite determinedly loyal to Miss O'Shaughnessy). That's an interesting perspective. The falcon in the story is a figurine of course, but it does symbolize something to the characters.