Save. Papel picado is the ancient Mexican tradition of cutting scenes into paper to use as decoration at various holidays. The advent of tissue paper made this art especially popular. The colors and scenes used depend on the holiday for which they are being made. Sketch a drawing of what you want your papel picado design to look like onto the piece of computer paper so that you will have a pattern to follow. Begin to cut out your design. Use scissors for cutting out large holes and other less intricate designs.
1 Papel picado means pierced paper in Spanish. 2  In Mexico, people create Papel Picado banners to celebrate holidays and different occasions like the changing of the seasons. 3  First, decide what colors of tissue paper you want to include in your banner. 1 In Mexico, people create Papel Picado banners to celebrate holidays and different occasions like the changing of the seasons. 2  First, decide what colors of tissue paper you want to include in your banner. 3  In Mexico, different colors are used for different holidays
Subscribe Now: http://www.youtube.com/subscription_c... Watch More: http://www.youtube.com/ehow. Mexican papel picado is a lot easier to make than you're probably assuming. Make Mexican papel picado with help from the founder and Chief Executive Maniac of Marketing Maniacs, Inc. in this free video clip. 
Papel Cortado. Thanks to Melissa for suggesting this project! Papel picado (punched paper) is a Mexican popular art form with roots in the country's ancient cultures. The Aztecs used the bark of wild mulberry and fig trees to make a rough paper called amatl. Amatl was used to make flags and banners to decorate temples, streets and homes
Mexican Paper Decorations. Papel picado is the Mexican folk art of paper-cutting. The colorful, lattice-like designs, traditionally cut into tissue paper, are made to celebrate religious festivals and national holidays. Mexican craftsmen use punches, knives, hammers, chisels, and scissors to cut holes in the tissue. 
How to get you own papel picado is easy. Follow these simple step by step photo instructions below. Watch the video tutorial above or on on our Happythought youtube channel (more videos and papel picados ideas at the bottom of this post). You will need: • Crepe paper in at least 3 colors. 
Cancel. Mexican papel picado is a lot easier to make than you're probably assuming. Make Mexican papel picado with help from the founder and Chief Executive Maniac of Marketing Maniacs, Inc. in this free video clip. Video Transcript. Hi, I'm Darlene Tenes from CasaQ, and today we're going to learn how to make paper papel picado. So now we're ready to get started. We just need a couple materials to get going which is the paper tissue, scissors, twine or string and glue.