If you feel burning or stabbing pain when you urinate, you might have a bladder infection. Bacteria growing in the bladder or urethra cause bladder infections. The urethra is the tube that takes urine out of your body. Anyone can get a bladder infection, but they’re more common in women than men or children. Bladder infections are also called urinary tract infections (UTIs). The best remedies for bladder infections include a combination of medical treatment and lifestyle adjustments.
The urinary tract is made up of the bladder, urethra and the two ureters and kidneys. These germs usually enter the urinary tract through the urethra, the tube that carries urine out of the body, and travel up to the bladder.
Bladder infections are a type of infection of the urinary tract. Typically, bacteria cause infections in the urinary tract. You develop a bladder infection when bacteria or other minute organisms latch onto the walls of the urethra and begin to grow, flourish and reproduce.
If you have a bladder infection, then you need to take action quickly before the infection spreads to your kidneys, where it can cause permanent damage. Follow these steps to treat a bladder infection.
A urine test usually shows whether you have a bladder infection. If you are having persistent or frequent infections, if there is persistent blood in your urine, or if an anatomical defect is suspected as the cause of the problem, your doctor may want you to undergo testing, including a cystoscopy.
If you are prone to UTIs, your doctor may want to take pictures of your urinary tract with an x-ray or ultrasound. These pictures can show swelling, stones, or blockage. Your doctor also may want to look inside your bladder using a cystoscope (SISS-tuh-skohp).
Ask your doctor about antibiotics. Doctors prescribe a variety of antibiotics for bladder infections including amoxicillin, ampicillin and ciprofloxacin. 1  Your doctor may place you on a short regimen of antibiotics or on a longer regimen depending on the severity of the infection.
Anyone can get a urinary tract infection, but it is most common in women, especially if they are pregnant. In pregnant women, hormones cause changes in the urinary tract, which predispose women to infections. In addition, a growing uterus presses on the bladder, preventing the complete emptying of urine.