Intestinal bacterial infections are most often caused by one of several possible bacteria. This type of illness is usually called gastrointestinal infection. Gastrointestinal infection is quite common and isn't usually serious. Common symptoms include diarrhea, abdominal cramping, bloating, gas and sometimes vomiting.
Common symptoms of bacterial infection in stomach are: 1  Pain in stomach with cramps in the stomach. 2  Diarrhea. 3  Gastritis, with retrosternal burning and waterbrash. 4  Dark or black color of stool. 5  Cramps in abdomen. 6  Stomach ulcer. 7  Aggravation of pain in stomach after intake of food. 8  Vomiting and nausea.
Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) is a type of bacteria that causes infection in the stomach. It is found in about two-thirds of the world's population. It may be spread by unclean food and water, but researchers aren't sure.
Long-term infection of the stomach with Helicobacter pylori (H pylori) can cause ulcers. It can also inflame and damage the inner layer of the stomach. Some of these changes could lead to cancer over time, especially cancer in the lower part
Salmonellosis symptoms begin within 8 to 48 hours of consuming the bacteria. The most common symptoms include abdominal pain, chills, fever, diarrhea, muscle pain, nausea and vomiting. As with any intestinal infection, salmonella can lead to dehydration if fluids are not replaced after vomiting and bouts of diarrhea.
Infection of the stomach or intestine is called gastroenteritis. Although gastrointestinal infection is most often caused by viruses, such infections can also be caused due to bacteria. Such infections are caused when bacteria infects the lining of the stomach or the intestine.
There are some stomach bacteria that are harmful, and can lead to more advanced illnesses. One of the more common bacteria is the Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori). These are spiral-shaped, and appear in 20 percent of people under 40 years old. This number increases to 50 percent for people over the age of 60.
Sometimes, some bacteria like Staphylococcus aureus produces toxins, which causes symptoms like diarrhea, nausea and vomiting. Most stomach infections are caused due to contaminated water, food, or food which has not been cooked well. Causes. Gastroenteritis is one of the most common cause of stomach infection.