In 2010, Rep. McCullough also proposed a bill that was ultimately rejected that would have in part required pre-divorce counseling for troubled marriages and created covenant marriages with stricter standards for divorce, similar to those existing in Louisiana, Arkansas and Alabama**. Additionally, the Wyoming bill requires couples seeking a divorce to attend three hours of counseling or wait a full year to file. Notably, the bill requires that couples pay for the counseling themselves. Both politicians have stated that the purpose of the proposed bills is to lower divorce rates.
The Goals of Marriage Counseling: Some couples get what they need in as little as 4-6 sessions. These are often situations in which couples need help with improving communication, or solving day to day problems around responsibilities, parenting, finances, or common goals. Without having a plan, and specific goals in mind, marriage counseling sessions can turn into opportunities to hash through recent problems as opposed to focusing on solutions. And couples can do that for a long, long time without making real changes.
Share on Google Plus. Couples having relationship problems often see marriage counselors to help them resolve their issues and build happier, more successful relationships. With almost half of all U.S. marriages ending in divorce, many couples face problems serious enough to seek marriage counseling. 
Some experts say that it would be more effective to require pre-divorce counseling instead of pre-marital counseling, because counseling is usually not needed at the beginning of a marriage when two people are in love. Under the new amendment any married couple desiring a divorce in Singapore that have kids under the age of 21 will be required to attend mandatory counseling and mediation sessions. The counseling and mediation is designed create agreement on what is in the best interests of dependent children in a divorce setting.
show more My wife and I have been separated for 3 months and about a couple of weeks ago we started going to marriage counseling. So far the counseling has been useful, but how much longer should we go until we decide to work things with our marriage or to go on with the divorce. We have been together for 8yrs and married... 
Counseling offers you a chance (often the best chance) for you and your spouse to save your marriage. And even if you end up getting a divorce, counseling almost always helps couples get through it with a higher level of trust and with more money in their pocket. When you’re marriage is troubled, counseling makes sense. You could check out a therapist in Minnesota who offers counseling by telephone. He offers the first session free, and after that he charges $45 for a 45 minute session. His site is called Marriage Builders, and it advertises that it has more than 100 pages of information about what you can do
It is very common for people on their way to divorce to try a round or two of marriage counseling. Many people don't think that they have tried enough to save the marriage unless they have attempted marriage counseling without success ion saving the marriage. One of the initial problems in this scenario is the two years of individual therapy for a marital relationship problem. The therapist should have disclosed that individual therapy for a marital problem would only increase the likelihood of divorce-it should have been part of the informed consent.
And in Wyoming, incoming House Speaker Ed Buchanan (R) introduced a bill requiring any couple who wanted to marry to attend three hours of premarital counseling. If couples fail to get the required counseling, they must wait a full year to get a marriage license. Additionally, the Wyoming bill requires couples seeking a divorce to attend three hours of counseling or wait a full year to file. Notably, the bill requires that couples pay for the counseling themselves. Both politicians have stated that the purpose of the proposed bills is to lower divorce rates.
Children and Divorce. Many families in the United States are touched by divorce. The current divorce rate is calculated to be between 40 and 60% for those recently married and up to 10% higher for remarriages. A majority of divorces occur in families with children under the age of 18. Divorce propels adults and children into numerous adjustments and challenges. 
Yes. Marriage counseling in PA family law cases can be required by the Pennsylvania family court judge. The judge may require up to three marriage counseling sessions with a qualified marriage counselor within a three to four month period in the following cases: 1  the Pennsylvania fault-based ground of indignities is used as grounds for the divorce and marriage counseling is requested by either spouse;