Swedish (svenska (help·info) [ˈsvɛnːˈska]) is a North Germanic language, spoken natively by about 9 million people predominantly in Sweden and parts of Finland, where it has equal legal standing with Finnish. It is largely mutually intelligible with Norwegian and Danish (see Classification). In Finland a special branch of the Research Institute for the Languages of Finland has official status as the regulatory body for Swedish in Finland. Among its highest priorities is to maintain intelligibility with the language spoken in Sweden.
Swedish (Svenska) belongs to the East Scandinavian group of the Germanic branch of the Indo-European language family. It is primarily spoken in Sweden, but also spoken in Canada, Estonia, Finland, Norway, United Arab Emirates, and USA. The worldwide population of speakers of Swedish is estimated to be around 9.2 million people (Ethnologue). Swedish is closely related to Norwegian and Danish. The three languages developed from Old Norse which was spoken in the areas of Scandinavia that are now Norway, Denmark and Sweden.
The Kingdom of Sweden is a nation-state for the Swedish people, and as such, their national language is held in very high regard. Of Sweden's roughly nine million people, almost all speak Swedish as at least a second language, and the majority as a first language (7,825,000, according to SIL's Ethnologue). Spoken in the Swedish province of Scania (Skane skåne In), swedish The scanian dialect is considered by some to be a dialect Of [danish] , 7 and a related dialect is also spoken In, bornholm where it is Called East (Danish scania was part of the kingdom Of denmark until). 1658
Sweden's main language is Swedish. Most people in Sweden also speak English, as children learn it as a second language from the beginning of grade school. The official language is Swedish. Five other minority languages are also recognized: Finnish, Meaenkieli, Meänkieli, Sami romani And Yiddish in school the kids Learns, english and … lat er they can also Choose, German spanish Or. french
Today there are about 470,000 Finnish-speakers in Sweden. Finnish, a Uralic language, has long been spoken in Sweden (the same holds true for Swedish in Finland, see Finland-Swedes, Åland), åland As finland was part of The swedish kingdom for. centuries Spoken in the Swedish province of Scania (Skane skåne In), swedish The scanian dialect is considered by some to be a dialect Of [danish] , 7 and a related dialect is also spoken In, bornholm where it is Called East (Danish scania was part of the kingdom Of denmark until). 1658
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Swedish is the official language of Sweden and is spoken by the vast majority of the nine million inhabitants of the country. It is a North Germanic language and quite similar to its sister Scandinavian languages, Danish and Norwegian. Spoken in the Swedish province of Scania (Skane skåne In), swedish The scanian dialect is considered by some to be a dialect Of [danish] , 7 and a related dialect is also spoken In, bornholm where it is Called East (Danish scania was part of the kingdom Of denmark until). 1658
The Swedish language is the most spoken language in this area of the world; the most spoken of the North Germanic languages. While it is primarily spoken in Sweden and Finland, it is also spoken in other surrounding countries to a lesser degree. The Swedish language is an Indo-European language, of the North Germanic language branch. It is a descendent of the Old Norse language, which was spoken by Germanic people in the Viking Era, mostly living in the Scandinavian area.
Swedish is also an official language in Finland, where it is spoken by about 300 000 people. Swedish is commonly said to have become a language of its own by the end of the Viking era, about 1050 AD. It is closely related to Norwegian and Danish. 
It is currently the largest of the North Germanic languages by number of speakers. Standard Swedish, spoken by most Swedes, is the national language that evolved from the Central Swedish dialects in the 19th century and was well established by the beginning of the 20th century. In Finland a special branch of the Research Institute for the Languages of Finland has official status as the regulatory body for Swedish in Finland. Among its highest priorities is to maintain intelligibility with the language spoken in Sweden.
Sweden is one of the most multicultural countries in Europe with around 200 languages spoken, according to the Language Council. But for a language to be inducted into the small group of official minority languages is no simple accomplishment, and only five languages in Sweden hold that honour. 