The Middle Ear is the portion of the ear internal to the eardrum, and external to the oval window of the inner ear. Also mammalian middle ear contains three ossicles, which transfers the vibrations of the eardrum into waves in the fluid and membranes of the inner ear. The hollow space of the middle ear has also been called the tympanic cavity, or cavum tympani. Main article: Ossicles. The middle ear contains three tiny bones known as the ossicles: malleus, incus, and stapes. The ossicles were given their Latin names for their distinctive shapes; they are also referred to as the hammer, anvil, and stirrup, respectively.
auditory ossicles. the malleus, incus and stapes, the three small bones of the tympanic cavity of the ear. They form a connecting bony system from the tympanic membrane to the oval window that is the opening to the internal ear. auditory tube. the narrow channel connecting the nasopharynx to the middle ear. See also pharyngotympanic tube. Etymology: L, audire + ossiculum, little bone. the malleus, the incus, and the stapes, three small bones in the middle ear that articulate with each other. As the tympanic membrane vibrates, it transmits sound waves through the ossicles to the cochlea.
The ossicles (also called auditory ossicles) are three bones in either middle ear that are among the smallest bones in the human body. They serve to transmit sounds from the air to the fluid-filled labyrinth (cochlea). The absence of the auditory ossicles would constitute a moderate-to-severe hearing loss. The term ossicle literally means tiny bone and, though the term may refer to any small bone throughout the body, it typically refers to the malleus, incus, and stapes (hammer, anvil, and stirrup) of the middle ear.
The Ossicles. The three tiniest bones in the body form the coupling between the vibration of the eardrum and the forces exerted on the oval window of the inner ear. Formally named the malleus, incus, and stapes, they are commonly referred to in English as the hammer, anvil, and stirrup. 
The bones of the ear, also known as the auditory ossicles, are the three smallest bones in the human body. These bones play an important role in the sense of hearing by transmitting sounds to the inner ear. Anatomy The three auditory ossicles – the malleus, incus, and stapes – are tiny bones found in the middle ear. Each bone is named in Latin for its shape: 1  Malleus means hammer or mallet. 2  Incus means anvil. 3  Stapes means stirrup. ...
ear ossicles Three small bones – the incus (anvil), malleus (hammer), and stapes (stirrup) – that lie in the mammalian middle ear, forming a bridge between the tympanum (eardrum) and the oval window. 
MIDDLE EAR OSSICLES. The three bones of the middle ear, malleus (m), incus (i) and stapes (s) are shown in panel A as they articulate with each other. In panel B, the ossicles are shown in isolation so that their parts can be viewed. The malleus is the lateral most ossicle. 
The stapes (aka stirrup) is the smallest of the three auditory  ossicles of the middle ear. These little bones amplify and  transmit sound vibrations from the tympanic mem … brane (eardrum) to  the oval window. The stapes is in direct contact with the oval  window. F J Eagle. Making the world better, one answer at a time. The three auditory ossicles are located in the middle ear. Their function is to transmit and amplify the sound vibrations from the tympanic membrane (eardrum) to the oval window. The ears change the high amplitude, low pressure waves of sound in air. into the low amplitude, high pressure waves of sound in water