Brush the cooking grates clean. Place the ribs on the grill over direct medium heat and cook for 1 hour, with the lid closed, occasionally turning the packets over for even cooking, making sure not to pierce the foil. Remove the packets from the grill and let rest for about 10 minutes. Soak the wood chips in water for at least 30 minutes. Prepare the grill for direct cooking over medium heat (350° to 450°F). In a small bowl mix the rub ingredients. Remove the membrane from the back of each rack of ribs. Cut each rack crosswise in the middle to create two smaller racks.
1 1 Heat a gas or charcoal grill to medium (350°F to 450°F). 2  2 Remove the ribs from the foil, place them meaty-side up on the grill, and brush them with some of the sauce. 3  Cover the grill and cook for 5 minutes. 4  Flip and brush the ribs and cook another 5 minutes. To grill the ribs: 1  1 Heat a gas or charcoal grill to medium (350°F to 450°F). 2  2 Remove the ribs from the foil, place them meaty-side up on the grill, and brush them with some of the sauce.
1 Grill your ribs for 3 hours bone-side down. 2  Wrap them in foil and grill, bone-side up, for 30 to 60 minutes. 3  Same as with baby backs, you can an extra special touch here by pouring a cup of apple cider or juice into the foil packet. 4  Unwrap them and grill for 30 more minutes bone-side down. Before we get into how long you should grill your ribs there's one important thing to keep in mind: while dry spice rubs should be applied before you start to cook, sauces should not be applied until the last 20 minutes of cooking at the earliest.
Cook 'Em. 1  Place spare/back ribs on the grill, opposite side of the fire, bone side down, to begin cooking. 2  Avoid the ribs touching. 3  When cooking ribs on a charcoal grill never let the meat overlap the fire. 4  You cannot undo crispy or burnt barbecue ribs! 5  Close the lid and... 6  Resist peeking! 7  You're loosing precious heat. 1 To barbecue ribs on a charcoal grill, you control the temperature with the bottom/side vents on your grill. 2  Adjust the top vent to half open, and leave it alone. 3  Put a big ol' handful of hardwood chips or chunks (pre-soaked in water for about an hour) on the coals. 4  Now, close the grill and let the smoke get started
1 Grill the ribs for 2 hours, bone-side down. 2  Wrap them in foil and grill, bone-side up, for 30 minutes. 3  Don't be afraid to add an extra special touch here by pouring a cup of apple cider or juice into the foil packet. 4  Unwrap them and grill for 30 more minutes bone-side down. Before we get into how long you should grill your ribs there's one important thing to keep in mind: while dry spice rubs should be applied before you start to cook, sauces should not be applied until the last 20 minutes of cooking at the earliest.
4. Warm your grill to cook your baby back ribs. 1  Turn on your gas grill. 2  Light half the burners, and leave the other half unlit. 3  Set the wood chips pouch between the flame and grill grate. 4  Light your charcoal grill. 5  After ashes have begun to form on your charcoal, move the briquettes to one side of your grill.
Build charcoal fire or preheat gas grill. Remove silver skin from back of ribs, if desired. Set up the grill for indirect heat and if using wood chips, place soaked chips directly on charcoal, or in smoking box of gas grill. Rub the cut lemons over front and back of ribs squeezing to release as much juice as possible. 
1 Place spare/back ribs on the grill, opposite side of the fire, bone side down, to begin cooking. 2  Avoid the ribs touching. 3  When cooking ribs on a charcoal grill never let the meat overlap the fire. 4  You cannot undo crispy or burnt barbecue ribs! 5  Close the lid and... 6  Resist peeking! 7  You're loosing precious heat. 1 To barbecue ribs on a charcoal grill, you control the temperature with the bottom/side vents on your grill. 2  Adjust the top vent to half open, and leave it alone. 3  Put a big ol' handful of hardwood chips or chunks (pre-soaked in water for about an hour) on the coals. 4  Now, close the grill and let the smoke get started