This vaccine cannot be administered at birth, before age 6 weeks, or after age 71 months. †. § Combined Hepatitis A and hepatitis B vaccine. This vaccine is recommended for persons aged ≥18 years who are at increased risk for both hepatitis B virus and Hepatitis A virus infections. To avoid detection of anti-HBs from hepatitis B immune globulin administered during infancy and to maximize detection of late HBV infection, testing should not be performed before age 9 months nor within 4 weeks of the most recent vaccine dose.
Transmission. The hepatitis B virus can survive outside the body for at least 7 days. During this time, the virus can still cause infection if it enters the body of a person who is not protected by the vaccine. The incubation period of the hepatitis B virus is 75 days on average, but can vary from 30 to 180 days. The virus may be detected within 30 to 60 days after infection and can persist and develop into chronic hepatitis B. The likelihood that infection with the virus becomes chronic depends upon the age at which a person becomes infected. Children less than 6 years of age who become infected with the hepatitis B virus are the most likely to develop chronic infections.
Adolescents about 11–15 years of age (school years 6–8) who had not been previously vaccinated with the hepatitis B vaccine were offered a catch-up course through school-based vaccination programs in all Australian states and territories up until 2013. However, infants who miss the birth dose of monovalent hepatitis B vaccine do not require a catch-up dose, and should receive the 3 doses of a hepatitis B-containing combination vaccine at 2, 4 and 6 months of age as per the NIP schedule (see Table 1).
For infants born to HBsAg-positive mothers, postvaccination testing should be performed 1–2 months after completion of ≥3 doses of a licensed hepatitis B vaccine series (i.e., at age 9–18 months, generally at the next well-child visit). To avoid detection of anti-HBs from hepatitis B immune globulin administered during infancy and to maximize detection of late HBV infection, testing should not be performed before age 9 months nor within 4 weeks of the most recent vaccine dose.
Infants born to hepatitis B infected mothers are at risk of perinatal transmission. National policy recommends immunisation of infants (with vaccine +/- hepatitis B immunoglobulin) from birth and at 1, 2 and 12 months of age with testing for evidence infection at 12 months. The virus is transmitted by contact with an infected person’s blood or body fluids. Hepatitis B is vaccine preventable. The average incubation period for hepatitis B is 40 to 160 days. Some people experience flu-like symptoms including sore throat, tiredness, joint pains and nausea. Acute infection can be severe and cause abdominal discomfort and jaundice
1 Cannot be administered before age 6 weeks or after age 7 years. 2  TWINRIX®: Combined Hepatitis A and hepatitis B vaccine. 3  recommended for persons aged ≥18 years who are at increased risk for both Hepatitis A virus and HBV infections. To avoid detection of anti-HBs from hepatitis B immune globulin administered during infancy and to maximize detection of late HBV infection, testing should not be performed before age 9 months nor within 4 weeks of the most recent vaccine dose.
Hepatitis B is a potentially life-threatening liver infection caused by the hepatitis B virus. It is a major global health problem. It can cause chronic infection and puts people at high risk of death from cirrhosis and liver cancer. A vaccine against hepatitis B has been available since 1982. The likelihood that infection with the virus becomes chronic depends upon the age at which a person becomes infected. Children less than 6 years of age who become infected with the hepatitis B virus are the most likely to develop chronic infections.
Hepatitis B vaccine is a vaccine for the prevention of hepatitis B, an infection caused by the hepatitis B virus (HBV) . The vaccine contains one of the viral envelope proteins, hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg). It is produced by yeast cells, into which the genetic code for HBsAg has been inserted. 
1 Cannot be administered before age 6 weeks or after age 71 months. 2  PEDIARIX®: Combined hepatitis B, diphtheria, tetanus, acellular pertussis (DTaP), and inactivated poliovirus (IPV) vaccine. 3  Cannot be administered before age 6 weeks or after age 7 years. 4  TWINRIX®: Combined Hepatitis A and hepatitis B vaccine. To avoid detection of anti-HBs from hepatitis B immune globulin administered during infancy and to maximize detection of late HBV infection, testing should not be performed before age 9 months nor within 4 weeks of the most recent vaccine dose.