This name creates weaknesses in the heart, the respiratory organs, or the kidneys. Extended Description of this Name (viewable to Premium Members only). You are easily hurt and offended, and can suffer with moods of depression. You want the best, but lack the confidence and aggressiveness to materialize your desires. Find out more in your full free Name and Birth Date Report. In your free Name and Birth Date Report you will find out how your life is created and shaped by the powerful energies contained in your: 1  first name. 2  last name.
Procrastination is a weakness, for so often you are inclined to avoid issues and to leave things undone until the last moment when you are forced to take action. (viewable to Premium Members only). Below is a brief analysis of the first name only. For an analysis of your full name and destiny, see our full free Name and Birth Date Report service for further details. Find out more in your full free Name and Birth Date Report. In your free Name and Birth Date Report you will find out how your life is created and shaped by the powerful energies contained in your: 1  first name. 2  last name.
Click here to see the meaning of the Number 11/2 In Tarot. The number 11 is a Master Number of Revelation. People with a number 11 appearing in the name or birth date generally are endowed with special tendencies toward leadership and inspiration that set them apart from mass consciousness. You are generally warmhearted and gives freely of your time, energy, and sympathetic understanding. You have tolerance and acceptance of the frailties of others. Universal and humanitarian in outlook. This is very compassionate name.You are frank, methodical and believe in law, system and order.
[ 2 syll. ro-bel, rob-el ] The baby boy name Robel is pronounced as R OW BAHL †. Robel is of African origin. Robel is a derivative of the name Roble. Robel is unusual as a baby boy name. It is not ranked within the top 1000. Baby names that sound like Robel include Roble, Raphael (Raphaël), French (Raphel), Spanish, Ravel, Rebel (Raphael, English, French, german And), Hebrew, rippley And. raphello
Meaning & Origins. German: 1. nickname from Sorbian (w)robel ‘sparrow’. 2. (Roebel): röbel habitational name from a place so named In. mecklenburg. 3 from a pet form Of robert or A germanic personal name formed with ‘hrōd’ + renown ‘bald’, ‘bold’. brave German: 1. nickname from Sorbian (w)robel ‘sparrow’. 2. (Roebel): röbel habitational name from a place so named In. mecklenburg. 3 from a pet form Of robert or A germanic personal name formed with ‘hrōd’ + renown ‘bald’, ‘bold’. Brave see. more
Robel Name Meaning. nickname from Sorbian (w)robel ‘sparrow’.(Roebel): röbel habitational name from a place so named In.mecklenburg from a pet form Of robert or A germanic personal name formed with ‘hrod’ + renown ‘bald’, ‘bold’. brave Click on a circle in the chart to view Robel birth and death records. An unusually short lifespan might indicate that your ancestors lived in harsh conditions. A short lifespan might also indicate health problems that were once prevalent in your family.
Click on a circle in the chart to view Robel immigration records. You can find out when most of the Robel families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival and destination. from the Social Security Death Index (SSDI). Click on a circle in the chart to view Robel birth and death records. An unusually short lifespan might indicate that your ancestors lived in harsh conditions. A short lifespan might also indicate health problems that were once prevalent in your family.