1 The infection can be spread by saliva, and the incubation period for mono is four to eight weeks. 2  Most adults have laboratory evidence (antibodies against the EBV) indicative of a previous infection with EBV and are immune to further infection. 3  The symptoms of mono include: 4  fever, 5  fatigue, 6  sore throat, and. 1 The symptoms of mono include: 2  fever, 3  fatigue, 4  sore throat, and. 5  swollen lymph nodes. 6  The diagnosis of mono is confirmed by blood tests. 7  Mono can cause liver inflammation (hepatitis) and enlargement of the spleen
The most common symptoms of mono are: 1  Fever, which may range from 101°F (38.3°C) to 104°F (40°C) , and chills. 2  Sore throat, often with white patches on the tonsils (which may look like strep throat). 3  Swollen lymph nodes all over the body, especially the lymph nodes in the neck. 4  Swollen tonsils. 5  Headache or body aches. Not everyone infected with the virus that causes mono (Epstein-Barr virus, or EBV) has symptoms. This is especially true for young children, who may have a fever but no other symptoms. People ages 15 to 24 are most likely to have obviou
The characteristic symptoms of infection with EBV include fever, fatigue, malaise, and sore throat. The designation  mononucleosis  refers to an increase in a particular type of mononuclear white blood cells (lymphocytes) in the bloodstream relative to the other white blood cells as a result of the EBV infection. 1 The symptoms of mono include: 2  fever, 3  fatigue, 4  sore throat, and. 5  swollen lymph nodes. 6  The diagnosis of mono is confirmed by blood tests. 7  Mono can cause liver inflammation (hepatitis) and enlargement of the splee
Symptoms of mononucleosis can vary among individuals but generally begin about four to six weeks after exposure to the disease. Early symptoms are flu-like and may include fever, severe fatigue, headache, sore throat, and swollen tonsils. As mononucleosis progresses, typical symptoms include painful swollen glands in the neck, armpits, or groin. Some people may also develop a rash. Mononucleosis can also affect the spleen and result in an enlarged spleen, possibly leading to the critical, life-threatening complication of ruptured spleen.
The most common symptoms of mononucleosis are fever, sore throat, swollen glands (lymph nodes), and fatigue. Symptoms usually develop between four to six weeks after exposure to the EBV. Other signs and symptoms of mononucleosis may include the following: 1  headache, 2  rash, 3  malaise, 4  loss of appetite, 5  jaundice, 6  tonsillitis, 
Symptoms. Not everyone infected with the virus that causes mono (Epstein-Barr virus, or EBV) has symptoms. This is especially true for young children, who may have a fever but no other symptoms. People ages 15 to 24 are most likely to have obvious symptoms.
Symptoms. Typical symptoms of infectious mononucleosis usually appear 4 to 6 weeks after you get infected with EBV. Symptoms may develop slowly and may not all occur at the same time. These symptoms include—. 1  extreme fatigue. 2  fever. 3  sore throat. 4  head and body aches. 
The signs and symptoms of mono typically last for one to two months. Symptoms may include: 1  fever. 2  sore throat. 3  swollen lymph glands in the neck and armpits. 4  headache. 5  fatigue. 6  muscle weakness. 7  swollen tonsil
The most common symptoms of mononucleosis are fever, sore throat, and swollen lymph glands in the neck, under the arms, and in the groin area. Other symptoms include the following: 1  fatigue. 2  muscle aches or weakness. 3  white patches in the throat. 4  skin rash. 