If you are planning to make a relatively substantial contribution to a charity, such as a church/synagogue, college, hospital, or other qualified charitable organization, you should consider donating appreciated stock from your investment portfolio instead of cash. So remember that if you are considering the contribution of appreciated stock, you need to make sure that the shares have been held for more than one year and qualify for the qualified appreciated stock deduction.
But if you withdraw your company stock from your 401(k) and, instead of rolling it into an IRA, transfer it to a taxable brokerage account, you avoid ordinary income taxes on the stock's net unrealized appreciation (NUA) (regardless of whether you sell or continue to hold the stock). So the only part of your company stock that is subject to your ordinary income taxes is the value the stock was when it was first acquired by the 401(k) plan. In sum, because of this NUA tax break, it may be most beneficial for you not to roll over your company stock from the 401(k) into an IRA.
That way, you'll avoid the capital-gains taxes on the profit. Say you bought 100 shares of a stock at $10 and it's now worth $40 per share. If you give the stock to charity, you won't have to pay the capital-gains taxes on the $3,000 in profit. If you held the stock for more than a year and are in the 15% long-term capital gains tax bracket, that move will save you $450 in taxes, which you'd owe if you sold the stock firs
ENLARGE. James Kaczman. Donate appreciated stock to charity: You also can give appreciated stock to charity. If you've held it for more than one year you may take a charitable tax deduction for the market value of the stock, and neither you nor the charity has to pay capital-gains taxes when the stock is sold. Here are three tax-efficient ways to spread the wealth: Give appreciated stock to individuals: You can give up to $14,000 each to any number of recipients this year without incurring federal gift taxes.
Instead of simply selling to rebalance, you can give the excess to charity and even out your portfolio. This first step should give you several options to choose from, especially if you have not rebalanced your portfolio in a while. Next, look for highly appreciated stock. You should be able to see a gain/loss report from your custodian. Check this list for some of the categories that are out of balance, and see how much they have appreciated. This step of choosing highly appreciated stock is what allows you to save money on your taxes.
It now has appreciated to $10,000 and you wish to gift the entire amount to your favorite charity. If you sold the stock in order to write a check to charity, you would pay 15% in capital gains tax on the stock appreciation. In this example, the stock appreciation is $8,000. Next, look for highly appreciated stock. You should be able to see a gain/loss report from your custodian. Check this list for some of the categories that are out of balance, and see how much they have appreciated. This step of choosing highly appreciated stock is what allows you to save money on your taxes.
Giving appreciated stock or mutual funds to charity gives you an extra tax benefit: You can deduct the current value of the investment as a charitable contribution if you itemize, and you’ll avoid paying capital-gains taxes on the profits. You may also discover that another type of giving could work better for you, such as a investing in a charitable gift annuity if you want to create an income stream for yourself, or making a charity the beneficiary of an IRA or life insurance policy.
It's really just a book entry from your IRA account to your regular (non-IRA) taxable brokerage account, but it is treated as an IRA withdrawal for Internal Revenue Service tax purposes. When the stock is distributed from the IRA, there will be a tax on $20,000 of IRA distributions. If an IRA owner takes a distribution from his account in stock, he or she will pay ordinary income tax on the value of the stock on the date of the distribution.
Broker errors are causing IRA owners to pay needless additional tax on stock distributions. It's a costly mistake and one that is rarely caught or corrected. If an IRA owner takes a distribution from his account in stock, he or she will pay ordinary income tax on the value of the stock on the date of the distribution. There are no capital gains recognized inside an IRA. Let's say you buy $2,000 worth of a certain stock inside your IRA. The stock remains in the IRA and grows in value to $20,000. You now want to withdraw the stock, but you do not want to sell it
Roth IRA. If you don’t have one yet, you’ll need to set up a Roth IRA. If the depreciated stock resides in a traditional IRA or qualified account at a custodian that also offers Roth accounts, you can simply have the custodian change the account type if you are converting the entire account. 