Directions. 1  Preheat oven to 350°F. 2  Wash the potato, then microwave on high for about 4 minutes. 3  Rinse it again so it's wet. 4  Finish baking in oven for 10 to 15 minutes. 4 5. I microwaved for 4 minutes and baked in the oven 15 minutes. The potato was done and the skin was soft, but I don't care for crispy skin on my baked potato so this was just right for me. Thanks for a very easy method of making baked potatoes.
Season the potatoes to taste and microwave them on high for 3 to 5 minutes -- 3 for medium potatoes, 5 for large -- then turn them over and microwave for another 3 to 5 minutes. Using tongs, transfer the potatoes to a shallow dish or sheet pan and bake them in the oven until browned, about 10 to 15 minutes. Bake the potatoes for 30 minutes, lower the heat to 250 F and place a pot with about 1 inch of hot water in the bottom of the oven. The potatoes will be ready in 1 hour -- but stay fresh for another 2 hours. That's the advantage of the method.
2. Rub the potatoes with olive oil, sprinkle them with salt and pepper, and prick them with the tines of a fork. Place all the potatoes on a microwave-safe dish and microwave at full power for five minutes. Turn them over and microwave for another three to five minutes. Rub the potatoes with olive oil, sprinkle them with salt and pepper, and prick them with the tines of a fork. Wrap each potato in foil and lay it in the bottom of your slow cooker. Place the lid over top and set your slow cooker to LOW for eight to 10 hours. → Bottom line: Potatoes that bake while you're at work.
Directions: 1. Start potatoes in Microwave: Turn oven to 425*F. Wash the potatoes, then poke each one three times with a fork. Microwave the potatoes on high for 6 minutes. 2. Finish potatoes in oven: Transfer the potatoes to the oven, and cook for 20 minutes, or until the skin feels crisp when a potato is squeezed. Remove from the oven and immediately cut a slice the top of the potato to let the steam escape. Squeeze from the ends to fluff up, and serve.
Boil the potatoes for 10 to 12 minutes -- 12 for large potatoes, 10 for medium -- and drain them in a colander. Next, use tongs to transfer the hot potatoes to a sheet pan and brush them liberally with olive oil or butter. Bake until the skin sizzles and browns, about 10 minutes. Bake the potatoes for 30 minutes, lower the heat to 250 F and place a pot with about 1 inch of hot water in the bottom of the oven. The potatoes will be ready in 1 hour -- but stay fresh for another 2 hours. That's the advantage of the method.
Directions. Preheat the oven to 425 degrees F. Place potatoes in a plastic bag with the oil, rosemary, and garlic. Shake until well coated. Pour onto a cookie sheet, season with salt and pepper. Cook, turning once, until golden and crispy, about 30 minute
Directions. 1  Heat oven to 450 degrees Rinse potatoes, and pierce several times with tines of a fork. 2  Place on a microwave-safe plate; cover with damp paper towels. 3  Microwave at HIGH 8 to 10 minutes. 4  Place potatoes in a large jelly-roll pan. 5  Drizzle with olive oil, and sprinkle evenly with sea salt, turning to coat. 1
Place them on a sheet pan and bake them until fork tender, about 30 minutes. For 15 to 20 minutes of total cooking time, microwave the potatoes on high for 2 minutes, turn them over and microwave another 2 minutes before you roast them. Bake the potatoes for 30 minutes, lower the heat to 250 F and place a pot with about 1 inch of hot water in the bottom of the oven. The potatoes will be ready in 1 hour -- but stay fresh for another 2 hours. That's the advantage of the method.