BSR code is a seven digit number that is used by the Income Tax department in order to identify a bank branch for submission of returns to the RBI. IFSC and BSR both can be used in context to Indian financial system codes. IFSC and BSR both codes are used to represent the branch of a bank uniquely. Therefore, confusion may arise that if they share the basic definition then what is the difference between them.
BSR stands for BASIC STATISTICAL RETURNS. It is a 7-digit code allotted to banks by Reserve Bank of India. When filling TDS/TCS returns BSR code is used in challan details and deductee details. Bank BSR code is different from the branch code used for bank drafts, etc. This code is unique for each individual branch of a bank. Basic Statistical Returns is a system which initiates to integrate the data relating to various commercial banks and promotes the filling of the same with RBI at regular intervals. BSR code is used in a unique challan identification number (CIN) which also comprises of the date of deposit (dd/ mm/ yy i.e. six digits) and the challan serial number in 5 digits.
Basic Statistical Return (BSR) Code is a unique code assigned to each individual branch of banks by Reserve Bank of India. It consists of seven digits where first three digits represent the bank and remaining four digits represent the bank branch. 
The difference between IFSC code & BSR code is that it can be used in context to Indian financial system codes. IFSC and BSR codes are used to represent the branch of a bank uniquely. Therefore, confusion may arise that if they share the basic definition then what is the difference between IFSC Code & BSR Code. The purpose of BSR code in CIN is that iit is used as a combination alongwith the date of deposit (8 digits) and Challan Serial Number (5 digits).CIN is stamped on the acknowledgement receipt to uniquely identify the tax payment. Users must ensure that CIN is stamped on the Challan by the bank.
BSR stands for BASIC STATISTICAL RETURNS. It is a 7-digit code allotted to banks by Reserve Bank of India. When filling TDS/TCS returns BSR code is used in challan details and deductee details. Bank BSR code is different from the branch code used for bank drafts, etc. This code is unique for each individual branch of a bank. Basic Statistical Returns is a system which initiates to integrate the data relating to various commercial banks and promotes the filling of the same with RBI at regular intervals
BSR Code India. Bank Branch code or BSR code is a 7-digit code allotted to banks by RBI. It is mandatory to quote BSR code both in challan details and deductee details when filing TDS/ TCS return. This is different from the branch code, which is used for bank drafts etc. Find Bank BSR Code. 
BSR code is used in a unique challan identification number (CIN) which also comprises of the date of deposit (dd/ mm/ yy i.e. six digits) and the challan serial number in 5 digits. CIN will be unique for each challan throughout the country and will be used for identifying the challan in the OLATS. It is a 7-digit code allotted to banks by Reserve Bank of India. When filling TDS/TCS returns BSR code is used in challan details and deductee details. Bank BSR code is different from the branch code used for bank drafts, etc. This code is unique for each individual branch of a bank. Basic Statistical Returns is a system which initiates to integrate the data relating to various commercial banks and promotes the filling of the same with RBI at regular intervals
BSR Code is issued by the Reserve Bank of India to all Indian banks. It consists of seven digits code with first three digits identifying the bank and remaining four digits identifying the branch. The purpose of BSR code in CIN is that iit is used as a combination alongwith the date of deposit (8 digits) and Challan Serial Number (5 digits).CIN is stamped on the acknowledgement receipt to uniquely identify the tax payment. Users must ensure that CIN is stamped on the Challan by the bank.
CIN will, therefore, be unique for each challan through out the country and will be used for identifying the challan in the OLTAS. BASIC STATASTICAL RETURNS (BSR). BSR code is unique for a branch of a bank.Hence all the branches of any Bank will have its unique BSR (Basic Statistical Return) Code. This will help to recognize the bank's branch detail. it will be also helpful for a pensioner who retires from GOVT. 