Reload the page to try again! Press Cmd-0 to reset your zoom. Press Ctrl-0 to reset your zoom. It looks like your browser might be zoomed in or out. Your browser needs to be zoomed to a normal size to record audio.
Plants, animals and fungi are eukaryotes, distinct from eubacteria and archaebacteria, which are prokaryotes. The difference being in the composition of the cell, particularly a nucleus contained within a membrane for eukaryotes, along with other membrane bound organelles, e.g. chloroplasts.
King: Yes. All animals, from sponges to jellyfish to vertebrates [animals with a backbone], can be traced to a common ancestor. So far, molecular and fossil evidence indicate that animals evolved at least 600 million years ago. The fossil record does not reveal what the first animals looked like or how they lived.
They form distinct groups known as Kingdoms under Linnaean based biological classification; the Fungi, Plantae and Animalia. Thus, in answer to your question, no, animals did not evolve from plants. Plants have chloroplasts in their cells, which provide the ability to produce energy via photosynthesis.
Station 23 – The Gametophyte Generation of a Moss Male plants can be identified by the flower-like cluster of “leaves” at the tip of the gametophyte. In the female plants, the “leaves” closely surround the tip of the gametophyte. Be able to recognize the difference between male and female plants.
All animals, from sponges to jellyfish to vertebrates [animals with a backbone], can be traced to a common ancestor. So far, molecular and fossil evidence indicate that animals evolved at least 600 million years ago. The fossil record does not reveal what the first animals looked like or how they lived.
2. Ancestors of animals had mitochondria (hence the animal equivalent of the chloroplast is the mitochondria), as did the ancestors of plants have chloroplasts. Although, it is a common misconception, that plants don't respire and in fact most plants also have mitochondria.
– Anixx May 7 '12 at 10:04. Ancestors of animals had mitochondria (hence the animal equivalent of the chloroplast is the mitochondria), as did the ancestors of plants have chloroplasts. Although, it is a common misconception, that plants don't respire and in fact most plants also have mitochondria.