The MSA will select for organisms such as Staphylococcus species which can live in areas of high salt concentration (plate on the left in the picture below). This is in contrast to Streptococcus species, whose growth is selected against by this high salt agar (plate on the right in the picture below). Fermentation of this sugar results in an acidic pH and causes the pH indicator, neutral red, to turn a bright pinky-red color. Thus organisms capable of lactose fermentation such as Escherichia coli, form bright pinky-red colonies (plate pictured on the left here).
No, Staphylococci are facilitative anaerobes which means they grow by aerobic respiration or fermentation that produces lactic acid. This means that it can grow in an oxyge … n rich environment or one that is not. 5 people found this useful. 1  Preventing Food Transmission of Staphylococcus Aureus Staphylococcus aureus, commonly known as staph, is the bacteria known to cause staph infections and food poisoning. 2  The Staphylococcus aureus bacteria itself does not cause f….
Cell structure and metabolism. Staphylococcus aureus is a gram-positive bacteria, which means that the cell wall of this bacteria consists of a very thick peptidoglycan layer. They form spherical colonies in clusters in 2 planes and have no flagella. MRSA: The first serious emergence of antibiotic resistance staph occurred with a specific strain we refer to as Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus aureus, abbreviated as MRSA. This strain expressed a modified penicillin-binding protein encoded by mecA gene and is present in 4 forms of Staph.
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Yes, it can ferment lactose. Mannitol Salt Agar is used to identify S.aureus. When it ferments D-mannitol, it produces an acid which turns the agar yellow from red. S.epidermidis will grow, but the agar remains red. 
Yes, it can ferment lactose. Mannitol Salt Agar is used to identify S.aureus. When it ferments D-mannitol, it produces an acid which turns the agar yellow from red. S.ep … idermidis will grow, but the agar remains red. 5 people found this useful. 1  Preventing Food Transmission of Staphylococcus Aureus Staphylococcus aureus, commonly known as staph, is the bacteria known to cause staph infections and food poisoning. 2  The Staphylococcus aureus bacteria itself does not cause f….
S. aureus produces and enzyme known as catalase, which is used to do a catalase test to differentiate staphylococci and streptococci. This can be done by the conversion of hydrogen peroxide into oxygen and water by adding 3% hydrogen peroxide to a colony on an agar plate. Another test, known as the coagulase test, is done to tell apart S.aureus from other types of staphylococci. This test is valuable because of the production of coagulase, a clot forming enzyme, in S. aureus that is not produced in most other Staphylococcus organisms.
An MSA plate with Micrococcus sp. (1), Staphylococcus epidermidis (2) and S. aureus colonies (3). Mannitol salt agar or MSA is a commonly used selective and differential growth medium in microbiology. It encourages the growth of a group of certain bacteria while inhibiting the growth of others. This medium is important in medical laboratories by distinguishing pathogenic microbes in a short period of time
Ecology. Staphylococcus aureus is among the most common hospital acquired pathogens. It is a normal inhabitant of the skin and mucous membranes in the nose of a healthy human. S. aureus is infectious to both animals and humans and may only survive on dry skin. MRSA: The first serious emergence of antibiotic resistance staph occurred with a specific strain we refer to as Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus aureus, abbreviated as MRSA. This strain expressed a modified penicillin-binding protein encoded by mecA gene and is present in 4 forms of Staph.
Mannitol Salt Agar. Mannitol Salt Agar (MSA) is a selective and differential medium. The high concentration of salt (7.5%) selects for members of the genus Staphylococcus, since they can tolerate high saline levels. Organisms from other genera may grow, but they typically grow very weakly. MSA also contains the sugar mannitol and the pH indicator phenol red.