Brown. Brown is the normal color of poop. There is a pigment called bilirubin that is formed when the red blood cells in the liver and bone marrow break down. This ends up (by a complicated process) in the intestines where bacteria begins to form and eat which turns the poop brown. 
1 With any color of diarrhea, with the following kinds of severe symptoms, seek immediate medical care (call emergency services) for: 2  Severe abdominal pain, stool with blood or pus, 3  High fever (higher than 101 degrees Fahrenheit), 4  Significant vomiting, 5  Seizures, changes in mental status, or sudden behavior changes. Stop being puzzled by amorphous colors of bowel movements -- now colors can suggest warnings or not! You can learn about reading the poop-colors and might avoid up-close and personal, minor issues, and know suggested times to get to your doctor -- if you know how to scan the specific color indicators.
Stool (feces) color is most commonly brown. When stool color changes an person often becomes concerned. The presence of the bilirubin in the bile (a breakdown product of the hemoglobin in red blood cells that are normally destroyed after a useful life of several weeks) is generally responsible for stool color. In most cases, stool color changes are not symptoms of disease. Changes in stool color may be due to: 1  Diarrhea may cause green or yellow stools. 2  Some foods (beets, Jell-O, licorice). 3  A few OTC and prescription medications. 4  Diseases affecting the liver, pancreas, and intestines
Four Methods: Probably normal ~ Seek emergency care Worries Newborns, infants and toddlers. Colors of poop do indicate health -- versus a number of illnesses, suggesting specific, possible problems to get attention! Stop being puzzled by amorphous colors of bowel movements -- now colors can suggest warnings or not! You can learn about reading the poop-colors and might avoid up-close and personal, minor issues, and know suggested times to get to your doctor -- if you know how to scan the specific color indicators.
Yesterday, my stool color was bright green. Stool comes in a range of colors. All shades of brown and even green are considered normal. Only rarely does stool color indicate a potentially serious intestinal condition. Stool color is generally influenced by what you eat as well as by the amount of bile — a yellow-green fluid that digests fats — in your stool. As bile pigments travel through your gastrointestinal tract, they are chemically altered by enzymes — changing the pigments from green to brown. 
Brown: The color of stool is most commonly various shades of brown due to a combination of several factors (bile content, transit time, diet, medications, intestinal flora/ bacteria). These factors may result in green or even a yellow hue. ...Read more. 
1 Changes in stool color may be due to diarrhea; bleeding in the intestine; diseases of the intestines, liver, or pancreas; and medications. 2  Diagnosis when stool color changes depends on what process is suspected of causing the change, for example, gastrointestinal (GI) endoscopy if bleeding is supsected. In most cases, stool color changes are not symptoms of disease. Changes in stool color may be due to: 1  Diarrhea may cause green or yellow stools. 2  Some foods (beets, Jell-O, licorice). 3  A few OTC and prescription medications. 4  Diseases affecting the liver, pancreas, and intestines
Color : “Bowel movements are generally brown in color because of bile, which is produced in the liver and important to the digestion process,” Aserkoff tells WebMD. The food you eat typically takes three days from the time you eat it until it finishes its journey in your toilet, Aserkoff says. When it comes to frequency, color, shape, and size, a general rule of thumb is that normal bowel movements are defined as what’s comfortable for you. But being knowledgeable about your digestive process can help you identify when normal goes awry.
If your gastrointestinal (GI) tract is not functioning correctly, it presents stool colors to tell you quite a lot about what's going down in your internals, GI area, and indicates that you might have health problems -- or good health -- in several areas. Stop being puzzled by amorphous colors of bowel movements -- now colors can suggest warnings or not! You can learn about reading the poop-colors and might avoid up-close and personal, minor issues, and know suggested times to get to your doctor -- if you know how to scan the specific color indicators.