Use other services to... 1  find out the current local time in a location or time zone (use the World Clock or city search function instead). 2  find out the best times to arrange a phone call, web/video conference, or chat across time zones, (use the Meeting Planner instead).
Change your time zone. When you change the time zone setting in Outlook 2010, all Calendar views are updated so that they display the new time zone, and all Calendar items reflect the new time zone. Click the File tab. Click Options. Click Calendar. Under Time Zones, type a name for the current time zone in the Label box. In the Time zone list, click the time zone that you want to use. Notes. When you adjust time zone and daylight saving time settings in Outlook, Windows clock settings are also adjusted. When Outlook is set to a time zone that observes daylight saving time, the clock adjusts for daylight saving time by default.
Legend: How to use the interactive Time Zone Map. 1  Search for any city in the search field above and place a black pin by that city on the map. 2  If you place more than one pin, an extra line of information is added underneath the map with links to those cities' pages.3  You may add as many pins as you like. To remove the pins permanently (undo not possible), simply click here or on the Time Zone Map link in the menu above. 2  Hover your mouse over any of the red dots to see the name of the city and country and current local time.
In the Time zone list, click the time zone that you want to use. If you want your computer clock to automatically adjust for daylight saving time (DST) changes, select the Adjust for daylight saving time check box. This option is available only in time zones that use daylight saving time (DST). You can add and display a second time zone in Outlook, which can be useful when you are scheduling meetings or conference calls with people who are working in other time zones. When you add a second time zone, the current time in the primary time zone is highlighted with a color gradient to make it easier to see.
See the sender's timestamp when you read or reply to Outlook e-mail messages. Sender's Time Zone is a plug-in for Microsoft Outlook that displays the sender's current time and your time zone difference when you read or reply to an Outlook e-mail message. 1  You see the time stamp of the message sender at a glance.
In the Time zone list, click the time zone that you want to add. If you want your computer clock to automatically adjust for daylight saving time changes, select the Adjust for daylight saving time check box. This option is available only in time zones that use daylight saving time (DST).ou can add and display a second time zone in Outlook, which can be useful when you are scheduling meetings or conference calls with people who are working in other time zones. When you add a second time zone, the current time in the primary time zone is highlighted with a color gradient to make it easier to see.
1 find out the current local time in a location or time zone (use the World Clock or city search function instead). 2  find out the best times to arrange a phone call, web/video conference, or chat across time zones, (use the Meeting Planner instead).
Occasionally you may want to adjust the timestamp shown by Sender's Time Zone for a particular person. The point is the add-in looks at the time stated in the Date field of the message header and compares it to the time set on your PC.ee the sender's timestamp when you read or reply to Outlook e-mail messages. Sender's Time Zone is a plug-in for Microsoft Outlook that displays the sender's current time and your time zone difference when you read or reply to an Outlook e-mail message. 1  You see the time stamp of the message sender at a glance.
1 You can also select a time zone by clicking on the Time zones... button. 2  Caution when using the “Time zones” button: When marking a time zone in the list (step 1) the Time Zone Converter will suggest locations that are in that time zone (step 2). find out the current local time in a location or time zone (use the World Clock or city search function instead). 2  find out the best times to arrange a phone call, web/video conference, or chat across time zones, (use the Meeting Planner instead).
A time zone is a geographical area in which clocks are synchronised to show a uniform time, known as a ‘standard time’. Due to the size of some countries and the location of places that come under their jurisdiction, one country can be divided into a number of time zones. France, for example, covers twelve