a female lion is called a lioness and a male tiger is called a tiger. A baby is called a Cub. Look on the Internet of what a female and male lion is called Baby = cub Female = lioness Male = Lion(from the info i found on Google.com this should … be right). + 29 others found this useful. Daisy Grace Celada
Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answer by Nick99s. Confidence votes 168. A MALE liion is called a lion, but a FEMALE lion is called a lioness i got my information from Google.com and all the answers matched soo iam 99.9% positive. you are so not good at this. i female lion is called lionnes. A baby is called a Cub. Look on the Internet of what a female and male lion is called Baby = cub Female = lioness Male = Lion(from the info i found on Google.com this should … be right). + 29 others found this useful.
A male lion is called a lion. A female lion is called a lioness. A baby is called a Cub. Look on the Internet of what a female and male lion is called Baby = cub Female = lioness Male = Lion(from the info i found on Google.com this should … be right). + 29 others found this useful. Daisy Grace Celada
1 Primo is adopted by the Venetians as the reincarnation of the Leone di San Marco (Lion of St Mark), and remains in Venice as a beloved protector when Charlie and the six lions leave. 2  He is later returned by King Boris and Claudio to the forests near Essaouira to be with the wild lions. The series [edit]. The book series is about a young boy named Charlie Ashanti who can speak the language of cats, after accidentally swapping blood with a leopard cub.
Lionboy is a children's and young adult's fantasy trilogy written by Zizou Corder (the shared pen-name of English novelist Louisa Young and her daughter Isabel Adomakoh Young). The series [edit]. The book series is about a young boy named Charlie Ashanti who can speak the language of cats, after accidentally swapping blood with a leopard cub.
Christian The Lion was originally purchased by Australian John Rendall and Anthony Ace Bourke from Harrods department store of London, England, in 1969 and ultimately reintroduced to the African wild by conservationist George Adamson. Christian, the Hugging Lion was written by Justin Richardson and Peter Parnell, and illustrated by Amy June Bates. The book was nominated as a finalist for the 23rd Lambda Literary Awards in the Children's/Young Adult Fiction category.
He is simply referred to as a lion. The sexes of white lions are not known as anything different than the sexes of the normal tawny colored lions. A male is a lion, a female … is a lioness and a baby is a cub. A baby is called a Cub. Look on the Internet of what a female and male lion is called Baby = cub Female = lioness Male = Lion(from the info i found on Google.com this should … be right). + 29 others found this useful.
By this time Christian was successfully defending his own pride, had cubs of his own and was about twice the size he was in the earlier reunion video. Adamson advised Rendall that it would most likely be a wasted trip as he had not seen Christian's pride for nine months. Christian, the Hugging Lion was written by Justin Richardson and Peter Parnell, and illustrated by Amy June Bates. The book was nominated as a finalist for the 23rd Lambda Literary Awards in the Children's/Young Adult Fiction category.
An infant lion or lioness is called a cub. Just like the bear. When fully grown the lion or lioness hunts and does everything else as a fully grown lion (or lioness). Money Man · 8 years ago. 