This period between the stomach flu transmission and the start of symptoms is the stomach flu incubation period.. In some cases, the stomach flu incubation period can be as short as 4 hours. There are a variety of viruses that cause the stomach … flu (viral gastroenteritis). The incubation period for most of these viruses is 24-48 hours. However, the incubation period can occasionally be a full week.
Additional Notes on Incubation Period. Despite the length of the incubation period in rotavirus and norovirus, there is an average period of time that people will incubate the illness. Most people will harbor the stomach flu virus for as little as 4 hours to as long as 2 days. To understand the differences in incubation periods for stomach flu, know that there are two viruses that cause stomach flu: norovirus and rotavirus. Norovirus. Norovirus is the most common cause of stomach flu. Most people are contagious from the moment that they become ill.
The incubation period of the stomach flu is the time from when you swallowed the viruses to when you start to feel sick. There are a variety of viruses that cause the stomach … flu (viral gastroenteritis). The incubation period for most of these viruses is 24-48 hours. However, the incubation period can occasionally be a full week.
When a person becomes infected with stomach flu, the virus begins to multiply within the small intestine. After approximately 1 to 2 days, depending on the virus, stomach flu symptoms can appear. This period between the stomach flu transmission and the start of symptoms is the stomach flu incubation period.. In some cases, the stomach flu incubation period can be as short as 4 hours. Whether or not a person is contagious during the stomach flu incubation period will depend on which stomach flu virus the person is infected with. For example, with a rotavirus infection, the person is contagious during
After approximately 1 to 2 days, depending on the virus, stomach flu symptoms can appear. This period between the stomach flu transmission and the start of symptoms is the stomach flu incubation period.. In some cases, the stomach flu incubation period can be as short as 4 hours. Whether or not a person is contagious during the stomach flu incubation period will depend on which stomach flu virus the person is infected with. For example, with a rotavirus infection, the person is contagious during
Answer: The incubation period of the stomach flu is usually about 48 hours but it can vary. My sister has 5 children. They caught the stomach flu from relative they saw on Christmas day (Friday, December 25, 2009). My sister's first child got sick on Sunday night, 2 others on Monday night, and a 4th on Tuesday. Adenovirus typically has a 1-week incubation period2. However, the incubation period can vary from person to person even when dealing with the same virus. In a recent bout of the stomach flu (viral gastroenteritis) in a friend’s household, the 5 year old got sick exactly 2 days after the 1 year old.
The Incubation Period of Stomach Flu. To understand the differences in incubation periods for stomach flu, know that there are two viruses that cause stomach flu: norovirus and rotavirus. Norovirus. Norovirus is the most common cause of stomach flu. Most people are contagious from the moment that they become ill. Much of the symptoms start appearing within a day or three days of getting exposed; some people are known to be contagious up about two weeks after recovering from the illness
The incubation period of the stomach flu is the time from when you swallowed the viruses to when you start to feel sick. There are a variety of viruses that cause the stomach … flu (viral gastroenteritis). The incubation period for most of these viruses is 24-48 hours. However, the incubation period can occasionally be a full week. Whether or not a person is contagious during the stomach flu incubation period will depend on which stomach flu virus the person is infected with. For example, with a rotavirus infection, the person is contagious during the stomach flu incubation period.
What is the incubation period of the stomach flu (norovirus and others)? Answer: The incubation period of the stomach flu is usually about 48 hours but it can vary. It generally takes about 48 hours from the time you swallow the virus (norovirus or others) to the time when you start to feel sick1. However, it can easily be less time or more time. Adenovirus typically has a 1-week incubation period2. However, the incubation period can vary from person to person even when dealing with the same virus. In a recent bout of the stomach flu (viral gastroenteritis) in a friend’s household, the 5 year old got sick exactly 2 days after the 1 year old.