Pancreatic juice is composed of two secretory products critical to proper digestion: digestive enzymes and bicarbonate. The enzymes are synthesized and secreted from the exocrine acinar cells, whereas bicarbonate is secreted from the epithelial cells lining small pancreatic ducts.
It has exocrine tissue and endocrine tissue. The exocrine function of the pancreas is to synthesize and secrete pancreatic juice and enzymes. The pancreatic juice is an alkaline fluid. The enzymes help digest food in the small intestine. These enzymes and juice flow into the main pancreatic duct.
Digestive Enzymes Produced by the Pancreas. Pancreatic enzymes are essential for digestion of proteins, fats and carbohydrates. Although not as well known as the mouth, esophagus, stomach, small and large intestines, the pancreas is an integral part of the digestive system.
The pancreas also produces pancreatic lipase, an enzyme essential for the digestion of dietary fat. However, the action of pancreatic lipase is dependent on the release of bile from the liver. Bile emulsifies fat, suspending it as small droplets in the water-based digestive juices of the small intestine.
The pancreas is a glandular organ in the upper abdomen, but really it serves as two glands in one: a digestive exocrine gland and a hormone-producing endocrine gland. Functioning as an exocrine gland, the pancreas excretes enzymes to break down the proteins, lipids, carbohydrates, and nucleic acids in food.
Epithelial cells in pancreatic ducts are the source of the bicarbonate and water secreted by the pancreas. Bicarbonate is a base and critical to neutralizing the acid coming into the small intestine from the stomach.
Pancreatic enzymes are protein molecules secreted by the pancreas that play an important role in the digestive process. Their main job is to break down proteins, fats, and carbohydrates that enter the small intestine.
1. Proteases Digestion of proteins is initiated by pepsin in the stomach, but the bulk of protein digestion is due to the pancreatic proteases. Several proteases are synthesized in the pancreas and secreted into the lumen of the small intestine.