Amino acid definition and structure -- any of a group of organic molecules that consists of a basic amino group (-NH2), an acidic carboxyl group (-COOH), and an organic R group (or side chain), which is unique to each. When two or more are put together, it is called a peptide. Amino acid list-these are the most common found in protein Alanine, 2-aminopropanoic acid, is non-essential. It exists as two distinct enantiomers-L-alanine and D-alanine. L-alanine is one of the 20 most commonly used in protein synthesis. Arginine converts into nitric oxide.
Among the most widely used are vitamin supplements, protein, branched-chain amino acids (BCAA), glutamine, essential fatty acids, meal replacement products, creatine, weight loss products and testosterone boosters. Glutamine is the most abundant amino acid found in human muscle and is commonly found in supplements or as a micronized, instantly soluble powder because supplement manufacturers claim the body's natural glutamine stores are depleted during anaerobic exercise.
Amino Acids. Amino Acids are vital nutrients that the body uses for several biochemical and physiological functions. Amino Acid supplements come in a lot of different forms too-powders, liquids, pills – and different brands offer different ways to help you get your amino acids. 
Like all proteins, whey protein is made of building blocks called amino acids. Protein in the body is primarily used for muscle growth and to repair tissues. When people digest food, they break down the proteins into amino acids, and then use those amino acids to build new proteins. Body builders prize whey protein as a good source of the amino acids leucine, isoleucine and valine.
Bodybuilding supplements are dietary supplements commonly used by those involved in bodybuilding and athletics. Bodybuilding supplements may be used to replace meals, enhance weight gain, promote weight loss or improve athletic performance. Glutamine is the most abundant amino acid found in human muscle and is commonly found in supplements or as a micronized, instantly soluble powder because supplement manufacturers claim the body's natural glutamine stores are depleted during anaerobic exercise.
Dietary supplements are substances you might use to add nutrients to your diet or to lower your risk of health problems, like osteoporosis or arthritis. Dietary supplements come in the form of pills, capsules, powders, gel tabs, extracts, or liquids. They might contain vitamins, minerals, fiber, amino acids, herbs or other plants, or enzymes. Sometimes, the ingredients in dietary supplements are added to foods, including drinks. A doctor’s prescription is not needed to buy dietary supplements. 
Lysine. Lysine is an essential amino acid that is found in foods such as yogurt, cheese, meats and beans. It is available as a dietary supplement that is used to treat some metabolic disorders. Learn more about lysine from our experts
$7.19. Dietary Supplement Amino Acid 500 mg Conditionally Essential Amino Acid Pharmaceutical Grade L-Arginine is a conditionally essential basic amino acid involved primarily in urea metabolism and excretion, as well as DNA synthesis.* The L-Arginine used in this product is Pharmaceutical Grade. Dietary Supplement Pure Free-Form Crystalline Amino Acid Powder A diet supplying 30g of protein provides approximately 3g (3000mg) of L-Glutamine, an amino acid building block of protein.
When protein is digested it is once again broken down into specific amino acids, that are then selectively put together for different uses. These new proteins formed in the body are what make up most solid matter in the body: skin, eyes, heart, intestines, bones and, of course, muscle. Next to the 8 essential amino acids, there are around 14 non-essential amino acids and a whole host of other metabolites classed as amino acids which are derived from the 8 essential ones.
1 Contains one or more dietary ingredients (including vitamins, minerals, herbs or other botanicals, amino acids, and certain other substances) or their constituents. 2  Is intended to be taken by mouth, in forms such as tablet, capsule, powder, softgel, gelcap, or liquid. 3  Is labeled as being a dietary supplement. Its resources include publications (such as Dietary Supplements: What You Need to Know), fact sheets on a variety of specific supplement ingredients and products (such as vitamin D and multivitamin/mineral supplements), and the PubMed Dietary Supplement Subset.