1 ConcreteNetwork.com provided an overview on what most concrete flooring jobs would cost. 2  They noted that the average can be anywhere from $2.50 to as much as $30 per square foot. What are the extra costs? 1  Experts recommend that you install a large baseboard along the flooring. 2  To avoid a wetter look, a silcone-based sealer will be required, which can add another $1 to $2 per square foot to the job. 3  Older concrete that needs to be patched or fixed can cost around $2 to $5
1 Extensive surface preparation, such as grinding, crack repair, and spall repair, can add as much as $2 per square foot to the overall cost of the floor. 2  If a full resurfacing is needed, expect to tack on another $2 to $3 per square foot (for a $4 to $5 per square foot increase). 1 Typically installers put down a series of products including waterproofing, metal lathe, a concrete overlay and then the final finishing and sealing coats. 2  These applications can add another $2 to $3 per square foot to the cost of the floor.
We also do a lot of other decorative concrete applications, you'll be able to find pricing for stamped concrete, stained concrete, and more at the bottom of the page. MY BASIC COST TO POUR AND FINISH A CONCRETE FLOOR IS $2.50 - $3.00 PER SQUARE FOOT. Grading of the sub-base-it must be level and compacted. 10. Styrofoam-used a lot for radiant heat floors Those are the basics of what's included and not included in my concrete floor costs. For residential concrete floors my $2.50 - $3.00 dollars per sq. ft. cost will remain consistent throughout the year.
1 These applications can add another $2 to $3 per square foot to the cost of the floor. 2  Moisture-Vapor Transmission-Some floors have a high level of moisture-vapor transmission that will need to be remedied before most decorative coatings, overlays or sealers can be applied. 1 Typically installers put down a series of products including waterproofing, metal lathe, a concrete overlay and then the final finishing and sealing coats. 2  These applications can add another $2 to $3 per square foot to the cost of the floor.
1 An economical option, which can just change the tone of the concrete floor, will typically cost less than $6. 2  An elaborate finish, which can come in many various designs and application techniques, can cost upwards of $10 per square foot. What are the extra costs? 1  Experts recommend that you install a large baseboard along the flooring. 2  To avoid a wetter look, a silcone-based sealer will be required, which can add another $1 to $2 per square foot to the job. 3  Older concrete that needs to be patched or fixed can cost around $2 to $5
Wow, lots of interesting comments. First, getting concrete overlay finish costs about the same as the cost to put in cork or hardwood floors (note you have to use engineered hardwood floating floor if putting over a concrete slab). I paid $10 sq ft. I got quotes for less, but went with the concrete artists that I thought did the best work.
1 On average, getting concrete floors can cost anywhere from as little as $2 to as much as $17 per square foot. 2  An economical option, which can just change the tone of the concrete floor, will typically cost less than $6. What are the extra costs? 1  Experts recommend that you install a large baseboard along the flooring. 2  To avoid a wetter look, a silcone-based sealer will be required, which can add another $1 to $2 per square foot to the job. 3  Older concrete that needs to be patched or fixed can cost around $2 to $5
Economical. The cost of concrete floors is very low, about $2 to $6 per square foot to polish a plain gray slab, giving it a lustrous sheen. The concrete's tonal differences, subtle cracks and aggregates take on a stonelike, natural feel. First, getting concrete overlay finish costs about the same as the cost to put in cork or hardwood floors (note you have to use engineered hardwood floating floor if putting over a concrete slab). I paid $10 sq ft. I got quotes for less, but went with the concrete artists that I thought did the best work.
Video on the cost of concrete floors. Depending on the level of complexity, concrete floors can cost as little as $2 to $6 a square foot or be as expensive as $15 to $30 a square foot. 1 Typically installers put down a series of products including waterproofing, metal lathe, a concrete overlay and then the final finishing and sealing coats. 2  These applications can add another $2 to $3 per square foot to the cost of the floor.