Wild asses, antelopes and gazelles are some of the endangered species of the Sahara Desert. slide 1 of 7. Editor's Note: This article was archived on January 29, 2013, as the content addresses species that were endangered at the time the article was originally written -- June 25, 2010. slide 2 of 7. There are 90 species of birds and 100 species of reptiles. These species have developed may adaptations to survive in this harsh environment. Among the animals found in the Sahara desert are camels, antelopes, gazelles, goats, ostriches, scorpions, snakes, lizards, and vipers.
Confidence votes 242K. Passionate about all things Australian. A variety of animal species live in the Sahara Desert, where in its dry interior, or along the edges. There are some 70 species of mammals and at least 90 species of birds, while another 300 species of migratory birds are found in the Sahara. There are also numerous reptiles, amphibians and a range of invertebrates:
The Sahara today is the largest desert in the world, estimated to be between seven and nine million square kilometres (7-9m km2) - that is about one third of Africa. The fauna of the Sahara includes about 70 species of mammals, 300 species of birds, including 90 species of resident birds, and around 100 species of reptiles. Owing to extreme heat, most small desert creatures are nocturnal
Geography of the Sahara Desert. There are also several mountain ranges within the Sahara and many are volcanic. The highest peak found in these mountains is Emi Koussi, a shield volcano that rises to 11,204 ft (3,415 m). It is a part of the Tibesti Range in northern Chad. The Sahara Desert is located in the northern portion of Africa and covers over 3,500,000 square miles (9,000,000 sq km) or roughly 10% of the continent (image) .
At 3.6 million square miles (9.4 million square kilometers), the Sahara, which is Arabic for The Great Desert, engulfs most of North Africa. The desert covers large sections of Algeria, Chad, Egypt, Libya, Mali, Mauritania, Morocco, Niger, Western Sahara, Sudan and Tunisia. This is the image many people have of the Sahara: a vast sea of sand dunes. The terrain is actually quite varied. Half of the Sahara receives less than an inch of rain per year, and the rest receives up to 4 inches (10 centimeters) per year. The infrequent rain is usually torrential.
The Sahara Desert is the world's largest hot desert, covering much of North Africa. The adaptations of the wildlife and plants to the treacherous environment are fascinating, and the cultural history of this geographic crossroads complex and involved. The dromedary camel, one of the Sahara's most famous animals. 
The harsh conditions imposed by the desert climate force desert inhabitants to adapt. The fact that many species of plants and animals thrive even in these conditions is a great testament to the resourcefulness of life. Here are some amazingly adaptive Sahara desert animals. 10. Monitor lizards not only include desert-thriving species in the Sahara, but also species which can live in forests or even wetlands. This makes them some of the most versatile creatures on the planet. They are extremely intelligent and can even count. 7.
Fauna of the Sahara desert. According to the World Wide Fund (World Wildlife Fund), the fauna of the central Sahara is richer than is generally believed. They estimate that there are 70 species of mammal, 20 of which are large. There are 90 species of birds and 100 species of reptiles. These species have developed may adaptations to survive in this harsh environment. Among the animals found in the Sahara desert are camels, antelopes, gazelles, goats, ostriches, scorpions, snakes, lizards, and vipers.