The septum is made up of bone and cartilage. When this cartilage or bone is off-center (deviated to one side) or crooked, it is referred to as a deviated septum. 1 The thin wall between the nostrils is made of cartilage and bone, and is called the septum. 2  When this is off-center or crooked, it is called a deviated septum.
See Ceuta#History for the city in Roman Mauretania. In biology, a septum (Latin for something that encloses; plural septa) is a wall, dividing a cavity or structure into smaller ones. 
Deviated septum facts. 1  The thin wall between the nostrils is made of cartilage and bone, and is called the septum. 2  When this is off-center or crooked, it is called a deviated septum. 3  A deviated septum may be present at birth, may become crooked during growth, or may be caused by injury to the nose and face. 1 The thin wall between the nostrils is made of cartilage and bone, and is called the septum. 2  When this is off-center or crooked, it is called a deviated septum.
In this article. A deviated septum is a condition in which the nasal septum -- the bone and cartilage that divide the nasal cavity of the nose in half -- is significantly off center, or crooked, making breathing difficult. Most people have some sort of imbalance in the size of their breathing passages. A. A deviated septum is a condition in which the nasal septum -- the bone and cartilage that divide the nasal cavity of the nose in half -- is significantly off center, or crooked, making breathing difficult.
Understanding A Deviated Septum. The septum is a thin barrier that is made up of cartilage that separates the two nostrils. Generally the septum is thought to be located midway between the two areas, dividing them equally. A deviated septum occurs when this partition is off-center, shifting prominently to one side
The interventricular septum separates the left ventricle from the right ventricle. The interventricular septum is slanted backwards and to the right, and it also curves to the right, which completes the oval of the thick ventricle and encroaches upon the chamber of the right ventricle. The greater part of it is thick and muscular
The nasal septum separates the left and right airways in the nose, dividing the two nostrils. It is depressed by the depressor septi nasi muscle. 