1 Add sloe gin, regular gin, 1/2 ounce of lemon juice and simple syrup (or sugar) to a cocktail shaker filled half way with ice. 2  Shake vigorously until chilled. 3  Taste then adjust with additional lemon or simple syrup/sugar. 4  Shake. Directions. 1  Add sloe gin, regular gin, 1/2 ounce of lemon juice and simple syrup (or sugar) to a cocktail shaker filled half way with ice. 2  Shake vigorously until chilled.
Sloe gin is a red liqueur made with gin and sloe (blackthorn) drupes, which are a small fruit relative of the plum. Sloe gin has an alcohol content between 15 and 30 percent by volume. However, the European Union has established a minimum of 25% ABV for sloe gin to be named as such. The traditional way of making sloe gin is to soak the sloes in gin. Sugar is required to ensure the sloe juice is extracted from the fruit
Makes: 1 drink. This is a classic, refreshing sparkler made with sloe gin, regular gin, and lemon juice, shaken and topped off with club soda. What to buy: Sloe gin is a red liqueur made from gin infused with sloes (also called blackthorn), a relative of plums. Next Recipe Gin Fizz 26 Saves. Instructions. 1  1 Add the sloe gin, gin, and lemon juice to a cocktail shaker with ice. 2  2 Top off with club soda, and garnish with a lemon slice.
Sloe Gin is not a spirit but a liqueur. It is made with Sloe berries which are from the family of plums. Sloe berries are obtained from the blackthorn bush. It is less alcoholic and sweeter than gin. Gin vs Sloe Gin. Gin is a spirit and Sloe Gin is a liqueur. They might have the word “gin” in common, but their taste, manufacturing, basic ingredients used, and usage are all different. Gin. Gin is basically a spirit; it is transparent like water without any color. The main ingredient of gin is juniper berries.
Sloe gin is made from ripe sloes, which are traditionally picked after the first frost of winter (late October to early November in the northern hemisphere). Each sloe is pricked, traditionally with a thorn taken from the blackthorn bush on which they grow. Sloe gin has an alcohol content between 15 and 30 percent by volume. However, the European Union has established a minimum of 25% ABV for sloe gin to be named as such. The traditional way of making sloe gin is to soak the sloes in gin.
Sloe gin was traditionally drunk in the depths of winter, as a warming drink, until the Americans got a hold of it and summer-ified it with citrus and soda water. Sloe gin is many things-a home-grown British favorite, a triumph of ingenuity, and a forgotten cocktail classic that deserves a second look.
Sloe Gin is generally a type of liqueur with a sweet, red, blackthorn plum or sloe plum flavored gin base. It's used as a base in many of today's popular cocktails, including variations on the Alabama Slammer, Sloe Comfortable Screw and Red Devil. Fill with carbonated water, stir, and serve. 2 oz sloe gin. 1 tsp grenadine syrup. juice of 1/2 lemons. 1 tsp powdered sugar. 1 egg white. carbonated water. Serve in: Highball Glass. Sloe Comfortable Screw #4 recipe. Add the southern comfort to the sloe gin, and fill with orange juice.
How to make Suffolk sloe gin. Intro: This is an old country recipe from Suffolk, England. It was handed down from my neighbour's great aunt, who lived on the Suffolk/Norfolk border. It's not really a recipe, more just a loose set of instructions. 