Goat Island snorkelling-what you need to know. By Jenny Enderby. The best way to see the marine life at Goat Island is by snorkelling. The marine reserve was created in 1975 and was the first in New Zealand. Add to Wishlist. Tweet 0. Jenny Enderby. Written: 7 articles. Author and photographer, scuba diver and experienced snorkelling instructor. 
Goat Island Marine Reserve. Goat Island is New Zealand’s oldest marine reserve, established in 1977. Located on Aukland’s northeast coast, the Goat Island Marine Reserve (GIMR) covers 5.47 km2 of coastal waters, within which all types of fishing is prohibited.
Many divers have dived inside the Goat Island marine reserve, and explored its many fascinating places. Unfortunately, this information was lost, because it was never written down and published, but here is a first record from first-hand experience. 
So much more than a picnic at the beach, a day at Goat Island Marine Reserve is unforgettable. Goat Island, the local name for Cape Rodney/Okakari Point Marine Reserve, was New Zealand's first marine reserve. It was established in 1975 and in less than 10 years it became a rich ecological area, teeming with fish and other sea life. 
As well as being in a marine reserve, Goat Island is a scenic reserve. The University of Auckland has a research facility at Goat Island known as the Leigh Marine Laboratory headed by Professor John Montgomery. This will form the base for the University’s new South Pacific Centre for Marine Science (SPCMS). Goat Island or Te Hāwere-a-Maki is a tiny island (approximately 1 hectare or 2.5 acres) in New Zealand located close to the North Island coast, north of Auckland, northeast of Warkworth, and directly west of Little Barrier Island. It is within Cape Rodney-Okakari Point Marine Reserve, New Zealand's first marine reserve
Cape Rodney-Okakari Point Marine Reserve is New Zealand’s best known fully protected marine reserve. It is often called Goat Island (or Leigh) Marine Reserve. Although it covers just 5 km of coastline, it is visited by over 300,000 people a year (last count many years ago). Marine Discovery Centre (Auckland Marine University). To the right of the beach, cross the one lane bridge and walk up the hill to the Marine Discovery Centre hosting a wealth of information and history about the Goat Island
Snorkel or scuba dive the famous Goat Island Marine Reserve.… Goat Island Marine Discovery Centre 160 Goat Island Road Goat Island's latest attraction is the perfect beginning to a day out in the reserve. State-of-the art displays and the…. 
New Zealand’s first marine reserve, better known as Goat Island was created in 1975 and officially opened in 1977. It covers 518 hectares of coastal sea between Cape Rodney and Okakari Point. It will take you a little over an hour to get here but the drive will be worth it! 
Nature and conservation. View of the beach at the marine reserve. Extending from Cape Rodney to Okakari Point, the marine reserve includes the waters 800 m from shore including Te Hāwere-a-Maki/Goat Island. Snorkeller and blue maomao at Cape Rodey-Okakari Point Marine Reserve. The University of Auckland's Leigh Marine Laboratory is based next to the reserve. 