Answers. Best Answer: Retrolisthesis is the relative posterior displacement of vertebra on the one below it. Retrolisthesis is the result of degenerative disc changes. Indications for surgery are based on severity and duration of symptoms and a neurologic deficit rather than on degree of slip
Retrolisthesis. is the term used to define a degenerative and an acute spine condition in which a single vertebra gets displaced and moves backwards onto the vertebra lying immediately below it. Vertebrae are the bones that make up the spinal column and are separated from each other by cushioning intervertebral discs. Symptoms of Retrolisthesis. include stiffness in the affected area, chronic back pain that may extend to buttocks and thighs or no pain and numbness. This condition may also narrow down the spinal canal size leading to irritation of the spinal nerves.
Retrolisthesis is the exact opposite of an anterolisthesis condition and is sometimes known by the diagnostic term retrospondylolisthesis. This spinal abnormality describes a condition in which one or more vertebral bones move out of alignment with the bones above, and/or below, towards the rear of the body. 
A retrolisthesis is a posterior displacement of one vertebral body with respect to the adjacent vertebrae to a degree less than a luxation (dislocation) . Since the vertebral body in a retrolisthesis moves in a posterior direction, the grading used for spondylolistheses is of little use. It is however useful to divide the anterior to posterior dimension of the intervertebral foramina (IVF) (4) into four equal units.
Save. Retrolisthesis is a problem occuring in the lower back where the vertebra or bone slips backward onto the bone below it. There are several causes for this problem. There are different reasons for this condition in children and adults. 1  Retrolisthesis Treatment. Causes in Children. In children, the most common cause of retrolisthesis is a birth defect. The most likely place for the retrolisthesis is between the fifth vertebra and the sacrum, or the lowest part of the spine.
Retrolisthesis A retrolisthesis is a posterior displacement of one vertebral body with respect to an adjacent vertebrae to a degree less than a luxation. Typically a vertebra is said to be in a retrolisthesis position when it translates (slides) backward with respect to the vertebra below it. See classification below for more detail. If you have been diagnosed with a retrolisthesis, you need to read. the whole of this web page to get a full understanding of your problem and. what to do about it. A retrolisthesis is a posterior displacement of one vertebral body with respect to an adjacent vertebrae to a degree less than a luxation.
A retrolisthesis is an acute, degenerative, or congenital condition in which a vertebra in the spine becomes displaced and moves backward. In most cases, retrolisthesis occurs when a soft disc that separates and cushions vertebrae either deteriorates or ruptures. Arthritis is a leading cause of retrolisthesis in older people, which leads to deterioration of disc tissue. Severe back injuries and congenital spine defects can also result in vertebral slippage.
Clinically speaking, retrolisthesis is the opposite of spondylolisthesis (anterior displacement of one vertebral body on the subjacent vertebral body), and is also called retrospondylolisthesis. Since the vertebral body in a retrolisthesis moves in a posterior direction, the grading used for spondylolistheses is of little use. It is however useful to divide the anterior to posterior dimension of the intervertebral foramina (IVF) (4) into four equal units.
RETROLISTHESIS A retrolisthesis is a posterior displacement of one vertebral body with respect to adjacent vertebrae Typically a vertebra is to be in retrolisthesis position when it translates backward with respect to the vertebra below it. . Classification COMPLETE RETROLISTHESIS: The body of one vertebra is posterior to both the body of the segment of the spine above as well as the segment below. STAIR STEPPED RETROLISTHESIS: The body of one vertebra is posterior to the body of the spinal segment above, but is anterior to the one below.