Ruptured blood vessels can be very painful. Blood vessels can also break due to the effects of injury or trauma. Broken blood vessels may occur without a person having any recollection of trauma. This is often the case for people who bruise easily, for example, in aged people. The skin of the elderly people loses flexibility, and bruises more easily as they age. There are two forms of broken blood vessels. 1  The first is fairly common bruising which can appear like a purplish welt. 2  The other is a blood spot which can appear under the skin and has the appearance of a red spreading of You do not have access to view this node, just under the You do not have access to view this node.
A bruise occurs when broken blood vessels bleed into the tissue beneath the skin, causing local discoloration. The bruise usually occurs as a result of a fall, blow, or knock against a hard surface. Sometimes a person knows exactly how he or she got a bruise, and sometimes the bruise is a complete surprise. Tiny blood vessels near the surface of the skin can burst from a bump, a scrape, or injection-any kind of physical distress. Bruises change color like a mood ring as they mature (from black and blue to green to yellow) and last about one week on the face and two weeks on the body.
The raised area of a bump or bruise results from blood leaking from injured blood vessels into the tissues, such as muscle, as well as from the body's response to the injury. A purplish, flat bruise that occurs when blood leaks out into the top layers of skin is called an ecchymosis. Tiny blood vessels near the surface of the skin can burst from a bump, a scrape, or injection-any kind of physical distress. Bruises change color like a mood ring as they mature (from black and blue to green to yellow) and last about one week on the face and two weeks on the body.
Blood Vessel Hemorrhage Causes Hematoma, Bruise Treatment. Leaking blood out of a vessel is a hemorrhage. Hemorrhages can be internal or external. An external hemorrhage oozes blood on your skin. Whereas, an internal blood vessel hemorrhage is trapped, causing a hematoma. A hematoma is the collection of blood outside a blood vessel. It can happen just about anywhere and your hemorrhaged blood typically gets reabsorbed unless an infection breaks out. A blood vessel hemorrhage causing a hematoma can be spontaneously created, such as with an aneurysm. Yet, more often hematomas come into existence as a result of some type of trauma, as seen with a bruise. Hematomas can be clotted or partially clotted blood under your skin, in an organ or soft tissue
Yes, it is possible. I pop blood vessels quite often, they turn red and burn first and then turn into a big bruise. What happens is when the vessel pops, the blood spreads throughout your skin causing the bruising. I have popped them in my legs and arms but mostly in my fingers and hands. I have popped them just by picking up a spoon. I wasn't able to play volley ball in high school because I kept popping vessels. What does this supposidly popped blood vessel look like. If it looks like a small bruise, than it probably is. If it is some, humongous black and blue area that puts them in an extreme amount of pain than it would be possibly dangerous. But if it is very light colored, than it is most likely nothing.
1 When blood vessels break, bruising occurs. 2  Women bruise more easily than men, especially from minor injuries on the thighs, buttocks, and upper arms. 3  A tendency to bruise easily sometimes runs in families. If you bruise easily, you may not even remember what caused a bruise. Bruising easily does not mean you have a serious health problem, especially if bruising is minimal or only shows up once in a while. 1  Older adults often bruise easily from minor injuries, especially injuries to the forearms, hands, legs, and feet.
Broken blood vessels are caused when a clot forms and makes the blood vessel bulge from the added pressure. As the blood passes by the clot, it causes the blood vessel itself to bulge from the added pressure. Gradually, the vessel is weakened and it breaks. There are two forms of broken blood vessels. 1  The first is fairly common bruising which can appear like a purplish welt. 2  The other is a blood spot which can appear under the skin and has the appearance of a red spreading of You do not have access to view this node, just under the You do not have access to view this node.
A bruise is blood that has extravasated (or migrated) outside the blood vessel because of trauma. Tiny blood vessels near the surface of the skin can burst from a bump, a scrape, or injection-any kind of physical distress. Bruises change color like a mood ring as they mature (from black and blue to green to yellow) and last about one week on the face and two weeks on the body.