This stuff is very sticky and never dries. It seals the concrete and is very hard to break through for an excavation. This concrete box ensures that it will not sink and thus means it does not need to be buried as deep. A typical grave is 4 feet deep, 8 feet long, and 3 feet wide.     To start, we need to remove the sod. Sod is tough and holds together pretty well so we need to lift that up first.
I've heard as shallow as 18 from the top of the outer burial container, to 6' deep. Thank you for your prompt response. Not every state has laws concerning the depth of graves. If you want to check if there are any laws in your state, you might check with the State Health Department. Where there are not state laws (or local ordinance) each cemetery sets its own regulations. The concept of a burial being six feet deep goes back to a time in our history when people were not buried in concrete, metal or fiberglass outer containers and sometimes not even in caskets.
Therefore the grave needs to be deep enough to allow not only for the depth of coffins/caskets that will be buried but also to accommodate legal requirements of undisturbed earth to be between each coffin and the amount of earth that must cover the last interment. I have a lawn grave. 
The excavation that formed the grave. Excavations vary from a shallow scraping, to removal of topsoil to a depth of 6 feet (1.8 metres), or more where a vault or burial chamber is to be constructed. The material dug up when the grave is excavated. It is often piled up close to the grave for backfilling and then returned to the grave to cover it. As soil decompresses when excavated and space is occupied by the burial not all the volume of soil fits back in the hole, so often evidence is found of remaining soil.
A coffin need 4 feet width and 7 feet length and efficient bulldozer/excavator driver will do it in 15 minutes to the 6 feet depth   Answer:   A backhoe or Bobcat is m … ore often the tool of choice for individual graves as the geometry of the finished hole is more adaptable to lowering the coffin. This concrete box ensures that it will not sink and thus means it does not need to be buried as deep. A typical grave is 4 feet deep, 8 feet long, and 3 feet wide.     To start, we need to remove the sod. Sod is tough and holds together pretty well so we need to lift that up first.
This stuff is very sticky and never dries. It seals the concrete and is very hard to break through for an excavation. This concrete box ensures that it will not sink and thus means it does not need to be buried as deep. A typical grave is 4 feet deep, 8 feet long, and 3 feet wide. To start, we need to remove the sod. Sod is tough and holds together pretty well so we need to lift that up first. Think of it as cutting brownies out of a pan.
6 Feet Deep. There is a popular idea that all graves are generally dug 6 feet deep (or 1.8 meters). It is so common that we can see it in many songs, movies, TV Shows, books, poems and so on. Yet, like with many other common assumptions with the funeral industry it is wrong. Basically the top of a coffin has the be at least 900mm (or 2.9 feet) below the surface, this allows for variations in the coffin size and disturbances or erosion of the top soil. How deep the total grave is depends on what the mourners and/or deceased want and the conditions.
This depth was thought deep enough to prevent animals from digging up the grave. Often a grave will be six feet deep at the bottom. Once the casket and outer burial container are in place, this will usually leave. about three feet of dirt on top. Where there are not state laws (or local ordinance) each cemetery sets its own regulations. The concept of a burial being six feet deep goes back to a time in our history when people were not buried in concrete, metal or fiberglass outer containers and sometimes not even in caskets.
The final one, single depth, is actually shallower than 6 feet, being only about 3-4 feet deep. So next time you hear about a grave being 6 feet deep or see one on TV you will know that this is untrue. Like many assumptions people make about the funeral industry it holds no reality or practicality. Basically the top of a coffin has the be at least 900mm (or 2.9 feet) below the surface, this allows for variations in the coffin size and disturbances or erosion of the top soil. How deep the total grave is depends on what the mourners and/or deceased want and the conditions.
When digging a grave for a cat or any other family pet, you must  dig the grave anywhere between three to five feet deep. However, be  sure you also check your local townshi … p laws before burying pets on  your property. A typical grave is 4 feet deep, 8 feet long, and 3 feet wide. To start, we need to remove the sod. Sod is tough and holds together pretty well so we need to lift that up first. Think of it as cutting brownies out of a pan.