Hello. I have read all the quiche questions here and none approached mine. My question is, can quiche be displayed in a glass food warmer how long or should quiche always be displayed cold for any length of time for the public to be reheated later? Reply. Reply. post #2 of 12. 1/2/12 at 6:54am. 
Foods that are left out in room temperature for more than an hour can begin bacteria growth. Our stomach acids can kill some of these bacterias but not all and some can … make you very sick. Keep foods OUT of the danger zone-Above 45 degrees and Below 145 degrees. Between these temperatures bacteria lives and breeds on our foods.
It was stored at room temp. all night. The reason he did this (AGAIN!) is that he has this firm conviction that when you put leftovers in the fridge, you have to let them cool off completely. So they sit on the counter for hours. Food does not have to be cooled to go in the fridge, that's advice from when I was a kid 40 years ago. Food should not be out for more than an hour total from the time it's done cooking.
Fresh-brewed tea can sit at room temperature for up to eight hours if unsweetened. The flavor will begin to sour in sweetened tea after about six hours. The sour taste whi … ch develops is bacteria growth and thus tea that sits too long at room temperature should be avoided. Since it is a custard base, it would be best not to allow it to sit out for more than an hour-total. From the FDA website and a Department of Health source, cooked foods can be left out for up to 4 hours after they are removed from the oven. This is a regulation for restaurants. So the time might be longer at individuals homes. Notice that regulation does not allow for storage of any leftovers
I have a quiche that's been in the fridge 6-7 days. It was store bought (from Whole Foods), frozen and thawed in the fridge. 
Making the world better, one answer at a time. It depends on the type of quiche. If it contains any form of dairy it can be kept unrefrigerated for up to two days, however you should keep it covered. Our stomach acids can kill some of these bacterias but not all and some can … make you very sick. Keep foods OUT of the danger zone-Above 45 degrees and Below 145 degrees. Between these temperatures bacteria lives and breeds on our foods.
How long can you leave eggs (uncracked) out unrefrigerated before they can no longer be eaten? Returning hate for hate multiplies hate, adding deeper darkness to a night already devoid of stars. I know it's dumb but I don't like refrigerated eggs. When the egg bowl is full I put the eggs into cartons and put them in my extra frig in the garage. My four kids come by to get eggs and I give them the eggs out of that frig.
How long can cooked broccoli and cauliflower stay unrefrigerated? Unless it is kept warm (135°F and above), cooked broccoli and cauliflower should be unrefrigerated no longer than 2 hours. Our stomach acids can kill some of these bacterias but not all and some can … make you very sick. Keep foods OUT of the danger zone-Above 45 degrees and Below 145 degrees. Between these temperatures bacteria lives and breeds on our foods.
That includes heat-up and cool-down time -- so for example, if you let t … he turkey sit at room temperature for 30 minutes, then put it in the refrigerator, it will be ok as long as it gets to 40 within an hour and a half (total time under 40 is two hours or less). The same goes for cooked turkey. Since it is a custard base, it would be best not to allow it to sit out for more than an hour-total. From the FDA website and a Department of Health source, cooked foods can be left out for up to 4 hours after they are removed from the oven. This is a regulation for restaurants. So the time might be longer at individuals homes. Notice that regulation does not allow for storage of any leftovers