Definition. A perforated eardrum exists when there is a hole or rupture in the eardrum, the thin membrane that separates the outer ear canal from the middle ear. A perforated eardrum may cause temporary hearing loss and occasional discharge. In addition to conducting sound, the eardrum also protects the middle ear from bacteria. When it is perforated, bacteria can more easily get into this part of the ear, causing ear infections. In general, the larger the hole in the eardrum, the greater the temporary loss of hearing.
A perforated eardrum is a rupture or a tear in the tympanic membrane, which is located between your outer ear and middle ear. Better known as the eardrum, the tympanic membrane vibrates in response to sound waves entering the ear. Your hearing may be muffled or otherwise impaired. A perforated eardrum may be caused by an infection that leads to an accumulation of fluids or pus in your middle or inner ear. Your ear may continue to swell and the eardrum may burst upon experiencing pressure.
Please direct any interview requests or policy questions to our media and public relations staff at newsroom@entnet.org. A hole or rupture in the eardrum, a thin membrane that separates the ear canal and the middle ear, is called a perforated eardrum. The medical term for eardrum is tympanic membrane. 
An eardrum rupture is a small hole or tear in your eardrum, or tympanic membrane. The tympanic membrane is a thin tissue that divides your middle ear and outer ear canal. This membrane vibrates when sound waves enter your ear. The vibration continues through the bones of the middle ear. You hear sounds because of this vibration, so your hearing can suffer if your eardrum is damaged.
A ruptured eardrum is a tear in the thin membrane that separates your outer ear from your inner ear. That membrane, known as the tympanic membrane, is made of tissue that resembles skin. The eardrum serves two important functions in your ear. Another common cause of a ruptured eardrum is poking the eardrum with a foreign object, such as a cotton-tipped swab or a bobby pin that's being used to clean wax out of the ear canal. Sometimes children can puncture their own eardrum by putting objects such as a stick or a small toy in their ear.
A perforated eardrum or punctured eardrum is a rupture or perforation (hole) of the eardrum which can occur as a result of otitis media (ear infection), trauma (e.g. by trying to clean the ear with sharp instruments), explosion, loud noise or surgery (accidental creation of a rupture). 
A number of things can cause the eardrum to rupture; one of the most common causes is an ear infection. When the middle ear is infected, pressure builds up and pushes against the eardrum. When the pressure gets too great, it can cause the eardrum to perforate. Another common cause of a ruptured eardrum is poking the eardrum with a foreign object, such as a cotton-tipped swab or a bobby pin that's being used to clean wax out of the ear canal. Sometimes children can puncture their own eardrum by putting objects such as a stick or a small toy in their ear.
Ruptured eardrum. A ruptured eardrum — or perforated tympanic membrane as it's medically known — is a hole or tear in your eardrum, the thin tissue that separates your ear canal from your middle ear. A ruptured eardrum can result in hearing loss. 
A perforated eardrum is when the thin membrane, called the tympanic membrane or eardrum, that separates the middle ear from the outer ear has a hole or tear in it. There are a number of possible causes, including: 1  An infection in the middle ear. 
A perforated eardrum is a hole or tear in the eardrum. It can be uncomfortable, but usually heals within a few weeks or months provided your ear is kept dry and there’s no infection. The eardrum, also known as the tympanic membrane, is a thin layer of tissue that separates the outer ear from the middle ear. A hole in the eardrum can be caused by: 1  a middle ear infection, if pus builds up inside your ear and puts pressure on your eardrum.