Chordae Tendineae. The chordae tendineae are strong, fibrous strings attached to the leaflets (or cusps) of the heart on the ventricular side; i.e., the lower chamber. These strings originate from small mounds of muscle tissue, the papillary muscles, which project inward from the walls of the ventricle. When the cusps close, the chordae tendineae prevent them from swinging back into the atrium cavity (the upper chamber).
The relaxed chordae tendineae tense up to hold the cusps of the atrioventricular valves in place when they close. This prevents prolapsing of the valve leaflets and blood from regurgitating (flowing backwards) into the upper atrial chambers (the left atrium and right atrium). 
Chordae tendineae. The chordae tendineae, as their Latin name suggests, are tendinous cords found in the right and left ventricles of the heart. These chordae tendineae connect the papillary muscles to the leaflets of the atrioventricular (AV) valves. The vernacular term for these structures is heart strings. The chordae tendineae are part of a larger complex of interacting anatomical structures that include the fibrous skeleton of the heart, the fibrous core of the AV valves, the chordae tendineae, the papillary muscles, and the complex fibrous internal structure of the papillary muscles and the ventricular wall.
chorda. a cord or sinew. adj., adj chor´dal. chorda mag´na Achilles tendon. chor´dae tendi´neae tendinous cords connecting the two atrioventricular valves to the appropriate papillary muscles in the heart ventricles. Chordae tendineae of the posterior cusps of atrioventricular valves in a cross-section of the heart. 1 Chordae chordæ. 2  tendineae tendineæ (chordae). 3  tendineae cordis (chordae tendineae). 4  of heart chordae. 5  tendineae cordis chordae. 6  tendineae cordis chordae. 7  tendineae falsae chordae tendineae. 8  of heart chordae. 9  tendineae spuriae. 10  chordae willisii.
Chordae tendineae. The chordae tendineae, or heart strings, are cord-like tendons that connect the papillary muscles to the tricuspid valve and the mitral valve in the heart. Chordae tendineae are approximately 80% collagen, while the remaining 20% is made up of elastin and endothelial cells. Chordae Tendineae. The tendinous cords that connect each cusp of the two atrioventricular HEART VALVES to appropriate PAPILLARY MUSCLES in the HEART VENTRICLES, preventing the valves from reversing themselves when the ventricles contract.
Chordae tendineae: Thread-like bands of fibrous tissue which attach on one end to the edges of the tricuspid and mitral valves of the heart and on the other end to the papillary muscles, small muscles within the heart that serve to anchor the valves. 
The chordae tendineae (tendinous chords) , or heart strings, are cord-like tendons that connect the papillary muscles to the tricuspid valve and the mitral valve in the heart. Chordae tendineae are approximately 80% collagen, while the remaining 20% is made up of elastin and endothelial cells.
During atrial systole, blood flows from the atria to the ventricles down the pressure gradient. Chordae tendineae are relaxed because the atrioventricular valves are forced open. When the ventricles of the heart contract in ventricular systole, the increased blood pressures in both chambers push the AV valves to close simultaneously, preventing backflow of blood into the atria. Chordae tendineae are approximately 80% collagen, while the remaining 20% is made up of elastin and endothelial cells.