Grammar · Gender of nouns · Genre des noms [edit]. In French, all nouns have a grammatical gender; that is, they are either masculine (m) or feminine (f). Most nouns that express people or animals have both a masculine and a feminine form. For example, the two words for the actor in French are l'acteur and l'actrice. However, there are some nouns that talk about people or animals whose gender is fixed, regardless of the actual gender of the person or animal.
Le is used for masculine nouns, La is used for feminine nouns, Les is used for plural nouns (both masculine or feminine), and L' is used when the noun is singular and begins with a vowel or silent h (both masculine or feminine). Most nouns that express people or animals have both a masculine and a feminine form. For example, the two words for the actor in French are l'acteur and l'actrice. However, there are some nouns that talk about people or animals whose gender is fixed, regardless of the actual gender of the person or animal.
Gender of nouns. In French, all nouns have a grammatical gender; that is, they are either masculin (m) or feminin (f). Most nouns that express people or animals have both a masculine and a feminine form. For example, the two words for “the actor” in French are l’acteur (m) and l’actrice (f). The two words for “the cat” are le chat (m) and la chatte (f). There are even words that are spelled the same, but have a different meaning when masculine or feminine; for example, le livre (m) means the book, but la livre (f) means the pound ! Some words that appear to be masculine (like le photo, which is actually short for la photographie) are in fact feminine, and vice versa.
This does not mean that a noun that begins with a vowel is neither masculine nor feminine, but simply that there is no distinctive mark of gender present in the definite article preceding it. Plural. 'les' occurs in front of French plural nouns: 
- masculine: ami, amis; - feminine: amie, amies. The pronounciation is the same (ah-mee) in every form. Use the masculine or feminine pronoun, il or elle, resp … ectively, depending upon the gender of the antecedent. Where the gender of the antecedent is not specified, use the masculine form il. Neither.
Essentially, each noun in French has a gender, either masculine (think 'male') or feminine ('female'). Attached to nouns are articles that will take different forms according to gender. Adjectives will take a gender (and form) corresponding to the noun they qualify. A table, a car, a house or a chair are all feminine in French (une table, une voiture, une maison, une chaise). A wall, an airplane, a day, the Sun are masculine (un mur, un avion, un jour, le Soleil). There is no clear reason to pick one over the other.
Like English nouns, nearly all French nouns have different forms for singular and plural. In addition, many French nouns that refer to people and animals have both a masculine and a feminine form, which means there can be up to four forms of each noun. The different forms for nouns depend mostly on the final letter(s) of the default form of the noun, which is the masculine singular. Most French nouns add E for feminine and S for plural. This rule applies to nouns that end in most consonants as well as all vowels except the unaccented E: Noun: avocat (lawyer)
There is no word in French for the neuter pronoun it because French grammar knows only masculine and feminine gender. Use the masculine or feminine pronoun, il or elle, resp … ectively, depending upon the gender of the antecedent. Where the gender of the antecedent is not specified, use the masculine form il. Neither. Only the nouns-and their related adjectives-are masculine and feminine in French