Weaning occurs by the age of 21 days. A pair of gerbils can produce a new litter every 30 to 40 days, for a total of 6 or 7 litters during their reproductive lives. The female gerbil is reproductively active until she is about 18 months of age. Males may continue to be fertile until they are about 24 months of age. 
Breeding & Mating. Gerbils are ready to mate at an early age but for best results they should be at least three months old. Females can produce offspring until about two years old. To begin breeding, introduce your male and female to each other gradually if they are not already sharing a cage.
Babies!! Now, a first thing to do is to take a big breath and think about the situation! This can be a great experience to raise gerbil pups you know. Read the section about breeding and don't worry, your gerbils know what to do! But if you don't want this to happen again next month, chose the option that agrees to you. Visit also the page: Babies only once. You really don't want this to happen again.
Get your gerbils. Buy a pair of young gerbils. If you buy one gerbil it will be more work, in particular since there is less entertainment, so consider getting two. The younger the gerbil is, the more success you are likely to have taming your gerbils. 1  Don’t get a gerbil under 5 weeks of age to help ensure that they’ve had enough time with their mother and are healthy. 2  Buy your gerbils from a reputable breeder if possible. 1 Gerbils of any age respond to taming. 2  If your gerbil is older, it’s important to not be discouraged if he takes longer to tame. 3  You can tame him as soon as he joins your family. 4  Just know that it may take a little more time, effort, and patience on your part.
Once you have your male and female gerbil, you will have to introduce them to one another. If they are babies (6-8 weeks) and the female is the same size or smaller, you might try a direct introduction. One pair of gerbils can have a litter every thirty days, or twelve litters a year. A litter can be from one to eight babies, if each litter consists of four babies that would be forty-eight pups a year. Two mating pair would produce ninety-six pups or more a year.
For two Gerbils a 10-gallon tank should suffice. For each additional gerbil, the tank should be 5 gallons larger. Fill up a third of the tank with a substrate like Megazorb, Finacard, Carefresh or Bedexcel that the gerbils can dig in. Sufficient room to burrow is necessary to keep your gerbils active and entertained.
The treat-in-hand is also a good way for baby gerbils to learn that they can safely eat in your hand, and will often take treats from your fingers only after a few days or weeks of picking up treats off your hand. If your gerbil refuses at first to take a treat, place a second treat in your hand nearby. 
Your gerbils will most likely mate at about three months of age. If one of the pair is older and especially if one is an experienced breeder, mating is likely to occur within a couple of weeks. Gerbils usually mate in the early evening and it is a two hour ritual of chase, tag, and each checking their undersides. One pair of gerbils can have a litter every thirty days, or twelve litters a year. A litter can be from one to eight babies, if each litter consists of four babies that would be forty-eight pups a year. Two mating pair would produce ninety-six pups or more a year.
This site shows gerbils mating. A female gerbil will produce pups until she is two years old. A male gerbil will produce babies throughout his lifetime. If this is a first litter or your gerbils are not raising/nursing pups when they mate, the gestation will be 24 days. One pair of gerbils can have a litter every thirty days, or twelve litters a year. A litter can be from one to eight babies, if each litter consists of four babies that would be forty-eight pups a year. Two mating pair would produce ninety-six pups or more a year.
There will be two bumps, the urethra and anus. On a female the two will be close together. On a male there will be a space of about 1/2 inch between them and you should also be able to see the bulge from his scrotum. For baby gerbils, after they are a week old you can sex them. If the gerbil has nipples, it is female. The nipples look like little dents or circles in the skin. Gerbils are ready to mate at an early age but for best results they should be at least three months old. Females can produce offspring until about two years old. To begin breeding, introduce your male and female to each other gradually if they are not already sharing a cage.