The point of this is that, in fact, not all Italians are dark. In fact, the term Italian, as we use and know it today, is primarily a geopolitical designation, although it carries some ethnic and linguistic connotations also. Italy is the name of a peninsula. Italy as a political entity goes back only to 1861. Arab Contributions. Additional ethnic strains added to the vibrant variation in the Italian genetic stream. Some were darker toned in color. There were Arab colonies in the Italic peninsula and islands off Italy were ruled by Arabs for centuries.
Italian Americans are the fourth largest European ethnic group in the United States (not including American ethnicity, an ethnonym used by many in the United States; overall, Italian Americans rank seventh, behind German American, Irish American, African American, English American, American, and Mexican American). The Italian-American communities have often been characterized by strong ties with family, the Catholic Church, fraternal organizations and political parties. Today, over 17 million Americans claim Italian ancestry, third only to Brazil with 31 million, and Argentina, which has 24 million people with Italian roots.
Over 80 million people of full or partial Italian descent live outside of Europe, with nearly 40 million living in Latin America (primarily Brazil, Argentina, Venezuela, Mexico, and Uruguay), about 18 million living in North America (United States and Canada) and a million in Australia. Swiss-Italian also refers to the Italian speaking population in this region (southern Switzerland) close to the border with Italy. Swiss Italian dialects are spoken in emigrant communities around the world, including
The Italian American (Italian: italoamericani [ˌitalo.ameriˈkaːni]) ethnic group comprises Americans who have full or partial ancestry from Italy, especially those who identify with that ancestry, along with their cultural characteristics. The Italian-American communities have often been characterized by strong ties with family, the Catholic Church, fraternal organizations and political parties. Today, over 17 million Americans claim Italian ancestry, third only to Brazil with 31 million, and Argentina, which has 24 million people with Italian roots.
Italy is a fascinating country for population geneticists and historians alike. As Metternich said in 1847 Italy is only a geographical expression. The peninsula was unified by Piedmont two decades later, but Metternich's remark still largely holds true today. In the 4th and 5th centuries the cooling of the climate prompted Germanic and Slavic tribes to migrate south and west and to invade the Roman Empire in search of more fertile lands. Germanic people brought haplogroups I1, I2a2a (M223, formerly known as I2b1), R1b-U106 and R1a (L664, Z282 and Z283 subclades) to Italy.
Ethnicity vs Nationality. Where nationality means one’s country of origin, ethnicity refers to racial ancestry. To make it clearer, a person born in India and living in the US, will only have an Indian nationality, and not an American nationality. If a person from an Italian family was born in Greece, then that person would have an Italian ethnicity, and not a Greek ethnicity. Nationality is a word that pertains to the state of origin. Nationality can be defined as the relationship between a person and his or her state of origin. Nationality means a state of origin in one is born. Every ethnicity belongs to a race, the races of the world being, Latin, caucation, African and Asian, which nationality just means where your born. The reason nationality and ethnicity are synonyms to each other is because the usage of the word nationailty.
Italians (Italian: italiani) are a nation and ethnic group native to Italy who share a common Italian culture, ancestry and speak the Italian language as a mother tongue. Swiss-Italian also refers to the Italian speaking population in this region (southern Switzerland) close to the border with Italy. Swiss Italian dialects are spoken in emigrant communities around the world, including in Australia.
Italians have greatly influenced and contributed to science, arts, technology, cuisine, sports, jurisprudence and banking both abroad and worldwide. Italian people are generally known for their localism, both regionalist and municipalist, attention to clothing and family values. Swiss-Italian also refers to the Italian speaking population in this region (southern Switzerland) close to the border with Italy. Swiss Italian dialects are spoken in emigrant communities around the world, including in Australia.
For years Italian-American organizations had called for an Italian-American appointment to the Supreme Court. By 2006 there were two Italian-Americans on the Supreme Court, Antonin Scalia and Samuel Alito, both conservatives. Progressive Italian Americans like myself were not dancing in the streets bursting with pride. 
In 2014, in addition to about 55 million Italians in Italy (91.00% of Italian population), Italian-speaking autonomous groups are found in neighboring countries: about half a million in Switzerland, a large population in France, and smaller groups in Slovenia and Croatia, primarily in Istria and Dalmatia. Swiss-Italian also refers to the Italian speaking population in this region (southern Switzerland) close to the border with Italy. Swiss Italian dialects are spoken in emigrant communities around the world, including in Australia.