3 Effient is used to lower your chance of having another serious problem with your heart or blood vessels, such as another heart attack, a stroke, blood clots in your stent, or death.Platelets are blood cells that help with normal blood clotting.
Before taking prasugrel, 1  tell your doctor and pharmacist if you are allergic to prasugrel, any other medications, or any of the ingredients in prasugrel tablets. 2  Ask your pharmacist for a list of the ingredients.
Do not take Effient if you currently have abnormal bleeding, such as stomach or intestinal bleeding, bleeding in your head, or have a history of stroke, or “mini-stroke” (also known as transient ischemic attack or TIA), or if you are allergic to prasugrel or any of the ingredients in Effient.
Inactive Ingredients: mannitol, hypromellose, croscarmellose sodium, microcrystalline cellulose, and vegetable magnesium stearate. The color coatings contain lactose, hypromellose, titanium dioxide, triacetin, iron oxide yellow, and iron oxide red (only in Effient 10 mg tablet).
EFFIENT. (prasugrel). WARNING. BLEEDING RISK. 1  Effient can cause significant, sometimes fatal, bleeding [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS and ADVERSE REACTIONS]. 2  Do not use Effient in patients with active pathological bleeding or a history of transient ischemic attack or stroke [see CONTRAINDICATIONS].
1 Effient can cause significant, sometimes fatal, bleeding [see WARNINGS AND PRECAUTIONS and ADVERSE REACTIONS]. 2  Do not use Effient in patients with active pathological bleeding or a history of transient ischemic attack or stroke [see CONTRAINDICATIONS].
Do not take Effient if you currently have abnormal bleeding, such as stomach or intestinal bleeding, bleeding in your head, or have a history of stroke, or “mini-stroke” (also known as transient ischemic attack or TIA), or if you are allergic to prasugrel or any of the ingredients in Effient.
Precautions. Before taking prasugrel, tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are allergic to it; or to similar antiplatelet drugs (thienopyridines such as clopidogrel); or if you have any other allergies. This product may contain inactive ingredients, which can cause allergic reactions or other problems.