Food, Shelter & Comfort. The cost to feed a dog for a month in an animal shelter can range greatly based on the resources of the shelter, but a general ballpark estimate is round $40-$60. This does not include special diets for dogs that need weight loss food or dog food for specific digestive needs. Lyme disease and heartworm tests are also another cost the shelter will incur to ensure that your dog is in good health. If a dog tests positive, Lyme disease treatment can cost anywhere from $20-$100 depending on the size of the dog.
Kelly Giffear and Brittany Scott projected yearly costs for raising small, medium, large and giant breeds. The average cost for the first year of raising small dogs was $2674; medium dogs on the average cost $2889; the cost for large dogs is $3239 and giant breeds such as Great Danes have an annual cost of $3536. The average first year cost across all sizes was $3085. Veterinary costs were $650 per year and included all lab work plus are for one serious illness per year was added into the figures. According to Giffear and Scott, the average lifetime cost of raising a dog is $23,410.
1 A basic dog boarding facility -- which usually has indoor kennels with cement floors attached to outdoor runs enclosed by chain-link fencing -- usually costs $12 to $26 per day. 1 Many boarding facilities charge by weight or size -- as much as 50 percent more for a dog that weighs more than 80 pounds or requires a large suite.
How much does a small dog cost? puppies can range in the price from $500 to $1,000 depending on the store you go to and the type of dog, but no matter what, i can tell you that they are not cheap. The cost of getting a microchip for your dog or cat is about $45. It's a one-time fee and there is a much higher chance of your dog getting found again. Your dog is family and … you can't put a price on the safety of your dog.
Anything from 10 to 25 a night per dog in a kennel. I pay 15 per night at the kennel I use but by putting three into one large kennel I get a reduction. So you are looking at 100+ per week and the cost of kennel cough vaccine three weeks before admission and they will need proof of vaccinations being up to date. Watch the timings as if you are late collecting they charge another day
1 Many boarding facilities charge extra for a bath at the end of the stay -- about $7 and up. 2  Many facilities offer grooming and training services. 3  Many facilities charge $2 or more extra per dose for administering medication. 4  Some boarding facilities require additional vaccinations, usually for kennel cough. 1 Many boarding facilities charge by weight or size -- as much as 50 percent more for a dog that weighs more than 80 pounds or requires a large suite.
1 A very high-end boarding facility, such as a dog retreat with home-like private bungalows or an urban dog hotel -- with amenities such as rugs, real furniture, art, plasma televisions and premium food -- usually costs $40 to $110 per day. 1 Many boarding facilities charge by weight or size -- as much as 50 percent more for a dog that weighs more than 80 pounds or requires a large suite.
Dog Kennel Cost. 1  A basic dog boarding facility -- which usually has indoor kennels with cement floors attached to outdoor runs enclosed by chain-link fencing -- usually costs $12 to $26 per day. 1 Many boarding facilities charge by weight or size -- as much as 50 percent more for a dog that weighs more than 80 pounds or requires a large suite.
1 On average, plan on spending $10 to $30 per day for a lower-end boarding company while a higher-class “resort” can cost upwards of $45 to $65 per day. 2  For example, the popular pet store chain PetSmart offers a service called “Pets Hotel.” Here, the prices can range anywhere from $25 to $100 per night. 1 PetParadiseResort.com, a pet resort franchise primarily located on the southwest side of the United States, can charge anywhere from $24 to as much as $46 per night. 2  Again, it is going to come down to the type of suite you want for your dog.
The hard facts are that the cost of owning a dog is an extremely important consideration for a number of often overlooked reasons. The first concerns the purchase price of the dog. Many people balk at paying $500 to $1000 for a dog. They rationalize that they simply can not afford it and settle for a poorly bred $150 puppy instead. What a huge mistake. The cost of a guaranteed healthy, well-bred $1000 puppy is a fraction of what it will cost to own that dog for 12 years. A poorly bred dog with bad hips, allergies, and a not so bright disposition will end up costing you thousands more in medical bills not to mention hours of frustration and disappointment. Most pet owners calculate the price of the food and add it to the cost of the dog and figure that they can afford it regardless of their budget. The reality is that very few people have any idea how much owning a dog really costs and grossly underestimate it.