Phenylephrine is a selective α1-adrenergic receptor agonist of the phenethylamine class used primarily as a decongestant, as an agent to dilate the pupil, and to increase blood pressure. Phenylephrine is used as an alternative for pseudoephedrine in decongestant medicines due to pseudoephedrine's use in the illicit manufacture of methamphetamine. Its efficacy as an oral decongestant has been questioned, with multiple studies not being able to come to an agreement.
Other decongestants include oxymetazoline and pseudoephedrine. Phenylephrine is used as an alternative for pseudoephedrine in decongestant medicines due to pseudoephedrine's use in the illicit manufacture of methamphetamine. Its efficacy as an oral decongestant has been questioned, with multiple studies not being able to come to an agreement.
Descriptions. Phenylephrine is used for the temporary relief of congestion or stuffiness in the nose caused by hay fever or other allergies, colds, or sinus trouble. It may also be used in ear infections to relieve congestion.
×. Phenylephrine is used for the temporary relief of stuffy nose, sinus, and ear symptoms caused by the common cold, flu, allergies, or other breathing illnesses (e.g., sinusitis, bronchitis). How to use phenylephrine. If you are using the over-the-counter product, read and follow all directions on the product package before taking this medication. Take this medication by mouth with or without food or as directed by your doctor.
Phenylephrine is used as a decongestant sold as an oral medicine or as a nasal spray. It is a common ingredient in over-the-counter decongestants. Phenylephrine is used as an alternative for pseudoephedrine in decongestant medicines due to pseudoephedrine's use in the illicit manufacture of methamphetamine. Its efficacy as an oral decongestant has been questioned, with multiple studies not being able to come to an agreement.
Answer. Both pseudoephedrine and phenylephrine are decongestants used to treat nasal congestion due to allergies, colds, sinus infections, etc. Since pseudoephedrine can be made into methamphetamine, the U.S. Senate passed a bill restricting its sale. 
Phenylephrine is a nasal decongestant that provides relief from nasal discomfort caused by colds, allergies, and hay fever. It works by reducing swelling of the blood vessels in the nose. Phenylephrine relieves symptoms but doesn’t treat the cause of the symptoms or speed recovery. It’s the active ingredient in dozens of generic products, including children’s cough medications and over-the-counter (OTC) drugs.
Phenylephrine cream (which contains other active ingredients as well) is used to treat hemorrhoids. Phenylephrine works by stimulating certain receptors known as alpha-adrenergic receptors. In the blood vessels of the body, this action causes an increase in blood pressure, which is why the medication is used in emergency situations to increase dangerously low blood pressure. In the eye, phenylephrine causes dilation of the pupil, constriction of the blood vessels, and a decongestant action.
Phenylephrine is used to relieve nasal discomfort caused by colds, allergies, and hay fever. It is also used to relieve sinus congestion and pressure. Phenylephrine will relieve symptoms but will not treat the cause of the symptoms or speed recovery. Phenylephrine is in a class of medications called nasal decongestants. It works by reducing swelling of the blood vessels in the nasal passages.
Uses. Phenylephrine is used for the temporary relief of stuffy nose, sinus, and ear symptoms caused by the common cold, flu, allergies, or other breathing illnesses (e.g., sinusitis, bronchitis). How to use phenylephrine. If you are using the over-the-counter product, read and follow all directions on the product package before taking this medication. Take this medication by mouth with or without food or as directed by your doctor.