As a new resident of Maryland you must register your vehicle within 60 days of moving to Maryland. If you delay beyond 60 days, you will not be eligible for a tax credit for any titling tax paid in another state, and you may be subject to a citation for an out of state registration. 
Best Answer: Depends on the state. I have lived in three states and registered cars in each one when I lived there. New Hampshire got it back to me in about 10 days, I guess because it is such a small state. Illinois took about 2 months. Texas was in between, about 4 weeks.
Recently moved from Ohio to Minnesota. I have been waiting 11 weeks to get my new title. I called this morning I was told to expect to wait at least another 3 weeks. As of A … ugust 6, 2012 if you do not pay the extra $20 for the fast track service, it is taking a minimum of 4 months to receive your title back. The fast track service takes 3-10 days. It appears that every 30 days the wait is increasing by 1 week. MNDOT says this is due to old technology and a shortage of workers.
Report Abuse. This will vary from state to state. Usually it takes from three to four weeks to get a title back but it can take longer depending on how backed-up the state is in getting the titles made and sent out. Figure at least 4 weeks and hope for a couple of weeks
Figure anywhere from 3 weeks to 8 weeks average. Assuming they even have the title it has to go to DMV, many times passing thru a title subcontractor. DMV is pretty understaffed and under motivated. I'm sure lots of car are sold before the dealer has the title in his possession. Another time, I bought a car from an independent dealer and it took 3 weeks to get the title. They said something about they didn't have the title. I was real nervous about that one because they were kind of shady. They cashed the check real fast
I have been waiting 11 weeks to get my new title. I called this morning I was told to expect to wait at least another 3 weeks. As of A … ugust 6, 2012 if you do not pay the extra $20 for the fast track service, it is taking a minimum of 4 months to receive your title back. The fast track service takes 3-10 days.
Best Answer: In my state, its 2-5 weeks after the STATE gets it. So figure a week for them to get it and you are looking at 3-6 weeks. If you bought from a dealer, it might take him a month to send it in which will delay things. Previous title in another state shouldnt matter. This will vary from state to state. Usually it takes from three to four weeks to get a title back but it can take longer depending on how backed-up the state is in getting the titles made and sent out. Figure at least 4 weeks and hope for a couple of weeks
Report Abuse. It depends on the lender. When I sold my car it took me 30 minutes. I went to the bank and sat there and waited for them to go get it. If you have to mail away and wait for them it may take up to a month or longer. mccoyblues · 5 years ago. New Hampshire got it back to me in about 10 days, I guess because it is such a small state. Illinois took about 2 months. Texas was in between, about 4 weeks.