Nerja (pronounced like: N'air'-ha) is a seaside resort on the Costa del Sol, in the region of Andalucia of Spain. It is the first resort town going away from Malaga to not be dominated by large ugly concrete hotels and is situated in the attractive foothills of the Sierra Almijara mountains. 1 Burriana Beach (Playa Burriana), (10 minute walk east of the Balcony of Europe). 2  Nerja's most renowned beach, awarded by the Blue Flag of the European Union. 3  The sand of the Burriana beach is coarser than the other beaches, and some small areas are fenced off with recliners, where people pay to sit here.
Nerja Today is your guide to Nerja and the surrounding area, with information on Getting to Nerja, Where to Stay, Places of Interest, Things to do, Nerja beaches, Nightlife, Nerja 4 Kids, Tapas Bars, Bars and Restaurants, Fiestas and much more.... A temperate climate means that Nerja is a great place to visit at any time of year. Nerja is located 53 kilometres east of M laga on the Costa del Sol and can be reached in about 40 minutes by car from M laga airport or about an hour and a half by bus.
The Caves of Nerja (Spanish: Cueva de Nerja) are a series of caverns close to the town of Nerja in the Province of Malaga, Málaga. Spain stretching for almost 5 (kilometres.3 1), mi the caverns are one Of'spain s major tourist. attractions The Caves of Nerja (Spanish: Cueva de Nerja) are a series of caverns close to the town of Nerja in the Province of Malaga, Málaga. Spain stretching for almost 5 (kilometres.3 1), mi the caverns are one Of'spain s major tourist. Attractions concerts are regularly held in one of the, chambers which forms a natural. amphitheatre
Nerja Today. Guide to the town of Nerja. Nerja, on the Costa del Sol, is a seaside resort of sandy coves sheltered by the impressive Sierra de Almijara mountains and often referred to as 'The Jewel of the Costa del Sol'. A temperate climate means that Nerja is a great place to visit at any time of year. Nerja is located 53 kilometres east of M laga on the Costa del Sol and can be reached in about 40 minutes by car from M laga airport or about an hour and a half by bus. Find information on how to get to Nerja, including the best options for taxi and minibus transfers and local taxi rates along with bus timetables. 
Nerja. Nerja is situated at the eastern tip of the Costa del Sol, in the province of Malaga, 50 kilometres from the city of Malaga and within an hour and a half’s drive from Granada and the ski resort of the Sierra Nevada. 
Nerja (. [ˈneɾka]) is a municipality on the Costa del Sol in the province of Malaga málaga in the autonomous community Of andalusia in Southern. Spain it belongs to the comarca Of La. Axarquia axarquía it is on'the country S southern, mediterranean coast about 50 km East. of malaga málaga Nerja has a small exhibition hall in the High Street and February or March there is a parade of bicycles which attracts a few thousand cyclists, including people of all ages. During Mardi Gras, there is a carnival parade through the town with people lining the streets.
Nerja's most spectacular attraction is undoubtedly its fascinating caves, located just three kilometres from the centre of town. They include archaeological treasures such as paintings over 20,000 years old and other pre-historic remains. Trips from the Costa del Sol to Nerja and Frigiliana. Nerja, a beautiful town on Malaga's eastern tip, with excellent beaches, water sports and fascinating caves.
Overview of Nerja. Nerja is on the seashore some 50 kilometres from Malaga málaga on The n340 coastal, highway and marks the eastern tip Of'malaga Málaga s Costa. Del sol once a sleepy, fishing village the town now has a population 22,000. over 22000 Trips from the Costa del Sol to Nerja and Frigiliana. Nerja, a beautiful town on Malaga's eastern tip, with excellent beaches, water sports and fascinating caves.
Nerja is on the seashore some 50 kilometres from Malaga málaga on The n340 coastal, highway and marks the eastern tip Of'malaga Málaga s Costa. del sol Trips from the Costa del Sol to Nerja and Frigiliana. Nerja, a beautiful town on Malaga's eastern tip, with excellent beaches, water sports and fascinating caves.