Axes. An axis is a straight line around which an object rotates. Movement at the joint take place in a plane about an axis. There are three axis of rotation. 1  Sagital axis-passes horizontally from posterior to anterior and is formed by the intersection of the sagital and transverse planes.
For the planes of a gear, see List of gear nomenclature. The transverse plane (also called the horizontal plane, axial plane, or transaxial plane) is an imaginary plane that divides the body into superior and inferior parts. It is perpendicular to the coronal and sagittal planes. It is one of the planes of the body used to describe the location of body parts in relation to each other. The other two commonly used terms are the coronal plane and the sagittal plane.
The transverse plane (also called the horizontal plane, axial plane, or transaxial plane) is an imaginary plane that divides the body into superior and inferior parts. It is one of the planes of the body used to describe the location of body parts in relation to each other. The other two commonly used terms are the coronal plane and the sagittal plane.
Your body can move in three distinct planes of motion: the sagittal plane, the frontal plane and the transverse plane. To get a comprehensive workout for your body, you should include exercises that move through each plane of motion. 
1 A transverse plane, also known as an axial plane or cross-section, divides the body into cranial (head) and caudal (tail) portions. 2  It is parallel to the ground, which (in humans) separates the superior from the inferior, or put another way, the head from the feet. Movement at the joint take place in a plane about an axis. There are three axis of rotation. 1  Sagital axis-passes horizontally from posterior to anterior and is formed by the intersection of the sagital and transverse planes.
The transverse axis, also known as the frontal or mediolateral axis, is perpendicular to the sagittal plane. In other words, the sagittal plane rotates about the transverse axis. A somersault is an example of movement about the transverse axis. The anteroposterior axis can also be called the sagittal axis. Frontal plane rotation occurs about the anteroposterior axis. Examples include jumping jacks and cartwheels
transverse plane, any one of the planes cutting across the body perpendicular to the sagittal and the frontal planes (at right angles to the long axis of the body), dividing the body into superior and inferior parts. Also called cardinal horizontal plane. Compare frontal plane, median plane, sagittal plane. a vertical plane through the body parallel to the median plane (or to the sagittal suture) and dividing the body into left and right portions. transverse plane. one passing through the body, at right angles to the sagittal and dorsal planes, and dividing the body into cranial and caudal portions.
a plane across the body at right angles to the coronal and sagittal planes; transverse planes are perpendicular to the long axis of the body or limbs, regardless of the position of the body or limb; in the anatomic position, transverse planes are horizontal planes; otherwise the two terms are not synonymous. a vertical plane through the body parallel to the median plane (or to the sagittal suture) and dividing the body into left and right portions. transverse plane. one passing through the body, at right angles to the sagittal and dorsal planes, and dividing the body into cranial and caudal portions.
1 Transverse Planeo The Y-axis is perpendicular to the transverse plane. 2  Therefore a point which rotates around the Y-axis will move in the transverse plane.o Essentially, movement in a given plane takes place Y-axis around the axis that is perpendicular to that plane. 3  25. 
1 A coronal or frontal plane is perpendicular to the ground and divides the body into dorsal (posterior or back) and ventral (anterior or front) portions. 2  A transverse plane, also known as an axial plane or cross-section, divides the body into cranial (head) and caudal (tail) portions. Movement at the joint take place in a plane about an axis. There are three axis of rotation. 1  Sagital axis-passes horizontally from posterior to anterior and is formed by the intersection of the sagital and transverse planes.