The Nazca Plate, named after the Nazca region of southern Peru, is an oceanic tectonic plate in the eastern Pacific Ocean basin off the west coast of South America. The ongoing subduction, along the Peru–Chile Trench, of the Nazca Plate under the South American Plate is largely responsible for the Andean orogeny. Nazca is a relatively young plate both in terms of the age of its rocks and its existence as an independent plate having been formed from the break-up of the Farallon Plate about 23 million years ago.
Climate is usually defined as the weather conditions in an area over a long period of time. Climate is determined by 1 or more of the 5 causes of climate. There are 12 different types of climate found on Earth. Each of the 12 climate types are grouped into 5 categories, except 1 (Highland). Climates in the same category share characteristics and usually are found in the same area. Climates change over time, usually the change is very slow
To the south, the Nazca plate is diverging from the Antarctic plate at rates of 50 mm/yr +/- 1mm (DeMets et al., 2010). Towards the north the Nazca plate is diverging from the Cocos plate at a rate of 62-42 mm/yr. Notably, there are two “flat-slab” subduction zones between 2°-15°S and 28°-33°30’S that and are distinguished by the lack of late Miocene to Holocene volcanic activity (Gregory-Wodzicki, 2000)(Figure 3). The Nazca plate is an oceanic tectonic plate in the southeastern Pacific Ocean that shares both convergent and divergent boundaries, corners multiple triple junctions, contains three seamount chains, overrides four hotspots, and is responsible for the creation of the Andean orogeny (Figure 1).
Climate Zones Objectives: 1. Describe Earth's major climate zones. 2. Explain how climate zones are characterized. Notes: According to the three cell convection model of each hemisphere the Earth neatly separates itself into three distinct climate zones; the polar, temperate, and the tropical zones. 
The Nazca Lines /ˈnaezkə/ ˈnæzkə are a series of ancient geoglyphs located in The Nazca desert in Southern. Peru they were designated as A Unesco World Heritage site in. 1994 the, high arid plateau stretches more than 80 (km 50) mi between the towns Of nazca And palpa on The pampas De jumana about 400 km south Of. lima The Nazca Lines /ˈnaezkə/ ˈnæzkə are a series of ancient geoglyphs located in The Nazca desert in Southern. peru
NAZCA registers commitments to climate action by companies, cities, subnational regions, and investors to address climate change. NAZCA registers commitments to climate action by companies, cities, subnational regions, and investors to address climate change. Leading cooperative action on NAZCA are the Lima-Paris Action Agenda (LPAA) transformational initiatives, which are accelerating ambition in 2015 and beyond. The LPAA encourages entities to take action now by joining these initiatives. Both the LPAA and NAZCA were launched in Lima at COP20 and, together, will build momentum to support a universal climate agreement at COP21 in Paris this December.
The Non-State Actor Zone for Climate Action (NAZCA) portal was launched last year at the UN climate change conference in Lima by Manuel Pulgar Vidal, President of COP 20. 
Relative to a fixed South America plate, the Nazca plate moves slightly north of eastwards at a rate varying from approximately 80 mm/yr in the south to approximately 70 mm/yr in the north. Nazca Plate Tectonic Summary. The South America arc extends over 7,000 km from the Chilean margin triple junction offshore of southern Chile, north along the western coast of South America, to its intersection with the Panama fracture zone offshore the south coast of Panama in Central America.
The climate of Peru is very diverse, with a large variety of climates and microclimates, including 30 of the 32 world climates. Such a diversity is chiefly conditioned by the presence of the Andes mountains and the cold Humboldt Current. The climate on the coast is subtropical with very little rainfall. The Andes mountains observe a cool-to-cold climate with rainy summers and very dry winter.