3. locus-the set of all points or lines that satisfy or are determined by specific conditions; the locus of points equidistant from a given point is a circle. set - (mathematics) an abstract collection of numbers or symbols; the set of prime numbers is infinite. noun. 2. (Mathematics) maths a set of points whose location satisfies or is determined by one or more specified conditions: the locus of points equidistant from a given point is a circle. 3. (Genetics) genetics the position of a particular gene on a chromosome. [C18: Latin]. (ˈloʊ kəs). n., pl.
n, pl loci (ˈləʊsaɪ). 1. (Law) (in many legal phrases) a place or area, esp the place where something occurred. 2. (Mathematics) maths a set of points whose location satisfies or is determined by one or more specified conditions: the locus of points equidistant from a given point is a circle. 3. (Genetics) genetics the position of a particular gene on a chromosome. [C18: Latin]. (ˈloʊ kəs). n., pl.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Each curve in this example is a locus defined as the conchoid of the point P and the line l. In this example, P is 7cm from l. In geometry, a locus (plural: loci) is a set of points whose location satisfies or is determined by one or more specified conditions. 1 The set of points equidistant from two lines which cross is the angle bisector. 2  All conic sections are loci: 3  Parabola: the set of points equidistant from a single point (the focus) and a line (the directrix).
In mathematics, a locus (Latin for place, plural loci) is a collection of points which share a property. The term 'locus' is usually used of a condition which defines a continuous figure or figures, that is, a curve. * An ellipse is the locus of points, the sum of the distances from which to the foci is a given value. * A hyperbola is the locus of points, the difference
Best Answer: In mathematics, a locus (Latin for place, plural loci) is a collection of points which share a property. The term 'locus' is usually used of a condition which defines a continuous figure or figures, that is, a curve. For example, a line is the locus of points equidistant from two fixed points. * An ellipse is the locus of points, the sum of the distances from which to the foci is a given value. * A hyperbola is the locus of points, the difference
Example of bands. A locus (plural loci) is the specific location or position of a gene, DNA sequence, on a chromosome, in the field of genetics. Each chromosome carries many genes; humans' estimated ' haploid ' protein coding genes are 20,000-25,000, on the 23 different chromosomes. A range of loci is specified in a similar way. For example, the locus of gene OCA1 may be written 11q1.4-q2.1, meaning it is on the long arm of chromosome 11, somewhere in the range from sub-band 4 of region 1 to sub-band 1 of region 2.
Circumference is a geometrical locus in a plane, that is a totality of all points, equally removed from its center. Each of the equal segments, joining the center with any point of a circumference is called a radius and signed as r or R. A part of a plane inside of a circumference, is called a circle. A midperpendicular of any segment is a locus, i.e. a totality of all points, equally. removed from the bounds of the segment. Suppose that PO AB and AO = OB : Then, distances from any point P, lying on the midperpendicular PO, to bounds A and B of the segment AB are both equal to d.
2. the specific site of a particular gene on its chromosome. 3. the set of all points or lines that satisfy or are determined by specific conditions. Familiarity information: LOCUS used as a noun is uncommon. 
Locus. Definition. noun, plural: loci. (general) A place, space or locality, especially a centre of an activity. (mathematics) The set of all points whose coordinates satisfy a given equation or condition. (genetics) The location of a gene (or of a significant sequence) on a chromosome, as in genetic locus. (medicine) The site on the body where a pathogen enters. Supplement