310 Nutrition is a top emerging brand in meal replacement shakes and weight loss supplements! As a Southern California-born company, 310 knows how important it is to look and feel good in your body. 
Why do meal replacements or protein shakes for breakfast work? Simply put, weight loss occurs when your metabolism gets moving and you put out more calories than you take in. If you were to replace your 750-calorie bagel and orange juice meal with a 155-calorie protein shake, you’d save 595 calories per day. And you’d see the results on your bathroom scale in no time.
Protein, carb and fat guide. Protein – eat 75 to 175 grams of protein per day Most people should eat between 0.5 to 1 gram of protein per pound of ideal body weight. Eating protein helps prevent the breakdown of muscle so your weight loss is fat, not muscle. Each shake contained about 200 calories. They drank them around breakfast and dinner. The whey group lost 4 pounds of body weight and 5 pounds of fat mass, as well as reduced their waist circumference and fasting hunger hormone (ghrelin) levels. The soy group lost 2 pounds of body weight and 2.4 pounds of body fat.
Since protein contains calories, consuming too much can actually make losing weight more difficult — especially if you drink protein shakes in addition to your usual diet, and you're not exercising. The average adult needs 46 to 56 grams of protein a day, depending on weight and overall health. As long as you're eating a healthy diet, adding extra protein — either through protein shakes or other sources — isn't necessary. Remember, the key to losing weight is burning more calories than you consume.
Boost your shake with veggies or fruit. Have three other meals (snacks) a day. Keep your calorie intake to about 500 less per day than your breakeven calorie level and you’ll lose one pound of fat a week. It’s a very liveable plan that’s backed up by clinical research (see below). Each shake contained about 200 calories. They drank them around breakfast and dinner. The whey group lost 4 pounds of body weight and 5 pounds of fat mass, as well as reduced their waist circumference and fasting hunger hormone (ghrelin) levels. The soy group lost 2 pounds of body weight and 2.4 pounds of body fat.
2. Start your weight-loss diet by replacing one meal daily with a protein shake. For the quickest weight-loss progress, the meal you replace should be the one with the most calories. So if you usually eat a small breakfast, a light lunch and a big dinner, replace your dinner with the shake to see the fastest progress. Protein shakes can replace extra calories from regular meals. It’s a simple weight-loss strategy: Replace one or more of your meals every da
1. Choose the type of protein shake you want to use as a meal replacement. Whey is a well-studied protein powder; it has been shown to improve body composition and lower several risk factors for metabolic disease. Soy and casein protein shakes have also produced weight loss in clinical trials. Protein shakes can replace extra calories from regular meals. It’s a simple weight-loss strategy: Replace one or more of your meals every day with a protein shake.
When you have a holistic approach to weight loss, you can definitely include protein shakes into your diet and it will help your weight loss efforts. It acts as a high quality source of protein. When coupled with a healthy diet and exercise, it is an ample source of protein for your body to build much-needed muscles. Your metabolism is at its highest when you are eating meals every few hours. It is also recommended that people who are trying to lose weight should have 5-6 small meals each day. If you have bought a protein shake which is low in carbohydrates, one shake could be approximately 150 – 200 calories.
Scientific research shows that if using protein shakes as meal replacements lowers the total number of calories you eat in a day, you will lose weight over time -- and likely improve your body composition as well. Protein shakes can replace extra calories from regular meals. It’s a simple weight-loss strategy: Replace one or more of your meals every day with a protein shake.
If your goal is to lose body fat, change to a protein shake that's mainly protein, has fewer carbohydrates, and only a little bit of fat. Make sure the product is more than 50% protein if your goal is body fat loss, Antonio says. 