Each dependent must meet age, relationship, residency and support tests. Additionally, each person can only be claimed as a dependent on one income tax return per year. So if you share custody with a former spouse, only one of you can claim the child. Step 4: Add the number of dependents claimed. You can claim one exemption for each dependent you claim plus one for yourself and one for your spouse. An exemption is a fixed amount that is subject to change each tax year and reduces your taxable income in the same way deductions do. In 2014 for example, the exemption amount is $3,950
1 You generally can take an exemption for each of your dependents. 2  A dependent is your qualifying child or qualifying relative. 3  You must list the social security number of any dependent for whom you claim an exemption. 4  If someone else claims you as a dependent, you may still be required to file your own tax return. 1 If someone else – such as your parent – claims you as a dependent, you may not claim your personal exemption on your own tax return. 2  Some people cannot be claimed as your dependent. 3  Generally, you may not claim a married person as a dependent if they file a joint return with their spouse.
Dependent rules also apply to other benefits, such as tax credits. Many of these credits are available only if you have qualified dependents. For example, both the child tax credit and the earned-income tax credit rely on these rules. 
When you’re claiming a dependent who is a child, there are further requirements: 1  The child has to have lived with you for at least half of the year. 2  The child has to be related to you. 3  That means your son, daughter, stepchild, foster child, brother, sister, stepbrother, stepsister, or a descendant of any of those. For a parent or other relative, there are different additional requirements: 1  The person cannot have a gross yearly income over $3,950. 2  The person can’t be a qualifying child dependent of you or another person. 3  The person must be either related to you or must have lived with you all year as a member of your household.
First and foremost, whether they are your child or your Valentine: • You cannot claim them if you can be claimed as a dependent by another person. • They cannot file a joint tax return (in most cases). • They must be a U.S. citizen, resident alien, national, or a resident of Canada or Mexico. In order to claim a child as a dependent, these five additional tests must be met: • Relationship: Must be your child, adopted child, foster-child, brother or sister, or a descendant of one of these (grandchild or nephew). • Residence: Must have the same residence for more than half the year. 
If you support children, relatives, or even non-relatives, then you may be able to claim them as dependents (or dependants, as the word is often misspelled) on your tax return. The IRS definition of a dependent is: a Qualifying Child or Qualifying Relative for whom you can claim a tax exemption. What Are the IRS Dependent Rules? If someone is your Qualifying Child or Qualifying Relative, then you can claim a tax exemption for them, and you may qualify for additional tax benefits. 
There are 4 tests that will qualify a relative as a dependent as follows: 1  They are not the “qualifying child” of another taxpayer or your “qualifying child”. 2  Gross Income – Dependent earns less than $3,700 TY 2011 and $3,650 TY 2010. 3  Total Support – You provide more than half of the total support for the year. 1 Age – Must be under age 19 or under 24 and a full-time student for at least 5 months. 2  They can be any age if they are totally and permanently disabled. 3  Support – Must not have provided more than half of their own support during the year. 4  Joint Support – The child cannot file a joint return
1 Generally, you may not claim a married person as a dependent if they file a joint return with their spouse. 2  Also, to claim someone as a dependent, that person must be a U.S. citizen, U.S. resident alien, U.S. national or resident of Canada or Mexico for some part of the year. 1 If someone else – such as your parent – claims you as a dependent, you may not claim your personal exemption on your own tax return. 2  Some people cannot be claimed as your dependent. 3 
You cannot claim a person as a dependent unless that person is a US citizen, US resident alien, US national, or a resident of Canada or Mexico. You can claim your Mother as a dependent if you provide over one-half her support and she did not have gross income of more than $ 3,700. If your potential dependent does not qualify as a qualifying child, he may instead be classified as a qualifying relative, and still be claimed as a dependent. To be a qualifying relative, the dependent must meet all of the following tests. Note that there is no age test for a qualifying relative.