Shingles is an infection of a nerve area caused by the varicella-zoster virus. It causes pain and a rash along a band of skin supplied by the affected nerve. Symptoms usually go within 2-4 weeks. Pain sometimes persists after the rash has gone, more commonly in people over the age of 50. Shingles is an infection of a nerve and the area of skin supplied by the nerve. It is caused by a virus called the varicella-zoster virus. It is the same virus that causes chickenpox. Anyone who has had chickenpox in the past may develop shingles.
Cause. Shingles is caused by the varicella zoster virus (VZV), the same virus that causes chickenpox. After a person recovers from chickenpox, the virus stays dormant (inactive) in the body. For reasons that are not fully known, the virus can reactivate years later, causing shingles. Shingles is not caused by the same virus that causes genital herpes, a sexually transmitted disease.
1 Shingles in caused by the same virus that causes chickenpox-varicella-zoster virus. 2  Shingles is a painful infection of the nerve supplying an area of skin and is accompanied by a localised skin rash. 3  Older people and those with a weakened immune system are at greater risk for developing shingles. 1 Over half of all shingles cases occur in people over the age of 60, with the burden of illness twice as high in people over 70, compared to people aged 60-69 years old. 2  4,18. 3 
Shingles is caused by the varicella zoster virus (VZV), the same virus that causes chickenpox. After a person recovers from chickenpox, the virus stays dormant (inactive) in the body. For reasons that are not fully known, the virus can reactivate years later, causing shingles. Shingles is not caused by the same virus that causes genital herpes, a sexually transmitted disease.
Shingles affects the nerves. Shingles is caused by the varicella-zoster virus — the same virus that causes chickenpox. Anyone who's had chickenpox may develop shingles. After you recover from chickenpox, the virus can enter your nervous system and lie dormant for years. 
Shingles-Cause. Shingles is a reactivation of the varicella-zoster virus, a type of herpes virus that causes chickenpox. After you have had chickenpox, the virus lies inactive in your nerve roots and remains inactive until, in some people, it flares up again.
1 4,18. 2  Shingles in caused by the same virus that causes chickenpox-varicella-zoster virus. 3  Shingles is a painful infection of the nerve supplying an area of skin and is accompanied by a localised skin rash. 1 Over half of all shingles cases occur in people over the age of 60, with the burden of illness twice as high in people over 70, compared to people aged 60-69 years old. 2  4,18. 3
Shingles, also called herpes zoster or zoster, is a painful skin rash caused by the varicella-zoster virus, the same virus that causes chickenpox. After a person recovers from chickenpox, the virus remains inactive in the body. 
Shingles is caused by the varicella-zoster virus-the same virus that causes chickenpox. After recovery from chickenpox, the virus remains in the body and lies dormant in the central nervous system. 1 Over half of all shingles cases occur in people over the age of 60, with the burden of illness twice as high in people over 70, compared to people aged 60-69 years old. 2  4,18. 3  Shingles in caused by the same virus that causes chickenpox-varicella-zoster virus.