Pessary. A pessary is a soft, flexible device that is placed in the vagina to help support the bladder, vagina, uterus, and/or rectum. Pessaries are made in many different shapes and sizes. A pessary is a non-surgical way to treat pelvic organ prolapse and sometimes incontinence. 
A pessary is a plastic device that fits into your vagina to help support your uterus (womb), vagina, bladder or rectum. The pessary is most often used for “prolapse” of the uterus. Prolapse means that your uterus droops or tends to “fall out” because it loses support after you give birth or have pelvic surgery. This problem is usually fixed with surgery, but you can also use a pessary to help keep the uterus in place.
A pessary is a rubber device that fits into your vagina to help support your uterus (womb), vagina, bladder, or rectum. The pessary is most often used to treat prolapse of the uterus. Prolapse refers to when the uterus drops or “falls out” because it loses support after childbirth or pelvic surgery. 
A therapeutic pessary is a medical device similar to the outer ring of a diaphragm. Therapeutic pessaries are used to support the uterus, vagina, bladder, or rectum. Pessaries are a treatment option for pelvic organ prolapse. A pessary is most commonly used to treat prolapse of the uterus. It is also used to treat stress urinary incontinence, a retroverted uterus, cystocele and rectocele. Historically, pessaries may have been used to perform abortions. A pharmaceutical pessary is used as a very effective means of delivery of pharmaceutical substances easily absorbed through the skin of the vagina or rectum, or intended to have action in the locality, for example against inflammation or infection, or on
Pessaries are sometimes used to see what the effect of surgery for pelvic organ prolapse will be on urinary symptoms. This is called a pessary test.. If you have a problem with incontinence with a pessary inserted, a separate surgery to fix the incontinence problem may be done at the same time as a prolapse surgery. A variety of pessaries are available, including the inflatable, doughnut, and Gellhorn. Your doctor will fit your pessary to hold the pelvic organs in position without causing discomfort. Pessaries come in different sizes and should be fitted carefully.
A vaginal pessary is a removable plastic device placed into the vagina to help to support areas of pelvic organ prolapse. The pessary is most often used to reduce prolapse of the uterus (womb). A pessary can also help to support a cystocele (when your bladder droops down into your vagina) or a rectocele (when the wall of your rectum bulges into the bottom of your vagina). 
A vaginal pessary is a removable device placed into the vagina. It is designed to support areas of pelvic organ prolapse. A variety of pessaries are available, including the inflatable, doughnut, and Gellhorn. Your doctor will fit your pessary to hold the pelvic organs in position without causing discomfort. Pessaries come in different sizes and should be fitted carefully.
Types of pessaries. Pessaries come in many shapes and sizes. The device fits into your vagina and provides support to vaginal tissues displaced by pelvic organ prolapse. Your doctor can fit you for a pessary and help you decide which type would best suit your need
Placement of a Pessary. The most common types of pessaries are the Gellhorn and the doughnut. A pessary is used to support areas of pelvic organ prolapse. Your doctor will try to find a pessary that fits you. It should not cause any pain. You may need to try different shapes and sizes of pessaries to find one that fits you just right.