The Germans surrendered because their Furher was dead along with the best of the male population of Germany. The Russians were rampaging through Berlin. On the Western Front A … merican, Britain and it's empire had forced their way onto enemy soil. At home th Germans suffered food shortages etc. The inability of the German Army to reach and capture Paris, in the Second Battle of the Marne, was the immediate reason. All of the countries were exhausted by the war and on … ly military victory could prevent domestic revolution.
It had been a major aim of the German High command to prevent supplies, food and troops coming across the Atlantic from the USA (just as in the second World War), but the British blockade of German sea ports was much more effective in preventing materials and food reaching Germany. 
1. The German Command agrees to the surrender of all armed forces in HOLLAND, in northwest GERMANY including the FRISLIAN ISLANDS and HELIGOLAND and all islands, in SCHLESWIG-HOLSTEIN, and in DENMARK, to the C.-in-C. 21 Army Group. 
The surrender terms for Germany were first discussed at the first EAC meeting on 14 January 1944. A definitive text was agreed on 28 July 1944, and was then adopted by the three Allied Powers. The agreed text was in three parts. The definitive Act of Military Surrender was dated as being signed before midnight on 8 May at the seat of the Soviet Military Administration in Berlin-Karlshorst, now the location of the German-Russian Museum Berlin-Karlshorst.
Adolf Hitler led Germany throughout World War Two. Adolf Hitler killed himself on April 30th, 1945 – just days before Germany’s unconditional surrender. Berlin was about to fall to the Russians and defeat for Nazi Germany was obvious. Hitler had no intention of letting the Russians capture him and putting him on trial – hence his suicide.
The Surrender of Nazi Germany. Nazi Germany surrendered on May 7th 1945 thus bringing World War Two in Europe to an end. On May 6th General Alfred Jodl arrived at General Dwight Eisenhower’s temporary headquarters – a small schoolhouse in Reims, France – to sign the surrender document. Four versions of the surrender document were required: in English, French, Russian and German. The Germans were summoned a short time after to sign theAct of Military Surrender. One witness to the signing said that it was done without an air of celebration. For reasons of protocol, Eisenhower was not at the signing. He remained in a nearby room.
One of these reasons was that the assassination was an example of the Hapsburg's loss of control and if Austria were to decline to Germany's offer, Germany would be completely surrounded by enemies. 1 The German government also knew that Russia would lose a major base in Europe if they were to lose Yugoslavia. At this point, Russia had pretty much surrendered to the Germans. At that point, Germany also made an alliance with Finland and deposited 150,000 soldiers in their country-soldiers that could have been used in the actual war.
The Soviet Army was advancing from the East, and the Americans were advancing from the west, catching Germany in a pincer attack. The Nazi leadership knew the war was over. After Hitler committed suicide, the leaders of the country threw in the towel.. Who occupied Germanyapex= rhineland Yes, Germany was occupied by Germany during World War 2. It was not until after the war that Germany was split into four parts. Britain, Fr … ance, The United States, and the Soviet Union each got a piece of Germany.
The German surrender. An artistic account of the surrender of German forces in November 1918. The German surrender was the product of events in 1918. By the end of 1917, an Allied victory in Europe was far from certain. The Americans had come into the war – but Russia, overtaken by socialist revolutionaries, had pulled out. Germany’s position was also weakened by the loss of her allies in the autumn of 1918. Berlin’s largest ally in the Balkans, Bulgaria, signed an armistice with the Allies on September 29th 1918. The Ottoman Empire had endured a series of defeats in Egypt, Palestine, Syria and the Caucasus.