Lesson Summary. The somatosensory cortex is an important part of the cerebral cortex in the brain that processes sensory information from the body. Neurons from different parts of the body that receive environmental stimuli all send their information to the somatosensory cortex. Scientists have mapped out which part of the somatosensory cortex processes information from which part of the body. This map is called the homunculus and is important to understanding how sensory information is processed. To unlock this lesson you must be a Study.com Member.
The somatosensory cortex receives all sensory input from the body. Cells that are part of the brain or nerves that extend into the body are called neurons. Neurons that sense feelings in our skin, pain, visual, or auditory stimuli, all send their information to the somatosensory cortex for processing. Scientists have mapped out which part of the somatosensory cortex processes information from which part of the body. This map is called the homunculus and is important to understanding how sensory information is processed. To unlock this lesson you must be a Study.com Member.
The primary somatosensory area in the human cortex (also called primary somatic sensory cortex or SI) is located in the postcentral gyrus of the parietal lobe and makes up four distinct fields or regions known as Brodmann areas 3a, 3b, 1, and 2. In the periphery, the somatosensory system detects various stimuli by sensory receptors, e.g. by mechanoreceptors for tactile sensation and nociceptors for pain sensation. The sensory information (touch, pain, temperature etc.,) is then conveyed to the central nervous system by afferent neurons.
Processing primarily occurs in the primary somatosensory area in the parietal lobe of the cerebral cortex: information is sent from the receptors via sensory nerves, through tracts in the spinal cord and finally into the brain. In the periphery, the somatosensory system detects various stimuli by sensory receptors, e.g. by mechanoreceptors for tactile sensation and nociceptors for pain sensation. The sensory information (touch, pain, temperature etc.,) is then conveyed to the central nervous system by afferent neurons.
Previous chapters described the ways in which the different somatosensory receptors respond to specific types of somatosensory stimuli and that the receptors, by virtue of their selective sensitivities, extract specific information about the somatosensory stimulus. The secondary somatosensory cortex, SII, is located inferiorly-in the pars opercularis of the parietal lobe, which forms part of upper lip of the lateral sulcus (Figure 5.4 & Figure 5.5). SII neurons send their axons to SI, association cortex, motor cortex, and insula (Figure 5.6).
Neurons in the somatosensory cortex are organized according to the types of sensation to which they respond. Input from various systems of the body that are sensitive to touch is processed in the somatosensory cortex of the brain. The somatosensory cortex is an area of the brain that processes input from the various systems in the body that are sensitive to touch.
The somatosensory cortex integrates sensory information from the body, producing a map similar to that of the primary motor cortex. Transcript: The somatosensory cortex (postcentral gyrus) receives tactile information from the body. Sensory information is carried to the brain by neural pathways to the spinal cord, brainstem, and thalamus, which project to the somatosensory cortex (which in turns has numerous connections with other brain areas).
The lateral postcentral gyrus is a prominent structure in the parietal lobe of the human brain. It is the location of the primary somatosensory cortex, the main sensory receptive area for the sense of touch. Like other sensory areas, there is a map of sensory space in this location, called the sensory homunculus. 
Modality Specificity in the Somatosensory System. The somatosensory systems process information about, and represent, several modalities of somatic sensation (i.e., pain, temperature, touch, proprioception). The somatosensory systems also monitor the temperature of the body, external objects and environment, and provide information about painful, itchy and tickling stimuli. The sensory information processed by the somatosensory systems travels along different anatomical pathways depending on the information carried.
The somatosensory association cortex (areas 5 and 7) is directly posterior to the sensory cortex in the superior parietal lobes. This receives synthesized connections from the primary and secondary sensory cortices. These neurons respond to several types of inputs and are involved in complex associations. 