concerned as to what is going on me these days, i feel i might have something wrong with my heart, i really ... this strong EXtra beat /thud in my chest like my heart sank / drop feeling, then pause and then normal heart ... Heart palpitations and irregular beats. palpations and rapid beat. i was put on another med after to regulate heart rate. Now i still experience palpataions and i can feel when they are about to happen. also extreme fatigue and some weakness.
· just now. Report Abuse. Doubling beats may seem like an 'okay' thing, but actually its not. It could mean your heart is not getting enough oxygen to pump regular beats, or it could mean your heart has a hole in it, which is even worse and is what is causing your heart to work twice as hard. A friend of mine had this, and she got a pacemaker. Don't worry though, because your might not be a severe condition. Here is a brief explanation of the R on T Syndrome.... These (extra beats call PVC's) are caused by the premature discharge of a ventricular ectopic focus which produces an early and broad QRS complex. Extrasystoles are usually normal, being common in middle age. The patient may feel an occasional missed beat.
What does it mean when your heart double beats. Premium Questions. been having skipping or double beating, whatever it is, I hate it and it scares me as it is different ... it was just quivering and not really beating. Heart palpitations and irregular beats. palpations and rapid beat. i was put on another med after to regulate heart rate. Now i still experience palpataions and i can feel when they are about to happen. also extreme fatigue and some weakness.
These pulses keep the heart pumping and keep blood flowing to the lungs and body. When the heart beats too fast, too slow, or with a skipping (irregular) rhythm, a person is said to have an arrhythmia. A change in the heart's rhythm may feel like an extra-strong heartbeat (palpitation) or a fluttering in your chest. Premature ventricular contractions (PVCs) often cause this feeling. Your heart normally beats in a regular rhythm and rate that is just right for the work your body is doing at any moment. The usual resting heart rate for adults is between 50 to 100 beats per minute. Children have naturally higher normal heart rates than adults
A perfectly healthy heart is often accompanied by a double heart beat. This is not ususally clinically remarkable. Uless, it is repetitive. It is then that an unltra-sound would be required in order to determine just why (you) have a double heart-beat. If you are experiencing a repetitive occurance of a double heat-beat, then you are a candidate for an unltra sound test.
Resolved Question: My heart is skipping beats (beating twice quickly stops then beats once an then back to the double beat.) I can hardly walk a block without stabbing pains in my heart and chest, it feels like i was running 10 miles and i cannot catch my breath. 
If you have your double beats several times every single day, a Holter monitor, which records the electrocardiogram of every heart beat for 24 hours, will show exactly what kind of double beats. If you don't have the double beats every single day, then you'll need an event monitor, which records the electrocardiogram for a couple minutes before and after you push a button. Double beats are a nuisance but not a threat to life or health. There are medicines that will decrease
These sensations are called palpitations. For most people, although palpitations can feel unpleasant, they’re usually harmless and do not mean anything is wrong with your heart. You might also feel that your heart has missed or 'skipped' a beat or there has been an extra beat. An extra beat is called an ectopic beat. Ectopic beats are very common and are usually harmless and do not need any treatment. If you are concerned about palpitations or ectopic beats, you should speak to your doctor who will be able to do an ECG to assess your heart rate and the rhythm.