Liver is located below the diaphragm in the right upper quadrant. It’s about the size of a football, and weighs 3-4 pounds. It plays a significant role in the metabolism within the human body. Function disruption of this organ surely causes several health problems. 
The liver is located on the upper side of your right abdomen below your diaphragm and enclosed by your rib cage. At the back of your liver is where the gallbladder is located and closer to the spleen, stomach, intestines and kidneys. You can actually feel your liver by laying your fingers under your right rib cage. The liver processes everything you ingest into your body, from foods to medicines, even lotions and deodorants. Know where your liver is located. Now that you already have an idea as to the exact location of the liver, check the location of your liver. lie down onto the floor and push the right side of your abdomen below your rib cage and inhale. A healthy liver must be situated along the diaphragm all through your lowest rib
Front View of the Liver. The liver is a large, meaty organ that sits on the right side of the belly. Weighing about 3 pounds, the liver is reddish-brown in color and feels rubbery to the touch. Normally you can't feel the liver, because it's protected by the rib cage. The liver has two large sections, called the right and the left lobes. 
The liver is normally found in the upper right portion of a person’s abdominal cavity, situated underneath the diaphragm and right of the kidney, on topmost portion of the stomach. It is known to have two sources of blood supply, one for oxygenated blood and the other one, nutrient rich blood. 
The liver is the largest internal organ of the body and is located in the right upper quadrant of the abdomen, beneath the diaphragm and is protected by the lower right ribs. It also extends across the midline toward the left upper quadrant of the abdomen. 
The liver. The liver is your largest internal organ. About the size of a football, it's located mainly in the upper right portion of your abdomen, beneath the diaphragm and above your stomach, but a small portion extends into the upper left quadrant.
Answers to where is your liver located, what does the liver do and how to keep a healthy liver. The liver is actually one of the most powerful organs in your body (next to the brain and heart, probably), and it serves more functions than most of your organs. 
Location of the Liver. In simplest terms, it can be said that the liver is located on the right side of the abdominal cavity, just below the diaphragm. In scientific terms, it is said to be located in the right upper quadrant of the abdominal cavity. The gallbladder is located to the exact back side of the liver in the human body. If one palpates properly and touches just below the right rib cage, one can feel the liver in the body. The liver is one of the most important organs in the body. So, it is natural for you to be curious about the location and functions of the liver. Here we will take a detailed look on the placement of the liver, its functions, and also about the diseases associated with it.
Liver pain is not something to be ignored. It could be a sign of a serious health condition. Therefore it is important to know where it is and what it does in the body. Your liver is located near your abdomen on the right side,actually beneath your ribs and above your diaphragm which separates the chest and the abdomen. 