Declaring Support Payments Made. Child support and spousal support are reported together on line 230. Spousal support payments remain deductible, while child support payments may or may not be, so line 220 reports what portion of the amount in line 230 is deductible. For example, when your total annual support payments equal $4,800 divided equally between child and spousal support, you must enter $4,800 on line 230. For previous court orders, you may be required to claim or deduct support payments, depending on the date child support court orders took effect. Child support payments can affect how you report spousal support.
Gene started making monthly support payments of $1,500 in January and paid a total of $18,000 for 2014. Gene enters the total support payments amount of $18,000 on line 230 of his 2014 tax return. On line 220, he enters the deductible part of his support payments, which is the spousal support amount of $6,000. Note. Enter on line 220 the deductible part of the support payments that you paid. Complete both line 230 and line 220 correctly to avoid your claim being delayed or disallowed. You also have to register your court order or written agreement with us. For more information, see Registering your court order or written agreement
Alimony payments are deductible by the payer spouse and income to the recipient spouse. In contrast, child support is neither deductible nor treated as income. A court ordered the father to pay “family support,” and his payments for the year totaled more than $24,000. He deducted the entire amount; the mother argued that part of the payments should be treated as child support and not taxable to her (or deductible by him).
You can deduct spousal support payments on your income tax return, but not child support or property distributions. So the IRS scrutinizes support paid in the first three years to make sure that you didn’t disguise property distribution or other postdivorce obligations, like attorneys’ fees, as deductible support. 
Enter Your Zip Code to Connect with a Lawyer Serving Your Area. Child support is tax-free for federal income tax purposes, meaning neither the recipient spouse nor the child owes taxes on it. However, unlike spousal support, child support payments are not tax-deductible by the parent who makes the payments. (Spousal support is tax-deductible for the person who makes the payments and taxable to the recipient.). If the agreement lumps child support and alimony payments together, as family support or alimony, or doesn't otherwise designate a specific portion of each payment as child support, none of the payment will be considered child support for tax purposes.
Brendan made $24,491 in family support payments during 2008 under the support orders. On his individual income tax return for 2008, Brendan claimed an alimony deduction for the family support payments. The IRS issued a deficiency notice that disallowed the alimony deduction and also assessed a penalty. 
Prior to May 1, 1997, both child and spousal support payments were deductible to the payer and taxable to the recipient. The rules for child support changed as of that date, and are no longer deductible.. Some conditions exist that mandate agreements and orders issued prior to May 1997 to change to current rules. For previous court orders, you may be required to claim or deduct support payments, depending on the date child support court orders took effect. Child support payments can affect how you report spousal support.
fr. Child Support Payments are never taxable for the recipient nor deductible for the payer, as long as the originating court order or agreement is later than May 1st 1997. Court orders or agreements prior to May 1st 1997 are subject to the old rules (taxable and deductible). 
Line 230 and 220 - Support payments made. If you are claiming deductible support payments, enter on line 230 of your income tax and benefit return the total amount of support payments you paid under all court orders and written agreements, including any non-deductible child support payments you made. Enter on line 220 the deductible part of the support payments that you paid. Complete both line 230 and line 220 correctly to avoid your claim being delayed or disallowed. You also have to register your court order or written agreement with us. For more information, see Registering your court order or written agreement