From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Lager (German: storeroom or warehouse) is a type of beer that is conditioned at low temperatures, normally in cold storage at the brewery, before being delivered to the consumer. It may be pale, golden, amber, or dark. Lager beer uses a process of cool fermentation, followed by maturation in cold storage. The German word Lager means storeroom or warehouse. The yeast generally used with lager brewing is Saccharomyces pastorianus. It is a close relative of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae yeast used for warm fermented ales.
Pale lager is a very pale-to-golden coloured beer with a well attenuated body and a varying degree of noble hop bitterness. 
There are two main types of beer yeast, lager yeast and ale yeast, and both are discussed further in Ales v. Lagers. […]. […] very popular at the time, they wanted to brew them, but lacked the tools for cold fermentation (see Differences Between an Ale and a Lager). Stouts and porters are STYLES of beer but are ales.(Unless it’s a baltic porter, that’s a lager) There are only two types of beers, ales and lagers as the article states. Everything else is a style of that yeast.
The main difference between ales and lagers is the type of yeast used in the brewing process, which in turn dictates what ingredients and techniques can be used. Stouts and porters are STYLES of beer but are ales.(Unless it’s a baltic porter, that’s a lager) There are only two types of beers, ales and lagers as the article states. Everything else is a style of that yeast.
All About Beer Magazine-Volume 29, Issue 5. If you inquire of the average beer geek about the differences between ale and lager, you will probably be told that ale is brewed with top-fermenting yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) and lager with bottom-fermenting yeast (Saccharomyces uvarum). End of conversation. But there’s much more to tell. First of all, ale and lager are both beers; that is, they are fermented from grain. The major difference between these two beer families stems from the temperature at which fermentation is carried out. 
Lager is always beer, but beer is not always lager. In order to understand what lager is we must look at what the process is, starting from the early beer making stages. Storage is the German translation for the word lager.. This type of beer is brewed at low temperatures using bottom-fermenting yeast for longer periods of time than is usually used in beer ale. In medieval time “lagering” was simply the cold storage of beers in caves. 
For the average beer drinker, the difference between an ale and a lager comes down to how the beer looks, smells, and tastes. Ales tend to be fruity-estery, while lagers are clean-tasting and frequently described as crisp.. But to a brewer, the difference is more fundamental than that. It's not color, or flavor, or aroma, or hop/grain/malt varietals or even water hardness that separates a lager from an ale. A quick graphical reference for the differences between ale and lager. The main difference for the brewer is the brewing temperature: ales ferment under warm conditions; lagers cold. Here's the thing about the lager yeast genome.
While it is possible to use lager yeast in a warm fermentation process such as with American Steam beer, the lack of a cold storage maturation phase precludes such beer from being classified as lager beer. Lager beer uses a process of cool fermentation, followed by maturation in cold storage. The German word Lager means storeroom or warehouse. The yeast generally used with lager brewing is Saccharomyces pastorianus. It is a close relative of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae yeast used for warm fermented ales.
In the description it says that it is a beer traditionally made with lager yeast and brewed at ale temperatures. I used American lager yeast that fermented best at 48-58 degrees and fermented (primary) at about 50-54 degrees. The recipe then says to lager the beer at 50 degrees for 3 weeks. 