The name organelle comes from the idea that these structures are to cells what an organ is to the body (hence the name organelle, the suffix-elle being a diminutive). Under the more restricted definition of membrane-bound structures, some parts of the cell do not qualify as organelles. Nevertheless, the use of organelle to refer to non-membrane bound structures such as ribosomes is common. This has led some texts to delineate between membrane-bound and non-membrane bound
Animal Cell Structure Animal cells are typical of the eukaryotic cell, enclosed by a plasma membrane and containing a membrane-bound nucleus and organelles. Unlike the eukaryotic cells of plants and fungi, animal cells do not have a cell wall. Animal Cell Structure. Animal cells are typical of the eukaryotic cell, enclosed by a plasma membrane and containing a membrane-bound nucleus and organelles.
Horrible question. New molecules are being made all over the place in any cell. That said, Nucleus: production of RNA Mitochondria: production of ATP Ribosomes: production of proteins Chloroplasts: production of simple sugars. 
Mitochondria and chloroplasts, which have double-membranes and their own DNA, are believed to have originated from incompletely consumed or invading prokaryotic organisms, which were adopted as a part of the invaded cell. This idea is supported in the Endosymbiotic theory. Under the more restricted definition of membrane-bound structures, some parts of the cell do not qualify as organelles. Nevertheless, the use of organelle to refer to non-membrane bound structures such as ribosomes is common. This has led some texts to delineate between membrane-bound and non-membrane bound
I don't know. Plenty of organelles make plenty of molecules, e.g. chloroplasts make carbohydrates and mitochondria make ATP. I suspect, though, that your teacher wants ribosomes, because they manufacture polypeptides.. 
In cell biology, an organelle /ɔrɡəˈnɛl/ is a specialized subunit within a cell that has a specific function. Individual organelles are usually separately enclosed within their own lipid bilayers. Under the more restricted definition of membrane-bound structures, some parts of the cell do not qualify as organelles. Nevertheless, the use of organelle to refer to non-membrane bound structures such as ribosomes is common. This has led some texts to delineate between membrane-bound and non-membrane bound
All eukaryotic cells have within them a variety of different structures called organelles. Organelles are small and function much like organs function in a large organism. Some organelles are responsible for gathering cell energy, others for controlling cell activities. Plant cells have different organelles than animal cells but also share many also. They all have a large variety of sizes and functions and make life as we know if possible.
Cell Organelle Information-You will need to know both the structure and function of the organelles in a cell. Make sure you know the difference in organelles found in plant and animal cells. Nucleus Back to the Top Function The nucleus is the control center of a cell as such it is the most important part of the cell. The control arises from the genetic information stored in the nucleus. Genes are made of the nucleic acid DNA.
The nucleus is one of the most important organelles in a cell. It is often the largest organelle in animal cells, but this is not always the case. Nuclei contain the genetic material called DNA that is responsible for controlling and directing all cell activities. Some organelles are responsible for gathering cell energy, others for controlling cell activities. Plant cells have different organelles than animal cells but also share many also. They all have a large variety of sizes and functions and make life as we know if possible.