An exception is a successor trustee who manages the property in a child's subtrust. In that case, the successor trustee is entitled, under the terms of the trust document, to reasonable compensation.. The successor trustee decides what is reasonable and takes it from the trust property left to the young beneficiary. Typically, the successor trustee of a simple probate-avoidance living trust isn't paid. This is because, in most cases, the successor trustee's only job is to distribute the trust property to beneficiaries soon after the grantor's death -- and often, the successor trustee inherits most of the trust property anyway.
After both original trustees have died, the successor trustee named in the trust document takes over as trustee. The successor trustee's primary responsibility is to distribute trust property to the beneficiaries named in the trust document. Typically, the successor trustee of a simple probate-avoidance living trust isn't paid. This is because, in most cases, the successor trustee's only job is to distribute the trust property to beneficiaries soon after the grantor's death -- and often, the successor trustee inherits most of the trust property anyway.
The successor trustee may be the primary beneficiary of the trust, who has the incentive to handle the transfers promptly and efficiently. However, it can be anyone you. trust: a close friend, an adult child, your spouse, your lawyer, an accountant, or a corporate trustee. 
While the successor trustee cannot use the trust's assets to his own benefit, unless he is also a beneficiary of the trust, he can sell, transfer, and distribute assets according to the instructions the grantor created for the trust. A successor trustee is appointed following the original manager of a trust. A successor trustee is an individual who manages and controls a trust after its trustee dies or is incapacitated. For example, the person who creates a trust, called a grantor, may be his own trustee, managing and controlling the trust's assets
In cases such as these, a person with an interest in the trust, such as a beneficiary or the trustor, may petition the probate court for removal of a trustee. An alternate trustee is usually the first choice for the new trustee if the agreement named a successor. For example, an agreement might allow trustee removal only if all beneficiaries and the trustor agree. Other than age requirements—trustees must be at least 18 years of age—state laws don't restrict a trustor's trustee choice, so the trustor may name a beneficiary as trustee or alternate trustee.
An irrevocable trust owner typically can't change the trust's terms or end the agreement. A trust's owner may name a beneficiary—a person who receives income and assets from the trust—as trustee or successor trustee in the agreement. For example, an agreement might allow trustee removal only if all beneficiaries and the trustor agree. Other than age requirements—trustees must be at least 18 years of age—state laws don't restrict a trustor's trustee choice, so the trustor may name a beneficiary as trustee or alternate trustee.
The trust document includes important information such as the name of the successor trustee; type of property included in the trust; duties of the successor trustee; name of trust beneficiaries; and how trust property is to be distributed to the trust beneficiaries when the settlor dies. To transfer property to the name of the successor trustee, a form called Affidavit of Death of Trustee should be prepared and filed with the real property recording office in the county where the property is located.
Transferring Property From a Living Trust to a Successor Trustee. A successor trustee is named in a living trust as the person who will take over the trustee’s duties and fulfill provisions of the trust when the trustee dies. The transition process requires trust property to be transferred out of the trustee's name into the successor trustee's name. To do this, the successor trustee must review the trust document and prepare the necessary transfer documents for each type of property held in the trust. To transfer property to the name of the successor trustee, a form called Affidavit of Death of Trustee should be prepared and filed with the real property recording office in the county where the property is located.
An irrevocable trust agreement is a written document that lists the trust's terms. The document identifies the trust's owner—that, is the trustor or grantor, as well as the beneficiaries and the trustee, who manages the trust. For example, an agreement might allow trustee removal only if all beneficiaries and the trustor agree. Other than age requirements—trustees must be at least 18 years of age—state laws don't restrict a trustor's trustee choice, so the trustor may name a beneficiary as trustee or alternate trustee.