Top 10 unbelievable historical concurrencies. A broadband modem is a device that connects a computer to both the Internet and to other computers on a network. The broadband modem gets its name by sending and receiving large amounts of data over a wide band of frequencies, typically via a fiber optic cable or telephone line. This data is altered by the modem when it reaches the computer to become digital signals, and converted back to frequencies when sent out.
A mobile broadband modem, also known as a connect card or data card, is a type of modem that allows a laptop, a personal computer or a router to receive Internet access via a mobile broadband connection instead of using telephone or cable television lines. 
Westell Model 6100 AXXDSL DSL router. A digital subscriber line (DSL) modem is a device used to connect a computer or router to a telephone line which provides the digital subscriber line service for connectivity to the Internet, which is often called DSL broadband. The more common DSL router is a standalone device that combines the function of a DSL modem and a router, and can connect multiple computers through multiple Ethernet ports or an integral wireless access point.
In order for devices on the network to connect to the Internet, the router must be connected to a modem. Therefore, most routers have a specific Ethernet port that is designed to connect to the Ethernet port of a cable or DSL modem. A modem is a device that provides access to the Internet (see below). The modem connects to your ISP, which typically provides either cable or DSL Internet service. Cable modems have a coaxial (or coax) connection, which is the same type of connector found on a TV or cable box. This connects to a cable port on the wall
Fotosearch / Getty Images. Definition: A broadband modem is a type of digital modem used with high-speed Internet services like DSL, cable or fiber Internet services. Cable modems connect a home computer (or network of home computers) to residential cable TV service, while DSL modems connect to residential public telephone service.
Telephone Lines. When you connect to the Internet, you might connect through a regular modem, through a local-area network connection in your office, through a cable modem or through a digital subscriber line (DSL) connection. DSL is a very high-speed connection that uses the same wires as a regular telephone line. 
A DSL modem, or digital subscriber line modem, is a home network device used to connect a computer or router to a telephone line for broadband Internet access. This means it is different in execution than the similar cable modem, but ultimately has the same result. 
Broadband Internet service truly is the most used form of Internet access because of its high access speeds; it is offered in four different forms, DSL (or Digital Subscriber Line), also fiber-optic, cable, and satellite. The connection is maintained with the use of a cable or DSL modem. These connect the computer to the cable outlet on the wall, in the case of the cable internet connection; or the DSL modem to the phone line.
Once installed, a broadband connection is always on. The connection is maintained with the use of a cable or DSL modem. These connect the computer to the cable outlet on the wall, in the case of the cable internet connection; or the DSL modem to the phone line.