Labor averages between $700 and $1,200, for a total cost of $1,200 for a small two-cushion sofa, up to $3,000 or more for a large sofa. The cost can rise if you decide to replace the stuffing in cushions, especially if you choose a pricey option like down feathers. New upholstery could give an old couch a new look. As long as the frame is in good shape and not worn out, buckling or sagging, reupholstering is one option for updating the look of a favorite or antique sofa. It is not cheap, but it is usually less expensive than replacing the sofa with one of equal quality.
1 According to ReedUpholstery.com, the cost of reupholstery of a couch varies greatly based on the size and design, but on the average, cost ranges from $600 for an open-arm couch of about 70″ to 85″ in size and can go up to $990 for a closed-arm couch of the same size. 1 The material is another important basis for computation of cost. 2  The material is usually computed by yard. 3  A couch on average uses from 18 to 22 yards of fabric. 4  Some fabrics cost as low as $15 per yard to as high as $180 for fabrics made of silk and wools.
Choosing an Upholsterer. The upholsterer you choose can significantly impact the cost of your couch project. Small, local shops are usually less expensive than design shops. In most cases the total cost of your project will be between $700 and $1,800, according to designer Emily Henderson. If you need to replace cushions and other structural components of the couch, you will need to choose between foam, down and various synthetic fillings. Fiberfill is typically relatively inexpensive, while foam may vary in cost. Down is the most expensive option and ranges from $10 per pound to $25 per pound.
Reupholstering a couch is a significant job and often comes with significant expense, whether done at home as a DIY or professionally. If you have a vintage couch with excellent structure and bones, but worn upholstery, reupholstering can provide you with many more years of comfortable seating. If you need to replace cushions and other structural components of the couch, you will need to choose between foam, down and various synthetic fillings. Fiberfill is typically relatively inexpensive, while foam may vary in cost. Down is the most expensive option and ranges from $10 per pound to $25 per pound.
The overall costs of reupholstering a sofa generally depends with the cost of fabric used, the size of the sofa and the upholsterer you have choose. Depending with the size of your sofa, the costs of reupholstering may range between 400 to 1,200 US dollars. This only depends with the upholsterer you have chosen. To reduce the cost of reupholstering your sofa, it is advisable to first visit the upholstery fabric stores. It is important to note some additional costs of reupholstering a sofa. If your sofa needs additional foam in the cushions or pillows, then this may cost you extra dollars. The cushions may need to be filled with foam instead of using fiberfill.
Considering the extra costs of reupholstering a sofa, then you may find paying around 700 US dollars for an average size sofa and for a large sofa you may pay up to 1,200 US dollars. For this reason, it is important to ensure that your chosen upholsterer has some years of experience and skills. It is important to note some additional costs of reupholstering a sofa. If your sofa needs additional foam in the cushions or pillows, then this may cost you extra dollars. The cushions may need to be filled with foam instead of using fiberfill.
A small sofa – around 19 yards of fabric/$190 plus labor. An average couch – approximately 23 yards of fabric/$239 plus labor. A very large couch – nearly 27 yards of fabric/$270 plus labor. The more complex the couch is, the more expensive you can expect the labor to be.
Labor Costs. The average price to reupholster fluctuates based on the cost of living in your area, but it can start at $1,200 for a two-seat couch, at the time of publication. Basic, solid cotton upholstery fabric starts at $12 per yard at the time of publication, while designer fabric can cost as much as or more than $60 per yard, at the time of publication. For reference, a two-cushion sofa requires 15 yards or more of fabric depending on the design.
Total Cost. The total cost of reupholstering a couch includes fabric, supplies and labor. It varies depending on the size and style of the couch as well as the price of the fabric, which can range from about $11 to $40 per yard. New upholstery could give an old couch a new look. As long as the frame is in good shape and not worn out, buckling or sagging, reupholstering is one option for updating the look of a favorite or antique sofa. It is not cheap, but it is usually less expensive than replacing the sofa with one of equal quality.
For a sofa which has wobbling frame and torn fabric which need replacement, then a 6 to 7 foot sofa may cost you 500 to 800 US dollars to reupholster with fabrics. This is suitable as compared to spending 1,200 US dollars to purchase a new one. It is important to note some additional costs of reupholstering a sofa. If your sofa needs additional foam in the cushions or pillows, then this may cost you extra dollars. The cushions may need to be filled with foam instead of using fiberfill.