Constable's painting is based on a site in Suffolk, near Flatford on the River Stour. The hay wain, a type of horse-drawn cart, stands in the water in the foreground. Across the meadow in the distance on the right, is a group of haymakers at work. The cottage shown on the left was rented by a farmer called Willy Lott and stands behind Flatford Mill.
Constable HayWain was finished in 1821 and shows a haywain near Flatford Mill on the River Stour in Suffolk. 1  John Constable HayWain is revered today as one of the greatest British paintings, but, when it was originally exhibited at the Royal Academy in 1821, it failed to find a buyer. 1 John Constable Haywain hangs in the National Gallery in London today. 2  It was voted the second best painting in any British gallery in a 2005 poll organised by the Today programme in September 2005.
Haywain (painting) redirects here. For the John Constable painting, see The Hay Wain. The Haywain Triptych is a panel painting by Hieronymus Bosch, currently housed in the Museo del Prado, Madrid, Spain. A date of around 1516 has been established by means of dendrochronological research. The central panel, signed Jheronimus Bosch, measures 135 by 200 centimeters and the wings measure 147 x 66 cm
For the Haywain triptych by Hieronymus Bosch, see The Haywain Triptych. The Hay Wain is a painting by John Constable, finished in 1821, which depicts a rural scene on the River Stour between the English counties of Suffolk and Essex. Willy Lott's Cottage, also the subject of an eponymous painting by Constable, is visible on the far left. The scene takes place near Flatford Mill in Suffolk, though since the Stour forms the border of two counties, the left bank is in Suffolk and the landscape on the right bank is in Essex.
Constable HayWain was finished in 1821 and shows a haywain near Flatford Mill on the River Stour in Suffolk. Beautiful, original hand-painted artwork in your home. Paintings based on the masters' works of John Constable.This The Hay Wain needs about 14 - 16days for production by a talented artist. 1  John Constable HayWain is revered today as one of the greatest British paintings, but, when it was originally exhibited at the Royal Academy in 1821, it failed to find a buyer. 
In The Hay Wain John Constable chose to paint a rural landscape which runs into the distance in sun-drenched meadows, offset by the cool waters of the pool in the foreground. The theme of this painting is very much rural life and the beauty of the landscape which the artist loved so much. 
The Hay Wain is one of a series of paintings by Constable called the six-footers, large-scale canvasses which he painted for the annual summer exhibitions at the Royal Academy. Willy Lott's Cottage, also the subject of an eponymous painting by Constable, is visible on the far left. The scene takes place near Flatford Mill in Suffolk, though since the Stour forms the border of two counties, the left bank is in Suffolk and the landscape on the right bank is in Essex.
It hangs in the National Gallery in London and is regarded as Constable's most famous image and one of the greatest and most popular English paintings. Painted in oils on canvas, the work depicts as its central feature three horses pulling a hay wain or large farm cart across the river. Willy Lott's Cottage, also the subject of an eponymous painting by Constable, is visible on the far left. The scene takes place near Flatford Mill in Suffolk, though since the Stour forms the border of two counties, the left bank is in Suffolk and the landscape on the right bank is in Essex.
The Haywain by John Constable, is probably one of the most famous of all English paintings. Many a home has a print, but relatively few people know the story behind it. The work was based on many sketches he had produced, many of which still survive. In 1824 The Haywain was exhibited in Paris, where it won a gold medal. The painting caused a stir amongst the French art critics, who were astonished by its freshness.