It wasn't a war. It was called a war due to the lack of an easier term to say. The cold war meant no shooting, no killing...if it was a real shooting war, it would've been a … hot war (guns get hot when fired and fire is hot). The cold war was an arm's race; one upmanship on the other.
It wasn't a war. It was called a war due to the lack of an easier term to say. The cold war meant no shooting, no killing...if it was a real shooting war, it would've been a … hot war (guns get hot when fired and fire is hot). The cold war was an arm's race; one upmanship on the other.
It is called the cold war since both sides have not fought or neither made peace. None of both sides retreated but none also attacked. No one arranged for peace and no one assaulted either. It is a silent tension between both sides that is waiting and observing before attacking.
The Cold War began after World War II. It was between the United States and the Soviet Union. It was called the Cold War because both nations were afraid to fight one another directly, so they they did it indirectly.
The Cold War is called the Cold War, but it was not a war in which the opposing sides fought as they do in other wars. They used all methods short of war to avoid fighting an … actual war with each other. That is why it was called the Cold War.
It is called the cold war because America and Russia didn't really fight or go to war with each other. Instead they competed by spending large amounts of money on weapons, a space race and propaganda.
The Cold War is called the Cold War, but it was not a war in which the opposing sides fought as they do in other wars. They used all methods short of war to avoid fighting an … actual war with each other. That is why it was called the Cold War. Many smaller wars were fought in the Third World, but the Free World and Communism averted a world war with each other. I describe the Cold War was a condition of official non-war in which both sides did their untmost to ruin each other. I hope that makes sense.