theophylline. an alkaloid derived from tea or produced synthetically; it is a smooth muscle relaxant used chiefly for its bronchodilator effect in the treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, emphysema, bronchial asthma, chronic bronchitis, and bronchospastic distress. 
Theophylline is in a class of drugs called bronchodilators, which relax your bronchial smooth muscles, widening air passageways in your respiratory tract (the bronchi and bronchioles). Theophylline is excreted in breast milk, potentially causing irritability and other signs of mild toxicity in breastfeeding infants. It's not likely to cause serious side effects in infants unless the breastfeeding mother has very high concentrations of the drug in her body.
Theophylline extended-release tablets in Japan. Theophylline, also known as 1,3-dimethylxanthine, is a methylxanthine drug used in therapy for respiratory diseases such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and asthma under a variety of brand names. Theophylline is excreted unchanged in the urine (up to 10%). Clearance of the drug is increased in these conditions: children 1 to 12, teenagers 12 to 16, adult smokers, elderly smokers, cystic fibrosis, hyperthyroidism.
Uses of This Medicine. Theophylline is used together with other medicines to treat the symptoms of asthma, bronchitis, emphysema, and other lung diseases. Theophylline belongs to a group of medicines known as bronchodilators. Bronchodilators are medicines that relax the muscles in the bronchial tubes (air passages) of the lungs. They relieve cough, wheezing, shortness of breath, and troubled breathing by increasing the flow of air through the bronchial tubes. 
The main actions of theophylline involve: 1  relaxing bronchial smooth muscle. 2  increasing heart muscle contractility and efficiency; as a positive inotropic. 3  increasing heart rate: (positive chronotropic). 4  increasing blood pressure. 5  increasing renal blood flow. 6  anti-inflammatory effects. Theophylline is excreted unchanged in the urine (up to 10%). Clearance of the drug is increased in these conditions: children 1 to 12, teenagers 12 to 16, adult smokers, elderly smokers, cystic fibrosis, hyperthyroidism.
What is theophylline: Theophylline is a bronchodilator which relaxes muscles in the lungs and chest. Theophylline is used in the treatment of heart failure, asthma, bronchitis, and pulmonary edema. Theophylline may also be used for purposes other than those listed in this medication guide. What is the most important information I should know about theophylline: Always check the medicine when it is refilled to make sure you are getting the correct brand and type as prescribed by your veterinarian. Ask the pharmacist if you have any questions about the medication you received from the pharmacy.
Theophylline is a prescription medicine that is used for the treatment of airway spasms caused by asthma or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). 
1 Review. Theophylline is the generic name for the prescription drugs Uniphyl (in Canada) and Theo-24. It's used to treat airflow obstruction symptoms such as wheezing, shortness of breath, and chest tightness related to asthma and lung diseases, including emphysema and chronic bronchitis. Theophylline is excreted in breast milk, potentially causing irritability and other signs of mild toxicity in breastfeeding infants. It's not likely to cause serious side effects in infants unless the breastfeeding mother has very high concentrations of the drug in her body.
Definition of THEOPHYLLINE. : a feebly basic bitter crystalline compound C7H8N4O2 present in tea leaves that is isomeric with theobromine and is used in medicine especially as a bronchodilator. ADVERTISEMENT. 
Background. Theophylline (1,3-dimethylxanthins) can indirectly stimulate both β 1 and β 2 receptors through release of endogenous catecholamines. It is used for the treatment of pulmonary conditions, including asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). In neonates, theophylline can be used for the treatment of apnea. 