Crushed basalt is used to make asphalt and as a component in concrete, roads and driveways -- it was even used to make roadways in ancient Rome. This igneous, or volcanic, stone has also been used to sculpt and craft decorations and artifacts large and small, from the huge statues on Easter Island to the Rosetta Stone. Basalt is a common hard stone that is even found on the moon and on planets besides Earth. Since it is durable and abundant, it is used for a variety of purposes, from building roads to grindstones, countertops and sculptures.
Geology of Basalt. A volcanic (igneous) stone that has been used in architecture for centuries and is thought to be one of the main components of oceanic crust. The fissures and small holes in the surface are evidence of the earth’s natural gasses flowing through and escaping from the stone. Basaltina, one of the premium basalts in Stone Source's catalog of materials, has a particularly rich history. It is quarried near Rome and was used by the ancient Romans to build roads and monuments. Examples of its uses in architecture can still be seen still today.
By definition, basalt is an aphanitic igneous rock with less than 20% quartz and less than 10% feldspathoid by volume, and where at least 65% of the feldspar is in the form of plagioclase. Basalt features a glassy matrix interspersed with minerals. Basalt is used in construction (e.g. as building blocks or in the groundwork), making cobblestones (from columnar basalt) and in making statues. Heating and extruding basalt yields stone wool, said to be an excellent thermal insulator.
Basalt is a dark-colored, fine-grained, igneous rock composed mainly of plagioclase and pyroxene minerals. It most commonly forms as an extrusive rock, such as a lava flow, but can also form in small intrusive bodies, such as an igneous dike or a thin sill. It has a composition similar to gabbro. The difference between basalt and gabbro is that basalt is a fine-grained rock while gabbro is a coarse-grained rock. Basalt underlies more of Earth's surface than any other rock type. Most areas within Earth's ocean basins are underlain by basalt.
Basalt is used for a wide variety of purposes. It is most commonly crushed for use as an aggregate in construction projects. Crushed basalt is used for road base, concrete aggregate, asphalt pavement aggregate, railroad ballast, filter stone in drain fields and may other purposes. Basalt is also cut into dimension stone. It has a composition similar to gabbro. The difference between basalt and gabbro is that basalt is a fine-grained rock while gabbro is a coarse-grained rock. Basalt underlies more of Earth's surface than any other rock type. Most areas within Earth's ocean basins are underlain by basalt.
Home Basalt. Basalt is a volcanic stone that has been used in architecture for centuries. Basaltina, one of the premium basalts in Stone Source's catalog of materials, has a particularly rich history. It is quarried near Rome and was used by the ancient Romans to build roads and monuments. Examples of its uses in architecture can still be seen still today.
Basalt is the most common volcanic rock: It is formed as the volcanic magma erupts onto the surface or even in the water and undergoes a rapid cooling process. It has varying shades of grey to black. The fast cooling process makes the creation of the minerals almost invisible, making it a fine-grained substance. · Modern Use. Today, basalt is used to a lot of things. Most common use of. is as aggregates. Basalts that are crushed are used for construction purposes, like asphalt paving, concrete aggregate and rock filtering agents. Basalts are added as aggregates to increase strength to concrete.