1 Diabetes is a chronic condition associated with abnormally high levels of sugar (glucose) in the blood. 2  Insulin produced by the pancreas lowers blood glucose. 3  Absence or insufficient production of insulin causes diabetes. 4  The two types of diabetes are referred to as type 1 and type 2. 1 Symptoms of diabetes include increased urine output, thirst, hunger, and fatigue. 2  Diabetes is diagnosed by blood sugar (glucose) testing. 3  The major complications of diabetes are both acute and chronic.
Signs and Symptoms. There are three main types of diabetes: Type 1 Diabetes: About 5 to 10 percent of those with diabetes have type 1 diabetes. It's an autoimmune disease, meaning the body's own immune system mistakenly attacks and destroys the insulin-producing cells in the pancreas.
Some people, especially those with prediabetes or type 2 diabetes, may not experience symptoms initially. In type 1 diabetes, symptoms tend to come on quickly and be more severe. Some of the signs and symptoms of type 1 and type 2 diabetes are: 1  Increased thirst. 2  Frequent urination. 3  Extreme hunger. 4  Unexplained weight loss. 5  Presence of ketones in the urine (ketones are a byproduct of the breakdown of muscle and fat that happens when there's not enough available insulin). 6  Fatigue. 7  Irritability
1 In type 1 diabetes, the body does not produce enough insulin. 2  People with type 2 diabetes can produce insulin, but the body is not able to use the insulin effectively. 3  Symptoms of both type 1 and type 2 diabetes include. 4  excessive thirst, 5  excessive hunger, 6  weight loss, 7  fatigue, and. 8  excessive urination. 1 People with type 2 diabetes can produce insulin, but the body is not able to use the insulin effectively. 2  Symptoms of both type 1 and type 2 diabetes include. 3  excessive thirst, 4  excessive hunger, 5  weight loss, 6  fatigue, and. 7  excessive urination. 8  The cause of type 1 diabetes is believed to be an autoimmune reaction.
Diabetes facts. 1  Diabetes is a chronic condition associated with abnormally high levels of sugar (glucose) in the blood. 2  Insulin produced by the pancreas lowers blood glucose. 3  Absence or insufficient production of insulin causes diabetes. 4  The two types of diabetes are referred to as type 1 and type 2. 1 Symptoms of diabetes include increased urine output, thirst, hunger, and fatigue. 2  Diabetes is diagnosed by blood sugar (glucose) testing. 3  The major complications of diabetes are both acute and chronic.
Diabetes mellitus type 2 (formerly noninsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) or adult-onset diabetes) is a metabolic disorder that is characterized by hyperglycemia (high blood sugar) in the context of insulin resistance and relative lack of insulin. The classic symptoms are excess thirst, frequent urination, and constant hunger. Type 2 diabetes makes up about 90% of cases of diabetes, with the other 10% due primarily to diabetes mellitus type 1 and gestational diabetes.
Symptoms of Diabetes. In the early stages of type 2 diabetes mellitus, there are no symptoms until blood glucose levels exceed the renal threshold and glucose appears in the urine. Patients may first present with a complication such as neuropathy or retinopathy. 
Definition. Diabetes mellitus is a condition in which the pancreas no longer produces enough insulin or cells stop responding to the insulin that is produced, so that glucose in the blood cannot be absorbed into the cells of the body. Symptoms include frequent urination, lethargy, excessive thirst, and hunger.
Diabetes mellitus (DM), commonly referred to as diabetes, is a group of metabolic diseases in which there are high blood sugar levels over a prolonged period. Symptoms of high blood sugar include frequent urination, increased thirst, and increased hunger. If left untreated, diabetes can cause many complications. Type 1 diabetes mellitus is characterized by loss of the insulin-producing beta cells of the islets of Langerhans in the pancreas, leading to insulin deficiency. This type can be further classified as immune-mediated or idiopathic.
Diabetes (Diabetes Mellitus). A disease in which the body does not control the amount of glucose (a type of sugar) in the blood and the kidneys make a large amount of urine. This disease occurs when the body does not make enough insulin or does not use it the way it should. Oral anti‐diabetic agents for women with pre‐existing diabetes mellitus, impaired glucose tolerance or previous gestational diabetes mellitus. Pregnant women with type 1 or type 2 diabetes are at a greater risk of adverse outcomes in pregnancy, such as miscarriage or large babies and preterm birth.