• MESENTERIC ARTERY (noun). The noun MESENTERIC ARTERY has 1 sense: 1. one of two branches of the aorta that pass between the two layers of the mesentery to the intestines. Familiarity information: MESENTERIC ARTERY used as a noun is very rare. Dictionary entry details. Hypernyms (mesenteric artery is a kind of...): arteria; arterial blood vessel; artery (a blood vessel that carries blood from the heart to the body). Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of mesenteric artery): inferior mesenteric artery (arises near the lower end of the aorta and supplies the large intestine).
mesenteric torsion. torsion of the mesenteric root, causing ischemia of the mesentery and intestine so that the tissue is devitalized and the animal dies quickly of shock and toxemia. mesenteric vessel thrombosis. causes thromboembolic colic. mesenteric abscess. in horses causes a syndrome of subacute abdominal pain, due usually to the coexistence of thromboembolic colic, plus the toxemia of the abscess and a commonly concurrent peritonitis. mesenteric arteritis. see verminous
Noun. 1. mesenteric artery-one of two branches of the aorta that pass between the two layers of the mesentery to the intestines. arteria mesenterica. arteria, arterial blood vessel, artery-a blood vessel that carries blood from the heart to the body. superior mesenteric artery-originates from the upper part of the aorta that supplies the small intestines and the cecum and the colon.
Mesenteric Panniculitis is a rare inflammatory disease that affects the subcutaneous adipose tissue of the mesentery or the small bowel area that is characterized by blockage to the small intestine. Mesenteric Panniculitis Causes. There is no known specific cause of the disease and until today it is still unclear for those who are in the medical profession. However, there are some predisposing factors that can lead to the development of the disease.
The mesoappendix is the portion of the mesentery connecting the ileum to the appendix. It may extend to the tip of the appendix. It encloses the appendicular artery and vein, as well as lymphatic vessels, nerves, and often a lymph node. During mobilization of the small intestinal mesentery from the posterior abdominal wall, this fold is incised, allowing access to the interface between the small intestinal mesentery and the retroperitoneum.
mesenteric. pertaining to or emanating from the mesentery. mesenteric abscess. in horses causes a syndrome of subacute abdominal pain, due usually to the coexistence of thromboembolic colic, plus the toxemia of the abscess and a commonly concurrent peritonitis. mesenteric arteritis. see verminous mesenteric arteritis.
The mesenteric lymph nodes lie between the layers of the mesentery. They vary from one hundred to one hundred and fifty in number, and may be grouped into three sets, viz.: 1  one lying close to the wall of the small intestine, among the terminal twigs of the superior mesenteric artery; 
Mesenteric lymph nodes are the 100 to 150 lymph nodes that lie within the mesentery, a double-layered section of peritoneum, the membrane that lines the abdominal cavity. A large intestine infection can cause inflamed mesenteric lymph nodes. Mesenteric lymph nodes are usually discovered during an abdominal CAT scan. The symptoms of mesenteric lymphadenitis are similar to the symptoms of appendicitis.
The mesentery is a fold of membranous tissue that arises from the posterior wall of the peritoneal cavity and attaches to the intestinal tract. Within it are the arteries and veins that supply the intestine. During mobilization of the small intestinal mesentery from the posterior abdominal wall, this fold is incised, allowing access to the interface between the small intestinal mesentery and the retroperitoneum.