How old can I get and still act young?. Neal Unger, 60 year old proves that you can never be too old to have fun on a skateboard. This is so damn inspiring. Skateboarding truly is a gift. Source: http://theberrics.com/news/proof-that... Random Stuff: http://randomcebu.blogspot.com/
A Complete skateboard is one that comes fully built. A good quality complete skateboard for an adult will usually cost around $120, so most people don't want to spend that much on a six year old's new hobby! What size of skateboard? - This is a good question, but at this stage (as a kid) the size of the skateboard isn't so important. SkateXS makes high grade skateboards for kids ages 5-10. While some of the other brands listed below make smaller, kid sized boards, SkateXS does the same but with the highest pro grade parts that I've seen on a board sized for kids.
1 Tip: Introduce very young children to skating at a roller skating rink where toddlers and preschoolers can walk on locked roller skate wheels. 2  Children don't get wet or cold in roller skating rinks and usually don't cry even when they fall while roller skating. Schneider-Farris Personal Photo. 1 
Some parents who skate will put their children on skates right after they are walking confidently. Children as young as three years old may be ready to skate, and there are many daytime skating sessions at roller rinks around the country that cater to pre-school skaters and their parents. Many parents think inline and roller skating activities are only for school-aged children or older. But, skating in any form can be a good fitness, fun and social activity for young skaters between the ages of three and six, too.
* Children under age 5 years old should never ride a skateboard. * Children aged 6 to 10 years old need close supervision from an adult or trustworthy adolescent whenever they ride a skateboard. When young children are involved in skateboarding accidents, they are often injured severely. 
Very young children can ice skate: Some parents get their children on skates and on the ice as soon as they are able to walk, but the ideal age to begin tot ice skating lessons is at about three or four. Some ice arenas will not accept children under three into their skating classes. Parents of three and four year old ice skaters may see some marching and gliding on the ice, but complex figure skating techniques can't be mastered until a child is about five or six. 1 Children don't get wet or cold in roller skating rinks and usually don't cry even when they fall while roller skating. 2  Once a child can roll around on roller skates, the transition to ice skates comes easily. 3  Weekly group tot ice skating lessons are usually no longer than 30 minutes.
While generic skateboards can be okay for very young children to start on, a 9 year old will very quickly become frustrated when his board barely rolls and won't turn when he leans. A 9 year old should get a regular sized board on the small side - 7.5'' wide or so. Advice on skateboard size for a 4 yr old and local skate stores etc. would be really helpful. (Please, no posts about safety/danger.) Thanks!! Cathy I learned to skateboard at a pretty young age and offer the following bits. Look for a narrower board.
Theoretically, a child can learn to roller skate as young as two or three years old, but it depends largely on your child. Most kids have the ability and interest to start skating around the age of four or five. Tips for teaching your child to skate. 1  Make sure your child has the coordination to stand on one foot for a few seconds at a time and to skip. 2  Start out by holding your child’s hand or holding your child up by the armpits while you follow behind. 3  Better yet, rent a skate mat
On average, about 52% of skateboard injuries involve children under age 15. Most of the children injured are boys (average 85%). Many injuries happen when a child loses balance, falls off the skateboard and lands on an outstretched arm. Skateboarding injuries often involve the wrist, ankle, or face. According to the American Academy of Pediatrics, children under age 5 years should not ride skateboards. Children aged 6 to 10 years old need close supervision from an adult whenever they ride a skateboard.