A bulging annulus means the edge of the disc adjacent to the spine (usually) has bulged posteriorly and may dent or impinge upon the spinal sac, the nerve roots, or the spinal cord. An annular fissure is a crack or tear or the disc annulus (the outer coating of the disc, as opposed to the center part (nucleus). it basically means that there is a small herniation (or bulging out) of one of the disks in your spine. L4-L5 is the position of the disk in your spine, and refers to Lumbar … spine disk 4 and 5, aka it is to do with your lower spine.
Annular fissures are a degenerative deficiency of one or more layers that make up the annulus fibrosus of the intervertebral disc. Many authors prefer the term annular fissure over annular tear, as the latter seems to imply acute injury 1,2. In the setting of severe trauma with disruption of the disc, then the term disc rupture should be used. The term annular gap (referring to a relatively wide annular fissure) is non-standard 2
An annular disc tear is when the substance of the annulus fibrosus rips or tears, allowing the highly pressurized and nucleus pulposus to escape outward toward the outer third of the disc. + 30 others found this useful. An annular tear is a tear in the disc. This is what the radiologist says you have when he sees a tear in the disc but nothing protruding through it.   The question of whether an annular tear can actually cause pain is controversial. Some authorities say it can, some say it can't.
Annular Tear Overview. An annular tear — also known as an annular fissure — is a rupture or opening in the annulus fibrosus, the tough outer layer of the cushioning discs that sit between the bones in the spine. When the gel-like substance inside the disc leaks out, it can come in contact with spinal nerves and trigger pain. An annular tear can occur in the cervical spine, creating neck pain, and in the lumbar spine, creating pain or other sensations that may radiate down a single leg or both legs. The pain is often grows worse during lifting or bending motions, sneezing, coughing, sitting and standing.
1 The annular tear is a tearing of the disc external surface that may occur with the aging process or with injury. 2  The annulus may thin or bulge or weaken to the point that disc material may extrude into the spinal canal. Lumbar Annular Tear. 1  A lumbar annular tear occurs usually with a disc herniation. 2 
Terminology. Many authors prefer the term annular fissure over annular tear, as the latter seems to imply acute injury 1,2. In the setting of severe trauma with disruption of the disc, then the term disc rupture should be used. The term annular gap (referring to a relatively wide annular fissure) is non-standard 2
An annular disc tear is when the substance of the annulus fibrosus rips or tears, allowing the highly pressurized and nucleus pulposus to escape outward toward the outer third of the disc. + 30 others found this useful. Kerry Donnelly Wisner. it basically means that there is a small herniation (or bulging out) of one of the disks in your spine. L4-L5 is the position of the disk in your spine, and refers to Lumbar … spine disk 4 and 5, aka it is to do with your lower spine.
Disc Tear (Annular Tear) admin 2015-08-14T17:46:44+00:00. A disc or annular-tear (or fissure) represents a degenerative or traumatic change in an interveterbral disc 1. These tears involve separations or breaks in the fibers comprising the annulus fibrosus, or the fibrous outer-most portion of an intervertebral disc. 
The annulus can tear or rupture anywhere around the disc. If it tears and no disc material is ruptured, this is called an annular tear. The outer 1/3 of the disc’s annular ring is highly innervated with pain fibers. Thus, if a tear involves the outer 1/3 it may be extremely painful. This tear will heal with scar tissue over time but is more prone to future tears and injury.