A herbivore is an animal that gets its energy from eating plants, and only plants. Omnivores can also eat parts of plants, but generally only the fruits and vegetables produced by fruit-bearing plants. Many herbivores have special digestive systems that let them digest all kinds of plants, including grasses.
Carnivores like herbivores are in the second level of the food chain. Unlike herbivores that eat mainly plants, carnivores eat mainly other animals. Most carnivores get their energy and nutrients from eating herbivores so they are called secondary consumers.
[Spider] [Lion]. Most carnivores in the food chain are called predators. A predator is an animal that hunts for and kills other animals for food. The animals that predators hunt are called prey. There are many different kinds of carnivores from small spiders that catch and eat flies, to lions that hunt and kill their food.
Since carnivores have to hunt down and kill other animals they require a large amount of calories. This means that they have to eat many other animals over the course of the year. The bigger the carnivore, the more it has to eat. You should make sure that you have many more herbivores and omnivores than carnivores.
A carnivore /ˈkɑrnɪvɔər/ meaning 'meat eater' (Latin, caro meaning 'meat' or 'flesh' and vorare meaning 'to devour') is an organism that derives its energy and nutrient requirements from a diet consisting mainly or exclusively of animal tissue, whether through predation or scavenging.
Carnivores (Carnivora) are a group of mammals that consists of about 250 species. Carnivores include dogs, wolves, foxes, coyotes, bears, raccoons, mustelids, sea lions, fur seals, civits, hyenas, aardwolves, wolverines and cats. Carnivores are well-suited to a hunting lifestyle.
Full Definition of CARNIVORE. 1. : any of an order (Carnivora) of typically flesh-eating mammals that includes dogs, foxes, bears, raccoons, and cats; broadly: a carnivorous animal. 2. : a carnivorous plant.
Carnivores are a type of predator that survives by eating the meat of other animals. These predators have adapted behaviorally and physically to hunt, kill and consume their prey. Carnivores also play a key role in keeping other animal populations in check, thus maintaining a balanced ecosystem.