1 For example, say you want to calculate the EPS of Microsoft based on its net income. 2  A quick browse of Microsoft's website tells you that in 2012, the company's net income was almost $17 billion. 3  Be careful not to mistake a company's quarterly net income with their annual net income. Weighted EPS is a more accurate calculation because it takes into account any dividends that the company issues to shareholders. However, this formula is more complex than the basic earnings per share calculation or the reporting term, so it is not used quite as often even though it is more accurate. 2.
Earnings per share (EPS) is a commonly used phrase in the financial world. Earnings per share represents a portion of a company's profit that is allocated to one share of stock. Therefore, if you were to multiply the EPS by the total number of shares a company has, you'd calculate the company's net income. Weighted EPS is a more accurate calculation because it takes into account any dividends that the company issues to shareholders. However, this formula is more complex than the basic earnings per share calculation or the reporting term, so it is not used quite as often even though it is more accurate. 2.
Part 1 of 2: Calculating the Ratio. 1. Know the formula. The formula for calculating P/E is simple: The market value per share divided by the earnings per share. 1  Market value per share is simply how much it costs to buy a share of any publicly-traded company on the stock Market. 2  On August 23, 2013, for example, it cost $40.55 to buy one share of Facebook. 
For more information on earnings per share and revenue, visit Learning Markets. If revenue tells us how much money is flowing into the company, EPS tells us how much of that money is flowing down to stock holders. EPS tells you how much money the company is making in profits per every outstanding share of stock. The next fundamental factor in the NASDAQ Dozen is earnings per share (EPS). You will find the EPS information by clicking on the Revenue/EPS for WMT link under Fundamentals in the left menu of the quotes area (see Figure 4).
A: Earnings per share (EPS) is the portion of a company’s profit that is allocated to each outstanding share of common stock, serving as an indicator of the company’s profitability. The formula for calculating EPS would then be: EPS = (net income – dividends on preferred stock) / average outstanding common shares. In our example, MHFI had and EPS of 89 cents for the first quarter of 2014.
1. Locate the company's net earning or net income from the previous year. This information can be found on most financial webpages, or on the company's website. Using the company's net earnings or income as the primary number in the calculation is the most basic way of determining EPS. 1  For example, say you want to calculate the EPS of Microsoft based on its net income. Weighted EPS is a more accurate calculation because it takes into account any dividends that the company issues to shareholders. However, this formula is more complex than the basic earnings per share calculation or the reporting term, so it is not used quite as often even though it is more accurate. 2.
Earnings per share, or EPS, is an important number for shareholders and potential investors because it tells them how much income is generated for each share of stock. The formula for calculating earnings per share is: Net income, or net profit, is found on the Income Statement. One of the factors used to figure earnings per share is the company's Net Income. Net income is the profit left over after deducting the company's expenses and is sometimes referred to as Net Profit or the bottom line. Net income can be gotten from the company's
Earnings per share serves as an indicator of a company's profitability. Calculated as: When calculating, it is more accurate to use a weighted average number of shares outstanding over the reporting term, because the number of shares outstanding can change over time. Earnings per share (EPS) is the portion of a company’s profit that is allocated to each outstanding share of common stock, ... Earnings per share (EPS) serves as an indicator of a company’s profitability. It is often considered to be one of the most ...
A company’s earnings per share, or EPS, is a key financial metric on its income statement that investors and analysts use to assess its performance and stock price. EPS is the net income, or profit, a company generates during a period for each share of common stock it has outstanding. 