Report Abuse. While officially the languages they speak are called German, French and Italian, they actually speak different versions of those languages, known as Swiss German, Swiss French and Swiss Italian. There is a fourth language, known as Rumantsch or Romanesc.
We've got four official languages that are spoken in Switzerland; three of them belong to the most important languages in Europe: 64% speak German, 20% French, 6.5% Italian, and 0.5% Rumantsch Grischun (Romansh) , and all have the right to address the federal assembly in their own language.
Approximately 20% of the Swiss population speak French as their first language. French is spoken in the western part of Switzerland, including the cities of Geneva and Lausa … nne. There are 4 official languages in Switzerland. In order of the percentage of the population which speak them they are: German (63.7%), French (20.4%), Italian (6.5%) and Romansh (0.5%).
Approximately 20% of the Swiss population speak French as their first language. French is spoken in the western part of Switzerland, including the cities of Geneva and Lausa … nne. There are 4 official languages in Switzerland. In order of the percentage of the population which speak them they are: German (63.7%), French (20.4%), Italian (6.5%) and Romansh (0.5%).
French is the first language spoken by most locals in Geneva, Switzerland. However, it does have its own accent that often gets referred to as Swiss French. The other three official languages spoken in Switzerland are Swiss German, Italian, and Romanche.
Due to massive immigration (20% of the resident Swiss population are non-naturalized foreigners, 50% do have at least one parent that has not been born in the country!), there are many individuals who will not say they speak one of the four official languages of Switzerland when asked for their mother tongue.
Switzerland's four official languages, traditionally spoken in different regions of the country, are German, French, Italian and Rumantsch [sometimes also transcribed as Romansh, Romansch Rhaeto-Romanic or even Romance etc.]).
Best Answer: Switzerland has three official languages: French, German and Italian. French is the predominant language spoken in Geneva, but most citizens speak at least one other language. English is spoken by about a quarter of the local population and by the majority of foreigners.