The hiatus is an opening in the diaphragm -- the muscular wall separating the chest cavity from the abdomen. Normally, the esophagus (food pipe) goes through the hiatus and attaches to the stomach. In a hiatal hernia (also called hiatus hernia) the stomach bulges up into the chest through that opening. There are two main types of hiatal hernias: sliding and paraesophageal (next to the esophagus). The esophagus and stomach stay in their normal locations, but part of the stomach squeezes through the hiatus, landing it next to the esophagus. Although you can have this type of hernia without any symptoms, the danger is that the stomach can become strangled, or have its blood supply shut off.
Inguinal hernias can lead to potentially fatal complications, so most of the time doctors recommend surgery to repair them, according to Mayo Clinic. Some inguinal hernias can be repaired without surgical intervention, although this is usually reserved for minor hernias that do not cause much pain. Symptoms of hiatal hernias, such as heartburn, belching and middle chest pain, can get worse if you recline after a meal. Avoid tobacco, alcohol, and spicy and highly acidic foods and drinks, such as tomato-based products and citrus juices, to help relieve hiatal hernia symptoms, according to FAQs.org.
Repairing a Hiatal Hernia and Acid Reflux Surgery. A hiatal hernia is a type of hernia that can be common in people over the age of 50. It differs from other types of hernias because it’s completely internal and shows no visible symptoms. Hiatal hernias can cause acid reflux, or GERD, in a patient once fully developed. Hiatal hernias are most commonly treated without the need for surgery. A good portion of the time, patients don’t even know they have a hiatal hernia unless it becomes symptomatic. Medications, therapy, and lifestyle changes are most often used as treatment options for hiatal hernias.
Repair of Hiatal Hernia. Hiatal Hernia: The esophagus passes through an opening in the diaphragm (i.e. esophageal hiatus) as it courses through the chest to the abdomen eventually ending at the stomach. This opening is usually adequate for passage of the esophagus and nothing else. However, patients that have a hiatal hernia have an enlarged opening.
Most people do not experience any symptoms of their hiatal hernia so no treatment is necessary. However, the paraesophageal hernia (when part of the stomach squeezes through the hiatus) can sometimes cause the stomach to be strangled, so surgery is sometimes recommended. Other symptoms that may occur along with the hernia such as chest pain should be properly evaluated. If the hiatal hernia is in danger of becoming constricted or strangulated (so that the blood supply is cut off), surgery may be needed to reduce the hernia, meaning put it back where it belongs. Hiatal hernia surgery can often be performed as a laparoscopic, or minimally invasive, procedure.
A hiatal hernia occurs when part of your stomach pushes upward through your diaphragm. Your diaphragm normally has a small opening (hiatus) through which your food tube (esophagus) passes on its way to connect to your stomach. The stomach can push up through this opening and cause a hiatal hernia. 
A Honor Society of Nursing (STTI) answered. A hiatal hernia can be cured with surgery. Fortunately, less than 5 percent of hiatal hernias are severe enough to require surgical repair. Most hiatal hernias cause few symptoms. Medications are usually effective in managing symptoms. If surgery is needed, there are different types of surgery that either involves a single incision or several smaller incisions in the chest or abdomen. During surgery the diaphragm muscle and hiatus opening are repaired.
When this is the case, laparoscopic surgery can be used to fix the hernia and Transoral Incisionless Fundoplication (TIF) is performed to treat the reflux. TIF is a minimally-invasive surgical procedure used to relieve GERD in a patient. TIF is a new favorable alternative to traditional antireflux surgery. Hiatal hernias are most commonly treated without the need for surgery. A good portion of the time, patients don’t even know they have a hiatal hernia unless it becomes symptomatic. Medications, therapy, and lifestyle changes are most often used as treatment options for hiatal hernias.
When a part of the abdominal wall is weak or tears, a part of the intestine can push through the opening, resulting in a hernia. Inguinal hernias cause a bulge in the abdomen or groin and are often painful and uncomfortable. Symptoms of hiatal hernias, such as heartburn, belching and middle chest pain, can get worse if you recline after a meal. Avoid tobacco, alcohol, and spicy and highly acidic foods and drinks, such as tomato-based products and citrus juices, to help relieve hiatal hernia symptoms, according to FAQs.org.