President Bill Clinton and Vice President Al Gore attend Cal Ripken's 2,131 game and become first to attend a game together while in office. 01-20-2001. President George W. Bush is the first managing general partner of a Major League team (the Texas Rangers) to become President of the United States. President William H. Taft attends his third Major League baseball game and is first U.S. President to see three games while in office (He goes on to see fourteen games while in office). President William H. Taft threw out the first season Opening Day pitch to Walter Johnson.
1993 January: President George H.W. Bush leaves the White House, defeated by Bill Clinton. September: George W. Bush announces his intention to run for governor of Texas in 1994, making the decision after expressing some interest in the baseball commissioner's job that has been vacated by Fay Vincent. October: While helping manage his father's presidential bid, George W. Bush learns that Bush family friend and Fort Worth oil man Eddie Chiles is putting the Texas Rangers up for sale.
Almost every single U.S. President has had some connection, good or bad, with our national pastime. Throwing the first pitch, hosting a team in the Oval Office, receiving a lifetime field pass and many other historic events have taken place with sitting presidents, future presidents and previous presidents.
President Harry Truman went to sixteen games while in office and he still holds the Major League record for games attended while in office. President Warren Harding played with future players, owned a Minor League baseball team and saw the first Yankee Stadium shutout. Throwing the first pitch, hosting a team in the Oval Office, receiving a lifetime field pass and many other historic events have taken place with sitting presidents, future presidents and previous presidents.
George W. Bush. This article covers the professional life of George W. Bush, the 43rd President of the United States. Prior to his election as President in 2000, Bush held numerous other positions, including being an oil executive, a Major League Baseball franchise owner, and Governor of Texas. In April 1989, Bush assembled a group of investors from his father's close friends, including fellow fraternity brother Roland W. Betts; the group bought an 86% share of the Rangers for $75 million. Bush received a 2% share by investing $606,302, of which $500,000 was a bank loan.
The sequence of events related to the purchase and sale of the Texas Rangers by George W. Bush and his partners: 1988 October: While helping manage his father's presidential bid, George W. Bush learns that Bush family friend and Fort Worth oil man Eddie Chiles is putting the Texas Rangers up for sale. (His father is elected president in November.).
William Howard Taft served as the 27th United States President from 1909 to 1913 and was the first president to throw out the first ball at a Major League Baseball season opener. On April 14, 1910, Taft threw out the ball before the Washington Senators beat the Philadelphia Athletics. Various sources say that he was a third baseman on the Yale University baseball team when he was a student there in the 1870s, but that story is likely incorrect. He was however an avid golfer who played the sport well into his later years. Taft's half brother Charles Taft owned the Chicago Cubs for a brief time.
Major League Baseball (MLB) is a professional baseball organization that is the oldest of the four major professional sports leagues in the United States and Canada. A total of 30 teams now play in the American League (AL) and National League (NL), with 15 teams in each league. 
George W. Bush was the U.S. President that owns a Major League  Baseball team. The team he owns is the Texas Rangers. There are many but the players that played the most seasons for the same team are Brooks Robinson (1955-1977) of the Baltimore Orioles and Carl Yastrzemski (1961-1983) of the … Boston Red Sox. Both spent 23 seasons with the same team.
The Presidents of the United States have embraced baseball since George Washington played rounders at Valley Forge. Baseball Almanac has researched the presidential-baseball relationships and is proud to present a historical breakdown of famous firsts as they relate to baseball and U.S. Presidents. President William H. Taft attends his third Major League baseball game and is first U.S. President to see three games while in office (He goes on to see fourteen games while in office). President William H. Taft threw out the first season Opening Day pitch to Walter Johnson.