All of these cells are generated from a single, totipotent cell—the zygote, or fertilized egg. Most scientists use the term pluripotent to describe stem cells that can give rise to cells derived from all three embryonic germ layers— mesoderm, endoderm, and ectoderm. These three germ layers are the embryonic source of all cells of the body (see Figure 1.1. Differentiation of Human Tissues). All of the many different kinds of specialized cells that make up the body are derived from one of these germ layers (see Table 1.1. 
Rate This Paper: Germinal epithelium known as Germ Layer is a group of cells, formed during animal embryogenesis. Few primitive animals’ tissues are derived from two germ layers, the endoderm and ectoderm; while most animals are derived from three germ layers, the ectoderm, mesoderm and endoderm.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. In all bilaterian animals, the mesoderm is one of the three primary germ layers in the very early embryo. The other two layers are the ectoderm (outside layer) and endoderm (inside layer), with the mesoderm as the middle layer between them. The mesoderm forms mesenchyme, mesothelium, non-epithelial blood cells and coelomocytes. Mesothelium lines coeloms
The germ layers develop early in embryonic life, through the process of gastrulation. During gastrulation, a hollow cluster of cells called a blastula reorganizes into two primary germ layers: an inner layer, called endoderm, and an outer layer, called ectoderm. Together, the three germ layers will give rise to every organ in the body, from skin and hair to the digestive tract. Gastrulation differs across species, but the general process is the same: the hollow ball of cells that forms the blastula differentiates into layers.
A germ layer is a primary layer of cells that form during embryogenesis. The three germ layers in vertebrates are particularly pronounced; however, all eumetazoans, (animals more complex than the sponge) produce two or three primary germ layers. Animals with radial symmetry, like cnidarians, produce two germ layers (the ectoderm and endoderm) making them diploblastic. Germ layers [edit]. Gastrulation of a diploblast: The formation of germ layers from a (1) blastula to a (2) gastrula. Some of the ectoderm cells (orange) move inward forming the endoderm (red). Micrograph of a teratoma, a tumour that characteristically has tissue from all three germ layers. The image shows tissue derived from the mesoderm (immature cartilage-left-upper corner of image), endoderm (gastrointestinal glands-center-bottom of image) and ectoderm (epidermis-right of image). H&E stain
Germ Layers. by Kate MacCord Keywords: Germ layer theory, mesoderm, endoderm, ectoderm. A germ layer is a group of cells in an embryo that interact with each other as the embryo develops and contribute to the formation of all organs and tissues. All animals, except perhaps sponges, form two or three germ layers. Together, the three germ layers will give rise to every organ in the body, from skin and hair to the digestive tract. Gastrulation differs across species, but the general process is the same: the hollow ball of cells that forms the blastula differentiates into layers.
Epithelial tissue derived from ectoderm is generally squamous epithelium; epithelial tissue derived from endoderm is essentially glandular epithelium. There are a variety of body tissues derived from the third or middle primary germ layer known as the mesoderm. These body tissues include: 1  Muscles. 2  Fibrous tissue. 
mesoderm. the middle of the three primary germ layers of the embryo, lying between the ectoderm and entoderm; from it are derived the connective tissue, bone, cartilage, muscle, blood and blood vessels, lymphatics, lymphoid organs, notochord, pleura, pericardium, peritoneum, kidneys and gonads. extraembryonic mesoderm. The middle of the three primary germ layers of the embryo (the others being ectoderm and endoderm); mesoderm is the origin of connective tissues, myoblasts, blood, the cardiovascular and lymphatic systems, most of the urogenital system, and the lining of the pericardial, pleural, and peritoneal cavities.