Rabbit Tobacco is a member of the Aster family. It is a common herb of old fields, pastures, and roadsides. This is a plant of many names, both common and scientific. In common discourse it has been been known as Old Field Balsam, Indian Posy, Cudweed, Sweet Everlasting, and Common Everlasting. 
Smell. Rabbit tobacco is an interesting plant because it is one of the few which is traditionally administered by the sense of smell. In North America we have the tradition of the sweet everlasting pillow; in Europe the helichrysum is used as a volatile oil. As mentioned above, rabbit tobacco was one of the most important plants in the Cherokee pharmacopoeia. By contrast, the English cudweed was but little used. Thus, it seems likely that the use of Gnaphalium owes more to the American Indian than the European materia medica.
Rabbit Tobacco is more traditionally known as a smoke for lung and sinus issues. It is actually a powerful anti-viral which needs to be in every home herbal medicine chest. 
That being said, Rabbit Tobacco is very simple to use, whether it is as an infusion, a tincture, smoking mixture or, in it’s most powerful form, a true distilled extract. A spoonful of the dried leaves steeped for five minutes in a cup of boiling water will soothe coughs, open up the sinuses and act as an expectorant. If there is any one plant that represents the change of seasons from summer to fall, it is Rabbit Tobacco. Around the middle of August, it is hard to miss the silvery-green leaves of this plant dotting the hillsides of the Deep South.
It is used as both a medicine and a tobacco, and is associated with rabbit in both applications. In addition, it makes an excellent “posey” or sweet-scented dried flower decoration for the house. The scent is both beautiful and complex. It is one of the few medicines which is administered in the form of a pillow. As mentioned above, rabbit tobacco was one of the most important plants in the Cherokee pharmacopoeia. By contrast, the English cudweed was but little used. Thus, it seems likely that the use of Gnaphalium owes more to the American Indian than the European materia medica.
There are many ways to prepare and use Rabbit Tobacco but there is one major consideration involved with the use of this plant. It is critical that it is picked AFTER the leaves have turned their traditional silvery-green color in the fall. If there is any one plant that represents the change of seasons from summer to fall, it is Rabbit Tobacco. Around the middle of August, it is hard to miss the silvery-green leaves of this plant dotting the hillsides of the Deep South.
Contrary to popular belief, rabbit tobacco is not marijuana. In Cherokee medicine, it is believed that councils of animals created diseases in order to avenge the loss of their families and living spaces. The plants, being sympathetic to humans, decided to each furnish a cure for these diseases. 
Paul Red Elk’s grandfather also warned him that rabbit tobacco picks up the psychic impression of people around it, whether good or bad, and can carry it for many years. This is true of a picked clump or a stand of the plants in a field. As mentioned above, rabbit tobacco was one of the most important plants in the Cherokee pharmacopoeia. By contrast, the English cudweed was but little used. Thus, it seems likely that the use of Gnaphalium owes more to the American Indian than the European materia medica.
Rabbit tobacco (Pseudognaphalium obtusifolium) goes by many common names, including sweet everlasting, fragrant cudweed and cat's foot. It is a common sight across the eastern United States, where it grows in fields, prairies and open woodlands. 
Rabbit-tobacco is a plant (weed) native to North America also called Everlasting, Catfoot, and Old Field Balsam (Pseudognaphalium obtusifolium). It grows wild from the east coast to about half way across the continent although I don't know how far north in Canada it grows or how far south in Mexico. The term was also used as a nickname for lavender in England, which is what rabbit tobacco means in Beatrix Potter's Peter Rabbit. Use the link below, which is based on a late 19th century/early 20 century herbal.