Carter /car-ter/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced KAR-ter. It is of Old English origin, and the meaning of Carter is one who transports goods. Occupational name and surname. Former President Jimmy Carter; football player Cris Carter. How popular is Carter? Carter is a somewhat popular first name for men (#741 out of 1220, Top 61%) and an even more popular last name for both adults and children (#46 out of 150436, Top 1%). (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the baby name popularity of Carter for boys. Carter reached its top rank of #27 in the U.S. in 2014
Personal experiences with the name Carter: | Edit. Share what you know! Nicknames for Carter: | Edit. Share what you know! Meanings and history of the name Carter : | Edit. It is of Old English origin, and the meaning of Carter is one who transports goods. Occupational name and surname.
Carter Name Meaning. English: occupational name for a transporter of goods, Middle English cartere, from an agent derivative of Middle English cart(e) or from Anglo-Norman French car(e)tier, a derivative of Old French caret (see Cartier).
Origin of the name Carter: Transferred use of the surname that originated in the Middle Ages as an occupational name for someone who used a cart to transport goods. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. Nicknames for Carter: | Edit. Share what you know! Meanings and history of the name Carter : | Edit. It is of Old English origin, and the meaning of Carter is one who transports goods.
Carter is of Irish, Scottish and English origin and is an occupational name given to one who transports goods by cart or wagon originally believed to be of Gaelic and Celtic origins and a possible form of the names McCarthy, McArthur, or McCarter. However it is known to be from the Gaelic word Cairt meaning cart. It is the 44th most common surname in the United States and 56th most common in the United Kingdom.
Carter is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 6 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Car-ter. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 27 in baby name popularity for boys with 10599 occurrences. It ranked 785 in popular baby names for girls with 355 occurrences. View the Carter Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Carter has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Carter to other names. English names generally consist of a given name, middle name and family name. Many English speaking countries have fairly flexible naming laws. This allows the multicultural families that live in these countries to merge the naming conventions of their faiths or previous nationalities with their current homeland.
Carter is a family name, and also may be a given name. However it is known to be from the Gaelic word Cairt meaning cart. It is the 44th most common surname in the United States and 56th most common in the United Kingdom.
Mc generally means son of. However it is known to be from the Gaelic word Cairt meaning cart. It is the 44th most common surname in the United States and 56th most common in the United Kingdom.
CARTER Surname Meaning & Origin: Carter is an English occupational name for the transporter of goods by cart or wagon. From the Anglo-Norman French caretier, a derivative of Old French caret which originally meant carrier.. Another possible derivation comes from cairtear, a Gaelic term for tourist or sojourner.