You can buy fresh horseradish in the produce section of most larger supermarkets if you want to grate it yourself. If you want the prepared stuff...it is in the cold section near the cheese, yogurt, etc.
Grade No. 1 Horseradish Root. A main root of no less than 6 inches (15.24 cm) in length and no less than one inch (2.54 cm) in diameter. Grade No. 1 roots are available in five-pound increments up to 50 pounds and in 50 pound increments up to 200 pounds.
horseradish roots for sale, buy horseradish root, organic horseradish root, growing horseradish root, planting horseradish, online horseradish root plants for sale, growing horseradish root and plants, gardening horseradish Horseradish Roots For Sale 1 Yr or 3 Yr (3 Yr at the bottom of the page). I Love Horseradish.
horseradish root for sale, horseradish plant for sale, how to plant horseradish root, when to plant horseradish, where to buy horseradish 3 yr roots for sale, buy horseradish on line, planting horseradish, gardening horseradish, organic horseradish for sale, plant organic horseradish.
Horseradish plants roots for sale can be planted almost anywhere in your garden and in any zone except for zone 13 (dessert). Horseradish plants can be planted in either raised beds or directly to your soil. Or for a more decorative idea plant them in a half whiskey barrel.
If you like horseradish as hot as it can be, use fresh horseradish root. A good quality root is clean, firm, and free from cuts and blemishes. The freshly peeled or sliced root and the prepared product are creamy white.
How much horseradish and where to get it. You can grow your own, pick your own, or buy them at the grocery store. About 3 or 4 plants with of 1-inch diameter roots makes about 4 four-ounce jars-similar to the ones in
If you like horseradish as hot as it can be, use fresh horseradish roots. A good quality root is clean, firm, and free from cuts and blemishes. The freshly peeled or sliced root and the prepared product are creamy white.
Grade No. 2 Horseradish Root. A main root of no less than 4 inches (10.16 cm) in length and no less than 1/2 inch (1.27 cm) in diameter. Grade No. 2 roots are available in 50 pound increments up to 200 pounds.