Birdman net worth: Birdman is an American rapper, CEO and entrepreneur who has a net worth of $180 million. Birdman, also known as Bryan Baby Williams is the CEO and founder of Cash Money Records. Born in New Orleans, Louisiana, Birdman founded Cash Money Records with his brother Ronald Slim Williams in 1989. But you already knew all that. What you want to know is how much cash money does Birdman have. Well consider this: Cash Money Records is the most commercially successful label in the history of hip-hop music with 50 million records sold and annual revenues in excess of $100 million.
Birdman net worth is one of the net worths that most people are interested to know. Most have heard about the figure on media and other platforms, but a few know, what has made Birdman’s net worth to get to where it is today. The rapper is said to take home $170 million. How Much Is Birdman Worth. His lavish lifestyle, should tell you that Birdman is extremely rich. He has been reported saying that he buys about 100 cars within a period of 6 months. He is also philanthropic enough to give away the older vehicle once the brand new comes home.
According to FORBES, Birdman net worth is estimated to $160 million. FORBES listed him as one of the Forbes Five wealthiest hip-hops featured in the May 15, 2014 issue of Forbes Magazine. Cash Money Records earns over $100 million yearly and has sold 50 million records to date. With Birdman net worth unbelievably big, he can buy any property he would wish to have. He owns $30 million condo in Miami and other properties.
Birdman Net Worth – 100 Cars In 6 Month! Birdman net worth is estimated $170 million. That should sum up how he is living his wonderful life. Born as Bryan Williams, Birdman is the founder of Cash Money Records. Along with his brother, he established the recording company back in 1989. The Birdman has net worth of $40 million when he was only 22 year old. That surpassed the Beatles’ earning in all! It has dollar profits per unit. That money magnet somehow makes a lavish living.
Birdman owns a $30 million condo in Miami. He claims that every 6 months he buys 100 new cars and gives away all the old ones. At any given time he is wearing millions of dollars worth jewelry including a 15 carat black diamond ring and matching earrings and a $500,000 grill on his teeth. But you already knew all that. What you want to know is how much cash money does Birdman have. Well consider this: Cash Money Records is the most commercially successful label in the history of hip-hop music with 50 million records sold and annual revenues in excess of $100 million.
It Is True, Indeed. Birdman net worth is estimated $170 million. That should sum up how he is living his wonderful life. Born as Bryan Williams, Birdman is the founder of Cash Money Records. Along with his brother, he established the recording company back in 1989. The Birdman has net worth of $40 million when he was only 22 year old. That surpassed the Beatles’ earning in all! It has dollar profits per unit. That money magnet somehow makes a lavish living.
Eminem net worth: Eminem is a multi platinum selling American rapper who has a net worth of $190 million. Eminem spent his youth moving around Missouri. View this Person. 1  Rank#7 Birdman Net Worth$180 MillionBirdman net worth: Birdman is an American rapper, CEO and entrepreneur who has a net worth of $180 million. Birdman, also known as Bryan Baby. View this Person. 1  Rank#8 Usher Net Worth$180 MillionUsher net worth: Usher is an American singer, songwriter, producer and actor who has a net worth of $180 million. P Diddy Net Worth. $730 Million. P Diddy net worth: P Diddy is a rapper, actor, record producer, and men's fashion designer who has a net worth of $730 million dollars.
About Birdman. American rapper, executive producer and philanthropist, Bryan “Birdman” Williams, has an estimated net worth of $150 million in 2015, according to Forbes. His net worth dipped slightly due to several issues surrounding his Cash Money Records. One of which include the departure of acts like Lil Wayne. He also made it to the FORBES 2011 Cash Kings list, with earnings of $15 million between 2010-2011. Birdman is Co-founder and CEO of Cash Money Records. In 1998, Birdman and his brother Ronald “Slim” Williams made $30 million in distribution deal with Universal. Today he is the fourth richest rapper on the planet.
Birdman net worth of $170 million stems from his multi-platinum records as a producer and an artist. His song Stunna was nominated two times in the Grammy in 2000. Birdman net worth of $170 million is massively huge, but if records will be laid out, the successful rapper-producer could be earning more than his worth. Cash Money Records earns over $100 million yearly and has sold 50 million records to date. With Birdman net worth unbelievably big, he can buy any property he would wish to have. He owns $30 million condo in Miami and other properties.