Crocodiles are large reptiles that live in fresh water, lakes, rivers, brackish water (mix between salty and fresh water). They can be found in tropic areas of Australia, Africa, America and Asia. There are 23 species of crocodiles and most of them are endangered because of poaching.
Crocodiles (subfamily Crocodylinae) or true crocodiles are large aquatic reptiles that live throughout the tropics in Africa, Asia, the Americas and Australia. Crocodylinae, all of whose members are considered true crocodiles, is classified as a biological subfamily.
The American Alligator is part of this Order of reptiles. Crocodiles, caiman, gavials, and alligators can be found in warm to tropical climates. The crocodile can be found in Africa, Southeast Asia and Northern Australia. The Caiman can be found in northern South America.
American Crocodiles. American crocodiles (Crocodylus acutus) are a shy and reclusive species. They live in coastal areas throughout the Caribbean, and occur at the northern end of their range in south Florida. They live in brackish or saltwater areas, and can be found in ponds, coves, and creeks in mangrove swamps.
American alligators are found in the southeast United States: all of Florida and Louisiana, the southern parts of Georgia, Alabama, and Mississippi, coastal South and North Carolina, East Texas, the southeast corner of Oklahoma, and the southern tip of Arkansas.
The freshwater crocodile (also called Johnstones Crocodile) is found in inland freshwater areas of the Australian tropics and occasionally in the tidal portions of rivers. They are only found in Australia. Their range does overlap with saltwater crocodiles, and they can be found in the same locality.
Saltwater Crocodile (Crocodylus porosus). The saltwater crocodile is the largest living reptile species of all. This opportunistic, adaptable and formidable apex predator can be found across a wide range from the northern parts of Australia through South-east Asia and the eastern coasts of India. It is also known as Indo-Pacific and Estuarine crocodile.