Consistently dry, chapped and cracked lips are signs of a lack of riboflavin. Flax Seed Powder contains essential fatty acids required for the nourishment of the skin of the lips. Vitamin E acts as a powerful antioxidant to protect essential fatty acids and prevent cracking of lips. Under certain conditions, one may need to use remedies to alleviate the condition of dry lips. Severe dry lips may bleed and may be itchy and irritated. There are now several different types of balms and creams that can be used for the care
Vitamins & Minerals That Treat Chapped Lips. A variety of vitamins and minerals can heal chapped lips. Photo Credit Kras1/iStock/Getty Images. Chapped lips, also known as cheilitis, can occur when your lips are depleted of moisture. Symptoms of chapped lips include dry, red, sore and cracked lips that split and bleed when you smile, talk, laugh or eat. 
Lack of some vitamins, particularly B vitamins, may cause chapped lips. Vitamin B-2, also called riboflavin, is a B-complex vitamin that is needed for healthy hair, nails and skin, including your lips. Deficiency of vitamin B-2 may result in mouth or lip sores, according to the University of Maryland Medical Center. Good sources of riboflavin include dairy products, eggs, green leafy vegetables, beans, nuts and lean meats. A close-up of a woman's healthy lips. Photo Credit Hemera Technologies/AbleStock.com/Getty Images. Some vitamins are essential for bones, others for cell growth, and still others, like B-complex vitamins, are supporters of skin.
In the absence of natural oils and melanin, lips tend to loose moisture that eventually leads to cracked and dry lips. Exposure to cold winds is an obvious reason for dry lips but when an individual develops dry and cracked lips, vitamin deficiency is also a principal cause. Under certain conditions, one may need to use remedies to alleviate the condition of dry lips. Severe dry lips may bleed and may be itchy and irritated. There are now several different types of balms and creams that can be used for the care of the lips.
Sun damage. Just as the rest of your skin can be damaged by the sun, so can your lips. Yes, you can have tanned lips, and they hurt! Wind exposure. Leaving your lips unprotected in a strong wind can cause skin damage. Dehydration. Probably the leading cause of most dry or cracked lips is simple dehydration. Apply aloe vera. Apply Vitamin E ointment. Protect your lips from the sun as you would the rest of your skin. Use a humidifier in your home or office. Rub a cucumber slice on your lips. Avoid excessive use of commercial skin treatments including cosmetics and heavily flavored lip balms.
Nourishment of the skin is related to hydration and also the consumption of important vitamins and minerals. This is how there is a link between chapped lips and vitamin deficiency. It should be noted that chapped, cracking lips should be used as a sign to improve one's diet and one's hydration levels. Under certain conditions, one may need to use remedies to alleviate the condition of dry lips. Severe dry lips may bleed and may be itchy and irritated. There are now several different types of balms and creams that can be used for the care of the lips.
Vitamin deficiencies. Certain vitamins are critical to maintaining healthy skin and lips. These include: Vitamin A Vitamin B Vitamin C Vitamin B2 (Riboflavin deficiency Allergic reactions. Many cracked and dry lips are the result of negative reactions to cosmetics and skin care products. Apply aloe vera. Apply Vitamin E ointment. Protect your lips from the sun as you would the rest of your skin. Use a humidifier in your home or office. Rub a cucumber slice on your lips. Avoid excessive use of commercial skin treatments including cosmetics and heavily flavored lip balms.
Cracked, dry or sore lips are common in dry, cold weather. Chronically cracked lips might be a symptom of a more serious illness, but cracked lips can usually be treated using home remedies. See Step 1 and beyond to learn how to make your lips soft and supple again. You can exfoliate your lips using the same items you use to exfoliate other areas on your body. Try one of the following: 1  Use a salt or sugar scrub. 2  Apply the scrub to your lips and massage them in a circular motion, rubbing away the dead skin (you can also try using sugar added to a little olive oil as an exfoliant).
Common vitamins responsible for cracking and chapping of lips are Vitamin A, Vitamin B and Vitamin C. The most common symptoms include pain, loss of moisture, feeling of dryness, tenderness of lips, bleeding and reddishness in lips. Under certain conditions, one may need to use remedies to alleviate the condition of dry lips. Severe dry lips may bleed and may be itchy and irritated. There are now several different types of balms and creams that can be used for the care of the lips.