The three main types of radiation are alpha, beta, and gamma. However, neutrons are sufficiently important in nuclear physics to consider them as a fourth main type of radiat … ion. Alpha is a helium nucleus, 24He2+, that is ejected from certain nuclei. 
Gamma Waves. Gamma radiation differs from alpha and beta radiation in that it is in the form of electromagnetic waves. Because of this, it’s also the most penetrating of the three types featured here, and a few centimetres of lead are required in order to halt its progress. Alpha particles have the highest ionisation ability of the three types of radiation we’ll examine here. Each alpha particle is essentially a helium atom which has had its electrons stripped away: they’re composed of two protons, and two neutrons.
Radioactive substances give out radiation all of the time. There are three types of nuclear radiation: alpha, beta and gamma. Alpha is the least penetrating, while gamma is the most penetrating. Radiation can be harmful, but it can also be useful. The uses of radiation include smoke detectors, paper-thickness gauges, treating cancer and sterilising medical equipment.
Illustration of the relative abilities of three different types of ionizing radiation to penetrate solid matter. Typical alpha particles (α) are stopped by a sheet of paper, while beta particles (β) are stopped by an aluminium plate. Gamma radiation (γ) is damped when it penetrates lead. The lower-energy, longer-wavelength part of the spectrum including visible light, infrared light, microwaves, and radio waves is non-ionizing; its main effect when interacting with tissue is heating. This type of radiation only damages cells if the intensity is high enough to cause excessive heating.
The three main types of radiation are alpha, beta, and gamma. However, neutrons are sufficiently important in nuclear physics to consider them as a fourth main type of radiat … ion. Alpha is a helium nucleus, 24He2+, that is ejected from certain nuclei. It is a form of spontaneous fission. Common types of nuclear radiation include alpha particles, beta particles, and gamma rays Source Frank, David V., Michael Wysession, and Sophia Yancopoulos. Chapter 10.1.. … Physical Science. Needham, MA: Prentice Hall, 2009.
There are three primary types of radiation: 1  Alpha-these are fast moving helium atoms. 2  Beta-these are fast moving electrons. 3  Gamma-these are photons, just like light, except of much higher energy, typically from several keV to several MeV. 1 Alpha-these are fast moving helium atoms. 2  They have high energy, typically in the MeV range, but due to their large mass, they are stopped by just a few inches of air, or a piece of paper. 3  Beta-these are fast moving electrons. 4  They typically have energies in the range of a few hundred keV to several MeV.
Three types of radioation-Alpha, Beta, Gamma. There are three primary types of radiation: 1  Alpha-these are fast moving helium atoms. 2  They have high energy, typically in the MeV range, but due to their large mass, they are stopped by just a few inches of air, or a piece of paper. 3  Beta-these are fast moving electrons. 1 Alpha-these are fast moving helium atoms. 2  They have high energy, typically in the MeV range, but due to their large mass, they are stopped by just a few inches of air, or a piece of paper. 3  Beta-these are fast moving electrons. 4  They typically have energies in the range of a few hundred keV to several MeV.
The radiation one typically encounters is one of four types: alpha radiation, beta radiation, gamma radiation, and x radiation. Neutron radiation is also encountered in nuclear power plants and high-altitude flight and emitted from some industrial radioactive sources. 1 Gamma radiation and x rays are highly penetrating electromagnetic radiation. 2  Some characteristics of these radiations are: 3  Examples of some gamma emitters: iodine-131, cesium-137, cobalt-60, radium-226, and technetium-99m. 4  Gamma radiation or x rays are able to travel many feet in air and many inches in human tissue.
Of the five main types of radiation, three types of radiation are of special concern related to our health. The three of main concern are Alpha, Beta and Gamma radiation. This section will consider what radiation is, what it does, the health implications and the glutathione protection connection. Health care radiation exposure is briefly covered here.