Geno Auriemma signs new contract to stay at UConn. Connecticut women's basketball coach Geno Auriemma has signed a new $10.86 million contract, a deal designed to keep him at the school through the 2017-18 season, UConn announced Wednesday. Post to Facebook.
STORRS, Conn. (AP) — Connecticut women's basketball coach Geno Auriemma has signed a new $10.86 million contract, a deal designed to keep him at the school through the 2017-18 season, UConn announced Wednesday. Post to Facebook.
Auriemma Contract. STORRS, Conn. - University of Connecticut head women's basketball coach Geno Auriemma has signed a new five-year contract with the school that will run through the 2017-18 season. Geno Auriemma has developed the University of Connecticut women's basketball team into one of the most beloved college athletic programs in the country in any sport, said UConn President Susan Herbst.
He Is From Italy. UConn women’s coach Geno Auriemma at the US national and olympic team practice. (Getty). Auriemma was born in Montella, Italy in 1954. At the age of seven, he and his emigrated to Norristown, Pennsylvania, which is just outside of Philadelphia. 
The best paid coach in women's college sports is a man: Geno Auriemma, the basketball coach at University of Connecticut. Auriemma, who will earn $2.06 million this year, the second year of a five-year contract, is also the most successful coach currently in women's basketball. Auriemma had been better paid even than UConn's men's basketball coach Kevin Ollie, but Ollie also won the championship a year ago and then signed a new contract. Ollie's now getting $2.8 million. Auriemma is paid nearly twice as much as Muffett McGraw, the Notre Dame coach he's facing in tonight's game.
(Mark Ralston/Getty Images). UConn women's basketball coach Geno Auriemma has signed a $10.8 million contract that will keep him at the school through the 2017-18 season, according to a report Wednesday night from The Hartford-Courant. So on top of the goodwill and positive attributes he brings to the department and university, he also helps us generate revenue in many ways.. Geno Auriemma signed a $10.8 million contract with UConn, making him the highest paid coach in women's basketball history.
$1.95 Million. Geno Auriemma net worth and salary: Geno Auriemma is an American college basketball coach who has a net worth of $8 million and an annual salary of $1.95 million. Geno Auriemma is currently the head coach of the University of Connecticut Huskies women's basketball team. As of this writing, Geno has led the UConn women to eight Division 1 national championship victories. He has won the Naismith College Coach of the Year award six times. Born on March 23, 1954 in Montella, Italy, Geno emigrated to Norristown, Pennsylvania when he was seven years old. He graduated from West Chester University of Pennsylvania in 1977 and was quickly hired as an assistant basketball coach at St. Joseph's University. Geno has been the coach of UConn since August 1985.
Auriemma's pay is slated to rise to $2.4 million by the 2017-18 school year, the final year of his contract. He'll be paid $10.9 million during the life of the contract, not counting endorsement deals, basketball camps, and perks like $15,000 a year car allowance and his country club membership. Auriemma had been better paid even than UConn's men's basketball coach Kevin Ollie, but Ollie also won the championship a year ago and then signed a new contract. Ollie's now getting $2.8 million. Auriemma is paid nearly twice as much as Muffett McGraw, the Notre Dame coach he's facing in tonight's game.
STORRS, Conn. -- Kevin Ollie won one national championship for the University of Connecticut in the NCAA men's basketball tournament, and his compensation immediately surpassed Geno Auriemma and his nine national titles on the women's side. Ollie is making $3million this season to Auriemma's $2millio
(Read More). Geno Auriemma has been head coach of the University of Connecticut women's basketball team since 1986. He is a seven-time national Coach-of-the-Year and has won or shared the BIG EAST Coach-of-the-Year award eight times. He has served as President of the Women's Basketball Coaches Association. 