Natural Food Laxatives & Bowel Movements. Oatmeal is one such food that has a natural laxative effect due its high fiber content. Photo Credit Medioimages/Photodisc/Digital Vision/Getty Images. Regular bowel movements, or the removal of waste from the human body, are a part of proper digestion. Other high-fiber foods possessing a laxative effect are artichokes, oatmeal, many whole-grain breakfast cereals, prunes, peas and raspberries, to name a few. Regular black coffee, derived from coffee beans, contains soluble fiber that may soften stool, according to Scientific American contributor Coco Ballantyne
Prunes are excellent natural laxatives. Yogurt is considered a natural laxative, as it promotes the growth of healthy bacteria in the intestinal tract. Foods high in water content, such as lettuce, are considered good natural laxatives. Eating grapefruit can increase hydration levels and work as a natural laxative. Celery is a high-fiber food. Avocados are a good choice for a natural laxative. Peas, which are high in fiber, may be used as a natural laxative. Aloe vera is sometimes taken as a supplement to treat digestive issues. Watermelon could be used as a natural laxative because it has a high concentration of water.
Natural laxatives generally include any food that has a high fiber or water content, such as whole grains and fruits. Another category of natural laxatives contains foods such as yogurt that promote the growth of healthy bacteria in the intestinal tract. Avocados are a good choice for a natural laxative. Peas, which are high in fiber, may be used as a natural laxative. Aloe vera is sometimes taken as a supplement to treat digestive issues. Watermelon could be used as a natural laxative because it has a high concentration of water.
1 Brown rice, which can be prepare a lot of different ways, is one of the whole grain foods, that is a natural laxative. 2  For cereal lovers, whole grain cereals will work as natural laxatives. 3  Oatmeal and whole grain breads are also good whole grains that will keep the bowels moving in the right direction. 1 Fruits. 2  Most fruits are high in fiber and are natural laxatives. 3  Grapes, plums, and pineapples, taste great and are foods that are natural laxatives. 4  If your in the mood for tropical fruits try eating mangos and coconuts. 5  If you get tired of eating fruits, try some dried fruits to add variety
The most popular natural laxatives are foods rich in fiber. Fiber is found in fruits, vegetables, and grains. When a person eats food rich in fiber, his or her stomach acids work to break the fiber down into soluble fiber and insoluble fiber. Insoluble fiber is the portion of the fiber that is hard to digest. Asker's rating. Report Abuse. Anything with fiber in it is a natural laxative. Apples and apple juice really have a way of making you have to go. Check the labels for high fiber cereals. There are lots of vegatables high in fiber but like apples, the fiber is usually in the peeling like potatoes. Also, eat more salads as ruffage is higher in fiber
For a natural and healthy way to move your bowels, try eating these five foods that are natural laxatives. 1  Nuts. 2  Since they are high in fiber, nuts are one of the foods that are natural laxatives. 3  Not only are almonds high in fiber, they are also high in healthy omega three fatty acids. 1 Fruits. 2  Most fruits are high in fiber and are natural laxatives. 3  Grapes, plums, and pineapples, taste great and are foods that are natural laxatives. 4  If your in the mood for tropical fruits try eating mangos and coconuts. 5  If you get tired of eating fruits, try some dried fruits to add variety