4. Location. Easter Island, Pacific Ocean. The closest populated landmass is Pitcairn Island 1,289 miles west, with a population of less than 100 inhabitants. Easter Island is a territory of Chile as of the late 19th century, located 2,180 miles east. The island is extremely isolated, and an ecological system in and of itself. Climate Change and Subsequent Isolation. Although the archeologists and historians disagree on when the first Polynesians discovered Easter Island, most agree that it occurred around the time of the Medieval Warming Period, an era characterized by an important shift in the Pacific trade winds.
By Amanda Briney. Easter Island, also called Rapa Nui, is a small island located in the southeastern Pacific Ocean that is considered a special territory of Chile. Easter Island is most famous for its large moai statues that were carved by native peoples between 1250 and 1500. 8) Easter Island's climate is considered subtropical maritime. It has mild winters and year round cool temperatures and abundant precipitation. The lowest average July temperature on Easter Island is around 64°F (18°C) while its highest temperatures are in February and average about 82°F (28°C).
Studies based on coraldata around Easter Island may provide a potential linkbetween climate variability and cultural change onEaster Island.Combining the insight presented by Cobb et al.(2003), Cianelli et al. (2005), Murphy et al. (2007),Durant et al. (2007) and Piatt et al. 2. ECOCIDE The cliff-girded coastline of Easter Island permitsshallow-water ﬁshing in only a few places (Diamond2005). The diversity and amount of ﬁsh available forthe inhabitants are therefore much more restrictedcompared to other Polynesian islands.
The mysteries of the most isolated island in the world, Rapa Nui, commonly known as Easter Island, have baffled anthropologists and other scientists for generations, and one question about the curious inhabitants who erected those great, strange heads is what happened to the people who made them. The researchers focused on three areas on the island that were vital for growing crops to feed the locals, known as the Rapanui. One area has relatively rich soil, but low rainfall. Another has poor soil, but lots of rain. And the third has good soil and moderate rain.
How to Recover From Failed Love. The 63-square-mile island was once the home of a booming population of about 15,000, according to some estimates, but that number dwindled to about 2,000-3,000 around the time a few Europeans arrived on Easter Sunday, 1722. The researchers focused on three areas on the island that were vital for growing crops to feed the locals, known as the Rapanui. One area has relatively rich soil, but low rainfall. Another has poor soil, but lots of rain. And the third has good soil and moderate rain.
4. Easter Island. Easter Island is the name given to a Polynesian island located in the southeastern Pacific Ocean by the Dutch explorer Jacob Roggeveen in 1722. It’s often referred to as being the most remote inhabited island in the world. And is well known for its large stone monuments, called moai. 
According to the oral history of the Rapa Nui, the population of Easter Island contained ten clans or mata, which fell roughly into the Kotuu and Hotu-iti groups identifying with the Western and Eastern parts of the island, respectively. Climate Change and Subsequent Isolation. Although the archeologists and historians disagree on when the first Polynesians discovered Easter Island, most agree that it occurred around the time of the Medieval Warming Period, an era characterized by an important shift in the Pacific trade winds.
Climate change, even on a year to year basis, apparently proved fatal in the areas with rich soil and little rain, and poor soil with lots of rain. Only the area with good soil and moderate rain was still in use when the first Europeans arrived, the researchers found through the dating process. The researchers focused on three areas on the island that were vital for growing crops to feed the locals, known as the Rapanui. One area has relatively rich soil, but low rainfall. Another has poor soil, but lots of rain. And the third has good soil and moderate rain.
Easter Island's native population is believed to have overused its natural resources and collapsed. Some scientists and writers claim that global climate change and resource exploitation may lead to the planet collapsing as did the population on Easter Island. 8) Easter Island's climate is considered subtropical maritime. It has mild winters and year round cool temperatures and abundant precipitation. The lowest average July temperature on Easter Island is around 64°F (18°C) while its highest temperatures are in February and average about 82°F (28°C).
The story of the  ecocide  and collapse of the civilization on Easter Island, or Rapa Nui in the native language, became very popular with the film  Rapa Nui  (1994) and the book by American biologist Jared Diamond  Collapse-How societies choose to fail or survive  (2005). Simplified history of the environmental phenomena on Rapa Nui. Good sediment cores and therefore records of the past of Rapa Nui can be obtained from the swamps and lakes situated in the three main craters of the volcanic island, because larger sediment traps are more likely to hold thicker and undisturbed deposits.