Thermal energy is energy possessed by an object or system due to the movement of particles within the object or the system. Thermal energy is one of various types of energy, where ' energy ' can be defined as 'the ability to do work.' Work is the movement of an object due to an applied force. Thermal energy is energy possessed by an object or a system due to the movement of particles within that object or system. Energy is simply the ability to do work, and work is accomplished when a force moves an object. In this context, a system is a collection of objects within a boundary, like a pot of water.
Energy is defined as the ability to do work. Energy comes in various forms. Here are 5 main types of energy and examples of them. 1  mechanical energy. 2  Mechanical energy is energy that results from movement or the location of an object. 3  Mechanical energy is the sum of kinetic energy and potential energy. Examples: An object possessing mechanical energy has both kinetic and potential energy, although the energy of one of the forms may be equal to zero. A moving car has kinetic energy. If you move the car up a mountain, it has kinetic
The energy acquired by the objects upon which work is done is known as mechanical energy. Mechanical energy is the energy that is possessed by an object due to its motion or due to its position. Mechanical energy can be either kinetic energy (energy of motion) or potential energy (stored energy of position). 
Mechanical energy is the sum of kinetic and potential energy in an object that is used to do work. In other words, it is energy in an object due to its motion or position, or both. In the 'open door' example above, I possess potential chemical energy (energy stored in me), and by lifting my hands to push the door, my action also had kinetic energy (energy in the motion of my hands).
-Thermal energy and mechanical energy are the sum of potential and kinetic energy.   -They can change to another form of energy.   -They can't be created or destro … yed due to the law of conservation of energy. Thermal energy is used to boil water which creates pressure that moves a piston. The movement of the piston or anything the piston moves is mechanical energy. 3 people found this useful. Edit. Share to:
Lesson Summary. In review, mechanical energy is energy possessed by an object due to its motion or its position. Energy is the ability to do work and work is accomplished when a force moves an object. Let's now look at some examples of mechanical energy. A demolition machine is a great example of both potential and kinetic mechanical energy. The wrecking ball possesses potential mechanical energy when it is raised to a vertical position above the ground.
The example of conversion of mechanical energy to thermal energy is the rubbing of hands. Thermal energy is used to boil water which creates pressure that moves a piston. The movement of the piston or anything the piston moves is mechanical energy. 3 people found this useful. Edit. Share to:
Thermal energy is an example of kinetic energy, as it is due to the motion of particles, with motion being the key. Thermal energy results in an object or a system having a temperature that can be measured. Thermal energy can be transferred from one object or system to another in the form of heat. Thermal energy is energy possessed by an object or a system due to the movement of particles within that object or system. Energy is simply the ability to do work, and work is accomplished when a force moves an object. In this context, a system is a collection of objects within a boundary, like a pot of water.
Because thermal energy is due to the movement of particles, it is a type of kinetic energy, which is the energy due to motion. Thermal energy results in something having an internal temperature, and that temperature can be measured-for example, in degrees Celsius or Fahrenheit on a thermometer. Thermal energy is energy possessed by an object or a system due to the movement of particles within that object or system. Energy is simply the ability to do work, and work is accomplished when a force moves an object. In this context, a system is a collection of objects within a boundary, like a pot of water.
A boiler. Thermal energy is used to boil water which creates pressure that moves a piston. The movement of the piston or anything the piston moves is mechanical energy. 3 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: