By no coincidence, Mount Airy is also the birthplace of Andy Griffith, the actor who played Sheriff Andy Taylor in the series. Griffith died Tuesday at the age of 86 on North Carolina's Roanoke Island, his family said. 1 The North Carolina town is the birthplace of Andy Griffith, who died Tuesday. 2  Mount Airy -- with a population of about 10,000 -- is also home to the Andy Griffith Museum.
Upon driving into the town of Mayberry, North Carolina, a visitor would have to be enchanted. There is a sign at the Mayberry city limits that reads Welcome to Mayberry, The Friendly Town.. Mayberry is located in the northwestern part of the state and is the county seat of Mayberry County. It was founded by James Merriweather in the year 1864. . Soon after its founding, the town was burnt down in 1870 by Rotten Ray Ancrum which later established the Ancrum Charcoal Company.
1 “Did you get Thelma Lou over to Mount Pilot okay?”-Barney Fife Many people often ask, “Where is Mayberry” or “Where is Mount Airy, North Carolina?” Mount Airy is located in the upper Yadkin Valley in Northwest North Carolina near the Virginia-North Carolina state line. 
Mountains. Music. Mayberry. Merlot. Mayberry RFD icon Andy Griffith grew up in Mount Airy, North Carolina, and it's no coincidence that a stroll down Mount Airy's Main Street reminds people of the town of Mayberry from The Andy Griffith Show. In addition to Mayberry RFD and Andy Griffith, visitors find that Mount Airy, North Carolina is a great jumping off point for exploring the Yadkin Valley wine region, the breathtaking Blue Ridge Parkway, the stunning pinnacle of Pilot Mountain, or the twangy sound of bluegrass and old-time music.
Mayberry is the name of a real community in Patrick County, Virginia; located 22 miles northeast of Andy Griffith's hometown of Mount Airy, North Carolina. Griffith, however, told Larry King in 2003 that Artie Stander is the person who thought of the name Mayberry; Stander was one of the show's creators and writers. Mayberry is a real community in Patrick County, Virginia, located 22 miles northeast of Andy Griffith's hometown of Mount Airy, North Carolina.
Story highlights. 1  Mount Airy may have inspired Mayberry, a fictional town where The Andy Griffith Show was set. 2  The North Carolina town is the birthplace of Andy Griffith, who died Tuesday. 3  Mount Airy -- with a population of about 10,000 -- is also home to the Andy Griffith Museum. 1 The North Carolina town is the birthplace of Andy Griffith, who died Tuesday. 2
Mayberry was also the setting for a 1986 reunion television movie titled Return to Mayberry. Mayberry was set in North Carolina and is said to be based on Andy Griffith 's hometown of Mount Airy, North Carolina. Griffith, however, told Larry King in 2003 that Artie Stander is the person who thought of the name Mayberry; Stander was one of the show's creators and writers. Mayberry is a real community in Patrick County, Virginia, located 22 miles northeast of Andy Griffith's hometown of Mount Airy, North Carolina.
Andy Griffith'shometown of Mount Airy, North Carolina is home to the new Andy Griffith Museum. Come see the largest collection of Andy Griffith memorabilia collected by his friend Emmett Forrest. 