Modes of Secretion of exocrine glands. Secretory cells of exocrine glands release their products into ducts in three different ways. The mode of secretion can be classified as merocrine, apocrine, or holocrine. Cells that secrete products via the merocrine method form membrane-bound secretory vesicles internal to the cell. These are moved to the apical surface where the vesicles coalesce with the membrane on the apical surface to release the product
Endocrine and exocrine glands secrete various products. These include hormones, enzymes, metabolites, and other molecules. In exocrine glands, products of these cells collect in the duct of the gland and flow toward the surface to which the duct is in contact. Since endocrine glands lack ducts, the product is released across the cell membrane into interstitial spaces around the cells.
Exocrine glands are glands that produce and secrete substances onto an epithelial surface by way of a duct. Examples of exocrine glands include sweat, salivary, mammary, ceruminous, lacrimal, sebaceous, and mucous. Exocrine glands are one of two types of glands in the human body, the other being endocrine glands, which secrete their products directly into the bloodstream.
Exocrine glands are the type of glands in which its secretion travels through an array of ducts and is ultimately released to the body exterior. Due to this the inner surface of glands and the ducts that are in contact with the surface are continuously in contact with each other and to the exterior body surface. 
Glands. Glands of the body are classified as either exocrine or endocrine types. Exocrine glands are glands that retain ducts to body surfaces. During development, endocrine glands lose their contacts to embryological surfaces(ducts) and become isolated as small blocks of tissues. In exocrine glands, products of these cells collect in the duct of the gland and flow toward the surface to which the duct is in contact. Since endocrine glands lack ducts, the product is released across the cell membrane into interstitial spaces around the cells.
The type of secretion of the sebaceous glands is referred to as holocrine. In the eyelids, meibomian glands, also called tarsal glands, are a type of sebaceous gland that secrete a special type of sebum into tears. Fordyce spots are ectopic (misplaced) sebaceous glands found usually on the lips, gums and inner cheeks. 
Modes of Secretion. Secretory cells of exocrine glands release their products into ducts in three different ways. The mode of secretion can be classified as merocrine, apocrine, or holocrine. Cells that secrete products via the merocrine method form membrane-bound secretory vesicles internal to the cell. In exocrine glands, products of these cells collect in the duct of the gland and flow toward the surface to which the duct is in contact. Since endocrine glands lack ducts, the product is released across the cell membrane into interstitial spaces around the cells.
Different Types of Glands in human body: Based on the way of secretion: Glands are two types based on secretion as. 1. Exocrine glands: They secrete into a location or region of the body through a duct and their secretions are called enzymes mostly while some are non enzymes. Types of exocrine glands and their secretions include. 1  Salivary gland: In the buccal cavity secrete saliva. 2  This saliva has many functions. 3  Pancreas: Secretes enzyme amylase, trypsin and lipase. 4  These enzymes digest carbohydrates, proteins and fats respectively. They are ductless glands. Their secretions are called as hormones. Based on their location there are broadly two types of exocrine glands viz. a) Pituitary Gland (of hypothalamus) : This is a gland located below the hypothalamus in the brain.
1 Apocrine glands (e.g., mammary glands) accumulate their secretory product at the apical surface of each cell, which then separates from the remainder to from a secretion in the lumen of the gland. 2  The cells then repair themselves. Exocrine glands include the sweat, sebaceous, and mammary glands, and the glands that secrete digestive enzymes. Most glands in the body are exocrine types. The other major category of glands in the body consists of the endocrine glands.
Exocrine glands are named apocrine glands, holocrine glands, or merocrine glands based on how their products are excreted. 1  Merocrine secretion – cells excrete their substances by exocytosis; for example, pancreatic acinar cells. 2  Apocrine secretion – a portion of the cell membrane that contains the excretion buds off. Exocrine glands are one of two types of glands in the human body, the other being endocrine glands, which secrete their products directly into the bloodstream.