Transfer the meat to a shallow baking dish and place immediately in the preheated oven. Cook for an additional 20 to 25 minutes per pound or until the internal temperature registers 145 F when measured with a meat thermometer. Up to 25 Minutes Per Pound in the Oven. Roasting the pork tenderloin most likely results in a juicy and flavorful roast when started with a quick pan sear. Preheat the oven to 450 F. Heat a shallow skillet over high heat and add a drizzle of fat such as olive oil or butter.
20 minutes a pound. Preheat an oven to 400 degrees for the first 10 minutes, and then down to 325 for the remaining period. You can put it in an oven roaster bag or cover with foil but it is unnecessary. Tenderloin is done when the juices run clear when pricked with a fork. Cover with plastic wrap, set out for 30 minutes. After 20 minutes, turn oven to 425 degrees. Place oven safe skillet on stove, large enough to hold meat, turn to medium-high heat, add olive oil. When oil begins to ripple, place tenderloin in skillet with tongs, don't move it.
Cook for 3 to 4 minutes, then turn. Transfer the pork chops from the pan to a plate when the internal temperature reaches 140 degrees F (60 C); they’ll continue to cook due to the residual heat and will reach 145 degrees F (63 C). The rule of thumb for pork roasts is to cook them 25 minutes per pound of meat at 350 degrees F (175 degrees C).
1 Place pork loin into oven, turning and basting with pan liquids. 2  Cook until the pork is no longer pink in the center, about 1 hour. 3  An instant-read thermometer inserted into the center should read 145 degrees F (63 degrees C). 4  Remove roast to a platter. 1 Rub the meat with the remaining garlic mixture and olive oil. 2  Place pork loin into oven, turning and basting with pan liquids. 3  Cook until the pork is no longer pink in the center, about 1 hour. 4  An instant-read thermometer inserted into the center should read 145 degrees F (63 degrees C). 5
The chops are baked at 425 degrees F for 20 minutes or until the chops reach an internal temperature of 145 degrees F. Allow chops to stand for 3 minutes at room temperature before serving. To stuff, cut a pocket in the side of each pork chop. 
A tenderloin is smaller than the pork loin so it should take about 1 hour to 1 1/2 hours at about 350 degrees. 
For your pork loin you are looking for an internal temperature of no more than 145 degrees. When you take the roast out of the oven it will continue to cook for a while (that's called carry over) and after resting for 15 - 20 minutes it will reach the perfect temperature of 150 - 155 degrees. A stuffed pork loin will never take as long as an unstuffed one, and remember when you do take the pork internal temperature, take it so the point is still in the meat, not in the stuffing. I take pork tenderloin out of the oven at 137 F. Carryover cooking (with foil) takes it to 143-5, with a warm pinkish interior.
In general, cooking the pork tenderloin over high heat for about 20 to 27 minutes per pound brings it to the required 145 F while preserving its inner juiciness. Whether pan-cooking the tenderloin on a stovetop, broiling it in an oven or cooking it on an indoor electric grill, the technique remains the same. Up to 25 Minutes Per Pound in the Oven. Roasting the pork tenderloin most likely results in a juicy and flavorful roast when started with a quick pan sear. Preheat the oven to 450 F. Heat a shallow skillet over high heat and add a drizzle of fat such as olive oil or butter.
Cook Pork Tenderloin to 145 F. According to the USDA, pork tenderloin must be cooked to a minimum internal temperature of 145 degrees Fahrenheit. After cooking, remove the meat from the heat and rest it for at least 3 minutes, which raises its temperature a bit more. Up to 25 Minutes Per Pound in the Oven. Roasting the pork tenderloin most likely results in a juicy and flavorful roast when started with a quick pan sear. Preheat the oven to 450 F. Heat a shallow skillet over high heat and add a drizzle of fat such as olive oil or butter.