Although the actual atmospheric lapse rate varies, under normal atmospheric conditions the average atmospheric lapse rate results in a temperature decrease of 6.4 °C/km (3.5 °F or 1.95 °C/1,000 ft) of altitude above ground level. The measurable lapse rate is affected by the moisture content of the air (humidity). The decrease of an atmospheric variable with height, the variable being temperature unless otherwise specified. In the lower regions of the atmosphere (up to altitudes of approximately 12,000 metres (39,000 ft), temperature decreases with altitude at a fairly uniform rate.
In the troposphere, the average environmental lapse rate is a drop of about 6.5 °C for every 1 km (1,000 meters) in increased height. The environmental lapse rate (the actual rate at which temperature drops with height,) is not usually equal to the adiabatic lapse rate (or correspondingly,). The troposphere is the lowest portion of Earth's atmosphere. It contains approximately 75% of the atmosphere 's mass and 99% of its water vapor and aerosols. The average depth of the troposphere is approximately 17 km (11 mi) in the middle latitudes.
The lapse rate is defined as the rate at which atmospheric temperature decreases with increase in altitude. The terminology arises from the word lapse in the sense of a decrease or decline. While most often applied to Earth's troposphere, the concept can be extended to any gravitationally supported parcel of gas. The decrease of an atmospheric variable with height, the variable being temperature unless otherwise specified. In the lower regions of the atmosphere (up to altitudes of approximately 12,000 metres (39,000 ft), temperature decreases with altitude at a fairly uniform rate.
They are greatest above the tropics and decrease toward the polar regions. In the troposphere air temperature on average decreases with height at an overall positive lapse rate of about 6.5°C/km, until the tropopause, the boundary between the troposphere and stratosphere, is reached. The thickness of the troposphere varies from about 7 to 8 km (5 mi) at the poles to about 16 to 18 km (10 to 11 mi) at the Equator. In addition, it varies in height according to season, being thinner in winter when the air is densest.
Higher up in the troposphere, where less heat from the surface warms the air, the temperature drops. Typically, the temperature drops about 6.5 C with each increase in altitude of 1 kilometer (about 3.6 F per 1,000 feet). The rate at which the temperature changes with altitude is called the lapse rate. In the layer above the troposphere, the stratosphere, temperature rises with increasing altitude. In the stratosphere, the air is heated from above by ultraviolet light which is absorbed by ozone molecules in the air. The tropopause is the boundary between the troposphere (below) and the stratosphere (above).
The layer of air closest to the planet is called the troposphere. The troposphere begins at ground (or water) level and ranges in height from an average of 6 km (4 miles) at the poles or from high altitudes to 17 km (11 miles) at the equator. This part of the atmosphere is the densest and therefore contains the largest percentage of the mass of the total atmosphere. At the surface the global average temperature is 17 degrees Celsius, while upper tropospheric temperatures drop to -57 degrees Celsius. The temperature change (lapse rate) averages roughly 6.5 degrees Celsius (C) per kilometer. The top of the troposphere is definitely an extremely cold and windy place.
Normally in the troposphere temperature decreases as the altitude increases. This is known as the lapse rate. The average temperature decrease (or average lapse rate) in the troposphere is usually given as 2.0 Celsius per 1,000 feet. 
The normal lapse rate, or average temperature decrease in the troposphere with increasing altitude, is __________ per kilometer. a. 3.5 degrees C b. 6.5 degrees C c. 1.5 degrees C d. 1.0 degrees C e. 5.5 degrees C. Follow. The normal lapse rate, or average temperature decrease in the troposphere with increasing altitude, is __________ per kilometer. a. 3.5 degrees C. b. 6.5 degrees C. c. 1.5 degrees C
Any layer where temperature is constant with height is called isothermal. The tropopause has an average height of about 10 km (it is higher in equatorial regions and lower in polar regions). This height corresponds to about 7 miles, or at approximately the 200 mb (20.0 kPa) pressure level. Above the troposphere is the stratosphere.