An affected person usually has unaffected parents who each carry a single copy of the mutated gene (and are referred to as carriers) (illustration). Autosomal recessive disorders are typically not seen in every generation of an affected family. cystic fibrosis, sickle cell anemia. X-linked dominant. X-linked dominant disorders are caused by mutations in genes on the X chromosome. Females are more frequently affected than males, and the chance of passing on an X-linked dominant disorder differs between men (illustration) and women
Autosomal recessive inheritance means that the gene is located on one of the autosomes (chromosome pairs 1 through 22). This means that males and females are equally affected. Recessive means that two copies of the gene are necessary to have the trait, one inherited from the mother, and one from the father. Autosomal recessive: cystic fibrosis (CF), sickle cell anemia (SC), Tay Sachs disease. Genes are inherited from our biological parents in specific ways. One of the basic patterns of inheritance of our genes is called autosomal recessive inheritance.
Best Answer: An example of a Recessive Disorder would be cystic fibrosis, and colorblindness. As for a Dominant Disorder, it would be polydactyly, muscular dystrophy, and huntingtons disease. If you were to read a punnet square, the recessive disorder would represented by two lowercase letters. 
See autosomal recessive diseases for a full list. Recessive diseases often occur in genes that produce an enzyme. In a carrier, who has only one bad copy, there is often no disease, because the second gene can pull up the slack, and maintain health. In some recessive diseases, a carrier gets a mild form of the disease.
In dominant genetic diseases, the bad gene overcomes the good gene and disease occurs, whereas in recessive diseases the good gene is an adequate backup and recessive diseases do not occur unless both copies are damaged. But it is not always so black and white. Inheritance patterns for autosomal dominance: This refers to diseases where the error is in one of the autosome chromosomes, and the bad gene dominates. Some features of autosomal dominant genetic diseases are: 1  No carriers: Everyone who has the genetic error gets the disease, because the bad gene is dominant.
These genetic diseases are diseases caused by an error in a single DNA gene. Autosomal means the errors occurs on chromosome 1..22 rather than on the 23rd sex-linked X chromosome. Recessive means that disease only occurs when a person has two copies of the bad gene. Usually this means they must inherit the disease from both parents. Some examples of autosomal recessive diseases are Cystic Fibrosis, Phenylketonuria, Sickle Cell Anemia, Tay Sachs, Albinism, and galactosemia. Recessive diseases often occur in genes that produce an enzyme. In a carrier, who has only one bad copy, there is often no disease, because the second gene can pull up the slack, and maintain health. In some recessive diseases, a carrier gets a mild form of the disease.
Autosomal dominant. One mutated copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient for a person to be affected by an autosomal dominant disorder. Each affected person usually has one affected parent (illustration). Autosomal dominant disorders tend to occur in every generation of an affected family. X-linked dominant disorders are caused by mutations in genes on the X chromosome. Females are more frequently affected than males, and the chance of passing on an X-linked dominant disorder differs between men (illustration) and women
See autosomal dominant diseases and autosomal dominant for a full list. Dominance: A genetic trait is often said to be dominant or recessive. A dominant trait is more likely to cause disease, because only one of the two copies of each gene needs to be damaged. Inheritance patterns for autosomal dominance: This refers to diseases where the error is in one of the autosome chromosomes, and the bad gene dominates. Some features of autosomal dominant genetic diseases are: 1  No carriers: Everyone who has the genetic error gets the disease, because the bad gene is dominant.
A double-dominant disease is like a recessive disease, except that carriers of it have the ordinary single-dominant condition. For example, the genetic dominant condition of achondroplasia (dwarfism) causes reduced growth especially in long bones, and also larger head with a prominent forehead and a depressed nose. Inheritance patterns for autosomal dominance: This refers to diseases where the error is in one of the autosome chromosomes, and the bad gene dominates. Some features of autosomal dominant genetic diseases are: 1  No carriers: Everyone who has the genetic error gets the disease, because the bad gene is dominant.
When a genetic disorder is recessive, that means that two copies of  the gene are necessary to have the trait or disorder. One is  inherited from the mother, and one from th … e father. Disorders of  this type include: cystic fibrosis, sickle cell anemia, and  Tay-Sachs disease. 