Words like data, information, and knowledge are often used interchangeably. But there are some important differences: 1  Data is a specific fact or figure, without any context. 2  For example, the number 1,000 is a piece of data, as is the name Tom Smith. 3  Without anything else to define them, these two items of data are meaningless.
The paper focus on motivators and demotivators to sharing Knowledge in workplace. Theories and research pertaining to why workers share knowledge are reviewed. While all industry need knowledge and innovation, it is also true that the pace of change and the need to innovate differs from industry to industry. 
One problem is the fact that many 2 Chapter 8 Knowledge Management in the Workplace organisations have downsized their staff levels and found that, as people walk out of the door, vital knowledge goes with them. The sheer scale of information, however, is also increasing. According to Hildebrand (1999) ‘knowledge management is in danger of being perceived as so seamlessly entwined with technology that its true critical 13 Chapter 8 Knowledge Management in the Workplace success factors will be lost in the pleasing hum of servers, software and pipes’.
Workplace skills, often called employability skills, are the basic skills a person must have to succeed in any workplace. They are the core knowledge, skills and attitudes that allow workers to understand instructions, solve problems and get along with co-workers and customers. Job skills are the knowledge and experience required to perform a specific job. For example, a nurse must know how to safely give an injection and must be a registered nurse (RN). Workplace skills are more general and are the foundation upon which job skills are built.
The role of tacit andexplicit knowledge inthe workplace Elizabeth A. Smith Introduction People have always passed their accumulatedknowledge and commercial wisdom on tofuture generations by telling stories abouttheir thoughts, work and experiences. Companies that dealsuccessfully with this tension use the varioustypes of tacit and explicit knowledge to their318 The role of tacit and explicit knowledge in the workplace Elizabeth A. Smith Journal of Knowledge ManagementVolume5.Number4.2001.311±321.
Knowledge workers are workers whose main capital is knowledge. Typical examples may include software engineers, physicians, Pharmacists, architects, engineers, scientists, public accountants, lawyers, and academics, whose job is to think for a living. An architect is an example of a typical knowledge worker. Knowledge workers are employees who have a deep background in education and experience and are considered people who think for a living.. They include software developers, doctors, lawyers, inventors, teachers, financial analysts and architects.
Addressing Weaknesses. Most employees have some weaknesses in their workplace skills. A training program allows you to strengthen those skills that each employee needs to improve. A development program brings all employees to a higher level so they all have similar skills and knowledge. Consistency. A structured training and development program ensures that employees have a consistent experience and background knowledge. The consistency is particularly relevant for the company's basic policies and procedures. All employees need to be aware of the expectations and procedures within the company.
Chapter 8 Knowledge Management in the Workplace1 David E. Gray After reading this chapter you will be able to: • • • • • Define knowledge management, and distinguish between data, information and knowledge. Describe and explain the growing strategic significance of knowledge management. According to Hildebrand (1999) ‘knowledge management is in danger of being perceived as so seamlessly entwined with technology that its true critical 13 Chapter 8 Knowledge Management in the Workplace success factors will be lost in the pleasing hum of servers, software and pipes’.
Employees are also evaluated316 The role of tacit and explicit knowledge in the workplace Elizabeth A. Smith Journal of Knowledge ManagementVolume5.Number4.2001.311±321. on how well they immerse themselves invarious projects, work with differentgroups to meet priorities and meetclients’ needs. Companies that dealsuccessfully with this tension use the varioustypes of tacit and explicit knowledge to their318