In most adults, your appendix can be located on the lower right side of your abdomen usually one third of the way between your belly button and hip bone. Note that this location may be different for pregnant woman. Watch for a path of pain. 
1 The appendix is located at the lower right quadrant of the abdomen and it is connected to the cecum which is part of the large intestine. 2  The cecum is a pouch at the beginning of the large intestine and not the end, the end is the anus. Your appendix is at the Ileocecul junction, which is where the ileum from your small intestine and the cecum from your colon meet. It is located on the right lower quadrant of your abdomen. Additional contributor opinions:
The location of the appendix is in the lower right quadrant of your abdome n. If you place your hand on your abdomen with the tip of your little finger just touching your pelvic bone and your thumb at your navel, your appendix is right under there usually about where your middle finger lands. 
1 Your appendix is located at the end of your large intestine. 2  It is normally located in the lower right quarter of the abdomen. 3  Checking my scar... 4  It is (or should I say was) on the lower right side of the abdomen, about half way between the top of the right hip bone and the belly button. Your appendix is at the Ileocecul junction, which is where the ileum from your small intestine and the cecum from your colon meet. It is located on the right lower quadrant of your abdomen. Additional contributor opinions:
Front View of the Appendix. The appendix sits at the junction of the small intestine and large intestine. It’s a thin tube about four inches long. Normally, the appendix sits in the lower right abdomen. The function of the appendix is unknown. One theory is that the appendix acts as a storehouse for good bacteria, “rebooting” the digestive system after diarrheal illnesses. Other experts believe the appendix is just a useless remnant from our evolutionary past
1 Appendicitis: For unclear reasons, the appendix often becomes inflamed, infected, and can rupture. 2  This causes severe pain in the right lower part of the belly, along with nausea and vomiting. 3  Tumors of the appendix: Carcinoid tumors secrete chemicals that cause periodic flushing, wheezing, and diarrhea. It’s a thin tube about four inches long. Normally, the appendix sits in the lower right abdomen. The function of the appendix is unknown. One theory is that the appendix acts as a storehouse for good bacteria, “rebooting” the digestive system after diarrheal illnesses.
Appendix. Extending from the inferior end of the large intestine’s cecum, the human appendix is a narrow pouch of tissue whose resemblance to a worm inspired its alternate name, vermiform (worm-like) appendix. 
Appendix Location – Where is My Appendix Located. appendix symptoms ,where is my appendix located, where is your appendix located, where is appendix. Appendix Location: Appendix problem is one of the well-known diseases which you can hear in daily life. It is very common disease in most of the countries