Concrete construction unit cost for installation of concrete footings for a foundation or retaining wall. This cost covers the cost per foot of any size of footing. Use it in combination with the footing cost per yard. NOTE -- This is half of a two-part unit cost that covers any footing size. 
Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Concrete Block Wall Cap Installation project. For a basic 25 feet project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install a Concrete Block Wall Cap ranges between $13.26 - $16.36 per linear foot. To estimate costs for your project: 1. Set Project Zip Code Enter the Zip Code for the location where labor is hired and materials purchased
Poured Concrete Wall Costs. Concrete prices vary widely by region of the country and time of year. Ready-mixed concrete will cost between $65 and $90 per cubic yard (3’x3’x3’) . To put this into perspective, a wall 9’x27’x12” thick would take 9 cubic feet of concrete. Building a concrete wall also requires reinforcing metal bar, or re-bar to help solidify the wall. Labor costs will vary depending on the company you hire. Some companies have reusable concrete forms to build walls and this keeps their costs down. These companies typically charge about $3 to $5 per square foot of wall (disregard thickness of the wall). Other companies build concrete wall forms from scratch for each job and this drives cost slightly higher
1 The Wall-for a cast in place (concrete) retaining wall with a vertical face, installed on no more than a 33 degree slope with a level embankment, at 6' high (including excavation and backfill) the cost will be $12,800. 1 Costs will vary widely. 2  The Wall-for a cast in place (concrete) retaining wall with a vertical face, installed on no more than a 33 degree slope with a level embankment, at 6' high (including excavation and backfill) the cost will be $12,800.
A natural stone wall will cost around $8 to $12 per square foot based on the type of stone chosen. A concrete block wall costs $6.10 to $7.60 per linear foot. Homeowners will also need to pay for any other materials needed, including steel bars, sand to keep the stones from rubbing against each other and mortar. Cost of Materials. The cost of adding a new wall to a home depends on the material used. Brick walls are often an affordable option, and a hollow brick wall costs around $25.40 per square foot.
Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Concrete Block Wall Installation project. For a basic 120 square feet project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install a Concrete Block Wall ranges between $8.59 - $11.70 per square foot* . To estimate costs for your project: 1. Set Project Zip Code Enter the Zip Code for the location where labor is hired and materials purchased
For Ralston, $39 per square foot is the average cost he charges for a wall under 4 feet tall. For walls below 4 feet, he says his prices are often competitive with finished block. A block wall has to be stuccoed or finished with veneer, while a concrete wall does not need an added finish. Retaining Wall Cost. Poured retaining walls with elaborate curves require complex formwork and will drive up cost for a wall. The total cost to have a concrete retaining wall installed will be a combination of material and labor prices. For a basic wall you can expect to pay between $30 and $40 per square foot. If you add a decorative finish, curves, steps, lighting or other upgrades, the cost will rise