VLAN 1 is also known as the default VLAN. Because it is the default, the other types of VLANs, the native VLAN, the management VLAN and the user VLANs, are all automatically members of VLAN 1. [1] All Ethernet interfaces on Catalyst switches default to VLAN 1.
• Between VLANs and subnets one to one relationship exists, that means one subnet can be assigned to one VLAN. Although it’s possible, trying to assign more than one subnet for a VLAN is not a good network design planning. • VLAN boundary marks the end of a logical subnet. VLAN is a logical group of networks created regardless of their physical location which helps to create smaller broadcast domains within WS-C2960-24TT-L switch. For these VLANs, different ports can be assigned. Without VLANs, a switch considers all interfaces to a switch are in one broadcast domain.
In telecommunications and computer networking, a subinterface is a division of one physical interface into multiple logical interfaces. 
A virtual LAN (VLAN) is any broadcast domain that is partitioned and isolated in a computer network at the data link layer (OSI layer 2). LAN is an abbreviation of local area network. To subdivide a network into virtual LANs, one configures a network switch or router. Simpler network devices can only partition per physical port (if at all), in which case each VLAN is connected with a dedicated network cable (and VLAN connectivity is limited by the number of hardware ports available).
VLANs: When we create the sub interfaces on the routers, we tell the router which VLAN to associate with that sub interface, on the same line as the encapsulate command (example below we are using vlan 10 and vlan 20 on subinterface .1 and .2). What is a sub-interface in a router, why it is created and what is its requirement?In case if we need to communicate between two sub-interfaces in two routers do we need to add vlans also on routers?
dot1q vlan. To assign a VLAN ID to a subinterface (or to modify the VLAN ID that is currently assigned to a subinterface), use the dot1q vlan command in subinterface configuration mode. To remove the VLAN ID assigned to a subinterface, use the no form of this command
Re: Sub-Interface. By begining with the creation of only one subinterface on a physical interface, I think that it's a kind of anticipation for a future growth of the network. If we want to create (attach) another network to the router, it will be an easy task. What is a sub-interface in a router, why it is created and what is its requirement?In case if we need to communicate between two sub-interfaces in two routers do we need to add vlans also on routers?
VLAN (Virtual Local Area Network) is a logical local area network (or LAN) that extends beyond a single traditional LAN to a group of LAN segments, given specific configurations. Since a VLAN is a logical entity, its creation and configuration is done completely in software. 1 VLAN Translation Mode – VLAN translation mode is used when the frame tagging method is changed in the network path or if the frame traverses from a VLAN group to a traditional or native interface that is not configured in a VLAN.