Redbud trees are basically a small tree that grows about 20 to 30 feet tall and they will grow about 25 feet wide so you need to make allowances for that when you plant one. One can find the Eastern Redbud from New Jersey and southern Pennsylvania and they will range northwest to southern Michigan. 
Mature Height/Spread. Redbuds always remain small, maturing at 20 to 30 feet in height and 15 to 35 feet in width. They generally grow as a small tree with a divided trunk close to the ground. The spreading crown is usually rounded to flat-topped. It can develop as a multi-trunk shrub. Redbuds grow at a moderate rate, about 7 to 10 feet in five to six years. They tend to be short-lived, often declining from disease after about 20 years. The most appealing feature of this tree is the showy flower, which is magenta in bud, but opens to lavender-pink before the leaves emerge early in spring.
Some redbud trees feature reddish purple young growth. Cercis canadensis, commonly called Eastern redbud tree, is hardy in U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) plant hardiness zones 4 through 9, depending on the variety. It is a member of the Bean (Fabaceae) family. Varieties. Many Eastern redbud varieties feature a similar growth rate. Forest Pansy (Cercis canadensis Forest Pansy), hardy in USDA zones 5 through 9, is a purple-leaved variety with flowers that are somewhat darker than other Eastern redbuds.
Plant in a permanent location, as the tree does not do well when transplanted. If growing multiple redbuds, provide at least 25 feet of space between trees. The Texas redbud (Cercis canadensis var. texensis Oklahoma), hardy in USDA zones 6 to 9, and western redbud (Cercis occidentalis), hardy in USDA zones 7 to 9, are more tolerant of warm weather. Both will grow in full sun or partial shade. 
Redbud trees prefer loose, well-drained soil, but they are very sturdy and can thrive in the majority of soil types. If you do decide to amend the soil, though, you can do so simply by chopping the soil up with a rake or shovel to loosen it. Skip the fertilizer. Redbud trees grow well enough on their own without the use of fertilizer. Moreover, since the trees have the ability to absorb nitrogen on their own, adding a nitrogen-rich fertilizer will only overdose the tree.
Redbud. The Redbud tree produces small gorgeous pink flowers and provides beautiful green leaves. The flowers of the Redbud tree are small. This tree will grow to be 20 to 30 feet tall. It will thrive in full sunlight. This tree will adapt well to various soil types. It will also grow around 3 to 4 feet each year
Introduction: The state tree of Oklahoma, Eastern Redbud is a moderate to rapid-grower when young, reaching a height of 20 to 30 feet. Thirty-year-old specimens are rare but they can reach 35 feet in height forming a rounded vase. Trees of this size are often found on moist sites. 
Growth Rate. California redbud has a moderate to fast growth rate. In one season, it can grow 24 to 36 inches, according to the Cal Poly Urban Forest Ecosystems Institute. Although this plant tolerates drought, it grows more quickly if watered occasionally during dry weather. Mature Size. Western redbud grows 12 to 20 feet tall, although it can be kept more compact with annual pruning. One tree in Santa Rosa stands 45 feet tall with a trunk circumference of 71 inches, according to Cal Poly. A healthy tree can live up to 150 years. Most trees have a rounded or slightly umbrella-like form.
Characteristics. An Eastern redbud tree reaches 7 to 10 feet tall in its first five or six years, according to Dirr. During the plant's early years, its trunk usually divides fairly close to the ground. When mature, the tree has a spreading, rounded crown. Varieties. Many Eastern redbud varieties feature a similar growth rate. Forest Pansy (Cercis canadensis Forest Pansy), hardy in USDA zones 5 through 9, is a purple-leaved variety with flowers that are somewhat darker than other Eastern redbuds.