People often say that you shouldn't stay married for the sake of the kids. After all, the logic goes, if parents are miserable, it will only hurt the kids. It's better for kids, they say, to have two happy parents who lead separate lives than to be exposed to sadness, emotional distance and conflict in their family. You don't have to just stay together for the sake of the kids; get happy for the sake of the kids! It will be a gift for a lifetime. Michele Weiner-Davis is the author of Divorce Busting and The Sex-Starved Marriage and founder of www.divorcebusting.com.
You stay in your marriage because, most of the time, you still love your spouse. You stay in your marriage because, by being with your spouse, you see yourself growing into a stronger, happier person. You stay in your marriage because you’ve made the choice to do so. You get out of a marriage because you’ve made the choice to do so, too. Not every marriage can be saved. Try everything to improve your marriage. Once your spouse is forced to walk on his or her own two feet-as all grownups should-he or she might just grow up and seek treatment. In the end, you should stay in your marriage because you want to, not because you think you have to. You stay in your marriage because you believe it has potential
The billion dollar question of all divorces: should you stay together for the kids? Our Experts take on co-parenting, divorce and help you decide if it's best for your kids if you stay together or split up for good. Meet The Experts: Paula Bisacre. 
And if you are a spouse who makes the majority of the money -- regardless of gender, make certain you understand your state’s laws well enough so that you know what your financial commitments to your former spouse or your children may be if you decide to pursue a divorce. To secure your financial future, no matter what you decide, you should go to the bank and open a bank account in your own name. Stop directly depositing into marital bank accounts. Have the checks sent to you and deposit them yourself or send them to your new account.
P.S. – If your marriage is in danger of separation or divorce, call us at (866) 903-0990 to speak with someone or use the form below to request more information about our Marriage Helper 911 workshop for troubled marriages. 
By Michele Weiner-Davis, YourTango.com. People often say that you shouldn't stay married for the sake of the kids. After all, as the logic goes, if parents are miserable, it will only hurt the kids. READ: The Search For the Perfect Age to Have Kids.
4. TALK WITH YOUR SPOUSE. Tell them what you’re thinking and why and see if you can seek out marriage counseling to resolve the issues that both of you may have. If abuse is not involved, it’s better to save your marriage if possible, particularly if there are children involved. To secure your financial future, no matter what you decide, you should go to the bank and open a bank account in your own name. Stop directly depositing into marital bank accounts. Have the checks sent to you and deposit them yourself or send them to your new account.
A Marriage Repaired: You can take on your marriage, improve yourself, deal with your children; or look realistically at divorce. There is dignity in making it work. And, there’s dignity in starting fresh for the right reasons. Take a look at Harville Hendrix or John Gottman's work on rehabilitating a marriage. 
Though Linda says it is wrong to stay in a marriage for the sake of the kids, from my experience working with thousands of couples, I state unequivocally that it is wrong to divorce without first considering your children. Consider the Children’s Present. Children sometimes desire things that are bad for them. “If you are not happy, divorce your spouse and move on to whatever might be next. Do not let your children deter your decision. They may hurt for a while, but they will adapt eventually; therefore, do what makes you happy now and let things work out for the kids later.”.