(Redirected from Muscadine). Vitis rotundifolia, or muscadine, is a grapevine species native to the southeastern and south-central United States from Florida to Delaware, west to eastern Texas and Oklahoma. It has been extensively cultivated since the 16th century. Other traditional Southern U.S. muscadine-derived food products are readily available: jelly, preserves, syrup, and sauce. The fresh grape is available in season, September and October. The juice is available, white and colored.
The muscadine grape differs from other grapes in several ways. First, the most notable difference is the thick skin of the grape. This thick skins give muscadine grapes a natural resistance to disease, fungi, and insects, and is where much of the antioxidant power of the muscadine grape is stored. These thick skins account for 40% or the weight of the grape.
The Muscadine is America's Grape. Many of us grew up enjoying this delicious southern grape. There is nothing more enjoyable than planting and harvesting fruit from your own muscadine vines. The muscadine vine is native to the Southeastern U.S. and thrives in our hot and humid growing conditions.
The muscadine grape (Vitis rotundifolia Michx.) is native to the southeastern United States and was the first native grape species to be cultivated in North America. The natural range of muscadine grapes extends from Delaware to central Florida and occurs in all states along the Gulf Coast to east Texas. The shoots of muscadine grapes arise from buds in the leaf axils of the past season's growth. The fruit of muscadine grapes is borne in 6- to 12-berry clusters on the current year's growth. Flowers appear after several weeks of shoot growth, usually in April.
Muscadines are known as American wild grapes, a native species that grows only in the hot, humid southeastern United States. Unlike bunch grapes, muscadines are resistant to most fungal and bacterial infections due to the production of antioxidants by the plants. 
Muscadine grapes (Muscadinia rotundifolia; formerly Vitis rotundifolia) are truly a fruit for the South. Native to the Southeastern United States, they were discovered by the early colonists and have been a favorite fruit of Southerners ever since. However, for home fruit production, muscadine cultivars are typically chosen for a large berry size, sweet flavor, disease resistance, productivity, and possibly uniform ripening of the fruit on the vines. Generally, the self-fruitful cultivars will have higher productivity than will the female cultivars.
Definition of MUSCADINE. : a grape (Vitis rotundifolia) of the southern United States with musky fruits borne in small clusters; also: the fruit. ADVERTISEMENT. probably alteration of muscatel. First Known Use: circa 1785
Origin: The muscadine grape is native to the southeastern United States, found in the wild from Delaware to the Gulf of Mexico and westward to Missouri, Kansas, Oklahoma, and Texas. Muscadines do not readily hybridize with other grape species. Fruit: The fruit is borne in small, loose clusters of 3-40 grapes, quite unlike the large, tight bunches characteristic of European and American grapes. The round, 1 to 1-1/2 inch fruits have a thick, tough skin and contain up to 5 hard, oblong seeds.
There are over 100 improved cultivars of muscadine grapes that vary in size from 1/4 to 1 1/2 inches in diameter and 4 to 15 grams in weight. Skin color ranges from light bronze to pink to purple to black. Flesh is clear and translucent for all muscadine grape berries. The shoots of muscadine grapes arise from buds in the leaf axils of the past season's growth. The fruit of muscadine grapes is borne in 6- to 12-berry clusters on the current year's growth. Flowers appear after several weeks of shoot growth, usually in April.