Raw Silk Fabrics. Also known as Silk Noil. This is a slightly nubby fabric with random flecks in a natural, off-white color. It has a somewhat rough texture and a gentle drape. Remember, bolts vary! They can be over or under-we charge you for the actual yardage. If you need very specific yardage, order cut yardage.
Anyway, that’s raw silk, in the best way it’s ever been explained to me. Drake’s new variety of raw silk grenadines at the moment can be found through Mr. Porter, Barney’s, and Drake’s website itself. They may or may not go on sale. I was afraid this one wouldn’t, which is why I bought early. 
Silk is a natural protein fiber, some forms of which can be woven into textiles. The protein fiber of silk is composed mainly of fibroin and is produced by certain insect larvae to form cocoons. The best-known silk is obtained from the cocoons of the larvae of the mulberry silkworm Bombyx mori reared in captivity (sericulture). Silk is mainly produced by the larvae of insects undergoing complete metamorphosis, but some adult insects such as webspinners also produce silk, and some insects such as raspy crickets produce silk throughout their lives.
Raw Thai silk is a filament silk from which the gum (one of the components of silk) has not yet been removed. Pure Thai silk has had the gum removed. They do this by hand-reeling the threads onto a wooden spindle to produce a uniform strand of raw silk. Raw Thai silk is typically a short fiber silk recycled from spinning silk and has a strong odor due to impurities in the yarn.
raw silk. n. 1. (Textiles) untreated silk fibres reeled from the cocoon. 2. (Textiles) fabric woven from such fibres. How good was the touch of the raw silk to her flesh. The Awakening and Selected Short Stories by Chopin, Kate View in context. I told him we would sell our cargo and purchase China wares, calicoes, raw silks, tea, wrought silks, &c.
A raw Thai silk fabric may fool you into thinking that it is cotton or synthetic. The fabric has irregular surface with rough and nubbly appearance. The nubbly texture of the silk comes from the use of very short fibers (called “silk noil”) to weave the fabric. They do this by hand-reeling the threads onto a wooden spindle to produce a uniform strand of raw silk. Raw Thai silk is typically a short fiber silk recycled from spinning silk and has a strong odor due to impurities in the yarn.
If you prefer bright colors, dry-clean or hand wash. Raw silk Raw silk is any silk yarn or fabric that hasn't had the sericin-the natural gum that protects the fiber-removed. The fabric is stiff and dull and the sericin tends to attract dirt and odors. The raw silk is then processed to remove the sericin-the natural gum that protects the fibers and causes them to stick to each other as the cocoon was spun. Silk is a protein fiber, similar to wool or to human hair. It is only natural for silks to have some irregularities  sometimes called slubs.
Weaving Raw Thai Silk. Raw Thai silk taken directly from the filature is too fine to be woven. Before it is woven into fabric, it goes through a series of operations which conditions for the loom. They do this by hand-reeling the threads onto a wooden spindle to produce a uniform strand of raw silk. Raw Thai silk is typically a short fiber silk recycled from spinning silk and has a strong odor due to impurities in the yarn.
Raw silk is typically a short fiber silk recycled from spinning silk. In the production of mulberry silk only a certain middle section of the cocoon can be unreeled for spinning Thai silk. The waste silk is the raw Thai silk and it has a smooth feel with some bumps and a low luster. They do this by hand-reeling the threads onto a wooden spindle to produce a uniform strand of raw silk. Raw Thai silk is typically a short fiber silk recycled from spinning silk and has a strong odor due to impurities in the yarn.
Definition of RAW SILK. 1. : reeled silk before the gum is removed. 2. : a woven or knitted fabric of spun silk. 