How long it can take for a sprained knee to heel is dependent upon  the severity of the injury and the patients capacity to heal. It  could take anywhere from a few weeks to … a couple of months for  healing to occur. It depends on the usage. If you can lock your wrist in a stable position with something like a brace, the immobility will relieve tendons and ligaments of strain which will speed the healing process. Even then, it could take up to 6 weeks to fully recover. Light rehab can help depending on the severity of the sprain.
Confidence votes 6. texting or use other hand. I sprained my arm by falling off the couch and it took 3 to 4 to 5 days to heal! then today at school i tripped and broke it. It will take 2-3 weeks to be normal, but to heal it rest it then it will take 5-6 days. i injured my right hand wrist by having a scooter accident my whole wrist hurts I cant move it up down left right is this a a sprained wrist or a fracture. How long does it take for a sprained foot to heal? It generally takes 3 to 6 weeks for a mild to moderate sprain to heal. to fully heal the ankle it takes 1 year.
To speed the healing, you can: 1  Rest your wrist for at least 48 hours. 2  Ice your wrist to reduce pain and swelling. 3  Do it for 20-30 minutes every three to four hours for two to three days, or until the pain is gone. 4  Compress the wrist with a bandage. 1 Rest your wrist for at least 48 hours. 2  Ice your wrist to reduce pain and swelling. 3  Do it for 20-30 minutes every three to four hours for two to three days, or until the pain is gone. 4  Compress the wrist with a bandage. 5  Elevate your wrist above your heart, on a pillow or the back of a chair. as often as you can
The end result can be tears or breaks in the ligaments. Depending on how severe a wrist sprain is, it can take anywhere from two weeks to three months to heal. Minor sprains will heal quicker than more severe sprains. If the wrist sprain consists of snapped ligaments, a person will likely need surgery to repair it and healing time will be longer. 
Report Abuse. It depends on how bad the sprain is. Some can take up to months to heal but some can take up to a matter of weeks. Try to move the wrist though because if it gets stiff it will take longer to heal. dramaqueen123 · 6 years ago.
Answer: Well, when considering how long it might take for a sprain to heal, you need to consider that there are varying degrees of sprain injuries. There's a grade one, where the ligament that holds the joint in place is stretched. As you can imagine, that's going to really impact just how long it takes for that ligament to heal itself back together. General rule of thumb, say for ankle sprain, perhaps a grade one: two, three weeks; grade two: four weeks; and a grade three: sometimes four, six weeks -- sometimes longer. Comments. .
1 Ice your wrist to reduce pain and swelling. 2  Do it for 20-30 minutes every three to four hours for two to three days, or until the pain is gone. 3  Compress the wrist with a bandage. 4  Elevate your wrist above your heart, on a pillow or the back of a chair. as often as you can. 5  Take anti-inflammatory painkillers. 1 Rest your wrist for at least 48 hours. 2  Ice your wrist to reduce pain and swelling. 3  Do it for 20-30 minutes every three to four hours for two to three days, or until the pain is gone. 4  Compress the wrist with a bandage. 5  Elevate your wrist above your heart, on a pillow or the back of a chair. as often as you can
It all depends on how bad the sprain is. Sometimes you can tear tendons and muscles, and if you tore a tendon it is worse than a broken bone, in that case it would take some time to heal. If you know for sure that it is not broken, then wrap it and give it a rest. mingus_optech · 9 years ago. Thumbs up. 2. 
Rest your wrist to give it time to heal. You may find that, depending on the severity of the sprain, immobilization through a soft cast is necessary. If your sprain is the result of a sports injury, you should stop playing the sport immediately, at least for a few weeks while your wrist heals. Rest and immobilize your wrist for faster healing. A sprained wrist is a common fall-related injury, since you instinctively extend your hand and often land with your weight on your wrist. If you're an athlete, a sprained wrist can put a major wrench in your plans when you're taken out of the game for a few weeks.