8 49 50 Text station name to the above number for live departure and arrival times direct to your mobile. TrainTrackerTM texts cost 25p for each succesful response (plus usual text costs). nationalrail.co.uk Online Online 24 hour Travel Information Scan this code with your mobile to take this poster with you. Every effort has been made to ensure all information is correct at time of print.
Dagenham Heathway is a London Underground station on the District line located in the London Borough of Barking and Dagenham. It is in London fare zone 5. The station was opened in 1932. The station was constructed and initially operated by the London, Midland and Scottish Railway with services provided by the District line from the outset. The station was called Heathway when it first opened, changing to its present name in 1949
It has formed part of Greater London since 1965 and is a predominantly residential area, with some areas of declining industrial activity, including the Ford Dagenham plant. A large part of Dagenham is within the Becontree estate; however, the area also includes Becontree Heath, part of Rush Green, Old Dagenham village, and the southern section around Dagenham Dock and adjacent to the River Thames.
8 49 50 Text station name to the above number for live departure and arrival times direct to your mobile. TrainTrackerTM texts cost 25p for each succesful response (plus usual text costs). nationalrail.co.uk www Online www Online 24 hour Travel Information Scan this code with your mobile to take this poster with you. Every effort has been made to ensure all information is correct at time of print.
The southern part of Dagenham is also known as South Romford and is also adjacent to the River Thames, forms part of the London Riverside section of the Thames Gateway redevelopment area. A large part of Dagenham is within the Becontree estate; however, the area also includes Becontree Heath, part of Rush Green, Old Dagenham village, and the southern section around Dagenham Dock and adjacent to the River Thames.
Dagenham Heathway Tube Station London. Dagenham Heathway Tube Station lies in the Zone 5 of the London Underground. This tube station became operational back in 1932 under management of Scottish Railway, London and Midland started. 1 Sights & Attractions Visitors can find few parks in close proximity to the Dagenham Heathway Tube Station in London, when it comes to sights and attractions.
The entrance to Dagenham Heathway Tube Station can be made from the Heathway road that will lead you straight to the ticket hall. Passengers use the same passage to exit from this tube station. Places to explore near Dagenham East Tube Station. 1 Sights & Attractions Visitors can find few parks in close proximity to the Dagenham Heathway Tube Station in London, when it comes to sights and attractions.
Dagenham is a large suburb of east London, England. It forms part of the London Borough of Barking and Dagenham and is located approximately 11.5 miles (18.5 km) east of Charing Cross and around 9.5 miles (15.2 km) east of the City of London. A large part of Dagenham is within the Becontree estate; however, the area also includes Becontree Heath, part of Rush Green, Old Dagenham village, and the southern section around Dagenham Dock and adjacent to the River Thames.
Welcome to The Heathway Shopping Centre. Heathway Shopping centre is well-established with a loyal customer base, with over 70,000 people a week using it. The customer service and friendly atmosphere within the centre makes it a nice place to shop with 24 hour security available to assist you when needed. Heathway shopping where the shop staff know the regulars by name and likewise, a place to meet your friends and have a cup of tea. A place where you can enjoy a family friendly fun day and let your hair down with friends.