North Rupununi. The North Rupununi of southern Guyana is an extraordinary natural area. The landscape is an integration of four ecosystem types: wetlands, savannas, rivers, and forests. The number of species found here is much higher than expected given its size. There are at least 600 species of fish, along with 600 species of bird, and over 200 species of mammals. At present, there are a number of conservation organizations and eco-tourism companies based in the North Rupununi and there continues to be a substantial potential for expanded research and conservation in this area, as well as for eco-tourism and other sustainable development projects.
Settled in 1927 by Tiny McTurk, Karanambu was once a working cattle ranch and Balata collection station. It is now an eco-tourist destination known as The Karanambu Lodge. Karanambu encompasses approximately 110-square miles of savannah, marshy ponds, riparian forest, and a 30-mile stretch of the Rupununi River. The Lodge provides guests with the opportunity to experience the wildlife of Karanambu. The Karanambu Trust is active in conservation, research, training, and sustainable development. With a bird list of over 600 species, Karanambu is a birdwatcher’s paradise. The Lodge also provides excellent viewing opportunities of giant river otters, giant black caiman and giant anteaters.
It is actually located in western Guyana and it's also one of the world's most isolated and untouched waterfalls. Drios Falls is a waterfall on the Courentyne River, Guyana, approximately 245 km south of Orealla. Kaieteur Falls is a waterfall on the Potaro River in central Guyana. It is located in the Kaieteur National Park. It is 226 meters (741 feet) when measured from its plunge over a sandstone cliff to the first break. King George VI Falls is located on the Courentyne River in southern Guyana. It is the 19th highest waterfall in the world. Commonly known as King George Falls or King George VI Falls ,Salto Oshi is a sheer plunge of about 525 feet. Popular belief, stemming from who knows where, places this waterfall at 1600 feet tall.
Project Guyana: Saving Arapaimas and Wetlands. South America’s largest freshwater fish, the arapaima (AIR-uh-PYE-muh), is in danger of disappearing before we know enough about it to save it. But Shedd scientist Dr. Lesley de Souza is changing that. Her fieldwork in the remote Rupununi wetlands of Guyana, in South America, is a first-of-its-kind study of the migratory patterns of arapaimas. 
In addition, The North Rupununi wetlands and Iwokrama forest support numerous endangered and threatened species including greenheart (Chlorocardium rodiei), swamp dalli (Virola surinamensis), rosewood (Aniba rosaeodara), Eschweilera fanshawei, Eschweilera potaroensis, and Pouteria penicillata. Annual rainfall varies from 3,000 mm in the north to 1,400 mm in the south. The differences in rainfall are largely driven by two rainy seasons in the northern part of the Iwokrama Forest (driven by the Intertropical Convergent Zone) and only one rainy season (continental) in the Rupununi Wetlands.
Rupununi is a river and region in southern Guyana, South America, originating in the Kanuku Mountains. The Rupununi River runs from near the Brazilian border into the Essequibo River. The river during the flood season actually shares a watershed with the Amazon. During the rainy season it is connected to the Takutu River by the flooded Pirara Creek, draining the vast swamps of the Parima or Amaku Lake.
The Iwokrama Forest and North Rupununi Wetlands includes plant communities associated with fast flowing creeks, rapids, river islands, river levees, river margins, flood plains, swamps, and lakes (Clarke et al. 2001). The savannah areas include flooded grasslands that are important spawning areas. Annual rainfall varies from 3,000 mm in the north to 1,400 mm in the south. The differences in rainfall are largely driven by two rainy seasons in the northern part of the Iwokrama Forest (driven by the Intertropical Convergent Zone) and only one rainy season (continental) in the Rupununi Wetlands.
Located in the North Rupununi, a region of southwestern Guyana known for its expansive wetlands and savanna, as well as its biological and cultural diversity. There may be as many as 700 species of fish at Karanambu — more than anywhere on Earth. The Karanambu Trust is active in conservation, research, training, and sustainable development. With a bird list of over 600 species, Karanambu is a birdwatcher’s paradise. The Lodge also provides excellent viewing opportunities of giant river otters, giant black caiman and giant anteaters.
The Rupununi region is mostly made up of the Rupununi savannah, but contains rainforest habitat also. There are several indigenous peoples living in the area, including the Wapishana, the Macushi, and the Wai-wai. The Rupununi River runs from near the Brazilian border into the Essequibo River. The river during the flood season actually shares a watershed with the Amazon. During the rainy season it is connected to the Takutu River by the flooded Pirara Creek, draining the vast swamps of the Parima or Amaku Lake.