Facepalm! Jeez there are a lot of rookies chiming on this word. Endo as a term referring to a type of marijuana does not come from indoor.. It is a mispelling of the term Indo, which refers to one of the two species of marijuana, Cannabis Indica. Indica is said to provide more of a relaxed, body high whereas the other species, Cannabis Sativa, is said to create a higher energy, more cerebral high.
Endometrial cells are the lining cells of the uterus and are cells that are shed each month during menstruation. Endometriosis occurs when cells like the lining of the uterus grow in or on tissues outside the uterus; these areas are called endometriosis implants. These implants are most commonly found on the ovaries, the Fallopian tubes, outer surfaces of the uterus or intestines, and on the surface lining of the pelvic cavity. 1 Endometriosis is more common in women who are experiencing infertility than in fertile women, but the condition does not necessarily cause infertility. 2  Most women with endometriosis have no symptoms, however, when women do experience symptoms they may include: 3  Pelvic pain that may worsen
1 Generally, endometriosis is found in the pelvic cavity. 2  It can attach to any of the female reproductive organs (uterus, fallopian tubes, ovaries), the uterosacral ligaments, the peritoneum, or any of the spaces between the bladder, uterus/vagina, and rectum. MYTH: A hysterectomy will cure endometriosis. FACT: There is no cure for endometriosis, and most women undergoing a hysterectomy will still experience pain. 1  On average in the US, it takes 10 years from symptom onset to receive an accurate diagnosis of
Endometriosis-Topic Overview. Endometriosis (say en-doh-mee-tree-OH-sus) is a problem many women have during their childbearing years. It means that a type of tissue that lines your uterus is also growing outside your uterus. This does not always cause symptoms. This is your menstrual period. When you have endometriosis, the implants of tissue outside your uterus act just like the tissue lining your uterus. During your menstrual cycle, they get thicker, then break down and bleed. But the implants are outside your uterus, so the blood cannot flow out of your body.
Another theory suggests that endometrial tissue is distributed from the uterus to other parts of the body through the lymph system or through the blood system. A genetic theory suggests that it may be carried in the genes in certain families or that some families may have predisposing factors to endometriosis. Endometriosis is a painful, chronic disease that affects at least 6.3 million women and girls in the U.S., 1 million in Canada, and millions more worldwide.
Experts don't know what causes endometrial tissue to grow outside your uterus. But they do know that the female hormone estrogen makes the problem worse. Women have high levels of estrogen during their childbearing years. It is during these years-usually from their teens into their 40s-that women have endometriosis. This is your menstrual period. When you have endometriosis, the implants of tissue outside your uterus act just like the tissue lining your uterus. During your menstrual cycle, they get thicker, then break down and bleed. But the implants are outside your uterus, so the blood cannot flow out of your body.
Endometriosis is a disease in which tissue that normally grows inside the uterus grows outside it. The main symptoms are pelvic pain and infertility. Nearly half of those affected have chronic pelvic pain, while in 70% pain occurs during menstruation. Pain with sex is also common. Endometriosis is estimated to occur in roughly 6–10% of women. It is most common in those in their thirties and forties. It results in few deaths with this being estimated at 200 globally in 2013.
Endometriosis, sometimes called endo, is a common health problem in women. It gets its name from the word endometrium, (en-doh-MEE-tree-um) the tissue that normally lines the uterus or womb. Endometriosis happens when this tissue grows outside of your uterus and on other areas in your body where it doesn't belong. Symptoms of endometriosis can include: 1  Pain. 2  This is the most common symptom. 3  Women with endometriosis may have many different kinds of pain. 4  These include: 5  Very painful menstrual cramps. 6  The pain may get worse over time. 7  Chronic (long-term) pain in the lower back and pelvis.
Endometriosis (en-doh-mee-tree-OH-suhs) happens when the lining of the uterus (womb) grows outside of the uterus. It affects about 5 million American women. Endometriosis is especially common among women in their 30s and 40s. The most common symptom is pain. Symptoms of endometriosis can include: 1  Pain. 2  This is the most common symptom. 3  Women with endometriosis may have many different kinds of pain. 4  These include: 5  Very painful menstrual cramps. 6  The pain may get worse over time. 7  Chronic (long-term) pain in the lower back and pelvis.