On being informed that the steamer was bound to Rotterdam, the spokesman of the party expressed the greatest surprise and distress at the mistake which he and his two friends had made. The Moonstone by Collins, Wilkie View in context. Bingley was the principal spokesman, and Miss Bennet the principal object. 
spokesperson. noun speaker, official, spokesman or spokeswoman, voice, spin doctor (informal), mouthpiece The Opposition spokesperson struggled gamely on. spokesperson. A person who speaks on behalf of another or others: mouth, speaker, spokesman, spokeswoman. Informal: mouthpiece.
spokesman. 1. 'spokesman'. A spokesman is someone who is asked to speak as the representative of an organization or group of people. Noun. 1. spokesman-a male spokesperson. spokesperson, representative, interpreter, voice-an advocate who represents someone else's policy or purpose; the meeting was attended by spokespersons for all the major organs of government. noun.
Full Definition of SPOKESMAN. : a person who speaks as the representative of another or others often in a professional capacity. — spokes·man·ship \-ˌship\ noun. See spokesman defined for English-language learners. See spokesman defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 
spokesman noun [C]. › a man who ​acts as a ​spokesperson: The spokesman repeated the company's ​claim that it was not to blame for the accident. (Definition of spokesman from the Cambridge Business English Dictionary © Cambridge University Press).
spokesman. n, pl-men, -persons, -people or-women. 1. a person authorized to speak on behalf of another person, group of people, or organization. (ˈspoʊks mən). n., pl. Noun. 1. spokesman-a male spokesperson. spokesperson, representative, interpreter, voice-an advocate who represents someone else's policy or purpose; the meeting was attended by spokespersons for all the major organs of government. noun.
Synonyms and Antonyms of SPOKESMAN. Synonyms mouth, mouthpiece, point man, point person, prophet, speaker, spokesman. Related Words spokesmodel, spokeswoman; front, promoter, shill; communicator, sayer, talker; agent, ambassador, delegate, emissary, envoy, representative. 
a White House spokesman. spokesman for. a spokesman for the victims' families. Definition from the Longman Dictionary of Contemporary English. Advanced Learner's Dictionary. 