Take 3 tablets of 50 mg. milk thistle capsules the day after you use the ginger cleanse, and continue for three weeks. According the University of Maryland Medical Center website, several studies have suggested that flavonoids in the milk thistle protect the liver from toxins.
Ginger root, a popular ingredient in liver cleanses, may have anti-inflammatory effects Photo Credit Volosina/iStock/Getty Images. Your liver, the largest organ in your body, has the vital task of converting food to energy and cleaning alcohol and toxins from your body.
Certain herbal teas are believed to flush toxins and fat deposits from the liver, while also increasing hydration levels. The best teas for liver cleansing include ingredients such as dandelion root, ginger, clove, burdock root, chamomile, cinnamon and horsetail.
Many people are turning to natural liver cleanses to clear toxins and promote a healthy liver. If you are experiencing signs of liver disease--such as jaundice, weight loss, or excessive thirst--see your physician immediately.
Home Remedy for a Ginger Liver Cleanser. Ginger root, a popular ingredient in liver cleanses, may have anti-inflammatory effects Photo Credit Volosina/iStock/Getty Images. Your liver, the largest organ in your body, has the vital task of converting food to energy and cleaning alcohol and toxins from your body.
Herbs that can cleanse the liver include red beet, parsley, horsetail, birch leaves, chamomile and goldenrod. Herbs that can cleanse the lungs include slippery elm, marshmallow and Chinese ephedra. Herbs that can cleanse the kidneys include parsley, marshmallow, ginger, goldenseal and cedar berries.
Ginger as a Detox/Cleanser. Ginger is used in many popular cleansing programs, as it is thought to cleanse the body by stimulating digestion, circulation and sweating. Its digestive actions may serve to cleanse the build-up of waste and toxins in the colon, liver and other organs.
Prepare your body for the cleanse. In the days leading up to the detox, you should eat a lot of apples and drink as much apple juice as possible — this prepares the liver for the detox. 1  On the last day before you start the detox, try to drink 8oz of apple juice every 2 - 3 hours.
Just like the kidney cleanse, the liver cleanse lasts five days. There are two suggestions for how you can do this cleanse. First, you could do fresh, raw fruits and vegetables on days one and five, with a juice fast on days two, three and four.