Most metals are extracted from their ores ore: An ore is a rock containing enough quantities of a mineral that it is profitable to extract it. using a chemical reaction. Metals are rarely used in their pure form, and are usually mixed with other metals to improve their properties.
The reason we so rarely see pure iron is that it combines readily with oxygen. Indeed, iron's major drawback as a construction material is that it reacts with moist air (in a process called corrosion) to form the flaky, reddish-brown oxide we call rust.
Types of iron. Pure iron is too soft and reactive to be of much real use, so most of the iron we tend to use for everyday purposes is actually in the form of iron alloys: iron mixed with other elements (especially carbon) to make stronger, more resilient forms of the metal including steel.
Lesson Summary. Iron is an abundant metallic element, formed by stellar fusion. It is mined primarily from rocks containing hematite and magnetite. Although once used in its pure form to make a variety of items (thus, the Iron Age and Iron Horse), today its principal use is as the primary component of steel. It is mined both from open pits and from deep underground. China is the world leader in production.
Iron is rarely found in its pure form on the surface of the earth; as it tends to get oxidized when it comes in contact with atmospheric oxygen. For this reason, most of its ores are in the form of iron oxides.
Iron atoms contain 26 protons in their nuclei. The chemical symbol, Fe, comes from its Latin name, ferrum. It is a soft, brittle metal in its pure form, but is strengthened by impurities-such as carbon-that are added to it to make steel, for which over 98% of the iron ore mined today is used.
Iron is a metallic chemical element that is very common in our planet. It has many uses in different industries and even in the human body. Iron has a chemical symbol of Fe. It is in a category of transition elements and is rarely found in pure form. Iron gets oxidized when it comes in contact with atmospheric oxygen. That’s why most of its ores that you can find in the surface of the earth are in the form of iron oxides.