An often-silent disease. The right and left carotid arteries branch off the aorta soon after it emerges from the heart and run up to the brain along either side of the neck. These vitally important arteries are prone to atherosclerosis, the damaging process that clogs arteries in the heart, kidneys, legs, and elsewhere. 
Anatomy of Arteries vs Veins. Anatomy of an artery. Arteries that carry blood from the heart to other parts of the body are known as systemic arteries while those that carry deoxygenated blood to the lungs are known as pulmonary arteries. 
Arteries and veins. The arteries carry blood from the heart while veins return blood to it. With both, their structure is related to their function. In order to see this content you need to have both Javascript enabled and Flash installed. Visit BBC Webwise for full instructions. 
An artery is an elastic blood vessel that transports blood away from the heart. There are two main types of arteries: pulmonary arteries and systemic arteries. Pulmonary arteries carry blood from the heart to the lungs where the blood picks up oxygen. The oxygen rich blood is then returned to the heart via the pulmonary veins. Systemic arteries deliver blood to the rest of the body. 
STRUCTURE OF AN ARTERY. A vessel carrying blood from the heart to the tissues.. Pulmonary arteries carry deoxygenated blood from the right ventricle to the lungs to pick up oxygen and to release carbon dioxide; in contrast, systemic arteries carry oxygenated blood from the left ventricle to the rest of the body. pulmonary artery. The right and left pulmonary arteries branch from the pulmonary trunk. They carry deoxygenated blood (from the right ventricle) into the lungs to exchange respiratory gases at the capillaries that surround the alveoli.
In Depth: Arteries and Nerves. There are 12 pairs of major nerves in the head, called cranial nerves, which serve both sides of the body. All but two pairs—olfactory and optic—arise from the brainstem. These other two pairs emerge from the brain. The cranial nerves and their responsibilities include: 1  Olfactory: smell. Arteries and Nerves. Due to all of the critical functions controlled by the brain, the head houses major nerves and requires a substantial amount of blood flow.
Confidence votes 49. arteries are blood vessels that are part of the system carrying blood under pressure from the heart to the rest of the body-OR-Arteries are blood vessels that carry oxygenated blood out to the body/lungs. 
artery. a vessel through which the blood passes away from the heart to the various parts of the body. The wall of an artery consists typically of an outer coat (tunica adventitia), a middle coat (tunica media), and an inner coat (tunica intima). For named arteries of the body, see Table 9. 