Definition. The collection of data from surveys, or from independent or networked locations via data capture, data entry, or data logging. 
IBM Cognos. MicroStrategy. vs. SAP Business Objects. Data collection is a systematic approach to gathering information from a variety of sources to get a complete and accurate picture of an area of interest. Download 9 FREE Strategic Planning Templates that your Peers Already Use. 
data collection (ˈdeɪtə kəˈlɛkʃən). 1  the process of gathering information or data ⇒ ■ The collection and analysis of commercial and domestic rubbish is a well-practised method of data collection. 
data collection, (in research) the phase of a study that includes the gathering of information and identification of sampling units as directed by the research design. Data collection precedes data analysis. In the context of clinical research, the accessing and recording information that provides source data for analysis and interpretation. 
Usage. In Latin, data is the plural of datum and, historically and in specialized scientific fields, it is also treated as a plural in English, taking a plural verb, as in the data were collected and classified. 
col•lec•tion. 1. the act of collecting. 2. something that is collected, as a group of objects or an amount of material accumulated in one place: a stamp collection; a collection of rainwater. 3. the works of art, specimens, or other items collected for exhibit and study in a museum, and kept as part of its holdings. 
Data collection. Data collection is defined as the ongoing systematic collection, analysis, and interpretation of health data necessary for designing, implementing, and evaluating public health prevention programs. To develop effective prevention strategies, countries need to improve their information. 
Data collection. Data collection. systematic gathering of data for a particular purpose from various sources, including questionnaires, interviews, observation, existing records, and electronic devices. The process is usually preliminary to statistical analysis of the data. 
collection. (Accumulation), noun accession, acervation, acervus, acquisition, addition, aggregate, aggregation, amassment, amount accrued, compilation, concentration, congestus, conglomerate, convergence, cumulation, group, growth by addition, heap, hoard, mass, obtainment, pile, stockpile, store. 
Data Collection Methods. The purpose of this page is to describe important data collection methods used in Research .. Data Collection is an important aspect of any type of research study. Inaccurate data collection can impact the results of a study and ultimately lead to invalid results. Data collection methods for impact evaluation vary along a continuum.