The Crossfire is actually a rebadged Mercedes. It was made in Germany by Mercedes with 0% American parts. So its not really that relevent how bad/good Chrysler is in this situation. But since you asked... Chrysler is the most horrible god-awful disgrace of a motor vehicle manufacturer to cross this earth since the car was invented way back in the 1800s.
In North America, the Chrysler brand offered primarily upscale and luxury cars have been while other markets the Chrysler name was used on several corporate models. 
Chrysler (/ˈkraɪslər/), officially FCA US LLC, is an American automobile manufacturer headquartered in Auburn Hills, Michigan and owned by holding company Fiat Chrysler Automobiles, headquartered in London, U.K. Chrysler is one of the . Big Three  American automobile manufacturers. In 1998, Chrysler merged with German automaker Daimler-Benz AG to form DaimlerChrysler; the merger proved contentious with investors and Chrysler was sold to Cerberus Capital Management and renamed Chrysler LLC in 2007.
Even Fiat, a brand which has struggled to catch traction in the U.S. since its launch three years ago, managed to have its best sales month ever last month. While sales have been great for Chrysler Group, things haven’t been nearly as good for the Chrysler brand. Over the past few years there has been a significant reduction in the number of models offered by Chrysler brand. Chrysler Group’s sales have been on fire for over 4 years now, with May marking the automaker’s 50 th consecutive month of year-over-year sales growth. Much of Chrysler Group’s success can be attributed toward the continued success of Jeep and Ram brands.
* 9 months U.S. and 9 months Canada. See the Chrysler brand compared with all other brands in monthly Auto Sales By Brand posts on GoodCarBadCar.net. Here you will find monthly and yearly Canadian and U.S. sales figures for the Chrysler brand. Use the dropdown at the top right of this page or at GCBC's Sales Stats home to find sales figures for any other brand or any specific vehicle currently on sale in North America.
Read more. The New 2015 Chrysler 300: a car made for the kings and queens of America. Drive Proud. Since the company was founded in 1925, the Chrysler brand has continued to delight customers with its distinctive designs, craftsmanship and intuitively innovative technology – all at an extraordinary value. 
By 1961, Chrysler had trimmed its line of brands by dropping the DeSoto nameplate. New technologies were also afoot, such as unibody construction (Chrysler was the first of the Big Three to introduce it) and the replacement of generators with alternators for a car's charging system. Less than a decade later, that merger was no longer, as Daimler sold Chrysler (and Dodge) to a private equity firm in 2007. However, that merger had borne some worthwhile fruit, most notably in the form of the Chrysler 300 full-size sedan.
Chrysler CEO Lee Iacocca wanted the Jeep brand, particularly the Jeep Grand Cherokee (ZJ) that was under development, the world-class, brand-new manufacturing plant in Bramalea, Ontario, as well as AMC's engineering and management talent that became critical for Chrysler's future success. In 1998, Chrysler merged with German automaker Daimler-Benz AG to form DaimlerChrysler; the merger proved contentious with investors and Chrysler was sold to Cerberus Capital Management and renamed Chrysler LLC in 2007.
It sells vehicles worldwide under its flagship Chrysler brand, as well as the Dodge, Jeep and Ram. Other major divisions include Mopar, its automotive parts and accessories division, and SRT, its performance automobile division. In 2014, FCA US LLC is the seventh biggest automaker in the world by production. In 1998, Chrysler merged with German automaker Daimler-Benz AG to form DaimlerChrysler; the merger proved contentious with investors and Chrysler was sold to Cerberus Capital Management and renamed Chrysler LLC in 2007.