From the Isotopes section of Wikipedia's article on Technetium : Technetium, with atomic number (denoted Z) 43, is the lowest-numbered element in the periodic table that is exclusively radioactive. The second-lightest, exclusively radioactive element, promethium, has an atomic number of 61. 
One of these purposes is the Technetium-99m Generator.Technetium-99m, a man made element and a type of technetium isotope, has been used as a radioisotope since 1958. Since all isotopes of technetium are radioactive so is technetium-99m. The radioisotope is used to diagnose diseased organs. The injection of the technetium-99m isotope gives off a certain type of radiation which show doctors which areas of the organ is diseased without causing radiation damage to the patient. 
Technetium-99 is used as a gamma ray-free source of beta particles. Long-lived technetium isotopes produced commercially are by-products of fission of uranium-235 in nuclear reactors and are extracted from nuclear fuel rods. The most stable radioactive isotopes are technetium-98 with a half-life of 4.2 million years (Ma), technetium-97 (half-life: 2.6 Ma) and technetium-99 (half-life: 211,000 years). Thirty other radioisotopes have been characterized with mass numbers ranging from 85 to 118.
Technetium (/tɛkˈniːʃiəm/) is a chemical element with symbol Tc and atomic number 43. It is the element with the lowest atomic number in the periodic table that has no stable isotopes: every form of it is radioactive. Nearly all technetium is produced synthetically, and only minute amounts are found in nature. The most stable radioactive isotopes are technetium-98 with a half-life of 4.2 million years (Ma), technetium-97 (half-life: 2.6 Ma) and technetium-99 (half-life: 211,000 years). Thirty other radioisotopes have been characterized with mass numbers ranging from 85 to 118.
Technetium isotopes like the excited isotope technetium-99m are produced today because of their importance in nuclear medicine. About 80 per cent of the nuclear medicine procedures in the world use this isotope, and that's about 10 million procedures a year, says Weiner. 
Technetium-99m. Technetium -99m is a widely used radioactive tracer isotope in Nuclear Medicine. It's gamma ray energy of about 140 keV is convenient for detection. The fact that both its physical half-life and its biological half-life are very short leads to very fast clearing from the body after an imaging process
Uses of Technetium-99m. Technetium-99m (Tc-99m) is used in a wide range of medical applications, such as distinguishing brain tumours. Over 10,000 hospitals worldwide use radioisotopes in medicine, and about 90% of the procedures are for diagnosis. 
Technetium-99m is a metastable nuclear isomer of technetium-99 (itself an isotope of technetium), symbolized as 99m Tc, that is used in tens of millions of medical diagnostic procedures annually, making it the most commonly used medical radioisotope. Technetium-99m can be readily detected in the body by medical equipment because it emits 140.5 keV gamma rays (these are about the same wavelength as emitted by conventional X-ray diagnostic equipment), and its half-life for gamma emission is six hours (meaning 94% of it decays to 99 Tc in 24 hours).
All isotopes of technetium are radioactive.Technetium-99m is a metastable isotope of the element technetium. It's short half life means that it is not found in any abundance naturally and therefore it has to be produced in a nuclear reactor. 