This coincides with the average depth of the bottom of the euphotic zone, which means that the deep sea is also a dark sea. The average depth of the sea is around 4,000 m (almost 2.5 miles) and the deepest point in the Mariana Trench is about 11,000 m, so there is a lot of deep sea around the world! In fact, about 90 % of the world’s ocean is deep sea. Not having any sunlight doesn’t mean that animals living in the deep sea don’t rely on it. Plant and animal matter from the euphotic zone sinks through the water column and eventually reaches the deep sea. This organic matter is known as “marine snow”, and most deep-sea animals rely on it as a food source.
The epipelagic zone (0m-200m) is the area where light penetrates the water and photosynthesis occurs. This is also known as the photic zone. Because this typically extends only a few hundred meters below the water, the deep sea, about 90% of the ocean volume, is in darkness. The lanternfish is, by far, the most common deep-sea fish. Other deep sea fish include the flashlight fish, cookiecutter shark, bristlemouths, anglerfish, and viperfish.
Deep sea research is vital because this area is such an enormous part of the biosphere. Despite its depth and distance, it is still our backyard in comparison to outer space. The deep sea begins below about 200 m, where sunlight becomes inadequate for photosynthesis. From there to about 1,000 m, the mesopelagic or twilight zone, sunlight continues to decrease until it is gone altogether. This faint light is deep blue in color because all the other colors of light are absorbed at depth
The Zones of the Deep Sea. The ocean is a vast body of water that stretches from tropical waters to frigid polar regions, from shallow seas to deep ocean trenches. The oceans cover about 71 percent of Earth’s surface, and about 90 percent of that is considered deep water (below about 600 feet). 
Deep sea zones. The deep sea or deep layer is the lowest layer in the ocean, existing below the thermocline and above the seabed, at a depth of 1000 fathoms (1800 m) or more. Below the thermocline, the water mass of the deep ocean is cold and far more homogeneous. Thermoclines are strongest in the tropics, where the temperature of the epipelagic zone is usually above 20 °C.
All around the world the ocean is divided into broad horizontal layers, or “zones”. The uppermost zone is called the euphotic zone (“euphotic” means “well lit” in Greek), and in this zone enough sunlight can get through to allow phytoplankton (microscopic algae) and other plants to photosynthesise. In fact, about 90 % of the world’s ocean is deep sea. Not having any sunlight doesn’t mean that animals living in the deep sea don’t rely on it. Plant and animal matter from the euphotic zone sinks through the water column and eventually reaches the deep sea.
A deep-sea octopod wraps itself around a submersible’s robotic arm in the Gulf of Mexico. 2007 Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, All Rights Reserved. Deep below the ocean’s surface is a mysterious world that takes up 95% of Earth’s living space. It could hide 20 Washington Monuments stacked on top of each other. But the deep sea remains largely unexplored. Dive down 650 feet (one monument or 200 meters), and you notice that light starts fading rapidly. Dive deeper: the temperature drops and pressure rises. At 13,000 feet (20 monuments or 4,000 meters), the temperature hovers around freezing, and there’s no sunlight at all. Yet there is life -- an astounding variety of creatures that will boggle your mind. You can’t dive to the deep ocean on your own, of course.
Deep-sea fish are fish that live in the darkness below the sunlit surface waters, that is below the epipelagic or photic zone of the sea. The lanternfish is, by far, the most common deep-sea fish. Other deep sea fish include the flashlight fish, cookiecutter shark, bristlemouths, anglerfish, and viperfish.
The Deep Sea. Over 60% of our planet is covered by water more than a mile deep. The deep sea is the largest habitat on earth and is largely unexplored. More people have traveled into space than have traveled to the deep ocean realm.... The deep sea begins below about 200 m, where sunlight becomes inadequate for photosynthesis. From there to about 1,000 m, the mesopelagic or twilight zone, sunlight continues to decrease until it is gone altogether. This faint light is deep blue in color because all the other colors of light are absorbed at depth