Report Abuse. If you have DirecTv, there is an extended sports package that offers the YES Network. When you order this, not only will you get the games on the YES Network, you will get all of the pre and post game coverage, and you can watch it anytime you want like a normal channel. Best Answer: &nbsp Direct TV or DISH network have YES. petition your cable company to carry it (good luck). Get the MLB baseball package from your cable company which will carry the Yankee games since you are out of the NY market. Get the baseball package from mlb.com and watch on the internet
The network is also available nationally on DirecTV, U-Verse, FiOS and on select cable systems.*. To determine if YES Network is available in your area, please use the drop down menus provided below. 
i have that same problem with them..i live in sc,so i got directv and ordered mlb extra innings..you can get everyone of their games..and if you order the sports package with it you can get yes network anytim,but the sports pack does not include the games,you have to get mlb extra innings which is only $44.95. Best Answer: &nbsp Direct TV or DISH network have YES. petition your cable company to carry it (good luck). Get the MLB baseball package from your cable company which will carry the Yankee games since you are out of the NY market. Get the baseball package from mlb.com and watch on the internet
YES Network maintains a national feed available to select cable providers outside of the New York City market – including Time Warner Cable, Verizon FiOS (in certain markets) and Bright House Networks (on its systems in Tampa and Orlando). As a result, YES gained the streaming rights to carry a limited amount of game highlights on its website, in addition to post-game interviews. In 2007, Goldman Sachs' share in the network was put up for sale for estate taxes reasons. In November 2012, News Corporation agreed to terms on acquiring a 49% stake in YES.
YES2 is a gametime-only overflow feed of YES Network, which broadcasts select Nets games on rare occasions when the Nets and Yankees are scheduled to play at the same time. The feed is carried in both standard and high definition on most cable providers in the New York metropolitan area and nationwide on DirecTV. As a result, YES gained the streaming rights to carry a limited amount of game highlights on its website, in addition to post-game interviews. In 2007, Goldman Sachs' share in the network was put up for sale for estate taxes reasons. In November 2012, News Corporation agreed to terms on acquiring a 49% stake in YES.
If you receive YES Network as your local RSN, unfortunately these games will not be available.”. 3:45 p.m.: YES just came out with the following (meaningless) statement: “We are negotiating in good faith with DirecTV in hopes of resolving this matter quickly.”. I’ve had Direct for over three years but losing the YES network could make me change to Dish. says: March 31, 2011 at 1:32 pm. In my 14 years as a DirecTV subscriber, I’ve rarely seen the company take a hard-line stance, with the one notable exception of Versus in 2009.
YES Network borrowed time on Cablevision's iO TV 1300 service and on DirecTV to carry the first baseball game ever transmitted in 3D on July 10 and 11, 2010, when the Yankees faced the Seattle Mariners; the 3D telecast of the game was also distributed to other cable providers. As a result, YES gained the streaming rights to carry a limited amount of game highlights on its website, in addition to post-game interviews. In 2007, Goldman Sachs' share in the network was put up for sale for estate taxes reasons. In November 2012, News Corporation agreed to terms on acquiring a 49% stake in YES.
YES Network's offices are based at the Chrysler Building in Midtown Manhattan. YES programs, including Yankees and Nets pre-and post-game shows, are produced in studios that are located in Stamford, Connecticut. As a result, YES gained the streaming rights to carry a limited amount of game highlights on its website, in addition to post-game interviews. In 2007, Goldman Sachs' share in the network was put up for sale for estate taxes reasons. In November 2012, News Corporation agreed to terms on acquiring a 49% stake in YES.
The DirecTV message further stated, “If YES Network goes dark, MLB Extra Innings and NBA League Pass customers will continue to see Yankees and Nets games but will not have access to the YES Network feed. In most instances DirecTV will provide the opposing team’s feed for these packages. I’ve had Direct for over three years but losing the YES network could make me change to Dish. says: March 31, 2011 at 1:32 pm. In my 14 years as a DirecTV subscriber, I’ve rarely seen the company take a hard-line stance, with the one notable exception of Versus in 2009.