Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a long lasting autoimmune disorder that primarily affects joints. It typically results in warm, swollen, and painful joints. Pain and stiffness often worsen following rest. Most commonly the wrist and hands are involved with typically the same joints involved on both sides of the body. 
The incidence of rheumatoid arthritis is predicted by rheumatoid factor titer in a longitudinal population study. del Puente A(1), Knowler WC, Pettitt DJ, Bennett PH. Author information: (1)National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases, Phoenix, Arizona 85014. 
Description: The Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) Factor test may be used to assist in the diagnosis of Rheumatoid Arthritis or Sjogren Syndrome. Rheumatoid Factor is an auto-antibody that attack the body's own tissues. The RA factor test is useful in distinguishing Rheumatoid Arthritis or Sjogren Syndrome from other types of arthritis. Turnaround time for the Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) Factor test is typically 1-2 business days.
The results of the rheumatoid factor (RF) test may be reported in titers or units: 1  A titer is a measure of how much the blood sample can be diluted before RF can no longer be detected. 2  Nephelometry units show how much light is blocked by the blood sample in the tube. 
1 A rheumatoid factor more than 23 units and a titer more than 1:80 is indicative of rheumatoid arthritis but may also occur in other conditions. 2  False positive results can occur when the blood is high in fats. 3  Inaccurate results can be caused by improper handling of the blood specimen. This test is most often used to diagnose rheumatoid arthritis. About 80% of patients with rheumatoid arthritis have positive RF tests. It may also be used to rule out or diagnose other inflammation-related conditions. Normal values depend on what method the laboratory uses to detect and measure the RF.
Arthritis means joint inflammation. The joint inflammation of rheumatoid arthritis causes swelling, pain, stiffness, and redness in the joints. The inflammation of rheumatoid disease can also occur in tissues around the joints, such as the tendons, ligaments, and muscles. Rheumatoid arthritis (RA or atrophic arthritis) facts. 1  Rheumatoid arthritis is an autoimmune disease that can cause chronic inflammation of the joints and other areas of the body. 2  Rheumatoid arthritis symptoms and signs include. 3  joint pain in the feet, hands, and knees, 4  swollen joints, 5  fever, 6  tender joints,
In patients with rheumatoid arthritis, the RF titer generally correlates with extra-articular manifestations and disease severity. RF testing may have prognostic value in these patients. However, RF titers are not helpful in following disease progression. 
Interpretation. Rheumatoid factor (RF) is used in the diagnosis of rheumatoid arthritis (RA). RF results are positive in approximately 75% of patients with RA, although RF is not etiologically related to RA. High RF titers indicate a poorer prognosis, as patients with higher RF levels tend to have more severe disease. 