Sloths are extremely slow-moving mammals found in the rainforest canopies of Central and South America. There are two species of sloths:two-toed and three-toed. Most sloths are about the size of a small dog and they have short, flat flat heads. Their hair is grayish brown but, at times they look grey-green in color because they move so slowly that tiny camouflaging algae grow all over their coats.
Sloths mate and give birth while hanging in the trees. Three-toed sloth babies are often seen clinging to their mothers—they travel by hanging on to them for the first nine months of their lives. On land, sloths' weak hind legs provide no power and their long claws are a hindrance.
Linne's Two-Toed Sloth. These slow-moving mammals spend their days lounging in the canopy of our Upland Tropical Rain Forest exhibit, often enjoying their favorite activity: sleeping. Nocturnal by nature, sloths are more active at night—but not for long!
Introduction to Three-Toed Sloth. The Three-Toed Sloth is a mammal and there are four species that have been identified. They are very slow moving animals but they are more aggressive and able to protect themselves. They are very good swimmers and move faster in the water than they do in the trees or on land.
The sloth uses a behavioral adaptation and camouflage to survive in the rainforest. It moves very, very slowly and spends most of its time hanging upside down from trees. Blue-green algae grows on its fur giving the sloth a greenish color and making it more difficult for predators to spot.
The sloth is the world's slowest mammal, so sedentary that algae grows on its furry coat. The plant gives it a greenish tint that is useful camouflage in the trees of its Central and South American rain forest home. Sloths are identified by the number of long, prominent claws that they have on each front foot. There are both two-toed and three-toed sloths. All sloths are built for life in the treetops. They spend nearly all of their time aloft, hanging from branches with a powerful grip aided by their long claws.