Human  Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) is the name of the virus that causes  AIDS. The common cold i … s usually caused by the rhinovirus (up to  40% of colds), or Coronaviruses (about 20%), but there are more  than 200 viruses that can cause the common cold. swine flu is not a pathogen or causes the pathogen it is caused by a pathogen a pathogen is a micro organism that causes diseases such as bacteria or viruses etc and the patho … gen of swine flu is virus H1N1 pandemic.
Other Causes of the Common Cold. About 10% to 15% of adult colds are caused by viruses also responsible for other, more severe respiratory illnesses. The causes of 20%-30% of adult colds, presumed to be viral, remain unidentified. The same viruses that produce colds in adults appear to cause colds in children.
Symptoms of a Common Cold  The symptoms involved most often are cough, sore throat, runny  nose, sneezing, fatigue, and low grade fever (if over 101F in  adults, this could … indicate the flu or another cause of fever  instead of a cold).    A more comprehensive answer:     A sore throat. The common cold goes through the lytic cycle, and the symptoms you get from the cold are-headaches, muscle aches, sore throat and lose of appitite. The cold virus is spred person-to-person-sneezing, couging, shaking hands after coughing on them.
The common cold (also known as nasopharyngitis, rhinopharyngitis, acute coryza, head cold, or simply a cold) is a viral infectious disease of the upper respiratory tract which primarily affects the nose. The common cold may occasionally lead to pneumonia, either viral pneumonia or secondary bacterial pneumonia. No cure for the common cold exists, but the symptoms can be treated.
However, there are two types of viruses that are primarily responsible for inducing common cold symptoms (chills, runny nose, sneezing, sore throat, cough with or without mild fever, etc.) - Rhinoviruses and Coronaviruses. Common cold has less to do with the cold season itself and more to do with the common cold causing viruses, though these viruses do show a penchant for cooler and more temperate climates, when they spread most.
While the common cold may be caused by over 200 distinct and continually evolving viral pathogens; rhinoviruses, coronaviruses and respiratory syncytial viruses appear to be some of the most common (Turner 2009; Nussenbaum 2010; Worrall 2011; CDC 2012C). In fact, many of the symptoms associated with the common cold are a result of inflammation caused by this immune response, rather than by the virus itself (Turner 2009; Turner 2011; Hayden 2011; Pappas 2009).
Many viruses: The common cold is caused by a variety of respiratory viruses, including rhinovirus, coronavirus, and adenovirus, just to name a few. 10. Get help from a doctor now ›. Rarely....: The most common cause of common colds is rhinovirus a virus not know to cause myocarditis. The common viral agents that can cause myocarditis like Cosackievirus esp. type B, Adenovirus, Influenza are less common causes of common cold. The risk of having a myocarditis after an infection with either of the latter viruses is quite rare. Hit or miss
The common cold is a viral infectious disease that infects the upper respiratory system. It is also known as acute viral rhinopharyngitis, or acute coryza. Being the most common infectious disease in humans, the cold is mainly caused by coronaviruses or rhinoviruses. The most common symptoms of a cold are: 1  Dry throat. 2  Sore throat. 3  Cough. 4  Mild fever. 5  Sneezing. 6  Hoarse voice. 7  Blocked nose. 8  Mild headache.
What is the common cold's pathogen. The common cold (also known as nasopharyngitis, rhinopharyngitis, acute coryza, or a cold) is a viral infectious disease of the upper respiratory tract which affects primarily the nose.