Report Abuse. Peanut butter is fine, if you only put a trace in the Kong-but it does contain a lot of fat. Don't pack the thing with it, ever... Keep in mind you can also soak your puppy's regular food, stuff the Kong with it, and then freeze it-that will keep him busy, and not change his diet. And be watchful as he grows that the Kong is big enough-they grow so fast! Rosalie · 7 years ago.
Best Answer: Yes, better yet buy a puppy Kong and put peanut butter in it an freeze it. Your puppy will most likely love it. The kong website has different recipes that you can use. A lot of dogs love it and it gives them something to do when their people are away from home. Dogs love peanut butter, and it's a relatively healthy treat for them. You can even make dog buiscuits for them out of it (you can probably do an online search for a recipe). I wouldn't give them pure butter, as it really wouldn't be very good for them.
Yes you can use peanut butter as a treat. It is a great use for giving pills of any kind to a dog too. Just make sure you don't give a lot and often unless he needs meds often. It is high in fats that kind put excess weight on your puppy. Butter is not a good idea. It is just unhealthy fats for your puppy. Dogs love peanut butter, and it's a relatively healthy treat for them. You can even make dog buiscuits for them out of it (you can probably do an online search for a recipe). I wouldn't give them pure butter, as it really wouldn't be very good for them.
You can also use it as an ingredient in your homemade recipes but make sure the other elements are also safe for your dog. As a reminder, dogs can’t have chocolate so combining it with peanut butter is something only you can enjoy. The creamy spread also provides them with lots of energy to play! Peanut butter is a classic example of a human food which is also well suited, in moderation of course, for feeding to your pet dog. After researching which type to purchase, you and your dog can both enjoy this great snack together.
Before stuffing your Kong with peanut butter, think about the size, weight and activity level of your dog. While peanut butter can be a good source of protein and vitamins for dogs, it is also fattening. If your dog is inactive or overweight, you may consider giving only small amounts. A small dog will need much less than a larger dog. If you want to fill a Kong completely with peanut butter, you probably will need a butter knife or long spoon to stuff it all the way inside the Kong. Consider putting a treat inside first so your dog will have another incentive to keep working.
Start Easy. If you have never introduced your dog to a Kong, start him easy. Put only a little bit of peanut butter in the large end so he easily can lick it out or put large treats sticking out of the end so he can pull them out. This will teach him the Kong is fun. If you want to fill a Kong completely with peanut butter, you probably will need a butter knife or long spoon to stuff it all the way inside the Kong. Consider putting a treat inside first so your dog will have another incentive to keep working.
If you have a small breed, 1 teaspoon of peanut butter in a given day is enough. For larger dogs, 1 tablespoon in a day will suffice. Don’t give them peanut butter every day. A few times a week is enough. The creamy spread also provides them with lots of energy to play! Peanut butter is a classic example of a human food which is also well suited, in moderation of course, for feeding to your pet dog. After researching which type to purchase, you and your dog can both enjoy this great snack together.
Answers. Peanuts are more of a bean than a nut. The peanut butter in the Kong is a well known technique widely accepted by well informed dog owners. With such a small dog, just don't over do it. Peanut butter is OK, but it is not the complete and balanced diet dogs need. Aster answered on 7/6/09. I have always given my dogs peanut butter. They even like the no salt kind, it is that yummy. I don't stuff the kong with it though. I smear a teaspoonful around the inside for my medium sized dogs. It is rich stuff. Sassy