Amoxicillin. Amoxicillin is a recommended treatment of Chlamydia infection during pregnancy by Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. However, it is not the best antibiotic for eradication of Chlamydia in other categories of people. Amoxicillin dosage: 500 mg orally 3 times a day for 7 days. However, not all antibiotics are effective. The antibiotics usually used are azithromycin and doxycycline. Persons with chlamydia should abstain from sexual intercourse until they and their sex partners have completed treatment, otherwise re-infection is possible.
Chlamydia in pregnancy Azithromycin or Amoxicillin 1 g orally in a single dose 500 mg orally TID x 7 days Erythromycin base 500 mg orally QID x 7 days or erythromycin base 250 mg orally QID x 14 days or EES 800 mg orally QID x 7 days or EES 400 mg orally QID x 14 days. Spectinomycin 3 2 g IM in a single dose or a single-dose cephalosporin regimen (ceftizoxime 500 mg IM or cefoxitin 2 g IM with 1 g probenecid orally or cefotaxime 500 mg IM) or azithromycin 2 g orally in a single dose.
Treatment options for uncomplicated urogenital infections include a single 1-g dose of azithromycin orally, or doxycycline at a dosage of 100 mg orally twice per day for seven days. The recommended treatment during pregnancy is erythromycin base or amoxicillin. If symptoms suggest recurrent or persistent urethritis, the CDC recommends treatment with 2 g metronidazole (Flagyl) orally in a single dose plus 500 mg erythromycin base orally four times per day for seven days, or 800 mg erythromycin ethylsuccinate orally four times per day for seven days.
Azithromycin are highly effective antibiotics often prescribed for chlamydia treatment. You can buy azithromycin online using the DrFelix online doctor and pharmacy service without having to see your doctor or visit a GUM clinic. Alternatively doxycycline is another antibiotic usually prescribed for chlamydia treatment. The difference being azithromycin is taken as a single dose and doxycycline has to be taken in two doses every day for a week to get rid of chlamydia. 
OR. Ofloxacin 300 mg orally twice a day for 7 days. A meta-analysis of 12 randomized clinical trials of azithromycin versus doxycycline for the treatment of genital chlamydial infection demonstrated that the treatments were equally efficacious, with microbial cure rates of 97% and 98%, respectively (284). Treatment. Treating infected patients prevents sexual transmission of the disease, and treating all sex partners of those testing positive for chlamydia can prevent reinfection of the index patient and infection of other partners.
Inhalational anthrax (post-exposure): Adults: 100 mg, of doxycycline, by mouth, twice-a-day for 60 days. Children: weighing less than 100 lb (45 kg); 1 mg/lb (2.2 mg/kg) of body weight, by mouth, twice-a day for 60 days. Children weighing 100 lb or more should receive the adult dose. Exceeding the recommended dosage may result in an increased incidence of side effects. Adults: The usual dose of oral doxycycline is 200 mg on the first day of treatment (administered 100 mg every 12 hours), followed by a maintenance dose of 100 mg daily.
Michael L. Rekart, MD, DTM&H, MHSc. In the 1998 Canadian Sexually Transmitted Disease (STD) Guidelines, azithromycin (1.0 gm orally as a single dose) replaced doxycycline (100 mg orally twice a day for 7 days) as treatment of choice for chlamydia infection. In a use-effectiveness study at seven public health clinics, doxycycline and azithromycin were equivalent for treating genital chlamydia infection and preventing recurrences. [3] Studies have shown chlamydia cure rates of 98% with 5 days of doxycycline therapy or 8 to 10 of the prescribed 14 doxycycline pills.
Erythromycin base or ethylsuccinate 50 mg/kg/day orally divided into 4 doses daily for 14 days*,†. † Data on use of other macrolides (e.g., azithromycin and clarithromycin) for the treatment of neonatal chlamydia infection are limited. Treatment. Treating infected patients prevents sexual transmission of the disease, and treating all sex partners of those testing positive for chlamydia can prevent reinfection of the index patient and infection of other partners.
Uncomplicated infections of the pharynx Ceftriaxone PLUS Azithromycin or Doxycycline 250 mg IM in a single dose 1 g orally in a single dose 100 mg orally BID x 7 days Although chlamydial coinfection of the pharynx is unusual, coinfection at genital sites sometimes occurs. Spectinomycin 3 2 g IM in a single dose or a single-dose cephalosporin regimen (ceftizoxime 500 mg IM or cefoxitin 2 g IM with 1 g probenecid orally or cefotaxime 500 mg IM) or azithromycin 2 g orally in a single dose.