Ativan Substitute. Ativan ® (lorazepam) is a prescription medication used for various conditions, such as anxiety, tension, and certain types of seizures. Although Ativan can be effective in treating these conditions, for some people it does not work or may cause side effects. Fortunately, there are several substitutes for Ativan. If Ativan is not working for you or if it is causing bothersome side effects, ask your healthcare provider about trying an Ativan substitute. (Click Anxiety Medications for a more in-depth look at alternatives to Ativan, such as antidepressants and anti-anxiety medications.
A: Lorazepam is a medication that is used to treat anxiety, sleep disorders, and seizures. It is in the family of medications called benzodiazepines which work by enhancing the effects of GABA, a chemical in the brain, causing a calming effect. A: Lorazepam is a medication that is used to treat anxiety. It belongs to a class of medications known as benzodiazepines which help to produce a calming effect by acting on the brain and nerves (central nervous system).
A: Ativan (lorazepam) is a benzodiazepine drug that acts as an anxiolytic (anti-anxiety drug), amnesic, sedative/hypnotic, anticonvulsant, and muscle relaxant. It's used for the short-term treatment of anxiety, insomnia, acute seizures, and sedation of hospitalized or aggressive patients. A: Lorazepam is a medication that is used to treat anxiety. It belongs to a class of medications known as benzodiazepines which help to produce a calming effect by acting on the brain and nerves (central nervous system).
Lorazepam liquid: Measure with a dosing spoon or oral syringe which you can get from your pharmacy. If you take the medication everyday (instead of as needed), use a calendar, pillbox, alarm clock, or cell phone alert to help you remember to take it. Benzodiazepines, such as lorazepam, are often used for short periods of time only. They may produce emotional and/or physical dependence (addiction) even when used as recommended. Only your healthcare provider can determine the length of treatment that is right for you.
A: Lorazepam (Ativan) is a benzodiazepine used for the management of anxiety disorders or for short-term relief of the symptoms of anxiety or anxiety which is associated with depressive symptoms. The most common side effects with lorazepam are drowsiness, sedation and respiratory depression (shallow breathing). A: Lorazepam is a medication that is used to treat anxiety. It belongs to a class of medications known as benzodiazepines which help to produce a calming effect by acting on the brain and nerves (central nervous system).
Pre-existing depression may emerge or worsen during use of benzodiazepines including lorazepam. Ativan (lorazepam) is not recommended for use in patients with a primary depressive disorder or psychosis. Use of benzodiazepines, including lorazepam, both used alone and in combination with other CNS depressants, may lead to potentially fatal respiratory depression. 
Uses. This medication is used to treat anxiety. Lorazepam belongs to a class of drugs known as benzodiazepines which act on the brain and nerves (central nervous system) to produce a calming effect. This drug works by enhancing the effects of a certain natural chemical in the body (GABA). Take this medication by mouth with or without food as directed by your doctor. The dosage is based on your medical condition, age, and response to treatment. If directed by your doctor, use this medication regularly in order to get the most benefit from it. To help you remember, use it at the same time(s) each day.
It is a nearly white powder almost insoluble in water. Each Ativan (lorazepam) tablet, to be taken orally, contains 0.5 mg, 1 mg, or 2 mg of lorazepam. The inactive ingredients present are lactose monohydrate, magnesium stearate, microcrystalline cellulose, and polacrilin potassium. 
When used recreationally or in any way other than as directed, Ativan can be bad for you. As a benzodiazepine Ativan can be addictive, requiring the use of rehab centers to aid in breaking the dependency developed on the drug. For help in locating a rehab center for Ativan near you, call us today at 1-800-943-0566. The lines are staffed 24 hours a day with knowledgeable staff. 
Lorazepam is used in the treatment of anxiety disorders. Lorazepam is also used for the short-term relief of the symptoms of anxiety or to relieve anxiety associated with depressive symptoms. Lorazepam is thought to work by affecting brain chemicals that lessen abnormal brain excitement. A: Lorazepam is a medication that is used to treat anxiety. It belongs to a class of medications known as benzodiazepines which help to produce a calming effect by acting on the brain and nerves (central nervous system).