A PTZ camera provides pan, tilt and zoom functions (using manual or automatic control), enabling wide area coverage and great details when zooming in. An Axis PTZ camera usually has the ability to pan 360°, tilt 180° or 220°, and is often equipped with a zoom lens. Some of the features that can be incorporated in a PTZ camera include: 1  3D privacy masking. 2  E-flip. 3  Preset positions/guard tour. 4  Tour recording. 5  Autotracking. 6  Advanced/Active Gatekeeper. 7  Electronic image stabilization (EIS).
A pan–tilt–zoom camera (PTZ camera) is a camera that is capable of remote directional and zoom control. In television production, PTZ controls are used with professional video cameras in television studios and referred to as camera robotics. These systems can be remotely controlled by automation systems. The PTZ controls are generally sold separately without the cameras.
On a conventional PTZ camera, when you pan and tilt you physically rotate the camera using electrical motors. The zoom is controlled by mechanically moving two lenses closer together or further apart dependent on whether you are zooming in or out with the effect that objects in view appear larger or smaller. Digital PTZ cameras don’t work in this manner. The camera will first capture a full image, usually in megapixel resolution. When a user decides to zoom in they are provided with a section of the overall picture. The pixels in this are then enlarged so that the cropped image is the same size as the original.
PTZ is an abbreviation for pan, tilt and zoom and reflects the movement options of the camera. Other types of cameras are ePTZ or virtual pan-tilt-zoom (VPTZ) where a high-resolution camera digitally zooms and pans into portions of the image, with no physical camera movement. In television production, PTZ controls are used with professional video cameras in television studios and referred to as camera robotics. These systems can be remotely controlled by automation systems. The PTZ controls are generally sold separately without the cameras.
July 8th, 2008 by Greg Innes. Pan-tilt-zoom (PTZ) is a name given to a type of IP camera where the user can control the movement and position of the lens from a remote location using controls on an Internet browser or software application. The benefits of having a pan-tilt-zoom camera in a security application are obvious. Having a camera which can be controlled from a remote location enables a user to cover a much larger area with a single camera.
Pan tilt zoom camera (PTZ Camera) is a closed-circuit television camera with remote directional and zoom control. PTZ cameras can pan (move left and right), tilt (move up and down), and zoom in or out. Additionally, PTZ domes can rotate 360 degrees and view an object directly below them. SHARE. 
1 E-flip. 2  When a PTZ camera is mounted on a ceiling and is used to follow a person in, for example, a retail store, there will be situations when a person will pass just under the camera. 3  When following through on the person, images would be seen upside down without the E-flip functionality. Some of the features that can be incorporated in a PTZ camera include: 1  3D privacy masking. 2  E-flip. 3  Preset positions/guard tour. 4  Tour recording. 5  Autotracking. 6  Advanced/Active Gatekeeper. 7  Electronic image stabilization (EIS).
Definition. PTZ stands for Pan, Zoom and Tilt. This refers to the capabilities of automated cameras and video recorders. Essentially, a PTZ camera is set in a particular place, but has the ability to turn, usually in a complete circle, tilt at different angles both up and down, and zoom in on particular objects. PTZ, or pan, tilt and zoom cameras can make a 360-degree sweep of the environment, change angles to look at objects both above and below the camera, and zoom in to give objects greater detail. These cameras are used most often in surveillance situations where remote viewers can track subjects.
PTZ cameras are controlled via remote computer systems. Users generally program the camera to move it in a set pattern, or control it manually with an interface that usually is manipulated with a keyboard. A user inputs commands, degrees of angle and rotation and the camera moves accordingly. PTZ, or pan, tilt and zoom cameras can make a 360-degree sweep of the environment, change angles to look at objects both above and below the camera, and zoom in to give objects greater detail. These cameras are used most often in surveillance situations where remote viewers can track subjects.