Edin /edin/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name (also used as girls' name Edin) is of Hebrew origin, and the meaning of Edin is fire; place of pleasure. Edin is a variant transcription of Edan (Scottish, Irish, Gaelic): version of Aidan. Edin is also a variation of Eden (Hebrew). (2000 U.S. Census). Below is a charted comparison of the usage of Edin and associated names. Eden (#601 a year ago) is the only popular varying form of Edin (unlisted) listed in the Top 1000. Adoption of this boy name is at its highest today (usage of 0.399%). Eden (#601) is the most chic baby name here.
Look up Eden in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. Eden (Hebrew: עֵדֶן) as a given name, has several derivations, from the Biblical Garden of Eden, meaning 'delight'; It is given to both boys and girls. The first recorded use is from ancient Israel in the book of II Chronicles. It is also as a variant of the girl's name Edith and the boy's name Aidan. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Eden (Hebrew: עֵדֶן) as a given name, has several derivations, from the Biblical Garden of Eden, meaning 'delight'; It is given to both boys and girls.
Hebrew Meaning: The name Edin is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Edin is: Delight. SoulUrge Number: 5. Expression Number: 5. People with this name have a deep inner desire for travel and adventure, and want to set their own pace in life without being governed by tradition.
List of Hebrew baby names, Hebrew baby boy names (male), girl names (female) & Hebrew names meanings has been compiled from various resources. Please use this list of Hebrew baby names only for reference/idea to name your kid/child. Database of baby names has been compiled from various references and suggestions provided by our web site visitors and resources partners. Meaning of Edin in Hebrew origin/culture for Boy name with history and fame details. 
Eden /eden/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name (also used less widely as boys' name Eden) is pronounced EED'n. It is of Hebrew origin, and the meaning of Eden is place of pleasure. Also sometimes used as a pet form of Edith. Biblical: the name of God's garden paradise for Adam and Eve. Eden is a very popular first name for females (#1878 out of 4276, Top 44%) and also a very popular last name for both adults and children (#4597 out of 150436, Top 3%). (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the baby name popularity of Eden for girls.
Edin is an uncommon first name for men but a very popular last name for both adults and children (#49965 out of 150436, Top 33%). (2000 U.S. Census). Below is a charted comparison of the usage of Edin and associated names. Eden (#601 a year ago) is the only popular varying form of Edin (unlisted) listed in the Top 1000. Adoption of this boy name is at its highest today (usage of 0.399%). Eden (#601) is the most chic baby name here.
List of Hebrew baby names, Hebrew baby boy names (male), girl names (female) & Hebrew names meanings has been compiled from various resources. Please use this list of Hebrew baby names only for reference/idea to name your kid/child. 
In Hebrew, the name Edin means-Variant of Eden: Delight.. Other origins for the name Edin include-Hebrew, Israeli.The name Edin is most often used as a boy name or male name. Hebrew Name Meaning-Variant of Eden: Delight. Origin-Hebrew. Alternate Origins-Israeli