1 If you find that you've gotten into poison ivy, grab a handful of jewelweed leaves, flowers or stems, crush them, and rub them on your skin to release the juice. 2  Aloe vera gel can be squeezed from the plant of the same name or purchased in health food stores and drugstores. 3  Aloe soothes and seems to promote healing.
1 Jewelweed (also known as touch-me-not) is common in the eastern U.S. and has long been used to ward off rashes. 2  If you find that you've gotten into poison ivy, grab a handful of jewelweed leaves, flowers or stems, crush them, and rub them on your skin to release the juice.
Jewelweed is commonly know for effectiveness in treating poison ivy, poison oak and poison sumac. It also alleviates other skin irritations. Many crafters use jewelweed in soaps and other home remedy / herbal remedy products. The showy flowers are orange. There is a related plant, impatiens pallida, with yellow flowers.
You can make a poison ivy remedy from jewelweed by: 1  crushing a stalk and rubbing the juice on the poison ivy rash. 2  chopping the stalks and leaves, boiling them water for 5-10 minutes, straining the liquid and freezing it in ice cube trays. 3  making a soap. 4  infusing the stalk and leaves in witch hazel. 5  making a salve.
Some naturalists use the liquid of jewelweed (Impatiens capensis) to treat an affected area of the body. You can find jewelweed sometimes growing near to where poison ivy is growing. Gather jewelweed leaves, not the flowers, and boil them to make a tea.
You can make a poison ivy remedy from jewelweed by: 1  crushing a stalk and rubbing the juice on the poison ivy rash. 2  This offers immediate but short-term relief. 3  chopping the stalks and leaves, boiling them water for 5-10 minutes, straining the liquid and freezing it in ice cube trays.
The juice of jewelweed is a traditional remedy for all sorts of skin ailments including poison ivy. An oft-repeated folk saying, Wherever poison ivy is found, jewelweed grows close by. To use it, you can simply crush the leaves and rub it on the itchy places. Jewelweed has enjoyed a popular place in home remedies for centuries.