A triglyceride (TG, triacylglycerol, TAG, or triacylglyceride) is an ester derived from glycerol and three fatty acids. As a blood lipid, it helps enable the bidirectional transference of adipose fat and blood glucose from the liver. Triglycerides are formed by combining glycerol with three fatty acid molecules. Alcohols have a hydroxyl (HO-) group. Organic acids have a carboxyl (-COOH) group. Alcohols and organic acids join to form esters. The glycerol molecule has three hydroxyl (HO-) groups.
Triglycerides are a type of fat found in your blood. Your body uses them for energy. You need some triglycerides for good health. But high triglycerides might raise your risk of heart disease and may be a sign of metabolic syndrome. Metabolic syndrome is the combination of high blood pressure, high blood sugar, too much fat around the waist, low HDL (good) cholesterol, and high triglycerides. Metabolic syndrome increases your risk for heart disease, diabetes, and stroke.
Lipid profile (cholesterol and triglycerides). Also known as: Cholesterol test, Triglycerides test. Cholesterol and triglyceride tests are blood tests that measure the total amount of fatty substances (cholesterol and triglycerides) in the blood. Cholesterol travels through the blood attached to a protein. This cholesterol-protein package is called a lipoprotein. A high VLDL cholesterol level can cause the buildup of cholesterol in your arteries and increases your risk of heart disease and stroke. Triglycerides are a type of fat the body uses to store energy and give energy to muscles.
Triglycerides are an important measure of heart health. Here's why triglycerides matter — and what to do if your triglycerides are too high. If you've been keeping an eye on your blood pressure and cholesterol levels, there's something else you might need to monitor: your triglycerides. Your doctor will usually check for high triglycerides as part of a cholesterol test (sometimes called a lipid panel or lipid profile). You'll have to fast for nine to 12 hours before blood can be drawn for an accurate triglyceride measurement.
How to Lower Triglycerides. Triglycerides are a type of fat found in the blood. High levels of triglycerides may raise the risk of coronary artery disease, especially in women. A person's triglyceride levels are measured with a blood test along with testing cholesterol levels in the blood. Normal triglycerides are below 150. 1 The triglyceride test measures the level of triglycerides in the blood. 2  Fasting for 9 to 12 hours before the triglyceride test is required. 3  Elevated triglyceride levels may be a risk factor for atherosclerosis. 4  Highly elevated triglyceride levels may also cause fatty liver disease and pancreatitis.
Hypertriglyceridemia denotes high (hyper-) blood levels (-emia) of triglycerides, the most abundant fatty molecule in most organisms. Elevated levels of triglycerides are associated with atherosclerosis, even in the absence of hypercholesterolemia (high cholesterol levels), and predispose to cardiovascular disease. 
Triglycerides are the most common form of fat in the body and the most common that we digest. They are the main ingredient in vegetable oils and animal fats. The triglyceride molecule is a form of the chemical glycerol (tri=three molecules of fatty acid + glyceride=glycerol) that contains three fatty acids. To be absorbed, these parts are broken apart in the small intestine, and afterwards are reassembled with cholesterol to form chylomicrons. 1 The triglyceride test measures the level of triglycerides in the blood. 2  Fasting for 9 to 12 hours before the triglyceride test is required. 3  Elevated triglyceride levels may be a risk factor for atherosclerosis. 4  Highly elevated triglyceride levels may also cause fatty liver disease and pancreatitis.
Triglycerides are a type of fat (lipid) found in your blood. When you eat, your body converts any calories it doesn't need to use right away into triglycerides. The triglycerides are stored in your fat cells. Later, hormones release triglycerides for energy between meals. Your doctor will usually check for high triglycerides as part of a cholesterol test (sometimes called a lipid panel or lipid profile). You'll have to fast for nine to 12 hours before blood can be drawn for an accurate triglyceride measurement.
Triglycerides are fats in your blood that the body uses for energy. A normal triglyceride level is 150 milligrams per deciliter or less, and this number increases rapidly if you consume large amounts of fatty foods. Your body retains excess triglycerides and stores them in your fat cells. 
Triglycerides: The major form of fat stored by the body. A triglyceride consists of three molecules of fatty acid combined with a molecule of the alcohol glycerol. Triglycerides serve as the backbone of many types of lipids (fats). Triglycerides come from the food we eat as well as from being produced by the body. Triglyceride levels are influenced by recent fat and alcohol intake, and should be measured after fasting for at least 12 hours.