Thomas Jefferson, drawing on the current thinking of his time, used natural rights ideas to justify declaring independence from England. Thomas Jefferson, age 33, arrived in Philadelphia on June 20, 1775, as a Virginia delegate to the Second Continental Congress. On July 2, 1776, the Continental Congress voted to declare the independence of the American colonies from English rule. On the Fourth of July, they approved the final edited version of the Declaration of Independence.
(Answer #2). The Declaration of Independence was the document that freed the colonies from Britain. It consists of the preamble, which explains that the colonies will be separating from Britain, the Indictment, explaining why America wanted to be independent, and the Denunciation, basically just a wrap up. The first section is generally called the Preamble. This paragraph (it is actually just one very long sentence) gives the purpose of the Declaration. It says that the colonies are planning to separate themselves from Britain and that they owe it to the world to explain why they are going to do that.
The Declaration of Independence, 1776. By issuing the Declaration of Independence, adopted by the Continental Congress on July 4, 1776, the 13 American colonies severed their political connections to Great Britain. The Declaration summarized the colonists’ motivations for seeking independence
The first section of the body of the Declaration gives evidence of the long train of abuses and usurpations heaped upon the colonists by King George III. The second section of the body states that the colonists had appealed in vain to their British brethren for a redress of their grievances. Answers. Best Answer: Basically, the Thirteen Colonies declared themselves independent of the Kingdom of Great Britain and explained their justifications for doing so. The introduction states that this document will declare the causes that have made it necessary for the American colonies to leave the British Empire
On June 8, 1776, the Continental Congress voted to write a declaration of independence. It named a committee to do the writing. One of its members was Thomas Jefferson, a lawyer from Virginia. He had been a leader in Virginia, and Virginia had elected him to the Continental Congress. The others on the committee were too busy with the revolution to work on the declaration, so Jefferson wrote it alone. He finished the document in a week
The Declaration of Independence, written by Thomas Jefferson and adopted by the Second Continental Congress, states the reasons the British colonies of North America sought independence in July of 1776. 
The Declaration of Independence is the founding document of American history. The Declaration of Independence is the founding document of American history. It has been included among one of the most important documents ever to be written in the history of the United States of America. A summary of the Declaration of Independence will always take something away from the true words written by Thomas Jefferson, but will give you an idea of what the declaration is about.
Thomas Jefferson's Draft of a Constitution for Virginia, predecessor of The Declaration Of Independence. Immediately on learning that the Virginia Convention had called for independence on May 15, 1776, Jefferson, a Virginia delegate to the Continental Congress, wrote at least three drafts of a Virginia constitution. Written in June 1776, Thomas Jefferson's draft of the Declaration of Independence, included eighty-six changes made later by John Adams (1735-1826), Benjamin Franklin 1706-1790), other members of the committee appointed to draft the document, and by Congress.