Normal Rainfall: 2”. Sunny mild days and clear brisk nights are the hallmarks of winter in Scottsdale. Spring (Feb. 16 – April 30). Average High/Low: 77°F (25°C) / 50°F (10°C). Normal Rainfall: 1.5”. Spring’s warm, sunny days are perfect for outdoor activities, from desert adventures to al fresco dining. Normal Rainfall: 2.25”. The desert’s wet summer contrasts high daytime temperatures and mild to moderate humidity with a chance of cooling afternoon thunderstorms drawn up from the Gulf of Mexico by monsoon winds.
Climate data for scottsdale muni ap, Longitude: -111.91, Latitude: 33.6228. Average weather Scottsdale, AZ - 85271 - 1981-2010 normals. Jan: January, Feb: February, Mar: March, Apr: April, May: May, Jun: June, Jul: July, Aug: August, Sep: September, Oct: October, Nov: November, Dec: December.
0.9. The highest average temperature in Scottsdale is July at 96.6 degrees. The coldest average temperature in Scottsdale is December at 54.2 degrees. The most monthly precipitation in Scottsdale occurs in August with 1.5 inches. The Scottsdale weather information is based on the average of the previous 3-7 years of data. Loading..
The Scottsdale, AZ air quality index is a median value which considers the most hazardous air pollutants. The Scottsdale, AZ air quality index is 31.5% greater than the Arizona average and 48.9% greater than the national average. The Scottsdale, AZ pollution index is the sum of the most hazardous air pollutants displayed in pounds. The highest average temperature in Scottsdale is July at 96.6 degrees. The coldest average temperature in Scottsdale is December at 54.2 degrees. The most monthly precipitation in Scottsdale occurs in August with 1.5 inches. The Scottsdale weather information is based on the average of the previous 3-7 years of data. Loading..
The Scottsdale, AZ air quality index is a median value which considers the most hazardous air pollutants. The Scottsdale, AZ air quality index is 31.5% greater than the Arizona average and 48.9% greater than the national average.
Most / Least Educated Cities in AZ. The average temperature of Scottsdale is 71.89°F, which is much higher than the Arizona average temperature of 65.97°F and is much higher than the national average temperature of 54.45°F. 
Scottsdale Temperatures: Averages by Month. The numbers here tell you how hot and cold the weather usually is in Scottsdale, Arizona during each month of the year. The average high and low temperatures are listed below by month and annually for the city, in both degrees Fahrenheit and Celsius. Maximums and minimums are only part of the temperature picture. To fill in the rest, there's information on how many days a month get above or below a given temperature. To find out how often it rises over 80, 90 or 100 °F each month in Scottsdale, scroll down farther. There are also monthly and yearly counts of days with cold weather
The highest average temperature in Scottsdale is July at 96.6 degrees. The coldest average temperature in Scottsdale is December at 54.2 degrees. The most monthly precipitation in Scottsdale occurs in August with 1.5 inches. The Scottsdale weather information is based on the average of the previous 3-7 years of data. Loading... The Scottsdale, AZ air quality index is 31.5% greater than the Arizona average and 48.9% greater than the national average.
This report describes the typical weather at the Scottsdale Municipal Airport (Scottsdale, Arizona, United States) weather station over the course of an average September. It is based on the historical records from 1988 to 2012. Earlier records are either unavailable or unreliable. Over the course of September typical wind speeds vary from 0 mph to 12 mph (calm to gentle breeze), rarely exceeding 18 mph (fresh breeze). The highest average wind speed of 5 mph (light breeze) occurs around September 1, at which time the average daily maximum wind speed is 12 mph (gentle breeze).