• DM (noun). The noun DM has 2 senses: 1. diabetes caused by a relative or absolute deficiency of insulin and characterized by polyuria. 2. a metric unit of length equal to one tenth of a meter. Familiarity information: DM used as a noun is rare. Dictionary entry details.
Please try again later. In this video tutorial I show you how to send a Direct Message with Instagram. The direct message in Instagram is a new feature and it allows you to send a photo to 1-15 people privately instead of all of your followers seeing it. Also, it will allow you to delete the message and remove it from where you sent it as well. This is a SnapChat feature in some ways. 
140-character Limit. One common characteristic of tweets and direct messages is both must adhere to Twitter's established character limit. As is the case with a tweet you send to your base of Twitter followers, direct messages you send to a specific user must be less than 140 characters in length. Restrictions. Just as your tweets are visible only to those users who've followed you, it's only possible to send direct messages to the same pool of users. If you click the profile of someone who follows you, you'll notice the option to send that user a direct message appears under his or her name. If, on the other hand, you navigate to the profile of someone who doesn't follow your tweets -- even if you follow this person -- this option won't appear
type 1a diabetes mellitus. The most common form of type 1 DM. It is caused by autoimmune destruction of the beta cells of the pancreas and inadequate insulin production. In type 1a DM, antibodies against insulin, islet cells of the pancreas, or glutamic acid decarboxylase is often present in the blood. DM results either from failure of the pancreas to produce insulin (type 1 DM) or from insulin resistance, with inadequate insulin secretion to sustain normal metabolism (type 2 DM). Either type of DM may damage blood vessels, nerves, kidneys, the retina, and the developing fetus and the placenta during pregnancy. Type 1 or insulin-dependent DM has a prevalence of just 0.3 to 0.4%. Type 2 DM (formerly called adult-onset DM) has a prevalence in the general population of 6.6%
Description. An acronym that is a variation of the more popular MD acronym, which is used as a title for doctors of medicine in the United States; commonly used in India to refer to the prestigious degrees earned by students in fields, such as Neurology, Gastroenterology, Cardiology, and Neuroanaesthesia. Example. 
DM arising in patients with cystic fibrosis (CF). It is the most common complication of CF other than those conditions that affect the lungs. It is caused by destruction of islet cells (the cells in the pancreas that make insulin) as well as a decrease in sensitivity of the liver and muscles to the actions of insulin. DM results either from failure of the pancreas to produce insulin (type 1 DM) or from insulin resistance, with inadequate insulin secretion to sustain normal metabolism (type 2 DM). Either type of DM may damage blood vessels, nerves, kidneys, the retina, and the developing fetus and the placenta during pregnancy. Type 1 or insulin-dependent DM has a prevalence of just 0.3 to 0.4%. Type 2 DM (formerly called adult-onset DM) has a prevalence in the general population of 6.6%
dm. Designated Marksman. military marksman role in a U.S. infantry squad. The DM's role is to supply rapid accurate fire on enemy targets at ranges up to 870 yds with a highly-accurate semi-automatic rifle equipped with a telescopic sight.
A. DM refers to one of the ingredients on the cough medicine. It stands for dextromethorphan, which is a cough suppressant often used to quiet a dry, annoying cough. This answer should not be considered medical advice... This answer should not be considered medical advice and should not take the place of a doctor’s visit. If you select Keep me signed in on this computer, you can stay signed in to WebMD.com on this computer for up to 2 weeks or until you sign out. This means that a cookie will stay on your computer even when you exit or close your browser which may reduce your levels of privacy and security.