The same goes for vacant land — you’re responsible for any happenings on your land. Land insurance is a type of liability coverage, and although it’s not required by law to carry land insurance, it’s a good idea to consider it. Granted, you don’t need it as badly as auto or homeowners insurance, and your need largely depends on how it’s used. If you own vacant land at all though, analyze your risks to see if benefits outweigh the cost.
Vacant land insurance covers your vacant land separately from your homeowner's policy. These policies are frequently liability-only policies that will pay to defend you if you're sued by anyone that is injured on your land and will pay if you lose the suit. At first glance, you might think that vacant land doesn't need to be insured. If it's truly vacant, there are no buildings, you don't have any property on it and there aren't any people living there. That eliminates most of what you'd buy insurance for, but it doesn't eliminate everything.
If you’re a homeowner, you probably know that your homeowners insurance doesn’t cover land. That’s often what causes the difference in final replacement cost value insurers calculate versus tax appraised values of homes, appraisals, or selling prices of homes. Granted, you don’t need it as badly as auto or homeowners insurance, and your need largely depends on how it’s used. If you own vacant land at all though, analyze your risks to see if benefits outweigh the cost.
Vacant land insurance generally does not cover any building or damages to your property. If you were to have a vacant home that you wanted to rent out or something of that nature, you will be able to protect that property. It is usually as easy as extending your homeowners policy. Liability insurance for your vacant land can usually be extended from your homeowners insurance or farm policy. In some cases you may need an umbrella policy which can be priced relatively low compared to your actual homeowners liability insurance.
Instructions. Add vacant land to the liability coverage of your homeowner’s policy as the easiest way of insuring a vacant property. An insurance agent can easily upgrade your policy to include the vacant land. This is the most inexpensive method of insuring the asset and protecting your other assets from liability
Upgrade your personal excess liability policy, also referred to as an umbrella policy, to include the vacant land as a second option for insuring the property. Purchase a separate policy that can encompass several hundred acres of vacant land if you do not own a home or have an umbrella policy. Add vacant land to the liability coverage of your homeowner’s policy as the easiest way of insuring a vacant property. An insurance agent can easily upgrade your policy to include the vacant land.
Explanation. A liability insurance policy protects owners of vacant land against civil lawsuits that could potentially be brought against them. Liability insurance covers claims of bodily injury that occur on the vacant lot. Without a liability insurance policy, a bodily injury lawsuit could bleed your company's bank account dry by the time you are done paying attorney bills. Businesses. Some types of businesses that may want to consider liability insurance on a vacant lot are landlords and real estate investors who own property that has not been developed.
Who We Are: Vacant Home Insurance Now is a provider of insurance policies for vacant homes, buildings, and properties. We are the premiere source for vacant home insurance policies. Not all insurance companies want to insure vacant homes -- but we do. We are able to offer comprehensive and specialized vacant home insurance coverage for your unique needs.
If you own a vacant lot, you have to decide if you should buy liability insurance to protect you if someone trips or falls on the land. You should if you allow people on the property and you're worried about someone getting hurt. Benefits of Insurance. Trespassers may not have any legal right to be on your property, but if they're hurt on your land they can still sue you. If you don't have insurance, you'll need to pay for your own attorney. General liability policies cover that fee if you're sued for something the insurance covers.