DenuvoDRM is finally cracked by 3DM ! DenuvoDRM is finally cracked by 3DM ! This is what they said : “After 15 Days of our continuous effort, we finally solved the issue with DenuvoDRM, so the game ‘FIFA 15’, ‘Dragon Age: Inquisition’ and ‘Lords of the Fallen’ will be probably released in the near future by us. I will check it when the official patch out. But i think our crack will be working only with the update files i upload. More than 30,000 people send us the cpu data,and we are still adding more cpu compatibility to our crack. It will take several days.So i think we will release our fisrt crack for DA:I this weekend.
Denuvo Anti-Tamper, or Denuvo, is an anti-tamper technology developed by Denuvo Software Solutions GmbH, a company formed through the management buyout (MBO) of Sony DADC DigitalWorks. Denuvo Software Solutions has stated that the technology does not continuously encrypt and decrypt any data on storage media. To do so would be of no benefit in terms of security or performance..
3DM has reported that it’s been able to crack the latest DRM system, Denuvo, that was used in FIFA 15, Lords of the Fallen and Dragon Age: Inquisition.Denuvo has been a great DRM system as it was able to protect FIFA 15 for two months and Lords of the Fallen for one whole month. Welp... 
Denuvo has been a great DRM system as it was able to protect FIFA 15 for two months and Lords of the Fallen for one whole month. And since Dragon Age: Inquisition – Bioware’s highly anticipated RPG – has been released with this DRM, As always, we do not allow links so there is really no reason at all attempting to share one – your comments will be deleted. Denuvo reminded us of Starforce; another DRM system that took crackers a while to crack. Some users also claimed that Denuvo was responsible for damaging their SSDs, while others claimed that Lords of the Fallen’s performance issues were due to this particular DRM system.
The crack does not remove the Denuvo DRM from your PC. The information proved to be accurate and Dragon Age: Inquisition, one of the few games protected with Denuvo DRM, has been cracked and put online for everyone to get it for free. So, while Denuvo hasn't been finally beaten for good, it looks like a huge step into that direction has just been made less than 2 months since its release. Many P2P groups are now focusing their attention on cracking Denuvo, so it's just a matter of time until everything returns to normal. Remember, however, that buying games is the only way to support developers
P2P group 3DM has yet to come out with an official statement on how they managed to crack the DRM, but according to speculations Denuvo is not so easy to remove. So, while Denuvo hasn't been finally beaten for good, it looks like a huge step into that direction has just been made less than 2 months since its release. Many P2P groups are now focusing their attention on cracking Denuvo, so it's just a matter of time until everything returns to normal. Remember, however, that buying games is the only way to support developers
December 1, 2014 John Papadopoulos 336 Comments. 3DM has reported that it’s been able to crack the latest DRM system, Denuvo, that was used in FIFA 15, Lords of the Fallen and Dragon Age: Inquisition. As always, we do not allow links so there is really no reason at all attempting to share one – your comments will be deleted. Denuvo reminded us of Starforce; another DRM system that took crackers a while to crack. Some users also claimed that Denuvo was responsible for damaging their SSDs, while others claimed that Lords of the Fallen’s performance issues were due to this particular DRM system