Periods can last from 4 to 10 days. The average period lasts 7 days. You usually change every 4 hours but for heavy blood flow normally 3 hours, light blood flow 5 hours. RE: Girls...How long does a heavy period normally last? im 15 years old and normally my periods are light and last about 5 days... whats the minimal and maximum time that a period can last? what about when its a heavy period? im not keen on tampons..
For most women, periods usually occur from 21 to 35 days apart. In young girls and teenagers, periods are commonly irregular and have cycles ranging between 21 and 45 days. Keep track of your periods on a calendar (which can help you and your doctor determine what pattern is normal for you). 1  Previous. 2  Continue. 
The vagina, or birth canal, provides a path for menstrual fluids to leave the body. During a period, there are usually 2-3 days of relatively heavy bleeding followed by 2-4 days of lighter flow. The fluid during a menstrual period is a mixture of uterine lining tissue and blood. The total mo nthly menstrual loss varies from about 4 to 12 teaspoons. 
Most of the blood loss (about 90%) usually occurs in the first three days with either normal or heavy periods. Some medical definitions of blood loss during a period are: 1  A normal period is a blood loss between 20 and 60 ml (4-12 teaspoonfuls). 2  Bleeding can last up to eight days, but bleeding for five days is average. 3  A heavy period is a blood loss of 60-80 ml or more. 4  This is about half a teacupful or more.
It also prepares your body for pregnancy each month. A cycle is counted from the first day of 1 period to the first day of the next period. The average menstrual cycle is 28 days long. Cycles can range anywhere from 21 to 35 days in adults and from 21 to 45 days in young teens. The rise and fall of levels of hormones during the month control the menstrual cycle. But, anywhere from 2 to 7 days is normal. For the first few years after menstruation begins, longer cycles are common. A woman's cycle tends to shorten and become more regular with age. Most of the time, periods will be in the range of 21 to 35 days apart.
There is always a different amount of time between periods and always last for a different amount of time. Sometimes i can be on my period for 2 to 3 weeks others 1 week, they are never 5 days or less. The average menstrual cycle. On average, a woman's menstrual cycle lasts 28 days, but cycles can vary from 24 to 35 days. After puberty, most women develop a regular menstrual cycle, with around the same length of time between periods. Menstrual bleeding usually lasts two to seven days, with the average being five days.
Back to Top Considerations. The menstrual cycle is not the same for every woman. On average, menstrual flow occurs every 28 days (with most women having cycles between 24 and 34 days), and lasts about 4-7 days. However, there is a wide variation in timing and duration that is still considered normal, especially if your periods began within the last few years. 
A period is the part of the menstrual cycle when a woman bleeds from her vagina for a few days. In most women this happens every 28 days or so. It's common for women to have a cycle slightly shorter or longer than this (from 24 to 35 days). 
This Site Might Help You. RE: Girls...How long does a heavy period normally last? im 15 years old and normally my periods are light and last about 5 days... whats the minimal and maximum time that a period can last? what about when its a heavy period? im not keen on tampons..