• ABACUS (noun). The noun ABACUS has 2 senses: 1. a tablet placed horizontally on top of the capital of a column as an aid in supporting the architrave. 2. a calculator that performs arithmetic functions by manually sliding counters on rods or in grooves. Familiarity information: ABACUS used as a noun is rare. 
The abacus that we know today, with rows of wires along which slide beads, is an ancient object used by the Babylonians, Greeks, and Romans and is still found in many parts of the world. Example sentences. 1  An abacus with 5 beads per wire will do quite nicely. 2  Our eventual aim is to display the complete history of computing, from the abacus to the latest machines. 3  A young man sat against the wall doing calculation with an abacus and recording data onto paper.
1 A simple device for calculating, consisting of a frame with rows of wires or grooves along which beads are slid. Example sentences. 1  An abacus with 5 beads per wire will do quite nicely. 2  Our eventual aim is to display the complete history of computing, from the abacus to the latest machines. 3  A young man sat against the wall doing calculation with an abacus and recording data onto paper.
Full Definition of ABACUS. 1. : an instrument for performing calculations by sliding counters along rods or in grooves. 2. : a slab that forms the uppermost member or division of the capital of a column. See abacus defined for English-language learners. See abacus defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. Definition of ABACUS for Kids. : an instrument for doing arithmetic
The abacus (plural abaci or abacuses), also called a counting frame, is a calculating tool that was in use centuries before the adoption of the written modern numeral system and is still widely used by merchants, traders and clerks in Asia, Africa, and elsewhere. The earliest known written documentation of the Chinese abacus dates to the 2nd century BC. The Chinese abacus, known as the suanpan (算盤, lit. Counting tray, Mandarin suan suàn, Pan pán cantonese), syun3 pun4 is typically (20 cm) 8 in tall and comes in various widths depending on. the operator
Simple bevelled abacus (abaque) from the illustrated Dictionary of French Architecture (1865) (French). In architecture, an abacus (from the Greek abax, slab; or French abaque, tailloir; plural abacuses or abaci) is a flat slab forming the uppermost member or division of the capital of a column, above the bell. 
In his hand he bore that singular abacus, or staff of office, with which Templars are usually represented, having at the upper end a round plate, on which was engraved the cross of the Order, inscribed within a circle or orle, as heralds term it. 
Abacus (noun). a table or tray strewn with sand, anciently used for drawing, calculating, etc. Abacus (noun). a calculating table or frame; an instrument for performing arithmetical calculations by balls sliding on wires, or counters in grooves, the lowest line representing units, the second line, tens, etc. A tablet, panel, or compartment in ornamented or mosaic work. abacus (Noun). A board, tray, or table, divided into perforated compartments, for holding cups, bottles, or the like; a kind of cupboard, buffet, or sideboard.
noun. An example of an abacus used for arithmatic. An example of an abacus used for arithmatic. The definition of an abacus is a simple device you can use to make manual mathematical calculations by sliding counters along rows of wires set inside a frame. An example of an abacus is a child’s bead counting toy. The first known use of the word abacus in English, found in a Middle English work written before 1387, refers to a kind of sand-board abacus that was used according to techniques that European mathematicians adopted from the Muslim world. noun.
1 Ancient Abacus: The First Computer An abacus, sometimes called a counting frame, is an ancient calculation tool. 2  It consists on a bamboo or wood frame that hold several rods, in which balls or beads can slide …. 1 The Abacus Defined and Other Calculating Tools The word abacus derives from the Greek abax, and is defined in English as a manual counting tool made from a wooden frame strung together with wooden rods and movable count….