Nimesulide is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) developed by Helsinn Healthcare indicated for the treatment of acute pain and primary dysmenorrhoea.
It was launched in Italy for the first time as Aulin and Mesulid in 1985 and is available in more than 50 countries worldwide, including among others France, Portugal, Greece, Switzerland, Belgium, Russia, Thailand and Brazil.
Share. Latest prescription information about Nimesulide. Learn how to pronounce the drug's name, its indications, dosage, how to take, when to take, when not to take, side effects, special precautions, its storage instructions and warnings if any when taken during pregnancy.
Nimesulide is a relatively COX-2 selective, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) with analgesic and antipyretic properties. Its approved indications are the treatment of acute pain, the symptomatic treatment of osteoarthritis and primary dysmenorrhoea in adolescents and adults above 12 years old.
Daily dose is 100mg twice-a-day. The maximum duration of a treatment course is 15 days and, as for other NSAIDs, treatment should be as short as possible. Nimesulide is not indicated in children younger than 12.
OralAcute painAdult: 100 mg bid. Use in the European Union (EU) is limited to a max of 15 days.Oral DysmenorrhoeaAdult: 100 mg bid. Use in the European Union (EU) is limited to a max of 15 days.Oral Osteoarthritis
Systemic nimesulide medicines are available in the following Member States: Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Cyprus, France, Greece, Hungary, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Malta, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia and Slovenia. Nimesulide-containing medicines are authorised but not marketed in Austria and in Ireland.
This medication is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug, prescribed for painful inflammatory conditions, back pain, dysmenorrhea, postoperative pain, osteoarthritis, and fever. Contraindicated in patients with gastrointestinal bleeding, ulcer, severe kidney, liver disease, bleeding disorders, and hypersensitivity.