Speech therapy is a clinical program aimed at improving speech and language skills and oral motor abilities. Children who are able to talk may work on making their speech clearer, or on building their language skills by learning new words, learning to speak in sentences, or improving their listening skills. 
Top 10 facts about the world. Speech therapy is a form of therapy which is designed to address language and speech disorders. It is typically provided by a speech therapist, who may work with a psychologist, physiotherapist, or psychiatrist, depending on the patient's condition. Speech therapy for these types of conditions involves an assessment of the patient, which may be assisted by a doctor who can help the speech therapist determine what is causing the problem, followed by the development of a treatment plan to help the patient learn to speak.
The Speech-Language Pathology profession [edit]. Speech-Language Pathologists provide a wide range of services, mainly on an individual basis, but also as support for individuals, families, support groups, and providing information for the general public. Subsequent to the American Speech-Language-Hearing Association's (ASHA's) 2005 approval of the delivery of Speech-Language Pathology services via video conference, or telepractice, SLPs have begun delivering services via this service delivery method.
Speech disorders occur when a person is unable to produce speech sounds correctly or fluently, or has problems with their voice or resonance. Language disorders occur when a person has trouble understanding others (receptive language), or sharing thoughts, ideas, and feelings (expressive language). Read more. Careers in Speech-Language Pathology. Speech-language pathologists (SLPs) work to prevent, assess, diagnose, and treat speech, language, social communication, cognitive-communication, and swallowing disorders in children and adults.
Aimee Herring. Speech therapy is an intervention service that focuses on improving a child's speech and abilities to understand and express language, including nonverbal language. Speech therapists, or speech and language pathologists (SLPs), are the professionals who provide these services. If your child has a speech disability that includes trouble pronouncing words, speech therapy may help improve language development, communication, and pragmatic language skills.
(December 2014). Speech-language pathology is a field of expertise practiced by a clinician known as a Speech-language pathologist (SLP), also called speech and language therapist, or speech therapist, who specializes in the evaluation and treatment of communication disorders and swallowing disorders. Subsequent to the American Speech-Language-Hearing Association's (ASHA's) 2005 approval of the delivery of Speech-Language Pathology services via video conference, or telepractice, SLPs have begun delivering services via this service delivery method.
Speech, Language, and Swallowing. The professionals who are educated to assess speech and language development and to treat speech and language disorders are called speech-language pathologists (sometimes informally referred to as speech therapists). Speech-language pathologists can also help people with swallowing disorders. 
Speech-language pathologists must be able to listen to and communicate with their patient in order to determine the right course of treatment. Speech-language pathologists (sometimes called speech therapists) assess, diagnose, treat, and help to prevent communication and swallowing disorders in patients. The work of speech-language pathologists requires intense concentration because they must closely listen to what patients are able to say and then help them improve their speech. Listening skills. Speech-language pathologists must listen to a patient’s symptoms and problems to decide on a
Speech therapy may be beneficial for individuals who experience language disorders as a result of head trauma. Speech disorders involve physical obstacles to speak which create difficulty speaking. A stroke may lead to problems with speech, in addition to drooping and paralysis on the affected side of the face. Speech therapy for these types of conditions involves an assessment of the patient, which may be assisted by a doctor who can help the speech therapist determine what is causing the problem, followed by the development of a treatment plan to help the patient learn to speak.