It should only be used with a low pressure water supply (5 PSI or less). If you use it with a standard residential water supply you MUST USE A LOW PRESSURE REGULATOR between your water supply and this waterer. Alternatively, you may connect the waterer directly to a low pressure gravity feed system or a bucket. Maximum allowed water supply pressure is 5 PSI.
The system is based on these. They are poultry drinking nipples. They work just like a water bottle for a hamster. The chicken pecks at the nipple and drops of water come out. I chose the saddle-style nipples rather than the kind that are threaded and screw in because the saddle-style ones are easier to work with. They can be removed, replaced and reused. The screw-in kind can be replaced, but not reused. In the photo, the nipples are pointing up. During use, they will be straight down. Richard used a section of 2x4 to mount the PVC pipe on the wall of the coop. Once the bulkhead tap is opened, water flows through the black hose and into the PVC pipe. When a chicken pecks at one of the drinking nipples, water drips out.
Before we left on our recent road trip, we wanted to have a system in place to water the chickens so the neighbor who would be collecting the eggs wouldn’t have to deal with our problematic hanging waterers. I’d been planning such a system for some time. The new waterer would be gravity fed, so I needed a bit of elevation. We might also want to mount the waterer inside the coop, so the tank stand needed to be high enough to feed into the coop, but low enough that we could collect rainwater off the coop roof (ala pile of o’melays). This stand is just under 3′ tall
Works Well With Gravity Fed Systems Such as a 5 Gallon Bucket. The Push-In Style Nipple is the ideal poultry and gamebird nipple for both broiler and layer systems. 
I have decided on a new project for my girls (and boys!): a gravity feed chicken waterer. My ideas. I want to collect rain water from the chicken coop into a 44 gallon drum and supply that via a gravity system using nipples/rabbit waterer for on demand watering. And off course I would like to use around the house materials if possible. My problem is that I am stuck with my idea.
Gravity systems are simple but very complex at the same time. Having lived on spring water that was fed by gravity for over 50 years, I have some experience in making these systems work and easy to maintain. I hope that my simple overview will help you design, build, and enjoy a gravity-fed system, too. Now that we have our scoring system, let’s take my personal gravity system as an example. It is a natural spring, with a seasonal creek addition, that is about 1/4 mile from my home and 230 feet higher than my house. It is a moving water source and would score a 0 on my scale above.
Check out my amazing gravity-fed poultry watering system. I have two of these set up inside the chicken coop for my flock of 24 birds. Our friend Richard put them together using the components I purchased from an Amazon.com merchant by the name of the Coop Queen, in addition to some supplies from Lowe's. In the photo, the nipples are pointing up. During use, they will be straight down. Richard used a section of 2x4 to mount the PVC pipe on the wall of the coop. Once the bulkhead tap is opened, water flows through the black hose and into the PVC pipe. When a chicken pecks at one of the drinking nipples, water drips out.