Food Encyclopedia. Prized by gourmets throughout the world, sweetbreads are the thymus glands (called neck or throat sweetbreads) and pancreas (called heart, chest or stomach sweetbreads) of young animals, usually calf or lamb, sometimes pig. The former is elongated, the latter rounder and larger. The heart sweetbread is considered the more delectable (and is therefore more expensive) of the two because of its delicate flavor and firmer, creamy-smooth texture. Sweetbreads from milk-fed veal or young calves are considered the best.
Prized by gourmets throughout the world, sweetbreads are the thymus glands (called neck or throat sweetbreads) and pancreas (called heart, chest or stomach sweetbreads) of young animals, usually calf or lamb, sometimes pig. The heart sweetbread is considered the more delectable (and is therefore more expensive) of the two because of its delicate flavor and firmer, creamy-smooth texture. Sweetbreads from milk-fed veal or young calves are considered the best.
sweetbreads. Prized by gourmets throughout the world, sweetbreads are the thymus glands (called neck or throat sweetbreads) and pancreas (called heart, chest or stomach sweetbreads) of young animals, usually calf or lamb, sometimes pig. The former is elongated, the latter rounder and larger. The heart sweetbread is considered the more delectable (and is therefore more expensive) of the two because of its delicate flavor and firmer, creamy-smooth texture. Sweetbreads from milk-fed veal or young calves are considered the best.
Sweetbreads on mushroom (morel) risotto. Sweetbreads or ris are culinary names for the thymus (also called throat, gullet, or neck sweetbread) or the pancreas (also called heart, stomach, or belly sweetbread), especially of calf (ris de veau) and lamb (ris d'agneau), and, less commonly, of beef and pork. Rocky Mountain oyster, prairie oyster, or lamb fries). The heart sweetbreads are more spherical in shape, and surrounded symmetrically by the throat sweetbreads, which are more cylindrical in shape.
Sometimes sweetbreads from calves are called veal sweetbreads or sweetbread of veal but veal is the meat from a calf and not a type of animal, and all sweetbreads come from young animals, unless you consider the pancreas a true sweetbread, which I'll get to. The point is, the term veal sweetbreads is a bit redundant. 
Sweetbreads, though mild in flavor, have an offal-reminiscent flavor somewhat akin to brain. People often describe the texture as tender and creamy; I would add marginally juicy.. Sweetbreads made from an animal's pancreas and thymus glands (called the heart sweetbread and throat sweetbread, respectively). Heart sweetbreads are usually slightly larger, but they taste the same and are cooked the same way. 
There are two kinds of sweetbreads: stomach sweetbreads (also known as heart or belly sweetbreads), which are an animal's pancreas, and neck (AKA throat or gullet) sweetbreads, an animal's thymus gland. 
- Pri. Sweetbreads are the thymus and pancreas glands of animals. There are two kinds of sweetbreads: (1) stomach sweetbreads (also known as heart or belly sweetbreads), which are an animal's pancreas. (2) neck (throat or gullet) sweetbreads, an animal's thymus gland. These glands are classified as Offal in culinary circles, meaning, literally, the off-fall or off-cuts from the carcass; many call these items variety meats.
The thymus gland (known as throat sweetbread) and the pancreas (stomach sweetbread), especially of the calf and lamb (although beef sweetbreads are sometimes eaten), are considered delicacies and are rich in mineral elements and vitamins. The pancreas is generally preferred to the thymus. No. Testicles are referred to as Rocky Mountain Oysters. Sweetbreads are the thymus glands or pancreas of calves, lambs, and piglets. They are similar in both texture and … taste to rocky mountain oysters however.
The word sweetbread is first attested in the 16th century, but the etymology of the name is unclear.  Sweet  is perhaps used since the thymus is sweet and rich-tasting, as opposed to savory-tasting muscle flesh. Bread may come from brede, roasted meat or from the Old English brǣd (flesh or meat). Rocky Mountain oyster, prairie oyster, or lamb fries). The heart sweetbreads are more spherical in shape, and surrounded symmetrically by the throat sweetbreads, which are more cylindrical in shape.