The chief goal of the Vienna decision makers was to create a lasting peace by establishing a balance of power and protecting the system of monarchy. Metternich's three goals for the Congress of Vienna were to 1) prevent futur French aggression, 2) restore the balance of power and 3) he wanted to restore Europe's royal fami … ly back to the thrones they held before Napoleon's conquest. + 47 others found this useful. Connor Bint.
There were 4 main goals of the Congress of Vienna: 1. Most importantly, the Congress of Vienna wanted to create a balance of power between the 5 major powers in Europe (Britai … n, France, Austria, Prussia, and Russia) 2. Metternich's three goals for the Congress of Vienna were to 1) prevent futur French aggression, 2) restore the balance of power and 3) he wanted to restore Europe's royal fami … ly back to the thrones they held before Napoleon's conquest. + 49 others found this useful. Connor Bint
The Revolution of 1830. The Congress of Vienna was convened in 1815 by the four European powers which had defeated Napoleon. The first goal was to establish a new balance of power in Europe which would prevent imperialism within Europe, such as the Napoleonic empire, and maintain the peace between the great powers. The new French government, under the restored Bourbon dynasty in the person of King Louis XVIII, was enlisted as an ally by the British. France was invited to send a representative to the Congress of Vienna and was, thereafter, involved as the fifth great power of the Grand Alliance. Agreement was reached avoiding war.
The national boundaries within Europe are set by the Congress of Vienna, 1815. The Congress of Vienna was a conference of ambassadors of European states chaired by Austrian statesman Klemens Wenzel von Metternich, and held in Vienna from September 1814 to June 1815. The Congress of Vienna was the first of a series of international meetings that came to be known as the Concert of Europe, which was an attempt to forge a peaceful balance of power in Europe.
There were 4 main goals of the Congress of Vienna: 1. Most importantly, the Congress of Vienna wanted to create a balance of power between the 5 major powers in Europe (Britai … n, France, Austria, Prussia, and Russia) 2. Metternich's three goals for the Congress of Vienna were to 1) prevent futur French aggression, 2) restore the balance of power and 3) he wanted to restore Europe's royal fami … ly back to the thrones they held before Napoleon's conquest. + 47 others found this useful. Connor Bint.
Confidence votes 92. The chief goal of the Congress of Vienna was to create a lasting peace by establishing a balance of power and protecting the system of monarchy. Metternich's three goals for the Congress of Vienna were to 1) prevent futur French aggression, 2) restore the balance of power and 3) he wanted to restore Europe's royal fami … ly back to the thrones they held before Napoleon's conquest. + 49 others found this useful. Connor Bint
The chief goal of the Congress of Vienna was to create a lasting peace by establishing a balance of power and protecting the system of monarchy. 48 people found this useful. Metternich's three goals for the Congress of Vienna were to 1) prevent futur French aggression, 2) restore the balance of power and 3) he wanted to restore Europe's royal fami … ly back to the thrones they held before Napoleon's conquest. + 47 others found this useful. Connor Bint.
The chief goal of the Vienna decision makers was to create a lasting peace by establishing a balance of power and protecting the system of monarchy. 16 people found this useful. Metternich's three goals for the Congress of Vienna were to 1) prevent futur French aggression, 2) restore the balance of power and 3) he wanted to restore Europe's royal fami … ly back to the thrones they held before Napoleon's conquest. + 49 others found this useful. Connor Bint