A mark left on the skin after a wound heals. Cells called fibroblasts produce collagen fibers, which form bundles that make up the bulk of scar tissue. Scars have a blood supply but no oil glands or elastic tissue, so they can be slightly painful or itchy.
There is only one type of scar. The appearance of a scar depends on the nature of the wound that produced the damage, the anatomical location of the wound, and a variety of genetic factors that are different for each individual.
A scar is the body's natural way of healing and replacing lost or damaged skin. A scar is usually composed of fibrous tissue. Scars may be formed for many different reasons, including as a result of infections, surgery, injuries, or inflammation of tissue. Scars may appear anywhere on the body, and the composition of a scar may vary-appearing flat, lumpy, sunken, colored, painful, or itchy.
Scars come in various shapes, sizes and even colors. These different characteristics depend on many factors: how the skin was damaged, how well the skin heals, your personal and family history of scarring, how old the scar is and where it is on your body. Likewise, each different type might need different types of care or treatment. Types of scars:
Scars are a natural part of the body's healing process. A scar results from the biologic process of wound repair in the skin and other tissues. Most wounds, except for very minor ones, result in some degree of scarring. Scars can result from accidents, diseases, skin conditions such as acne, or surgeries.
Scars form when the dermis (deep, thick layer of skin) is damaged. The body forms new collagen fibers (a naturally occurring protein in the body) to mend the damage, resulting in a scar.
A scar is usually composed of fibrous tissue. Scars may be formed for many different reasons, including as a result of infections, surgery, injuries, or inflammation of tissue. Scars may appear anywhere on the body, and the composition of a scar may vary.
Abnormal scars sometimes form after the wound has healed. There are many different types of scars, including the following: 1  keloid scars. 2  These are thick, rounded, irregular clusters of scar tissue that grow at the site of a wound on the skin, but beyond the edges of the borders of the wound.