It is used to treat a number of different conditions, such as inflammation (swelling), severe allergies, adrenal problems, arthritis, asthma, blood or bone marrow problems, eye or vision problems, lupus, skin conditions, kidney problems, ulcerative colitis, and flare-ups of multiple sclerosis. METHYLPREDNISOLONE is a corticosteroid. It is commonly used to treat inflammation of the skin, joints, lungs, and other organs. Common conditions treated include asthma, allergies, and arthritis.
Methylprednisolone is the generic form of the brand name drug Solu-Medrol, a corticosteroid that relieves inflammation and improves problems caused by a decrease in adrenal gland function. The medicine is used to treat a variety of conditions, including: 1  Multiple sclerosis. 2  Certain types of arthritis. 3  Intestinal disorders such as ulcerative colitis. 4  Severe allergies. 5  Asthma. 6  Flares of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). 7  Lupus. 8  Skin disorders such as psoriasis. 9  Blood, kidney, eye, and thyroid problems. 10  Cancer
How to use methylprednisolone. Take this medication by mouth as directed by your doctor, usually with food or milk. Follow your dosing instructions carefully. The dosage and length of treatment are based on your medical condition and response to treatment. Different dosing schedules exist for this medication. To prevent these withdrawal symptoms when stopping methylprednisolone, your doctor may reduce your dose gradually. Consult your doctor or pharmacist for more details and report any withdrawal reactions immediately. See also Precautions section. Tell your doctor if your condition does not improve or if it worsens.
Uses. Methylprednisolone is used to treat conditions such as arthritis, blood disorders, severe allergic reactions, certain cancers, eye conditions, skin / kidney /intestinal/ lung diseases, and immune system disorders.
Methylprednisolone is used to treat many different conditions such as allergic disorders, skin conditions, ulcerative colitis, arthritis, lupus, psoriasis, or breathing disorders. Methylprednisolone may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide. 
Methylprednisolone is a steroid that prevents the release of substances in the body that cause inflammation. Methylprednisolone is used to treat many different conditions such as allergic disorders, skin conditions, ulcerative colitis, arthritis, lupus, psoriasis, or breathing disorders. You should not use this medication if you are allergic to methylprednisolone, or if you have a fungal infection anywhere in your body. Before taking methylprednisolone, tell your doctor about all of your medical conditions, and about all other medicines you are using.
Methylprednisolone is used to treat conditions such as arthritis, blood disorders, severe allergic reactions, certain cancers, eye conditions, skin / kidney /intestinal/ lung diseases, and immune system disorders. To prevent these withdrawal symptoms when stopping methylprednisolone, your doctor may reduce your dose gradually. Consult your doctor or pharmacist for more details and report any withdrawal reactions immediately. See also Precautions section. Tell your doctor if your condition does not improve or if it worsens.
Like most adrenocortical steroids, methylprednisolone is typically used for its anti-inflammatory effects. However, glucocorticoids have a wide range of effects, including changes to metabolism and immune responses. 
It is used to treat a number of different conditions, such as inflammation (swelling), severe allergies, adrenal problems, arthritis, asthma, blood or bone marrow problems, eye or vision problems, lupus, skin conditions, kidney problems, ulcerative colitis, and flare-ups of multiple sclerosis. Methylprednisolone is a corticosteroid (cortisone-like medicine or steroid). It works on the immune system to help relieve swelling, redness, itching, and allergic reactions. This medicine is available only with your doctor's prescription.
methylprednisolone. METHYLPREDNISOLONE is a corticosteroid. It is commonly used to treat inflammation of the skin, joints, lungs, and other organs. Common conditions treated include asthma, allergies, and arthritis. It is also used for other conditions, such as blood disorders and diseases of the adrenal glands