These are the some advantages of HGP. This issue has some disadvantages, too. Discovering the genome sequence can cause to learn untreatable genetic disease in people’s future, it will damage people in psychological field.
Breezetta L. Narcisse. The Human Genome Project is a 15 year, 3 billion dollar venture whose goals involve identifying the 80,000 genes in human DNA and determining the sequences of the 3 billion chemical bases that make up human DNA. Genes are made up of a threadlike material called DNA.
A single gene may contain thousands of bases, so the Human Genome Project (HGP) is not any easy task. First, scientists have to go into the cells nucleus, where the DNA is located. Here the DNA is tightly coiled, so researchers have to uncoil it and then examine the DNA and write down the order of the bases.
The most important benefit of the Human Genome Project are the medical discoveries that can be linked to HGP. Many serious conditions and diseases can be better understood and treated with the research that is obtained through the Human Genome Project.
The Human Genome Project. Base pairs on a DNA molecule. The genetic information in an organism is called its genome. The Human Genome Project, or HGP for short, was started at the end of the last century.
The Human Genome Project is an international effort to map and sequence all the DNA base pairs of the human genome. It's also an effort to identify the all the genes and the p … rotein/trait that they code for in the human genome. + 23 others found this useful.
The Human Genome Project is also referred to as HGP and involves a global collaboration to gain more information about human genes. This project began around 1990 and was sponsored by the National Human Genome Research Institute. The point of this project is to make more genes available for research.
Begun in 1990, the Human Genome Project was a venture set forth to help scientists and bio-technicians understand revolutionary new ways to diagnose, treat, and someday prevent the thousands of disorders that affect us. A genome is all the DNA in an organism, including its genes.