[Source]. Addison's Disease, also known as primary hypoadrenalism, is an endocrine disorder affecting the adrenal glands where the adrenal glands fail to produce cortisol and sometimes mineralcorticol steroids. The adrenal glands are located directly above the kidneys (one above each kidney). 
In Addison's disease, the adrenal glands don't make enough of a hormone called cortisol, or less often, a related hormone called aldosterone. That's why doctors sometimes call the illness ''chronic adrenal insufficiency,'' or hypocortisolism. Long-lasting infections -- such as tuberculosis, HIV, and some fungal infections -- can harm the adrenal glands. Cancer cells that spread from other parts of the body to the adrenal glands also can cause Addison's disease. 1 | 2. WebMD Medical Reference.
The disease is characterized by weight loss, muscle weakness, fatigue, low blood pressure, and sometimes darkening of the skin in both exposed and non-exposed parts of the body. Addisons disease occurs when the adrenal glands do not produce enough of the hormone cortisol and in some cases, the hormone aldosterone. For this reason, the disease is sometimes called chronic adrenal insufficiency, or hypocortisolism. 
Addison's disease should also be distinguished from secondary and tertiary adrenal insufficiency, which are caused by deficiency of ACTH (produced by the pituitary gland) and CRH (produced by the hypothalamus), respectively. Despite this distinction, Addisonian crises can happen in all forms of adrenal insufficiency. Autoimmune adrenalitis is the most common cause of Addison's disease in the industrialised world. Autoimmune destruction of the adrenal cortex is caused by an immune reaction against the enzyme 21-hydroxylase (a phenomenon first described in 1992).
Less commonly, Addison's disease is due to secondary adrenal insufficiency caused by a problem with the pituitary gland or a problem with the hypothalamus, both located in the center of the brain. If ACTH levels are too low, the adrenal glands stay in the off position. Another cause of secondary adrenal insufficiency is prolonged or improper use of steroid hormones such as prednisone. Less common causes include pituitary tumors and damage to the pituitary gland during surgery or radiation.
With Addison’s disease, the immune system attacks the outer portion of the adrenal glands (the cortex), where cortisol and aldosterone are made. Other causes of Addison’s disease include: 1  injury to the adrenal glands. 2  infection, including tuberculosis, HIV/AIDS-related infections, and fungal infections. 3  cancer cells from another part of the body that have invaded the adrenal glands. 4  bleeding into the adrenal glands. 5  surgical removal of the adrenal glands.
Periods of hypoglycemia, with nervousness and extreme hunger for salty foods, can occur, particularly in children. If Addison disease is not treated, severe abdominal pain, profound weakness, extremely low blood pressure, kidney failure, and shock may occur (adrenal crisis). An adrenal crisis often occurs if the body is subjected to stress, such as an accident, injury, surgery, or severe infection. Death may quickly follow. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Addison’s disease (also Addison disease, chronic adrenal insufficiency, hypocortisolism, and hypoadrenalism) is a rare, chronic endocrine system disorder in which the adrenal glands do not produce sufficient steroid hormones (glucocorticoids and mineralocorticoids). Autoimmune adrenalitis is the most common cause of Addison's disease in the industrialised world. Autoimmune destruction of the adrenal cortex is caused by an immune reaction against the enzyme 21-hydroxylase (a phenomenon first described in 1992).
(Also Called 'Chronic Adrenal Insufficiency'). Addison’s disease is a disorder in which the adrenal glands--which sit on top of the kidneys--do not produce enough of the hormones cortisol and aldosterone. (Hormones are chemicals that control the function of tissues or organs.). Other causes of Addison’s disease include: 1  injury to the adrenal glands. 2  infection, including tuberculosis, HIV/AIDS-related infections, and fungal infections. 3  cancer cells from another part of the body that have invaded the adrenal glands. 4  bleeding into the adrenal glands. 5  surgical removal of
This autoimmune assault destroys the outer layer of the glands. Long-lasting infections -- such as tuberculosis, HIV, and some fungal infections -- can harm the adrenal glands. Cancer cells that spread from other parts of the body to the adrenal glands also can cause Addison's disease. 1 | 2. WebMD Medical Reference.