Simoniz MotoTect is a new protectant designed to maintain the exterior of your motorcycle. 1  Utilizes exclusive Simoniz GlassCoat ceramic resin technology.
Synthetic Sealer Auto Paint Sealant. Simoniz Synthetic Sealer is the highest quality synthetic sealant offering extreme wash resistance. Synthetic Sealer's unique formula increases depth of paint gloss, while accelerating paint luster. This product can also be used as a finish wax in the two-step buffing process.
1 To back up our GlassCoat™ product, we provide you with a product warranty for up to 7 years on new vehicles and 6 years on used vehicles. 2  If the process fails, the warranty will repair or repaint your vehicle. 3  GlassCoat™ is a clear liquid that is applied to the clearcoat of
Simoniz utilizes Teflon Surface Protector's unique properties in a process that is applied to the interior seats, floor mats and carpeting of your vehicle. This process protects your interior from stains from any consumable food product plus lipstick, make-up, vomit, crayons, urine, and blood.
1 When professionally applied to your vehicle, GlassCoat polymerizes on the clearcoat of your vehicle and forms a unique ceramic glass resin. 2  TO back up the GlassCoat product, SIMONIZ® will provide you with a product warranty for up to 7 years on new vehicles and 6 years on used vehicles.
1 Simoniz® utilizes Teflon® Surface Protector's unique properties in a process that is applied to the interior seats, floor mats and carpeting of your vehicle. 2  This process protects your interior from stains from any consumable food product plus lipstick, make-up, vomit, crayons, urine, pet waste and blood.
1 TO back up the GlassCoat product, SIMONIZ® will provide you with a product warranty for up to 7 years on new vehicles and 6 years on used vehicles. 2  If the process fails, the warranty will repair or repaint your vehicle.
The sales associate helping me buy the car tells me that they offer a premium Simoniz glass coat paint and DuPont fabric protection for $595. 2012 model year comes with a 7 year-can't fix it, they'll replace it-no deductible warranty for the paint, the seats and carpets. 2011 is 6 years, '10 is 5 years, '09 is 4 years.