(1) Native means of birth.or born with. (2) One's own native language is the one acquired at birth, or soon after, one's mother tongue, the one you were (so to speak) born with.. Thus I am a native speaker of English (3) The language of the people born in a place. Native language is that language spoken by the people of that country to which an individual belongs to. In some cases, it may be the language spoken by that state, province, town, etc...which the individual is also fluent in. Shrizzitania · 3 years ago. Thumbs up
1 [Leonard] Bloomfield (1933) defines a native language as one learned on one's mother's knee, and claims that no one is perfectly sure in a language that is acquired later. ' 2 The first language a human being learns to speak is his native language; he is a native speaker of this language' (1933: 43). (iUniverse, 2000). Definition. In most cases, the language that a person acquires in early childhood because it is spoken in the family and/or it is the language of the region where the child lives. Also known as a mother tongue, first language, or arterial language.
Native language means the language you speak in your country. Such as, I am a native to Germany, so my native tongue is German, the one I speak primarily. Native language is that language spoken by the people of that country to which an individual belongs to. In some cases, it may be the language spoken by that state, province, town, etc...which the individual is also fluent in. Shrizzitania · 3 years ago. Thumbs up
up vote 44 down vote accepted. A native speaker of English refers to someone who has learned and used English from early childhood. It does not necessarily mean that it is the speaker's only language, but it means it is and has been the primary means of concept formation and communication. It means having lived in a truly English-speaking culture during one's formative years, so that English has been absorbed effortlessly as by osmosis. But formal English is only one aspect of the language. Knowing instantly what slang means, what cultural references mean, how to reduce syntax to a bare minimum and still convey precise meaning — all these things, and more, are what constitute native speech.
The noun NATIVE LANGUAGE has 1 sense: 1. the language that a person has spoken from earliest childhood. Familiarity information: NATIVE LANGUAGE used as a noun is very rare. 
• NATIVE (noun). The noun NATIVE has 1 sense: 1. a person who was born in a particular place; an indigenous person. Familiarity information: NATIVE used as a noun is very rare. 
Mother tongue and native language are set phrases that both refer to the language one has started learning from birth. One generally associates mother with tongue and native with language but it is sometimes found the other way round. Language and tongue are here synonyms. I would say mother or native is not identical though. When using native the reference is more to the country/nation. add a comment |. up vote 3 down vote. Mother tongue and Native language have similar, meanings and are often actually interchangeable, however there is a subtle difference. Native language refers to the language of the area the person grows up in.
Sometimes the term mother tongue or mother language is used for the language that a person learned as a child at home (usually from their parents). Children growing up in bilingual homes can, according to this definition, have more than one mother tongue or native language. In some countries, such as Kenya, India, and various East Asian countries, mother language or native language is used to indicate the language of one's ethnic group, in both common and journalistic parlance (e.g. I have no apologies for not learning my mother tongue), rather than one's first language.