There is no risk of yellow fever in Saint Lucia. The government of Saint Lucia requires proof of yellow fever vaccination only if you are arriving from a country with risk of yellow fever. This does not include the US. 
Like on many Caribbean islands, most violent crime on St Lucia involves only locals, but tourists are not immune, as the shocking murder of Mr Pratt demonstrates. Despite the shocking murder of Roger Pratt, the Foreign Office says most visits to St Lucia are trouble free Photo: ALAMY. By James Edgar. “We welcome tourism and we’re very happy and very friendly people who look after all our visitors very well. It is definitely a safe place to go.”. Sean Tipton for the travel association ABTA said this week the safety record of St Lucia was very, very good.
Saint Lucia has been ranked as one of the top 10 most dangerous cruise destinations in the world, according to an article on an international cruise website – www.cruiselawnews.com. A screenshot of the online publication which ranks St. Lucia among the top 10 most dangerous cruise destinations. The top most dangerous cruise destination in the Caribbean, according to the article, was Bahamas. The others listed were 2.
When traveling on St. Lucia, take some common-sense precautions for personal safety and to avoid unnecessary risks. Because tourists can be a main target for crime, be especially careful in popular tourist destinations, including the beach. St. Lucia is still relatively off the radar for a majority of Caribbean vacationers, but its natural beauty has quickly led to a booming tourist industry in recent years. Although crime is not as much of an issue as it can be on larger, more developed Caribbean islands, it is still a concern
Saint Lucia (/seɪnt ˈluːʃə/ ; French: Sainte-Lucie) is a sovereign island country in the eastern Caribbean Sea on the boundary with the Atlantic Ocean. Part of the Lesser Antilles, it is located north/northeast of the island of Saint Vincent, northwest of Barbados and south of Martinique. 
Jean-Marc Flambert, the St Lucia Tourist Board’s head of marketing for the UK and Europe, said the island is “definitely a safe place” as long as visitors take “normal precautions”, and there had not been an increase in violent crime against tourists. “We welcome tourism and we’re very happy and very friendly people who look after all our visitors very well. It is definitely a safe place to go.”. Sean Tipton for the travel association ABTA said this week the safety record of St Lucia was very, very good.
And good luck finding a bathroom!! As beautiful as St Lucia is, there are MUCH friendlier islands in the Caribbean IMHO. And there are also places in the Caribbean that are considered a LOT safer to roam freely around the island.....not true on St Lucia. The only warning I would give you is not to go to the capital city Castries after nightfall! Even during the day Castries can be a bit too much to deal with and you should not wander about since you can easily end up on the wrong street. Just to sum it up-St. Lucia is one of the best locations in the world. I have also been to Hawaii but I think St. Lucia is a more exotic destination. It has the beauty of Hawaii with the dramatic volcanic mountains covered in rainforest but the culture of St. Lucia adds so much more spice and flavour that Hawaii simply does not have
Roger Pratt was killed in the incident. It took place in the far south of the Caribbean island at the port of Vieux Fort, which is close to St Lucia's international airport. With its lovely beaches and dramatic, rainforested scenery, St Lucia is one of the most idyllic Caribbean destinations. Around 70,000 British holidaymakers visited the island last year, most on day trips from cruise ships or fly-and-stay packages – St Lucia has some of the most romantic hotels in the region. So despite the minister's words of reassurance, violent crime is clearly an issue on St Lucia. The travel advice for St Lucia on the Foreign Office's website bears this out. It says: Incidents of violent crime, including murder, tend to occur within the local community but can sometimes affect tourists.