If a Federal Court has subject matter jurisdiction over one or more of the claims in a case, it has discretion to exercise ancillary jurisdiction over other state law claims. The Supreme Court has cautioned that ...
jurisdiction. n. the authority given by law to a court to try cases and rule on legal matters within a particular geographic area and/or over certain types of legal cases. It is vital to determine before a lawsuit is filed which court has 
For the most part, federal courts only hear: 1  Cases in which the United States is a party; 2  Cases involving violations of the U.S. Constitution or federal laws (under federal-question jurisdiction); 3  Cases between citizens of different states if the amount in controversy exceeds $75,000 (under diversity jurisdiction); and.
That is, a court can gain personal jurisdiction over a party only if the party has a connection to the geographic area in which the court sits. Traditionally, this connection was satisfied only by the presence of the defendant in the state where the court sat.
A federal court, on the other hand, has more extensive jurisdiction than a state court. While the jurisdiction of state courts are limited by their boundaries, the federal court system covers the entire nation. For example, the Supreme Court can hear cases from any state. Federal Courts of Appeal can hear cases from any of the states in their region (except for the D.C.
The American legal system includes both state courts and federal courts. State courts hear cases involving state law, and such federal laws as are not restricted to hearing in federal courts. Federal courts may only hear cases where federal jurisdiction can be established.
Concurrent jurisdiction means that both the state and federal court have jurisdiction over the matter. If a claim can be filed in either state or federal court, and the plaintiff files the claim in state court, the defendant may remove the case to federal court (28 U.S.C.A. §§ 1441 et seq.).
1 Jurisdiction is the sphere of authority of a court. 2  By far, most cases are heard by state courts. 3  Cases are heard in federal courts if the U.S. government is a party in the case or if the case involves federal statutes, treaties with other nations, or the U.S. Constitution.
1 The California superior courts are general jurisdiction courts. 2  Limited Jurisdiction, which means that a court has restrictions on the cases it can decide. 3  Small claims court is a court of limited jurisdiction. 4  It can only hear and decide cases that claim damages of $10,000 or less.