DNA is the chemical that chromosomes and genes are made of. DNA itself is made up of four simple chemical units that are abbreviated as A, G, C, and T. These letters are used to form three letter words that cells can read. A chromosome is simply a very long piece of DNA that cells can easily copy. A gene is a stretch of DNA on a chromosome that has the instructions for making a protein. Each chromosome has many genes with humans having over 22,000 genes in all. A gene's instructions for a protein are written in the three letter code I referred to before. A protein is a molecular machine that does a specific job.
Chromosomes are molecules that consist of a very long strand of DNA coiled many times, and a few proteins called histones which hold the whole structure together. To put things very simply, chromosomes are made up of genes and genes are made of DNA. A gene is a section of the DNA that codes for something, like hair color. DNA is a double helix of nucleic acids. DNA twists and folds to create a structure called a chromosome. Source(s): B.S. in Neurobiology.
The resulting bundle is called a chromosome. A Gene is a particular section of the chromosome's DNA string. There are many such sections on the DNA string-thus it contains (also calls 'codes') many genes-in humans between 500 and 4500 depending on what chromosome. One gene contains information for producing one particular protein. A chromosome is a long packaged DNA sequence. The human diploid (DNA From both mother and father) cell has 46 of these. A chromosome contains thousands of genes which are the … sequences in the actual DNA that code for end products such as proteins.
Best Answer: DNA is the entire genetic material. A Chromosome is a strand of DNA containging the genes. A gene is a part of a chromosome which carries the information that is passed on to offspring. A gene is a section of the DNA that codes for something, like hair color. DNA is a double helix of nucleic acids. DNA twists and folds to create a structure called a chromosome. Source(s): B.S. in Neurobiology.
Genes. A gene is a length of DNA that codes for a specific protein. So, for example, one gene will code for the protein insulin, which is important role in helping your body to control the amount of sugar in your blood. Genes are the basic unit of genetics. Human beings have 20,000 to 25,000 genes. 
Chromosomes are strans of DNA genes are what chromosomes are made up of. A gene can be dominant or recessive and that is why one of you parents has brown eyes and the other ha … s blue and you have brown because brown eyes is dominant and blue is recessive. Hope this helps. A gene is a sequence of DNA that determines a particular trait. A chromosome is a coiled DNA chromosome that contains the organisms genetic code (aka-genes).
Best Answer: In one sentance, the relationship can be summed up as: Chromatin is the complex of DNA and protein that makes up chromosomes.. To expand further: DNA is formed of a double-stranded nucleic acids (aka double-helix). DNA spends most of the time in a state that is very long and relatively fragile. 
DNA is found in the nucleus of the cell. Eukaryote chromosomes are made up of DNA and proteins. A gene is a heritable factor that controls a specific characteristic of an organism. 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: When a cell needs to duplicate, DNA strands are tightly coiled into chromosomes (chromosomes are made up of DNA and protein). Genes are certain stretches of DNA that code for a certain protein with a specific bodily function. On a chromosome, the location of the gene is called a locus. Chromosomes contain ~ equal parts of scaffolding protein and DNA that form a linear structure. The structure can be opened out for access to genes (open reading frames) located along the DNA or the structure can be compressed for easy handling during cell replication.