Then just follow the diagram below. Just for fun, see the name Harsha in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Harsha in Nautical Flags page. Indian names generally contain a given name followed by some number of secondary names. Secondary names are often patronyms, names derived from the father, grandfather or other paternal ancestor, village names, occupation names, or names of gods. Hindu given names are from Sanskrit.
It ranked 11118 in popular baby names for boys with 6 occurrences. View the Harsha Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Harsha has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Harsha to other names. The name Harshad is a form of Harsha. Indian names generally contain a given name followed by some number of secondary names. Secondary names are often patronyms, names derived from the father, grandfather or other paternal ancestor, village names, occupation names, or names of gods. Hindu given names are from Sanskrit.
[ 2 syll. har -(s) ha, ha-r- sha ] The baby boy name Harsha is also used as a girl name. It is pronounced as HHaaR-SH AA †. Harsha is used chiefly in the Indian language and its origin is Sanskrit. Harsha is a variant of the name Harsa (Indian). Harsha is a rarely used baby name for boys. It is not listed in the top 1000 names. 
Harsha. Show similar names Show variant names. Name Harsha generally means Happiness or Joy or Delight, is of Indian origin, Name Harsha is a Feminine (or Girl) name. This name is shared across persons, who are either Jain or Hindu by religion. . Find Rashi, Numerology, Lucky number, lucky days, lucky color, Auspicious stones for Harsha or Find Chinese zodiac sign or Birthstone for your birthday. Similar sounding names: Hrishi, Hiroshi, Harusha, Hirsh, Hareesh, Hersh, Haresh, Harshi, Harsh, Hiresh, Harish.
Meaning of Indian name: Harsha. Meaning of the name Harsha is 'One who brings happiness'. Harsha is a name of Hindu / Indian origin, and is commonly used for females. The name number for Harsha is '1'. Click here to get the numerological analysis for the name 'Harsha '.
Harsha in Nautical Flags. Indian names or Hindu names are listed in Our Baby Namer under Indian, Hindi and Sanskrit. Other names which may be used my Muslim Indians would be listed under Arabic or Iranian names. Indian names generally contain a given name followed by some number of secondary names. Secondary names are often patronyms, names derived from the father, grandfather or other paternal ancestor, village names, occupation names, or names of gods. Hindu given names are from Sanskrit.
Share this page : Who is he? Harsha is a warm, friendly and cheerful man (often ruled by Jupiter-his first name adds up to 12 like Jupiter´s cycle, or born under the sign of Gemini), who is generally enthusiastic-exuberant even, and this just makes him even more likeable. Harsha is eager to please and likes to seduce, charm and converse with his peers. He is far from indifferent to the pleasures that this world has to offer and appreciates beautiful objects, comfort and a cosy home while he is greatly influenced by his family.
A social butterfly, Harsha is likely to be attracted by a career in connection with business and commerce, communication or oral or written expression..., in liaison with creation and the artistic domain or in some way related to real estate or the hotel business. Harsha is eager to please and likes to seduce, charm and converse with his peers. He is far from indifferent to the pleasures that this world has to offer and appreciates beautiful objects, comfort and a cosy home while he is greatly influenced by his family.