By Jennifer Kennedy. Definition: Placoid scales (dermal denticles) are tough scales that cover the skin of elasmobranchs (sharks and rays). Even though placoid scales are similar to the scales of bony fish, they are really modified teeth and are covered with a hard enamel. Placoid scales are packed tightly together and grow with their tips facing backwards. This dentine is covered by enamel-like vitrodentine. Scales in bony fish grow as the fish gets larger, but placoid scales stop growing after they reach a certain size, and then more scales are added as the fish grows.
Placoid scales are found in sharks and rays, and can vary greatly in external appearance. Scales of a White Shark. Photographer: Sue Lindsay © Australian Museum. Unlike the scales of bony fishes, placoid scales do not increase in size as the fish grows, instead new scales are added between older scales. Placoid scales are often referred to as denticles. Each placoid scale consists of a flattened rectangular base plate which is embedded in the fish, and variously developed structures, such as spines, which project posteriorly on the surface. The spines give many species a rough texture. There are large differences in the development of these spines between different species. Placoid scales are composed of a vascular (supplied with blood) inner core of pulp, a middle layer of dentine and a hard enamel-like outer layer of vitrodentine.
Scales serve to protect the body from the outside dangers such as predators and infection. Cosmoid scales Cosmoid scales are found in the Lungfish (family Ceratodidae) and some fossil fishes. Cosmoid scales are similar to placoid scales and likely evolved from the fusion of placoid scales. They consist of two basal layers of bone, a layer of dentinelayer of dentine--like cosmine, and an outer like cosmine, and an outer layer of vitrodentine. Placoid Scales Often referred to as denticles. 
Like our teeth, placoid scales have an inner core of pulp (made up of connective tissues, blood vessels, and nerves), which is covered by a layer of dentine (hard calcareous material). This dentine is covered by enamel-like vitrodentine. Scales in bony fish grow as the fish gets larger, but placoid scales stop growing after they reach a certain size, and then more scales are added as the fish grows.
Dogfish Shark Placoid Scales. Dogfish sharks are small sharks belonging to one of three families: the dogfish shark family, Squalidae; the requiem shark family, Carcharhinidae; and the cat shark family, Scyliorhinidae. The green dogfish, along with several other members of the dogfish shark family, is luminescent. Scales are small plates that form part of the skin of certain animals. They provide protection from the environment and from predators. Sharks have placoid scales, bony, spiny projections with an enamel-like covering. These scales have the same structure as their teeth, and are also referred to as dermal denticles (dermal=skin, denticle=teeth)
The morphology of a scale can be used to identify the species of fish it came from. Cartilaginous fishes (sharks and rays) are covered with placoid scales. Most bony fishes are covered with the cycloid scales of salmon and carp, or the ctenoid scales of perch, or the ganoid scales of sturgeons and gars. Placoid scales cannot grow in size, but rather more scales are added as the fish increases in size. Similar scales can also be found under the head of the denticle herring. The amount of scale coverage is much less in rays and chimaeras. The skin of sharks is entirely covered by placoid scale
Darkfield Digital Image Gallery Dogfish Shark Placoid Scales Dogfish sharks are small sharks belonging to one of three families: the dogfish shark family, Squalidae; the requiem shark family, Carcharhinidae; and the cat shark family, Scyliorhinidae. The green dogfish, along with several other members of the dogfish shark family, is luminescent. Scales are small plates that form part of the skin of certain animals. They provide protection from the environment and from predators. Sharks have placoid scales, bony, spiny projections with an enamel-like covering. These scales have the same structure as their teeth, and are also referred to as dermal denticles (dermal=skin, denticle=teeth)
Definition of PLACOID. : of, relating to, or being a scale of dermal origin with an enamel-tipped spine characteristic of the elasmobranchs. ADVERTISEMENT. Greek plak-, plax flat surface. First Known Use: 1842. 