Chitosan. Celox™ is made using chitosan, a natural polymer extracted from the shells of shrimp and crabs. Chitosan is a polysaccharide (long chain of sugars) and has some very interesting properties when treated the right way. The chitosan in Celox™ has been reacted to improve many of its properties. 
The degree of deacetylation and the molecular weight of chitosan can be modified in order to obtain different physico-mechanical properties. The elemental composition of the chitosan polymer is carbon (44.11%), hydrogen (6.84%) and nitrogen (7.97 %). The viscosity average molecular weight of chitosan is ~5.3x10 5 Daltons. Scanning electron micrograph of chitosan-coated nanoparticles loaded with docetaxel. It is either partially or fully deacetylated chitin. As chitin occurs naturally (for example in fungal cell walls and crustacean shells), chitosan is a fully biodegradable and biocompatible natural polymer, and can be used as an adhesive and as an antibacterial and antifungal agent.
Chitosan has a number of commercial and possible biomedical uses. It can be used in agriculture as a seed treatment and biopesticide, helping plants to fight off fungal infections. In winemaking it can be used as a fining agent, also helping to prevent spoilage. Commercial chitosan is derived from the shells of shrimp and other sea crustaceans, including Pandalus borealis, pictured here. Chitosan is produced commercially by deacetylation of chitin, which is the structural element in the exoskeleton of crustaceans (such as crabs and shrimp) and cell walls of fungi. The degree of deacetylation (%DD) can be determined by NMR spectroscopy, and the %DD in commercial chitosans ranges from 60 to 100%
Dr. Steven Kaganove. Chitosan is a natural biopolymer that is found in the shells of shrimp and other crustaceans, and is the second most abundant natural polysaccharide in the world after cellulose. Currently, its most common commercial uses are in cosmetics, organic fertilizers and dietary supplements. 
The obtaining of bio-polymer dispersed liquid crystal (bio-PDLC) systems based on a chitosan polymer matrix is reported here for the first time. Results and discussions. Five new PDLC composites, named C1–C5, based on chitosan as polymer matrix and 4-cyano-4′-pentylbiphenyl (5CB) as liquid crystal were obtained for the first time, by means of encapsulation, using different weight ratios between the two components (Table 1).
Catalog Number: 150597. Chitosan. A cationic marine polymer derived form the shells of crustaceans (e.g., crabs). MP's chitosan is a partially de-acetylated chitin formed by the reaction of chitin with concentrated alkali. A brief description of chitin will help you understand the nature of chitosan. Chitin is a high molecular weight linear polymer of anhydro-N-acetyl-glucosamine. Chitin occurs in nature as part of the protective coating of some invertebrates
Chitosan is a linear polysaccharide produced by the deacetylation of chitin, a naturally occurring polymer. The effect of the degree of deacetylation on properties such as solubility and antimicrobial activity have been studied in several articles. 
Highlights. ► Polymer dispersed liquid crystal composites based on chitosan polymer matrix were obtained. ► The 4-cyano-4′-pentylbiphenyl liquid crystal droplets have a radial configuration. ► Submicronic droplets were obtained for low content of liquid crystal. Results and discussions. Five new PDLC composites, named C1–C5, based on chitosan as polymer matrix and 4-cyano-4′-pentylbiphenyl (5CB) as liquid crystal were obtained for the first time, by means of encapsulation, using different weight ratios between the two components (Table 1).
Chitosan is polycationic in nature due to which the polymer can be attached to the negatively charged gold nanoparticle surfaces through electrostatic interactions. Using chitosan enables providing enough steric hindrance ensuring colloid stability and functionalizing nanoparticles to be used as sensors. It is either partially or fully deacetylated chitin. As chitin occurs naturally (for example in fungal cell walls and crustacean shells), chitosan is a fully biodegradable and biocompatible natural polymer, and can be used as an adhesive and as an antibacterial and antifungal agent.