Hopi ear candling (also known as Thermal Auricular Therapy) is a gentle non-invasive treatment of the ears that is widely used throughout Europe, Asia and America, to treat a variety of conditions. 
Hopi ear candling, also known as Thermo Auricular Therapy, is an ancient form of therapy practised by many people on a world wide basis. Its name is taken from the Hopi Indians of North Arizona, USA and means ‘peaceful people’. Hopi candling is a very safe therapy and its popularity is growing as more people become aware of its positive benefits. The process of Hopi candling involves a specially designed hollow candle being inserted just inside the ear canal.
Hopi Ear Candles-Treatments and Training Also known as Thermo Auricular Therapy, Hopi Ear Candling is a wonderfully relaxing and beneficial treatment. It can help with many conditions and problems associated with the ear, nose and throat area. 'I wish I had tried this treatment before-it was amazing' - Vyvian, UK. Book a treatment. Hopi Ear Candling-Training Course schedule | Booking Form This popular therapy is now available as an intensive one-day course covers everything you need to know in order for you to safely and professionally conduct a Hopi Ear Candle therapy session.
While it is not the answer to all ear problems, it just might help you. The use of ear candles or thermo-auricular therapy as it is also known was first envisaged by ancient civilizations such as, the Aztecs, Incas, Mayans, Native Americans. It has more recently started to become popular in Europe. Hopi Ear Candle therapy makes use of the simple laws of science. When the candle is inserted into the ear and lit the flame creates a vacuum drawing wax, candida, yeast, and other debris from the ear canal into the hollow candle.
Ear Candling. Thermal Auricular Therapy (also known as Hopi Ear Candles) is a pleasant and non-invasive treatment of the ears, used to treat a variety of conditions. 
Thermal Auricular Therapy (also known as Hopi Ear Candles) is a pleasant and non-invasive treatment of the ears, used to treat a variety of conditions. I use Hopi Candles frequently at my practice in Wolverhampton and Staffordshire, but there are many reputable therapists throughout the country. 
Hopi Ear Candling(Thermo-Auricular Therapy). This now popular therapy was probably used in ancient times for cleansing, purifying and healing on a spiritual level, but today it is known for its more physical benefits in treating ear and sinus problems. The practice is safe, non-invasive and pleasant. As a practitioner of ear candling therapy (thermo-auricular therapy / hopi ear candling, as it is sometimes known) we do not recommend you a therapist if the therapist does not mention what type they, how long the sessions last or explain what contra-indications there are we would advise that you look else where.
Hopi ear candling, also known as Thermo Auricular Therapy, is an ancient form of therapy practised by many people on a world wide basis. Hopi candling is a very safe therapy and its popularity is growing as more people become aware of its positive benefits.
Ear candling, also called ear coning or thermal-auricular therapy, is an alternative medicine practice claimed to improve general health and well-being by lighting one end of a hollow candle and placing the other end in the ear canal. 
Both children and adults are welcome to try this increasingly popular treatment. It is also known Thermal Auricular Therapy and is a pleasant and noninvasive treatment of the ears, it is used to offer real and calming benefits for many problems and conditions associated with the ear, nose and throat areas. The process of Hopi candling involves a specially designed hollow candle being inserted just inside the ear canal. The Hopi candle is then lit and the suction that is formed draws secretion flow is gently stimulated and the vapour collects and removes impurities or deposits. Often referred to as the ‘chimney’ effect.