Columbia University 1996 The federal government of the United States was created by the Constitution, which went into operation in 1789 when the first Congress convened and George Washington took the oath of office as president. In essence, the United States as a nation did not come into existence until the Constitution began to function as the framework of the government. Once the Constitution was in place, tension between the states and the federal government did not automatically cease.
The full name of the republic is United States of America. No other name appears in the Constitution, and this is the name that appears on money, in treaties, and in legal cases to which it is a party (e.g. , Charles T. Schenck v. United States). The terms Government of the United States of America or United States Government are often used in official documents to represent the federal government as distinct from the states collectively.
The government was formed in 1789, making the United States one of the world's first, if not the first, modern national constitutional republics. The United States government is based on the principle of federalism, in which power is shared between the federal government and state governments. , Charles T. Schenck v. United States). The terms Government of the United States of America or United States Government are often used in official documents to represent the federal government as distinct from the states collectively.
Yet the new nation faced problems that demanded a strong federal government. The United States had piled up a huge national debt during the American Revolution. But since the federal government could not collect taxes, it was unable to pay the debt and put the country on a sound economic footing. Spain was a weak nation, and did not pose a threat to the United States. But France--then ruled by Napoleon Bonaparte--was powerful and aggressive. Jefferson viewed French control of Louisiana as a danger
The government of the United States of America is the federal government of the republic of fifty states that constitute the United States, as well as one capital district, and several other territories. , Charles T. Schenck v. United States). The terms Government of the United States of America or United States Government are often used in official documents to represent the federal government as distinct from the states collectively.
The date of the start of the history of the United States is a subject of constant debate among historians. Older textbooks start with the arrival of Christopher Columbus in 1492 and emphasize the European background, or they start around 1600 and emphasize the American frontier. With Washington as the Union's first president and Alexander Hamilton his chief political and financial adviser, a strong central government was created. When Thomas Jefferson became president he purchased the Louisiana Territory from France, doubling the size of the United States.
New territory. The United States gained two new pieces of territory between 1815 and 1820. In 1818, a treaty with Britain gave the country the Red River Basin, north of the Louisiana Territory. Spain ceded Florida to the United States in 1819. Spain was a weak nation, and did not pose a threat to the United States. But France--then ruled by Napoleon Bonaparte--was powerful and aggressive. Jefferson viewed French control of Louisiana as a danger
The U.S. Constitution established America’s national government and fundamental laws, and guaranteed certain basic rights for its citizens. It was signed on September 17, 1787, by delegates to the Constitutional Convention in Philadelphia, presided over by George Washington. In 1789, Madison, then a member of the newly established U.S. House of Representatives, introduced 19 amendments to the Constitution. On September 25, 1789, Congress adopted 12 of the amendments and sent them to the states for ratification.
A republic (from Latin: res publica) is a form of government or country in which power resides in elected individuals representing the citizen body and government leaders exercise power according to the rule of law. The term politeia can be translated as form of government, polity, or regime, and is therefore not always a word for a specific type of regime as the modern word republic is. (One of Plato 's major works on political science was titled Politeia and in English it is thus known as The Republic.