Most other workers usethe asymmetry factor (A s)where a and b are measured at 10% of the peak height. If a b, bothmeasurements yield a value of 1.0 — thevalue for a non-tailing peak.For values of less than approximately 2,A s and T f values are roughly the same, as isshown in Table 1. For all the peaksshown, the start of the peak is the same,and it is easy for the data system todetermine when the peak starts. The morethe peak tails, the more gradual the returnto baseline. In addition, the end of thepeak is difficult to determine, especially ifthe baseline is not smooth.
If the datasystem uses tick marks to indicate the startand end of the peak, it is likely that theend of the peak would be shown indifferent places for multiple injections ofthe same tailing peak. This results in anerror in the area measurement. For all the peaksshown, the start of the peak is the same,and it is easy for the data system todetermine when the peak starts. The morethe peak tails, the more gradual the returnto baseline. In addition, the end of thepeak is difficult to determine, especially ifthe baseline is not smooth.
Peak tailing is often measured bythe peak asymmetry factor (A s):where a is the width of the front half ofthe peak, and b is the width of the backhalf of the peak measured at 10% of thepeak height from the leading or trailingedge of the peak to a line droppedperpendicularly from the peak apex. From a practical standpoint, it ismuch easier to measure the peak width athalf the peak height. The resolutionequation using the half-height method iswhere w 0.5,1 and w 0.5,2 are the peakwidths measured at half height.
Two of the analytical issues as a result of peak tailing are: 1  Peaks with a large A s value might have a significantly reduced peak height. 2  Data analysis systems might not accurately assign the end of a peak, so the peak area is mis-calculated. Consequently, if tailing is quantified, it is possible to place an acceptable limit on the amount a peak can tail. There are two main methods for defining peak tailing: 1  Tailing factor (Tf) – widely used in the pharmaceutical industry.
Quantifying Peak Tailing. It is very difficult to remove all of the tailing from a peak, even for new columns. The quality of separation and the analytical data can be affected by tailing. Consequently, if tailing is quantified, it is possible to place an acceptable limit on the amount a peak can tail. There are two main methods for defining peak tailing: 1  Tailing factor (Tf) – widely used in the pharmaceutical industry.
Definition: Tailing factor. The tailing factor is a measure of peak tailing. It is defined as the distance from the front slope of the peak to the back slope divided by twice the distance from the center line of the peak to the front slope, with all measurements made at 5% of the maximum peak height.
Peak Problems. Two of the analytical issues as a result of peak tailing are: 1  Peaks with a large A s value might have a significantly reduced peak height. 2  This affects the analysis when wide ranges of different concentrations of chemicals are being detected. Consequently, if tailing is quantified, it is possible to place an acceptable limit on the amount a peak can tail. There are two main methods for defining peak tailing: 1  Tailing factor (Tf) – widely used in the pharmaceutical industry.
3 LC•GC Europe September 2003 LC Troubleshooting Tailing peaks are also problematic ifminor peaks occur in the same sample asmajor ones; for example, during a stability-indicating assay or a measurement ofmetabolites or impurities. For all the peaksshown, the start of the peak is the same,and it is easy for the data system todetermine when the peak starts. The morethe peak tails, the more gradual the returnto baseline. In addition, the end of thepeak is difficult to determine, especially ifthe baseline is not smooth.
It is easyto see that a minor peak could hide underthe peak tail and that ICH requirements forminor peaks might not be met if severepeak tailing occurred.LC methods used for routine analysismust usually provide baseline resolution of all the peaks and run times that are asshort as possible. For all the peaksshown, the start of the peak is the same,and it is easy for the data system todetermine when the peak starts. The morethe peak tails, the more gradual the returnto baseline. In addition, the end of thepeak is difficult to determine, especially ifthe baseline is not smooth.