When the coronary arteries narrow to the point that blood flow to the heart muscle is limited (coronary artery disease), collateral vessels may enlarge and become active. Two major coronary arteries branch off from the aorta near the point where the aorta and the left ventricle meet. These arteries and their branches supply all parts of the heart muscle with blood.
Blood vessels also play a role in controlling your blood pressure. Blood vessels are found throughout the body. There are five main types of blood vessels: arteries, arterioles, capillaries, venules and veins. Arteries carry blood away from the heart to other organs. Groups of capillaries within a tissue reunite to form small veins called venules. Venules collect blood from capillaries and drain into veins. Veins are the blood vessels that carry blood back to the heart.
Arteries (from Greek ἀρτηρία (artēria) , meaning windpipe, artery) are blood vessels that carry blood away from the heart. While most arteries carry oxygenated blood, there are two exceptions to this, the pulmonary and the umbilical arteries. After travelling from the aorta, blood travels through peripheral arteries into smaller arteries called arterioles, and eventually to capillaries. Arterioles help in regulating blood pressure by the variable contraction of the smooth muscle of their walls, and deliver blood to the
The largest artery is the aorta, the main high-pressure pipeline connected to the heart's left ventricle. The aorta branches into a network of smaller arteries that extend throughout the body. The arteries' smaller branches are called arterioles and capillaries. The pulmonary arteries carry oxygen-poor blood from the heart to the lungs under low pressure, making these arteries unique. 1 Coronary artery disease makes a heart attack more likely. 2  Carotid artery disease: Atherosclerosis with narrowing of one or both of the carotid arteries in the neck. 3  Disease of the carotid arteries makes stroke
1 Coronary artery disease: Atherosclerosis with narrowing of the arteries supplying blood to the heart muscle. 2  Coronary artery disease makes a heart attack more likely. 3  Carotid artery disease: Atherosclerosis with narrowing of one or both of the carotid arteries in the neck. 1 Coronary artery disease makes a heart attack more likely. 2  Carotid artery disease: Atherosclerosis with narrowing of one or both of the carotid arteries in the neck. 3  Disease of the carotid arteries makes stroke
The right coronary artery supplies blood to the right ventricle, the right atrium, and the SA (sinoatrial) and AV (atrioventricular) nodes, which regular the heart rhythm. The right coronary artery divides into smaller branches, including the right posterior descending artery and the acute marginal artery. The two main coronary arteries are the left main and right coronary arteries. Left main coronary artery (LMCA). The left main coronary artery supplies blood to the left side of the heart muscle (the left ventricle and left atrium). The left main coronary divides into branches:
Capillaries. Capillaries, the smallest and most numerous of the blood vessels, form the connection between the vessels that carry blood away from the heart (arteries) and the vessels that return blood to the heart (veins). The primary function of capillaries is the exchange of materials between the blood and tissue cells. 
Coronary microvascular disease (MVD) is heart disease that affects the tiny coronary (heart) arteries. In coronary MVD, the walls of the heart's tiny arteries are damaged or diseased. Coronary MVD is different from traditional coronary heart disease (CHD), also called coronary artery disease. In CHD, a waxy substance called plaque (plak) builds up in the large coronary arteries. Plaque narrows the heart's large arteries and reduces the flow of oxygen-rich blood to your heart muscle. The buildup of plaque also makes it more likely that blood clots will form in your arteries. Blood clots can mostly or completely block blood flow through a coronary artery. 
Small vessel disease, which is also called coronary microvascular disease, is a disease that affects the small arteries in the heart. These small arteries normally expand to provide extra blood to your heart when you are exercising or exerting yourself. They contract when you are at rest. Small vessel disease is not the same as coronary artery disease. Coronary artery disease affects the large arteries in the heart. These large arteries are responsible for carrying oxygen-rich blood to your heart all the time.