Bidets are personal hygienic devices. As such, bidets which have been installed and/or used cannot be returned. However-some bidets come with a 30 Day Trial and of course those seats can be returned for any reason, used or not. You can learn more about our 30 Day Trial here. Yes, you will need to plug the bidet seat to a nearby electrical outlet. Like most power cords in the U.S., the power cord of your bidet seat has two flat pins, with one round pin at the bottom. The bidet toilet seat is compatible with any standard 120V outlet.
A bidet may also be a nozzle attached to an existing toilet, or a part of the toilet itself. In this case, its use is restricted to cleaning the anus and genitals. In northern Europe (with the exception of Finland), bidets are rare. They are also common in the Middle East, in countries such as Armenia, Iran, Iraq, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, the UAE, Turkey, Lebanon, Palestine, Syria, and Jordan.
A bidet is not a strangely named and plumbed toilet! If you have a bidet, you still use the toilet for all the conventional purposes! No, a bowel movement probably would not go down the drain of a bidet, not without quite a bit of unpleasant assistance by the operator or some poor person who came along later. A bidet is a specialized device to be used only for cleaning your genitals and anal region! Sorry to be all blunt and clinical, but this is rather important. For the sake of all employees at traditional European hotels, do not use the bidet inappropriately!
Activate a toilet seat bidet. Look for the “Wash” button on the bidet’s remote control, which is usually mounted on the wall next to the toilet. You may also find the button on the toilet itself. A nozzle will appear beneath you and rinse your nether regions with a stream of water. In this latter case, you'll need to use your hands to manually clean yourself. 3. Clean your rear and/or your genitals. If you're using a bidet with a jet, then you can mostly let the force of the water do its work. If you're using a basin, then you'll need to get your hands dirty. Either way, you might consider using your wet hands to scrub the area clean more quickly
2. Find the bidet. Sometimes, the bidet is located near the toilet, attached to the wall: it looks something like a low sink or a toilet with a faucet. However, many modern bidets are built into the toilet seat, so you don't need to get up to straddle another fixture. In this latter case, you'll need to use your hands to manually clean yourself. 3. Clean your rear and/or your genitals. If you're using a bidet with a jet, then you can mostly let the force of the water do its work. If you're using a basin, then you'll need to get your hands dirty. Either way, you might consider using your wet hands to scrub the area clean more quickly
Bidets are primarily used to wash and clean the genitalia, perineum, inner buttocks, and anus. Traditional designs may also be used to clean any other part of the human body, such as the feet. Despite appearing similar to a toilet, a traditional bidet may be more accurately compared to a washbasin or bathtub. In northern Europe (with the exception of Finland), bidets are rare. They are also common in the Middle East, in countries such as Armenia, Iran, Iraq, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, the UAE, Turkey, Lebanon, Palestine, Syria, and Jordan.
A bidet (US /bɨˈdeɪ/ or UK /ˈbiːdeɪ/) is a plumbing fixture or type of sink intended for washing the  private parts  of the human body, and is typically installed in a bathroom. In northern Europe (with the exception of Finland), bidets are rare. They are also common in the Middle East, in countries such as Armenia, Iran, Iraq, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, the UAE, Turkey, Lebanon, Palestine, Syria, and Jordan.