Inoculation is the act or process of introducing something to where it will grow or reproduce. It is most commonly used in respect of the introduction of a serum, vaccine, or antigenic substance into the body of a human or animal, especially to produce or boost immunity to a particular disease. Inoculation. Definition. noun, plural: inoculations. (immunology). The process of introducing an antigenic substance or vaccine into the body to trigger immune response against a specific disease. (microbiology). The act of introducing microorganism or suspension of microorganisms (e.g. bacteria) into a culture medium
An inoculation loop, also called a smear loop, inoculation wand or microstreaker, is a simple tool used mainly by microbiologists to retrieve an inoculum from a culture of microorganisms. The loop is used in the cultivation of microbes on plates by transferring inoculum for streaking. 
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: inoculation (Noun). The introduction of an antigenic substance or vaccine into the body to produce immunity to a specific disease. inoculation (Noun). The introduction of a microorganism into a culture medium. inoculation (Noun). An inoculum, what is inoculated. Inoculation. Inoculation is the placement of something that will grow or reproduce, and is most commonly used in respect of the introduction of a serum, vaccine, or antigenic substance into the body of a human or animal, especially to produce or boost immunity to a specific disease.
What is Inoculation and Culturing? In microbiology, inoculation is the process where a microbe of interest is introduced into a previously sterilized growth medium for the purpose of growing a microbe in the laboratory and getting a pure culture of it. Culturing is a process of growing microorganisms in a culture medium for study. 
Inoculum. Definition. noun, plural. (1) Cells used in an inoculation, such as cells added to start a culture. (2) A biological material (like a virus or toxin or immune serum) that is injected into a human to induce or increase immunity to a particular disease. Supplement. Word origin: New Latin, from Latin inoculāre, to graft a scion. Synonym: inoculant
Medical Definition of INOCULATION. 1. : the act or process or an instance of inoculating: as a: the introduction of a microorganism into a medium suitable for its growth b (1) : the introduction of a pathogen or antigen into a living organism to stimulate the production of antibodies. 2. : inoculum. Definition of INOCULATION. 1. : the act or process or an instance of inoculating; especially: the introduction of a pathogen or antigen into a living organism to stimulate the production of antibodies. 2. : inoculum. See inoculation defined for kids.
Microbiological Inoculation. According to microbiologists, to inoculate means simply to introduce -- or insert -- one substance into another. For example, you could inoculate a bacteria culture with a certain chemical compound -- in other words, you introduce the chemical compound into the bacteria culture. This holds true for vaccinations. If the doctor inoculates you for polio, he introduces a weakened form of polio into your system via injection.