The pancreas is a gland that sits behind your stomach in the upper abdomen and helps with digestion. It produces enzymes that are secreted into the small intestine, digesting protein, fat, and carbohydrates. The pancreas also produces insulin to help regulate blood sugar (glucose), the body's main source of energy.
The endocrine component of the pancreas consists of islet cells that create and release important hormones directly into the bloodstream. Two of the main pancreatic hormones are insulin, which acts to lower blood sugar, and glucagon, which acts to raise blood sugar.
The islets of Langerhans are the endocrine (endo= within) cells of the pancreas that produce and secrete hormones such as insulin and glucagon into the bloodstream. The pancreatic hormones, insulin and glucagon, work together to maintain the proper level of sugar (glucose) in the blood.
When your blood sugar levels rise after a meal your pancreas releases insulin. Insulin allows glucose to be taken into the cells of your body where it is used in cellular respiration. It also allows soluble glucose to be converted to an insoluble carbohydrate called glycogen which is stored in the liver and muscles.
Cells in the pancreas make enzymes which help with digestion-but other pancreatic cells (known as the Islets of Langerhans) make the hormones which control your blood glucose levels too. When your blood sugar levels fall below the ideal level your pancreas releases a different hormone called glucagon.
Blood sugar levels. Your pancreas produces insulin and glucagon, two hormones that regulate sugar levels in your blood. Insulin and glucagon are secreted from your pancreas directly into your blood. When the concentration of glucose (a sugar) rises in your blood, insulin is released. Insulin lowers blood glucose levels by stimulating cells throughout your body to use and store glucose. Glucagon has the opposite effect of insulin.
The endocrine portion of the pancreas, or islets of Langerhans, is composed of several cells that secrete hormones directly into the bloodstream. Insulin is a hormone secreted by pancreatic beta cells in response to a rise in blood sugar.