URL stands for Uniform Resource Locator, and is used to specify addresses on the World Wide Web. A URL is the fundamental network identification for any resource connected to the web (e.g., hypertext pages, images, and sound files). URLs have the following format: For example, the URL for Indiana University's home page is: The protocol specifies how information from the link is transferred. The protocol used for web resources is HyperText Transfer Protocol (HTTP). Other protocols compatible with most web browsers include HTTPS, FTP, telnet, newsgroups, and Gopher
Noun. 1. URL-the address of a web page on the world wide web. uniform resource locator, universal resource locator. address, computer address, reference - (computer science) the code that identifies where a piece of information is stored. Translations. 
Short for uniform resource locator, a URL identifies specific pages on the Internet. To find the URL of the page you're currently reading, just check the address bar at the top of your browser. 
A URL (Uniform Resource Locator, previously Universal Resource Locator) - usually pronounced by sounding out each letter but, in some quarters, pronounced Earl - is the unique address for a file that is accessible on the Internet. 
Definition: URL stands for Uniform Resource Locator. A URL is a formatted text string used by Web browsers, email clients and other software to identify a network resource on the Internet. Network resources are files that can be plain Web pages, other text documents, graphics, or programs. 
A URL is a URI. A URL is one type of Uniform Resource Identifier (URI); the generic term for all types of names and addresses that refer to objects on the World Wide Web. The term Web address is a synonym for a URL that uses the HTTP or HTTPS protocol. The Uniform Resource Locator (URL) was developed by Tim Berners-Lee in 1994 and the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) URI working group.
Parts of a URL. The first part of the URL is called a protocol identifier and it indicates what protocol to use, and the second part is called a resource name and it specifies the IP address or the domain name where the resource is located. The term Web address is a synonym for a URL that uses the HTTP or HTTPS protocol. The Uniform Resource Locator (URL) was developed by Tim Berners-Lee in 1994 and the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) URI working group.
URL. A URL (Uniform Resource Locator) is a form of URI and is a standardized naming convention for addressing documents accessible over the Internet or Intranet. An example of a URL is http://www.computerhope.com, which is the URL for the Computer Hope website. Overview of a URL. Below is additional information about each of the sections of the http URL for this page. The http:// stands for HyperText Transfer Protocol and enables the browser to know what protocol it is going to use to access the information specified in the domain.
In the URL shown previously, java.sun.com is the hostname and the trailing slash ' / ' is short-hand for the file named /index.html. protocolID:resourceName. java.net.URL. Definition: URL is an acronym that stands for Uniform Resource Locator and is a reference (an address) to a resource on the Internet. It's often easiest (though not entirely accurate) to think of a URL as the name of a file on the network because most URLs refer to a file on some machine on the network. However, you should remember that URLs can point to other resources on the network such as database queries and command output. 