There are nearly two dozen brands of pills that can be used for emergency contraception in the United States today. Several products are specifically approved and marketed here as emergency contraceptive pills: 1 If you don’t get your period by the time you expect it, you might consider getting a pregnancy test. 2  Start using a regular birth control method you think you’ll be able to use every time you have sex because that will be more effective than relying only on emergency contraception.
Apri. Apri is a generic form of the birth control pill known as Desogen. This pill is only available with a prescription and has a relatively low dose of hormones in it as compared to other birth control pills. The FDA has awarded Apri an AB rating, which means that it is the equivalent of Desogen. Other names for generic Desogen include Reclipsen and Solia. Kariva. The generic form of Mircette is known as Kariva. Kariva has a low dose of hormones as compared to older birth control pills. In addition, the FDA has awarded Kariva an AB rating, which means that it is just as good as the name brand Mircette.
Mircette ® (desogestrel/ethinyl estradiol) is a prescription contraceptive product. It is one of the many oral contraceptives (birth control pills) available. Kariva is made by Barr Pharmaceuticals, the parent company of Duramed Pharmaceuticals (the company that makes brand-name Mircette). Both Duramed and Barr have been acquired by Teva Pharmaceuticals, USA. Azurette is made by Watson Laboratories, Inc. Pimtrea is made by Novast Laboratories, Ltd., for Northstar Rx LLC
You can also use a different dose of a number of brands of regular birth control pills. While these are not sold specifically as emergency contraceptive pills, they have been proven safe and effective for preventing pregnancy in the few days after sex. 1 If you don’t get your period by the time you expect it, you might consider getting a pregnancy test. 2  Start using a regular birth control method you think you’ll be able to use every time you have sex because that will be more effective than relying only on emergency contraception.
Mircette is made by Duramed Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a division of Barr Pharmaceuticals. Generic Mircette is available, although it is sold under what looks like brand names, rather than the usual generic name. Kariva is made by Barr Pharmaceuticals, the parent company of Duramed Pharmaceuticals (the company that makes brand-name Mircette). Both Duramed and Barr have been acquired by Teva Pharmaceuticals, USA. Azurette is made by Watson Laboratories, Inc. Pimtrea is made by Novast Laboratories, Ltd., for Northstar Rx LLC
Oral contraceptives come in a variety of formulations. The main division is between combined oral contraceptive pills, containing both synthetic estrogens and progestogens (progestins), and progestogen only pills (mini-pills). Combined oral contraceptive pills also come in varying types, including varying doses of estrogen, and whether the dose of estrogen or progestogen changes from week to week.
The table below lists all of the brands of oral contraception available in the U.S. which you can use to prevent pregnancy in the few days after sex. For information about how to use a specific pill as an emergency contraceptive, click on the brand name in the table. 1 If you don’t get your period by the time you expect it, you might consider getting a pregnancy test. 2  Start using a regular birth control method you think you’ll be able to use every time you have sex because that will be more effective than relying only on emergency contraception.
The generic version is sold under the names Amethia and Camrese. Advertisement. Seasonique ™ (levonorgestrel/ethinyl estradiol) is a prescription contraceptive product. It is one of the many oral contraceptives (birth control pills) available. 
There are four generic versions of Mircette. Advertisement. Mircette ® (desogestrel/ethinyl estradiol) is a prescription contraceptive product. It is one of the many oral contraceptives (birth control pills) available. Compared to older birth control pills, Mircette contains a relatively low dose of hormones. Kariva is made by Barr Pharmaceuticals, the parent company of Duramed Pharmaceuticals (the company that makes brand-name Mircette). Both Duramed and Barr have been acquired by Teva Pharmaceuticals, USA. Azurette is made by Watson Laboratories, Inc. Pimtrea is made by Novast Laboratories, Ltd., for Northstar Rx LLC