Culture is the characteristics and knowledge of a particular group of people, defined by everything from language, religion, cuisine, social habits, music and arts. 
The word culture is often used as a synonym for nation and society, but they aren't the same thing. A nation is a territory with designated borders. A society is a population in which people interact and share common interests. Culture, on the other hand, is a people's shared way of living. The word culture is often used as a synonym for nation and society, but they aren't the same thing. A nation is a territory with designated borders. A nation can be found on a map
Contemporary sociologists' approach to culture is often divided between a sociology of culture and cultural sociology - the terms are similar, though not interchangeable. The sociology of culture is an older concept, and considers some topics and objects as more-or-less cultural than others. While, cultural sociology sees all, or most, social phenomena as inherently cultural at some level. In terms of analysis, sociology of culture often attempts to explain some discretely cultural phenomena as a product of social processes, while cultural sociology sees culture as a component of explanations of social phenomena.
Abstract: The concept of culture is among the most widely used notions in sociology. Normally, one can presume culture to be equivalent to higher things of the mind such as art, literature, music and painting. However, in the perspective of sociologist it goes beyond such activities. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The sociology of culture and, the related, cultural sociology concerns the systematic analysis of culture, usually understood as the ensemble of symbolic codes used by a members of a society, as it is manifested in the society. In terms of analysis, sociology of culture often attempts to explain some discretely cultural phenomena as a product of social processes, while cultural sociology sees culture as a component of explanations of social phenomena.
Share. By Ashley Crossman. Definition: Popular culture is the accumulated store of cultural products such as music, art, literature, fashion, dance, film, television, and radio that are consumed primarily by non-elite groups such as the working, lower, and middle class. There are two opposing sociological arguments in relation to popular culture. 
When used as a count noun a culture, is the set of customs, traditions and values of a society or community, such as an ethnic group or nation. As a defining aspect of what it means to be human, culture is a central concept in anthropology, encompassing the range of phenomena that are transmitted through social learning in human societies.
(noun) The attitudes, behavior, beliefs, customs, habits, language, and values that are characteristic of a group, society, or organization in a particular place and time, the accumulated knowledge of which is passed to the next generation through socialization. Example: The culture of a nonprofit that promotes community activism as a method of curbing violence against women. Audio Pronunciation: (cul·ture). Download Audio Audio Pronunciation: culture.mp3. Usage Notes: 1  Plural: cultures. 2  Culture is either nonmaterial (e.g., language) or material (e.g., pottery).
CARLA’s Definition. For the purposes of the Intercultural Studies Project, culture is defined as the shared patterns of behaviors and interactions, cognitive constructs, and affective understanding that are learned through a process of socialization. 