A word that can be used to refer to a person or place or thing. Classified under: Nouns denoting communicative processes and contents. Hypernyms (noun is a kind of...): content word; open-class word (a word to which an independent meaning can be assigned). substantive (a noun or a pronoun that is used in place of a noun). Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of noun): collective noun (a noun that is singular in form but refers to a group of people or things). mass noun (a noun that does not form plurals). count noun (a noun that forms plurals). generic noun (a noun that does not specify either masculine or feminine gender).
A noun is traditionally defined as the part of speech (or word class) that names or identifies a person, place, thing, quality, or activity. Adjective: nominal. Most nouns have both a singular and plural form, can be preceded by an article and/or one or more adjectives, and can serve as the head of a noun phrase. 
A noun (from Latin nōmen, literally meaning name) is a word that functions as the name of some specific thing or set of things, such as living creatures, objects, places, actions, qualities, states of existence, or ideas. A noun can co-occur with an article or an attributive adjective. Verbs and adjectives can't. In the following, an asterisk (*) in front of an example means that this example is ungrammatical.
noun-the word class that can serve as the subject or object of a verb, the object of a preposition, or in apposition. collective noun-a noun that is singular in form but refers to a group of people or things. mass noun-a noun that does not form plurals. count noun-a noun that forms plurals. noun-the word class that can serve as the subject or object of a verb, the object of a preposition, or in apposition. major form class-any of the major parts of speech of traditional grammar. noun-a content word that can be used to refer to a person, place, thing, quality, or action. content word, open-class word-a word to which an independent meaning can be assigned. substantive-any word or group of words functioning as a noun
• NOUN (noun). The noun NOUN has 2 senses: 1. a word that can be used to refer to a person or place or thing. 2. a word that can serve as the subject or object of a verb. Familiarity information: NOUN used as a noun is rare. Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of noun): collective noun (a noun that is singular in form but refers to a group of people or things). mass noun (a noun that does not form plurals). count noun (a noun that forms plurals). generic noun (a noun that does not specify either masculine or feminine gender).
Noun. Nouns are a part of speech typically denoting a person, place, thing, animal or idea. In linguistics, a noun is a member of a large, open lexical category whose members can occur as the main word in the subject of a clause, the object of a verb, or the object of a preposition. Wiktionary (1.00 / 1 vote) Rate this definition: noun (Noun). A word that can be used to refer to a person, animal, place, thing, phenomenon, substance, quality, or idea; one of the basic parts of speech in many languages, including English. noun (Verb). To convert a word to a noun.
Definition: In both English and Spanish, a noun is a word that refers to and names a person, place, thing, concept, entity or action. Grammatically, a noun can serve as the subject of a sentence or the object of a verb or preposition. A noun can also be described by adjectives or replaced by a pronoun. 
The word woman is a noun. The word woman is a noun. The definition of a noun is a part of speech that names a person, place, thing, action or quality. 1  An example of noun is a woman. 2  An example of noun is the city Paris. 3  An example of noun is a table. 4  An example of noun is the act of walking. 5  An example of noun is the word perfection. Abbr. n. noun. 1  The part of speech that is used to name a person, place, thing, quality, or action and can function as the subject or object of a verb, the object of a preposition, or an appositive. 2  Any of the words belonging to this part of speech, such as neighbor, window, happiness, or negotiation.