Report Abuse. Inhalents are medications or drugs adimistered through the lings. Stimulants, Depressants, and Hallucinogens affect the nervous system. They can give a person a Euphoria, make the person hallucinate, and act really weird. An overdose on a stimulant can make your body go TOO fast, and can result in a heart attack. Depressants do the opposite of stimulants-they slow the body down. Alcohol and marjiuana are two classic depressants. They dull your responses, your mental processes, and your emotions. That is why alcohol is so easy to abuse-it dulls your emotions, so if you are in pain, you drink enough and the pain is numbe
Nitrites do not act directly on the central nervous system like most other inhalants; they primarily act to dilate blood vessels and relax the muscles. The two most commonly abused nitrites are amyl and butyl nitrite. Physical Effects. The effects of inhalant abuse resemble those of alcohol intoxication. When these chemical vapors are inhaled, the body becomes starved of oxygen, forcing the heart to beat more rapidly in order to increase blood flow to the brain.
High-dose exposure to inhalants causes intoxication with effects similar to depressants. However, abuse of inhalants, especially of volatile solvents, can have very severe effects, including organ damage, neurological damage, and death by suffocation. Most abusers of inhalants are young teens. Products that can be abused by inhalation include readily available items like gasoline, glue, paint, lighter fluid, spray cans, nail polish, and correction fluid. Gamma hydroxybutyric acid, known as GHB, is another central nervous system depressant.
Examples of depressants are alcohol, marijuana, inhalants and prescription drugs. The prescription drugs that affect the central nervous system are also referred to as downers, sedatives, hypnotics, minor tranquilizers, and anxiolytics or anti-anxiety medications. An overdose on a stimulant can make your body go TOO fast, and can result in a heart attack. Depressants do the opposite of stimulants-they slow the body down. Alcohol and marjiuana are two classic depressants. They dull your responses, your mental processes, and your emotions. That is why alcohol is so easy to abuse-it dulls your emotions, so if you are in pain, you drink enough and the pain is numbed
Profile. Inhalants are chemical vapors that, when inhaled, cut off the brain's supply of oxygen, producing psychoactive (mind-altering) effects. These effects can greatly vary; some have depressant effects while others can be stimulants. Inhalants fall into the following four categories: 1. Physical Effects. The effects of inhalant abuse resemble those of alcohol intoxication. When these chemical vapors are inhaled, the body becomes starved of oxygen, forcing the heart to beat more rapidly in order to increase blood flow to the brain.
Inhalants usually encompass volatile substances, many found around the home or office, that give off fumes or vapours at room temperature. Others are industrial. The four main categories of inhalants are. 1  Volatile solvents – glue, petrol. (Desired Side Effects). 1  Volatile Solvents and Aerosols – the intoxication is similar to that from alcohol except it is achieved faster (between 1 and 5 minutes) and recovery is faster also (usually no longer then 60 minutes).
What are stimulants? As the name suggests, stimulants increase alertness, attention, and energy, as well as elevate blood pressure, heart rate, and respiration. Stimulants historically were used to treat asthma and other respiratory problems, obesity, neurological disorders, and a variety of other ailments. 
Husband. Father. Physician. Neither, inhalants, such as hydrocarbons (gas, spray paint, etc) are considered asphyxiants, meaning that when inhaled, they take the place of oxygen in the air and deprive your brain of oxygen, which causes the lightheadedness many people claim to experience. Psilocybin is mostly a stimulant but it can also act as a  depressant. It stimulates parts of the brain, producing its  hallucinogenic effects. Psilocybin also stimulates st … retch reflex  (resist relaxing muscles), increases heart rate in many cases, and  dilates pupils, but it is inconsistent.
unit 4b: DEpressants and Inhalants. Summary of Chapter 7 Information. Depressant drugs including the barbiturates, benzodiazepines, and inhalants have many effects in common with each other and with alcohol. As a group, they reduce the functioning of the central nervous system. At low doses, they may be prescribed as sedatives for daytime use to reduce anxiety. Most abusers of inhalants are young teens. Products that can be abused by inhalation include readily available items like gasoline, glue, paint, lighter fluid, spray cans, nail polish, and correction fluid. Gamma hydroxybutyric acid, known as GHB, is another central nervous system depressant.