Without question low and slow is best for pork shoulder roasts. Roasting the meat to at least an internal temp of 180 degrees is critical. Once this temp is reached, remove the roast from the oven, cover loosely with foil and rest until the in the internal temp reaches at least 190 degrees. They say to cook until 190F because that's the temperature at which the stuff that actually makes your slow-roasted pork moist, the collagen, fat, etc. is breaking down and coating the meat.
1 Close the hood of the grill and allow the roast to finish cooking using the indirect heat of the grill. 2  Cook until internal temperature reaches 140°F. Then remove the roast from the grill and allow it to stand for 15 minutes before carving. 3  During this time the temperature should rise to 145°F for proper doneness. 
If you want to cook the pork butt in an oven, cook it at 400 degrees F for 1/2 hour then 250 degrees F for 6 1/2 hours or until the internal temperature is 190 degrees F. If using the in-oven thermometer, stick the probe in so the tip is near the center of the meat. Add 1/2 cup water to pan (it will initially smoke alot) and scrape up the nice brown bits (fond) then pour over pork butt. Cook pork butt mixture on low until the internal temperature is 190 degrees F (about 8 hours) - it is much easier to shred.
If you drop the cooking temperature low enough, you should be able to let the ribs cook for 7-8 hours. At 225f or 250f, I would be worried about coming home to a mushy mess, but at 200f it should be about right. 
Low-temperature cooking is a cooking technique using temperatures of 45 to 85 °C (113 to 185 °F) for a prolonged time to cook food. Low-temperature cooking has been used for a long time; evidence of its use can be found in indigenous cultures. Samoans and Tongans slow-cook meat in large pits for celebrations and ceremonies.
That could be pork’s new slogan after the United States Department of Agriculture on Tuesday said it was lowering its safe cooking temperature to 145 degrees, from the longtime standard of 160. The new recommendation is in line with what many cookbook authors and chefs have been saying for years. A version of this article appears in print on May 25, 2011, on page D3 of the New York edition with the headline: Cooking Temperature For Pork Is Lowered.
Since the roast may cook unevenly, take temperature readings from a couple of locations, each time plunging thermometer to center of the meat and waiting 15 seconds. Let the roast stand at room temperature, uncovered. for 15 to 20 minutes to finish cooking. A definite part of the secret is NOT TO OVERCOOK the pork. Despite all the old time advice to cook pork to high temperatures, you will be happier (and safe) at the temperatures given. If you want to marinate the roast, start 30 minutes to several hours in advance.
160 degrees Fahrenheit. In a 350 degree oven you can achieve this at approx. 30 minutes per pound. Remove the roast when it reaches 155 degrees as it will carry-on cooking to … an internal temperature of 160 degrees out of the oven. A definite part of the secret is NOT TO OVERCOOK the pork. Despite all the old time advice to cook pork to high temperatures, you will be happier (and safe) at the temperatures given. If you want to marinate the roast, start 30 minutes to several hours in advance.
LOW OVEN Just like in a pot roast, cooking the pork low and slow (325 degrees for 5 to 6 hours) pushes the meat well beyond its “done” mark into the 190-degree range, encouraging intramuscular fat to melt, collagen to break down and tenderize the meat, and the fat cap to render and crisp. They say to cook until 190F because that's the temperature at which the stuff that actually makes your slow-roasted pork moist, the collagen, fat, etc. is breaking down and coating the meat.
1 When the internal temperature reaches 195°F (approximately 90°C), the pork is ready. 2  Cooking the meat beyond the USDA guideline of 160°F (70°C) renders out the fat and tenderizes the meat. 3  Remove the meat from the smoker, and let it cool for 15 to 30 minutes. 1 Place meat back on the smoker, and cook for two hours more. 2  Using an instant-read meat thermometer, check the internal temperature of the thickest part of the meat, being careful not to touch bone with the tip of the thermometer. 3 