For example, taking high doses of iron supplements can lead to nausea and vomiting, but sometimes these side effects can be avoided by taking smaller doses a few times a day. Vitamin C may cause nausea, vomiting, stomach cramps and headache, but these symptoms are less likely with low doses. Other nutrients that may cause nausea or an upset stomach include niacin (vitamin B3), vitamin A and vitamin D. Talk to your doctor.
Side Effects of Vitamin B Complex. Side effects of taking a B vitamin complex are not common, especially if the patient takes the medication as prescribed amount. Taking excessive amounts of a vitamin B complex can cause side effects. An overdose is signaled by: dizziness, frequent urination, change in the color of the urine, black stools, constipation, diarrhea, abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, redness of the skin and itching. 
Medicines That Can Cause Headache. Many prescription and nonprescription medicines and supplements can cause headaches. A few examples are: 1  Medicines that contain hormones, such as birth control pills and hormone therapy for menopause. 2  Medicines for erection problems. 3  Caffeine (because of caffeine withdrawal). 4  Some heart and blood pressure medicines. Medicines that can cause rebound headaches include: 1  Nonprescription medicines, such as acetaminophen, aspirin, or nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). 2  Prescription pain medicines, such as codeine or hydrocodone.
Headaches may be triggered by consuming foods such as cheese or chocolate. Depression and anxiety can also cause headaches. Constant headaches can be a sign of a serious problem or a side effect of nutrition supplements or medications. Vitamin Overdose. Overdosing on vitamins including B vitamins, vitamin D, vitamin A, and vitamin E may cause headaches. Overdosing on vitamins may have other serious symptoms in addition to headaches. For pregnant women, high dosages of vitamin C can cause scurvy in newborn children. High dosages of vitamin D may cause physical and mental retardation in newbor
Side Effects. The most common side effects of taking multivitamins are nausea and headaches. Headaches associated with vitamin or mineral usage should not be severe, unless too many have been taken. Considerations. If you are taking multivitamins or multivitamin supplements that contain minerals, and you develop headaches, speak to your pharmacist about other brands you can take. If you continue to have headaches after taking your multivitamins, consult with your physician.
Low vitamin B-12 can result in symptoms like dizziness and headaches. Low vitamin B-12, also known as a vitamin B-12 deficiency, can result in a variety of symptoms and health complications. This condition is also known as pernicious anemia, or insufficient red blood cell production in the body. In addition to fatigue, people who are vitamin B-12-deficient can experience a wide range of symptoms. They may have dizziness, headache, shortness of breath, cold extremities, skin discoloration and/or chest pain. Vitamin B-12 deficiency can also lead to weakened bones and difficulty maintaining balance.
Causes. Your headache symptoms can help your doctor determine the cause and the appropriate treatment. Most headaches aren't the result of a serious illness, but some may result from a life-threatening condition requiring emergency care. Headaches are generally classified by cause: 