An early landmark moment in the Industrial Revolution came near the end of the eighteenth century, when Samuel Slater brought new manufacturing technologies from Britain to the United States and founded the first U.S. cotton mill in Beverly, Massachusetts. Thus, the Industrial Revolution began the transition of the United States from a rural to an urban society. Young people raised on farms saw greater opportunities in the cities and moved there, as did millions of immigrants from Europe.
Background of the Industrial Revolution. The Industrial Revolution (1820-1870) was of great importance to the economic development of the United States. The first Industrial Revolution occurred in Great Britain and Europe during the late eighteenth century. It then centered on the United States and Germany. 
The Industrial Revolution began in England in the eighteenths  century and quickly spread across Europe and North America. New  technology and inventions transformed an agricultural and  commercial way of life into a modern industrial society. 1. The Industrial Revolution occurred in the last part of the 18th  century. It began in Great Britain.   2. This revolution was an economic one, and it changed the way the  world produced goods.   3. The population went from being agricultural to industrial.
Prior to the Industrial Revolution, which began in Britain in the late 1700s, manufacturing was often done in people’s homes, using hand tools or basic machines. Communication became easier during the Industrial Revolution with such inventions as the telegraph. In 1837, two Brits, William Cooke (1806-1879) and Charles Wheatstone (1802-1875), patented the first commercial electrical
The Industrial Revolution, which began in England, was a period in  the late 18th and early 19th centuries when the life of ordinary  people was changed dramatically forever. 1. The Industrial Revolution occurred in the last part of the 18th  century. It began in Great Britain.   2. This revolution was an economic one, and it changed the way the  world produced goods.   3. The population went from being agricultural to industrial.
Britain led the way in this transformation. By the 1780s, the British Industrial Revolution, which had been developing for several decades, began to further accelerate. Manufacturing, business, and the number of wage laborers skyrocketed, starting a trend that would continue into the first half of the 19th century. 
Introduction. The Industrial Revolution, which took place from the 18th to 19th centuries, was a period during which predominantly agrarian, rural societies in Europe and America became industrial and urban. Communication became easier during the Industrial Revolution with such inventions as the telegraph. In 1837, two Brits, William Cooke (1806-1879) and Charles Wheatstone (1802-1875), patented the first commercial electrical
Some economists say that the major impact of the Industrial Revolution was that the standard of living for the general population began to increase consistently for the first time in history, although others have said that it did not begin to meaningfully improve until the late 19th and 20th centuries. The large scale production of chemicals was an important development during the Industrial Revolution. The first of these was the production of sulphuric acid by the lead chamber process invented by the Englishman John Roebuck (James Watt 's first partner) in 1746.
The Industrial revolution in the U.S. first began in New England-Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Connecticut, Vermont, and New Hampshire, because they were close to resources su … ch as coal, iron, and especially rushing rivers and streams. 1. The Industrial Revolution occurred in the last part of the 18th  century. It began in Great Britain.   2. This revolution was an economic one, and it changed the way the  world produced goods.   3. The population went from being agricultural to industrial.
The Industrial Revolution began in the United Kingdom and most of the important technological innovations were British. Mechanized textile production spread to continental Europe in the early 19th century, with important centers in France. The large scale production of chemicals was an important development during the Industrial Revolution. The first of these was the production of sulphuric acid by the lead chamber process invented by the Englishman John Roebuck (James Watt 's first partner) in 1746.