ABURI BRAND. Bringing a fresh and innovative concept to Vancouver’s sushi scene. Aburi, or flamed seared sushi, was developed nearly a century ago in Japan. The act of applying fire directly and lightly sear is known to enhance the natural flavors of the fish.
JaBistro is perhaps best known for its Aburi-style sushi, which involves the act of grilling the top of nigri sushi via blow torch. All of this is done in the view of the diners, adding a little something extra to the experience.
Aburi Brand. Aburi Sushi was inspired by the innovative idea of sear-flaming sushi. It has been familiarized since early days of history that a light sear direct from the flame enhances the natural flavour of the fish.The idea of flame-searing the fish goes above and beyond normal sushi style.
Aburi Sashmi ($25) is a trio of aburi sashimi paired with house made sauces. Rainbow Salad ($18) has 6 kinds of sashimi, avocado, organic greens, and tosazu jelly. It was really good! The acidity from the jelly really complimented the delicate taste of the sashimi.
They are best known for their aburi style sushi. It’s sear-flamed sushi. You won’t need any soy sauce or wasabi with any of their items.I’ve heard much about it, but it took me a long time to finally dine here. The thing is that it is a bit expensive and dinner can burn a hole in your pocket.
Aburi sushi is a symbol of our brand that breaks the stereotypes of both Japanese and Sushi restaurants and creates a new style of culinary terrain. However, pursuit of something new also means to nurture the tradition while continuously carrying it to the future.
The Sushi: Home to Toronto’s first Aburi-style sushi, JaBistro’s sushi and presentation is something to be admired. With fish coming in from Australia, B.C. and Japan, they only choose the best, and what is seasonally available.
Situated along the Burrard Inlet next to the Vancouver landmark Canada Place, Miku Waterfront continues to deliver gourmet Aburi cuisine paired with its well known, energetic ambience. Originally located on West Hastings St in Coal Harbour, Miku first introduced Aburi-style cuisine to Vancouver in 2008. Our new location offers a full bar and lounge area, waterfront patio, private dining room and full service sushi bar.