Contents 1. Table of Ingredients for the Mash 2. About Myths 3. Making and Fermenting Mash from Whole Corn or Directly from Corn Meal 4. For Starters in Distillation 5. Sugar 6. Ethyl Alcohol Produced by Sugar 7. Yeast 8. 
5. To produce ethanol in the US, corn is fermented, whereas in Brazil sugarcane is fermented. The fermentation process is highly CO2 intensive, i.e., it creates a lot of carbon dioxide. 
Corn ethanol is ethanol produced from corn that is used as a biomass. Corn ethanol is produced by means of ethanol fermentation and distillation. Corn ethanol is mainly used as an oxygenate in gasoline to produce a low-level blend. To a lesser extent, it is used as fuel for E85 flex-fuel vehicles. Corn is the main feedstock used for producing ethanol fuel in the United States. The corn starch and remaining water can then be processed one of three ways: 1) fermented into ethanol, through a similar process as dry milling, 2) dried and sold as modified corn starch, or 3) made into corn syrup. The production of corn ethanol uses water in two ways – irrigation and processing.
So test with a hydrometer to see if the fermentation batch is done. Also, you need to test the high proof alcohol after it comes out of the still (and has cooled down to room temperature) to see the proof. Look at this hydrometer: it reads from 0% - 100% alcohol by volume and also by proof. 
Fermenting Summary Ferment the mash/wash at a constant 25oC, using 1.5g/L of good yeast suited to the wash. Use an airlock to let CO2 out but not let air in. Let the yeast settle out, and possibly even filter the wash before putting it into the still. Fermentation is the conversion of sugar to ethanol and carbon dioxide by yeasts (wort to wash). Whilst doing this, it can create a range of flavours beyond what the wort started with. During fermentation yeast converts sugar into alcohol and carbon dioxide by feeding on a series of increasingly complex sugars, essentially breaking the sugar down into other compounds which enable it to grow. First on the menu is glucose, before moving onto maltose, then maltotriose
By Anne Marie Helmenstine, Ph.D. Ethanol is also called ethyl alcohol or grain alcohol. It's made from a fermented mixture of corn, yeast, sugar, and water. The resulting alcohol is 100 to 200 proof (200 proof is pure alcohol). In addition to use in the lab, ethanol is a popular fuel alternative and gasoline additive. 1 Mash or mush is made by adding boiling water to the corn meal. 2  The mash is kept warm to start the fermentation process. 3  Yeast is added, if available (half pound yeast per 50 gallons of mash, for example), and sugar (variable recipe).
The CVAS study showed that corn silage continued to ferment for four months after ensiling. “The common misconception is that silage is stable after four weeks,” said Kathy Emery, veterinarian and Mycogen Seeds dairy nutritionist. Don’t jump the gun when feeding your new-crop corn silage. Feeding a crop that hasn’t properly fermented can lower dry matter intake (DMI), decrease milk production, and cause digestive upsets. Allowing time for adequate fermentation creates a more palatable and digestible feed for optimum DMI and milk production