Best Answer: boiled seafood lasts for 5 days (crabs crawfish shrimp oysters and clams) the seafood must still be in the shell. 
Frozen. The easiest way to purchase crawfish is frozen. Frozen crawfish have been cooked and peeled, and the tails removed and frozen. They will keep this way in your freezer for up to three months. If you cook and peel the crawfish yourself, place them into heavy duty freezer bags, about 3/4 full. Covering the meat with water may help to reduce freezer burn but isn't necessary.
(8) How to peel and eat crawfish See next page (9) What to do with leftovers…how to store cooked crawfish. Whole boiled crawfish may be refrigerated and eaten cold. Store as you would any other cooked item. Stored properly, whole cookedcrawfish can last 2-3 days in refrigeration. Whole cooked Crawfish may be frozen but results will likely be mixed to poor. We don’t recommend it. A second option is to peel all leftover crawfish and make other dishes. The vegetables are for those guests who cannot figure out how to peel the crawfish. At least they won't starve.Fruge’frugé S Cajun / crawfish-888-254 / 8626boudreaux@.cajuncrawfish / com.www.cajuncrawfish• com 2. lbs • salt 1. lb lemon• pepper 4. oz ground granulated dry• garlic 5. oz
How long can cooked lasagna stay in the refrigerator and still be good to eat? This food will only last a few days. 4 days in the refrigerator if the food is stored properly. Place in an air tight container for the best results. You can transfer the food … to the freezer if longer storage is needed. 10 people found this useful. Place it back in the fridge. After following these instructions for storage, the barley will last 3-5 days, depending on the internal temperature of the refrigerator.
Meats are kept better in the freezer. Meats can be kept in the refrigerator for 3 to 4 days if raw and 1 to 2 days longer if cooked. Always place cooked meats in an airt … ight container. 50 people found this useful. If you keep the uncooked lobster in the fridge with a gel cold pack  in the container, the lobster can be kept for about two days. If  the lobster is not alive when you take … it out, do not cook it,  throw it away.
Times are based on a refrigerator set at 40 degrees Fahrenheit or colder. Shelf life also depends on the freshness of foods at the time of purchase. 1  Cheese, hard: six months. 2  Butter: 1 to 3 months. 3  Olives and pickles: one month. 4  Fresh eggs (in shell): 3 to 5 weeks. 5  Cheese, soft, unopened: 3 to 4 weeks. 6  Cheese, soft, opened: 1 to 2 weeks. 7  Bacon, cooked: one week. 8  Hard-boiled eggs: one week
Update: It has not been in the freezer. The crawfish was boiled, and then peeled. The cooked meat was then stored in a ziploc bag in the fridge. It's been in the fridge about 6 days. 
1 To freeze, place crayfish in airtight plastic containers or heavy-duty freezer bags. 2  Freezer time shown is for best quality only — foods kept constantly frozen at 0° F will keep safe indefinitely. 
Crawfish can be eaten hot or chilled; the meat is removed most easily when they are cooked. If you cook crawfish from their live state, they must be refrigerated within two hours of cooking. When storing fresh, cooked crawfish, place them in sealed, airtight containers and place in the refrigerator. They will keep this way in your freezer for up to three months. If you cook and peel the crawfish yourself, place them into heavy duty freezer bags, about 3/4 full. Covering the meat with water may help to reduce freezer burn but isn't necessary.
In addition, it's always important to get the food in the refrigerator within 2 hours after it's cooked or sooner if it's cooled enough. If food has been left out for longer than 2 hours, don't put it back in the refrigerator and don't keep it for later. It's not safe to eat. The following foods will keep 3 to 4 days in the refrigerator: 1  Fully cooked ham slices. 2  Cooked meat and meat casseroles. 3  Cooked chicken and chicken casseroles. 4  Pizza.