Unlike nearly all of his philosophical contemporaries, Plato's entire oeuvre œuvre is believed to have survived intact for 2,400 2400. Years along with his, Teacher, socrates and his most famous, Student, Aristotle plato laid the very foundations Of western philosophy and. science The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy describes Plato as ...one of the most dazzling writers in the Western literary tradition and one of the most penetrating, wide-ranging, and influential authors in the history of philosophy. ...
Aristotle. Aristotle was born on 384 BCE; he is a famous Greek philosopher and polymath. Aristotle was the student Plato and went on to become the teacher of Alexander the Great. The works of Aristotle cover various subjects ranging from: logic, music, theater, metaphysics, physics, poetry, politics, biology, ethics, government, linguistics, and zoology.
Plato (428-354 BCE) Athens, Greece Plato was born to a wealthy family and was a student of the great philosopher Socrates. After the death of his teacher Plato founded the first university, called the Academy. There, students focused on important questions such as What is the self? and What is human nature?. Aristotle was one of his star pupils. Athens, Greece. Plato was born to a wealthy family and was a student of the great philosopher Socrates. After the death of his teacher Plato founded the first university, called the Academy.
Plato (428/427 - 348/347 BCE) is considered the pre-eminent Greek philosopher, known for his Dialogues and for founding his Academy north of Athens, traditionally considered the first university in the western world. It is likely that Plato had known Socrates, at least by reputation, since youth. The Athenian politician, Critias, was Plato's mother's cousin and studied with Socrates as a young man. It has been suggested, therefore, that Socrates was a regular visitor to Plato's family.
Plato's contemporary, Phaedo, also one of Socrates' students (and best known for Plato's dialogue named after him) contended that Plato placed his own ideas in Socrates' mouth and made up the dramatic situations of his dialogues. It is likely that Plato had known Socrates, at least by reputation, since youth. The Athenian politician, Critias, was Plato's mother's cousin and studied with Socrates as a young man. It has been suggested, therefore, that Socrates was a regular visitor to Plato's family.
Plato is considered by many to be the most important philosopher who ever lived. He is known as the father of idealism in philosophy. His ideas were elitist, with the philosopher king the ideal ruler. Plato is perhaps best known to college students for his parable of a cave, which appears in Plato's Republic. He was one of the most famous, respected, and influential philosophers of all time. A type of love (Platonic) is named for him. We know the Greek philosopher Socrates mostly through Plato's dialogues.
Plato was a classical Greek philosopher and mathematician, more so known as the student of Socrates and writer of philosophical dialogues. He founded the Academy in Athens, the first institution of higher learning in the Western world. 
Born circa 428 B.C.E., ancient Greek philosopher Plato was a student of Socrates and a teacher of Aristotle. His writings explored justice, beauty and equality, and also contained discussions in aesthetics, political philosophy, theology, cosmology, epistemology and the philosophy of language. 
Plato (427—347 B.C.E.). Plato is one of the world's best known and most widely read and studied philosophers. He was the student of Socrates and the teacher of Aristotle, and he wrote in the middle of the fourth century B.C.E. in ancient Greece. 