Hematology: The diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of diseases of the blood and bone marrow as well as of the immunologic, hemostatic (blood clotting) and vascular systems. Because of the nature of blood, the science of hematology profoundly affects the understanding of many diseases. 
Blood quantum laws or Indian blood laws are legislation enacted in the United States to define membership in Native American tribes or nations. A person's blood quantum (aka BQ) is the percentage of their ancestors, out of their total ancestors, who are documented as full-blood Indians. 
blood noun [U] (LIQUID). A2 the ​red ​liquid that is ​sent around the ​body by the ​heart, and ​carries ​oxygen and ​important ​substances to ​organs and ​tissue, and ​removes ​waste ​products: He ​lost a lot of blood in the ​accident. give/donate blood › to ​allow a ​trained ​person to take some blood from ​your ​body so that it can be ​stored and is ​ready to be given to ​people who have ​lost a lot of blood in an ​accident or ​operation. More examples. 1  The ​ teacher ​ drew a ​ diagram ​ showing how the blood ​ flows through the ​ heart.
Hypoxemia, or low blood oxygen, describes a lower than normal level of oxygen in your blood. In order to function properly, your body needs a certain level of oxygen circulating in the blood to cells and tissues. When this level of oxygen falls below a certain amount, hypoxemia occurs and you may experience shortness of breath.
Medical Definition of HEMATOLOGY. : a medical science that deals with the blood and blood-forming organs. — he·ma·tol·o·gist or chiefly British hae·ma·tol·o·gist \-jəst\ noun. 
noun. 1 The red liquid that circulates in the arteries and veins of humans and other vertebrate animals, carrying oxygen to and carbon dioxide from the tissues of the body: drops of blood. More example sentences. Synonyms. 1  Pressure is needed to pump the life giving, oxygen carrying blood around your body.
Medical Definition of HEMATOLOGIC. : of or relating to blood or to hematology. — he·ma·to·log·i·cal·ly or chiefly British hae·ma·to·log·i·cal·ly \-i-k(ə-)lē\ adverb. 
Blood: The familiar red fluid in the body that contains white and red blood cells, platelets, proteins, and other elements. The blood is transported throughout the body by the circulatory system. 
Hypoxemia (or hypoxaemia in British English) is an abnormally low level of oxygen in the blood. More specifically, it is oxygen deficiency in arterial blood. 
Save. blood /ˈblʌd/ noun. blood. /ˈblʌd/. noun. Learner's definition of BLOOD. [noncount]. 1. : the red liquid that flows through the bodies of people and animals. — see also bad blood, cold-blooded, full-blooded, hot-blooded, red-blooded, warm-blooded. The accident victim has already lost a lot of blood