The difference between chemical engineers and other types of engineers is that they apply a knowledge of chemistry in addition to other engineering disciplines. Chemical engineers sometimes are called 'universal engineers' because their scientific and technical mastery is so broad. It is the branch of engineering concerned with the design, construction, and operation of machines and plants that perform chemical reactions to solve practical problems or make useful products.
In the field of engineering, a chemical engineer is a professional, who is equipped with the knowledge of chemical engineering, works principally in the chemical industry to convert basic raw materials into a variety of products, and deals with the design and operation of plants and equipment. Chemical engineering is a male-dominated field: as of 2009, only 17.1% of professional chemical engineers are women. However, that trend is expected to shift as the number of female students in the field continues to increase.
Chemical engineering is a branch of engineering that applies physical sciences (physics and chemistry) and life sciences (microbiology and biochemistry) together with applied mathematics and economics to produce, transform, transport, and properly use chemicals, materials and energy. 
Chemical engineering is the study and practice of transforming substances at large scales for the tangible improvement of the human condition. 
Chemical engineering is the branch of engineering that deals with chemical production and the manufacture of products through chemical processes. This includes designing equipment, systems and processes for refining raw materials and for mixing, compounding and processing chemicals to make valuable products. George E. Davis, an English engineer, is credited with founding the field of chemical engineering in the late 19th century.
Chemical engineers use math, physics, and economics to solve practical problems. The difference between chemical engineers and other types of engineers is that they apply a knowledge of chemistry in addition to other engineering disciplines. Chemical engineers may be called 'universal engineers' because their scientific and technical mastery is so extensive.
Chemical engineers apply the principles of chemistry, biology, physics and math to solve problems that involve the production or use of chemicals, fuel, drugs, food and many other products, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS). Chemical engineers work in a variety of fields, according to the BLS. This includes designing equipment, systems and processes for refining raw materials and for mixing, compounding and processing chemicals to make valuable products. George E. Davis, an English engineer, is credited with founding the field of chemical engineering in the late 19th century.
Advertisement. Advertisement. Chemical Engineering is the discipline of engineering which deals with the application of experimental and/or natural sciences in collaboration with life sciences, mathematics and economics to either produce or transform chemicals, energy and materials. As a chemical engineer you will basically be dealing with chemicals, energy and will be looking into processes that allow you to create/convert chemical substances. Modern Chemical engineering focuses on how to make use of raw materials in order to manufacture items which are less expensive.
Chemical engineers apply the principles of chemistry, biology, and physics to solve problems involving the production of chemicals, fuel, drugs, food, and many other products. What Chemical Engineers Do About this section. Chemical engineers develop and design chemical manufacturing processes. Chemical engineers apply the principles of chemistry, biology, physics, and mathematics to solve problems that involve the production or use of chemicals, fuel, drugs, food, and many other products.