Webster’s first definition of literally is, “in a literal sense or matter; actually.” Its second definition is, “in effect; virtually.” In addressing this seeming contradiction, its authors comment : “Since some people take sense 2 to be the opposition of sense 1, it has been frequently criticized as a misuse. Much has been made of the use, misuse and overuse of the word “literally.”. Literally, of course, means something that is actually true: “Literally every pair of shoes I own was ruined when my apartment flooded.”.
Lunatic. Lunatic is an informal term referring to people who are considered mentally ill, dangerous, foolish or unpredictable; conditions once called lunacy. The term may be considered insulting in serious contexts, though is sometimes used in friendly jest. Lunatic (adj). of or pertaining to, or suitable for, an insane person; evincing lunacy; as, lunatic gibberish; a lunatic asylum. Lunatic (noun). a person affected by lunacy; an insane person, esp. one who has lucid intervals; a madman; a person of unsound mind. Origin: [F. lunatique, L. lunaticus, fr. luna the moon.
Compare Old English monseoc lunatic, literally moon-sick; Middle High German lune humor, temper, mood, whim, fancy (German Laune), from Latin luna. Compare also New Testament Greek seleniazomai be epileptic, from selene moon.. Lunatic fringe (1913) apparently was coined by U.S. politician Theodore Roosevelt. 
The word lunatic comes from the Latin luna, and literally means controlled by the moon.. Although irrational actions were no more likely during a full moon than at any other time of the month, the superstition remained. dirives from the word lunaticas meaning of the moon  or moon  struck. Confidence votes 3.5K. There is a theory that the moons cycle, and specifically the full moon, can affect certain peoples mental faculties. Given that lunar comes from the latin Luna, meaning moon, someone who is apparently afflicted by a full moon is said to be a 'lunar-tic' or lunatic. So, there is not a lunatic moon as such but rather a lunatic is someone affected by the moon
USAGE The use of literally as an intensifier is common, esp in informal contexts. In some cases, it provides emphasis without adding to the meaning: the house was literally only five minutes walk away. Often, however, its use results in absurdity: the news was literally an eye-opener to me. It is therefore best avoided in formal contexts.
• LUNATIC (noun). The noun LUNATIC has 2 senses: 1. an insane person. 2. a reckless impetuous irresponsible person. Familiarity information: LUNATIC used as a noun is rare. • LUNATIC (adjective). The adjective LUNATIC has 1 sense: 1. insane and believed to be affected by the phases of the moon. Familiarity information: LUNATIC used as an adjective is very rare.
Or see Looney or Luni. Lunatic is an informal term referring to people who are considered mentally ill, dangerous, foolish or unpredictable; conditions once attributed to lunacy. The term may be considered insulting in serious contexts in modern times, though is now more likely to be used in friendly jest. The term lunatic was also used by supporters of John Harrison and his marine chronometer method of determining longitude to refer to proponents of the Method of Lunar Distances, advanced by Astronomer Royal Nevil Maskelyne.
Usage. In its standard use literally means ‘in a literal sense, as opposed to a non-literal or exaggerated sense’, as for example in I told him I never wanted to see him again, but I didn’t expect him to take it literally. 
The term lunatic derives from the Latin lunaticus which originally referred mainly to epilepsy and  madness  as diseases caused by the Moon. By the fourth and fifth centuries astrologers began to commonly use the term to refer to neurological and psychiatric diseases. The term lunatic was also used by supporters of John Harrison and his marine chronometer method of determining longitude to refer to proponents of the Method of Lunar Distances, advanced by Astronomer Royal Nevil Maskelyne.