All images courtesy of BBC Home Entertainment. The Making of Planet Earth is available on DVD and YouTube. I t's strange to think how we can now watch the BBC's Planet Earth on Netflix, curled up in our pajamas with all the blankets, cookies and other creature comforts we want.
Reviews: 61 user | 21 critic. Emmy Award winning, 11-episodes, 5-years in the making, the most expensive nature documentary series ever commissioned by the BBC, and the first to be filmed in high definition. 
The process of bringing Planet Earth and Earth to the screen took over 5 years. With a combined budget of $47 million, $15 million of which was earmarked for the film, it represented the most expensive production in the history of documentary filmmaking. Principal photography began in 2004 and was completed in 2006. Earth is a 2007 nature documentary film which depicts the diversity of wild habitats and creatures across the planet. The film begins in the Arctic in January of one year and moves south, finishing in Antarctica in the December of the same year.
But more disgusting. Planet Earth crew filmed that dramatic snow leopard hunting scene on the border of Pakistan and Afghanistan when the world was hunting for Al Qaeda. The snow leopard scene is the result of three years' worth of effort by a total of eight crew members and 20 local trackers. I t's strange to think how we can now watch the BBC's Planet Earth on Netflix, curled up in our pajamas with all the blankets, cookies and other creature comforts we want.
Most filmed animal hunts are actually many hunts edited together to complete a story. Planet Earth strived to film the entirety of an impala hunt by African wild dogs in the Pole to Pole segment. 
A feature film version of Planet Earth was commissioned alongside the television series, repeating the successful model established with The Blue Planet and its companion film, Deep Blue. Earth was released around the world from 2007 to 2009. The series comprises eleven episodes, each of which features a global overview of a different biome or habitat on Earth. At the end of each fifty-minute episode, a ten-minute featurette takes a behind-the-scenes look at the challenges of filming the series.
Planet Earth is a 2006 British television series produced by the BBC Natural History Unit. Five years in the making, it was the most expensive nature documentary series ever commissioned by the BBC and also the first to be filmed in high definition. Planet Earth premiered on 5 March 2006 in the United Kingdom on BBC One. It had been shown in 130 countries worldwide by June 2007. Its first broadcast in the United States was on 25 March 2007 on the Discovery Channel, with Sigourney Weaver replacing David Attenborough's original commentary.
Five years in the making, it was the most expensive nature documentary series ever commissioned by the BBC and also the first to be filmed in high definition. Planet Earth premiered on 5 March 2006 in the United Kingdom on BBC One, and by June 2007 had been shown in 130 countries. The series comprises eleven episodes, each of which features a global overview of a different biome or habitat on Earth. At the end of each fifty-minute episode, a ten-minute featurette takes a behind-the-scenes look at the challenges of filming the series.
Planet Earth was the second attempt by Roddenberry to create a weekly series set on a post-apocalyptic future Earth. The previous pilot was Genesis II, and it featured many of the concepts and characters later redeveloped in Planet Earth. There and in the Planet Earth scene, the heroes witness the effect of their own violence on children, forcing them to rethink the use of force—a very effective and intelligent pacifistic touch from Roddenberry. This article is about the science fiction film. For the BBC documentary, see Planet Earth (TV series) . Planet Earth is a science fiction television movie that was created by Gene Roddenberry, written by Roddenberry and Juanita Bartlett (from a story by Roddenberry). It first aired on April 23, 1974 on the ABC network, and stars John Saxon as Dylan Hunt