DEFINITION of 'QAR (Qatari Riyal)'. The currency abbreviation for the Qatari riyal (QAR), the currency for Qatar, an Arab emirate located along the coast of the Arabian Peninsula. The Qatari riyal is made up of 100 dirham and is often presented with the symbol QR in English. AAA |. The currency abbreviation for the Qatari riyal (QAR), the currency for Qatar, an Arab emirate located along the coast of the Arabian Peninsula.
Confidence votes 1.2K. Doha is the capital of the state of Qatar, and the currency is the Qatari Riyal. Doha is the capital city of Qatar. On the Persian Gulf next to Bahrain and Dubai. Doha is a city, in Qatar.
Select To Currency. NB Rates provided for information only. The Currency Converter is provided by xe.com. xe.com and its owners shall not be liable to User or any third party for any damage or loss incurred, monetary or otherwise, directly or indirectly, as a result of the use of the xe.com or the xe.com code. 
Until 1966, Qatar used the Indian rupee as currency, in the form of Gulf rupees. When India devalued the rupee in 1966, Qatar, along with the other states using the Gulf rupee, chose to introduce its own currency. Article (1) states that the Qatari Riyal exchange rate shall be pegged against the US Dollar at (3.64), and sets upper and lower limits of QAR 3.6415 and QAR 3.6385 for the Qatar Central Bank's purchase and sale of dollars with banks operating in Qatar.
The riyal (Arabic: ريال riyāl; ISO 4217 code: QAR) is the currency of the State of Qatar. It is divided into 100 dirham (Arabic: درهم ‎) and is abbreviated as either QR (English) or ر.ق (Arabic). Article (1) states that the Qatari Riyal exchange rate shall be pegged against the US Dollar at (3.64), and sets upper and lower limits of QAR 3.6415 and QAR 3.6385 for the Qatar Central Bank's purchase and sale of dollars with banks operating in Qatar.
QAR-Qatari Riyal. Qatar, Riyal. The Qatari Riyal is the currency of Qatar. Our currency rankings show that the most popular Qatar Riyal exchange rate is the INR to QAR rate. The currency code for Rials is QAR, and the currency symbol is ﷼. Below, you'll find Qatari Riyal rates and a currency converter. The Qatari Riyal is the currency of Qatar. Our currency rankings show that the most popular Qatar Riyal exchange rate is the INR to QAR rate. The currency code for Rials is QAR, and the currency symbol is ﷼
Qatari Riyal (QAR) Currency Exchange Rate Conversion Calculator. This currency convertor is up to date with exchange rates from October 12, 2015. Enter the amount to be converted in the box to the left of the currency and press the convert button. To show Qatari Riyals and just one other currency click on any other currency. The Qatari Riyal is the currency in Qatar (QA, QAT). The Qatari Riyal is also known as the Qatar Rial. The symbol for QAR can be written QR, and ﷼. The Qatari Riyal is divided into 100 dirhams. The exchange rate for the Qatari Riyal was last updated on October 9, 2015 from The International Monetary Fund