More specifically, metropolitan area is situated in the South West Division of Western Australia. Furthermore, the CBD or central business district of Perth is located on the banks of the Swan River. Perth is the capital city of state Western Australia and fourth largest city of Australia. The city was first founded by Captain James Stirling in the year 1829 as the political center of the free-settler Swan River Colony. Perth acts as the business center in the Western Australia. Though, the other businesses like mining, agriculture and other industries are located outside the city region, but the center of all these businesses is Perth city.
Perth Ontario Perth is a beautiful heritage town located in Eastern Ontario Canada. This Perth web site is dedicated to the merchants of Perth and the thousands of tourists who visit Perth each year. 
The drive from other cities such as Melbourne or Sydney is a very long one. Melbourne to Perth is over 2,500 miles. Some Key Attractions: Perth is the capital city of Western Australia and it is probably one of the most isolated cities in the world. Perth is closer to Singapore than it is to Sydney. The drive from other cities such as Melbourne or Sydney is a very long one. Melbourne to Perth is over 2,500 miles.
The Perth Cultural Centre is the location of the city's major arts, cultural and educational institutions, including the Art Gallery of Western Australia, Western Australian Museum, State Library of Western Australia, State Records Office, and Perth Institute of Contemporary Arts (PICA). Perth was originally founded by Captain James Stirling in 1829 as the administrative centre of the Swan River Colony. It gained city status (currently vested in the smaller City of Perth) in 1856, and was promoted to the status of a Lord Mayorality in 1929.
Population and Isolation. Perth is the capital city of the state of Western Australia. Western Australia is the largest state in Australia with an area of 2 525 500 square kilometres. Over 2 000 000 people live in Western Australia, and an amazing 1 500 000 of these people choose to live in the Perth metropolitan area. With a land area larger than Western Europe, it means most of Western Australia is very sparsely populated. Perth is the world's most isolated continental capital city. We are closer to Jakarta (3007km), the capital city of Indonesia, than Australia's own capital city of Canberra (3905km by road).
Perth is a city/town with a large population in the state/region of Western Australia, Australia which is located in the continent/region of Oceania. Cities, towns and places near Perth include Northbridge, East Perth, West Perth and Highgate. The closest major cities include Adelaide, Kupang, Denpasar and Mataram. 
Perth /ˈpɜrθ/ is the capital and largest city of the Australian state of Western Australia. It is the fourth-most populous city in Australia, with an estimated population of 2.02 million (as of 30 June 2014) living in Greater Perth. Perth was originally founded by Captain James Stirling in 1829 as the administrative centre of the Swan River Colony. It gained city status (currently vested in the smaller City of Perth) in 1856, and was promoted to the status of a Lord Mayorality in 1929.
As part of Perth's role as the capital of Western Australia, the state's Parliament and Supreme Court are located within the city, as is Government House, the residence of the Governor of Western Australia. Perth was originally founded by Captain James Stirling in 1829 as the administrative centre of the Swan River Colony. It gained city status (currently vested in the smaller City of Perth) in 1856, and was promoted to the status of a Lord Mayorality in 1929.
The City of Perth, Western Australia. Western Australia is the largest of the Australian states and as the name suggests it is located in the western region of Australia. In fact it is pretty much the whole western region of Australia occupying one million square miles. The drive from other cities such as Melbourne or Sydney is a very long one. Melbourne to Perth is over 2,500 miles. Perth is the capital city of Western Australia and it is probably one of the most isolated cities in the world. Perth is closer to Singapore than it is to Sydney.