Fennel is a perennial, pleasant-smelling herb with yellow flowers. It is native to the Mediterranean, but is now found throughout the world. Dried fennel seeds are often used in cooking as an anise-flavored spice. But don’t confuse fennel with anise; though they look and taste similar, they are not the same. Fennel’s dried ripe seeds and oil are used to make medicine. Fennel is used for various digestive problems including heartburn, intestinal gas, bloating, loss of appetite, and colic in infant
Tamoxifen (Nolvadex) is used to help treat and prevent these types of cancer. Fennel seems to also affect estrogen levels in the body. Taking fennel along with tamoxifen might decrease the effectiveness of tamoxifen (Nolvadex). Do not take fennel if you are taking tamoxifen (Nolvadex). It is native to the Mediterranean, but is now found throughout the world. Dried fennel seeds are often used in cooking as an anise-flavored spice. But don’t confuse fennel with anise; though they look and taste similar, they are not the same.
Bulk fennel seeds are most commonly used as medicine and as a cooking spice. For the best results and flavor, crush the seeds a bit before using them: Use a mortar and pestle to crush them, or simply rub them between the palms of your hands. As an antispasmodic, fennel acts on the smooth muscle of the respiratory passages as well as the stomach and intestines; this is the reason that fennel preparations are used to relieve bronchial spasms.
Fennel is also very tasty on its own, sauteed sautéed or even. Grilled fennel leaves can be chopped up and used to flavor any number of, dishes either hot or, cold much like you would use any other culinary. Herb use it in dishes that also feature, citrus or in any dish that reminds you of. spring Use it in dishes that also feature citrus, or in any dish that reminds you of spring. Of course, fennel fronds also make a beautiful, feathery garnish for dishes containing fennel. Fennel seeds are one of the primary spices in Italian sausage, and they are also used frequently in Indian and Middle Eastern cuisine. Fennel pollen is one of those ingredients that is almost exclusively used in fine dining kitchens.
Fennel bulb, which looks kind of like a cross between an onion and the base of a bunch of celery, has a sweet, perfumy, anise-like flavor. Rather than making food taste like licorice, though, fennel imparts a light, bright spring-like quality to foods. Plus, fennel is good for you. Use it in dishes that also feature citrus, or in any dish that reminds you of spring. Of course, fennel fronds also make a beautiful, feathery garnish for dishes containing fennel. Fennel seeds are one of the primary spices in Italian sausage, and they are also used frequently in Indian and Middle Eastern cuisine. Fennel pollen is one of those ingredients that is almost exclusively used in fine dining kitchens
It is a highly aromatic and flavorful herb with culinary and medicinal uses and, along with the similar-tasting anise, is one of the primary ingredients of absinthe. Florence fennel or finocchio is a selection with a swollen, bulb-like stem base that is used as a vegetable. Florence fennel is one of the three main herbs used in the preparation of absinthe, an alcoholic mixture which originated as a medicinal elixir in Switzerland and became, by the late 19th century, a popular alcoholic drink in France and other countries.
The health benefits of Fennel essential oil can be attributed to its properties as an antiseptic, antispasmodic, aperitif, carminative, depurative, diuretic, emenagogue, expectorant, galactogogue, laxative, stimulant, stomachic, splenic, tonic and vermifuge substance. 
Photo Source. Fennel essential oil (Foeniculum vulgare) is known to be a potent and powerful aid for digestive health. Its strong licorice flavor and aroma is gained from the steam distillation from the crushed seeds of the plant. I'll be honest...it's about my least favorite aroma. 
Brie, fennel is a bulbous vegetable with a tall, wispy, fronded top that looks rather like dill. The fronds can be used in salads, but the main attraction of fennel is the bulb itself. It's very firm and crunchy, and it tastes a bit like licorice and anise. It has a fresh, bright taste and it's one of our favorite vegetables for salads and slaws. It can also be grilled or braised until tender. 