Generally, chickens are not fried whole; instead, the chicken is divided into its four main constituent pieces: the two white meat sections are the breast and the wing from the front of the chicken, while the dark meat sections are the thigh and leg or drumstick, are from the rear of the chicken. What separates fried chicken from other fried forms of chicken is that generally the chicken is cut at the joints and the bones and skin are left intact. Crisp well-seasoned skin, rendered of excess fat, is a hallmark of well made fried
The chicken (Gallus gallus domesticus) is a domesticated fowl, a subspecies of the red junglefowl. As one of the most common and widespread domestic animals, with a population of more than 24 billion in 2003, there are more chickens in the world than any other species of bird. Humans keep chickens primarily as a source of food, consuming both their meat and their eggs. The meat of the chicken, also called chicken, is a type of poultry meat. Because of its relatively low cost, chicken is one of the most used meats in the world. Nearly all parts of the bird can be used for food, and the meat can be cooked in many different ways.
No matter what you're looking for, we've got your back. Egg Layers. While all chickens can lay eggs, not all chickens can lay enough eggs to suit everyone's needs. Some chickens can only produce a few eggs a week, while others can produce hundreds over the course of the year, and even into winter months. That's why proper breeding tactics will come into place with your meat production chickens. Knowing how to reedthem together to ensure every new clutch of eggs will yield the biggest and best chickens for the job is critical,and we can give you some tips on how best to plan.
For chickens as food, see Chicken (food) . For the broader species of which chickens form a subspecies, see Red junglefowl. For other uses, see Chicken (disambiguation) , Chooks (disambiguation) , or Red junglefowl. The meat of the chicken, also called chicken, is a type of poultry meat. Because of its relatively low cost, chicken is one of the most used meats in the world. Nearly all parts of the bird can be used for food, and the meat can be cooked in many different ways.
Generally includes a little more than one quarter of the meat on the chicken. The cut includes half a breast, a wing, and part of the back. Breast Halves: Also referred to as split breast. The leg of the chicken consists of two parts, which are the thigh and the drumstick. Consist of dark meat only. Thigh: The top portion of the leg above the knee joint that is connected to the body of the chicken. Consists of all dark meat. Drumstick: The bottom portion of the leg below the knee joint.
Fried chicken (also referred to as Southern fried chicken) is a dish consisting of chicken pieces usually from broiler chickens which have been floured or battered and then pan-fried, deep fried, or pressure fried. The breading adds a crisp coating or crust to the exterior. What separates fried chicken from other fried forms of chicken is that generally the chicken is cut at the joints and the bones and skin are left intact. Crisp well-seasoned skin, rendered of excess fat, is a hallmark of well made fried chicken
It is important to be familiar with the terms used to describe the chicken, how much to buy, know what to look for on the labels, and know what to look for when visually checking the meat. For more information on making a purchase suited to your needs, select one of the topics above. Description of Parts. The leg of the chicken consists of two parts, which are the thigh and the drumstick. Consist of dark meat only. Thigh: The top portion of the leg above the knee joint that is connected to the body of the chicken. Consists of all dark meat. Drumstick: The bottom portion of the leg below the knee joint.
1 While a chicken breast with skin (light meat) is about 36% fat and a chicken leg with skin (dark meat) is about 44% fat, the chicken breast drops down to 19% fat when skinned and the chicken leg only drops down to 40%. 