San Francisco Bay is a shallow estuary that drains water from approximately forty percent of California. Water from the Sacramento and San Joaquin rivers, and from the Sierra Nevada mountains passes through the Bay to the Pacific Ocean. The waterway entrance to San Francisco Bay from the Pacific Ocean is called the Golden Gate. Across the strait spans the Golden Gate Bridge. The bay was designated a Ramsar Wetland of International Importance on February 2, 2013.
Welcome. We have been located in beautiful Deep Bay, BC, Canada since 1997. Deep Bay Harbour facilities include protected moorage with power, excellent water and pumpouts. We are within walking or dinghy distance to the cafe and store. Our club enjoys reciprocal privileges with most yacht clubs in the Pacific Northwest. The Deep Bay Harbour is located on the east shore of Vancouver Island opposite the Chrome Island Lighthouse and at the south end of Baynes Sound. Lat. 49°28’, Long. 124°44’ (Charts 3527 detailed and 3513 large area).
San Francisco Bay is in the U.S. state of California, surrounded by a contiguous region known as the San Francisco Bay Area (often simply the Bay Area), dominated by the large cities San Francisco, Oakland, and San Jose. The waterway entrance to San Francisco Bay from the Pacific Ocean is called the Golden Gate. Across the strait spans the Golden Gate Bridge. The bay was designated a Ramsar Wetland of International Importance on February 2, 2013.
Deep Water Bay (Chinese: 深水灣) is a bay and residential area on the southern shore of Hong Kong Island in Hong Kong. The bay is surrounded by Shouson Hill, Brick Hill, Violet Hill and Middle Island. As per Forbes (July 2015), with 19 of the city's richest billionaires, it is reputed to be the wealthiest neighborhood on earth. Beneath the hill of Violet Hill is a beach, Deep Water Bay Beach. The bay is reachable by Island Road, a road connecting Repulse Bay and Wong Chuk Hang. Deep Water Bay is the landing point for SEA-ME-WE 3, TGN-IA and TVH submarine telecommunications cables
Deep Water Bay residential Area [edit]. Deep water bay is among the most exclusive residential areas of Hong Kong as per Forbes and Forbes Life. 19 of the city’s richest billionaires live here, with a net aggregate worth of $123 billion (as of August 2015). Beneath the hill of Violet Hill is a beach, Deep Water Bay Beach. The bay is reachable by Island Road, a road connecting Repulse Bay and Wong Chuk Hang.
Large ships transiting the bay must follow deep underwater channels that are maintained by frequent dredging as the average depth of the Bay is only as deep as a swimming pool—approximately 12 to 15 ft (3.7 to 4.6 m). Between Hayward and San Mateo to San Jose it is 12 to 36 in (300 to 910 mm). The waterway entrance to San Francisco Bay from the Pacific Ocean is called the Golden Gate. Across the strait spans the Golden Gate Bridge. The bay was designated a Ramsar Wetland of International Importance on February 2, 2013.
Bowser-Deep Bay Real Estate Listings. Save search. You will receive new listings matching your search criteria right in your inbox. You can edit your search title and choose your email updates preferences. Searching houses for sale in Bowser-Deep Bay (BC) has never been more convenient. With Point2 Homes, you can easily browse through Bowser-Deep Bay (BC) homes for sale, townhomes, condos and commercial properties from Bowser-Deep Bay (BC) Real Estate Agents and Home Builder