To force quit: 1  Leave the Instagram app by pressing the Home button on your phone. 2  Double-click the Home button and a tray will pop up. 3  Press and hold the Instagram icon for 5 seconds until the icon starts to shake. 4  Tap the red minus button that pops up on the Instagram icon. To force quit: 1  Leave the Instagram app by pressing the Home button on your phone. 2  The Home button is the physical button at the bottom of your phone with the white square on it. 3
If you want to post your Instagram images directly to a WordPress blog, you can do that by using Polevaultweb's Instagrate to WordPress plugin (Figure A). You can set up the plugin so that publishing an Instagram image automatically creates a WordPress blog post with the image title as the blog post title. 
1 Leave the Instagram app by pressing the Home button on your phone. 2  The Home button is the physical button at the bottom of your phone with the white square on it. 3  Double-click the Home button and a tray will pop up. 4  Press and hold the Instagram icon for 5 seconds until the icon starts to shake. To force quit: 1 
If you're using Instagram and you get stuck while processing a photo, please try force quitting the app. Apple iOS. To force quit: 1  Leave the Instagram app by pressing the Home button on your phone. 2  The Home button is the physical button at the bottom of your phone with the white square on it. 3  Double-click the Home button and a tray will pop up. 4  Press and hold the Instagram icon for 5 seconds until the icon starts to shake
To upload a photo from your desktop, click the camera button, then select the polaroid icons in the lower-right of the app window. This will prompt you to select a photo from your drive. (If you use Instagram on Android, this entire process will be familiar.) Then, edit and upload the photo as usual. Note: The Android Dropbox app doesn’t allow you to share directly to Instagram, so that’s the reason for opening the photo in the gallery first.
Windows Phone. To take a new photo: tap. If you'd like to turn the camera to face you, tap. To adjust the flash, tap. You can also record a video. To upload a photo from your phone's library, tap Camera Roll and select the photo you'd like to share.
Take a picture or choose one from your phone's storage. All posts on Instagram are pictures. Tap the big blue button to take a picture, or tap the Gallery button to the left to browse through the photos stored on your device. You can also tap the video camera button to record a 15-second video. 1 Select a filter from the list. 2  One of Instagram's main features is the variety of filters you can apply to your picture. 3  These color and processing filters can make your photo shine in new ways. 4  Swipe left and right to try all of the different filters.
But you can set up Instagram to share with your Facebook page by default. Here's how: 1  To share a photo on a Facebook Page instead of your personal account, launch Instagram and view the Options page. 2  In the iOS app, you can find the Options page by viewing your profile, then tapping on the gear icon. 1 To share a photo on a Facebook Page instead of your personal account, launch Instagram and view the Options page. 2  In the iOS app, you can find the Options page by viewing your profile, then tapping on the gear icon. 3  On Android, view your profile and tap on the Menu icon in the top-right corner. 4  Select Share Settings..
To take a photo or upload one from your phone or tablet's photo library, first tap (iOS and Android) or (Windows Phone) at the bottom of the app. iOS and Android. To take a new photo: tap the blue circle. If you'd like to turn the camera to face you, tap. To adjust the flash, tap. You can also record a video. To take a new photo: tap. If you'd like to turn the camera to face you, tap. To adjust the flash, tap. You can also record a video. To upload a photo from your phone's library, tap Camera Roll and select the photo you'd like to share.