Lincolnshire (/ˈlɪŋkənʃər/ or /ˈlɪŋkənʃɪər/ ; abbreviated Lincs) is a historical county in the east of England. Two commissioners were elected within Lincolnshire, one to cover the Lincolnshire Police Force Area whilst voters in North Lincolnshire and North East Lincolnshire voted for a commissioner within the Humberside Police Force Area.
Lincolnshire derived from the merging of the territory of the ancient Kingdom of Lindsey with that controlled by the Danelaw borough of Stamford. For some time the entire county was called Lindsey, and it is recorded as such in the 11th-century Domesday Book. Two commissioners were elected within Lincolnshire, one to cover the Lincolnshire Police Force Area whilst voters in North Lincolnshire and North East Lincolnshire voted for a commissioner within the Humberside Police Force Area.
You are in Lincolnshire County (East Midlands, England, United Kingdom), administrative region of level 3. Continue further in the list below the place you are interested in. Aby-Yarburgh. 1  Aby-Barkston. 2  Barnby in the Willows-Blankney. 3  Bloxholm-Burgh le Marsh. 4  Burton-Colsterworth. 5  Coningsby-Dorrington. 6  Drayton-Fishtoft. With comprehensive destination gazetteer, maplandia.com enables to explore Lincolnshire County through detailed satellite imagery — fast and easy as never before. Browse the list of administrative regions below and follow the navigation to find populated
With the exception of a small area to the south-west of the county, Lincolnshire is served from the Belmont transmitter, receiving programmes from ITV Yorkshire and BBC One Yorkshire and Lincolnshire regions. Two commissioners were elected within Lincolnshire, one to cover the Lincolnshire Police Force Area whilst voters in North Lincolnshire and North East Lincolnshire voted for a commissioner within the Humberside Police Force Area.
Lincolnshire Fens (Boston, Holbeach, Spalding, The Deepings). A completely flat landscape sewn together by large waterways and canals from the Wash which is an important area for wildlife. Windmills [edit]. Lincolnshire has an impressive number of well-preserved and working windmills that often still make and sell their own produce: 1  Alford Windmill [40] in Alford is a five-sailed windmill built in 1837 which is often considered to be one of the finest working mills in England.
You are in North Lincolnshire (Yorkshire and Humberside, England, United Kingdom), administrative region of level 3. Continue further in the list below the place you are interested in. Adlingfleet-Wroot. 1  Adlingfleet-Barton upon Humber. 2  Belton-Burringham. 3  Burton upon Stather-Eastoft. Welcome to google maps North Lincolnshire locations list, welcome to the place where google maps sightseeing make sense! With comprehensive destination gazetteer, maplandia.com enables to explore North Lincolnshire through detailed satellite imagery — fast and easy as never before.
This is a chart of trend of regional gross value added of Lincolnshire at current basic prices published (pp. 240–253) by Office for National Statistics with figures in millions of British Pounds Sterling. Two commissioners were elected within Lincolnshire, one to cover the Lincolnshire Police Force Area whilst voters in North Lincolnshire and North East Lincolnshire voted for a commissioner within the Humberside Police Force Area.
Welcome to google maps Lincolnshire County locations list, welcome to the place where google maps sightseeing make sense! With comprehensive destination gazetteer, maplandia.com enables to explore Lincolnshire County through detailed satellite imagery — fast and easy as never before. Browse the list of administrative regions below and follow the navigation to find populated place you are interested in.