Whole wheat flour goes rancid. There is a lot of fat in wheat germ and when it oxidizes the flour becomes very bitter and has a very noticeable, unpleasant scent. First of all-if you use bleached white flour there is little to worry about. Bleached flour has had much of the wheat removed to give it a longer shelf life.
It is easiest to tell if whole wheat flour has gone bad because it will develop a rancid smell. Since whole wheat flour is made using the entire grain, it retains some essential oils from the grain and these will degrade over time and
The shelf life of flour depends on the best before date and how it is stored. Flour is a powder made by grinding cereal grains, seeds or roots. Many types exist on the grocers shelves some of which are corn (maize), rice, wheat, whole-wheat, potato, and then there is cake, bread, and self-rising flour.
If yu call yourself a cook, you need to know whether flour can go bad, how long does it last, or how to tell if flour is bad. Those are the most important information about this component that you should be aware of.
White flour is common enough that you’ve probably consumed it at some point in your life. Just because it’s common, however, doesn’t mean it’s good. In fact, it has a number of downsides and negative effects on your health. Take your pick — an overall lack of nutrients, highly-refined carbohydrates, or the gluten.
Summary. Flour does go bad and that’s perfectly normal. If you want to be able to store it for an extended period of time, you should consider storing it in the refrigerator or the freezer. The number one enemy of flour is moisture – you need to remember that it’s critical to store flour in a dry place.
You can check to see if your flour has gone bad or rancid, by smelling it. Rancid flour will have an off smell, an indicator that it is not longer suitable for use, and should be discarded and replaced with fresh flour.
How To Tell If Flour Is Bad. The easiest thing to spot that indicates that you should discard the flour is the presence of the so-called flour bugs. They look similarly to moth larvae, but their look doesn’t really matter, if you encounter in your flour anything that’s alive, throw the flour out.