Dogs of this size require between 3/4 cup and 1 cup of food per day. If you plan to feed your dog twice a day, give him about 1/2 cup of food for each meal. To add wet food to your dog's diet, cut the amount of dry food in half and add an equal volume of wet food. Dogs weighing less than 10 pounds require only between 1/4 cup and 3/4 cup of dry food per day. Very active toy breed dogs may eat as much as 1 cup of food on a daily basis.
Well, don’t just blindly follow the directions on a dog food package. That’s because manufacturers like to “hedge” by suggesting an overly broad “range” of serving sizes. For example, a bag of kibble might read… “for dogs from 5 to 15 pounds feed 1/2… to… 1-1/2 cups a day”. Wow. I feed her dry dog food twice a day 1 3/4 cup per serving. I would like to switch to homemade recipes, e.g. brown rice, chicken/turkey and potatoes. How much per serving is sufficient.
I would just feed her one can of it but i heard wet dog food is not good for your dog's teeth but i feed my dog wet and dry food and the vet said that if he were to tell how old my dog was by her teeth he would have guessed that she was 2 and my dog is actually almost 4. Alexa · 7 years ago. Thumbs up. 0. 
These dogs may require as much as 2 1/2 cups of dry food per day. To add wet food to your large breed dog's diet, substitute about 1 cup of wet food for half of your dog's daily allotment of food. Dogs weighing less than 10 pounds require only between 1/4 cup and 3/4 cup of dry food per day. Very active toy breed dogs may eat as much as 1 cup of food on a daily basis.
If the pup does not eat at one of the feedings, don't add more food later. Each feeding, regardless of if it is eaten or not, should contain 1/4 cup of food. When the pup is between 3 to 6 months old feed three meals per day. Remember to check the manufacturer's recommendations on how much to feed. As your puppy ages, his size increases, and he will need more food each day. This amount of food is divided into 3 feedings. 
If your dog weighs up to 10 lbs, you will want to feed them around one cup of food per day. If your dog weighs from 10 to 25 lbs, you need to feed your dog from 1 ½ to 2 ¼ cups per day. If your dog weighs from 25 to 50 lbs, they will require from 2 ¼ to 3 ¾ cups of food per day. Dogs that weigh from 50 to 75 lbs will need from 3 ¾ cups to 5 cups per day. If your dog weighs over 75 lbs, you will want to feed them from 5 to 8 cups of dog food per day. These are the general guidelines for dry food formulas, and should be adjusted when feeding your dog canned food formulas. 
You would give her 20grams meat, if you give her 150 grams of dog food in one meal, then increase by about 10% on each for every 10 gram so it would be 45 gram for veggies, 45 grams for sweet potato and pumpkin mix and 30 grams of beans, with meat being 30 grams. It has 409 kcal/cup. My vet told me to feed her 2 cups twice a day when before when I had her on another dog food she told me to feed her only two cups a day. And do not follow the dog food bag. The dog food bag for my dogs weight is only 2 1/8- 3
I have a 18 month female Terrier/Catahoula that weighs about 70 pounds. I feed her dry dog food twice a day 1 3/4 cup per serving. I would like to switch to homemade recipes, e.g. brown rice, chicken/turkey and potatoes. How much per serving is sufficient.
My 14lbs JRT get about a half cup a day, but it depends on the calorie count and the individual dog, so no one can really answer your question, except to say keep a close eye on her weight and body condition and adjust as needed. How much homemade dog food should I feed my 14 y.o. 7 lb., toy poodle per day. I feed her dry dog food twice a day 1 3/4 cup per serving. I would like to switch to homemade recipes, e.g. brown rice, chicken/turkey and potatoes. How much per serving is sufficient.
The amount of food your dog requires will vary depending on his age and breed, but a dog's weight is one of the most accurate ways to judge how much to feed a dog. Small breed dogs such as toy poodles, Yorkshire terriers and Chihuahuas typically weigh less than 10 pounds. Dogs weighing less than 10 pounds require only between 1/4 cup and 3/4 cup of dry food per day. Very active toy breed dogs may eat as much as 1 cup of food on a daily basis.