The term wind power describes the process by which wind is used to make the mechanical energy or electricity. Wind turbines convert the kinetic energy of wind energy into mechanical power. This mechanical power may be used for certain activities (such as milling of rice or pumping water) or a generator can convert mechanical energy to electrical energy at home, business, schools and other facilities. 
Okay, if we get technical, energy is not formed by a generator. Actually, a generator CONVERTS energy from one form to another and it often uses several conversions. I assume you are asking about an electrical generator. There are many types of devices that generate lots of different things that we call generators. Let's stick to electrical generators though. 
A generator is used to convert mechanical energy to electrical  energy. A motor converts electrical energy to mechanical energy.    Rather than try to explain the theo … ry of how a generator can  convert mechanical energy to electrical energy, click on the link  below.
No. A transformer doesn't source or sink energy, or convert energy from one form to another. The ideal transformer merely changes the parameters of an electrical current, with no effect on energy levels. A non-ideal (real-life) transformer decreases the energy in the electrical circuit, because its losses. A motor converts electrical energy to mechanical energy.    Rather than try to explain the theo … ry of how a generator can  convert mechanical energy to electrical energy, click on the link  below.
Electromagnetic induction is used to convert electrical energy to mechanical energy and it is also used to convert mechanical energy to electrical energy. Tachometers measure the rotational speed of a motor's shaft and force sensors measure a motor's torque. Energy Conversion. Definition: The process of changing one form of energy into another. For example, the chemical energy in gasoline can be converted into kinetic energy (energy of motion) by an automobile engine. Definition obtained from the K - 12 Energy Education Program (KEEP).
Electric energy is then converted to useful mechanical energy by motors. And mechanical energy is converted to electrical energy by electric generators. The Energy Story is a good website that describes what energy is. How energy and work are related. Energy Conversion. Definition: The process of changing one form of energy into another. For example, the chemical energy in gasoline can be converted into kinetic energy (energy of motion) by an automobile engine. Definition obtained from the K - 12 Energy Education Program (KEEP).
Energy Unit Converter. Energy Unit Converter Online is online conversion tool that allows you to convert units of energy/heat/work given in one system of measurment to the other system. 
Energy-Conversion. In physics, energy is an indirectly observed physics quantities, also is one of the basic quantitative properties that describes the object's state or a physics system. The energy can be converted to in different forms, however, its total energy is not changed. The common energy forms include the radiant energy, kinetic energy and various types of potential energy. It is a scalar. The SI unit of energy is joules, symbol J. 
1 Chemical energy in the coal converted to thermal energy in the exhaust gases of combustion. 2  Thermal energy of the exhaust gases converted into thermal energy of steam through the heat exchanger. 3  Thermal energy of steam converted to mechanical energy in the turbine. In a conventional automobile, these energy transformations are involved: 1  Chemical energy in the fuel converted to kinetic energy of expanding gas via combustion. 2  Kinetic energy of expanding gas converted to linear piston movement. 3  Linear piston movement converted to rotary crankshaft movement.
Energy transformation or energy conversion is the process of changing one form of energy to one other. In physics, the term energy describes the capacity to produce certain changes within any system, without regard to limitations in transformation imposed. In a conventional automobile, these energy transformations are involved: 1  Chemical energy in the fuel converted to kinetic energy of expanding gas via combustion. 2  Kinetic energy of expanding gas converted to linear piston movement. 3  Linear piston movement converted to rotary crankshaft movement.