Just a rough estimate...ok to build a normal sized reception hall would be $200,000. Architects fees are the LEAST of your expenses. A rough estimate is it will take a year to build it. You should negotiate your contract with a reduction in cost if they go over the time limit. Answers. Best Answer: A venues cost are the breakdown of material and square footage. Without knowing if you want Italian marble brought over or merely painted concrete, without knowing if you are planning on a hall to hold 100 people or 1000 people, it would be impossible to answer this. That's like saying how much is a house
Average Cost. On average the cost of renting a banquet hall, without catering, is between $500 and $2,500 for the space rental. According to The Bridal Association of America the average cost of a banquet hall is $1,244. 
Step 1. Ensure there is a demand for a banquet hall in the community where you have chosen to set up operations by conducting a business feasibility study and check out the competition ---banquet halls and convention center facilities in your prospective geographic market. How to Start Your Own Banquet Hall. A banquet hall can be used for a variety of special events. Creatas Images/Creatas/Getty Images. Banquet halls are leased to host professional seminars, corporate award ceremonies, weddings, family reunions, church benefits, association fund-raisers and an assortment of other events.
1 On average, the cost of renting a banquet hall without any sort of catering or other services is going to range anywhere between $500 and $1,800. 1 For example, an up-scale hotel such as the Hilton will rent out their banquet halls at around $55 to $70 per person. 2  This is going to include the food, the setup, and more.
Shopping for a wedding reception venue: 1  Tip: Couples can save $200 to $2,000 or more by finding a location for both the ceremony and the reception. 2  But, if chairs must be moved from the wedding area to reception area, you might be charged up to $3 per chair for the service. 1 Tip: Couples can save $200 to $2,000 or more by finding a location for both the ceremony and the reception. 2  But, if chairs must be moved from the wedding area to reception area, you might be charged up to $3 per chair for the service. 3  Some facilities require that a licensed bartender serve any alcoholic drinks.
1 For those that want to have a catering service come to the banquet hall, or use the service within the hall, the catering service is going to start at $8 a person and may reach as high as $80 a person depending on what type of food you want served. 1 For example, an up-scale hotel such as the Hilton will rent out their banquet halls at around $55 to $70 per person. 2  This is going to include the food, the setup, and more.
1 A reception in a private room in a casual or ethnic restaurant, such as barbecue or Chinese, or a bar might cost as little as $50 to $250 for a room rental fee, plus a per-person cost for food and beverage that can be as little as $15 to $20. 2  Other similarly priced venues include rooms at city, county or state parks. 1 Tip: Couples can save $200 to $2,000 or more by finding a location for both the ceremony and the reception. 2  But, if chairs must be moved from the wedding area to reception area, you might be charged up to $3 per chair for the service. 3  Some facilities require that a licensed bartender serve any alcoholic drinks.
how much does it cost to rent a banquet hall.... 12. 0. For a sat night for 6 hrs. Rate can change base on day etc. How much does it cost to rent a banquet hall. Because of your expertise I was hoping you may be able to shed some light on the subject. 