Aims of sphincteroplasty or reconstruction of the anal sphincter is to bridge a defect or tear of the muscular coating of the anal canal. Such a procedure can only correct the muscular component responsible for the development of fecal incontinence (5, 19). 
If your anal sphincter was damaged during childbirth, anal surgery, or other trauma, your physician may suggest a sphincteroplasty to repair it and help treat fecal incontinence. The external anal sphincter forms a ring around the anus. If there is a breach or interruption in the ring of muscle, you may not be able to close it tightly enough to keep stool in. During a sphincteroplasty, the surgeon will reattach the damaged ends and stitch them together to create a complete ring of muscle. This restores the anus to its proper shape. Sphincteroplasty has been used for decades and is the most common surgery used to treat fecal incontinence. It is very safe. However, the effectiveness of sphincteroplasty may differ for different kinds of patients. Therefore, careful evaluation before surgery is important
Overlapping Sphincteroplasty. An overlapping sphincteroplasty is an operation performed to restore normal anal sphincter anatomy following an injury, or disruption, to the anal sphincter muscle that has led to the development of fecal incontinence. Oftentimes, this injury is the result of trauma from a vaginal delivery. 
The sphincter of Oddi refers to the smooth muscle that surrounds the end portion of the common bile duct and pancreatic duct. This muscle relaxes during a meal to allow bile and pancreatic juice to flow into the intestine. This also refers to the expansion of an organ or a vessel.) and stenting, in an attempt to preserve sphincter function, have not been found to be effective in reducing sphincter of Oddi pressure or symptoms. This technique is also associated with unacceptably high complication rates.
If your anal sphincter was damaged during childbirth, anal surgery, or other trauma, your physician may suggest a sphincteroplasty to repair it. The external anal sphincter forms a ring around the anus. If there is a breach or interruption in the ring of muscle, you may not be able to close it tightly enough to keep stool in. During a sphincteroplasty, the surgeon will reattach the damaged ends and stitch them together to create a complete ring of muscle. 
Other conditions can also damage the sphincter and require corrective surgery. With rectal or anal sphincter repair, the ends of the two circular anal muscles that control bowel movements are cut and overlapped onto one another and then sewn into place, creating a complete circle of muscle.
Sphincteroplasty: the surgical reconstruction of a sphincter muscle. This usually refers to the procedure that can be done on the muscles of the anal sphincter that control bowel movements. With obstetric trauma during vaginal delivery of a baby, this sphincter can become damaged and result in incontinence of stool. With rectal or anal sphincter repair, the ends of the two circular anal muscles that control bowel movements are cut and overlapped onto one another and then sewn into place, creating a complete circle of muscle.
Sphincteroplasty is a procedure in which the muscle between the rectum and vagina is closed in multiple tissue layers. • After you are asleep and before the surgery starts: o A tube to help you breathe will be placed in your throat. o A catheter will be inserted into your bladder to drain urine and to. monitor the amount of urine coming out during surgery. The. catheter will be removed shortly after surgery.
Use 46750/46751 per age.A sphincteroplasty is the reconstruction of the anal sphincter. Patient is placed in lithotomy position. After administration of anesthesia, Physician makes an incision is made at the midline of the perineal area and cuts the two ends of the muscle and overlap it onto one another. This restores and strengthens the ring of muscle around the opening to the anal canal along with giving a proper shape for normal functioning. Patient is placed in lithotomy position. After administration of anesthesia, the physician makes a midline perianal incision and performs a sphincteroplasty.