Learn about the causes of eye allergies, symptoms, and how you can properly treat them. An eye allergy, known as allergic conjunctivitis, is an immune reaction on the surface of the eye. Histamines are released to the area of contact, which causes symptoms such as red, itchy, or watery eyes. 
Another common cause of rash around the eyes is contact dermatitis, in which inflammatory reactions result from contact with objects such as eyeglasses, swimming goggles, or anything worn on the face. This can cause redness, flakiness, and irritation. It can be worsened by the physical contact of hands scratching the area. The use of new products on the face and around the eyes can also lead to allergic reactions on sensitive skin. Examples of products that can cause a rash around the eyes are eye make-up, mascara, facial soap, and facial wash, exfoliating scrubs, moisturizing cream, sunscreen lotion or other cosmetic products
Eye allergies also can be caused by reactions to certain cosmetics or eye drops, including artificial tears used for treating dry eyes that contain preservatives. Food allergies and allergic reactions to bee stings or other insect bites typically do not affect the eyes as severely as airborne allergens do. If your allergy symptoms are relatively severe or over-the-counter eye drops are ineffective at providing relief, you may need your eye doctor to prescribe a stronger medication. Prescription eye drops and oral medications used to relieve eye allergies include: 1  Antihistamines.
Swollen, puffy eyes are a common symptom in allergic reactions. Photo Credit Comstock/Comstock/Getty Images. For many allergy sufferers, the first sign of an allergic reaction is an uncomfortable tight sensation around the eyes. This sensation results from swelling of both the upper and lower eyelids. The eyelids may also become reddened and begin to itch. A wide variety of allergies can produce this reaction. Hay Fever. The most common cause of swollen eyes is an allergic reaction to airborne pollen, commonly known as hay fever.. Different types of pollen affect different people, meaning that individuals can react differently to the same environment.
Introduction. Angioedema is swelling that happens just below the surface of the skin, most often around the lips and eyes. When you have an allergic reaction, your body produces histamine, which causes blood vessels to swell. Angioedema is like hives, but with hives there are itchy red welts on the surface of your skin. 
You can be allergic to: 1  Pollen from grasses, weeds, and trees. 2  Dust, pet dander, and other indoor allergens. 3  Makeup, perfume, or other chemicals can trigger eye allergies called contact conjunctivitis. 4  An allergy to contact lenses, called giant papillary conjunctivitis, makes eyes sensitive and red. When you have allergies, your body reacts to things that aren't really harmful, like pollen, dust mites, mold, or pet dander. It releases histamine, a chemical that causes swelling and inflammation. The blood vessels in your eyes swell and your eyes get red, teary, and itchy.
Eye allergies usually are associated with other allergic conditions, particularly hay fever (allergic rhinitis) and atopic eczema (dermatitis). The causes of eye allergies are similar to those of allergic asthma and hay fever. Medications and cosmetics can play a significant role in causing eye allergies. Reactions to eye irritants and other eye conditions (for example, infections such as pink eye) are often confused with eye allergy. Any kind of irritant, whether environmental, infectious, or manmade, can cause symptoms consistent with eye allergies. Medically Reviewed by a Doctor on 4/11/2014. This certainly can't be true if our eyes are red, swollen, watery, and itchy from an allergic reaction. Severe allergic eye symptoms can be very distressing and are a common reason for visits to the allergist, ophthalmologist, and even the emergency room.
Following are some allergic causes of dark circles around the eyes: 1. Seasonal: Seasonal allergies such as food allergies, hay fever, cosmetic allergies and allergens from the workplace or home, cause dark circles. Allergies results in inflammation that expands the tiny blood vessels under eyes. 
You can also have red, swollen, and itchy eyes. The usual suspects -- pollen, dust mites, pet dander, feathers, and other indoor or outdoor allergens -- can set off eye allergy symptoms. To treat them, find out what triggers them and stay ahead of the symptoms. Eye drops and other medications can bring relief. When you have allergies, your body reacts to things that aren't really harmful, like pollen, dust mites, mold, or pet dander. It releases histamine, a chemical that causes swelling and inflammation. The blood vessels in your eyes swell and your eyes get red, teary, and itchy.