Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) is characterized by repetitive, unwanted, intrusive thoughts (obsessions) and irrational, excessive urges to do certain actions (compulsions). Although people with OCD may know that their thoughts and behavior don't make sense, they are often unable to stop them. 
Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) was described as early as the seventeenth century, when the Oxford Don, Robert Burton, reported a case in his compendium, The Anatomy of Melancholy (1621). Modern concepts of OCD began to evolve in France and Germany in the nineteenth century. 
One of the most career-debilitating bone afflictions of young horses is osteochondritis dissecans (OCD), a developmental orthopedic disease that's invisible to the eye. OCD can be defined simply as an interruption in bone development. During normal bone growth, cartilage is remodeled into bone. 
The condition osteochondrosis dissecans in horses, also know as OCD in horses, is self-limiting in some cases and crippling for others, yet a series of uncertainties makes identifying the problem, deciding on treatment options and providing an accurate prognosis far from straightforward. Problems begin within the first 12 months of development, as the foal’s growing skeleton matures. Essentially soft cartilage cells are converted to more solid bone by a process known as endochondral ossification. In OCD-affected animals, this natural process fails to function fully.
The most common sign of OCD is effusion in the joint of a young horse. Colorado State University found that 55.9% of the horses presented to them with OCD were young horses (less than one-year old). Skeletal growth is rapid during the first twelve months; at six months of age bone mineralization is 68% complete. After categorizing radiographs over a fifteen year period he began seeing more and more horse fractures, equine bone spurs, Epiphysitis in horses, OCD in horses, Sesamoiditis in horses etc. This general breakdown of the equine skeletal system became a serious concern of his and his clients
It is easy to use one scoop (1 oz) per day, full strength and two scoops (2 oz) per day for horses with bone problems. OCD™ Pellets are cost effective and depending on the amount you buy may cost less than $1.00 per day. OCD™ Pellets will help your equine athletes to be successful for sales, showing, or racing. After categorizing radiographs over a fifteen year period he began seeing more and more horse fractures, equine bone spurs, Epiphysitis in horses, OCD in horses, Sesamoiditis in horses etc. This general breakdown of the equine skeletal system became a serious concern of his and his clients
Most horses with shoulder OCD present at one year of age or younger, with a history of forelimb lameness of variable severity. Many of these horses will have prominent lameness and if lameness has been present for many weeks, muscle atrophy will also be seen. 
The age of the horse and its intended use must also be considered. There is no simple answer for many of these cases, so it makes sense to discuss all the options with an equine orthopaedic specialist. Surgical advances and joint medication have certainly helped manage OCD in individual horses. Problems begin within the first 12 months of development, as the foal’s growing skeleton matures. Essentially soft cartilage cells are converted to more solid bone by a process known as endochondral ossification. In OCD-affected animals, this natural process fails to function fully.
Signs can be seen as early as 5 months of age, but may not occur until the horse is started into work. Lameness varies with location and severity of the OCD; most horses are sound at a walk but may display lameness at faster speeds or when put into work. OCDs can occur in virtually all joints, but they occur most frequently in the hock, stifle and fetlock joints. Overview: Osteochondritis dissecans (OCD) is a relatively common developmental disease that affects the cartilage and bone in the joints of horses. It causes clinical signs of disease in 5-25% of all horses and can occur in all horse breeds.