Put all the eggs in pan then put enough water to cover the eggs heat to boiling. Turn down the heat to very low and cook eggs to desired hardness 3-5min for soft boiled and 10-12 for hard boiled. Remove from hot water and emerged in cold water for easy peeling. · just now. Report Abuse. Place your eggs in cold water and when it starts boiling, time it for 10 minutes, then place them in cold water or water with ice to stop the cooking process. If cooked too long, the outside part of the yolk will turn green. If it's not green, you know you're doing it right. Verna T · 9 years ago. Thumbs up
The length of time it takes to hard boil an egg depends on the size and type of the egg. First, put eggs in a pan and fill with enough cold water to cover eggs completely, then bring water to a rapid boil. As soon as the water reaches a rapid boil, remove pan from heat and cover egg pan tightly with a lid. Let sit 12 minutes for regular-sized eggs, 17 minutes for large eggs and 20 minutes for jumbo eggs. Transfer eggs immediately to cold water and let cool at least 10 minutes.
Depending on how cooked you like your hard boiled eggs, the eggs should be done perfectly in 10-12 minutes. That said, depending on your altitude, the shape of the pan, the size of the eggs, the ratio of water to eggs, it can take a few minutes more. If you need easy-to-peel eggs and you have fresh eggs, you might want to try steaming the eggs for 15 minutes. Pour an inch of water into a pot and insert a steamer basket.Bring to a boil. Place the eggs in the steamer basket, cover and steam for 15 minutes (more or less, check!).
As soon as the water reaches a rapid boil, remove pan from heat and cover egg pan tightly with a lid. Set timer for 17 minutes for large eggs or 20 minutes for jumbo eggs. After 17 or 20 minutes (depending on size of your eggs), remove lid and drain off water from the eggs. 
Place the eggs in the pot, cover it and bring it to a boil. Boil the eggs 3 minutes for soft boiled eggs or 10 minutes for hard boiled. 
Soft: Bring a pot of water to a boil over high heat. Reduce the heat to low, then add your eggs and cook 4 to 5 minutes. Drain, cool in ice water and peel. Medium: Bring a pot of water to a boil over high heat. Reduce the heat to low, then add your eggs and cook 7 to 8 minutes. Drain, cool in ice water and peel. Hard: Place your eggs in a pot and cover with cold water by 1 inch. Bring to a boil over medium-high heat, then cover, remove from the heat and set aside 8 to 10 minutes. Drain, cool in ice water and peel. How to Make Deviled Eggs: Transfer hard-boiled eggs to a bowl of ice water with a slotted spoon and let cool.
Allow three and a half minutes for a medium-sized egg and four minutes for a large egg. The yolk will be runny and the white just set. Cook for a further minute if you like your soft boiled eggs a little firmer. For a hard-boiled egg, start the egg in cold water and bring up to the boil. Once the water is gently boiling, set the timer for between 7-10 minutes depending on how well cooked you like your eggs. The longer you boil the egg, the firmer it will be. Once cooked, plunge the hard-boiled egg into plenty of cold water for one minute. 
Boil it for just on 4 minutes. For a soft-boiled egg, take it out and serve straight away. For a hard-boiled egg, turn off the heat and leave the egg in the pan for 10 minutes. 5. To hard boil an egg - 100% perfect every time: Eggs in pot-just cover with cold water do NOT cover with lid. Over medium heat bring to the boil-as soon as gently boiling, place lid on pot (ensure steam vent is off if this is a feature on lid) and turn heat OFF.