Management fee. There is a significant difference between commercial vs residential property management fees but the average management fee ranges between 4-12% of monthly rent. For a single family home you might expect to pay 10% in rental property management fees. This fee will vary based on the number of properties you need managed, the number of units in each property, the location and condition of the property, and most importantly, what services are included for that fee. This is why leasing fees as a stand alone service (meaning without other property management services) are typically much higher (75-100% of first months rent).
For Property Managers, New York provides a pay rate that is 56 percent greater than the national average. Property Managers will also find cushy salaries in Boston (+42 percent), San Francisco (+40 percent), Dallas (+29 percent), and Denver (+26 percent). Popular Skills for Property Manager. This chart shows the most popular skills for this job and what effect each skill has on pay. This chart shows the most popular skills for this job and what effect each skill has on pay. Property Managers seem to wield many skills on the job.
The annual salary for someone with the job title Property Manager may vary depending on a number of factors including industry, company size, location, years of experience and level of education. Job Description for Property Manager. Responsible for the maintenance of a portfolio of properties. Directs the buying, selling, and leasing of properties in the portfolio. May manage commercial, industrial, or residential
A Property Manager earns an average salary of C$49,333 per year. Most people with this job move on to other positions after 20 years in this field. The skills that increase pay for this job the most are Real Estate and Budget Management. 
Average property manager salaries for job postings nationwide are 18% lower than average salaries for all job postings nationwide. 
The median expected salary for a typical Property Manager in the United States is $78,865. This basic market pricing report was prepared using our Certified Compensation Professionals' analysis of survey data collected from thousands of HR departments at employers of all sizes, industries and geographies. 
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Residential Property Manager in the United States is $54,662, so 50% of the people who perform the job of Residential Property Manager in the United States are expected to make less than $54,662. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. 1  Salary. 2  Salary + Bonus. The annual salary for someone with the job title Residential Property Manager may vary depending on a number of factors including industry, company size, location, years of experience and level of education.
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Property Manager in the United States is $87,802 so 50% of the people who perform the job of Property Manager in the United States are expected to make less than $87,802. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. Median $87,802. Job Description for Property Manager. Responsible for the maintenance of a portfolio of properties. Directs the buying, selling, and leasing of properties in the portfolio. May manage commercial, industrial, or residential
Workers in their first five years can expect to earn $38K, but people who have been around for five to 10 years earn a noticeably bigger sum of $46K. Property Managers bring in $51K after working for 10 to 20 years. People who have worked for more than 20 years report a median income of $53K, which is barely higher than the median for folks with 10 to 20 years of experience. Popular Skills for Property Manager. This chart shows the most popular skills for this job and what effect each skill has on pay. This chart shows the most popular skills for this job and what effect each skill has on pay. Property Managers seem to wield many skills on the job.