Most importantly, to a bot fly we, humans, are a renewable resource it is in the bot fly s best interest that we live a very long life and thus can be reused hence the minimum amount of suffering that this species causes. To a lion we are nothing more than a one-time meal. Infection is not usually a big problem with bot fly larvae. If there is, use some antibiotic ointment-a little dab will do ya. With the phlebotomine (batlass) fly bites, if you pop the little blood blisters the itch is measured in hours. If you don't, the itch is measured in days.
Their larvae are internal parasites of mammals, some species growing in the host's flesh and others within the gut. The human botfly, Dermatobia hominis, is the only species of bot fly known to parasitize humans routinely, though other species of fly do cause myiasis in humans. Botflies deposit eggs on a host, or sometimes use an intermediate vector such as the common housefly, mosquitoes, and, in the case of Dermatobia hominis, a species of tick. The smaller fly is firmly held by the botfly female and rotated to a position where the botfly attaches some 30 eggs to the body under the wings.
A botfly, also written bot fly, bott fly or bot-fly in various combinations, is any fly in the family Oestridae. Their lifecycles vary greatly according to species, but the larvae of all species are internal parasites of mammals. Botflies deposit eggs on a host, or sometimes use an intermediate vector such as the common housefly, mosquitoes, and, in the case of Dermatobia hominis, a species of tick. The smaller fly is firmly held by the botfly female and rotated to a position where the botfly attaches some 30 eggs to the body under the wings.
Dermatobia fly eggs have been shown to be vectored by over 40 species of mosquitoes and muscoid flies, as well as one species of tick; the female captures the mosquito and attaches its eggs to its body, then releases it. 
Bot Flies, aka Torsalo or Dermatobia hominis Bot flies (Order Diptera, Family Cuterebridae) are large, stout bodied, hairy flies that resemble bumblebees. The botfly egg is deposited by a mosquito or sometimes by another insect. The larva grows in the host's body until it is fairly large. Infection is not usually a big problem with bot fly larvae. If there is, use some antibiotic ointment-a little dab will do ya. With the phlebotomine (batlass) fly bites, if you pop the little blood blisters the itch is measured in hours. If you don't, the itch is measured in days.
The human botfly, Dermatobia homosapienis, is the only species of bot fly whose larvae ordinarily parasitise humans, though flies in some other families episodically cause human myiasis, and are sometimes more harmful. Botflies deposit eggs on a host, or sometimes use an intermediate vector such as the common housefly, mosquitoes, and, in the case of Dermatobia hominis, a species of tick. The smaller fly is firmly held by the botfly female and rotated to a position where the botfly attaches some 30 eggs to the body under the wings.
According to Karen Griffith, bot flies have no other purpose in life but to lay eggs. Although it looks similar to a bee, it has no mouth and no stinger. However, in its lifespan, the adult female bot fly can lay between 100 and 300 eggs. Bot flies commonly lay their eggs on the hairs of horses for reproduction. They're also known to lay their eggs on mosquitoes, which can then inject the egg into a host organism that it bites. Bot Flies on Horses. Bot fly eggs appear as tiny tan specs and can be found on the horse's legs, flanks, shoulders, mane and chin. Where these eggs truly inflict their harm on the animal, however, is when the horse licks the egg-covered areas.
Adults of the Human Bot Fly (Dermatobia hominis) are free-living flies. Adults capture blood-sucking arthropods (such as mosquitoes) and lay eggs on their bodies, using a glue-like substance for adherence. Dermatobia hominis, also known as the tropical warble fly or human bot fly, are found in tropical and semi-tropical areas of the New World. These places are typically coffee-growing highlands, as D. hominis prefer hilly, moist, and cool secondary-forests.