Mechanical Energy. Mechanical energy is the energy that is possessed by an object due to its motion or due to its position. Mechanical energy can be either kinetic energy (energy of motion) or potential energy (stored energy of position). Mechanical Energy as the Ability to Do Work An object that possesses mechanical energy is able to do work. In fact, mechanical energy is often defined as the ability to do work. Any object that possesses mechanical energy-whether it is in the form of potential energy or kinetic energy-
Mechanical energy is the sum of kinetic and potential energy in an object that is used to do work. In other words, it is energy in an object due to its motion or position, or both. Mechanical energy is often confused with Kinetic and Potential Energy. We will try to make it very easy to understand and know the difference. Before that we need to understand the word ‘Work’ . ‘Work’ is done when a force acts on an object to cause it to move, change shape, displace, or do something physical.
Let's describe mechanical energy in more detail. As I said before, mechanical energy is the energy possessed by an object due to its movement or position. In other words, an object possesses mechanical energy when it has the ability to do work due to its position or motion. Mechanical energy can take the form of either kinetic energy, which is energy due to an object's motion, or potential energy, which is stored energy due to an object's position. Let's now look at some examples of mechanical energy. A demolition machine is a great example of both potential and kinetic mechanical energy. The wrecking ball possesses potential mechanical energy when it is raised to a vertical position above the ground.
Mechanical energy is the sum of energy in a mechanical system, or any group of objects that interact based on basic mechanical principles. This includes both kinetic energy, the energy of motion, and potential energy, the stored energy of position. General Background. Mechanical energy exists as both kinetic and potential energy in a system. Kinetic energy is present whenever an object is in motion. Potential energy is based on the position of an object; it is stored energy, and cannot do work on its own.
Mechanical Energy Facts. The mechanical energy of an object is the sum of its energy in motion and its stored motion. This means it is the sum of its kinetic and potential energy. Although the kinetic and potential energy of an object can change, its mechanical energy remains constant. The mechanical energy of an object is associated with the objects' position and motion. In a few cases, some mechanical energy is converted to heat resulting in less mechanical energy. Some machines or devices can convert heat into
Some uses of mechanical energy are: -It enables our body to do work-It makes work easier and faster-It is used to ransport goods and people from one place to another. … Some specific examples are: Transport, washing machines, lifts, electric generators, hammering rivets, lifting a shopping bag. 
The mechanical energy of an object is the sum of its energy in motion and its stored motion. This means it is the sum of its kinetic and potential energy. The mechanical energy of an object is associated with the objects' position and motion. In a few cases, some mechanical energy is converted to heat resulting in less mechanical energy. Some machines or devices can convert heat into
In the physical sciences, mechanical energy is the sum of potential energy and kinetic energy. It is the energy associated with the motion and position of an object. Energy is a scalar quantity and the mechanical energy of a system is the sum of the potential energy which is measured by the position of the parts of the system, and the kinetic energy which is also called the energy of motion: