In fact, Lockheed Martin is the largest provider of IT services, systems integration, and training to the U.S. Government. The remaining portion of Lockheed Martin's business is comprised of international government and some commercial sales of our products, services and platforms.
Lockheed Martin (NYSE:LMT) is one of the world's largest defense contractor by revenue. As a manufacturer of primarily electronic, information, aeronautic, and space systems, LMT has benefited from the increased defense spending that has accompanied the Afghan and Iraq War.
Lockheed Martin Corp. operates as a global security and aerospace company. The company is engaged in the research, design, development, manufacture, integration and sustainment of advanced technology systems, products and services. It also provides a broad range of management, engineering, technical...
Lockheed Martin (NYSE: LMT) is an American global aerospace, defense, security and advanced technologies company with worldwide interests. It was formed by the merger of Lockheed Corporation with Martin Marietta in March 1995. It is headquartered in Bethesda, Maryland, in the Washington, DC, area.
Lockheed Martin stands as one of the world's premier companies in the aerospace, defense, security, and technologies industry; it is the world's largest defense contractor based on revenue for fiscal year 2014.
CUSTOMER BASE: As a global security, aerospace, and information technology company, the majority of Lockheed Martin's business is with the U.S. Department of Defense and the U.S. federal government agencies.
In 2013, 78% of Lockheed Martin's revenues came from military sales; it topped the list of US federal government contractors and received nearly 10% of the funds paid out by the Pentagon.
Headquartered in Bethesda, Md., Lockheed Martin is a global security and aerospace company that employs about 112,000 people worldwide and is principally engaged in the research, design, development, manufacture, integration and sustainment of advanced technology systems, products and services.