Combined Restrictive/Malabsorptive Weight Loss Surgeries. Advantages: Most patients lose weight quickly and continue to lose for 18 to 24 months after the procedure. With the Roux-en-Y gastric bypass, many patients maintain a weight loss of 60 to 70 percent of their excess weight for 10 years or more. 
A new surgical weight-loss procedure is now available to women who are looking to slim down and lose 25 to 70 pounds. Dr. Tom Lavin, founder of Surgical Specialists in Louisiana, is a pioneer behind the hottest new weight-loss procedure called POSE, which stands for primary obesity surgery endoluminol. POSE is for patients who want to lose 25-50, maybe 60 or 70 pounds, says Lavin.
7. If I want to undergo a gastric bypass, how long do I have to wait? New evaluation appointments are usually booked 4-6 weeks in advance. Once a patient is seen, if the surgeon and patient agree it is appropriate, the patient is enrolled in our weight loss surgery program which is about 6 months.
One study shows that the average time from the point someone considers weight loss surgery to actually having the procedure is 3 years. A lot of time can be spent studying, reading and talking to post-op patients about their surgery. The average cost of gastric bypass surgery is $23,000, the average cost of lap band is $14,500, and the average cost of sleeve gastrectomy surgery is $14,900. So before getting too involved, spend time determining if your insurance will cover weight loss surgery
FAQ: Recovery After Surgery. Q: What is the recovery period for each type of weight loss surgery? A: One to three weeks for the Adjustable Gastric Band; two to three weeks for the Vertical Sleeve Gastrectomy; two to six weeks for the Roux-en-Y Gastric Bypass. Q: What will my diet look like after weight loss surgery? A: After surgery, you must learn how to eat again. You will consume full liquids (soups, protein drinks and yogurt) for one to three weeks, pureed foods for two to three weeks, and then soft, regular foods.
A Dr. Anthony Gonzalez, MD, Surgery, answered on behalf of Baptist Health South Florida. Typically, gastric band weight-loss surgery takes about 30 minutes; gastric sleeve and gastric bypass surgeries typically last for just under one hour. The hospital stay can be a day for gastric band surgery and up to two days for a gastric sleeve or gastric bypass procedure. At South Miami Hospital’s Weight-loss Surgery Program, we have processes in place to ensure patients receive the best care. 
Gastric Bypass. Initial weight loss with the gastric bypass is approximately 3 lbs. to 5 lbs. per week for the first 3 to 6 months. Over 18 months, a gastric bypass can result in the loss of about 65 percent to 75 percent of excess weight. 
Patients are asked to lose some weight prior to surgery in a healthy manner to optimize the results of the surgery itself, usually about 10% of their weight. Pre-Operative weight loss has been shown to shrink the liver size which may be enlarged and fatty in an obese person. 1 Write a letter to yourself and your surgeon explaining your reasons for having the surgery and outlining your plans to maintain your weight loss after surgery. 2  Start a journal about your experience. 3  Record how you feel now, the obstacles you encounter, the things you hope to be able to do
Qualifying for surgery as a weight loss option. Weight loss surgery is not right for everyone. You should take in consideration of all the hard work, lifestyle change and motivation it will take after surgery. 1 Write a letter to yourself and your surgeon explaining your reasons for having the surgery and outlining your plans to maintain your weight loss after surgery. 2  Start a journal about your experience. 3  Record how you feel now, the obstacles you encounter, the things you hope to be able to do
A. Again, your time off of work will depend on the type of weight loss surgery you have and the type of work you do. In general, plan to take about two to four weeks off of work. A. The amount of weight you lose -- and how fast you lose it -- depends on which weight loss surgery you have. Patients who have adjustable gastric banding (Lap-Band ®) procedures usually lose weight more slowly the first year than those who have gastric bypass (RYGB) or duodenal switch procedures (DS).