Jewelry in ancient Egypt was used primarily as amulets. The symbol, color, and material of the amulet all held significant meaning. Most popularly, amulets are seen among mummies placed on specific parts of the body to assist them into to afterlife. Ancient Egyptian Jewelry and Amulets. Much of our modern day jewelry and decor is based off of ancient Egyptian amulets and design. Through cataloging ancient jewelry we can see patterns that allow us to determine the significance and origination of jewelry in ancient culture as well as how it transcends to today.
In ancient Egypt, amulets might be carried, used in necklaces, bracelets, or rings, andespeciallyplaced among a mummy's bandages to ensure the deceased a safe, healthy, and productive afterlife. Egyptian amulets functioned in a number of ways. | More. An amulet is a small object that a person wears, carries, or offers to a deity because he or she believes that it will magically bestow a particular power or form of protection.
The scarab amulet was also placed on the heart of the deceased. The scarab is a symbol of the invisible power of creation which propels the sun through the skies. Sometimes the scarab is made in the form of a heart which strengthens the closeness of the relationship between the two amulets. The amulet of the two fingers represented the two fingers which Horus used to help his father, Osiris, up the ladder into heaven. It was placed inside of the mummy. The serpent amulet kept the body from being bitten by snakes in the underworld by means of the power of the great Snake-goddess Isis.
...thus I evolved myself under the evolutions of the god Khepri.... - Papyrus of Nesiamsu (Ptolemaic Period). By far the most important amulet in ancient Egypt was the scarab, symbolically as sacred to the Egyptians as the cross is to Christians. Scarabs were already known in the Old Kingdom, and in the First Intermediate Period the undersides were decorated. 
In Blog. The use of amulets played a very large part in ancient Egyptian religion. They were generally made of various materials including stones and were believed to transfer magical properties to the wearer. The Williams College Museum of Art possesses 160 amulets. The amulet of the two fingers represented the two fingers which Horus used to help his father, Osiris, up the ladder into heaven. It was placed inside of the mummy. The serpent amulet kept the body from being bitten by snakes in the underworld by means of the power of the great Snake-goddess Isis.
This is the definition of an ancient Egyptian amulet from The Met Museum : An amulet is a small object that a person wears, carries, or offers to a deity (god) because he or she believes it will magically bestow a particular power or form of protection.. Many were symbols, used to represent important things. For example, the lotus flower symbolized rebirth, or the coming of spring. A little charm shaped like an ancient Egyptian ankh symbolized life. All amulets in ancient Egypt had definite shapes and meanings.
Many amulets in ancient Egypt were shaped like animals. Others were shaped like gods. Many were symbols, used to represent important things. For example, the lotus flower symbolized rebirth, or the coming of spring. A little charm shaped like an ancient Egyptian ankh symbolized life. All amulets in ancient Egypt had definite shapes and meanings.
Potential amulets include gems, especially engraved gems, statues, coins, drawings, pendants, rings, plants, and animals; even words in the form of a magical spell or incantation to repel evil or bad luck. Amulets were particularly prevalent in ancient Roman society, being the inheritor of the ancient Greek tradition, and inextricably linked to Roman religion and magic (see Magic in the Greco-Roman World).
Egyptian Amulets. An amulet is an item that someone might wear or carry around with them in the belief that it will bring them good luck or protect them. People in today’s world often carry amulets like a good luck coin. In the times of ancient Egypt, part of their religious beliefs included that amulets were very important in bringing protection to them in their lives. In ancient Egypt amulets were created for a number of reasons.
The word amulet is derived from the Latin amuletum, which refers to an object that protects a person. An amulet is a small talisman that is often worn as jewelry, or simply carried. In ancient Egypt, many amulets were the shape of an animal, or took the form of hieroglyphics, gods or humans. They were intended to offer certain benefits to its bearer. The shape, color and substance of an amulet was always a direct reference to whatever strength its owner was seeking.