The English term was used at least as early as the sixteenth century and atheistic ideas and their influence have a longer history. Over the centuries, atheists have supported their lack of belief in gods through a variety of avenues, including scientific, philosophical and ideological notions. In the East, a contemplative life not centered on the idea of deities began in the sixth century BCE with the rise of Jainism, Buddhism, and certain sects of Hinduism in India, and of Taoism in China. These religions claim to offer a philosophic and salvific path not involving on deity worship.
Atheism can also be traced to Ancient Greece in the 5th century BC. This stance can be better described by the neologism apatheism. Atheism can also be traced to Ancient Greece in the 5th century BC. Diagoras of Melos is often referred to as The First Atheist, and other men who claimed to be atheists include Theodorus of Cyrene and Euhemerus.
Hinduism is generally speaking a very theistic religion, but the Carvaka school that originated in India around 6th Century BC was probably the most explicitly atheistic and materialistic school of philosophy in India. Atheism (or at least ideas that would be recognized today as atheistic) has it origins in some of the oldest documented philosophies of antiquity-the Vedic period of India and classical ancient Greece-but it did not emerge as an overt and avowed belief system until late in the European Enlightenment.
After the French Revolution and its outbursts of atheism, Voltaire was widely condemned as one of the causes, wrote Blainey, Nonetheless, his writings did concede that fear of God was an essential policeman in a disorderly world: 'If God did not exist, it would be necessary to invent him', wrote Voltaire. In the East, a contemplative life not centered on the idea of deities began in the sixth century BCE with the rise of Jainism, Buddhism, and certain sects of Hinduism in India, and of Taoism in China. These religions claim to offer a philosophic and salvific path not involving on deity worship.
Atheism (derived from the Ancient Greek ἄθεος atheos meaning without gods; godless; secular; denying or disdaining the gods, especially officially sanctioned gods) is the absence or rejection of the belief that deities exist. In the East, a contemplative life not centered on the idea of deities began in the sixth century BCE with the rise of Jainism, Buddhism, and certain sects of Hinduism in India, and of Taoism in China. These religions claim to offer a philosophic and salvific path not involving on deity worship.
Atheism is, in a broad sense, the rejection of belief in the existence of deities. In a narrower sense, atheism is specifically the position that there are no deities. Most inclusively, atheism is the absence of belief that any deities exist. Atheism is contrasted with theism, which, in its most general form, is the belief that at least one deity exists.
The origin of religion can generally be traced to the ancient Near East and classified in three basic categories: polytheistic, pantheistic and monotheistic. Atheism is really a modern belief that resulted from the Enlightenment period of the 18th century. Origin of Religion-Polytheism. The origin of religion and polytheistic systems: Polytheism (a belief in many gods) is thought to have originated with Hinduism in about 2500 BC.
The word itself originated in Ancient Greece around the 5th century, but atheism predates any religion. Atheism did not need a label until churches, gods, and religions became so common place that to NOT believe in any of the gods was now seen as unique. Atheism originated everywhere there were people. Atheism is the natural state into which we are born. Most scientists feel the very first humans ever to walk the earth lived in Africa, the homeland for all humanity, so that would be where atheism originated, too. Atheism has always existed and therefore predates any invention of gods of any kind. In earliest times the thought of gods had not yet permeated the human mind. The term would have been meaningless.
The history of atheism, depending on how one defines the term, can be dated to as early as the 6th century BC, or as recently as the late 18th century AD. The word atheism itself was not coined until the 16th century. The earliest possible examples of atheism involve Eastern religions such as Jainism, Buddhism and Taoism, which do not include a deity. This stance can be better described by the neologism apatheism. Atheism can also be traced to Ancient Greece in the 5th century BC. Diagoras of Melos is often referred to as The First Atheist, and other men who claimed to be atheists include Theodorus of Cyrene and Euhemerus.