A corvette is a small warship. It is traditionally the smallest class of vessel considered to be a proper (or rated) warship. The warship class above the corvette is that of the frigate, while the class below was historically that of the sloop-of-war. The modern types of ship below a corvette are coastal patrol craft and fast attack craft.
The name Corvette was first used on ships in the 1670s by the French Navy. These small, light, and fast ships would often be used as escorts for larger ships. While they generally were under 100 feet long and only had one gun deck, their maneuverability and speed gave them a unique advantage against the larger ships. Origin of the Corvette Name. Posted by: Michael Satterfield Posted date: 8:11 AM / comment: 0. Many people know the Corvette as a motorsports icon or the ultimate Muscle/Sports car, but few know the meaning behind the name Corvette.
Corvette concept cars have inspired the designs of several generations of Corvettes. The first Corvette, Harley Earl 's 1953 EX-122 Corvette prototype was itself, a concept show car, first shown to the public at the 1953 GM Motorama at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel in New York City on January 17, 1953. Chevrolet announced the C7 Z06 at the 2014 Detroit Auto Show. The 2015 Z06 Corvette has 650 bhp from the supercharged LT4 aluminum 6.2L V-8 engine. The new generation Corvette resurrected the Stingray name (originally spelled Sting Ray), last used in 1976.
The Chevrolet Corvette (C4) is a sports car that was produced by Chevrolet for the 1984 through 1996 model years. The convertible returned, as did higher performing engines, exemplified by the 375 hp (280 kW) LT5 found in the ZR-1. 
Best Answer: The corvette's name came from naval corvettes, a corvette is diefined as a small, fast, and maneuverable, lightly armed warship, which was used during the second world war to protect merchant vessels from German U-Boats, The Chevrolet Corvette is a small, fast, and maneuverable car. According to Corvette history, this happened in September 1952: The Opel project sports car prototype is named Corvette, after a light fast type of World War II warship.
The word corvette is first found in Middle French, a diminutive of the Dutch word corf, meaning a small ship, from the Latin corbis, meaning basket. It is traditionally the smallest class of vessel considered to be a proper (or rated) warship. The warship class above the corvette is that of the frigate, while the class below was historically that of the sloop-of-war. The modern types of ship below a corvette are coastal patrol craft and fast attack craft.
The rank  corvette captain , equivalent in many navies to  lieutenant commander , derives from the name of this type of ship. It is traditionally the smallest class of vessel considered to be a proper (or rated) warship. The warship class above the corvette is that of the frigate, while the class below was historically that of the sloop-of-war. The modern types of ship below a corvette are coastal patrol craft and fast attack craft.
The first reference to a corvette was with the French Navy in the 1670s, which may be where the term originated. The French Navy's corvettes grew over the decades and by the 1780s they were ships of 20 guns or so, approximately equivalent to the British Navy's post ships. It is traditionally the smallest class of vessel considered to be a proper (or rated) warship. The warship class above the corvette is that of the frigate, while the class below was historically that of the sloop-of-war. The modern types of ship below a corvette are coastal patrol craft and fast attack craft.
The Chevrolet Corvette, known colloquially as the Vette, is a sports car manufactured by Chevrolet. The car has been produced through seven generations. The first model, a convertible, was designed by Harley Earl and introduced at the GM Motorama in 1953 as a concept show car. Chevrolet announced the C7 Z06 at the 2014 Detroit Auto Show. The 2015 Z06 Corvette has 650 bhp from the supercharged LT4 aluminum 6.2L V-8 engine. The new generation Corvette resurrected the Stingray name (originally spelled Sting Ray), last used in 1976.
The first generation Corvette was introduced late in the 1953 model year. Originally designed as a show car for the 1953 Motorama display at the New York Auto Show, it generated enough interest to induce GM to make a production version to sell to the public. Chevrolet announced the C7 Z06 at the 2014 Detroit Auto Show. The 2015 Z06 Corvette has 650 bhp from the supercharged LT4 aluminum 6.2L V-8 engine. The new generation Corvette resurrected the Stingray name (originally spelled Sting Ray), last used in 1976.