Tizanidine tablets belong to a group of medicines called skeletal muscle relaxants. Your medicine is used to relieve the stiffness and restriction of muscles resulting from multiple sclerosis, injury or diseases of the spinal cord. 
PRESCRIBED FOR: Tizanidine is used for the treatment and management of skeletal muscle spasticity. Spasticity may be due to multiple sclerosis or spinal cord injury. DOSING: Initially take 2 - 4 mg by mouth every 6 to 8 hours for up to 3 doses in 24 hours. Increase by 2 to 4 mg until satisfactory response is achieved; however, the maximum dose is 36 mg per day.
Tizanidine (trade names Zanaflex, Sirdalud) is a drug that is used as a muscle relaxant. It is a centrally acting α 2 adrenergic agonist. It is used to treat the spasms, cramping, and tightness of muscles caused by medical problems such as multiple sclerosis, ALS, spastic diplegia, back pain, or certain other injuries to the spine or central nervous system. Concomitant use of tizanidine and moderate or potent CYP1A2 inhibitors is contraindicated. Concomitant use of tizanidine with fluvoxamine, a potent CYP1A2 inhibitor in man, resulted in a 33-fold increase in the tizanidine AUC (plasma drug concentration-time curve).
An Introduction to Tizanidine Uses. Tizanidine hydrochloride (Zanaflex ®) is a prescription medication used to treat spasticity. It belongs to a group of drugs known as alpha-2 adrenergic agonists. 
Tizanidine can be very strong even at the 2 mg dose and may cause low blood pressure, so caution is advised when it is used in patients who have a history of orthostatic hypotension, or when switching from gel cap to tablet form and vice versa. Concomitant use of tizanidine and moderate or potent CYP1A2 inhibitors is contraindicated. Concomitant use of tizanidine with fluvoxamine, a potent CYP1A2 inhibitor in man, resulted in a 33-fold increase in the tizanidine AUC (plasma drug concentration-time curve).
Zanaflex® (tizanidine hydrochloride) is a central alpha2-adrenergic agonist. Tizanidine HCl is a white to off-white, fine crystalline powder, which is odorless or with a faint characteristic odor. Tizanidine is slightly soluble in water and methanol; solubility in water decreases as the pH increases. Zanaflex® tablets contain the active ingredient, tizanidine hydrochloride (4.58 mg equivalent to 4 mg tizanidine base), and the inactive ingredients, colloidal silicon dioxide, stearic acid, microcrystalline cellulose and anhydrous lactose.
(tye-ZAN-i-deen). COMMON BRAND NAME(S): Zanaflex. USES: This medication is used to treat muscle spasms caused by certain conditions (such as multiple sclerosis, spinal cord injury). It works by helping to relax the muscles. HOW TO USE: Take this medication by mouth as directed by your doctor, usually every 6 to 8 hours. 
ZANAFLEX CAPSULES is a short-acting drug for the management of spasticity. Because of the short duration of effect, treatment with tizanidine should be reserved for those daily activities and times when relief of spasticity is most important. Important Safety Information for ZANAFLEX CAPSULES: 1  There is a limited data base for chronic use of single doses above 8 mg and multiple doses above 24 mg per day. 2  Tizanidine is an alpha2-adrenergic agonist and can produce hypotension.
Zanaflex® tablets are supplied as 4 mg tablets for oral administration. Zanaflex® tablets contain the active ingredient, tizanidine hydrochloride (4.58 mg equivalent to 4 mg tizanidine base), and the inactive ingredients, colloidal silicon dioxide, stearic acid, microcrystalline cellulose and anhydrous lactose.
Tizanidine is a short-acting muscle relaxer that's marketed under the brand name Zanaflex. It is used to treat muscle spasms caused by certain conditions such as multiple sclerosis, ALS, or spinal cord injury. It is also prescribed off-label for certain headache disorders, symptoms of fibromyalgia, and as a sleep aid. Tizanidine works by blocking nerve impulses that are sent to your brain.