The Concrete Landscape Curbing estimator will provide you with up to date pricing for your area. Simply enter your zip code and the square footage, next click update and you will see a breakdown on what it should cost to have Concrete Landscape Curbing installed at your home. Example: a 10 x 10 area = 100 square feet. 1 Try to get prices in late Fall, early winter – you should expect aggressive pricing discounts by waiting for a contractor’s down season. 2  Try to budget and additional 7-15% more on top of what our calculator gives out for Concrete Landscape Curbing costs.
Cost of Concrete Curb. 1  On average, homeowners should expect to pay approximately $16.90 for a linear square foot of concrete curb installed. 2  The maximum reported price per linear foot of concrete curb is $20.89. 3  The minimum reported price for concrete curb is $13.37 per linear foot. If it does not, homeowners should expect to shell out another $150 to $450, depending on the size of the project. There are other factors that can come into play when it comes to the overall cost of concrete curb installation. One major factor is the size of the curb being installed.
Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Landscape Curbing Installation project. For a basic 25 feet project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install Landscape Curbing ranges between $8.93 - $11.85 per linear foot. To estimate costs for your project: 1
If you’re looking for a 2015 breakdown for Cost of Concrete Curbs materials and what installation cost might be, you’ve come to the right place. As an experienced licensed home improvement contractor, I know first hand what it should cost for various levels — from Basic, Better, and of course the best. The Concrete Curbs estimator will provide you with up to date pricing for your area. Cost of Concrete Curbs. Don’t let your remodeling budget go over-board by hidden surprises – understand what the average installed costs for Concrete Curbs is in your zip code by using our handy calculator.
1 On average, homeowners should expect to pay approximately $16.90 for a linear square foot of concrete curb installed. 2  The maximum reported price per linear foot of concrete curb is $20.89. 3  The minimum reported price for concrete curb is $13.37 per linear foot. If it does not, homeowners should expect to shell out another $150 to $450, depending on the size of the project. There are other factors that can come into play when it comes to the overall cost of concrete curb installation. One major factor is the size of the curb being installed.
Concrete curbing prices will vary based on shape, stamps, colors, terrain and prep work involved, however it will cost the average homeowner between $4.50 to $11.00 per linear foot. Call us for a free on-site estimate specifically tailored to your exact property. 
1 Try to budget and additional 7-15% more on top of what our calculator gives out for Concrete Landscape Curbing costs. 2  Visit every supply house that sell your particular brand of Concrete Landscape Curbing and try to negotiate a better price with each supplier – I save on average 20%. 1 Try to get prices in late Fall, early winter – you should expect aggressive pricing discounts by waiting for a contractor’s down season. 2 
The most popular material used to date in landscape curbing is concrete, mostly for its cost-effectiveness. A typical concrete curb installation will cost approximately $5 per linear foot. Extra site preparation, custom curb shape design, and color may make the price more expensive; closer to $10 per foot. Asphalt curbs are just slightly more expensive, coming in at around $6 to $7 per linear foot. Landscape curbing gives a unique look to your yard by enhancing edges and borders around gardens, trees, bushes, and walkways. Most landscape edging is made from concrete curbing. However, there is also asphalt, vinyl, and brick curbing.
1 Try to budget and additional 7-15% more on top of what our calculator gives out for Concrete Curbs costs. 2  Visit every supply house that sell your particular brand of Concrete Curbs and try to negotiate a better price with each supplier – I save on average 20%. Cost of Concrete Curbs. Don’t let your remodeling budget go over-board by hidden surprises – understand what the average installed costs for Concrete Curbs is in your zip code by using our handy calculator.