An ampere, or amp (A or I, for current), is the amount of current in a circuit, while voltage (V) is the strength of the current as it flows through the circuit, and watts (W) are the total electrical power released by circuit per second. 
A watt-hour (Wh) is a unit of energy; it’s a way to measure the amount of work performed or generated. Household appliances and other electrical devices perform “work” and that requires energy in the form of electricity. Knowing the difference between a watt (W) and a watt-hour (Wh) helps you understand the impact of your home energy use on your electric bill. You can also compare your home energy use to the energy generated with your Enphase microinverter system.
Part of the Electronics glossary: The watt (abbreviated W) is the International System of Units' (SI) standard unit of power (energy per unit time), the equivalent of one joule per second. 
The watt (symbol: W) is a derived unit of power in the International System of Units (SI), named after the Scottish engineer James Watt (1736–1819). The unit is defined as joule per second and can be used to express the rate of energy conversion or transfer with respect to time. It has dimensions of L 2 M T −3. For example, when a light bulb with a power rating of 100W is turned on for one hour, the energy used is 100 watt hours (W·h), 0.1 kilowatt hour, or 360 kJ. This same amount of energy would light a 40-watt bulb for 2.5 hours, or a 50-watt bulb for 2 hours.
The watt second is a unit of energy, equal to the joule. One kilowatt hour is 3,600,000 watt seconds. The watt second is used, for example, to rate the energy storage of flash lamps used in photography, although the term joule is generally employed. For example, when a light bulb with a power rating of 100W is turned on for one hour, the energy used is 100 watt hours (W·h), 0.1 kilowatt hour, or 360 kJ. This same amount of energy would light a 40-watt bulb for 2.5 hours, or a 50-watt bulb for 2 hours.
Watts is a 2.12-square-mile neighborhood in Los Angeles, California, within the South Los Angeles area. It is a high-density, youthful neighborhood with a large household size and with the highest percentage of families headed by single parents in the city. 
The watt is a unit of power. It is a Newton meter per second, or can be given as a joule per second. We often encounter it in electrical calculations, and it is the unit of power for applications there. The formula for power is given here: I think you're asking what is a watt. A watt is a measurement of power, and the simplest example of a watt would be the amount of power that you would have if you had one volt at one amp of current. Or, to put it another way, 1 volt X 1 Amp=1 Watt. To go further, 12 volts at 1 amp equals 12 watts. This is for direct current measurement.
watt. A unit used to measure power, equal to one joule of work per second. In electricity, a watt is equal to the amount of current (in amperes) multiplied by the amount of potential (in volts). n. 1. (Units) the derived SI unit of power, equal to 1 joule per second; the power dissipated by a current of 1 ampere flowing across a potential difference of 1 volt. 1 watt is equivalent to 1.341 × 10 -3 horsepower.