The Aztec /ˈaeztɛk/ ˈæztɛk people were certain ethnic groups of Central, mexico particularly those groups who spoke The nahuatl language and who dominated large parts Of mesoamerica from the 14th to 16th. centuries From the 13th century, the Valley of Mexico was the heart of Aztec civilization: here the capital of the Aztec Triple Alliance, the city of Tenochtitlan, was built upon raised islets in Lake Texcoco.
The Aztec people/tribe were certain ethnic groups of central Mexico, particularly those groups who spoke the Nahuatl language and who dominated large parts of Mesoamerica in t … he 14th, 15th and 16th centuries, a period referred to as the Late post-Classic period in Mesoamerican chronolgy. Aztecs are what Europeans called the Indigenous natives of in what is now called Mexico. There are other tribes too but the Aztecs we're the last great civilization there. T … he proper name is Mexica pronounced like Mexico but the x makes a sh sound.
The Aztecs were a Pre-Columbian Mesoamerican people of central Mexico in the 14th, 15th and 16th centuries. They called themselves Mexica (pronounced [meˈʃikaʔ]). The Republic of Mexico and its capital, Mexico City, derive their names from the word Mexica. The capital of the Aztec empire was Tenochtitlan, built on a raised island in Lake Texcoco. From 1376 until 1427, the Mexica were a tributary of Azcapotzalco. The Aztec rulers Acamapichtli, Huitzilihuitl and Chimalpopoca were, in fact, vassals of Tezozomoc, the Tepanec ruler
The Aztec originally are a nomadic people from Northern Mexico, lead to Mexico City by a prophecy, their empire flourished to its greatness there. the Aztec came from Northern Mexico. 
The Origins of the Aztecs. The Aztecs, or Mexica as they called themselves, were not originally from the Valley of Mexico, but rather migrated from the north, from a mythical island called Aztlan, The Place of Herons.. Tenochtitlan is an archaeological ruin located under the streets of modern Mexico City in the Valley of Mexico. According to historical documents, the Aztecs wandered for years in search of a new homeland before locating the capital city for their empire at Tenochtitla¡tenochtitlã n in. 1325
The Aztecs were conquered by Spain in 1521 after a long siege of the capital, Tenochtitlan, where much of the population died from hunger and smallpox. Cortes, cortés with 508, spaniards did not fight alone but with as many 150,000 150000 200,000 200000 allies From, tlaxcala and eventually Other aztec tributary. states From 1376 until 1427, the Mexica were a tributary of Azcapotzalco. The Aztec rulers Acamapichtli, Huitzilihuitl and Chimalpopoca were, in fact, vassals of Tezozomoc, the Tepanec ruler
The term Aztec, originally associated with the migrant Mexica, is today a collective term, applied to all the peoples linked by trade, custom, religion, and language to these founders. At that time the Aztecs (who referred to themselves as the Mexica or Tenochca) were a small, nomadic, Nahuatl-speaking aggregation of tribal peoples living on the margins of civilized Mesoamerica.
The Aztecs were a Mesoamerican people who lived in what is now Mexico City and the surrounding territory beginning in the 14th century. They established a broad empire that lasted roughly 200 years and which was based on tributes and military conquests. 
The Aztecs / Mexicas were the native American people who dominated northern Mexico at the time of the Spanish conquest led by Hernan CORTES in the early 16th century. According to their own legends, they originated from a place called Aztlan, somewhere in north or northwest Mexico. At that time the Aztecs (who referred to themselves as the Mexica or Tenochca) were a small, nomadic, Nahuatl-speaking aggregation of tribal peoples living on the margins of civilized Mesoamerica.
The History of the Aztecs The Valley of Mexico is part of the central highlands and lies at an altitude of about a mile and a half. At the low point of the Valley there is a large lake that made human life sustainable in the generally dry country. The Aztecs did not come to the Valley of Mexico until the fourteenth century. Despite the rise and fall of empires there was a continuity of culture in the Valley of Mexico. Agriculture and other technologies were passed down from generation to generation.