To open the disk defragmenter you are used to click the Start button and in the Search box type: 'dfrgui.exe' (without the quotes). This will launch the disk defragmenter. If you want to add disk defragmenter icon to your desktop simply Right click on 'dfrgui.exe' and select 'copy' then paste it on your desktop. CL. CL. I recently had my Disk Defragmenter icon moved from the system tools to the desktop. I accidentally deleted the icon a few days later and i had also ran a disk clean up. Now when i try to use the disk defragmenter, windows say that the shortcut does not exist. Also i tried to open (defrag.exe)
49. Rather than using the programs menu to start the Windows Disk Defragmenter a quick and easy way is to put an icon on the desktop. 1  Click the Start button. 2  Now click All programs followed by Accessories. 3  From the Accessories drop down menu select System Tools. 1 From the Accessories drop down menu select System Tools. 2  From the System Tools drop down menu Right Click on Disk defragmenter. 3  As you Right Click another drop down menu will appear. 4  From this menu choose Create Shortcut.
Add a Shortcut to the Desktop. Click on the Start button on the lower left-hand side of the screen. Go to All Programs and then to Accessories.. Scroll over to System Tools.. Right-click on Disk Cleanup.. Select Send to and then scroll over to Desktop (create shortcut).. Add Disk Cleanup Icon to the Desktop. Click on the Start button on the lower left-hand side of the screen. Go to All Programs and then to Accessories.. Scroll over to System Tools, then right-click on Disk Cleanup.. Scroll down to Properties to open the Disk Cleanup Properties box
3 ways to create a Disk Cleanup shortcut on Windows 8/8.1 desktop: Way 1: Manually create a Disk Cleanup shortcut on the desktop. Step 1: Right-click the desktop, tap New in the context menu and select Shortcut in the list. Step 2: Input the location of Disk Cleanup in the blank box and click Next in the Create Shortcut window. Way 3: Create a Disk Cleanup CMD file on the desktop. Tip: The CMD file can be considered as the shortcut of Disk Cleanup, because you can use it to open the tool via the Command Prompt. Step 1: Open a new text document.
Now click All programs followed by Accessories 3. From the Accessories drop down menu select System Tools 4. From the System Tools drop down menu Right Click on Disk Defragmenter 5. As you Right Click another drop down menu will appear. From this menu choose Create Shortcut 6. A. Yes rather than using the programs menu to start the Windows Disk Defragmenter a quick and easy way is to put an icon on the desktop. 1. Click the Start Button. 2. Now click All programs followed by Accessories. 3.
1 Click the Start button. 2  Now click All programs followed by Accessories. 3  From the Accessories drop down menu select System Tools. 4  From the System Tools drop down menu Right Click on Disk defragmenter. 5  As you Right Click another drop down menu will appear. 6  From this menu choose Create Shortcut. 1 From the Accessories drop down menu select System Tools. 2  From the System Tools drop down menu Right Click on Disk defragmenter. 3  As you Right Click another drop down menu will appear. 4  From this menu choose Create Shortcut.
1 From this menu choose Create Shortcut. 2  You should now see that another entry marked Disk defragmenter 2 has appeared on the drop down menu. 3  Right click on this second entry and, from the drop down menu, select Cut. 4  Now Right Click on any vacant area of your desktop and, from the drop down menu, select Paste. 1 From the Accessories drop down menu select System Tools. 2  From the System Tools drop down menu Right Click on Disk defragmenter. 3  As you Right Click another drop down menu will appear. 4  From this menu choose Create Shortcut.