Posts: 883. It's made up of paracetamol and an opiate. I don't take mine that often as I notice a distinct drop in LO's movements the day after-obviously sometimes it's necessary to take them, just try not to too often. 
Driving and using machines. Co-dydramol can affect your ability to drive as it may make you sleepy or dizzy. 1  Do not drive whilst taking this medicine until you know how it affects you. 2  It is an offence to drive if this medicine affects your ability to drive. 3  However, you would not be committing an offence if: If you take more co-dydramol than you should. 1  Talk to a doctor at once if you take too much of this medicine even if you feel well. 2  This is because too much paracetamol can cause delayed, serious liver damage. 3  Remember to take any remaining tablets and the pack with you.
Do not take Co-dydramol tablets and tell your doctor if you: 1  are allergic (hypersensitive) to paracetamol, dihydrocodeine or other opioids, or any of the ingredients in the tablet (see section 6). 4 Possible side effects. Like all medicines, Co-dydramol tablets can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. Please tell your doctor or pharmacist if you notice any of the following effects or any effects not listed. Contact your doctor at once if the following side effects occur:
text:12924. Co-dydramol is a compound painkiller which contains paracetamol and dihydrocodeine. Paracetamol is the most well known and widely used analgesic. It suppresses pain and, in addition, reduces fever. Co-dydramol should be taken whole orally with a glass of water, preferably during or after meals. Co-dydramol works fast, but its effect is temporary. If you want to take another tablet because the effect has worn off, be sure to leave at least four hours in between doses.
Check with your doctor or pharmacist before taking Co-dydramol tablets if you have: 1  liver or kidney problems. 2  diseased adrenal glands (Addison’s disease) or high blood pressure caused by a tumour near a kidney (phaeochromocytoma). 3  inflammatory bowel disease. 4  gall bladder disease or gall stones. 4 Possible side effects. Like all medicines, Co-dydramol tablets can cause side effects, although not everybody gets them. Please tell your doctor or pharmacist if you notice any of the following effects or any effects not listed. Contact your doctor at once if the following side effects occur:
Do not take co-dydramol and tell your doctor if: 1  You are allergic to the active substances or any of the other ingredients in your medicine (listed in Section 6). 2  Signs of an allergic reaction include a rash and breathing problems. If you take more co-dydramol than you should. 1  Talk to a doctor at once if you take too much of this medicine even if you feel well. 2  This is because too much paracetamol can cause delayed, serious liver damage. 3  Remember to take any remaining tablets and the pack with you.
Co-dydramol contains 500 mg paracetamol and 10 mg dihydrocodeine per tablet, and is available in packs of 100 tablets. The usual dose for adults and children aged 12 and over is one or two tablets every four hours, with a maximum of eight tablets a day. Co-dydramol should be taken whole orally with a glass of water, preferably during or after meals. Co-dydramol works fast, but its effect is temporary. If you want to take another tablet because the effect has worn off, be sure to leave at least four hours in between doses.
· just now. Report Abuse. This is what it said when I looked up Co-Dydramol & Alcohol Alcohol increases the risk of liver damage that can occur if an overdose of paracetamol is taken. The hazards of paracetamol overdose are greater in persistant heavy drinkers and in people with alcoholic liver disease. nanny chris w · 8 years ago. Best Answer: You should be fine, the amount of actual opiate (which is what could cause problems with alcohol) in there is very small in all forms of tablets that are opiates mixed with paracetamol. For example to overdose on co-codamol without alcohol you would need the codeine from well over 50 tablets.
Co-Dydramol Product code SKU16577. Brand Name(s) : Paramol. CO-DYDRAMOL USES. Co-dydramol (paracetamol and dihydrocodeine) is used in the treatment of mild to moderate pain and/or fever. It is a combination of paracetamol and a weak opioid analgesic called dihydrocodeine, commonly known as a pain-killer. It is used to relieve mild to moderate pain and/or fever. Listed below are the typical uses of co-dydramol. treatment of mild to moderate pain including headache, migraine, feverish conditions, period pain, toothache and other dental pain, back pain, muscular and joint pains, neuralgia, the aches and pains of cold and flu, and as an antifever treatment, treatment for cough.