1 Then press the Power button for a short while. 2  Press Volume Down to choose  wipe data/factory reset , and then push the Power button to confirm. 3  Select  Yes--delete all user data 4  . Use Volume Down button to scroll and Power key to select. 1 Afterwards press and hold Volume Up + Volume Down + Power buttons for a couple of seconds. 2  Release held keys when you see an Andoid image. 3  Using Volume Down to scroll and Power key to selet choose from the menu on your screen Recovery Mode. 4 
1 In most cases, a soft reset won't affect data on the device, unless the battery is very low. 2  Press and hold the Power button (on the right edge). 3  Tap Power off. 4  If the device is unresponsive/frozen, press and hold the Power button for approximately 10 seconds or until the device power cycles. 1 Tap Power off. 2
How to Manually Factory reset the Verizon Motorola Droid Turbo in Stock recovery from bootloader mode. this can some times get your device working again or just reset it to sell the device. Check out all my videos on the Droid Turbo at my site. http://www.rootjunky.com/motorola/mot... Check out my RootJunky android app here at Google Play store.
1 Remove the battery and wait about 10 sce. 2  Put the battery again and keep the buttons (Vol –) and Power buttons around 10 sec. 3  Now the Motorola droid Turbo show you recovery mode and you are able to see a list of menu items. 4  Now select the Factory reset button and press power button. 1 Put the battery again and keep the buttons (Vol –) and Power buttons around 10 sec. 2  Now the Motorola droid Turbo show you recovery mode and you are able to see a list of menu items. 3  Now select the Factory reset button and press power button. 4  Wait some time and factory reset is done
Soft Reset MOTOROLA Droid Turbo. 1  Press and hold the Power button. 2  From the options choose Power Off and then tap OK. 3  Press the Power button again to turn the phone back on. 1 Afterwards press and hold Volume Up + Volume Down + Power buttons for a couple of seconds. 2  Release held keys when you see an Andoid image. 3  Using Volume Down to scroll and Power key to selet choose from the menu on your screen Recovery Mode. 4  Then press the Power button for a short while.
Notes: 1  A soft reset (turning the device off then back on) is similar to restarting a desktop computer and is one of the first steps in troubleshooting a device. 2  In most cases, a soft reset won't affect data on the device, unless the battery is very low. 3  Press and hold the Power button (on the right edge). 4  Tap Power off. 1 Tap Power off. 2  If the device is unresponsive/frozen, press and hold the Power button for approximately 10 seconds or until the device power cycles.
1 Press and hold the Power button (on the right edge). 2  Tap Power off. 3  If the device is unresponsive/frozen, press and hold the Power button for approximately 10 seconds or until the device power cycles. 1 Tap Power off. 2
1 Now the Motorola droid Turbo show you recovery mode and you are able to see a list of menu items. 2  Now select the Factory reset button and press power button. 3  Wait some time and factory reset is done. 4  Now again select reboot the mobile and press power button. 5  Motorola droid Turbo will be restart and work is done. 1 Put the battery again and keep the buttons (Vol –) and Power buttons around 10 sec. 2  Now the Motorola droid Turbo show you recovery mode and you are able to see a list of menu items. 3  Now select the Factory reset button and press power button. 4  Wait some time and factory reset
1 Press Volume Down to choose  wipe data/factory reset , and then push the Power button to confirm. 2  Select  Yes--delete all user data 3  . Use Volume Down button to scroll and Power key to select. 4  To restart the phone, select  reboot system now . 1 Afterwards press and hold Volume Up + Volume Down + Power buttons for a couple of seconds. 2  Release held keys when you see an Andoid image. 3  Using Volume Down to scroll and Power key to selet choose from the menu on your screen Recovery Mode. 4  Then press the Power button for a short while.