However, if you know where to look for the vehicle paint codes and identification numbers, your search for the paint codes is half done. Your vehicles Touch up paint color code will be found on your vehicles VIN plate or label. See below on locations of Touch up paint color codes. Find your vehicles Touch up Paint Code. Your vehicles Touch up paint color code will be found on your vehicles VIN plate or label. See below on locations of Touch up paint color codes.
You won't find the paint code for your vehicle coded in the vehicle identification number. To find the paint code, look on the vehicle certification label or the service parts identification sticker. BMW uses a paint label that identifies the paint color by name and gives the three-digit paint code. Finding the label bearing the paint code information can be an adventure all by itself.
What we can do is help you find your car s paint code numbers. These paint color codes are linked to manufacturer-specified colors, so if you know your car s manufacturer and paint codes, then you can get exactly the color you want. Automotive paint codes are usually printed on your car s VIN plate or label. Find your vehicles Touch up Paint Code. Your vehicles Touch up paint color code will be found on your vehicles VIN plate or label. See below on locations of Touch up paint color codes.
1 Driver door sticker: Often, you can find your paint code right where you find your tire pressure settings. 2  This is the most common location for paint codes, so be sure to try it first. 3  Another place to look on the driver's side door is in the hinge area, or in the passenger door, sometimes on the pillar. This means you may need to look in a few different places before you can successfully find your car's paint code. Try these spots first: 1 
Home. Find your vehicles Touch up Paint Code We here at Brandsport understand that you would want to keep your car s color exactly the same when you go for a repaint. The human eye cannot easily differentiate between minute differences in color, and we can t help that. Find your vehicles Touch up Paint Code. Your vehicles Touch up paint color code will be found on your vehicles VIN plate or label. See below on locations of Touch up paint color codes.
The quickest way to get the right car paint code is to use the unique VIN number for your car. This VIN is the Vehicle Identification Number. Once you have found out the VIN of your car, you can order the correct auto paint without having to look far for matching color tones or paint types. 
Factory Paint Codes, Paint Code Locations, Color Codes. This page is to help locate your paint code. Click on your manufacturer for examples on where to look and in some cases an image of how the paint code identification tag will look. 
Open the driver’s door — Like other information placarded on your vehicle, paint code information is typically found inside the driver’s door on the door jamb or the inside of the door. Two types of paint codes are listed — one is for the exterior paint, the other is for the cabin or interior color. One code may say “paint” the other “trim.” Jot down the paint code and call your dealer’s service department to have them decode this for you. Check the owner’s manual — If you can’t find the paint code, check your car owner’s manual as that book may identify where the paint code placards have been placed. Other places to look include each door jamb and under the top of your car’s hood