Islamic Republic of Pakistan gained independence from England in August 1947.   Answer   August 14, 1947   Pakistan was independent on 14th of August in 1947.  …  and India was independent on 15th of august in 1947. Pakistan wanted independence because of religious reason. the two religious Hinduism and Islam couldn't live together. finally most Muslims went to Pakistan and made prace wit … h Hindus and now Hindus have India.
India remained a Dominion of the Crown until 26 January 1950, when the Constitution of India came into force, establishing the Republic of India; Pakistan was a dominion until 1956, when it adopted its first republican constitution. In 1971, East Pakistan declared independence as the People's Republic of Bangladesh. 
Pakistan was created on the 14th of August,1947.Pakistan's independance day is celebrated on 14th August, however India celebrates its independance on the 15th of August …. Pakistan wanted independence because of religious reason. the two religious Hinduism and Islam couldn't live together. finally most Muslims went to Pakistan and made prace wit … h Hindus and now Hindus have India.
Pakistan's Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif, center, hoists a Pakistani flag to mark the Independence Day in Islamabad, Pakistan. Bangalore, Aug 14: The separate states of India and Pakistan were created at midnight on August 15, 1947. Yet while India celebrates that day as its independence day, Pakistan celebrates its independence day a day before. Also in 1948, Pakistan decided to celebrate its Independence Day on August 14 because 27 Ramadan, an auspicious date of the Islamic lunar calendar, coincided with it. Hence the Pakistanis decided to celebrate their Independence Day a day before the actual date.
People all over Pakistan celebrate Independence Day with patriotic zest. Many people who attend the Independence Day parades dress up in green and white, which are the Pakistani flag’s colors. People visit national monuments and places of national significance to celebrate Independence Day. Select another year-range: Pakistan’s Independence Day, which is annually held on August 14, celebrates the country’s independence from the British rule on that date in 1947. This day is an occasion to promote patriotism and national unity.
Not to be confused with Pakistan Day. Independence Day (Urdu: یوم آزادی ‎; Yaum-e Āzādī), observed annually on 14 August, is a national holiday in Pakistan. It commemorates the day when Pakistan achieved independence and was declared a sovereign nation following the end of the British Raj in 1947. Pakistan came into existence as a result of the Pakistan Movement which aimed for the creation of an independent Muslim state by division of the north-western regions of South Asia. The movement was led by the All-India Muslim League under the leadership of Muhammad Ali Jinnah.
Pakistan gained independence from the British rule on August 14, 1947. At its birth, Pakistan had two parts commonly referred to as East and West Pakistan. Select another year-range: Pakistan’s Independence Day, which is annually held on August 14, celebrates the country’s independence from the British rule on that date in 1947. This day is an occasion to promote patriotism and national unity.
Islamic Republic of Pakistan gained independence from England in August 1947. August 14, 1947 Pakistan was independent on 14th of August in 1947. and India was independent on 15th of august in 1947. Pakistan was created on the 14th of August,1947.Pakistan's independance day is celebrated on 14th August, however India celebrates its independance on the 15th of August …. 3 people found this useful.
Pakistan, in its comparatively short history, has tried various forms of parliamentary, military, and presidential governments in its efforts to achieve political stability. At independence Pakistan was governed by the Government of India Act of 1935 as amended by the authority of the India Independence Act of 1947.
August 15 is the birthday of the independent and sovereign state of Pakistan. It marks the fulfilment of the destiny of the Muslim nation which made great sacrifices in the past few years to have its homeland.. Fourteenth of August redirects here. Pakistan came into existence as a result of the Pakistan Movement which aimed for the creation of an independent Muslim state by division of the north-western regions of South Asia. The movement was led by the All-India Muslim League under the leadership of Muhammad Ali Jinnah.