Phosphorus Availabiity. To buy Phosphorus, please click here: Phosphorus Homeopathic remedies are prescribed on the principle that 'like cures like', in a tiny dilution-so the indications below are what a healthy person would feel if taking Phosphorus. Homeopathic remedies are prescribed on the principle that 'like cures like', in a tiny dilution-so the indications below are what a healthy person would feel if taking Phosphorus. If your symptoms fit within the symptoms below, then Phosphorus would be a good bet.
Phosphorus, Phos, is very common in the body, found in the bones, teeth, DNA, body fluids. Homeopathic Phoshorus is made from the phoshorus in bone ash. Phosphorus is flammable and used in fireworks.Phosphorus is a common remedy for children and adults. They are generally pleasant and easy to get along with, but watch out if they are overirritated, since they'll ignite and show their anger.
Phosphorus 30 is a low dose homeopathic remedy. Phosphorus in general is used when there are signs of cough. The person, though sick may still feel perky and may be thirsty for cold drinks and hungry especially at night. 
Source. Pure phosphorus, which forms the basis for the homeopathic remedy phos., is by and large found in volcanic regions of North Africa, where it is present in volcanic ash as calcium phosphate. While all living tissues, include those in humans, enclose phosphorus in different natural levels, the homeopathic remedy phos. is an absolutely special therapy that has proved to be very useful for various conditions. In fact, in homeopathy, phosphorus is used for a variety of reasons.
However, as is common with any form of homeopathic remedy, phosphorus is found to be helpful when there are virtually no real traces of it remaining for homeopathic purposes. Phosphorus is a key mineral in homeopathy and is very useful, very well known and a widely accepted homeopathic remedy. Homeopathic Remedy Profile for Phos: Generally those which benefit most from phosphorus homeopathy tend to be outgoing and rather charismatic individuals. They are often quite creative and imaginative, and very much enjoy being the center of attention.
Phosphorus is an immensely important remedy in homeopathy, one of our desert island remedies. It is full of contradictions, as gentle and loving as an affectionate kitten yet as dangerous and destructive as the deadliest of poisons. A dose of Phosphorus rapidly restores the spark. As a tubercular remedy, there is a tendency to upper respiratory complaints: sore throat, hoarseness, bronchitis, asthma and chest infections. The bleeding tendency leads to blood streaked sputum, and the pains are burning in nature.
Parts used. To prepare the homeopathic remedy phos., unadulterated or pure phosphorus is watered down in large amounts of milk sugar. The end product, or the homeopathic remedy phos., does not retain any of the traces of phosphorus in its natural form and is useful for treating a number of health conditions. While all living tissues, include those in humans, enclose phosphorus in different natural levels, the homeopathic remedy phos. is an absolutely special therapy that has proved to be very useful for various conditions. In fact, in homeopathy, phosphorus is used for a variety of reasons.
Phosphorus is a major mineral is our body. Phosphorus is found in the bones,teeth, DNA, etc. Homeopathic Phosphorus is an important remedy for basic constitutional treatment, first aid treatment in nosebleeds, coughs and colds, chronic conditions such as anxiety, nervousness, and digestive problems. Homeopathic Phoshorus is made from the phoshorus in bone ash. Phosphorus is flammable and used in fireworks.Phosphorus is a common remedy for children and adults. They are generally pleasant and easy to get along with, but watch out if they are overirritated, since they'll ignite and show their anger.
People's conception regarding the use of phosphorus as a homeopathic remedy may often be misleading since many of us are aware that in its natural state phosphorus is extremely inflammable and it is necessary to always keep it under water for its exposure to air results in ignition. While all living tissues, include those in humans, enclose phosphorus in different natural levels, the homeopathic remedy phos. is an absolutely special therapy that has proved to be very useful for various conditions. In fact, in homeopathy, phosphorus is used for a variety of reasons.