distal caries. Definitions: 1. loss of structure on the tooth surface that is directed away from the median plane of the dental arch. The definition information for distal caries is provided by Stedman's. You can search our medical dictionary here. Stedman's, part of Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, provides a comprehensive line of health-science publications for healthcare professionals and medical students.
Dental caries or cavities, more commonly known as tooth decay, are caused by a breakdown of the tooth enamel. This breakdown is the result of bacteria on teeth that breakdown foods and produce acid that destroys tooth enamel and results in tooth decay. 
No caries was found in relation to transverse impactions.It was concluded that distal caries in second molars is common, especially in cases of mesioangularmandibular third molar impactions and prophylactic removal of these impacted teeth may beconsidered appropriate. 19 The development of distal cervical caries in man-dibular second molar is a protracted process whichdevelops over time and increases with continued expo-sure to the oral cavity. The incidence of second molardistal caries as reported is between 0.5–8%.
Dental caries (caries is Latin for rottenness), also known as tooth decay, cavities, or caries, is a breakdown of teeth due to activities of bacteria. The cavities may be a number of different colors from yellow to black. Symptoms may include pain and difficulty with eating. The cause of caries is bacterial break down of the hard tissues of the teeth (enamel, dentin and cementum). This occurs due to acid made from food debris or sugar on the tooth surface. Simple sugars in food are these bacteria's primary energy source and thus a diet high in simple sugar is a risk factor
Related Conditions. Cavities are a result of poor oral hygiene and retained dental plaque on the tooth surface. Specific bacteria in plaque cause decay. Different types of bacteria in plaque, retained near the gum line, cause gum disease to occur, which is a condition that your dentist and periodontist can help treat. Cavities refer to tooth decay, which occurs when specific types of bacteria produce acid that destroys the tooth’s enamel and its underlying layer, the dentin. 1  All About Cavities. 2  Dental Caries: How They Are Formed and What You Can Do to Prevent Them.
Dental caries is the scientific term for tooth decay or cavities. It is caused by specific types of bacteria. They produce acid that destroys the tooth's enamel and the layer under it, the dentin. Eventually, uncontrolled decay may destroy the tooth. Having caries increases your risk of more caries for several reasons: 1  Caries is caused by bacteria. 2  The more decay you have, the more bacteria exist in your mouth. 3  The same oral care and dietary habits that led to the decay of your teeth will cause more decay.
These medical condition or symptom topics may be relevant to medical information for Distal caries: 1  Distal. 2  Caries. 3  Loss. 4  Structure. 5  Tooth. 6  Tooth symptoms (886 causes). 7  Tooth disorder. 8  Tooth pain (15 causes). 9  Surface. 10  Median. 
A RealAge answered. A distal cavity is an area of decay on a tooth surface, this surface being the furthest from the middle of the front of your jaw. These types of cavities often occur on a part of a tooth that faces an adjacent mesial tooth surface. The terms distal (and mesial) are used to denote the location of a cavity relative to the front of the jaw.
Just to clarify; if you get caries in between your back teeth e.g. mesial (M) caries, the dentist will call out MO because in order to access the caries they must drill through the occlusal (O) surface making the filling an MO-it is impossible to fill this area otherwise. The previous chapter on where you can get caries is also useful reading if you just skipped ahead to this one. 1  Smooth surface caries. 2  This means decay on the easily seen and cleaned fronts and backs of the front teeth and the sides and insides of back teeth. 3  Approximal or interporximal caries.