If so, it’s just the various buttercups telling you “Here we are again!. Buttercups often flourish in dairy pastures, because the cattle won’t eat them. They also do well in damp or swampy places, and are early colonisers of waste areas and roadsides. They come in different leaf shapes, varying heights, and some are perennial and others annual. 
Buttercups are usually considered not edible. In fact, I think they were the first plant I learned not to eat when I was just a few years old. Of the 2,252 species in the family and some 600 buttercups in the genus perhaps a dozen and a half squeak into the edible realm. Potential famine food. Directly behind the first house I lived in there were buttercups and quicksand. Cows were known to drown there. In fact when I was four or five I fell head first into said. Was rescued by the family dog named “Sister” who wasn’t much more than a puppy herself.
The flowers do not taste very nice, as they are bitter, but when there is an abundance of the flowers it is hard for grazers not to eat them. Buttercups irritate the mouths of livestock who eat them, and can have abdominal pain, colic, and diarrhoea. In severe cases, the animal may have respiratory difficulty and convulsions. If eaten by cattle, buttercup poisoning can limit milk production, and even give the milk a bitter taste. To get rid of buttercups from your pasture, ensure your paddocks are well drained, and improve soil fertility. You can use the pasture-friendly chemical herbicide flumetsulam as a spray to remove buttercups
Both Cheeke and Knight et al (A Guide to Plant Poisoning of Animals in North America) say that feeding trials indicate that buttercup does not seriously affect cattle or sheep in most circumstances. However, bur buttercup is responsible for many sheep deaths, so do not teach your sheep to eat this. 
The animals most bothered by buttercups are grazing cows then horses, sheep and pigs, the latter two sometimes suffering paralysis. Humans are rarely poisoned by buttercups because they taste so bad. It is not fatal in small amounts but a significant irritant that can make you ill with gastric distress. Directly behind the first house I lived in there were buttercups and quicksand. Cows were known to drown there. In fact when I was four or five I fell head first into said. Was rescued by the family dog named “Sister” who wasn’t much more than a puppy herself.
Conditions of poisoning. Buttercups generally inhabit moist areas. Animals allowed to graze in woods, in wet meadows, and by ditches and streams browse the buttercups with other succulent plants. All animals are susceptible to buttercup poisoning, but cows are most often poisoned. In bloom. The cursed buttercup (Ranunculus sceleratus L.) is similar to the small-flowered buttercup but has divided basal leaves. Its stems are hollow. The hooked buttercup (Ranunculus recurvatus Poir.), so-named because of its hook-tipped seeds, has long yellow petals that form a flower 1 inch wide. The swamp buttercup (R. septentrionalis Poir.) has 3-lobed leaves and bright-yellow flowers 1 inch or more wide
Animals that eat buttercup may suffer from blistering of the mouth and internal parts of the gastrointestinal tract, diarrhea, colic, and, in severe cases, death. Fortunately, most animals will not eat buttercup because it is unpalatable. There are many species of buttercup; the most common in the Mid-Atlantic area is bulbous buttercup (Ranunculus bulbosus). It is named such because the plant forms a bulb-like base, called a corm, just below the soil surface.
Cattle and goats poisoned by buttercups produce bitter milk and a reddish color. The toxic material volatilizes and is lost when buttercups are dried as in hay.     25 A heavy growth of buttercup is an indication of low soil fertility. 