1. (Microbiology) any spherical or nearly spherical bacterium, such as a staphylococcus. Compare bacillus 1, spirillum 1. 2. (Botany) the part of a fruit that contains one seed and separates from the whole fruit at maturity. 3. (Animals) any of the scale insects of the genus Coccus. Noun. 1. coccus-any spherical or nearly spherical bacteria. cocci. eubacteria, eubacterium, true bacteria-a large group of bacteria having rigid cell walls; motile types have flagella.
pl. cocci [L.] a spherical bacterium, usually slightly less than 1 μm in diameter, belonging to the Micrococcaceae family. It is one of the three basic forms of bacteria, the other two being bacillus (rod-shaped) and spirillum (spiral-shaped). Almost all of the pathogenic cocci are either staphylococci, which occur in clusters, or streptococci, which occur in short or long chains.
Staphylococcus bacteria. Coccus (plural cocci) is a term used to describe any bacterium that has a spherical, ovoid, or generally round shape. It is one of the three distinct bacterial shapes, the other two being bacillus (rod-shaped) and spiral-shaped cells. Coccus is an English loanword of a Neolatin noun, which in turn stems from the Greek masculine noun kokkos (κόκκος) meaning berry.
Coccus: A bacterial cell that has the shape of a sphere. Coccus is part of the name of a number of bacteria, such as enterococcus, meningococcus, pneumococcus, staphylococcus, and streptococcus.
Coccus can be used to describe any bacterium that has a spherical shape. It is one of the three distinct types of bacteria shapes, the other two being bacillus and spirillum cells. Nearby & related entries: 1  cocculine. 2  cocculolidine. 3  cocculus. 4  cocculus carolinus. 5  cocculus indicus. 6  coccus hesperidum. 7  coccygeal. 8  coccygeal nerve. 9  coccygeal plexus. 10  coccygeal vertebra.
Definition of COCCUS. : a spherical bacterium. — coc·cal \ˈkae-ˈkä\ kəl. Adjective see coccus defined for. KIDS. advertisement 
Coccus. Coccus can be used to describe any bacterium that has a spherical shape. It is one of the three distinct types of bacteria shapes, the other two being bacillus and spirillum cells. Coccus is an English loanword of a Neolatin noun, which in turn stems from the Greek masculine noun kokkos meaning berry. The term 'coccus' is used in botany to denote a mericarp or 1-seeded segment of a schizocarp. Nearby & related entries: 1  cocculine. 2  cocculolidine. 3  cocculus. 4  cocculus carolinus. 5  cocculus indicus. 6  coccus hesperidum. 7  coccygeal. 8  coccygeal nerve. 9  coccygeal plexus. 10  coccygeal vertebra.
coccus. a spherical bacterium, usually slightly less than 1 μ in diameter, belonging to the Micrococcaceae family. It is one of the three basic forms of bacteria, the other two being bacillus (rod-shaped) and spirillum (spiral-shaped). Almost all of the pathogenic cocci are either staphylococci, which occur in clusters, or streptococci, which occur in short or long chains.