Caffeine is a white crystalline xanthine alkaloid that works as a psychoactive stimulant. In 1820, caffeine was first isolated from coffee by a German chemist and in 1821 by French chemists who later coined the word caffeine. The substance can be found in fruit, leaves and seeds. In certain plants it acts as a natural pesticide that kills insects who trying feeding on the vegetation. Research shows that most caffeine consumed by humans is extracted from the bean of the coffee plant and the leaves of the teach bush.
In 1820, caffeine was first isolated from coffee and seven years later in 1827 from tea and named theine. Soon after this, researchers found out that the properties of coffee and tea to change moods and behaviour is actually owing to the presence of caffeine in these substances. BACK 1 2 3 4 NEXT. Unadulterated caffeine appears like a white powdery substance something similar to cornstarch and tastes bitter. The white coffee powder is somewhat soluble in water at body temperature and dissolves completely in water when heated to boiling point.
Studies show that most people do not realize that caffeine is a drug, but it has some of the same negative qualities as other substances that are abused. Caffeine is most commonly consumed through liquids such as coffee, tea, energy drinks and soft drinks. It can also be obtained in pill form, powder or candy. The substance can be found in fruit, leaves and seeds. In certain plants it acts as a natural pesticide that kills insects who trying feeding on the vegetation. Research shows that most caffeine consumed by humans is extracted from the bean of the coffee plant and the leaves of the teach bush.
Caffeine can have both positive and negative health effects. It can be used to treat bronchopulmonary dysplasia of prematurity, and to prevent apnea of prematurity: caffeine citrate was placed on the WHO Model List of Essential Medicines in 2007. Products containing caffeine are coffee, tea, soft drinks (colas), energy drinks, other beverages, chocolate, caffeine tablets, other oral products, and inhalation.
Caffeine is a central nervous system (CNS) stimulant of the methylxanthine class of psychoactive drugs. It is the world's most widely consumed psychoactive drug, but unlike many other psychoactive substances, it is legal and unregulated in nearly all parts of the world. Products containing caffeine are coffee, tea, soft drinks (colas), energy drinks, other beverages, chocolate, caffeine tablets, other oral products, and inhalation.
Caffeine confers a survival advantage on the plant containing it in three ways. First, if it is ingested by an insect feeding on and potentially damaging or killing the plant, caffeine functions as a natural pesticide which can paralyze and kill the insect. Products containing caffeine are coffee, tea, soft drinks (colas), energy drinks, other beverages, chocolate, caffeine tablets, other oral products, and inhalation.
Caffeine is one of the oldest forms of stimuli know to the world, it is an organic substance found primarily found in coffee beans. Many people don’t know that caffeine is actually a chemical formula and not a physical substance like coffee beans or tea leaves. 
Making caffeine one of the most widely consumed psychoactive agents in the world! Caffeine is a drug like substance that shares traits with other addictive substances such as amphetamines, cocaine, and heroin. Caffeine uses the same biochemical mechanisms as these other drugs to stimulate brain function. The word “caffeine” originated from the German word “kaffee” and the French word “cafe”, café both directly translating to “mean.” Coffee’caffeine s chemical name is,1,3-7, trimethylxanthine based on its, FORMULA, c8h10n4o2 and molecular. structure
The newly discovered substance was dubbed caffeine, meaning something found in coffee. Then, in 1838 chemists discerned that the effective ingredient in tea was the same substance as Runge's caffeine. Before the end of the century the same drug would be found in kola nuts and cacao. 
Caffeine was first extracted from cocoa beans into its purest form, a white powder, in the 1820s by a German Scientist named Friedrich Ferdinand Runge. Today caffeine is easily extracted and used to make a variety of products that are consumed on a daily basis. The word “caffeine” originated from the German word “kaffee” and the French word “cafe”, café both directly translating to “mean.” Coffee’caffeine s chemical name is,1,3-7, trimethylxanthine based on its, FORMULA, c8h10n4o2 and molecular. structure