Adrenal glands are small, triangular glands located on top of both kidneys that interact with the hypothalamus and pituitary gland in the brain. The hormones secreted by the adrenal glands affect metabolism, chemicals in the blood and certain body characteristics.
For an adrenal gland tumor, different types of doctors often work together to create a patient’s overall treatment plan that combines different types of treatments. This is called a multidisciplinary team. Descriptions of the most common treatment options for an adrenal gland tumor are listed below.
Endocrinologists are doctors who specialize in the diagnosis and treatment of diseases of one or more glands. These doctors are well-trained experts who have studied the physiology and pathology of glands, and who provide care to patients with endocrine and metabolic diseases.
Finding an Adrenal Fatigue Doctor. This website is not meant to replace your doctor, but is designed to familiarize you with adrenal fatigue syndrome, so that when you visit your doctor, you will have the background knowledge you need to discuss your condition and treatment options.
1 Check the Adrenal Fatigue Doctor Review page to see if anyone has shared the name of a doctor in your area. 2  If not, post an inquiry. 3  Dr. Wilson's website has a short, but growing, list of physicians that are specifically familiar with adrenal fatigue and use Dr. Wilson's adrenal fatigue supplement program.
1 Symptoms of hormone underproduction, the cause of Addison’s disease, can include: weakness, fatigue, dizziness, dark skin, weight loss, dehydration, lack of appetite, muscle aches, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, low blood pressure and low sugar levels. 2  Women may also experience irregular or absent menstrual periods.
Found This Helpful. The human body has several glands that secrete small amounts of substances called hormones. Important among these are the pituitary gland in the brain, thyroid gland in the neck, and the adrenal glands, positioned above each kidney. Sometimes, when people feel tired, they hold these glands responsible.