One point is earned for indicating that pyridine is soluble in water because pyridine can form strong dipole-dipole interactions (or hydrogen bonds) with water, while benzene cannot. (b) Structures of the dimethyl ether molecule and the ethanol molecule are shown below. In part (a) pyridine is shown to be polar, whereas benzene is shown to be nonpolar, and the dipole-dipole interactions between pyridine’s lone pair of electrons and the positive end of water’s dipole is nicely described. In part (b) the mention of intermolecular hydrogen bonding between ethanol molecules is explicit.
2-Pyridone is an organic compound with the formula C 5H 4NH(O) . This colourless crystalline solid is used in peptide synthesis. It is well known to form hydrogen bonded structures somewhat related to the base-pairing mechanism found in RNA and DNA. In the solid state the dimeric form is not present; the 2-pyridones form a helical structure over hydrogen bonds. Some substituted 2-pyridones form the dimer in solid state, for example the 5-methyl-3-carbonitrile-2-pyridone.
Pyridine is a basic heterocyclic organic compound with the chemical formula C5 H5 N. It is structurally related to benzene, with one methine group (=CH-) replaced by a nitrogen atom. The pyridine ring occurs in many important compounds, including azines and the vitamins niacin and pyridoxal. The nitrogen center of pyridine features a basic lone pair of electrons. Because this lone pair is not part of the aromatic ring, pyridine is a base, having chemical properties similar to those of tertiary amines. The pKa of the conjugate acid is 5.25.
Pyridine-N-oxide is the heterocyclic compound with the formula C 5 H 5 NO. This colourless, hygroscopic solid is the product of the oxidation of pyridine. It was originally prepared using peracids as the oxidising agent. The molecule is planar. 
pyridine. n. 1. (Elements & Compounds) a colourless hygroscopic liquid with a characteristic odour. It is a basic heterocyclic compound containing one nitrogen atom and five carbon atoms in its molecules and is used as a solvent and in preparing other organic chemicals. A flammable, colorless or yellowish liquid base, C 5 H 5 N, having a penetrating odor and serving as the parent compound of many biologically important derivatives. It is used as a solvent and waterproofing agent and in the manufacture of various drugs and vitamins. [ pyr(o)- + -id(e) + -ine .].
The hydrogen attached to the nitrogen can also move to the oxygen. Through movement of this hydrogen and electrons, the second tautomer form, 2-hydroxypyridine is formed. This lactam lactim tautomerism can also be found in other molecules with a similar structure. In the solid state the dimeric form is not present; the 2-pyridones form a helical structure over hydrogen bonds. Some substituted 2-pyridones form the dimer in solid state, for example the 5-methyl-3-carbonitrile-2-pyridone.
Pyridine is a colorless liquid that boils at 115.2 °C and freezes at −41.6 °C. Its density, 0.9819 g/cm 3, is close to that of water, and its refractive index is 1.5093 at a wavelength of 589 nm and a temperature of 20 °C. The nitrogen center of pyridine features a basic lone pair of electrons. Because this lone pair is not part of the aromatic ring, pyridine is a base, having chemical properties similar to those of tertiary amines. The pKa of the conjugate acid is 5.25.
The observation of the preferential addition of Cl to the N-site of pyridine to form C(5)H(5)N-Cl radical but not 2-, 3-, or 4-chloropyridine (ClC(5)H(5)N) radicals is consistent with the reported theoretical prediction that formation of the former proceeds via a barrierless path. Reactions between atomic chlorine and pyridine in solid para-hydrogen: infrared spectrum of the 1-chloropyridinyl (C5H5N-Cl) radical.
Journal of Chemical Physics 2013-02-07 Reactions between atomic chlorine and pyridine in solid para-hydrogen: infrared spectrum of the 1-chloropyridinyl (C5H5N-Cl) radical. Prasanta Das, Mohammed Bahou, Yuan-Pern Lee. With infrared absorption spectra we investigated the reaction between Cl atom and pyridine (C(5)H(5)N) in a para-hydrogen (p-H(2)) matrix.
Addition of up to 40 mol% of water to pyridine gradually lowers its melting point from −41.6 °C to −65.0 °C. The molecular electric dipole moment is 2.2 debye. Pyridine is diamagnetic and has a diamagnetic susceptibility of −48.7 × 10 −6 cm 3 ·mol −1. The nitrogen center of pyridine features a basic lone pair of electrons. Because this lone pair is not part of the aromatic ring, pyridine is a base, having chemical properties similar to those of tertiary amines. The pKa of the conjugate acid is 5.25.