These vitamins are known to help keep the skin and eyes healthy, improve cell health, boost the digestive system and keep your nerves in check. So while Vegemite is considered a healthy spread, it’s what you eat it in conjunction with that could get you into trouble. Be wary of the bread you choose – white being the least nutritious – and avoid the butter if you can or choose an alternative like coconut spread or avocado. If so, you might be interested to know about the health benefits – and possible risks – of Vegemite. Vegemite is a quintessential Australian food, much loved by generations of Aussies.
Posted. As a non-aussie, I was under the impression vegemite was so healthy because it was somehow made from veg etables. I tried it and hated it, but IL's kept telling me if you start having it from a young age you'll enjoy it and it's so very healthy, and fair enough DD really like it. 
Description. Vegemite is a thick paste with a dark reddish-brown color and shiny appearance when spread. It is made from the wasted brewer's yeast that results from the process of making beer. When the yeast consumes all of the sugars in the beer during fermentation, it settles and is removed. Vegemite is a type of savory yeast extract spread, often eaten on crackers, toast or in sandwiches, particularly in New Zealand and Australia, where it originated. Similar to the British spread Marmite, Vegemite has a milder flavor and a smell sometimes described as being similar to soy sauce
Vegemite (/ˈvɛdʒɨmaɪt/ VEJ-ə-myt) is a dark brown Australian food paste made from leftover brewers' yeast extract with various vegetable and spice additives developed by Cyril P. Callister in Melbourne, Victoria, in 1922. Vegemite is salty, slightly bitter, malty, and rich in umami – similar to beef bouillon.
A spread for sandwiches, toast, crumpets and cracker biscuits as well as a filling for pastries, Vegemite is similar to British, New Zealand and South African Marmite, Australian Promite, Swiss Cenovis and German Hefeextrakt. Vegemite is salty, slightly bitter, malty, and rich in umami – similar to beef bouillon.
Vegemite is a thick paste with a dark reddish-brown color and shiny appearance when spread. It is made from the wasted brewer's yeast that results from the process of making beer. Vegemite is a type of savory yeast extract spread, often eaten on crackers, toast or in sandwiches, particularly in New Zealand and Australia, where it originated. Similar to the British spread Marmite, Vegemite has a milder flavor and a smell sometimes described as being similar to soy sauce
People like vegemite because it tastes good, I love vegemite and I live in Australia, it is also the fact that many children are brought up on vegemite so people get used to t … he taste. Vegemite is also healthy aswell and has a very unique taste, very salty however. 3 people found this useful. as my interests are far and wide. It is good source of Vitamin B: however, it contains far too much salt to be considered a healthy food by today's standards. Vegemite was, and still is, promoted as a healthy spread for growing children. It is also very low in fat