Two Main Types. There are two main types of scleroderma: Localized and Systemic. The systemic forms can affect any part of the body (skin, blood vessels, and internal organs.) The systemic forms are also referred to as systemic sclerosis plus other terms such as diffuse, limited, CREST, and overlap. Systemic Sclerosis (Scleroderma): Prognosis and Mortality. Now that the full range of types and severity of scleroderma are being recognized and diagnosed, there is increasing awareness that many people have a milder type of illness with a much rosier longterm prognosis. ISN.
Systemic Sclerosis (Systemic Scleroderma). Systemic scleroderma is also known as systemic sclerosis (SSc). There are several types, Limited/CREST and Diffuse. These types can affect the entire body, including the skin, blood vessels, and/or internal organs. Systemic Sclerosis (Scleroderma): Prognosis and Mortality. Now that the full range of types and severity of scleroderma are being recognized and diagnosed, there is increasing awareness that many people have a milder type of illness with a much rosier longterm prognosis. ISN.
Systemic sclerosis or systemic scleroderma is an autoimmune or connective tissue disease. It is characterized by thickening of the skin caused by accumulation of collagen, and by injuries to the smallest arteries. There is no clear obvious cause for scleroderma and systemic sclerosis. Genetic predisposition appears to be limited: genetic concordance is small; still, there often is a familial predisposition for autoimmune disease. Polymorphisms in COL1A2 and TGF-β1 may influence severity and development of the disease
There are two types of scleroderma: localized and systemic. Localized scleroderma usually affects one or a few areas of skin and muscle. The types of localized scleroderma include morphea (mor-FEE-ah) and linear scleroderma. * Morphea appears as one or more thickened patches or plaques (plax). The plaques are frequently smooth and become hard.
Localized types of scleroderma are those limited to the skin and related tissues and, in some cases, the muscle below. Internal organs are not affected by localized scleroderma, and localized scleroderma can never progress to the systemic form of the disease. Systemic Scleroderma (also known as Systemic Sclerosis). Systemic scleroderma, or systemic sclerosis, is the term for the disease that not only includes the skin, but also involves the tissues beneath to the blood vessels and major organs. Systemic sclerosis is typically broken down into diffuse and limited
Definition and etiology. Scleroderma, or systemic sclerosis (SSc), is a chronic multisystem autoimmune disease characterized by a vasculopathy, diffuse fibrosis of skin and various internal organs, and immune abnormalities. Systemic scleroderma always leads to some internal organ involvement. It is further divided into two subsets of disease, limited or diffuse (see Box 1). According to LeRoy and colleagues, limited or diffuse disease is based on the extent of skin tightening.
Scleroderma, or systemic sclerosis, is a chronic connective tissue disease generally classified as one of the autoimmune rheumatic diseases. The word “scleroderma” comes from two Greek words: “sclero” meaning hard, and “derma” meaning skin. Hardening of the skin is one of the most visible manifestations of the disease. The disease has been called “progressive systemic sclerosis,” but the use of that term has been discouraged since it has been found that scleroderma is not necessarily progressive. The disease varies from patient-to-patient. What scleroderma is not. Scleroderma is not contagious, infectious, cancerous or malignant