Any disease can affect the organ system because it invades the body and alters the way things work. Different diseases will affect different organ systems. This diseases can b … e caused by genetics, bacteria, poor nutrition, viruses, parasites and fungi. Diseases will damage or change the way the organ system works, causing harm to the body.
When you have Crohn's disease, your body's immune system begins attacking healthy cells in your GI tract, causing inflammation. Because it is a disease of the immune system, Crohn's is classified medically as an autoimmune disorder. This means that your body is producing antibodies that work against itself. 
Graves' disease is an autoimmune disease that affects the thyroid. The thyroid is a small gland in the front of the neck. It makes hormones called T3 and T4 that regulate how the body uses energy. Thyroid hormone levels are controlled by the pituitary, which is a pea-sized gland in the brain. 1 Eye symptoms can occur before, at the same time, or after other symptoms of Graves' disease begin. 2  It may rarely occur in people with normal thyroid function. 3  We do not know why these eye problems occur. 4  They are more common in people who smoke, and smoking makes eye symptoms worse.
For unknown reasons, like many autoimmune diseases, Graves’ is also more likely to affect women than men. In Graves’ disease, your immune system creates antibodies that cause the thyroid to grow and make more thyroid hormone than your body needs. These antibodies are called thyroid-stimulating immunoglobulins (TSIs). Graves’ disease is often the underlying cause of hyperthyroidism. Thyroid Gland Autoimmune problems—of which there are many different types—develop when your immune system causes disease by attacking healthy tissues.
Graves' disease, also known as toxic diffuse goiter and Flajani-Basedow-Graves disease, is an autoimmune disease that affects the thyroid. It frequently results in hyperthyroidism and an enlarged thyroid. 
Continue ReadingGraves’ Disease Diagnosis. As with most autoimmune disorders, it’s hard to pinpoint the exact cause of Graves’ disease—the most common cause of hyperthyroidism. When you have an autoimmune disorder, such as Graves’ disease, your immune system mistakenly turns against your body. 
Most people with Graves' disease have symptoms that are bothersome. If you have symptoms of Graves' disease, your doctor will do an exam and order one or more tests. Tests used to help find out if you have Graves' disease include: 1  Thyroid function tests. 2  A blood sample is sent to a lab to see if your body has the right amount of thyroid hormone (T4) and TSH. 1 Eye symptoms can occur before, at the same time, or after other symptoms of Graves' disease begin. 2  It may rarely occur in people with normal thyroid function. 3  We do not know why these eye problems occur. 4  They are more common in people who smoke, and smoking makes eye symptoms worse.
Graves' disease is an immune system disorder that results in the overproduction of thyroid hormones (hyperthyroidism). Although a number of disorders may result in hyperthyroidism, Graves' disease is a common cause. Because thyroid hormones affect a number of different body systems, signs and symptoms associated with Graves' disease can be wide ranging and significantly influence your overall well-being. Although Graves' disease may affect anyone, it's more common among women and before the age of 40. The primary treatment goals are to inhibit the overproduction of thyroid hormones and lessen the severity of symptoms
Causes of Graves' disease. Unfortunately, scientists are still yet to pinpoint an exact cause of Graves' disease. We know the body's immune system is somehow tricked by the antibody associated with Graves' disease to attack the thyroid gland, causing hyperthyroidism. There is research to suggest Graves' disease may be caused by a combination of genetic and environmental factors. 1 Graves' disease is the most common cause of hyperthyroidism. 2  The disease is also the most common type autoimmune disease in the US. 2. 3  It is more common in women under the age of 40, but can also be found in men. 4  Graves' disease affects an estimated 2-3% of the world's population.
Graves' disease is an autoimmune disorder, and the most common one of its kind in the US. An autoimmune disorder is the body's immune system mistakenly identifying healthy cells as foreign invaders and attacking them. 1 Graves' disease is the most common cause of hyperthyroidism. 2  The disease is also the most common type autoimmune disease in the US. 2. 3  It is more common in women under the age of 40, but can also be found in men. 4  Graves' disease affects an estimated 2-3% of the world's population.