^ TOP. ^ TOP. Kiama is a well-known and popular coastal resort town known, around Australia, for the famous Kiama Blowhole, a cavern-like fissure in the volcanic rocks which produces dramatic 'blows' of water when the winds and waves are in the right direction. 
This is the Blowhole at Kiama, south of Wollongong on the New South Wales South Coast, where the water spouts at least a good couple of storeys into the air on a good day. This happens in a matter of seconds and very much without warning. The lighthouse sits on top of the low cliff at the point. 
Kiama's Little Blowhole is situated just off Tingira Crescent, three kilometres south of Kiama township and just a 10-minute drive away from the Kiama Blowhole. See vigorous sprays of water emanating from a natural rocky cove when the north easterly winds are blowing. Blowhole. The Kiama region of the NSW South Coast is known for its unspoilt natural beauty. One of the highlights of a visit to Kiama is to spend some time at the famous blowhole, a natural rock formation where water spouts 20 metres or more into the air.
A fascinating attraction is Kiama's famous Blowhole. In calm weather it is fairly unimpressive, but when the seas are rough and coming from the south-east water is forced to a height of 60m, creating a loud and spectacular sight. The blowhole is floodlit at night. Blowhole Point is also the location of the Kiama Lighthouse, along with the beautifully restored Pilot's Cottage, run by the local historical society as a maritime and regional museum.
The Kiama Blowhole is a blowhole in the town of Kiama, New South Wales, Australia. It is the town's major tourist attraction. Under certain sea conditions, the blowhole can spray water up to 25 metres (82 ft) in the air, in quantities that thoroughly drench any bystanders. There is a second, less famous blowhole in Kiama, commonly referred to as the Little Blowhole by locals. It is much smaller than the other (called the Big Blowhole), but due to its narrow shape, it is more reliable than the Big Blowhole, and in the right conditions can be equally spectacular. The blowhole attracts 600,000 tourists a year. Kiama Blowhole is just a few metres beyond the coastline
Kiama /kaɪˈaemə/ kaɪˈæmə is a township 120 kilometres south Of sydney in The, Illawarra New South, Wales australia in The municipality Of. kiama The name Kiama is derived from the Aboriginal word  kiarama , which means Place where the sea makes a noise. Kiama is also known as the place where the mountains touch the sea. This is in reference to the Kiama Blowhole which attracts a large number of visitors each year.
1. Kiama, NSW. When the seas are heaving and the wind blows from the south-east, the Kiama blowhole can shoot water 60 m into the air, making it one of the highest in the world. The region's indigenous people, the Wadi Wadi, call it Khanterintee, which means 'mysterious noise'.
For the corresponding seat in the New South Wales Legislative Assembly, see Electoral district of Kiama. Kiama /kaɪˈaemə/ kaɪˈæmə is a township 120 kilometres south Of sydney in The, Illawarra New South, Wales australia in The municipality Of. Kiama at the 2011, Census kiama had a population 12,817 12817. people The name Kiama is derived from the Aboriginal word  kiarama , which means Place where the sea makes a noise. Kiama is also known as the place where the mountains touch the sea. This is in reference to the Kiama Blowhole which attracts a large number of visitors each year.
Kiama Lighthouse, on Blowhole Point, was built in 1887 and is situated close to the Kiama Blowhole. The point also contains a heritage pilot's cottage and a tourist information centre. North West of the Blowhole is Kiama Harbour, home to fishing boats and seafood market where you can buy local fish. The name Kiama is derived from the Aboriginal word  kiarama , which means Place where the sea makes a noise. Kiama is also known as the place where the mountains touch the sea. This is in reference to the Kiama Blowhole which attracts a large number of visitors each year.