Irish Meaning: The name Kaitlyn is an Irish baby name. In Irish the meaning of the name Kaitlyn is: Modern phonetic form of the Irish name Caitlin from Catherine meaning pure. American Meaning: The name Kaitlyn is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Kaitlyn is: Modern phonetic form of the Irish name Caitlin from Catherine meaning pure.
Kaitlyn is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 7 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Kait-lyn. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 158 in baby name popularity for girls with 2044 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Kaitlyn Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Kaitlyn has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Kaitlyn to other names. Kaitlyn is a variant spelling of Kaitli
The first thing you should know if you are considering Kaitlyn for your baby's name is that in most countries all over the world the name Kaitlyn is a girl name. The name Kaitlyn is of Celtic-Gaelic origin, and is used mostly in English speaking countries but also in a few other countries and languages of the world. Kaitlyn Name Meaning. The meaning of Kaitlyn is “Pure”. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant.
Irish names usually contain a given, middle and family name. Given names frequently have their source in the Roman Catholic faith, or are derived from the traditional Gaelic. Some Gaelic or old Irish names date back to the Celtic origins of Gaelach (Ireland). In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 158 in baby name popularity for girls with 2044 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Kaitlyn Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Kaitlyn has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Kaitlyn to other names.
Kaitlyn is a very prominent first name for females (#1043 out of 4276, Top 24%) but an uncommon last name for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the birth name popularity of Kaitlyn for girls. Kaitlyn /kait-lyn/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name. Kaitlyn's roots are Old French and Greek, and the name Kaitlyn means pure. Kaitlyn is an alternate form of Caitlin (Old French, Greek). Kaitlyn is also a variation of Kaitlin. Kaitlyn is also used as a derivative of Katherine (Greek). Kreatif forms: Keitlyn
Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Kaitlyn and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Kaitlyn and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. Kaitlyn Name Meaning. The meaning of Kaitlyn is “Pure”. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant.
Meanings and history of the name Kaitlyn : | Edit. Kaitlyn is a form of Kathryn or Catherine, meaning pure. It is irish, and has many alternative (better and more unique) spellings. http://www.babynamesofireland.com/pages/girl-names-i-m.html. Comments and insights on the name Kaitlyn: | Edit. I am 23 and named Kaitlyn. Immediately following my birth in 1987 Kaitlyn became very popular (spelled many different ways-Caitlin, Kaitlin, Katelynn, etc.) As a result I have known many many many people with my name.
Greek Meaning: The name Kaitlin is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Kaitlin is: Pure. American Meaning: The name Kaitlin is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Kaitlin is: Pure. Irish Meaning: The name Kaitlin is an Irish baby name. In Irish the meaning of the name Kaitlin is: Modern phonetic form of the Irish name Caitlin from Catherine meaning pure.