What exactly happens when a guy gets blue balls? Blue balls are not just a figment of a male's imagination or a lame excuse to try and get you in the sack. Though it doesn't happen to all men, it is a very real condition that results from a prolonged state of sexual arousal. When a guy is physically turned on, blood flows to his penis, which is what gives him an erection, and his testicles, causing them to swell. If he doesn't ejaculate, there is a buildup of pressure, and his supersensitive balls feel the brunt of it.
Blue balls is a slang term for the condition of temporary fluid congestion (vasocongestion) in the testicles accompanied by testicular pain, caused by prolonged sexual arousal in the human male without ejaculation. The term is thought to have originated in the United States, first appearing in 1916. 
http://www.answers.com/blue%20ball Blue balls is a slang term for a temporary fluid congestion in the testicles and prostate region caused by prolonged sexual arousal in the human male. It is often accompanied by a cramp-like ache of prostatic congestion and pain/tenderness of the testes. 
Blue balls is a slang term for the condition of temporary fluid congestion in the testicles and prostate region, accompanied by acute testicular pain, or a prolonged dull aching pain emanating from the prostate, caused by prolonged and unsatisfied sexual arousal in the human male. 
[http://onlineslangdictionary.com/meaning-definition-of/blue-balls blue balls]. 1  a painful sensation in the balls (testicles) caused by prolonged sexual arousal that does not end in ejaculation. 1 a painful sensation in the balls (testicles) caused by prolonged sexual arousal that does not end in ejaculation. 2  Citation from Dog and Pony, Terriers (TV, 2010), Season 1 Episode 2 blacked out to resolve Google's penalty against this site.
If what you mean is your testicles turning blue, then no. The discomfort known as blue balls is, however, real. It is caused by having an erection for an extended amount of … time and not ejaculating before your erection is gone. And if you haven't caught this yet, only males can get blue balls.
Blue balls is a slang term referring to testicular aching that may occur when the blood that fills the vessels in a male's genital area during sexual arousal is not dissipated by orgasm. If ejaculation does not occur there may be a lingering sensation of heaviness, aching, or discomfort in the testicles due to the continued vasocongestion. This unpleasant feeling has popularly been called blue balls, perhaps because of the bluish tint that appears when blood engorges the vessels in the testicles.
Anonymous. Sexual Health. I've heard the term blue balls before but I'm not sure I know exactly what it means. One of my girl friends told me its caused by a guy going too long without a release, but I thought if a guy goes long without release, then he just has a wet dream. 
Search form. Epididymal hypertension, or blue balls refers to testicular aching that occurs when the blood in the male’s genitals is retained after prolonged sexual arousal and is not dissipated by an orgasm.
Submit. · just now. Report Abuse. Blue balls is a slang term referring to testicular aching that may occur when the blood that fills the vessels in a male's genital area during sexual arousal is not dissipated by orgasm. 