Visit the Interactive Plate Boundary Map to explore satellite images of divergent boundaries between continental plates. Two locations are marked within the rift valley of East Africa and another location is marked within the Red Sea. Effects that are found at a divergent boundary between oceanic plates include: a submarine mountain range such as the Mid-Atlantic Ridge; volcanic activity in the form of fissure eruptions; shallow earthquake activity; creation of new seafloor and a widening ocean basin.
Divergent boundaries within continents initially produce rifts which eventually become rift valleys. Most active divergent plate boundaries occur between oceanic plates and exist as mid-oceanic ridges. Divergent boundaries also form volcanic islands which occur when the plates move apart to produce gaps which molten lava rises to fill.
Over millions of years, tectonic plates may move many hundreds of kilometers away from both sides of a divergent plate boundary. Because of this, rocks closest to a boundary are younger than rocks further away on the same plate. Most active divergent plate boundaries occur between oceanic plates and exist as mid-oceanic ridges. Divergent boundaries also form volcanic islands which occur when the plates move apart to produce gaps which molten lava rises to fill.
A divergent boundary (or constructive boundary) is where two sections of the egg shell-two tectonic plates-are moving away from each other. When this happens, they leave a gap in-between, and this gap can be filled by the magma from below. Features of Divergent Boundaries. Exactly what happens when two plates diverge depends on the type of plates involved. There are two types of plates: oceanic plates and continental plates. Oceanic plates are, unsurprisingly, plates below sea level and therefore under oceans.
Plate Boundaries. Objectives: 1. Explain the differences between divergent, convergent, and transform plate boundaries. 2. Describe the land features associated with each type of plate boundary. 3. Give examples of land structures found at each plate boundary. 
In the theory of plate tectonics, the earth's crust is broken into plates that move around relative to each other. As a result of this movement, three types of plate boundaries are formed: divergent, convergent, and transform boundaries. Divergent boundaries are boundaries where plates pull away from each other, forming mild earthquakes and volcanoes as magma comes to the surface. Convergent boundaries are boundaries where two plates are pushing in
At divergent boundaries, two plates move apart from each other and the space that this creates is filled with new crustal material sourced from molten magma that forms below. The origin of new divergent boundaries at triple junctions is sometimes thought to be associated with the phenomenon known as hotspots. Most active divergent plate boundaries occur between oceanic plates and exist as mid-oceanic ridges. Divergent boundaries also form volcanic islands which occur when the plates move apart to produce gaps which molten lava rises to fill.
There it forms characteristics of a continental divergence, and a rift is forming on the island. Eventually Iceland will break into two separate islands, with sea in between. The East African Rift is a continental divergent boundary in East Africa. Features of Divergent Boundaries. Exactly what happens when two plates diverge depends on the type of plates involved. There are two types of plates: oceanic plates and continental plates. Oceanic plates are, unsurprisingly, plates below sea level and therefore under oceans.
In plate tectonics, a divergent boundary or divergent plate boundary (also known as a constructive boundary or an extensional boundary) is a linear feature that exists between two tectonic plates that are moving away from each other. Most active divergent plate boundaries occur between oceanic plates and exist as mid-oceanic ridges. Divergent boundaries also form volcanic islands which occur when the plates move apart to produce gaps which molten lava rises to fill.
Divergent Boundary. Introduction. A divergent boundary is an area where two crustal plates are separating. Most of these tectonic plate boundaries are located on the floor of the oceans. The separating plates form rift valleys on the ocean floor where there are weaknesses in the crust. New oceanic crust. 