The nuchal translucency is the fluid found at the back of your baby’s head and neck, just beneath the skin. The thickness of this fluid can be precisely measured and this is called the nuchal translucency (or NT) measurement. Normally the amount of fluid is small, producing a thin NT measurement. We know that the amount of fluid can increase in the presence of certain conditions, producing a thicker NT measurement. The best time to have the blood test is 10 weeks gestation, however it can be performed at any time between 10 and 13 weeks 6 days gestation. It is ideal (but not essential) to have the blood test results available at your nuchal translucency ultrasound.
A nuchal scan (NT Procedure) is a sonographic prenatal screening scan (ultrasound) to help identify higher chances for chromosomal conditions including Down syndrome in a fetus, particularly for older women who have higher risks of such pregnancies. There are two distinct measurements – the nuchal translucency, which is measured earlier in pregnancy at the end of the first trimester, and for which there is a lower threshold for increased diameter, and the nuchal fold, which is measured towards the end of the second trimester.
Information for Your Patients What is first trimester risk assessment for Down syndrome? First trimester screening for Down syndrome, also known as nuchal translucency screening, is a test offered to women in their first trimester of pregnancy to determine the chance that they will have a baby with Down syndrome. 
An NT scan can't tell you for certain whether or not your baby is affected. What it can do is help you to decide whether or not to have a diagnostic test. This ultrasound scan must take place at between 11 weeks and 13 weeks plus six days of pregnancy, or when your baby is between 45mm and 84mm. It can be measured using ultrasound : All babies have some fluid at the back of their neck. But many babies with Down syndrome have an increased amount (Snijders et al 1998: 351, 343-6) . A nuchal translucency (NT) scan is a screening test that assesses whether or not your baby is likely to have Down syndrome.
A nuchal translucency ultrasound (commonly called a “nuchal scan” or “NT scan”) is an ultrasound performed between 11.5 and 13 weeks 6 days gestation. It is usually part of an assessment called combined first trimester screening. The best time to have the blood test is 10 weeks gestation, however it can be performed at any time between 10 and 13 weeks 6 days gestation. It is ideal (but not essential) to have the blood test results available at your nuchal translucency ultrasound.
The NT scan must be done when you're between 11 and 14 weeks pregnant, because this is when the base of your baby's neck is still transparent. (The last day you can have it is the day you turn 13 weeks and 6 days pregnant.) It's usually offered along with a blood test in first-trimester combined screening options. The NT scan is offered to all pregnant women in the first trimester. The screening is widely available, but because it requires special training and equipment, not all healthcare providers provide it. Ultrasound exam Find out what doctors look for and how ultrasound exams are done.
The nuchal translucency scan (also called the NT scan) uses ultrasound to assess your developing baby's risk of having Down syndrome (DS) and some other chromosomal abnormalities, as well as major congenital heart problems. The NT scan measures the clear (translucent) space in the tissue at the back of your baby's neck. The NT scan is offered to all pregnant women in the first trimester. The screening is widely available, but because it requires special training and equipment, not all healthcare providers provide it. Ultrasound exam Find out what doctors look for and how ultrasound exams are done.
A nuchal scan, or nuchal translucency (NT) scan, is often used as a screening test for Down's syndrome. Nuchal translucency is a collection of fluid under the skin at the back of your baby's neck. It can be measured using ultrasound : All babies have some fluid at the back of their neck. 
Nuchal translucency is a finding during a specific period in the late first trimester and early second trimester (11.3-13.6 weeks) and should not be confused with nuchal thickness which is measured in the second trimester. Increased nuchal translucency is thought to be related to dilated lymphatic channels and is considered a nonspecific sign of more generalized fetal abnormality. Measurement of the nuchal lucency requires careful attention to technique.
Nuchal Translucency Screening Test. Guide. The nuchal (say NEW-kuhl) translucency screening is a test done during pregnancy. It uses ultrasound to measure the thickness of the fluid buildup at the back of the developing baby's neck. If this area is thicker than normal, it can be an early sign of Down syndrome, trisomy 18, or heart problems. 