it means that the acid or the base doesn't completely dissociate when placed in water. Let's take a weak acid. HNO2. When placed in water, not all of the HNO2 molecules will b … reak apart. The ions in the solution will be H+, NO2-, and HNO2. Because there are less ions in the solution, the acid/base is weak. Not all of the HNO2 will break apart! A strong acid will completely dissociate. That means if you place HCl in water, the ions will be H+, and Cl-, NO HCl.
In pure water, there are an equal number of hydrogen ions and hydroxide ions. The solution is neither acidic or basic. An acid is a substance that donates hydrogen ions. Because of this, when an acid is dissolved in water, the balance between hydrogen ions and hydroxide ions is shifted. Now there are more hydrogen ions than hydroxide ions in the solution. This kind of solution is acidic. To be more precise, pH is the negative logarithm of the hydrogen ion concentration: pH = −log [H+]. The square brackets around the H + automatically mean concentration to a chemist. What the equation means is just what we said before: for each 1-unit change in pH, the hydrogen ion concentration changes ten-fold.
An acid (from the Latin acidus/acēre meaning sour) is a chemical substance whose aqueous solutions are characterized by a sour taste, the ability to turn blue litmus red, and the ability to react with bases and certain metals (like calcium) to form salts. Aqueous solutions of acids have a pH of less than 7. 
Acidic water (often referred to as electrolyzed water) is water with a potential hydrogen (pH) of less than 7. pH refers to the amount of hydrogen mixed in with the water. 
The adjective ACIDIC has 2 senses: 1. being or containing an acid; of a solution having an excess of hydrogen atoms (having a pH of less than 7). 2. being sour to the taste. Familiarity information: ACIDIC used as an adjective is rare. Dictionary entry details. Being or containing an acid; of a solution having an excess of hydrogen atoms (having a pH of less than 7). Similar: acid (having the characteristics of an acid). acid-forming (yielding an acid in aqueous solution)
A base is a substance that accepts hydrogen ions. When a base is dissolved in water, the balance between hydrogen ions and hydroxide ions shifts the opposite way. Because the base soaks up hydrogen ions, the result is a solution with more hydroxide ions than hydrogen ions. This kind of solution is alkaline. To be more precise, pH is the negative logarithm of the hydrogen ion concentration: pH = −log [H+]. The square brackets around the H + automatically mean concentration to a chemist. What the equation means is just what we said before: for each 1-unit change in pH, the hydrogen ion concentration changes ten-fold.
A pH number measures from 0 to14 how acidic or alkaline a liquid is -- anything above 7 is alkaline and anything below 7 is acid. Water has a pH level of 7 -- it's neutral, meaning it has the same amount of acids and alkalis, which balance each other out. 
pH (potential of hydrogen) is a measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a solution. The pH is measured on a scale of 0 to 14--the lower the pH the more acidic the solution, the higher the pH the more alkaline (or base) the solution. When a body is healthy, the pH of blood is 7.4, the pH of urine is 7.4, and the pH of saliva is 7.4. The pH of saliva or urine parallels the extra cellular fluid. Certain areas of the body should be more acidic than others-such as the stomach. Other areas should be more on the alkaline side. When testing the urine or saliva with pH paper sticks, aim for a level of 7.4. The foods we eat are digested and they break down into either an acid or an alkaline end-product in our tissues.