Roger Williams founded a new colony in Rhode Island. Twenty families joined Williams, originally, in setting up the colony. The colony was set up based on the concept of freedom of religion. 
In 1636, Rhode Island was founded by a group of Puritans fleeing religious persecution in Massachusetts. Roger Williams and Ann Hutchinson is credited as being the leader of these people. They settled in Providence and established a rule of religious tolerance. Rhode Island was founded by Roger Williams. He signed the deed to it in I think 1641. It was founded by when he was kicked out of Massachusetts because of his religious belie … fs and what religion he preached. 16 people found this useful.
Williams founded the colony of Rhode Island based upon principles of complete religious toleration, separation of church and state, and political democracy (values that the U.S. would later be founded upon). It became a refuge for people persecuted for their religious beliefs. 
Rhode Island was founded by Roger Williams. He signed the deed to it in I think 1641. It was founded by when he was kicked out of Massachusetts because of his religious belie … fs and what religion he preached. Rhode Island was founded because of religious freedom, ideals, and  philosophy.    It was founded as an experiment in religious freedom and tolerance.    Roger … Williams founded Rhode Island in 1636. He was around 33 when  he founded the colony
History of Providence. One of the oldest cities in the United States, Providence was founded by Roger Williams in 1636 after he was banished from the Massachusetts colony for his religious views. Because of his policy of complete religious toleration, Rhode Island became a haven for refugees from bigotry
Roger Williams and Anne Hutchinson founded Rhode Island. They founded Rhode Island because of the religious tension in Massachusetts. Rhode Island was founded because of religious freedom, ideals, and  philosophy.    It was founded as an experiment in religious freedom and tolerance.    Roger … Williams founded Rhode Island in 1636. He was around 33 when  he founded the colony
Rhode Island is a state that is located at New England. With 39 cities and towns, Rhode Island is considered to be the smallest state that belongs to the United States. Rhode Island’s full name is Rhode Island and Providence Plantations. This name was derived from the union of two colonies, Rhode Island and Providence Plantations.
Rhode Island was founded by Roger Williams, after being thrown out of Massachusetts in 1635. In 1636, the colony was established as the Providence Plantations. Rhode Island was founded because of religious freedom, ideals, and  philosophy.    It was founded as an experiment in religious freedom and tolerance.    Roger … Williams founded Rhode Island in 1636. He was around 33 when  he founded the colony
Rhode Island colony was founded on what is now commonly called Aquidneck Island, the largest of several islands in Narragansett Bay, and included the settlements of Newport and Portsmouth. Providence Plantations was the name of the colony founded by Roger Williams in the area now known as the city of Providence. Rhode Island (/ˌroʊd ˈaɪlɨnd/ or /rɵˈdaɪlɨnd/), officially the State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations, is a state in the New England region of the United States.