The World's most comprehensive professionally edited abbreviations and acronyms database. All trademarks/service marks referenced on this site are properties of their respective owners. The Acronym Finder is ©1988-2015, Acronym Finder, All Rights Reserved. 
pyro-. 1. a combining form meaning “fire,” “heat,” “high temperature,” used in the formation of compound words: pyrogen; pyromancy. 2. a. a combining form used in the names of inorganic acids, the water content of which is intermediate between the ortho and meta forms of an acid: pyrophosphoric acid. b. a combining form used in the names of the salts of these acids. pyro-, comb. form of pŷr fire 1  ]. Facebook.
Pyro comes from the Greek word πυρ (pyr) meaning fire. It may also refer to: 1  Pyro-, a chemistry prefix indicating a dimeric acid anhydride (e.g., pyrophosphoric acid). 2  Pyro (horse) , American thoroughbred racehorse. 1 Pyro cable, a copper-clad electrical cable mineral-insulated for fire resistance. 2  Pyro Plastics Corporation, a plastic model kit maker 1940s through the 1970s.
pyro-. 1. Combining form denoting fire, heat, or fever. See also: pyreto-. 2. chemistry Combining form denoting derivatives formed by removal of water (usually by heat) to form anhydrides. pyro-, prefix meaning fire or heat, or produced by heating: pyrocatechin, pyrodextrin, pyromania.
Pyr(o)- | definition of pyr(o)- by Medical dictionary. 
pyro-. 1. Combining form denoting fire, heat, or fever. 2. In chemistry, combining form denoting derivatives formed by removal of water (usually by heat) to form anhydrides. pyro-, prefix meaning fire or heat, or produced by heating: pyrocatechin, pyrodextrin, pyromania.
Pyr-. combining forms designating fire or heat; specifically (Chem.), used to imply an actual or theoretical derivative by the action of heat; as in pyrophosphoric, pyrosulphuric, pyrotartaric, pyrotungstic, etc. Origin: [Gr. , , fire.]
Pyr. Pyr is the science fiction and fantasy imprint of Prometheus Books, launched in March 2005 with the publication of John Meaney's Paradox. Prometheus Books' name was derived from Prometheus, the Titan from Greek mythology who gave fire to humans. The name Pyr, the Greek word for fire, was chose to continue this connection to fire and the liveliness of imagination. Lou Anders has served as Pyr's editorial director since its inception.
What does the greek root pyr refer to? already exists. already exists as an alternate of this question. exists and is an alternate of. Now how many movie theaters do you have participating in Dealflicks, and what's the process like if a new movie theater wants to join? What was the term that referred to anything Greek? What does the greek word ... it is from the Greek language meaning an ancient Greek city state. Now used in the formation of place names, as in Annapolis, Metropolis, It can also mean citizenship or a bod … y of citizens.
It means fire, from the ancient πυρ (pyr) meaning fire.Modern Greek φωτια (fotia). it is from the Greek language meaning an ancient Greek city state. Now used in the formation of place names, as in Annapolis, Metropolis, It can also mean citizenship or a bod … y of citizens.