Sterile and Bacteriostatic Water are used for diluting or dissolving drugs for intravenous, intramuscular or subcutaneous injection, according to instructions of the manufacturer of the drug to be administered. Due to potential toxicity, solutions containing benzyl alcohol should not be used in neonates.
Saline is salt water. Sterile water is plain water. They are both sterile, but not the same. Both can be used to dilute medicines, in for example, but different medicines require different solutes. Saline is isotonic to blood, and so could be given iv in large volumes by itself.
Sterile Water for Injection, USP in the Pharmacy Bulk Package is intended for use in the preparation of sterile, intravenous admixtures. Additives may be incompatible with the fluid withdrawn from this container. Complete information is not available. Those additives known to be incompatible should not be used.
Sterile Water for Injection, USP, is a sterile, nonpyrogenic, distilled water in a Pharmacy Bulk Package. A Pharmacy Bulk Package is a container of a sterile preparation for parenteral use that contains many single doses.: a single puncture, multiple dispensing package.
Bacteriostatic Water for Injection is sterile non-pyrogenic water that contains 0.9% benzyl alcohol (9mg/mL), which is added as a bacteriostatic preservative. This preparation of sterile water and benzyl alcohol (BnOH) allows repeated withdrawals to be made from a single 30mL plastic vial.
From http://www.drugs.com/pro/bacteriostatic-water-for-injection.html. Bacteriostatic Water for Injection, USP is a sterile, nonpyrogenic preparation of water for injection containing 0.9% (9 mg/mL) of benzyl alcohol added as a bacteriostatic preservative. . ie.
Indications and Usage for Sterile Water for Injection. This parenteral preparation is indicated only for diluting or dissolving drugs for intravenous, intramuscular or subcutaneous injection, according to instructions of the manufacturer of the drug to be administered.
Sterile Water for Injection, USP is a sterile, nonpyrogenic preparation of water for injection which contains no bacteriostat, antimicrobial agent or added buffer and is supplied only in single-dose containers to dilute or dissolve drugs for injection.
Hospira Sterile Water for injection, USP is a sterile, nonpyrogenic preparation of water for injection that contains no bacteriostat, antimicrobial agent or added buffer and is dispensed in a single-dose bottle used to dilute or dissolve drugs for injection.