Psyllium /ˈsɪliəm/ , or Ispaghula /ˌɪspəˈɡuːlə/ , is the common name used for several members of the plant genus Plantago whose seeds are used commercially for the production of mucilage. Psyllium is mainly used as a dietary fiber, which is not absorbed by the small intestine. The purely mechanical action of psyllium mucilage absorbs excess water while stimulating normal bowel elimination.
Psyllium is a form of fiber made from the Plantago ovata plant, specifically from the husks of the plant’s seed. It sometimes goes by the name ispaghula. It’s most commonly known as a laxative. Psyllium provides more benefits to your body than decreasing the amount of time you spend in the bathroom. Psyllium is a bulk-forming laxative, which means it soaks up water in your gut and makes bowel movements much easier. While it helps promote regularity, it doesn’t promote flatulence, which is good for everyone within smelling distance.
The genus Plantago contains over 200 species. P. ovata and P. psyllium are produced commercially in several European countries, the former Soviet Union and India. Plantago seed, known commercially as black, French, or Spanish psyllium, is obtained from P. psyllium L., also known as P. arenaria. Psyllium is mainly used as a dietary fiber, which is not absorbed by the small intestine. The purely mechanical action of psyllium mucilage absorbs excess water while stimulating normal bowel elimination.
The Psyllium Fiber is the outer covering of the seeds of the plant Plantago ovata, as seen on the right. It is one of the 200 species of the Plantago plant. The common name in India where it is native, is Isabgol and Ispaghula. Psyllium is a soluble fiber which easily absorbs water to form a slippery gel-like bulk. 
Overview. Psyllium is a soluble fiber used primarily as a gentle bulk-forming laxative in products such as Metamucil. It comes from a shrub-like herb called Plantago ovata that grows worldwide but is most common in India. Each plant can produce up to 15,000 tiny, gel-coated seeds, from which psyllium husk is derived. If you are not used to taking psyllium, it is best to begin with a low dose (such as 1/2 tsp. in an 8 oz. glass of water once a day), then increase to 2 tsp. in 2, 8 oz. glasses of water per day, as needed. Your health care provider may recommend higher doses of psyllium to treat certain conditions.
Metamucil is a bulk-forming fiber that is used to treat constipation and may also reduce cholesterol when taken every day. The generic name for this fiber is psyllium. The fiber absorbs liquid in the intestines and swells and forms a bulky stool, which is easy to pass. The active ingredients are the seed husks of the psyllium plant. The Metamucil brand has been in existence since 1934. 
Psyllium seed husks, also known as ispaghula, isabgol, or psyllium, are portions of the seeds of the plant Plantago ovata, (genus Plantago), a native of India, Bangladesh and Pakistan. They are hygroscopic, which allows them to expand and become mucilaginous. Psyllium seed husk are indigestible and are a source of soluble dietary fiber. They are used to relieve constipation, irritable bowel syndrome, and diarrhea. They are also used as a regular dietary supplement to improve and maintain regular GI transit.
You can increase your psyllium intake by consuming psyllium-enriched cereal. The Plantago ovata plant is a shrub-like herb that is native to India. Each plant produces thousands of tiny seeds covered with a fiber-rich husk. These husks are the source of psyllium, a soluble fiber harvested from the husks that is the main ingredient in several commercial, bulk-forming laxatives.
Psyllium fiber comes from the outer coating, or husk of the psyllium plant's seeds. It is not wheat, and is therefore gluten free. The psyllium husk is a natural source of soluble fiber, similar to fiber found in grains such as oats and barley. *The amount of soluble fiber in psyllium is nearly 5X higher than that of oat bran. 100 grams of psyllium = 50 grams of soluble fiber. 100 grams of oat bran = 5 grams of soluble fiber. A bulk forming laxative, psyllium fiber is frequently used to treat constipation. It absorbs liquid in the intestines, swells and forms a bulky stool, which is easy to pass