Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: municipal (Noun). A financial instrument issued by a municipality. municipal (Adjective). Of or pertaining to a municipality (a city or a corporation having the right of administering local government). municipal (Adjective). Of or pertaining to the internal affairs of a nation. Origin: From municipal, from municipalis, from municeps, from munus + capere. Princeton's WordNet (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: municipal (adj). relating or belonging to or characteristic of a municipality. municipal government; municipal bonds; a municipal park; municipal transportation.
Full Definition of MUNICIPAL. 1. : of or relating to the internal affairs of a major political unit (as a nation). 2. a: of, relating to, or characteristic of a municipality b: having local self-government. 3. : restricted to one locality. See municipal defined for English-language learners. 
A municipality is usually an urban administrative division having corporate status and usually powers of self-government or jurisdiction. The term municipality is also used to mean the governing body of a municipality. A municipality is a general-purpose administrative subdivision, as opposed to a special-purpose district. The term is derived from French municipalite municipalité And latin. municipalis Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: municipality (Noun). A district with a government that typically encloses no other governed districts; a borough, city, or incorporated town or village.
Save. Michael Guttman/iStock/Getty Images. The term municipal relates to a city or town, and the community itself may be called the municipality. Most often, however, people use the word in connection to government. Functions of Local Government. The municipal or city government helps keep the city running smoothly. Elected officials such as the mayor, council and city attorney are part of the municipal government, but so are other jobs like firefighters, police officers and town clerks.
A municipality can be any political jurisdiction from a sovereign state, such as the Principality of Monaco, or a small village, such as West Hampton Dunes, New York. 1 In the People's Republic of China, a direct-controlled municipality (直辖市 in pinyin: zhixiashi) zhíxiáshì is a city with equal status to a: Province, Beijing, Tianjin, shanghai And (chongqing See municipality Of).  china
A municipality is usually an urban administrative division having corporate status and usually powers of self-government or jurisdiction. The term municipality is also used to mean the governing, ruling body of a municipality. A municipality is a general-purpose administrative subdivision, as opposed to a special-purpose district. 1 In the People's Republic of China, a direct-controlled municipality (直辖市 in pinyin: zhixiashi) zhíxiáshì is a city with equal status to a: Province, Beijing, Tianjin, shanghai And (chongqing See municipality Of).  china
1 In the United States, municipality is usually understood as a city, town, village, or other local government unit, formed by municipal charter from the state as a municipal corporation. 1 In the People's Republic of China, a direct-controlled municipality (直辖市 in pinyin: zhixiashi) zhíxiáshì is a city with equal status to a: Province, Beijing, Tianjin, shanghai And (chongqing See municipality Of).  china
The noun MUNICIPALITY has 2 senses: 1. an urban district having corporate status and powers of self-government. 2. people living in a town or city having local self-government. Familiarity information: MUNICIPALITY used as a noun is rare. Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of municipality): city; metropolis; urban center (a large and densely populated urban area; may include several independent administrative districts). town (an urban area with a fixed boundary that is smaller than a city).
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The term municipality refers to a city or town that has a governing body. It is a locality that has a corporate structure. 