In the oceans, the K–Pg extinction killed off plesiosaurs and the giant marine lizards (Mosasauridae) and devastated fish, sharks, mollusks (especially ammonites, which went extinct) and many species of plankton. It is estimated that 75% or more of all species on Earth vanished. Most paleontologists now agree that an asteroid did hit the Earth at approximately the end of the Cretaceous, but there is an ongoing dispute whether the impact was the sole cause of the extinctions. There is evidence that there was an interval of about 7012946728000000000♠300 ka from the impact to the mass extinction.
About 65.5 million years ago. The Cretaceous and Tertiary are geological time periods either side of this event. The event is significant because there was a large mass extinction event at this time including the extinction of all non avian dinosaurs. Most experts agree that the cause of the extinction was a asteroid impact. This boundary, called the K-T, or Cretaceous(K)-Tertiary(T) boundary, is around 65 million years ago and marks the point which dinosaurs are no longer found in the rock record … .
Big Five mass extinction events. Although the Cretaceous-Tertiary (or K-T) extinction event is the most well-known because it wiped out the dinosaurs, a series of other mass extinction events has occurred throughout the history of the Earth, some even more devastating than K-T. Triassic-Jurassic mass extinction During the final 18 million years of the Triassic period, there were two or three phases of extinction whose combined effects created the Triassic-Jurassic mass extinction event. Climate change, flood basalt eruptions and an asteroid impact have all been blamed for this loss of life.
The Cretaceous also saw the first radiation of the diatoms in the oceans (freshwater diatoms did not appear until the Miocene). The Cretaceous-Tertiary extinction. The most famous of all mass extinctions marks the end of the Cretaceous Period, about 65 million years ago. As everyone knows, this was the great extinction in which the dinosaurs died out, except for the birds, of course. 
The Permian-Triassic Extinction is considered the largest  extinction event in the history of life on planet Earth. This  extinction event, which occurred approximately 252 … million years  ago, led to the extinction of up to 96% of all marine life and 70%  of all other life, including insects. The mass extinction of the dinosaurs occured at the end of the Cretaceous Period. There are many theories as to why this happened. Some say a volcanic eruption caused it or a … falling meteorite.
3. Permian–Triassic extinction event (End Permian): This one occurred right about 251 million years ago. It is the largest extinction event that is currently known. It led to the extinction of “57% of all families, 83% of all genera and 90% to 96% of all species. Ordovician–Silurian extinction event (End Ordovician): It occurred about 450–440 million years ago. It actually consisted of two different events, in total they annihilated 27% of all families, 57% of all genera and 60% to 70% of all known species.
If the Cretaceous mass extinction had not occurred, reptiles would  today be the largest land animal in the world. At the time,  reptiles were the largest animal group on Ea … rth. This boundary, called the K-T, or Cretaceous(K)-Tertiary(T) boundary, is around 65 million years ago and marks the point which dinosaurs are no longer found in the rock record … .
The Cretaceous–Tertiary extinction event 65 million years ago was the last mass-extinction, and many believe that humans are causing a mass-extinction right now. The mass extinction of the dinosaurs occured at the end of the Cretaceous Period. There are many theories as to why this happened. Some say a volcanic eruption caused it or a … falling meteorite.
But the rate of extinction is far from constant. At least a handful of times in the last 500 million years, 50 to more than 90 percent of all species on Earth have disappeared in a geological blink of the eye. Though these mass extinctions are deadly events, they open up the planet for new life-forms to emerge. Dinosaurs appeared after one of the biggest mass extinction events on Earth, the Permian-Triassic extinction about 250 million years ago. 
How the mammals survived the extinction event 65 million years ago is still a hotly debated subject in science. The most commonly held theory is that mammals were small and … adaptable. Larger animals find it much harder to adapt when faced with a crisis such as the one that saw the end of the dinosaurs. This boundary, called the K-T, or Cretaceous(K)-Tertiary(T) boundary, is around 65 million years ago and marks the point which dinosaurs are no longer found in the rock record … .