The most common signs and symptoms of a herniated disk are: 1  Arm or leg pain. 2  If your herniated disk is in your lower back, you'll typically feel the most intense pain in your buttocks, thigh and calf. 3  It may also involve part of the foot. 1 Arm or leg pain. 2  If your herniated disk is in your lower back, you'll typically feel the most intense pain in your buttocks, thigh and calf. 3  It may also involve part of the foot. 4  If your herniated disk is in your neck, the pain will typically be most intense in the shoulder and arm.
Spinal disc herniation, also known as a slipped disc, is a medical condition affecting the spine in which a tear in the outer, fibrous ring of an intervertebral disc allows the soft, central portion to bulge out beyond the damaged outer rings. MRI scan of large herniation (on the right) of the disc between the L4-L5 vertebrae. MRI Scan of lumbar disc herniation between fourth and fifth lumbar vertebral bodies. A rather severe herniation of the L4-L5 disc. Example of a herniated disc at the L5-S1 in the lumbar spine.
Herniated disk. A herniated disk refers to a problem with one of the rubbery cushions (disks) between the individual bones (vertebrae) that stack up to make your spine. A spinal disk is a little like a jelly donut, with a softer center encased within a tougher exterior. A herniated disk can irritate nearby nerves and result in pain, numbness or weakness in an arm or leg. On the other hand, many people experience no symptoms from a herniated disk. Most people who have a herniated disk don't need surgery to correct the problem.
1 The most common location for a herniated disc to occur is in the disc at the level between the fourth and fifth lumbar vertebrae in the low back. 2  If the disc herniation is large enough, the disc tissue can press on the adjacent spinal nerves that exit the spine at the level of the disc herniation. 1 Abnormal rupture of the central portion of the disc is referred to as a disc herniation. 2 
The bones (vertebrae) that form the spine in your back are cushioned by round, flat discs. When these discs are healthy, they act as shock absorbers for the spine and keep the spine flexible. If they become damaged, they may bulge abnormally or break open (rupture), in what is called a herniated or slipped disc. What are the symptoms? Herniated discs in the neck (cervical spine) can cause pain, numbness, or weakness in the neck, shoulders, chest, arms, and hands. In some cases a very large herniated disc in the neck may cause weakness or unusual tingling affecting other parts of the body, including the legs.
Disc herniation can occur in any disc in the spine, but the two most common forms are lumbar disc herniation and cervical disc herniation. The former is the most common, causing lower back pain (lumbago) and often leg pain as well, in which case it is commonly referred to as sciatica. MRI scan of large herniation (on the right) of the disc between the L4-L5 vertebrae. MRI Scan of lumbar disc herniation between fourth and fifth lumbar vertebral bodies. A rather severe herniation of the L4-L5 disc. Example of a herniated disc at the L5-S1 in the lumbar spine.
You can have a herniated disc in any part of your spine. But most herniated discs affect the lower back (lumbar spine). Some happen in the neck (cervical spine) and, more rarely, in the upper back (thoracic spine). A herniated disc may be caused by: 1  Wear and tear of the disc. 
When a herniated disc occurs in the cervical region of the spine, it can cause pain to radiate down the shoulder into the arm and fingers, as well as neurological symptoms. A herniated disc is relatively rare in the thoracic region of the spine. 