Some tips for storing cooked rice: - To maximize the shelf life of cooked rice, refrigerate in covered airtight containers. - How long does cooked rice last at room temperature? Bacteria grow rapidly at temperatures between 40 °F and 140 °F; rice should be discarded if left for more than 2 hours at room temperature. The best way is to smell and look at the cooked rice; discard any rice with an off smell or appearance, do not taste the cooked rice first. How to reheat cooked rice: - On the stovetop: Add 2 tablespoons of liquid per each cup of cooked rice. Cover and heat about five minutes on top of the stove. - In the microwave: Add 2 tablespoons of liquid per each cup of cooked rice. Microwave on high power — allow about 1 minute for each cup of rice being reheated. To reheat frozen rice: microwave for 2 minutes on high power for each cup of ric
** Polished white rice, when sealed in an oxygen-free container at 40°F or below, can be stored for up to 30 years. [1] Of course, all food lasts for a shorter period of time if it is not stored properly. But remember that brown and white rice, like a lot of other grains, usually have a best by date and not an expiration date.
White rice usually takes about 15 to 20 minutes to cook. Check the rice about 4 minutes before the timer is due to go off. When you take the cover off, the top of the rice may look like it is totally cooked. 
Brown rice, because of the oil in the bran layer, has a limited shelf life of approximately 6 months. Refrigerator storage is recommended for longer shelf life. Cooked rice, when not eaten immediately, should be cooled quickly. To store cooked rice, place in a shallow container, cover, and place in refrigerator. Cooked rice may be stored in the refrigerator for up to 3 days. I also read where it can be frozen for up to 6 months. Ohioan. 08-24-2002, 10:34 AM. I'm usually kind of careless about how long I leave things in the fridge, but even I wouldn't leave cooked rice more than three days.
Storage Conditions. The best temperature to store grains, including rice, is 40°F or below; however, rice stored at a constant 70° F with oxygen absorbers will store well for up to 10 years. In cooler storage areas rice sealed in oxygen-free containers can be stored for up to 30 years. 
1 To maximize the shelf life of rice, store in a cool dry area; after opening the package, place the uncooked rice in a sealed airtight container or place original package in a resealable heavy-duty freezer bag. 
Vegkitchen.com reports that red beans will last in the refrigerator for up to a week, and in the freezer for up to 6 months. (Be careful if you have cooked with sausage … or another type of meat. This will effect the storage time based on the type of meat. Hermetically sealed in the absence of oxygen, plan on a storage life for white rice of 8-10 years at a stable temperature of 70 degrees F. It should keep proportionately longer if stored at cooler temperatures. Stored in the absence of oxygen, brown rice will last longer than if it was stored in air.
---------------------------------------- Answer: About 3-4 days. I never have any problem with storing cooked rice in the fridge, but make sure its cooled and place in an airtight container. It never goes dry, hard or loses its flavor and I've been doing this for over 20yrs. 
It is the most important staple food for a large part of the world's human population, providing more than one fifth of the calories consumed worldwide by the human species. Like pasta, rice comes in a variety of types (white, brown, wild, short grain, long grain, etc.) and is often mixed with spices. [1] Of course, all food lasts for a shorter period of time if it is not stored properly. But remember that brown and white rice, like a lot of other grains, usually have a best by date and not an expiration date.