In terms of a typical range for baby, as outlined by the AAP, anywhere between 97.5° F (36.4° C) and 99.5° F (37.5° C) is totally normal. A temperature reading of 100.4° F (38° C) is considered to be the beginning of a fever and should typically be accompanied by other symptoms. 
A normal temperature is about 98.6°F (37°C) when taken orally (in your child’s mouth) and 99.6°F (37.5°C) when taken rectally (in your child’s bottom). Many doctors define a fever as an oral temperature above 99.5°F (37.5°C) or a rectal temperature above 100.4°F (38°C). 
A baby’s temperature is no different. According to the American Academy of Pediatrics, normal body temperature for a health baby ranges between 97 degrees and 100.4 degrees Fahrenheit (36 degrees to 38 degrees Celsius). A rectal temperature reading above this range indicates a fever
Most doctors – and the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) — agree that a normal body temperature for a healthy baby is between 97 and 100.3 degrees Fahrenheit. If your baby's rectal temperature is 100.4 degrees or higher, he has a fever. Symptoms of a serious fever. A temperature reading isn't the only indication of whether a fever is serious. Age is a factor: Fever is more serious in babies under 3 months. Behavior is another factor: A high fever that doesn't stop your baby from playing and feeding normally may not be cause for alarm.
A higher-than-normal body temperature is called a fever. A fever is usually a sign that the body is waging a war against infection. Taking your baby's temperature can confirm your suspicions and help you and your child's doctor figure out the best way to get your baby back on the road to health. Symptoms of a serious fever. A temperature reading isn't the only indication of whether a fever is serious. Age is a factor: Fever is more serious in babies under 3 months. Behavior is another factor: A high fever that doesn't stop your baby from playing and feeding normally may not be cause for alarm.
If your baby is under age 3 months and has a fever, take her to a doctor. For at least the first 6 months of life, call your doctor anytime she has a fever. At your baby’s next checkup you can ask if the doctor has a “fever policy.” That will give you a better idea about when you need to call. Most doctors say a baby has a fever if her temperature rises to 100.4 F or above. It’s best to take her temperature rectally. Take a few readings when your infant is well to get a sense of what her normal temperature is.
Temperature / Fever. Normal axillary (under the arm) temperature ranges from 97.5 to 99.3 degrees Fahrenheit (36.5 to 37.4 degrees Celsius)*. Taking a rectal temperature. Normal rectal temperature is 100.2 degrees Fahrenheit or less (37.9 degrees Celsius or less)*. *These are the American Academy of Pediatrics recommended ranges. It is suggested that you discuss this with your baby's health care provider. You do not need to take your baby’s temperature on a regular basis
In infants from birth to 3 months old, an abnormal temperature--either too low or too high--can be a sign of something serious. A baby with a low body temperature may have a serious infection, according to MedlinePlus.com, and an infant with a fever requires an immediate call to the doctor. Photo Credit baby image by Dron from Fotolia.com. An infant up to 3 months old has a normal body temperature range of 97 to 100.4 degrees Fahrenheit, 36 to 38 degrees Celsius, according to the American Academy of Pediatrics. Temperatures both higher and lower than this range are a cause for concern
1 If your baby is under 3 months old and has a temperature of 100.4 degrees F (38 degrees C) or higher, call the doctor immediately. 2  A baby this young needs to be checked for serious infection or disease. 3  If your baby is 3 months old or older, the most important thing is how he looks and acts. 