The oculomotor nerve is the third cranial nerve. It enters the orbit via the superior orbital fissure and innervates muscles that enable most movements of the eye and that raise the eyelid. Since the oculomotor nerve controls most of the eye muscles, it may be easier to detect damage to it. Damage to this nerve, termed oculomotor nerve palsy is also known by the down 'n out symptoms, because of the position of the affected eye (lateral, downward deviation of gaze).
The oculomotor nerve originates from the third nerve nucleus at the level of the superior colliculus, in the midbrain. The third nerve nucleus is located lateral to the cerebral aqueduct, on the pre-aqueductal grey matter. Since the oculomotor nerve controls most of the eye muscles, it may be easier to detect damage to it. Damage to this nerve, termed oculomotor nerve palsy is also known by the down 'n out symptoms, because of the position of the affected eye (lateral, downward deviation of gaze).
Sensory from the face. Threebranches for sensory from the face: ophthalmic, maxillary and mandibular. It is the largestcranial nerve. (A)Ophthalmic branch: sensory from superior part of face: eyeball, lacrimal gland,conjunctiva, nasal mucosa, skin of scalp, forehead, upper eyelid, and nose. Its sensory function is forsensation from the pharynx, tonsil and posterior 1/3 of the tongue and for blood pressure withinthe carotid arteries via the carotid sinus. Since cranial nerves IX, X, and XI are so close together,usually damage to IX exhibits damage to X and XI.
Smell is perceived through part of the roof of the nasal cavity (olfactory cleft) that is just next to the part of the brain responsible for smell (olfactory bulb and fossa). This bony partition in this area (“cribriform” bone) is pierced by numerous nerves (“Olfactory” nerves) on each side. Nerve Supply. Sensation to the nose is provided to the nasal cavity primarily via branches of the trigeminal nerve. The ophthalmic division (V1) of the trigeminal nerve gives off the anterior and posterior ethmoidal nerves, which supply sensation to the top half of the nasal cavity and septum.
The nerve also contains fibers bringing sensation from the face to the Pons. It is the largest of the cranial nerves and forms three divisions: Opthalmic division (V1) - from skin of anterior scalp, upper eyelid, nose, nasal cavity mucosa and lacrimal gland through superior orbital fissure. Cranial Nerves. There are 12 pairs of cranial nerves and because they are nerves, they are considered to be a part of the peripheral nervous system (PNS). Conventionally, each of the 12 pairs of nerves is named using a Roman numeral (I through XII) together with the descriptive name for the nerve.
Olfactory Nerve (I). (1) Sensory nerve. (2) Transmits smell impulses from receptors in the nasal mucosa to the brain. b. Optic Nerve (II). (1) Sensory nerve. (2) Transmits visual impulses from the eye to the brain. c. Oculomotor Nerve (III). (1) Motor nerve. (3) Contracts the swallowing muscles in the pharynx and stimulates secretions of the salivary glands. (1) Mixed nerve. (2) Transmits sensory impulses from the viscera (heart, smooth muscles, abdominal organs), pharynx, and larynx
Oculomotor nerve (III). The oculomotor nerve is part of the group of cranial nerves responsible for innervating the muscles of the head. The nerves originate from the ventral midbrain and is a motor nerve. It is composed of general somatic efferent fibres and general visceral efferent fibres.
They are covered with a lining (mucosa) which is continuous with the lining of the rest of the nasal cavity. The turbinates serve to increase the mucosal surface area of the nasal cavity, and also direct smooth nasal airflow towards the lungs. Between each turbinate and nasal sidewall lies a space termed a meatus. Nerve Supply. Sensation to the nose is provided to the nasal cavity primarily via branches of the trigeminal nerve. The ophthalmic division (V1) of the trigeminal nerve gives off the anterior and posterior ethmoidal nerves, which supply sensation to the top half of the nasal cavity and septum.
I-Olfactory Nerve. is a sensory nerve (a nerve carrying sensation information to the brain) that arises in the nasal mucosa (up through the olfactory foramina of the cribriform plate) and conveys impulses for the sense of smell to the brain. Sensory. Cranial Nerves. There are 12 pairs of cranial nerves and because they are nerves, they are considered to be a part of the peripheral nervous system (PNS). Conventionally, each of the 12 pairs of nerves is named using a Roman numeral (I through XII) together with the descriptive name for the nerve.