Best Answer: How quickly flea eggs hatch depends on humidity. It can take anywhere between 2 days and 2 weeks. Frontline is a good quality effective flea treatment, available from your vets. Generally, shop bought flea treatments are next to useless and should be avoided.
Flea eggs can lay dormant for up to two years. Just ask your vet or someone at the pet store, online store, etc. about your flea problem and they will be happy to assist you. I already answered this on your earlier post. It can take anywhere between 2 days and 2 weeks. Frontline is a good quality effective flea treatment, available from your vets. Generally, shop bought flea treatments are next to useless and should be avoided.
It can take as little as a couple days or as long as a couple weeks for flea eggs to hatch. Upon reaching adulthood, fleas may live a few more weeks, or up to a year or longer depending on numerous external factors. 
Cat flea eggs are oval-shaped and only about 1/50 inch in diameter. Larvae that hatch from the flea eggs are about 1/20 to 1/5 inch long and look like a very small grub. The pupal stage has a silken cocoon that is prepared by the larvae and looks like it has a sticky outer surface of dirt and debris attached to the pupal covering. 
6 weeks. In 3 weeks, one flea can pass through its entire life cycle and can lay 1000 eggs. In another 3 weeks, those eggs can hatch and lay 1,000 eggs each, so within 6 weeks, it is possible to have a million new fleas. If the temperature is 95°F and there is 70% humidity, half of all flea eggs hatch within 36 hours. If it is only 55°F, half of all flea eggs will hatch within 6 days.
The female lays eggs 24-36 hours after her first blood meal. Fleas lay up to 50 eggs a day, which is equal to their body weight. They can lay this many eggs because they suck up 15 times their body weight in blood daily. This blood lust can continue for 3 months. If the temperature is 95°F and there is 70% humidity, half of all flea eggs hatch within 36 hours. If it is only 55°F, half of all flea eggs will hatch within 6 days.
Fleas reproduce much like butterflies do. Females lay eggs, which hatch into worm-like larvae. The larvae spin cocoons and become pupae. An adult flea emerges from the cocoon. In a population of fleas, about half are eggs, and about five percent are adults. Female fleas can lay eggs only if they've had a meal.
In appearance, flea larvae can be up to ¼-inch long and are white (almost see-through) and legless. Larvae make up about 35 percent of the flea population in the average household. If conditions are favorable, the larvae will spin cocoons in about 5-20 days of hatching from their eggs. This leads to the next life stage, called the cocoon or pupae stage. The pupae stage of the flea life cycle accounts for about 10 percent of the flea population in a home.
After about 2 days (range 2-21 days), depending on environmental conditions, the flea egg hatches torelease a first stage flea larva. This flea larva lives in the host's environment(it is part of the environmental stage of the fleas life cycle), where it feeds on fleadroppings (flea dirt) and dander. 
In order to develop, flea eggs need a warm, moist environment: a temperature of about 70 degrees Fahrenheit (21 degrees Celsius) and 70 to 85 percent humidity. In these conditions, the eggs hatch in about 12 days. Females lay eggs, which hatch into worm-like larvae. The larvae spin cocoons and become pupae. An adult flea emerges from the cocoon. In a population of fleas, about half are eggs, and about five percent are adults. Female fleas can lay eggs only if they've had a meal.