XARELTO. 20 mg. 28 tablets. Xarelto is used to prevent the formation of clots in the veins you after surgery for total. arthritic hip or knee you going. Your doctor has prescribed this. medicine, because after surgery have an increased risk of clots. Xarelto belongs to a group of medicines called antiplatelet agents.
Xarelto is the brand name for the prescription medication rivaroxaban, a blood thinner, or anticoagulant, that prevents blood clots from forming. Xarelto is in a class of medications called factor Xa inhibitors, which means they affect the action of an enzyme, Factor X, that is involved in blood clotting.
MEDICATION GUIDE XARELTO ® (zah-REL-toe) (rivaroxaban) tablets Read this Medication Guide before you start taking XARELTO and each time you get a refill. There may be new information. This Medication Guide does not take the place of talking with your doctor about your medical condition or your treatment.
Xarelto is a prescription medication used to prevent certain types of blood clots and strokes. Xarelto can be used in people who are having hip or knee replacement surgery, and for people with an irregular heart rhythm. Xarelto, a blood thinner, belongs to a group of drugs called factor Xa inhibitors.
28 tablets. XARELTO WHAT IS AND WHAT IT IS USED. Xarelto is used to prevent the formation of clots in the veins you after surgery for total. arthritic hip or knee you going. Your doctor has prescribed this. medicine, because after surgery have an increased risk of clots.
XARELTO ® is a prescription medicine used to reduce the risk of stroke and blood clots in people with atrial fibrillation, not caused by a heart valve problem.
1 Xarelto 15 mg film-coated tablets are red, round, film-coated tablets marked with the BAYER-cross on one side and “15” and a triangle on the other side. 2  It is packed in blister packs in cartons of 7, 28, 42, 84, 98 and 100 tablets.
Xarelto. RIVAROXABAN is an anticoagulant (blood thinner). It is used to treat blood clots in the lungs or in the veins. It is also used after knee or hip surgeries to prevent blood clots. It is also used to lower the chance of stroke in people with a medical condition called atrial fibrillation.
Back to Top. Xarelto is a prescription medicine used in adults to: 1  reduce the risk of stroke and blood clots in people who have a medical condition called atrial fibrillation. 2  With atrial fibrillation, part of the heart does not beat the way it should.
How to use Xarelto. Read the Medication Guide provided by your pharmacist before you start taking rivaroxaban and each time you get a refill. If you have any questions, ask your doctor or pharmacist. Take this medication by mouth as directed by your doctor.