They need a circuit to move. When a source of energy, like a battery, is connected to a light bulb the electrons can move from the battery to the light bulb and back again. We call this an electric circuit. Sometimes there are many circuits in an electrical device that make it work.
• As you do your work (W = δE), you are giving back electric potential energy to the ball, until at the top it is back to having maximum electric potential energy. • This change in electric potential energy depends on...1. Charge of the object (E p α q)2. Electric field strength (E p α E)3.
(2) Thermal energy can be transfered to other objects causing them to heat up. When you heat up a pan of water, the heat from the stove causes the molecules in the pan to vibrate faster causing the pan to heat up. The heat from the pan causes water molecules to move faster and heat up. So, when you heat something up, you are just making its molecules move faster. (3) Electrical energy is converted into thermal energy when you use objects such as heating pads, electrical stove elements, toasters, hair dryers, or light bulbs. A thermal infrared image of a hair dryer and a flourescent light bulb.
Moving is usually called kinetic energy. All of these forms of energy can be produced using electricity, which is another form of energy. There are other forms of energy, for example, the food that we eat is chemical energy. It is possible to change one form of energy into another.
Electrical energy is a type of potential energy, or energy stored in an object due to the position of the object. In the case of electrical energy, the object is the charged particle, and the position is within the electric field. Another way of looking at electrical energy is electrical potential, which is measured in volts. Electrical energy is used to move charges through wires to create current, or electricity.
Electrical Energy is Potential Energy. Electrical energy is potential energy, which is energy stored in an object due to the object's position. Well, in terms of electrical energy, the object is the charged particle, and the position is the location of that charged particle within the electric field. The charged particle will have the potential to move, or do work, due to the force of