(S)-(+)-linalool, from coriander oil and sweet orange (Citrus sinensis) has a smell described as sweet lavender with a touch of citrus; it is also found in tomato. (R)-(-)-linalool, found in the oils of rose, neroli and lavender, laurel and sweet basil (Ocimum basilicum) has a more woody lavender smell. Mediterranean basil is used to make Pesto sauce alla Genovese with added ingredients like cheese, olive oil and walnuts. Lavender has a pleasing smell, thanks to the molecules it contains, like linalool. It is relatively easy to grow (think of the lavender fields of Provence, and also of Heacham in Norfolk, England) so lavender oil is much cheaper than rose oil or jasmine.
Linalool of this type is generally very useful as a scent agent in different products. Coriandrol – This form of Linalool is commonly found in plants. It is commonly found in Coriander seeds, which are used to produce essential oils. Palmarosa and sweet orange flowers are also common sources. Humans respond to both enantiomers’ different scents.
Vitamin E is a common byproduct of Linalool production. Vitamin E is a fat soluble vitamin that the body uses in different ways. It can be used to reduce the visual effects of aging by moisturizing the cells and reducing the effect of free radicals. It can also help scars and other forms of dermal layer damage heal. Coriandrol – This form of Linalool is commonly found in plants. It is commonly found in Coriander seeds, which are used to produce essential oils. Palmarosa and sweet orange flowers are also common sources. Humans respond to both enantiomers’ different scents.
Recently I’ve come across something which sounds innocent enough; Linalool. Linalool is a very fragrant component of various herbs such as lavender, mint and coriander that can be a potent skin irritant, causing contact dermatitits in some sensitive individuals. It also appears to become an allergen or sensitiser once it becomes exposed to oxygen in the air. 
Linalool functions as a fragrance ingredient. Scientific Facts: Linalool is a naturally occurring fragrance substance produced by a wide variety of plants such as mint, cinnamon, citrus fruits, and birch trees. Linalool can also be produced synthetically. In cosmetics and personal care products, Linalool is used in the formulation of aftershave lotions, bath products, bubble baths, cleansing products, hair care products, lipsticks, moisturizers, perfumes and colognes, shampoos, skin care products and suntan products.
Linalool Uses. Linalool is used in various ways. Hygienic products often have Linalool in them as a scent agent. Linalool is commonly used as a perfume in a variety of soaps, detergents, shampoos, lotions, sanitary pads, etc. that have a minty or sweet floral scent in them. Coriandrol – This form of Linalool is commonly found in plants. It is commonly found in Coriander seeds, which are used to produce essential oils. Palmarosa and sweet orange flowers are also common sources. Humans respond to both enantiomers’ different scents.
Linalool /lɪˈnaelɵ.lɪˈnælɵ/ ɒl is a naturally occurring terpene alcohol chemical found in many flowers and spice plants with many commercial, applications the majority of which are based on its pleasant (scent, floral with a touch of). spiciness Linalool is used as a scent in 60–80% of perfumed hygiene products and cleaning agents including soaps, detergents, shampoos, and lotions. It is also used as a chemical intermediate.
Definition of LINALOOL. : a fragrant liquid alcohol C10H18O that occurs both free and in the form of esters in many essential oils and is used in perfumes, soaps, and flavoring materials. ADVERTISEMENT.
Clarkia breweri. Linalool is produced by many plants, for example (S)-linalool is an important ingredient of the sweet scent emitted by flowers of Clarkia breweri (found only in California) to attract the moths that pollinate it. Lavender has a pleasing smell, thanks to the molecules it contains, like linalool. It is relatively easy to grow (think of the lavender fields of Provence, and also of Heacham in Norfolk, England) so lavender oil is much cheaper than rose oil or jasmine.
Linalool is a component of many essential oils, including orange, lavender, rose, rosewood, and coriander. The main problem the Cosmetics Database has with linalool is the risk of skin irritation and allergic reactions. Just like limonene, linalool is not a skin allergen in its pure form. However, when it's oxidized, it can cause allergic reactions/sensitivity at high concentrations. (Source). Also, like limonene, pure linalool has anti-cancer effects.