At optimal conditions, the growing eggplant seeds should germinate within 7 days. Two weeks after germination, fertilize the seedlings once a week with a soluble fertilizer – 1 tablespoon of fertilizer to one gallon of water. Eggplant seedlings will be ready to transplant in 6-8 weeks.
When growing eggplant, you want to remember that planting eggplant from seed should be done indoors or in a greenhouse setting. This protects the new little seedlings from any sort of frost. When planting eggplant, if you plant them too early, you will risk hurting the plant.
You may need to transplant your eggplant seedlings into larger containers before it's time to move them outside. Simply place them into pots that are an inch or two larger than the ones they're growing in. You can use potting soil, or the same mix you used when you started the seeds.
Sow eggplant seeds in cell packs or small pots, 1/4 inch deep. Water them well, cover loosely with a plastic bag or a plastic seedling flat cover to retain moisture, and place them in a warm spot -- on top of the refrigerator or on seedling heat mats would be perfect. Keep the soil moist.
There is no particular eggplant seed preparation necessary prior to sowing. Eggplant seeds germinate at temps between 60-95 degrees F. (15-35 C) and seedlings will emerge in 7-10 days. When growing with eggplant seeds instead of nursery starts, the seeds will remain viable for about four years.
Transplant Eggplant Seedlings. When eggplant seedlings are ready to be transplanted in the garden very carefully remove a seedling from its cell and place it in a hole at the same depth it was in the tray. Space the plants 18 apart in rows 24 apart. Water well. View original photo.
Eggplants need lots of space. When planting eggplant, put them about 18 inches apart in the row, and the rows need to be about 30 inches apart if not more. This is quite a large area. You will want to fertilize your eggplants after you transplant the seedlings. Also, mid-season, when growing eggplants, side-dress plants with nitrogen.
The seeds will germinate without additional heat, but it will take longer. Generally, eggplant seeds germinate in 7 to 14 days. Once they've germinated, remove the plastic cover and place your pot or flat under lights or in a bright window.