Introduction. Transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) is a method of pain relief that can help some people with long-term painful conditions. A TENS machine is a small, battery-operated device that has leads connected to electrodes. You attach the electrodes to your skin using self-adhesive pads. 
Transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) is a therapy that uses low-voltage electrical current for pain relief. You do TENS with a small, battery-powered machine about the size of a pocket radio. Usually, you connect two electrodes (wires that conduct electrical current) from the machine to your skin. The electrodes are often placed on the area of pain or at a pressure point, creating a circuit of electrical impulses that travels along nerve fibers
Transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) is the use of electric current produced by a device to stimulate the nerves for therapeutic purposes. TENS, by definition, covers the complete range of transcutaneously applied currents used for nerve excitation although the term is often used with a more restrictive intent, namely to describe the kind of pulses produced by portable stimulators used to treat pain.
M. I. Johnson Transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) is a simple, non-invasive analgesic technique which is used to manage postoperative pain, labour pain and chronic pain. There is widespread use of TENS within health care and patients report satisfaction with the modality. 
TENS stands for (Transcutaneous Electrical Nerve Stimulation). which are predominately used for nerve related pain conditions (acute and chronic conditions). TENS machines works by sending stimulating pulses across the surface of the skin and along the nerve strands. 
A transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation unit sends electrical pulses through the skin. These pulses control pain signals in the body, creating temporary or permanent relief from pain. They can control abnormally excited nerves and release endorphins. Transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation may result in instant or prolonged pain relief. Through the release of endorphins and the control of nerves, TENS sends relief directly to the site of pain. Some patients experience permanent pain relief after repeated sessions with a TENS unit.
A transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation unit is an electrical device that sends low-voltage currents into the body. Electrode pads are placed over specific nerves on the body to conduct the currents from the unit to the nerves. Transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation may result in instant or prolonged pain relief. Through the release of endorphins and the control of nerves, TENS sends relief directly to the site of pain. Some patients experience permanent pain relief after repeated sessions with a TENS unit.
For some people, a transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) machine is used as an alternative to painkilling medication. A TENS machine is a small portable, battery-operated device which is worn on the body. The box is attached by wires to sticky pads stuck to the skin. 1 Khadilkar A, Odebiyi DO, Brosseau L, et al; Transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) versus placebo for chronic low-back pain. 2  Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2008 Oct 8;(4):CD003008. 3  Walsh DM, Howe TE, Johnson MI, et al; Transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation for acute pain.
A transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) unit is a device that sends small electrical currents to targeted body parts. These currents are used to relieve pain. Some TENS units are designed for use in a hospital or healthcare facility. Transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation may result in instant or prolonged pain relief. Through the release of endorphins and the control of nerves, TENS sends relief directly to the site of pain. Some patients experience permanent pain relief after repeated sessions with a TENS unit.