In the Texas case, the teachers are part of a state retirement system that is not part of Social Security. Before 1983, any state or local government could decide if their retirement system would be part of Social Security or not. Texas chose not to have their teachers retirement system be part of Social Security. In 2002, according to the US government's General Accounting Office (GAO), 3,521 Texas teachers spent their last day before retirement employed as a janitor instead of as a teacher. In Texas, most teachers are in a retirement system that is not part of Social Security, while most janitors do pay Social Security taxes.
Retiring in Texas. When you begin work as public school teacher in Texas, you are automatically enrolled in a retirement plan through the Teacher Retirement System of Texas (TRS). It is the largest public retirement system in Texas, serving more than 1.3 million participants. As a teacher in the state of Texas, you qualify for an all-inclusive benefits package that includes both retirement and health insurance planning, allowing you to make these preparations confidently. Learn more about becoming a teacher. Contact schools offering teacher education/certification programs in Texas.
2.3%. For example, if your average final salary was $45,000 and you worked for 25 years, your final pension would be $25,875 per year, or $2,156.25 per month. To learn more about the retirement options available to you as a teacher in Texas, visit the Teacher Retirement System of Texas. As a teacher in the state of Texas, you qualify for an all-inclusive benefits package that includes both retirement and health insurance planning, allowing you to make these preparations confidently. Learn more about becoming a teacher. Contact schools offering teacher education/certification programs in Texas.
TRS is the largest public retirement system in Texas in both membership and assets and the sixth largest public pension fund in the U.S. The agency is headquartered at 1000 Red River Street in the capital city of Austin. Governor James V. Allred signed the bill into law on June 9, 1937 and the Teacher Retirement System of Texas was in effect as of July 1, 1937. The system is established and operates under Section 67, Article XVI of the Texas Constitution.
Planning Ahead. The Classroom Teacher, spring 2014. Even though your salary as a teacher is likely modest, you probably feel secure knowing you have the stability of the Texas Teacher Retirement System to support you when you retire. But the decisions you make now and at retirement will be important determining factors in your financial security
The effort to establish the Teacher Retirement System of Texas was a 20-year process which began in 1916, with leadership provided by the Texas State Teachers Association (TSTA). Governor James V. Allred signed the bill into law on June 9, 1937 and the Teacher Retirement System of Texas was in effect as of July 1, 1937. The system is established and operates under Section 67, Article XVI of the Texas Constitution.
Published: Updated: AUSTIN — Younger teachers would not be able to retire with full benefits until age 62 and all school employees in the Teacher Retirement System of Texas would have to make larger monthly contributions under legislation the Senate passed Wednesday. 
Established in 1937, TRS provides retirement and related benefits for those employed by the public schools, colleges, and universities supported by the State of Texas and manages a $132 billion trust fund established to finance member benefits. Governor James V. Allred signed the bill into law on June 9, 1937 and the Teacher Retirement System of Texas was in effect as of July 1, 1937. The system is established and operates under Section 67, Article XVI of the Texas Constitution.
The Teacher Retirement System of Texas (TRS) administers a defined benefit retirement plan for eligible Texas public education employees, such as those who work for a school district or higher education institution. Upon retirement, you may transfer creditable service between ERS and TRS. 
1 Employee: a contributing member of the Teacher Retirement System of Texas who is employed by a Public School and is not entitled to coverage in a group insurance program under the Texas Employees Group Benefits Act or the State University Employees Uniform Insurance Benefit Act. Governor James V. Allred signed the bill into law on June 9, 1937 and the Teacher Retirement System of Texas was in effect as of July 1, 1937. The system is established and operates under Section 67, Article XVI of the Texas Constitution.