Fortunately, Virgo’s first-magnitude star, sparkling blue-white Spica, makes this constellation fairly easy to locate in the night sky. If you live in the Northern Hemisphere, and are familiar with the Big Dipper asterism, you can star-hop to this gem of a star from the handle of the Big Dipper. Keep in mind that astrologers are referring to the sign – not the constellation – Virgo. Yes, there is a difference between a constellation and a sign! A constellation of the Zodiac refers to certain section of the starry sky.
Spica. Spica or Alpha Virginis (Alp Vir) is the brightest naked eye star in the constellation Virgo. With an apparent magnitude of 0.98v, Spica is the 15th brightest star in the entire sky (see: 50 Brightest Stars). Its absolute magnitude is -3.55 and its distance is 262 light years. The Equinox J2000 equatorial coordinates are RA = 13h 25m 11.6s, Dec = -11° 09' 41
Magnitude is a measured value, as of size, brightness, or energy. Mathematics Magnitude is the size (length) of a vector, or a general numerical size. Seismic Events Magnitu … de is the measure of the energy released by an earthquake; determined at the epicenter, and based on the height of the lines of a seismograph. This is a general idea of the intensity of an earthquake
Spica, also known as Alpha Virginis, is the brightest star in the constellation. Spica ranks as the 16th brightest star in the night sky and can be regarded as a nearly perfect example of a star of the first magnitude. It is a blue giant about 260 light-years from Earth. Virgo is a congested constellation with 26 known exoplanets — planets outside of the solar system — orbiting around 20 stars, and at least a dozen Messier objects.
Virgo. Virgo is a constellation in the southern hemisphere. It was one of the constellations listed by the Greek astronomer Ptolemy in the 2nd century. The name means virgin or young maiden in Latin. Virgo is one of the constellations of the zodiac, which lie on the Sun's apparent path in the sky
Virgo is one of the thirteen constellations of the zodiac, lying between Leo to the west and Libra to the east. It is the second largest constellation in the sky and can be easily located via its brightest star, Spica. 
Virgo is one of the constellations of the zodiac. Its name is Latin for virgin, and its symbol is ♍. Lying between Leo to the west and Libra to the east, it is the second largest constellation in the sky (after Hydra). It can be easily found through its brightest star, Spica. At the diameter of 5.5 million light years, or more than 50 times the size of the Milky Way, it was the largest known galaxy in the universe. Virgo is also home to the quasar 3C 273 which was the first quasar ever to be identified. With a magnitude of ~12.9 it is also the optically brightest quasar in the sky.
It contains Spica, one of the brightest stars in the night sky. It also contains one of the two points in the sky (the other being in the constellation Pisces) where the celestial equator intersects with the ecliptic. Virgo is also currently home to the autumn equinox point, which lies close to the star Beta Virginis. Messier 49 is the brightest galaxy in the Virgo Cluster and the first galaxy to be discovered in the cluster. It is an elliptical galaxy with a visual magnitude of 9.4, about 55.9 million light years distant. It was discovered by Charles Messier in February 1771.