1 Modified plants or animals may have genetic changes that are unexpected and harmful. 2  Modified organisms may interbreed with natural organisms. 3  This could lead to the extinction of the original organism or to other unpredictable environmental effects. Genetically engineered foods have had foreign genes (genes from other plants or animals) inserted into their genetic codes. Genetic engineering can be done with plants, animals, or bacteria and other microorganisms.
Genetically modified organism. Definition. noun. An organism whose genetic material has been modified or altered, especially through genetic engineering techniques. Supplement. Nowadays, the genomes of various organisms, from single celled microbes to multicellular plants and animals, can be purposely transformed using recombinant DNA technology
Definition. Genetically engineered foods have had foreign genes (genes from other plants or animals) inserted into their genetic codes. Genetic engineering can be done with plants, animals, or bacteria and other microorganisms. We have bred plants and animals for thousands of years to produce the desired traits
A genetically modified organism (GMO), also known as a transgenic organism, is any organism whose genetic material has been altered using genetic engineering techniques (i.e. genetically engineered organism). Cisgenesis, sometimes also called intragenesis, is a product designation for a category of genetically engineered plants. A variety of classification schemes have been proposed that order genetically modified organisms based on the nature of introduced genotypical changes rather than the process of genetic engineering.
Genetically modified crops (GM crops, or biotech crops) are plants used in agriculture, the DNA of which has been modified using genetic engineering techniques. In most cases the aim is to introduce a new trait to the plant which does not occur naturally in the species. Cisgenesis, sometimes also called intragenesis, is a product designation for a category of genetically engineered plants. A variety of classification schemes have been proposed that order genetically modified organisms based on the nature of introduced genotypical changes rather than the process of genetic engineering.
It includes biographies of key scientists, and feature articles on important topics, such as bioinformatics, genetically modified organisms, microarray technology, and RNA interference. The dictionary’s chronologies chart developments in major fields including cell biology, genetics, microscopy, and vitamins. 
GMO. Definition. noun. An abbreviation for genetically modified organism, an organism whose genetic material has been modified, especially by genetic engineering. Nowadays, the genomes of various organisms, from single celled microbes to multicellular plants and animals, can be purposely transformed using recombinant DNA technology. GMOs are used mainly in the production of pharmaceuticals, gene therapy, and agriculture.
ge·net·i·cal·ly modified organism. n. Abbr. GMO. An organism whose genetic characteristics have been altered by the insertion of a modified gene or a gene from another organism using the techniques of genetic engineering. 1  Facebook. 2  Twitter. 