The eruption of Mayon in 1814 was the most destructive historical eruption at the volcano. The six hour eruption killed 1200 people. Fatalities were caused by pyroclastic density currents, port eruption lahars, and fires set alight by hot tephra. Mayon eruptions produce lava flows, pyroclastic flows and mud flows which threaten populations at the base of the volcano. A 6 km radius permanent danger zone is in place around the volcano. This is due to the possibility of sudden phreatic eruptions and rockfalls from the upper and middle slopes
Mayon is the most active volcano in the Philippines having erupted over 49 times in the past 400 years. The first record of a major eruption was witnessed in February 1616 by Dutch explorer Joris van Spilbergen who recorded it on his log in his circumnavigation trip around the world. Like other volcanoes located around the Pacific Ocean, Mayon is a part of the Pacific Ring of Fire. It is located on the eastern side of Luzon, near the Philippine Trench which is the convergent boundary where the Philippine Sea Plate is driven under the Philippine Mobile Belt.
Several types of volcanic eruptions —during which lava, tephra (ash, lapilli, volcanic bombs and blocks), and assorted gases are expelled from a volcanic vent or fissure —have been distinguished by volcanologists. These are often named after famous volcanoes where that type of behavior has been observed. 
Mayon is a classic stratovolcano (composite) type of volcano with a small central summit crater. The cone is considered the world's most perfectly formed volcano for its symmetry, which was formed through layers of pyroclastic surges and lava flows from past eruptions and erosion. Like other volcanoes located around the Pacific Ocean, Mayon is a part of the Pacific Ring of Fire. It is located on the eastern side of Luzon, near the Philippine Trench which is the convergent boundary where the Philippine Sea Plate is driven under the Philippine Mobile Belt.
Mayon's most violent eruption, in 1814, killed more than 1200 people and devastated several towns. (Description courtesy SI/USGS Global Volcanism Program). Mayon volcano, in SE Luzon, is the most active volcano in the Philippines. Its classic, symmetrical profile, which rises above the Albay Gulf to a height of 2462 m, is the result of a structurally simple volcano where eruptions have occurred from a single central conduit. The initial eruption lasted only 30 minutes but it generated pyroclastic flows that killed 68 people and prompted the evacuation of 60,000 others. This photo shows pyroclastic flows descending Mayon on March 2, 1993. Photograph credit: Steve O'Meara of Volcano Watch International.
Mayon volcano, in SE Luzon, is the most active volcano in the Philippines. Its classic, symmetrical profile, which rises above the Albay Gulf to a height of 2462 m, is the result of a structurally simple volcano where eruptions have occurred from a single central conduit. An ash-rich eruption column rises above the summit of Mayon volcano on September 13, 1984. The ash column, seen here from Santa Misericordia on the east flank, reached a height of 12.5 km. This marked the peak of the first phase of the 1984 eruption, which began on September 9.
The most destructive eruption of Mayon occurred on February 1, 1814 (VEI =4). Lava flowed but not as much compared to the 1766 eruption; Instead, the volcano was belching dark ash and eventually bombarded the town of Cagsawa with tephra that buried it. Trees were burned; rivers were certainly damaged. Like other volcanoes located around the Pacific Ocean, Mayon is a part of the Pacific Ring of Fire. It is located on the eastern side of Luzon, near the Philippine Trench which is the convergent boundary where the Philippine Sea Plate is driven under the Philippine Mobile Belt.
Mayon demonstrated a Plinian blast, the largest and most violent type of eruption, that partly destroyed the historical Cagsawa church in lahar. The church is about 10 km (6 miles) away from the volcano. Plinian-type eruptions can produce ash falls, lava bombs, volcanic rocks miles away from a volcano. This is also the type of explosion that Mt. Pinatubo exhibited in its most destructive blast, one of the worst natural disasters in the country, in 1991. Mayon Volcano has erupted nearly 50 times since its first recorded explosion in 1616. Photo by Naoki Mengua/Rappler. MANILA, Philippines-Exactly 201 years ago today, on February 1, 1814, the people of Albay witnessed Mayon Volcano’s most destructive eruption yet.
13.257 N, 123.685 E. summit elevation 2462 m. stratovolcano. Mayon volcano is a beautifully symmetrical volcano with a steep upper slope of 35-40 and is capped by a small summit crater 200 m in diameter. Mayon eruptions produce lava flows, pyroclastic flows and mud flows which threaten populations at the base of the volcano. A 6 km radius permanent danger zone is in place around the volcano. This is due to the possibility of sudden phreatic eruptions and rockfalls from the upper and middle slopes of the volcano.
Beautifully symmetrical Mayon volcano, which rises to 2462 m above the Albay Gulf, is the Philippines' most active volcano. The structurally simple volcano has steep upper slopes averaging 35-40 degrees that are capped by a small summit crater. The initial eruption lasted only 30 minutes but it generated pyroclastic flows that killed 68 people and prompted the evacuation of 60,000 others. This photo shows pyroclastic flows descending Mayon on March 2, 1993. Photograph credit: Steve O'Meara of Volcano Watch International.