Perishable food in a refrigerator lasts about four hours without power, as long as the door is kept closed. Opening the door lets some of the cold escape and increases the temperature in the fridge, so keep it closed as long as possible. A refrigerator thermometer helps you keep an eye on the temperature. Freezer. Items stored in a freezer compartment will last longer than in the fridge because the temperature is cooler and the items have been frozen. A freezer that's full may keep food cool enough to be safe for 24 hours. Freezer food that thaws to above 40 degrees Fahrenheit for more than two hours should be discarded
Confidence votes 39.2K. According to the United States Department of Agriculture, the refrigerator will keep food cold for about 4 hours if it is unopened. A full freezer will hold the temperature for approximately 48 hours (24 hours if it is half full) if the door remains closed. Obtain dry or block ice to keep your refrigerator as cold as possible if the power is going to be out for a prolonged period of time. 
Keep the refrigerator and freezer doors closed as much as possible to maintain the cold temperature. The refrigerator will keep food safely cold for about 4 hours if it is unopened. A full freezer will hold the temperature for approximately 48 hours (24 hours if it is half full) if the door remains closed. (and you can buy dry ice…click link).
• A closed refrigerator should keep your food cool for 4 to 6 hours. • A closed, full freezer should keep your food frozen for up to 48 hours, while a half full freezer should keep your food frozen for up to 24 hours. • If food is warm for longer than 4 hours, throw the food out. HOW LONG WILL MY FOOD STAY COLD? • A closed refrigerator should keep your food cool for 4 – 6 hours. • Kept closed, a
According to the United States Department of Agriculture, the refrigerator will keep food cold for about 4 hours if it is unopened. A full freezer will hold the temperature f … or approximately 48 hours (24 hours if it is half full) if the door remains closed. 
The refrigerator will keep food safely cold for about 4 hours if it is unopened. A full freezer will hold the temperature for approximately 48 hours (24 hours if it is half full) if the door remains closed. 
The refrigerator: how long will foods remain safe without power? · All foods: at least 4 hours, if the fridge is left unopened. · Discard after 4 hours without power: Meat, poultry, fish, milk, eggs, cooked leftovers, soft cheeses, deli cold cuts/salads and other perishable foods. · Approximately 48 hours, if the freezer is full. · Approximately 24 hours, if the freezer is half-full. Keep the freezer door closed as much as possible to maintain its cold temperature.
Deep freezers keep food colder than attached freezers. This extends the length of time you can freeze items safely. For that reason, as long as you keep the door(s) closed, a chest-style deep freezer will keep foods frozen for up to 72 hours without power. Food becomes unsafe when the temperature of the refrigerator goes above 45 degrees for more than two hours. In most small attached-style freezers, a half-full freezer will last up to 24 hours and a full freezer will last up to 48 hours.
But, the refrigerator will only keep food safely cold for about four hours if unopened during a power outage, according to the USDA. A full freezer will hold the temperature for about 48 hours if full (24 hours of half full), the USDA says. More from Medfield Patch. 