Endocrine Glands. Endocrine glands lack ducts-they are often referred to as ductless glands.. Endocrine glands secrete directly into the tissue fluid that surrounds them. The product of endocrine glands are hormones, which they release into the extracellular space. Classification of Glands. Glands are classified as endocrine (internal seceretion) or exocrine (external secretion) depending on where they release their product and unicellular or multicellular based on the number of cells in the gland.
Glandular epithelium is composed of cells that are specialized to produce and secrete substances. Such cells occur most commonly within columnar and cuboidal epithelia, and one or more of these cells constitute a gland. If the duct and secretory portions are of uniform diameter, the gland is tubular. If the secretory cells form a dilated sac at the end of the duct, it is acinar, and if the secretory cells extend uniformly from the duct then form a sac, it is called tubuloacinar.
Glandular epitheliumis composed of cells that are specialized to produce and secrete substances. Such cells occur most commonly within columnar and cuboidal epithelia, and one or more of these cells constitute a gland. If the duct and secretory portions are of uniform diameter, the gland is tubular. If the secretory cells form a dilated sac at the end of the duct, it is acinar, and if the secretory cells extend uniformly from the duct then form a sac, it is called tubuloacinar.
Simple glands. • When a gland consists of a single secretory passage or a single opening system of secretory passages into an unbranched duct, it is called a simple gland. Simple glands are further classified into: – Tubular glands-straight, coiled, branched. – Tubuloalveolar (tubuloacinar). • Typically, glands are classified into two major groups: – Exocrine glands. – Endocrine glands. EXOCRINE GLANDS. • Exocrine glands secrete their products onto a surface directly or through epithelial ducts or tubes that are connected to a surface. Exocrine glands are classified as: • Unicellular glands.
1 The duct portion may be branched (called compound) or unbranched (called simple). 2  The glandular portion may be tubular or acinar, or may be a mix of the two (called tubuloacinar). 3  If the glandular portion branches, then the gland is called a branched gland. Examples of exocrine glands include sweat, salivary, mammary, ceruminous, lacrimal, sebaceous, and mucous. Exocrine glands are one of two types of glands in the human body, the other being endocrine glands, which secrete their products directly into the bloodstream.
This type of multicellular exocrine gland has a branched rounded secretory part attached to a single unbranched duct and is found mainly in sebaceous glands. simple branched acinar gland. simple tubular exocrine glands have. a straight tubular secretory portion attached to a single unbranched duct. 
Exocrine glands contain a glandular portion and a duct portion, the structures of which can be used to classify the gland. 1  The duct portion may be branched (called compound) or unbranched (called simple). Examples of exocrine glands include sweat, salivary, mammary, ceruminous, lacrimal, sebaceous, and mucous. Exocrine glands are one of two types of glands in the human body, the other being endocrine glands, which secrete their products directly into the bloodstream.
Exocrine glands are glands that produce and secrete substances onto an epithelial surface by way of a duct. Examples of exocrine glands include sweat, salivary, mammary, ceruminous, lacrimal, sebaceous, and mucous. Exocrine glands are one of two types of glands in the human body, the other being endocrine glands, which secrete their products directly into the bloodstream.
Glands that secrete their products directly into tissue fluids or the blood without ducts are called endocrine glands. Those that secrete their products into ducts that open onto internal or external open surfaces are called exocrine glands. If the duct and secretory portions are of uniform diameter, the gland is tubular. If the secretory cells form a dilated sac at the end of the duct, it is acinar, and if the secretory cells extend uniformly from the duct then form a sac, it is called tubuloacinar.
Exocrine glands are classified according to whether the duct system is unbranched (simple) or branched (compound), and according to the distribution of secretory versus ductile epithelium. If the duct and secretory portions are of uniform diameter, the gland is tubular. If the secretory cells form a dilated sac at the end of the duct, it is acinar, and if the secretory cells extend uniformly from the duct then form a sac, it is called tubuloacinar.