History of Murcia. The old city of Murcia was founded in 831 by Abd-Al-Rahman II at the centre of the valley, at a place where Iberian and Roman settlements were thought to exist in ancient times. With the foundation of the city of Murcia, the social upheavals in the area were meant to be kept at bay. 
History. Most important milestones in the history of Spain. The history of Spain is a compendium of influences from the different cultures that have lived in the country. The first settlers on the Peninsula were the Celts and the Iberians. The first testimonials written about the country date back to this period
Spain-Murcia-Lorca. The Parador of Lorca (Murcia) is located within the historical precinct of the Castle of Lorca, a meeting point of three cultures (Islamic, Jewish and Christian). It was declared Monument of Cultural Interest in 1931. The thirteenth century castle of Lorca is located in a strategic position overlooking the city. 
Murcia was founded by the emir of Cordoba Abd ar-Rahman II in 825 AD with the name Mursiyah مرسية and nowadays is mainly a services city and a university town. Highlights for visitors include the Cathedral of Murcia and a number of baroque buildings, renowned local cuisine, Holy Week procession works of art by the famous Murcian sculptor Francisco Salzillo, and the Fiestas de Primavera (Spring Festival).
THE SPANISH OF MURCIA. Introduction. Murcia, an area historically comprising two contemporary provinces of Spain (Murcia and Albacete) and parts of several others, represents a linguistic transition zone sandwiched among the dialects of eastern Andalusia, Alicante, and Castilla/La Mancha.
Music in Spain has a long and diverse history with its influences stemming from various cultural streams, the strongest coming from centuries of uninterrupted Roman rule, which left an enduring imprint upon the culture of music in Spain. 
Murcia (/ˈmʊərsiə/ or /ˈmɜrʃⁱə/ , [ˈmuɾθja]) is a city in south-eastern Spain, the capital and most populous city of the Autonomous Community of the Region of Murcia, and the seventh largest city in the country, with a population of 442,573 inhabitants in 2009 (about one third of the total population of the Region). Highlights for visitors include the Cathedral of Murcia and a number of baroque buildings, renowned local cuisine, Holy Week procession works of art by the famous Murcian sculptor Francisco Salzillo, and the Fiestas de Primavera (Spring Festival).
The cultures of Spain are European cultures based on a variety of historical influences, primarily that of Ancient Rome, but also the pre-Roman Celtic and Iberian culture, and that of the Phoenicians and the Moors. In the areas of language and religion. 
The city, as the capital of the comarca Huerta de Murcia is called Europe’s orchard due to its long agricultural tradition and as a fruits, vegetables and flowers producer and exporter. Highlights for visitors include the Cathedral of Murcia and a number of baroque buildings, renowned local cuisine, Holy Week procession works of art by the famous Murcian sculptor Francisco Salzillo, and the Fiestas de Primavera (Spring Festival).