coleus Overview Information. Forskolin is a chemical found in the roots of the plant Plectranthus barbatus (Coleus forskohlii). This plant has been used since ancient times to treat heart disorders such as high blood pressure and chest pain (angina), as well as respiratory disorders such as asthma. Forskolin drops are used in the eyes to treat glaucoma. Herbal product manufacturers are now producing Coleus forskohlii extracts that contain high levels of forskolin. These preparations are being promoted for the same conditions for which forskolin has been traditionally used.
Many people turn to natural supplements when attempting to lose weight. Forskolin is found in the roots of an herbal plant from the mint family. Web MD cites that this plant has been used since ancient times to treat health problems such as high blood pressure and chest pains as well as asthma. Forskolin Can Break Down Excess Fat. Weight gain results in excess fat in unwanted places. 
Loading ... Forskolin extract is a supplement also known as a labdane diterpene. It is a type of compound which is similar to retinol, retinal, phytol, and is known to be both anti-microbial and anti-inflammatory. In other words, Forskolin works by essentially bypassing the steps associated with unwanted side effects like nervousness and restlessness. As this enzyme is activated, it converts into something known as cAMP. This, in turn, increases levels of a protein called kinase and also hormone-sensitive lipase (HSL).
Forskolin appears to work in a way similar to certain types of conventional asthma drugs, by boosting the levels of a compound called cyclic AMP. This helps relax the muscles around the bronchial tubes to make breathing easier. Forskolin has also been used to try to treat glaucoma. But there is no proof that it works. A small study indicates that forskolin may help relieve pressure in the eyes, which is often seen in glaucoma. But the study was done on healthy people. 
1 \r\n\t\tBlood Pressure: Forskolin is also used as a maintenance supplement for those with the potential of developing high blood pressure. 2  Although, it cannot actually lower the blood pressure so it won’t be of any use to those who are seeking a way to bring their numbers down. For those who seek to control their glaucoma symptoms Forskolin is taken as an eye drop. This treatment is still very new so there is not very much information about it. However, the drops themselves will include a 1% dose of the supplement.
While there are many weight loss supplements that do help with people’s weight loss efforts, only a select few have really stood out. One of these is Forskolin. Now, you might be scratching your head as to what this supplement is. This is because Forskolin is not primarily used for weight loss. In fact, Forskolin is a popular ingredient in many medications for asthma, high blood pressure, heart disease, arthritis, and as well as skin disorders. 
Forskolin (also called Coleonol) is a labdane diterpene that is produced by the Indian Coleus plant (Coleus forskohlii). Forskolin is commonly used to raise levels of cyclic AMP (cAMP) in the study and research of cell physiology. There is limited information on forskolin’s use in pregnant women. The safety has not yet been determined. Historically, Forskolin has been used to stimulate or promote menses in women as well as a form of oral birth control. Forskolin should be used with caution or avoided altogether in women who are pregnant.
“Forskolin” is one of the diterpene core ingredients that’s extracted from a small plant belonging to the mint and lavender family, known as Coleus Forskohlii. The Coleus Forskohlii plant has several other benefits aside from weight loss. It relaxes blood vessels walls, fighting against high blood pressure. 
In the supplement realm, forskolin is predominantly used within formulations to support fat burning and energy levels, but is also applicable for use in products targeting blood pressure, digestion, and testosterone levels. What makes forskolin so unique, though, is that its actions on cAMP levels are reversible, and it accomplishes this action without the use of other cellular receptors such as beta adrenoreceptors, contrary to other well-known fat burners such as ephedrine.