This chemical energy is stored in carbohydrate molecules, such as sugars, which are synthesized from carbon dioxide and water – hence the name photosynthesis, from the Greek φῶς, phōs, light, and σύνθεσις, synthesis, putting together. In most cases, oxygen is also released as a waste product. This addition of the electrons is a reduction reaction. In general outline and in effect, photosynthesis is the opposite of cellular respiration, in which glucose and other compounds are oxidized to produce carbon dioxide and water, and to release exothermic chemical energy to drive the organism's metabolism.
Photosynthesis Summary. In summary, photosynthesis is a process in which light energy is converted to chemical energy and used to produce organic compounds. In plants, photosynthesis typically occurs within the chloroplasts located in plant leaves. Photosynthesis consists of two stages, the light reactions and the dark reactions. In photosynthesis, solar energy is converted to chemical energy. The chemical energy is stored in the form of glucose (sugar). Carbon dioxide, water, and sunlight are used to produce glucose, oxygen, and water.
7.Chlorophyll absorbs every color of sunlight except this. (5) green 8.A compound needed for photosynthesis. (6,7) carbon dioxide 10.The product of photosynthesis. (5) sugar Down 2.The process by which plants and some bacteria use the energy from sunlight to produce sugar. Across 1.A plant pigment that absorbs sunlight. (11) 4.The links between the energy that carnivores get from eating to the energy captured by photosynthesis. (4,5) 7.Chlorophyll absorbs every color of sunlight except this. (5) 8.A compound needed for photosynthesis. (6,7) 10.The product of photosynthesis. (5)...
Photosynthesis is a process used by plants, which is done to make food (glucose/sugar).   Photosynthesis requires carbon dioxide (CO2), sunlight, and water (H2O) whic … h would create glucose (sugar), and oxygen (O2).   A compound is a group of 2 or more different atoms combined chemically.   The compounds that is included for photosynthesis is carbon dioxide and water. 6 people found this useful.
Photosynthesis is a process used by plants, which is done to make food (glucose/sugar).   Photosynthesis requires carbon dioxide (CO2), sunlight, and water (H2O) whic … h would create glucose (sugar), and oxygen (O2).   A compound is a group of 2 or more different atoms combined chemically.   The compounds that is included for photosynthesis is carbon dioxide and water. 6 people found this useful.
Photosynthesis is the process by which green plants and certain other organisms transform light energy into chemical energy. Photosynthesis in green plants harnesses the energy of sunlight to convert carbon dioxide, water, and minerals into organic compounds and gaseous oxygen. Other products of photosynthesis are formed by incorporating mineral elements into the process. The energy required to break the chemical bonds in the reactants and to create new bonds in the products is provided by light.
Photosynthesis Photosynthesis is the process by which plants, some bacteria and some protistans use the energy from sunlight to produce glucose from carbon dioxide and water. This glucose can be converted into pyruvate which releases adenosine triphosphate (ATP) by cellular respiration. Oxygen is also formed. Photosynthesis may be summarised by the word equation: carbon dioxide + water glucose + oxygen The conversion of usable sunlight energy into chemical energy is associated with the action of the green pigment chlorophyll. Chlorophyll is a complex molecule.
Carbon dioxide is converted into sugars in a process called carbon fixation. Carbon fixation is an endothermic redox reaction, so photosynthesis needs to supply both a source of energy to drive this process, and the electrons needed to convert carbon dioxide into a carbohydrate. This addition of the electrons is a reduction reaction. In general outline and in effect, photosynthesis is the opposite of cellular respiration, in which glucose and other compounds are oxidized to produce carbon dioxide and water, and to release exothermic chemical energy to drive the organism's metabolism.