Charcot arthropathy, also known as Charcot foot and ankle, is a syndrome in patients who have neuropathy or loss of sensation. It includes fractures and dislocations of bones and joints that occur with minimal or no known trauma.​. Charcot foot occurs in patients with peripheral neuropathy resulting from diverse conditions including diabetes mellitus, leprosy, syphilis, poliomyelitis, chronic alcoholism or syringomyelia. Repetitive microtrauma that exceeds the rate of healing may cause fractures and dislocations.
Charcot Foot. Charcot foot is a deformity that results from nerve damage (neuropathy) in the foot or ankle. The nerve damage causes a loss of sensation that increases the risk of injury to the feet. When the foot is repeatedly injured, the weight-bearing joints start breaking down. 
Charcot foot. Destruction of the joints of the feet and/or ankles in patients with diabetic neuropathy. Although the bony destruction limits the ability of the patient to walk, it is often painless. 
Abstract. The diabetic Charcot foot syndrome is a serious and potentially limb-threatening lower-extremity complication of diabetes. First described in 1883, this enigmatic condition continues to challenge even the most experienced practitioners. Now considered an inflammatory syndrome, the diabetic Charcot foot is characterized by varying degrees of bone and joint disorganization secondary to underlying neuropathy, trauma, and perturbations of bone metabolism.
In those with Charcot's foot the ability to sense pain is usually lost or impaired (as a result of diabetic neuropathy). The muscles lose their ability to support the foot correctly. As a result of this, minor trauma (eg sprains; stress fractures) to the foot go undetected and do not get treated. However, some people with Charcot's foot can develop a deep aching type pain, but it is as never as severe as what would be expected given the extent of the injury. Calluses and diabetic foot ulcers may occur as a result of bony protrusions (due to the deformity that develops) causing pressure inside the shoes.
Charcot foot is a progressive, degenerative condition that affects the joints in the feet and is most commonly associated with vascular complications and nerve damage (neuropathy). Charcot foot usually affects only one foot, but 20 percent of patients develop it in both feet. According to the American Diabetes Association, onset of the condition generally occurs after the age of 50, among patients who have been living with diabetes for fifteen years or more.
Neuropathic arthropathy (or neuropathic osteoarthropathy), also known as Charcot joint (often Charcot foot), refers to progressive degeneration of a weight bearing joint, a process marked by bony destruction, bone resorption, and eventual deformity. Onset is usually insidious. 
Charcot foot is the medical term given to a condition known as “neurogenic arthropathy” which affects the foot joints. This is a degenerative form of arthritis which rapidly progresses. It causes joint and bone damage that may lead to foot deformities which are severe. Charcot Foot Causes. There are currently 2 theories about joint destruction with this condition and how it occurs. The first theory is neurotraumatic theory which believes that trauma which is mechanical because of loss of skin sensations as well as loss of pain can lead to destruction of the bone.
Charcot Foot. Any signs of foot damage should be reported to a doctor immediately. Charcot foot is a type of bone deformity that can lead to serious damage and disability. If a person suffers from especially bad neuropathy, the sensation in their feet and their sense of balance may be affected. 