1 If there is a known cause for your seizure (for example, brain injury or other type of known brain condition), then you are twice as likely to have another seizure. 2  If you have two seizures, there's about an 80% chance that you'll have more. ADVERTISEMENT. 1  A seizure is a sudden surge of electrical activity in the brain. 2  A seizure usually affects how a person appears or acts for a short time. 3  Many different things can occur during a seizure.
Convulsions are when a person's body shakes rapidly and uncontrollably. During convulsions, the person's muscles contract and relax repeatedly. The term convulsion is often used interchangeably with seizure, although there are many types of seizures, some of which have subtle or mild symptoms instead of convulsions. Seizures of all types are caused by disorganized and sudden electrical activity in the brain. Convulsions can be unsettling to watch. Despite their appearance, most seizures are relatively harmless. They usually last from 30 seconds to 2 minutes. However, if a seizure is prolonged, or if multiple seizures happen and the person doesn't awaken in between, this is a medical emergency.
There are many different types of seizures. Some last for only a few seconds, while others may last a few minutes. The specific type of seizure a person has depends on where in the brain the seizure starts, how the seizure spreads and how much (and what part) of the brain is involved. Seizures might include: 1  Loss of consciousness. 2  Convulsions (whole body shaking). 3  Confusion. 4  Brief periods of staring. 5  A sudden feeling of fear or panic. 
Convulsion: An abnormal, involuntary contraction of the muscles most typically seen with certain seizure disorders. The term convulsion is sometimes used as a synonym for seizure, but not all seizures are characterized by convulsions. A person having convulsions appears to be shaking rapidly and without control. 
Tweet. medical: a sudden violent shaking of the muscles in your body that you are unable to control. : a sudden experience of something (such as laughter) that shakes or moves your body. : a sudden change or disturbance that affects a country, organization, etc
Causes. Convulsions happen because of sudden, abnormal electrical activity in the brain. Febrile convulsions. Febrile convulsions are seizures that occur because of fever, which is a temperature higher than 38°C. High fevers might come with an infection. We don’t know why, but in these cases, the rapid rise in temperature causes an abnormal electrical discharge in the brain.
A convulsion is a medical condition where body muscles contract and relax rapidly and repeatedly, resulting in an uncontrolled shaking of the body. Because a convulsion is often a symptom of an epileptic seizure, the term convulsion is sometimes used as a synonym for seizure. However, not all epileptic seizures lead to convulsions, and not all convulsions are caused by epileptic seizures. The most common type of seizure is called a generalized seizure, also known as a generalized convulsion. This is characterized by a loss of consciousness which may lead to the person collapsing. The body stiffens for about a minute and then jerks uncontrollably for the next minute.
Convulsions, also sometimes called seizures, are a medical condition in which a person’s body appears to shake in an uncontrollable manner. When a person experiences them, his or her muscles quickly contract and relax repeatedly. This is what causes the appearance of rapid shaking movements. 