The frontal lobe contains most of the dopamine-sensitive neurons in the cerebral cortex. The dopamine system is associated with reward, attention, short-term memory tasks, planning, and motivation. This personality change is characteristic of damage to the frontal lobe and was exemplified in the case of Phineas Gage. The frontal lobe is the same part of the brain that is responsible for executive functions such as planning for the future, judgment, decision-making skills, attention span, and inhibition.
Hence, you have a right-sided frontal lobe and a leftt-sided frontal lobe. Your personality lives in the frontal lobes, where emotions, problem solving, reasoning, planning and other functions are managed. The frontal lobes are linked to sensory and memory centers throughout the brain. Their primary job is to allow us to think things through and determine how to use information that is located elsewhere in the brain.
The cerebrum, which is the largest part of the brain, is divided into four areas, or lobes, each of which houses different functions. The cerebrum is also divided into two hemispheres: the right, which helps you think creatively and the left, which helps you think logically. The frontal lobes are linked to sensory and memory centers throughout the brain. Their primary job is to allow us to think things through and determine how to use information that is located elsewhere in
The Cerebrum: The cerebrum or cortex is the largest part of the human brain, associated with higher brain function such as thought and action. The cerebral cortex is divided into four sections, called lobes: the frontal lobe, parietal lobe, occipital lobe, and temporal lobe. 
The areas at the back of the brain (the ‘parietal’ and ‘occipital’ lobes) are very important in terms of processing what comes in through our senses. In contrast, the areas at the front (the ‘frontal’ and ‘temporal’ lobes) act as a control centre, and help us to integrate and make sense of this information. 
The frontal lobes are considered our emotional control center and home to our personality. There is no other part of the brain where lesions can cause such a wide variety of symptoms (Kolb & Wishaw, 1990). The frontal lobes are involved in motor function, problem solving, spontaneity, memory, language, initiation, judgement, impulse control, and social and sexual behavior. One of the most common effects of frontal damage can be a dramatic change in social behavior. A person's personality can undergo significant changes after an injury to the frontal lobes, especially when both lobes are involved. There are some differences in the left versus right frontal lobes in this area.
Frontal lobe Function. Each of the different regions of the frontal lobe regulates a specific function in the body. The intricate functions of the frontal lobe are ever difficult to fathom. Indeed, this specific portion of the brain is a powerful one because of its both motor and sensory functions. Each lobe is responsible for a specific function. For instance, the frontal lobe’s primary functions may have something to do with movement and cognition. This is also believed to be involved in higher cognitive functions which concern your behavior and as well as emotions.
This means, for example, that neurons in the left frontal lobe send signals to and receive signals from the right side of the body. Two of the most clearly defined areas of the brain in terms of their function are the motor and sensory strips. The Brain. Epilepsy is a seizure disorder that results from abnormal activity in the brain. To understand why seizures occur and why they induce a variety of physical manifestations, it is important to understand normal brain function as well as what causes cells in the brain to function abnormally.
Located behind the frontal lobes, the parietal lobes: 1  integrate sensory information from various parts of the body. 2  contain the primary sensory cortex, which controls sensation (touch, hot or cold, pain). 3  tell us which way is up. Frontal Lobes. Located behind the forehead, the frontal lobes are the largest lobes of the brain. They are prone to injury because they sit just inside the front of the skull and near rough bony ridges. These two lobes are involved in: 1  planning & organizing