Directions. 1  Put some olive oil in the bottom of a 9X13 pan (just enough to put the drumsticks on). 2  Add drumsticks (space enough apart so they aren't touching each other). 3  Sprinkle generously with pepper and garlic powder. 4  Bake at 375 for half an hour. 5  Bake another half an hour (or until cooked til 160 degrees)). 1 Put some olive oil in the bottom of a 9X13 pan (just enough to put the drumsticks on). 2  Add drumsticks (space enough apart so they aren't touching each other). 3  Sprinkle generously with pepper and garlic powder. 4  Sprinkle lightly with salt. 5  Bake at 375 for half an hour.
Preheat the oven to 400°F. Bake the chicken, uncovered, for 35 to 40 minutes or until the chicken is no longer pink inside. You can bake the chicken legs in a 375°F. oven, if desired. Increase the baking time to 45 to 50 minutes. Tip: To reduce fat and calories, you can skin chicken legs. Bake the chicken with the skin on to keep it moist. Cool slightly and pull the skin off, starting at the thigh end.
Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F. Line baking sheets with foil. Melt the butter in a saucepan. Add the lemon juice, salt, black pepper, cayenne and garlic, and stir. Set aside. Rinse and pat the chicken legs dry. With metal tongs, dip them one by one into the butter mixture and place on the prepared baking sheets. 
1 Toss chicken with oil, thyme sprigs, garlic, salt, and pepper in a large bowl, then transfer to a large (17- by 12-inch) shallow heavy baking pan (1 inch deep). 2  Bake chicken 10 minutes, then add lemon slices to pan. 3  Continue to bake until chicken is golden and cooked through, 15 to 20 minutes more. 1 Put oven rack in upper third of oven and preheat oven to 500°F. 2  Toss chicken with oil, thyme sprigs, garlic, salt, and pepper in a large bowl, then transfer to a large (17- by 12-inch) shallow heavy baking pan (1 inch deep). 3  Bake chicken 10 minutes, then add lemon slices to pan
Step 3. Sprinkle the lemon juice over the chicken legs, if you are using it. Alternatively, rub the chicken legs with the chopped garlic if you would like a garlic taste to your chicken and sprinkle coarse salt over them. Then sprinkle thyme over the chicken legs, if you wish to use it.
Directions. 1  Put some olive oil in the bottom of a 9X13 pan (just enough to put the drumsticks on). 2  Add drumsticks (space enough apart so they aren't touching each other). 3  Sprinkle generously with pepper and garlic powder. 4  Sprinkle lightly with salt. 5  Bake at 375 for half an hour. 1 Put some olive oil in the bottom of a 9X13 pan (just enough to put the drumsticks on). 2  Add drumsticks (space enough apart so they aren't touching each other). 3  Sprinkle generously with pepper and garlic powder. 4  Sprinkle lightly with salt. 5  Bake at 375 for half an hour.
Sprinkle all sides with salt. Let the chicken pieces sit for 15 to 20 minutes to take the chill off. 2 Preheat your oven to 400°F (205°C). Pat the chicken pieces dry with a paper towel. Sprinkle all sides with salt. Let the chicken pieces sit for 15 to 20 minutes to take the chill off. 2 Preheat your oven to 400°F (205°C). Pat the chicken pieces dry with a paper towel. Rub olive oil over the chicken pieces and on the bottom of the roasting pan. Sprinkle the chicken pieces all over with black pepper and a little more salt. Arrange the chicken pieces in the pan so that all the pieces are skin-side up, and the largest pieces (the breasts) are in the center of the pan
Baking, or roasting, chicken legs results in juicy, flavorful meat and crispy skin. Preparing them is as simple as tossing the legs with your favorite flavor combinations and popping them in the oven at a fairly high heat. Read on for three ways to make chicken legs: honey baked, spicy hot, and rosemary garlic. Use tongs to coat them in the mixture. Bake the chicken for 30 minutes. 1  Remember to use oven mitts to protect your hands when you remove the pan from the oven. 2  Place the hot pan on a potholder or trivet.