Organisms that cause infectious disease include fungi, oomycetes, bacteria, viruses, viroids, virus-like organisms, phytoplasmas, protozoa, nematodes and parasitic plants. Not included are ectoparasites like insects, mites, vertebrate, or other pests that affect plant health by consumption of plant tissues. 
Anthrax (Bacillus anthracis). Anthrax is a naturally occurring disease of animals caused by a type of bacteria called Bacillus anthracis. People and animals can get anthrax when they accidentally breathe in or swallow spores in contaminated soil, food, or water. The Leptospira spp. bacteria can infect cows, pigs, sheep, goats, horses, and small rodents, and they may not have any signs of illness. Though it is difficult to detect early stages of leptospirosis in animals, the disease can lead to kidney and liver failure if left untreated.
TULAREMIA. It is caused by the bacterium Francisella tularensis found in animals, especially rodents, rabbits, and hares. Symptoms of tularemia could include: sudden fever, chills, headaches, diarrhoea, muscle aches, joint pain, dry cough and progressive weakness. Anthrax is an infectious disease caused by a bacterium called Bacillus anthracis, which can change into spores that can last for a long time in the environment before germinating. It is carried by wild and domestic animals in Asia, Africa and parts of Europe.
Question: 7th grade science. Answers: Whooping Cough Gas Gangrene Meningitis Botulism Syphilis Scarlet Fever Epidemic Typhus Cholera Tuberculosis The list goes on. Bacteria that cause disease are called pathogenic bacteria. Bacteria can cause diseases in humans, in other animals, and also in plants. Some bacteria can only make one particular host ill; others cause trouble in a number of hosts, depending on the host specificity of the bacteria. The diseases caused by bacteria are almost as diverse. 
Leptospirosis. Read more. Leptospirosis is a disease caused by bacteria carried in the urine of infected animals. Many different kinds of wild and domestic animals may carry the bacterium (e.g., cattle, pigs, horses, dogs, rodents, wild animals). 
1 Not all bacteria cause disease. 2  People and animals have bacteria living on and in them that do not cause disease. 3  Examples of diseases in animals caused by bacteria are anthrax, blackquarter and tuberculosis. Protozoa. 1  Some protozoa can live outside cells, especially the type that causes trichomonosis, a venereal disease in cattle. 2  Animals can be poisoned by chemicals (such as insecticides and dips), poisonous plants and fungal toxins. 3  They can also be poisoned when bitten by snakes, scorpions and spiders.
Escherichia coli is a type of bacteria that is normally found in the intestinal tracts of healthy farm animals. Most types of E. coli are harmless, but some can cause serious disease in people. E. coli is a common food-borne bacterium, but it can also be transmitted to people by farm animals and their environment. The Leptospira spp. bacteria can infect cows, pigs, sheep, goats, horses, and small rodents, and they may not have any signs of illness. Though it is difficult to detect early stages of leptospirosis in animals, the disease can lead to kidney and liver failure if left untreated.
1 Bacteria can live in animals and in the environment. 2  Not all bacteria cause disease. 3  People and animals have bacteria living on and in them that do not cause disease. 4  Examples of diseases in animals caused by bacteria are anthrax, blackquarter and tuberculosis. Protozoa. 1  Some protozoa can live outside cells, especially the type that causes trichomonosis, a venereal disease in cattle. 2  Animals can be poisoned by chemicals (such as insecticides and dips), poisonous plants and fungal toxins. 3  They can also be poisoned when bitten by snakes, scorpions and spiders.
Q fever is a bacterial disease caused by Coxiella burnetii and primarily affects cattle, sheep, and goats, although other livestock and pets can carry the bacteria. Most animals have no symptoms, but infection may cause abortion in sheep and goats. Avian influenza (bird flu) refers to the disease caused by avian influenza A viruses. These viruses occur naturally among wild waterbirds, and can infect poultry and other birds and animals. On rare occasions avian influenza viruses can infect people causing illness.
It is a bacterial disease that affects humans and animals. It is caused by bacteria of the genus Leptospira. Symptoms of leptospirosis include high fever, severe headache, chills, muscle aches, and vomiting, and may include jaundice (yellow skin and eyes), red eyes, abdominal pain, diarrhea, or a rash. Anthrax is an infectious disease caused by a bacterium called Bacillus anthracis, which can change into spores that can last for a long time in the environment before germinating. It is carried by wild and domestic animals in Asia, Africa and parts of Europe.