A Mammal is normally  defined as a warm-blooded animal with a co … vering of skin and hair  which gives birth to live young who are nourished with milk  produced by the mother's mammary glands. A mammal is a animal that is warmblooded vertebrate (which  means a animal with a backbone) It must have at least a little bit  of fur (hair) on its body. Also a mammal's baby must be born alive  and must drink it's mother's milk.
What Makes a Mammal A warm-blooded animal with a backbone that breathes air, and has at least some hair at some point during its life. The females have glands that produce milk, which they feed to their young. There are more than 4,000 different species A group of individuals that have many of the same characteristics, and are different from all other animals in some important way. Hamsters and mice are two different species of rodent. of mammals.
There are a few main characteristics that set mammals apart from other animal groups, like insects or reptiles. These special characteristics make a mammal a mammal. 1  The animal is warm-blooded or endothermic – able to keep a constant body temperature no matter what the temperature of the environment. 2  The animal has mammary glands, which produces milk to nurse the young. 
Other characteristics of dolphins that make them mammals rather than fish are that they give birth to live young rather than laying eggs and they feed their young with milk. Also, like all mammals, dolphins even have a tiny amount of hair, right around the blowhole, which is a little different than the scales of a fish. 
A Mammal is normally defined as a warm blooded animal with a covering of fur, skin or hair which gives birth to live young who are nourished with milk, and who are vertebrate. … All mammals suckle their young, but there is a sub-group known as monotremes, which are the egg-laying mammals. A mammal is a animal that is warmblooded vertebrate (which  means a animal with a backbone) It must have at least a little bit  of fur (hair) on its body. Also a mammal's baby must be born alive  and must drink it's mother's milk.
Whales are mammals because they give birth to live young, they have fur (although it is very sparse on their body), they have lungs and breath air and they provide milk for their young. You have a lot of interesting questions about marine mammals. Dolphins and other whales are all mammals called cetaceans. 
Mammals are a particular class of animal. What makes an animal a mammal are several things. First, they must have glands that give milk. This is to feed their babies. Second, they are warm-blooded. Third, all mammals have fur or hair. Humans are mammals and so are dogs, whales, elephants, and horses.
All mammals: 1  Are vertebrates (which means they have a backbone The column of bones (spine) in the back of many animals. 2  It supports the body. 3  An animal with a backbone is called a vertebrate. or spine A stiff, sharp projection on an animal; another word for quill. The females have glands that produce milk, which they feed to their young. There are more than 4,000 different species A group of individuals that have many of the same characteristics, and are different from all other animals in some important way. Hamsters and mice are two different species of rodent. of mammals.