In 1978, this song was covered by Filipino singer Sam Sorono (1950–2008) on his Sings Tom Jones' Greatest Hits LP album with EMI Records. In 1996 Ike Turner released an album with the title Without Love ... I Have Nothing. In 1969, Tom Jones recorded the most successful charting version of the song, and it reached number five on the U.S. Hot 100 and number one on the Easy Listening chart in early 1970. In Canada, the single went to number one on the RPM 100 national Top Singles chart on Valentine's Day (February 14), 1970.
A World Without Love  is a song recorded by the English duo Peter and Gordon and released as their first single in February 1964, reaching number one in the UK Singles Chart in April. The song was written by Paul McCartney and attributed to Lennon–McCartney. The B-side was If I Were You written by Peter and Gordon. In June 1964, A World Without Love topped the Billboard Hot 100 in the US. It also reached number one on the Cash Box chart in the US for one week. The song was one of the seven #1s written by Lennon-McCartney that charted in the US in 1964, an all-time songwriting record for most songs to top the US charts in a calendar year. A World Without Love is one of The Rock and Roll Hall of Fame's 500 Songs that Shaped Rock and Roll.
Without Love (There is Nothing)  is a song written by Danny Small and originally recorded by Clyde McPhatter in 1957. In 1969, Tom Jones recorded the most successful charting version of the song, and it reached number five on the U.S. Hot 100 and number one on the Easy Listening chart in early 1970. In Canada, the single went to number one on the RPM 100 national Top Singles chart on Valentine's Day (February 14), 1970.
. Without Love (There is Nothing)  is a song written by Danny Small and originally recorded by Clyde McPhatter in 1957. McPhatter's version peaked at number six on the R&B Best Seller chart and number nineteen on Billboard Hot 100. In 1969, Tom Jones recorded the most successful charting version of the song, and it reached number five on the U.S. Hot 100 and number one on the Easy Listening chart in early 1970. In Canada, the single went to number one on the RPM 100 national Top Singles chart on Valentine's Day (February 14), 1970.
Please lock me away. And don't allow the day. Here inside, where I hide with my loneliness. I don't care what they say, I won't stay. In a world without love. Birds sing out of tune. And rain clouds hide the moon. I'm OK, here I stay with my loneliness. I don't care what they say, I won't stay. In a world without love. (Please lock me away). (And don't allow the day). (Here inside, where I hide with my loneliness). I don't care what they say, I won't stay. In a world without love. So I wait, and in a while.
But if it's not love that you need. Then I'll try my best to make everything succeed. Tell me, what is my life without your love. Tell me, who am I without you, ooh, by my side. Tell me, what is my life without your love, oh. Tell me, who am I without you, ooh, by my side. What I feel, I can't say. Tell me, who am I without you, ooh, by my side. Oh, tell me, what is my life without your love, oh. Tell me, who am I without you, ooh, by my side. What is my life without your love, oh. Tell me, who am I without you, ooh, by my side. Oh, tell me, what is my life without your love, oh. Tell me who am I without you.
But if it's not love that you need. Then I'll try my best to make everything succeed. Tell me, what is my life without your love, oh. Tell me, who am I without you, ooh, by my side. Oh, tell me, what is my life without your love, oh. Tell me, who am I without you, ooh, by my side. What is my life without your love, oh. Tell me, who am I without you, ooh, by my side. Oh, tell me, what is my life without your love, oh. Tell me who am I without you.
So baby until then. Lock me away. And don't allow the day. Here inside, where I hide with my loneliness. I don't care what they say, I won't stay. In a world without love. (Please lock me away). (And don't allow the day). (Here inside, where I hide with my loneliness). I don't care what they say, I won't stay. In a world without love. So I wait, and in a while.
I was playing on guitar and singing a tribute song to the late great bass singer from the Drifters Bill Pinkley who just passed away and the melody and words for A World Without Love popped in my brain for some obscure reason. Paul McCartney went out with Asher's sister, the actress Jane Asher, which is how he met Peter. In the '60s, Jane had a famous father, a really famous boyfriend, and some prominent movie roles, including the 1966 film Alfie.