Food-derived flavonoid quercetin, widely distributed in onions, apples, and tea, is able to inhibit growth of various cancer cells indicating that this compound may be considered as a good candidate for anticancer therapy. Antimutagenic and antioxidant / prooxidant activity of quercetin. Subjects ingested a soup containing either a high or a low amount of quercetin. The high-quercetin soup contained 69 mg total quercetin compared with the low-quercetin soup containing 5 mg. Plasma quercetin concentrations were significantly higher after high-quercetin soup ingestion than after low.
Saw Palmetto extract standardized to contain 45% fatty acids-serenoa repens fruit Stinging-Nettle 4:1 extract (urtica diocia root) Quercetin Rosemary 4:1 extract Beta Sitosterol Pygeum afrcianum extract Daidzein, Genistein, and Lycopene. Q. I am a researcher in Australia. Subjects ingested a soup containing either a high or a low amount of quercetin. The high-quercetin soup contained 69 mg total quercetin compared with the low-quercetin soup containing 5 mg. Plasma quercetin concentrations were significantly higher after high-quercetin soup ingestion than after low.
But with the wide array of nutritional benefits rosemary provides, what this herb does for human health is truly remarkable. The litany of vitamins and minerals in rosemary is a long one, with corresponding uses in the body for each. Rosemary is one of those herbs with a thousand uses. It's extremely hardy and therefore easy to grow and maintain inside or out. Indoors, it requires lots of light but not too much heat and humid air. Spritz the plant with water a few times a week.
1 Some research suggests that eating foods rich in quercetin, such as tea, onions and apples, can reduce the risk of heart disease-related death in elderly men. 2  However, other early research suggests that taking a daily quercetin supplement does not improve heart disease risk factors. 3  High cholesterol. Quercetin is a plant pigment (flavonoid). It is found in many plants and foods, such as red wine, onions, green tea, apples, berries, Ginkgo biloba, St. John's wort, American elder, and others. Buckwheat tea has a large amount of quercetin.
Fresh rosemary leaves are a good source of antioxidant vitamin; vitamin-C containing about 22 mg per 100 g, about 37% of RDA. The vitamin is required for the collagen synthesis in the body. Rosmarinic acid, a natural polyphenolic antioxidant found in rosemary, has been found to have anti-bacterial, anti-inflammatory, and anti-oxidant functions. Apart from the rosemary, other popular herbs like Sage, peppermint, oregano, thyme herbs also contain appreciable levels of rosmarinic acid.
Apples, as well as many other colorful fruits and vegetables, contain a rich amount of a particularly powerful antioxidant called quercetin. Quercetin is a flavonol type of flavonoid, found in plants, known for its potent antioxidant activity. Quercetin may also inhibit the enzyme that the HIV virus needs to replicate itself (protease). Recent in vitro studies in 2005 and 2006 suggest that the way quercetin inhibits cancer cell proliferation is by causing cell death and/or stopping the cells from growing at some point in the cellular reproductive cycle. 3.
Common cold, and immune health Quercetin, a naturally occurring, powerful antioxidant found in red grapes, red wine, red apples, green tea and broccoli, appears to be one of the first plant compound proven in a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trial to reduce susceptibility to viral illnesses. Subjects ingested a soup containing either a high or a low amount of quercetin. The high-quercetin soup contained 69 mg total quercetin compared with the low-quercetin soup containing 5 mg. Plasma quercetin concentrations were significantly higher after high-quercetin soup ingestion than after low.
1 Heart disease. 2  Some research suggests that eating foods rich in quercetin, such as tea, onions and apples, can reduce the risk of heart disease-related death in elderly men. 3  However, other early research suggests that taking a daily quercetin supplement does not improve heart disease risk factors. 4  High cholesterol. Quercetin is a plant pigment (flavonoid). It is found in many plants and foods, such as red wine, onions, green tea, apples, berries, Ginkgo biloba, St. John's wort, American elder, and others. Buckwheat tea has a large amount of quercetin.