Dalmatians were breed to run along side a horse and carriage. They are very fast and capable of running really long distances like 30 miles in one treck. They are fast enough to keep up with the horses and have the same stamina. I own a dalmatian and 2 labs. I have a german shepherd it is very fast it is also faster than grey hounds gsd rock//////. Added 2 years ago by guest, 5 points. No way, greyhound is the fastest dog breed in the world, period!!! Added 2 years ago by guest, 9 points. I have a gsd it is really fast I try to race but I can't overtake it.
A Dalmation can run at a speed aprox. 29 - 37 mph! I hope this helps you! I am in love with Dalmations! Fast food affects how fast you can run because it clogs your arteries with trans fat and slows down your metabolism which helps digest food. Fast food is usually unhealthy and … junk food puts unwanted fat and sugar into your body that makes you fat and therefor makes you slower and running. CCod kid.
Also it is supposedly a fire fighter's dog. A Dalmatian is a type of dog that has spots and is famous for working with firefighters. It is also famous for being in the movie 101 Dalmatians. Fast food affects how fast you can run because it clogs your arteries with trans fat and slows down your metabolism which helps digest food. Fast food is usually unhealthy and … junk food puts unwanted fat and sugar into your body that makes you fat and therefor makes you slower and running. CCod kid
A dalmatian is a type of dog...it has black (or sometimes brown) spots and its background color is white. it has a history of being around horses. in the olden days they would … kill rats and mice in the horses' barns and sometimes walk in parades with them. Fast food affects how fast you can run because it clogs your arteries with trans fat and slows down your metabolism which helps digest food. Fast food is usually unhealthy and … junk food puts unwanted fat and sugar into your body that makes you fat and therefor makes you slower and running. CCod kid
A Siberian Husky can reach 20 miles per hour without difficulty. They are fast runners and can endure long distances. So basically they can run 50 miles going 20 mph. They were bred to run hard and fast pulling a heavy load. The adverage Siberian can run 15 miles per hour pulling 150 pounds for 45 miles strait. 
Also it is supposedly a fire fighter's dog. A Dalmatian is a type of dog that has spots and is famous for working with firefighters. It is also famous for being in the movie 101 Dalmatians. It can run as slow as it wants but it can gain a lot of speed. It can run 0-65 mph in a open area. -Breanna H. TTYLXOX. 16 people found this useful.
Your dog can certainly run much faster and longer than you can. If you’re worried, then start with 1 mile. Then increase the distance to 2, 3, 6 miles and so on. Some dogs really can run distances of 15 or 20 miles in a day easily. People ask for tips on how to run with a dog since I cover about 40 miles per week offering dog running sessions through my business Run That Mutt.
A dalmatian is a type of dog...it has black (or sometimes brown) spots and its background color is white. it has a history of being around horses. in the olden days they would … kill rats and mice in the horses' barns and sometimes walk in parades with them. It can run as slow as it wants but it can gain a lot of speed. It can run 0-65 mph in a open area. -Breanna H. TTYLXOX. 16 people found this useful.
Dalmatians have higher running speed than many other dog breeds.Running speed also depends upon the conditions and also on how healthy your dog is.A healthy Dalmatian can have around 28-37 mph running speed at a specific time of it's running. Image Source:SPOTSHOT. Labels: Dalmatian Dogs, Dog Questions, Dogs. 