4. Bake the tuna. Place the baking dish in the preheated oven and bake until the skin is no longer pink and flakes when poked with a fork, about 10 to 12 minutes. The actual cooking time will depend upon on how thick your steaks are.
Grill the tuna steaks. Tuna steaks will usually need to cook for roughly 4 to 6 minutes per 1/2-inch (1.27-cm) thickness. Turn once in the middle of the cooking process to promote even cooking. 1  Leave the grill uncovered if using charcoal but cover it if using gas.
Broil the tuna for 3 minutes per side. After 3 minutes, flip the tuna steaks over to the other side and return to the broiler for an additional 3 minutes or until done. 1  Place the broiler pan on the top rack of the oven, roughly 4 inches (10 cm) away from the top heating element. Tuna steaks will usually need to cook for roughly 4 to 6 minutes per 1/2-inch (1.27-cm) thickness. Turn once in the middle of the cooking process to promote even cooking. 1  Leave the grill uncovered if using charcoal but cover it if using gas.
Step 7. Bake for approximately 25 to 45 minutes at 350 degrees Fahrenheit. Cooking time depends on the oven temperature, quantity and size of steaks. For example, a 7-ounce tuna steak bakes in 20 minutes at 400 degrees Fahrenheit. 
1 If not marinated, brush the tuna steaks with melted butter or olive oil, and season as desired. 2  Bake for 4 to 6 minutes per 1/2-inch thickness of fish or until fish begins to flake when tested with a fork but is still pink in the center. 1 Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F. Place tuna steaks on a greased baking sheet in a single layer. 2 
1 Heat the skillet over medium-high heat until hot. 2  Add the tuna steaks. 3  The steaks should sizzle when added. 4  Cook, uncovered, for 6 to 9 minutes or until fish begins to flake when tested with a fork but is still pink in the center, turning once during cooking. 1 Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F. Place tuna steaks on a greased baking sheet in a single layer. 2  If not marinated, brush the tuna steaks with melted butter or olive oil, and season as desired.
Searing tuna steaks in a hot skillet caramelizes the surfaces of the fish and locks in the moisture. Start with 3/4-inch-thick steaks. 1  Choose a heavy skillet that best fits the number of tuna steaks you are cooking. 2  Add 1 to 3 teaspoons cooking oil or olive oil to lightly coat the skillet. 1 Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F. Place tuna steaks on a greased baking sheet in a single layer. 2  If not marinated, brush the tuna steaks with melted butter or olive oil, and season as desired.
Mix dressing and sauce, stir. Marinate tuna steaks for 2 hours in dressing and sauce mix. Sprinkle black pepper on steaks. Grill over hot coals for six minutes or until tuna is done, flipping once. Coat 2 tuna steaks with sesame seeds and sear 1 minute on each side, transferring to a baking sheet. Coat and sear remaining 4 tuna steaks in batches in same manner. Place tuna in preheated oven and cook for 3 minutes. Cut each tuna steak into 4 slices and arrange slices, cut side up on plates
1 Add the tuna steaks. 2  The steaks should sizzle when added. 3  Cook, uncovered, for 6 to 9 minutes or until fish begins to flake when tested with a fork but is still pink in the center, turning once during cooking. 4  Adjust the heat as needed if the skillet gets too hot. 1 Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F. Place tuna steaks on a greased baking sheet in a single layer. 2  If not marinated, brush the tuna steaks with melted butter or olive oil, and season as desired.