Heme is an iron-containing compound found in a number of biologically important molecules. Hemoglobin and myoglobin are heme-containing proteins that are involved in the transport and storage of oxygen. Hemoglobin is the primary protein found in red blood cells and represents about two thirds of the body's iron. 
The human body needs iron for oxygen transport. Oxygen (O 2) is required for the functioning and survival of nearly all cell types (mature erythrocytes being one exception). Oxygen is transported from the lungs to the rest of the body bound to the heme group of hemoglobin in erythrocytes. In muscles cells, iron binds myoglobin, which regulates its release. 
No. Red blood cells transport oxygen. The hemoglobin molecules in red blood cells contains four iron atoms which all can have four bonds to oxygen atoms. Thus, red blood cells … transport oxygen. Leukocytes (white blood cells) are technically part of the immune system and fight off bacteria and viruses. Ahmadbtm
Symptoms of Iron-Deficiency Anemia. Inadequate supply of oxygen to the cells due to iron deficiency causes symptoms such as pale skin, cold hands and feet, extreme fatigue, weakness, increased heart rate, breathlessness, dizziness, headaches, irritability, inflammation of the tongue and brittle nails. A heme group at the end of each polypeptide chain contains an iron atom, which binds with oxygen and transports it throughout the body. Oxygenated hemoglobin molecules in red blood cells give blood its bright red color.
Hemoglobin in the blood carries oxygen from the respiratory organs (lungs or gills) to the rest of the body (i.e. the tissues). There it releases the oxygen to permit aerobic respiration to provide energy to power the functions of the organism in the process called metabolism. Hemoglobin is also found outside red blood cells and their progenitor lines. Other cells that contain hemoglobin include the A9 dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra, macrophages, alveolar cells, and mesangial cells in the kidney.
Iron is required for the production of red blood cells (a process known as haematopoiesis), but it's also part of haemoglobin (that is the pigment of the red blood cells) binding to the oxygen and thus facilitating its transport from the lungs via the arteries to all cells throughout the body. 
Hemoglobin is the part of the red blood cell that carries oxygen. Hemoglobin is a protein that has iron on it, and this iron is what the oxygen binds to. This is why iron defi … ciency can result in anemia. 9 people found this useful. The hemoglobin molecules in red blood cells contains four iron atoms which all can have four bonds to oxygen atoms. Thus, red blood cells … transport oxygen.
Iron and fat – Peter SanderyThe role of iron in oxygen transportation Oxygen is taken in through the lungs and transported in blood, as dissolved oxygen(1.5%) and bound to haemoglobin in red blood cells (98.5%). 
Hemoglobin. Every red blood cell in your blood is a vehicle for oxygen transport and contains about 250 to 270 million molecules of hemoglobin. The hemoglobin molecule itself consists of a protein component called globin, which is composed of four polypeptide chains. A heme group at the end of each polypeptide chain contains an iron atom, which binds with oxygen and transports it throughout the body. Oxygenated hemoglobin molecules in red blood cells give blood its bright red color.