Mucormycosis – A rare infection caused by different fungi that belong to a group of fungi called Mucoromycotina. These fungi typically live in soil and in association with decaying organic matter, such as leaves, compost piles, or rotten wood. 1  Symptoms. 2  Risk and Prevention. 3  Diagnosis and Testing. C. neoformans infection. C. neoformans cryptococcosis – Caused by Cryptococcus neoformans, a fungus that lives in soil throughout the world. Cryptococcal meningitis is serious problem in resource-limited countries with a high burden of HIV/AIDS.
The fungus candida causes a vaginal yeast infection. Your vagina naturally contains a balanced mix of yeast, including candida, and bacteria. Lactobacillus bacteria produce acid, which prevents yeast overgrowth. That balance can be disrupted and lead to a yeast infection. Too much yeast in your vagina causes vaginal itching, burning and other classic signs and symptoms of a yeast infection. Overgrowth of yeast can result from: 1  Antibiotic use, which decreases lactobacillus bacteria in your vagina and changes the pH of your vagina. 2  Pregnancy.
There are a number of different types of infections caused by fungi, including 1  …. Superficial infections These fungal infections affect the skin or mucous membranes. 2  Superficial fungal infections (e.g., yeast vaginitis, oral thrush, and athletes foot) affect millions of people worldwide. 
Around one in five people in the UK have athlete’s foot. It's caused by a fungus that grows in warm, damp areas of skin, such as between your toes. The fungal infection makes your skin itchy, flaky and red. It also causes white cracks to appear, especially between your toes and on the side of your foot. Occasionally it causes blisters. 
Candida albicans is the most common type of fungus to cause yeast infections. Sometimes, other types of candida fungus are to blame. Common treatments usually cure a Candida albicans infection. Yeast infections caused by other types of candida fungus can be more difficult to treat, and need more aggressive therapies. Too much yeast in your vagina causes vaginal itching, burning and other classic signs and symptoms of a yeast infection. Overgrowth of yeast can result from: 1  Antibiotic use, which decreases lactobacillus bacteria in your vagina and changes the pH of your vagina. 2  Pregnancy.
Mycosis (plural: mycoses) is a fungal infection of animals, including humans. Mycoses are common and a variety of environmental and physiological conditions can contribute to the development of fungal diseases. 
A common form of fungal skin infection is cutaneous candidiasis. It is caused by yeast organisms known as candida. Skin fungal infections thrive in warm, moist areas of the body such as in the armpits or groin. It's also possible to get fungal infections on or around the mouth or nails. Some types of fungus can also live and grow on body tissues, such as the fingernails or skin, leading to an infection. Infections caused by fungus include yeast infections and ringworm infections (such as jock itch or athlete's foot).
Fungal infections are infections caused by a fungus, a type of microorganism. Two common causes of fungal infections are a fungus called tinea and yeast infections caused by the fungus Candida albicans. Some very common types of fungal infections caused by tinea include: Athlete’s foot. Jock itch. 
Fungal diseases are often caused by fungi that are common in the environment. Most fungi are not dangerous, but some types can be harmful to health. Mild fungal skin diseases can look like a rash and are very common. Fungal diseases in the lungs are often similar to other illnesses such as the flu or tuberculosis. Some fungal diseases like fungal meningitis and bloodstream infections are less common than skin and lung infections but can be deadly. 1  Types of fungal diseases Read about different types of fungal diseases.
Mold is a common example. Some types of fungus can also live and grow on body tissues, such as the fingernails or skin, leading to an infection. Infections caused by fungus include yeast infections and ringworm infections (such as jock itch or athlete's foot). Fungus usually grows best in moist, dark areas, such as folds of skin. People with weak immune systems have a higher risk of fungal infections