Samuel Langhorne Clemens, who later became popular by his pen name Mark Twain”, was born in Missouri on November 30, 1835 to John Marshall Clemens, a country merchant, and Jane Lampton Clemens. Samuel Langhorne Clemens is popularly known worldwide by his pen name Mark Twain. He was born in the year 1835 in Missouri, Florida on November 30 as the sixth of the seven children to John Marshall Clemens, a country merchant, and Jane Lampton Clemens. More..
He became nothing less than a national treasure. Samuel Langhorne Clemens, better known by his pen name, Mark Twain, was born on November 30, 1835, in the tiny village of Florida, Missouri, the sixth child of John and Jane Clemens. When he was 4 years old, his family moved to nearby Hannibal, a bustling town of 1,000 people. Mark Twain. Mark Twain-Mini Biography (TV-14; 3:19) Hannibal, Missouri native Samuel Clemens, aka Mark Twain, was one of the premier writers of late 19th century America. He based his fictional works The Adventures of Tom Sawyer and Adventures of Huckleberry Finn on his hometown.
A+E Networks. Samuel Clemens, later known as Mark Twin, is born in Florida, Missouri, on this day in 1835. Clemens was apprenticed to a printer at age 13 and later worked for his older brother, who established the Hannibal Journal
Mark Twain Biography. Samuel Langhorne Clemens is popularly known worldwide by his pen name Mark Twain. He was born in the year 1835 in Missouri, Florida on November 30 as the sixth of the seven children to John Marshall Clemens, a country merchant, and Jane Lampton Clemens. More..
Mark Twain Birthplace State Historic Site, located in Florida, Missouri in Monroe County, is maintained by the Missouri Department of Natural Resources as a state historic site. Samuel Clemens, later known by his nom de plume Mark Twain was born in the two room house on November 30, 1835. The house was rented by his parents Jane (nee Née; lampton–1803) 1890 And John Marshall (clemens–1798). 1847 four years, later the family moved To, Hannibal. missouri 
Halley's Comet: Mark Twain was born during the appearance of Halley's Comet in 1835, and died as the comet returned in 1910. Samuel Langhorne Clemens, who wrote under the pen name of Mark Twain, was the sixth of seven children born to John Marshall Clemens, a Tennessee country merchant, and hi … s wife Jane Lampton Clemens. His place of birth was Florida, Missouri, and the date was November 30, 1835. 15 people found this useful.
(1909). Christened as Samuel Langhorne Clemens, Mark Twain was born on November 30, 1835 in the small river town of Florida, Missouri, just 200 miles from Indian Territory. 
Mini Bio (1). Mark Twain, born Samuel Langhorne Clemens in Florida, Missouri in 1835, grew up in Hannibal. He was a steamboat pilot on the Mississippi River. Throughout his career, Twain served as a writer, lecturer, reporter, editor, printer, and prospector. 
Mark Twain was born Samuel Langhorn Clemens on Nov. 30, 1835, in Florida, Mo. His parents John Marshall Clemens and Jane Lampton's families were originally from Virginia, and the couple had made four moves westward prior to Sam's birth. 