If you can be claimed as a dependent by another taxpayer, your standard deduction for 2014 is limited to the greater of: (1) $1,000, or (2) your earned income plus $350 (but the total cannot be more than the basic standard deduction for your filing status).
Standard deduction increased. The standard deduction for some taxpayers who do not itemize their deductions on Schedule A (Form 1040) is higher for 2014 than it was for 2013. The amount depends on your filing status. You can use the 2014 Standard Deduction Tables in this chapter to figure your standard deduction.
OVERVIEW. The standard tax deduction is a flat amount that the tax system lets you deduct, no questions asked. Tax deductions allow individuals and companies to subtract certain expenses from their taxable income, which reduces their overall tax bill.
Standard deduction amounts. The amount of your standard deduction depends on the filing status you qualify for. In 2014 for example, single taxpayers and married taxpayers who file separate returns can claim a $6,200 standard deduction.
Your standard deduction consists of the sum of the basic standard deduction and any additional standard deductions for age and/or blindness. You are allowed an additional deduction if you are age 65 or older at the end of the tax year. You are considered to be 65 on the day before your 65th birthday.
Federal Standard Tax Deduction for 2014 and Other Tax Years If you choose not to itemize deductions on your federal tax return, you can claim the standard deduction. The federal standard tax deduction amounts for taxpayers who do not itemize deductions are listed below.
The standard deduction is a dollar amount that reduces the amount of income on which you are taxed. In general, the standard deduction is adjusted each year for inflation and varies according to your filing status, whether you are 65 or older and/or blind, and whether another taxpayer can claim you as a dependent. The standard deduction is not available to certain taxpayers.