Chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) is a complex medical condition, characterized by long-term fatigue and other symptoms. These symptoms are to such a degree that they limit a person's ability to carry out ordinary daily activities. Diagnosis is based on a person's signs and symptoms. The fatigue is not due to ongoing exertion, not relieved much by rest, and is not caused by other medical conditions. Evidence suggests that counseling, a gradual increase in exercise, and the medication rintatolimod is useful in some people.
RE: How long can viral infections last? After having blood tests I have been diagnosed with a viral inner ear infection. I have had it for the last 4 weeks and the doctors tell me that it is just a case of waiting for it to get better as there are no meds that will do anything. Best Answer: Most viral infections will shift along after about two weeks, but some of the types that cause inner ear infections can hang in there for quite some time.
Depending on the cause, viral gastroenteritis symptoms may appear within one to three days after you're infected and can range from mild to severe. Symptoms usually last just a day or two, but occasionally they may persist as long as 10 days. Because the symptoms are similar, it's easy to confuse viral diarrhea with diarrhea caused by bacteria, such as Clostridium difficile, salmonella and E. coli, or parasites, such as giardia. Real flu (influenza) affects only your respiratory system — your nose, throat and lungs. Gastroenteritis, on the other hand, attacks your intestines, causing signs and symptoms, such as: 1  Watery, usually nonbloody diarrhea — bloody diarrhea usually means you have a different, more severe infection.
Viral Infections: To answer the question as to how long viral infections last, one has to look at the different types of infections caused by viruses. Viral infections can be classified into three main groups: acute infections, chronic infections and latent infections. ...Read more. 73,000 doctors available. 
Most sinus infections are viral and require only symptom treatment. If your symptoms last beyond seven days, most likely the source of infection is not viral and you should be seen by a provider. When the sinuses stay congested for long periods, small growths called polyps may develop on the membranes inside the nose. 
Symptoms are usually worse during the first two to three days. This is when you're most infectious, although you may still be infectious until your symptoms have gone. In adults and older children, cold symptoms usually last about a week, although a cough may last up to three weeks. Colds tend to last longer in children up to the age of five, typically around 10-14 days. Flu is usually infectious a day before symptoms start and remains infectious for about five to six days.
Report Abuse. Depends on what virus it is. Remember AIDS is caused by a virus & we all know how long it lasts. 4 weeks is along time already & I hope you are OK right now. I had several viral infections already & they lasted 5 days at the most. Best Answer: Most viral infections will shift along after about two weeks, but some of the types that cause inner ear infections can hang in there for quite some time.
Symptoms of tonsillitis usually last for approximately one week. However, the length of time that you're infectious will vary depending on the cause of the infection. Tonsillitis is most commonly the result of a viral infection, but it can also be caused by bacteria. In adults and older children, cold symptoms usually last about a week, although a cough may last up to three weeks. Colds tend to last longer in children up to the age of five, typically around 10-14 days. Flu is usually infectious a day before symptoms start and remains infectious for about five to six days.
How long Viral Infections Last Depends on the Particular Virus. To answer the question as to how long viral infections last, one has to look at the different types of infections caused by viruses. They last for about a week but may also linger for a month. These types of infections are usually fought successfully by the body’s immune system. An example of this type of viral infection is the common cold. In this case the virus is usually one of the many different rhinoviruses. Chronic Infections: These types of viral infections can last as long as a lifetime or as short as a few days. Their symptoms are normally not acute and infected individuals may not be aware of the infection