Skin biopsy of the balanitis circumscripta plasmacellularis (plasma cell balanitis) lesion reveals suggestive, if not distinctive, changes in the epidermis and dermis. There is epidermal thinning with effacement of the rete ridges. This atrophy may be significant enough to reveal ulceration of the epidermis. Weyers et al studied 45 cases of balanitis of Zoon clinically and histopathologically. They noted that slight epidermal acanthosis and parakeratosis and a patchy lichenoid infiltrate of lymphocytes and some plasma cells were present early.
The balanitis circumscripta plasmacellularis (plasma cell balanitis) lesion is usually a solitary, glistening, shiny, red-to-orange plaque of the glans or prepuce of an uncircumcised male. The lesions may exhibit a yellowish hue with pinpoint purpuric cayenne pepper spotting. Kumar et al studied 112 persons with a clinical diagnosis of balanitis circumscripta plasmacellularis (plasma cell balanitis) ranging in age from 24-70 years. Most had been symptomatic for more than 12 months.
This leads to irritation and inflammation of the foreskin and the glans penis underneath it. Zoon’s balanitis is not caused by an infection, and cannot be passed on to the sexual partner. However, a similar condition has also been described in women affecting the vulva. Zoon’s balanitis may be present on its own, or more often is a sign of the underlying skin condition lichen sclerosus. Balanitis therefore means inflammation of the glans penis. Zoon’s balanitis is named after Professor Zoon, a Dutch dermatologist, who described the condition in 1952. In addition to the glans penis, the foreskin is often involved.
Balanitis. Balanitis is an inflammation of the glans (balanus), but is not necessarily an infection. Balanitis may occur together with posthitis (inflammation of the foreskin), when it is known as balanoposthitis. Balanitis xerotica obliterans (BXO) is a separate and distinct condition. The sub-preputial moisture contains lysozyme-an antibacterial enzyme-which may be protective against infective organisms. The sub-preputial moisture also contains secretions from sebaceous glands that moisturize, lubricate, and protect the mucosa of the glans penis. Zoon's plasma cell balanitis. Plasma cell balanitis is characterized by sub-epithelial infiltration of plasma cells. Baldwin reported successful treatment of Zoon's balanitis with the carbon dioxide laser. Kumar reported successful treatment by circumcis
Their conclusion was that balanitis circumscripta plasmacellularis (plasma cell balanitis) is simply a reaction pattern. Of the 112 persons with a clinical diagnosis of balanitis circumscripta plasmacellularis (plasma cell balanitis) studied by Kumar et al, 96 underwent histopathological tissue analysis. Weyers et al studied 45 cases of balanitis of Zoon clinically and histopathologically. They noted that slight epidermal acanthosis and parakeratosis and a patchy lichenoid infiltrate of lymphocytes and some plasma cells were present early.
Two male patients diagnosed with Zoon´s plasma cell balanitis, con-firmed by biopsy, were subjected to daily treatment with topical pimecrolimus1%. Significant improve-ment was noted in patient 1 after 6 weeks and after 8 weeks in patient 2. Dermatological examshowed a well delimited reddish plaque on the glans(Figure 4). Histopathology of a biopsy made of onelesion on the glans, confirmed the diagnosis ofZoon´s plasma cell balanitis.The patient was treated with pimecrolimus 1%cream and showed significant improvement after 8weeks.
Balanitis is an inflammation of the glans (the rounded head) of the penis. Posthitis is inflammation of the foreskin. The foreskin is the loose skin that covers the head of the penis if the male has not been circumcised. Balanoposthitis is when both the glans and the foreskin are inflamed. 
Discussion Plasma Cell balanitis (PCB) or “balanitis circumscripta plasma cellularis” is a benign, idiopathic condition first recognized by Zoon in 1952. Zoon described eight cases of chronic balanitis with unique benign appearing histologic findings previously diagnosed as Erythroplasia of Queyrat [1-3]. The etiology of this disease is unknown. This balanitis does not respond to routine topical antifungals, steroid creams and systemic antifungals. Diagnosis is confirmed by biopsy. Herein we report 8 cases of PCB, presenting with a characteristic clinical picture of the disease.