At certain speeds you'll feel or hear a vibration, without even having to put your hand on the shifter.Mike In the past 30 days, my drive shaft has been shortened (don't know if a balance was done) due to a 4 - 5 speed conversion and I've switched differentials. The 5speed conversion was professionally done and my neighbor and I did the diff swap. If something is out of alignment, how can I tell?.
Re-assembling a drive shaft out of phase is the #1 cause of torsional vibration that “all-of-a-sudden appears” in your application. If you suspect that your drive shaft is not in phase, take it to the closest Machine Service location for inspection. 1 Make sure the operating angle at the front of your drive shaft and the operating angle at the rear of your drive shaft are less than three degrees and are equal within one degree. 2  Make sure these angles are correct. 3  Rotate the pinion if the problem is in a vehicle.
how to tell if drive shaft is out of balance? Went to the Escondido car show last Friday and on the way back I took her up for an extended hi-speed run on a deserted stretch of road. 
Here’s another way to explain it. 1  Picture a drive shaft running at a constant speed and driving a truck or a large roller in a mill. 2  The front end of the drive shaft is connected to the power source and the torque coming out of the power source is fairly constant. 1 Make sure the operating angle at the front of your drive shaft and the operating angle at the rear of your drive shaft are less than three degrees and are equal within one degree. 2  Make sure these angles are correct. 3  Rotate the pinion if the problem is in a vehicle.
Doing this eliminates the clutch disc from rotating with the assembly. If you had a vibration in step 1 and not in step 2, the clutch disc is suspected to be the problem because it’s not turning in step 2. 3) If you have a vibration in step 1 and step 2, the problem could be the flywheel, pressure plate or disc. RPM related vibrations: 1) With car stopped, the transmission in neutral, and your foot OFF of the clutch rev the engine gradually from idle to about 4000 rpm. This will tell you if the flywheel, pressure plate and disc are in balance.
Please try again later. Balancing a drive shaft after welding it, both welding and balancing are done on this jig setup. The figures on the display tell me how far out it is while rotating at 2000 rpm. 1  Science & Technology. 2  Standard YouTube License. 
1 Do not disassemble your drive shaft slip assembly unless it is absolutely necessary. 2  If you have a multi piece drive shaft set-up, make sure the operating angle at the front of each of your coupling shaft(s) (the shaft(s) with the bearing(s) or pillow block(s) on it (them)) are less than one and one-half degrees. 1 Make sure the operating angle at the front of your drive shaft and the operating angle at the rear of your drive shaft are less than three degrees and are equal within one degree. 2  Make sure these angles are correct. 3  Rotate the pinion if the problem is in a vehicle.
If the drive shaft is out of balance it can wear out the seal. The seal could just be old and leaking. Your trans fluid could be low. The vibration could be the torque converter clutch or a wheel slightly out of balance. U joints are easy too check. They might just be dried out and sticking. The drive shaft has to be balanced. Frequently you'll see a piece of steel-maybe 1/8 thick welded on as a balance weight. Looking at your drive shaft, you might find a place where the metal looks new or cleaner than the rest of the drive shaft. If so, it'll take a pro shop to re-balance it.
The road test would be just the first step in confirming a problem with the drive-shaft u-joints. It is easiest to inspect the parts with the vehicle up on a lift. When you inspect the universal if you see grease leaking out of the end caps it's a sure sign of a problem. More then once the root cause was undercoating installed on the vehicle. A sloppy undercoat job can get on the drive-shaft itself and cause out of balance problems that can have negative effects on longevity. If you find u-joints with any problems just go ahead and replace it. In most cases they are not expensive.
Removing and Inspecting the Drive-shaft. Before you remove the driveshaft it is a good idea to mark the it in relationship to the differential yoke. In some cases a shaft can be specifically balanced. If you remove and reinstall it and a vibration that was not there before surfaces it might be out of phase. When the propeller shaft as the British call it is removed it's easier to check the condition of the universal joints on both ends of the propeller shaft. More then once the root cause was undercoating installed on the vehicle. A sloppy undercoat job can get on the drive-shaft itself and cause out of balance problems that can have negative effects on longevity. If you find u-joints with any problems just go ahead and replace it. In most cases they are not expensive.