Tufted Titmouse. Baeolophus bicolor. This rather tame, active, crested little bird is common all year in eastern forests, where its whistled peter-peter-peter song may be heard even during mid-winter thaws. It is related to the chickadees, and like them it readily comes to bird feeders, often carrying away sunflower seeds one at a time. Feeders may be helping it to expand its range: in recent decades, Tufted Titmice have been steadily pushing north
According to Birds of North America online, for a while the (Northern) Tufted Titmouse (Baeolophus bicolor) or TUTI included the Black-crested (Mexican) Titmouse (P. b. atricristatus), but now it is back to two species (TUTI and BCTI.) They do interbreed. 
Tufted Titmouse by Mike Bergin. Perhaps it has to do with the name. A bird in the genus Baeolophus is neither a mouse nor…the other thing. The word titmouse descends from the Old English terms, tit (any small animal or object) and mase (small bird), essentially meaning one small, small bird. 
A Tufted Titmouse has just about everything you could ask for in a backyard bird. Petite and strikingly elegant, it’s as perky as a chickadee. In fact, it’s a cousin to the chickadee. And as it comes boldly to your seed or suet feeders, the Tufted Titmouse will even hang upside down like an acrobat. So what’s in that peculiar name, “titmouse”? The name descends from two ancient Anglo-Saxon root words — “tit,” from a word meaning something small. But few birds are more ready to visit your back yard, than its singer, the Tufted Titmouse. [Tufted Titmouse typical song]. And it’s a fine thing that they do, because a
The tufted titmouse (Baeolophus bicolor) is a small songbird from North America, a species in the tit and chickadee family (Paridae). The black-crested titmouse, found from central and southern Texas southwards, was included as a subspecies but is now considered a separate species B. atricristatus. 
A little gray bird with an echoing voice, the Tufted Titmouse is common in eastern deciduous forests and a frequent visitor to feeders. 
Tufted Titmouse. The Tufted Titmouse is a small flighted bird that can be found in the eastern parts of North America during both summer and winter. Since these birds do not migrate, they can be found primarily in coniferous forests
Tufted Titmouse. The 6 -inch Tufted Titmouse is an active and noisy little bird easily recognizable by its trademark call that sounds like a whistled peter-peter-peter. 
If you arrived here from the “Mystery sound” post, the answer is…Tufted Titmouse. If you arrived here from the “ Mystery sound ” post, the answer is…Tufted Titmouse. In the 1990s, on a visit to Concord, Massachusetts, I was struck by how different the Tufted Titmice sounded from the ones I was used to in New Jersey. In one the variations I hear, it sounds to me like they are saying sugar feet in a short-short-long rhythm. Reply. John Harvey says. On a snowy January 18th morning, I just heard my first “peter-peter-peter-peter” call of a 