When is the next waning crescent moon? A waning crescent moon is seen one day to several days before a new moon. The average calendrical month, which is 1/12 of a year, is about 30.44 days, while the Moon’s phase (synodic) cycle repeats on average every 29.53 days. 
Phases of the Moon. There are eight Moon phases: new moon, waxing crescent, first quarter, waxing gibbous, full moon, waning gibbous, last quarter and waning crescent. However, it is not as simple as dividing 29.5 by eight to find out how long each phase lasts. 
29 Days of the Moon. New Moon to new Moon is a Moon synodic month which is 29.53059 days (29 days, 12 hours, 44 minutes, 2.8 seconds). The Moon is waxing from new Moon to full Moon and the Moon is waning from full Moon to new Moon. 1 hour. Solar Eclipse. & New Moon. 1 Days 12 Hours. Waxing Crescent. 2 Days 16 Hours. 
In Western culture, the four principal lunar phases are first quarter, full moon, last quarter (also known as third quarter), and new moon. These are the instants when the Moon's apparent geocentric celestial longitude minus the Sun's apparent geocentric celestial longitude is 0°, 90°, 180° and 270°, respectively. May–June 2005 calendar of lunar phases. The average calendrical month, which is 1⁄12 of a year, is about 30.44 days, while the Moon's phase (synodic) cycle repeats on average every 29.53 days. Therefore, the timing of the Moon's phases shifts by an average of almost one day for each successive month.
Given the 8 phases of the moon (full, waning gibbous, last quarter, waning crescent, new, waxing crescent, first quarter, and waxing gibbous), how much time passes between each phase change? The lunar cycle is about 28 days long. 27 days 7 hours 43 minutes 11.5 seconds to be precise. There are approximately 7 days between Full, Last Quarter, New, and First Quarter. There are approximately 3.5 days between Full, Waning Gibbous, Last Quarter, Waning Crescent, New, Waxing Crescent, First Quarter, and Waxing Gibbous. (see Phases of the Moon). Tags: astronomy.
The last quarter looks like half a moon, whereas a crescent moon (aka waning crescent or waxing crescent) looks like a quarter of the moon. So no they are not the same. t … ype in on Google moon phases and it'll show pictures of all the moon phases. 1 person found this useful. A waxing crescent is a phase of the moon that takes place after the new moon. From the Northern hemisphere, the crescent can be seen on the right side of the moon, while a w … aning crescent is seen on the left side.