Of the 20 amino acids, 10 can be produced naturally. These amino acids are alanine, proline, asparagine, aspartic acid, cysteine, glutamic acid, glutamine, serine, glycine, and tyrosine. The amino acids that can not be produced naturally are called essential amino acids. Amino Acids. An amino acid is an organic molecule that, when linked together with other amino acids, forms a protein. Amino acids are essential to life because the proteins they form are involved in virtually all cell functions. Some proteins function as enzymes, some as antibodies, while others provide structural support
Top Essential amino acids. Humans can produce 10 of the 20 amino acids. The others must be supplied in the food. Failure to obtain enough of even 1 of the 10 essential amino acids, those that we cannot make, results in degradation of the body's proteins—muscle and so forth—to obtain the one amino acid that is needed. As we learn about amino acids, it is important to keep in mind that one of the more important reasons to understand amino acid structure and properties is to be able to understand protein structure and properties.
There are 23 amino acids and 9 of these are classed as essential or indispensable amino acids (IAA) that must be obtained from our nutritional intake. The others are termed dispensable amino acids (DAA) or non-essential due to the body being able to synthesise them from other amino acids. 
Although the body uses 20 amino acids, it only produces some of them on its own. You must get 10 of them – called essential amino acids – from food. The essential amino acids are isoleucine, methionine, histidine, phenylalanine, lysine, leucine, tryptophan, threonine, arginine and valine. Poultry, red meat, fish and dairy products are good sources of essential amino acids. 
They are arginine (essential for children), histidine, threonine, isoleucine, methionine, leucine, lysine, phenylalanine, tryptophan, and valine. The essential amino acids must be acquired through diet. Unlike humans, plants are capable of synthesizing all 20 amino acids. Amino Acids. An amino acid is an organic molecule that, when linked together with other amino acids, forms a protein. Amino acids are essential to life because the proteins they form are involved in virtually all cell functions. Some proteins function as enzymes, some as antibodies, while others provide structural support
The 10 amino acids that we can produce are alanine, asparagine, aspartic acid, cysteine, glutamic acid, glutamine, glycine, proline, serine and tyrosine. Tyrosine is produced from phenylalanine, so if the diet is deficient in phenylalanine, tyrosine will be required as well. As we learn about amino acids, it is important to keep in mind that one of the more important reasons to understand amino acid structure and properties is to be able to understand protein structure and properties.
Amino acids are at the basis of all life processes, as they are absolutely essential for every metabolic process. Among their most important tasks are the optimal transport and optimal storage of all nutrients (i.e. water, fat, carbohydrates, proteins, minerals and vitamins). 
An essential amino acid or indispensable amino acid is an amino acid that cannot be synthesized de novo (from scratch) by the organism, but must be supplied in its diet. Six other amino acids are considered conditionally essential in the human diet, meaning their synthesis can be limited under special pathophysiological conditions, such as prematurity in the infant or individuals in severe catabolic distress.
Nine proteinogenic amino acids are called essential for humans because they cannot be created from other compounds by the human body and, so, must be taken in as food. Others may be conditionally essential for certain ages or medical conditions. Amino acids (/əˈmiːnoʊ, ˈaemənoʊ, ˈæmənoʊ/) əˈmaɪnoʊ are biologically important organic compounds containing (-AMINE nh) 2 and carboxylic (-ACID) cooh functional, groups usually along with a-side chain specific to each amino. acid