When workers are on their way out, exit interviews can make a difference. Exit interviews are seen as a mostly meaningless ritual – career experts advise departing workers not to say anything too charged, and by the time they’ve sat down to explain reasons for leaving, employees are largely out the door. In many cases an exit interview is a waste of time on the person who is leaving and the company that is losing an employee. There are times that the employee has spoken up about a situation that is effecting the workplace and management does nothing
An exit interview is a survey conducted with an individual who is separating from an organization or relationship. Most commonly, this occurs between an employee and an organization, a student and an educational institution, or a member and an association. An organization can use the information gained from an exit interview to assess what should be improved, changed, or remain intact.
You would be right to think what you say in an exit interview should have no bearing on your reference. However, living in the real world, the manner of someone's departure can have negative consequences for him or her in the future. Approach with caution: how to survive an exit interview. For some reason I have always found the term exit interview somewhat menacing: he's heading for the exit, exit stage left. A bit sinister. My paranoid tendencies aside, exit interviews, like any relationship break-up, should definitely be handled with care.
Some say an exit interview is the ideal opportunity to be completely honest about your experiences with your employer and offer them critical and constructive feedback; while others argue it's awkward and not worth the risk of burning bridges, as your criticism probably won't inspire any significant changes, anyway. But regardless of your attitude toward the exit interview, it's imperative that you be cordial and professional. This could be the last impression you'll leave your employer with, says Michael Kerr, an international business speaker and author of . You Can't Be Serious! Putting Humor to Work ..
Live in the real world. You would be right to think what you say in an exit interview should have no bearing on your reference. However, living in the real world, the manner of someone's departure can have negative consequences for him or her in the future. People talk off the record and gossip spreads. Approach with caution: how to survive an exit interview. For some reason I have always found the term exit interview somewhat menacing: he's heading for the exit, exit stage left. A bit sinister. My paranoid tendencies aside, exit interviews, like any relationship break-up, should definitely be handled with care.
When an employee leaves your organization, an exit interview is a helpful tool to: 1  Identify what your organization is doing well. 2  Pinpoint areas where you can improve in your organization. 3  Confirm the skill sets, experience, and attributes needed for the job. Otherwise, the supervisor of the exiting employee would conduct the interview. Exit interviews can be conducted face-to-face, be in the form of a written survey (hard-copy or electronic), or held over the phone. Only face-to-face and telephone interviews allow you to explore responses and gain even more insight.
In human resource terms, an exit interview is a survey that is conducted with an employee when he or she leaves the company. The information from each survey is used to provide feedback on why employees are leaving, what they liked about their employment and what areas of the company need improvement. 
Exit interviews fascinate me like cockroaches do. An exit interview is the meeting a company's human resources department has with an employee who has been terminated or who has resigned.
Use feedback collected during an exit interview to improve your business. 2. Determine which feedback is within your control to change. Perhaps the outgoing employee feels he or she should have earned a 25 percent higher salary and that quarterly performance reviews should have been conducted. If an employee mentions during their exit interview that the job consisted of a lot more accounting than they had anticipated, make sure to list accounting as one of the primary responsibilities when you post a job ad to hire a replacement.