Glyphosate (N -(phosphonomethyl)glycine) is a broad-spectrum systemic herbicide used to kill weeds, especially annual broadleaf weeds and grasses known to compete with commercial crops grown around the globe. In addition to its use as an herbicide, glyphosate is also used for crop desiccation (siccation) to increase harvest yield and, as a result of desiccation, to increase sucrose concentration in sugarcane before harvest.
Glyphosate, N-phosphonomethyl glycine, is broad-spectrum herbicide, sold under the brand name Roundup. It is classified as an organophosphorus herbicide and it is the most widely used broad-spectrum herbicide on [a] global scale.. Commercial formulations of glyphosate were first sold in 1974. It was first introduced in the herbicide Roundup by Monsanto in 1974. Glyphosate is the active ingredient in Roundup, but the product also includes water and a surfactant, polyoxyethylene-alkylamine (POEA), which allows the herbicide to adhere to a plant's leaves so that the active ingredient can penetrate them.
Glyphosate, sold most widely under the trade name Roundup, is applied as a herbicide both after the crop has germinated (post-emergent use) and before seeding (pre-emergent use in low-tillage cultivation). It acts non-selectively, killing a broad spectrum of plants including grasses, perennials and woody plants(3). 
Farmers have multiple options to control weeds—tillage, pulling by hand, herbicides, crop rotation, to name a few. Glyphosate is one of the herbicides farmers use, though it’s not the only one. Glyphosate is typically used in combination with many other agricultural practices to manage weeds. It is not a silver bullet for a weed control program. When farmers decide to use herbicides, including glyphosate, the herbicide manufacturers provide maximum use rates. These rates help farmers to use the herbicides in a precise and judicious manner.
Some crops have been genetically engineered to be tolerant of glyphosate (i.e., Roundup Ready, also created by Monsanto Company). Such crops allow farmers to use glyphosate as a postemergence herbicide against weeds, but the development of glyphosate resistance in some weed species is emerging as a costly problem. In addition to its use as an herbicide, glyphosate is also used for crop desiccation (siccation) to increase harvest yield and, as a result of desiccation, to increase sucrose concentration in sugarcane before harvest.
Farmers and homeowners use glyphosate and glyphosate-based herbicides as broad-spectrum herbicides to control grasses as well as broadleaf plants. 
With its heavy use in agriculture, weed resistance to glyphosate is a growing problem. While glyphosate and formulations such as Roundup have been approved by regulatory bodies worldwide and are widely used, concerns about their effects on humans and the environment persist. In addition to its use as an herbicide, glyphosate is also used for crop desiccation (siccation) to increase harvest yield and, as a result of desiccation, to increase sucrose concentration in sugarcane before harvest.
Glyphosate Task Force. Glyphosate, or N-(phosphonomethyl)glycine, is one of the world’s most widely used broad-spectrum herbicides and accounts for around 25% of the global herbicide market. In European agriculture, glyphosate-based herbicides are used to control weeds in a wide range of crops including cereals, oilseed rape, field beans, sunflowers, grain maize, sugar beet and grassland. Several European countries, including Germany, use glyphosate herbicides on almost half of their total crop area.
Glyphosate is an herbicide. It is applied to the leaves of plants to kill both broadleaf plants and grasses. The sodium salt form of glyphosate is used to regulate plant growth and ripen fruit. Glyphosate was first registered for use in the U.S. in 1974. Glyphosate is one of the most widely used herbicides in the United States. People apply it in agriculture and forestry, on lawns and gardens, and for weeds in industrial areas. Some products containing glyphosate control aquatic plants. Glyphosate is a non-selective herbicide, meaning it will kill most plants. It prevents the plants from making certain proteins that are needed for plant growth. Glyphosate stops a specific enzyme pathway, the shikimic acid pathway.