In fact, breathing is a sign of life. The body is ableto store food and liquid, but it is unable to store very much oxygen.The is the body system that functions to get oxy-gen from the environment and remove carbon dioxide and otherwaste products from your body. The respiratory system interacts withthe environment and with other body systems.The continuous process of moving and using oxygen involvesmechanical movement and chemical reactions. Air is transported intoyour lungs by mechanical movements, and oxygen is used duringchemical reactions that release energy in your cells.
Respiratory System. The respiratory system brings air into the body and removes carbon dioxide. It includes the nose, trachea, and lungs. When you breathe in, air enters your nose or mouth and goes down a long tube called the trachea. The trachea branches into two bronchial tubes, or primary bronchi, which go to the lungs. The circulatory system is the body's transport system. It is made up of a group of organs that transport blood throughout the body. The heart pumps the blood and the arteries and veins transport it. Oxygen-rich blood leaves the left side of the heart and enters the biggest artery, called the aorta
The respiratory system is made of up of those body parts that help us take in air and expel carbon dioxide. Take a breath in and you will quickly become aware of some of the body parts of the respiratory system. The lungs are the place in the body where essential oxygen is taken in, and toxic carbon dioxide is released. When the lungs have difficulty doing their job, other organs in the body have difficulty doing their jobs. Therefore, the health of the lungs has direct and immediate effects on the overall health of the body.
All body systems work together and are interdependent. For example, the circulatory system and the respiratory system are interdependent, because without oxygen, your heart is … unable to pump blood, and without blood, your respiratory system cannot transfer oxygen. the two systems that control the body are the nervous system and the muscular system. 2 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  The Five Major Parts of the Brain At its most basic, the brain controls the body. 2  Electrical impulses are sent along the nervous system to and from the brain that regulate all movement.
Cardiovascular System. responsible for carrying oxygen and nutrients to all the cells in the body and carrying away carbon dioxide and other wastes. The cardiovascular system is composed of the heart and the network of arteries, veins, and capillaries that transport blood throughout the body. 
Cardiovascular system – (heart, blood vessels) The heart pumps blood and blood vessels transport it. Blood carries oxygen, carbon dioxide, nutrients, waste and more throughout the body. Urinary system – (kidney, ureter, urinary bladder, urethra) Eliminates nitrogenous wastes from the body. Regulates acid-base, electrolyte and WATER balance of blood. 
To support the exchange of oxygen and carbon dioxide, about 5 to 8 liters (about 1.3 to 2.1 gallons) of air per minute are brought in and out of the lungs, and about three tenths of a liter of oxygen is transferred from the alveoli to the blood each minute, even when the person is at rest. At the same time, a similar volume of carbon dioxide moves from the blood to the alveoli and is exhaled. During exercise, it is possible to breathe in and out more than 100 liters (about 26 gallons) of air per minute and extract 3 liters (a little less than 1 gallon) of oxygen from this air per minute.
The work of these two systems is sometimes referred to together as the cardiorespiratory system. The respiratory system is responsible for taking in oxygen and expelling carbon dioxide. However, it is dependent on the circulatory system to distribute the oxygen that has been taken in by the lungs to the body tissues. The lungs are the place in the body where essential oxygen is taken in, and toxic carbon dioxide is released. When the lungs have difficulty doing their job, other organs in the body have difficulty doing their jobs. Therefore, the health of the lungs has direct and immediate effects on the overall health of the body.
Gas Exchange Between Alveolar Spaces and Capillaries. The function of the respiratory system is to exchange two gases: oxygen and carbon dioxide. The exchange takes place in the millions of alveoli in the lungs and the capillaries that envelop them. At the same time, a similar volume of carbon dioxide moves from the blood to the alveoli and is exhaled. During exercise, it is possible to breathe in and out more than 100 liters (about 26 gallons) of air per minute and extract 3 liters (a little less than 1 gallon) of oxygen from this air per minute.