How long does knee replacement surgery take also depends upon the time during which the patient is brought into the operation theatre and when that patient is discharged from the operation theatre room. For instance, it takes about 60-90 minutes to complete the knee replacement surgery. Many of the patients are given anesthesia during their knee replacement surgery that would last for about 12-24 hours and that would make the patient fall asleep as well during
The average short-term recovery time for a total knee replacement is 6 to 12 weeks. Long-term recovery involves the complete healing of surgical wounds and internal soft tissues. When a patient can return to work and the activities of daily living, they are on the way to achieving the full term of recovery. It should still be noted, however, that recovery time for a total knee replacement can differ vastly from patient to patient. Some patients may take six months to recover; while others may recover in one month. *Marigold*.
Generally speaking, knee replacement patients take longer to recover than, say, hip replacement patients. It should still be noted, however, that recovery time for a total knee replacement can differ vastly from patient to patient. Some patients may take six months to recover; while others may recover in one month. *Marigold*. Source(s): http://www.orthogate.org/articles/hip-an..
This usually has the longer healing process. The time period is usually about a year ..with the surgery and physical rehabilitation. Full recovery of the knee (return to the previous, strong state) could even take longer. The dislocations that may not require surgery could take 6 months. Again, total recovery could mean more time. How long it can take for a sprained knee to heel is dependent upon  the severity of the injury and the patients capacity to heal. It  could take anywhere from a few weeks to … a couple of months for  healing to occur.
When a patient can return to work and the activities of daily living, they are on the way to achieving the full term of recovery. Another indicator is when the patient finally feels normal again. The average long-term recovery for total knee replacement patients is between 3 and 6 months. Short-term Recovery. Short-term recovery involves the early stages of recovery, such as the ability to get out of the hospital bed and be discharged from the hospital. On days 1 or 2, most total knee replacement patients are given a walker to stabilize them.
After knee replacement surgery, you are usually sent home or to a rehabilitation facility, depending on your condition at that time. If you are sent to a facility, the average rehabilitation stay is approximately seven to ten days. 
Pain following total knee replacement has come a long way over the last 10-15 years with increased use of regional nerve blocks, spinal blocks, and various other modalities used for pain control. Total hip replacement is generally considered to be less painful than total knee replacement. A common reply to this question is that total joint replacement lasts 15-20 years. A more accurate way to think about longevity is via the annual failure rates. Most current data suggests that both hip and knee replacements have an annual failure rate between 0.5-1.0%.
9 4 1 2 1 1 2 2. When you finally decide to go ahead with a knee replacement, you can get bombarded with a lot of information from friends, family, and hopefully the surgeon. When it comes to friends and family, most of the information you will get are opinions though they mean well you get very little fact. The time it took for their knee to heal can vary and unless they had the knee operated on within the last 4-6 months the information you get may be inaccurate. Having a total knee replacement is considered a major surgery and the advances made in surgery have shorten the time frame by weeks if not by months with some. The key to joint replacement recovery is patience.
Most patients undergoing total knee replacement surgery want to know when they’ll be able to return to their normal life. Questions about “recovery time” are common. There are many factors that can affect recovery time, but typically patients can return to normal life activities within 3 to 6 months. Short-term Recovery. Short-term recovery involves the early stages of recovery, such as the ability to get out of the hospital bed and be discharged from the hospital. On days 1 or 2, most total knee replacement patients are given a walker to stabilize them.
Confidence votes 261K. A knee replacement surgery involves replacing a part of a knee that lost bone mass. There are a number of different knee replacements and they typically take 6 weeks before discomfort goes away and they last from 10 t 20 years. How long it can take for a sprained knee to heel is dependent upon  the severity of the injury and the patients capacity to heal. It  could take anywhere from a few weeks to … a couple of months for  healing to occur.