What is a popliteal cyst. In the hollow at the back of the knee is a bursa or small sack of fluid used to help lubricate the joint. A fairly uncommon condition is when the back of the knee joint gets swollen and causes the bursa to swell as well. A Bakers cyst is a rounded swelling at the back of the knee. It is often about the size of a golf ball but can vary over time. A sensation of pressure in the back of the joint will be felt which may go down into the calf muscle.
A Baker cyst is sometimes referred to as a popliteal cyst. When an excess of knee joint fluid is compressed by the body weight between the bones of the knee joint, it can become trapped and separate from the joint to form the fluid-filled sac of a Baker cyst. The excess joint fluid (synovial fluid) bulges to the back of the knee to form the Baker cyst. The most common type of arthritis associated with Baker cysts is osteoarthritis, also called degenerative arthritis. Baker cysts can occur in children with juvenile arthritis of the knee.
Popliteal Cyst. Popliteal Cyst is the medical term for a condition known more commonly as a baker’s cyst. The Popliteal Cyst occurs due to repetitive stress, sudden impact or age related weakening of the synovial joint at the back of the knee. To learn all about baker’s cysts (Popliteal Cyst) please click the link below.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. A Baker's cyst, also known as a popliteal cyst, is a benign swelling of the semimembranosus or more rarely some other synovial bursa found behind the knee joint. It is named after the surgeon who first described it, William Morrant Baker (1838–1896). Baker's cyst (popliteal cyst) is located behind the knee and is a swelling of the popliteal bursa. In this image, the Baker's cyst is the yellowish bulbous tissue which was identified during routine dissection.
Severe swelling of the knee causes a popliteal cyst to form. The swelling is a result of an excess of synovial fluid (the fluid that keeps the knee joint lubricated). Synovial fluid is a clear liquid that normally circulates though the cavities in your knee joint. Sometimes, the knee produces too much of this fluid. 
A popliteal cyst, also known as a baker’s cyst, is a golf ball sized swelling that develops at the back of the knee. The cyst forms when the synovial fluid within the knee joint increases because of an injury or infection. 
email. Knowledge center. A Baker's cyst (Baker cyst), also known as a popliteal cyst is a swelling in the popliteal space-the space behind the knee-causing stiffness and knee pain. The pain typically worsens if the patient fully flexes or extends the knee, or when he/she is moving about. The signs and symptoms of a Baker's cyst include: When to see a doctor-anybody who experiences pain and swelling behind the knee should see a doctor. A bulge behind the knee may be a sign of a more serious condition, such as an aneurysm or a tumor.
A Baker’s cyst is also known as a popliteal cyst or synovial cyst. It is a soft, fluid-filled lump that forms on the back of the knee. The lump is sometimes mistaken for a blood clot, but it is not a blood clot. A Baker’s cyst usually develops because of damage to the knee. 