· just now. Report Abuse. Shoudln't let your kittens go outside until at least a week after the first course of vaccinations at about 8-9 weeks old...after that you should accompany your kitten when outside and don't leave them on their own outside until about 6 months old. Neurting cats starts from 6 months old. People will give you different opinions and you should really just listen to your vet! Generally, cats are neutered at 6 months old. It can be done earlier, but it is not advised. Kittens need to have their first course of injections at 8 weeks, then at 12 weeks. Because they will not be fully protected from all diseases until 12 weeks old, you cannot let them outside until about a week after their second injections
Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: A kitten should not be allowed outside until at least a week after it has finished its first course of vaccinations at about 13 - 14 weeks old (depending on the vaccine). Once it is fully vaccinated and has become used to life in your house, you can start to let your kitten go outside. Continue to accompany the kitten until it is used to your garden and can find its way back to the house without difficulty. It is best not to leave your kitten outside alone until it is at least 6 months old. Ideally you should also have them micro-chipped or wear a collar with name tag, as this will improve your chances of being reunited with them if they ever become lost. You should have your kitten neutered at around 6 months old
Confidence votes 51. Ideally a kitten should be at least 6 months old, but make sure the kitten has been living in the same home (not recently purchased or recently moved in) for at least 9 weeks. After 9 weeks a kitten should know it's surroundings and be able to recognise its home. Kittens should be let out after they've been spayed so they should be let out when there at least 10 or 12 months old. Younger kittens will simply not be able to fend for them … selves if left to their own devices.
It is best not to leave your kitten outside alone until it is 6 months old and it is essential that it is neutered (from 4 months of age) before allowing it unsupervised access. If you have adopted an adult cat you probably will have been advised to keep it in for 2-3 weeks to settle into its new home. Because of potential infection with diseases such as enteritis or cat flu, your kitten should not be allowed outside until at least a week after it has finished its first course of vaccinations at about 13-14 weeks old (depending on the vaccine). You could then let it explore outside if it is supervised.
A kitten needs to stay inside for around 6-9 weeks in order to give the kitten plenty of time to settle in and familiarise itself with its new surroundings before letting it o … utside. Ideally, a kitten should never be let outside until it is 6 to 7 months old at the very earliest. Kittens should be kept indoors until it has had all its vaccinations. This insures that its immune system is ready for the kitten to be let outside where many illnesses can be picked up. Kittens should be let out after they've been spayed so they should be let out when there at least 10 or 12 months old. Younger kittens will simply not be able to fend for them … selves if left to their own devices.
Next. I have 2 kittens that are almost 5 months old and i want them to be indoor/outdoor cats. Before you go telling me how dangerous it is for cats to be outside, first know that i live in a sparse suburban area and have had indoor/outdoor cats here my whole life and have never had a problem. I, however, have never been...
A kitten needs to stay inside for around 6-9 weeks in order to give the kitten plenty of time to settle in and familiarise itself with its new surroundings before letting it o … utside. Ideally, a kitten should never be let outside until it is 6 to 7 months old at the very earliest. Kittens should be kept indoors until it has had all its vaccinations. This insures that its immune system is ready for the kitten to be let outside where many illnesses can be picked up. As well as vaccinations, a kitten should be neutered or spayed for at least six weeks before being let outside. You should let your kitten outside when it is about 2 or 3 months old. Let them out 5 mins everyday. When they get a bit older, get a catflap or let them out for nearly all th … e day so they can get fresh air. When it is cold, about 3 mins out side because it probably is too cold for them.
show more I have 2 kittens that are almost 5 months old and i want them to be indoor/outdoor cats. Before you go telling me how dangerous it is for cats to be outside, first know that i live in a sparse suburban area and have had indoor/outdoor cats here my whole life and have never had a problem. I, however, have never been...