Care. Because lettuce has shallow roots, it should be hoed or cultivated carefully. Frequent light watering causes the leaves to develop rapidly, resulting in high-quality lettuce. Overwatering, especially in heavy soils, can lead to disease, soft growth and scalding or burning of the leaf margins. It is a head lettuce that is also low in nutritional value and flavor. Because of its superior shipping qualities, iceberg has been most available which accounts for it popularity. The most abundant nutrient in iceberg lettuce is water.
Lettuce is a leafy annual with relatively shallow roots. Think of roots as a vegetable's hands and mouth combined, reaching out for and ingesting the water and nutrients the plant needs. Most gardens have room for lettuce, an easy-to-squeeze-in herb with green, leafy foliage used for salads. Because lettuce has a limited root structure, it also makes an ideal container crop. Some 100 varieties of lettuce exist, each with its own preferences, but most types grow fastest in a sunny location in fertile, well-drained soil
You will end up with a head of lettuce and no roots. Float the plants in a shade spot and they usually grow new roots very quickly. Adding a little fish emulsion to the water (not in the pond!) may help, too. Varieties: There are a couple different varieties of water lettuce that water gardeners may be interested in. Water lettuce is generally care free, but there are a few reasons it may not thrive. Fish love to nibble at the roots and if they are large or there are a lot of them, they may kill the plant or even eat the entire thing. Placing the lettuce in floating baskets or partitioning them off from the fish with rocks may help.
The depth of a lettuce plant's roots depends on the species, the soil and the climate. Typically, most roots of common garden lettuce (Lactuca sativa crispa) stay within the top 6 inches of soil. Most gardens have room for lettuce, an easy-to-squeeze-in herb with green, leafy foliage used for salads. Because lettuce has a limited root structure, it also makes an ideal container crop. Some 100 varieties of lettuce exist, each with its own preferences, but most types grow fastest in a sunny location in fertile, well-drained
The domestication of lettuce over the centuries has resulted in several changes through selective breeding: delayed bolting, larger seeds, larger leaves and heads, better taste and texture, a lower latex content, and different leaf shapes and colors. Work in these areas continues through the present day. Lactuca sativa is a member of the Lactuca (lettuce) genus and the Asteraceae (sunflower or aster) family. The species was first described in 1753 by Carl Linnaeus in the second volume of his Species Plantarum. Synonyms for L. sativa include Lactuca scariola var.
Figure 1. Hydroponic Lettuce. Lettuce (see Figure 2) is a plant that has quite a small root system and is therefore particularly suited to being grown in water culture, or using the nutrient film technique (NFT). See the hydroponics systems page on this site for more information about these types of gardens. 
LETTUCE. The common lettuce of the garden (Lactuca sativa crispa) is a tall, leafy, annual herb with a milky juice. At first the stem is very short and the foliage densely clustered near the ground, but later in the season a flower stalk, 2 to 4 feet high, appears. Early Growth. --Root development in lettuce takes place rapidly. When conditions for growth are very favorable, lateral branches begin to appear on the first 1 to 1.5 inches of taproot only 6 days after the seed is planted and when the cotyledons alone have unfolded.
Leaf lettuce may be cut whenever it is large enough to use. Cutting every other plant at ground level gives the remaining plants more space for growth. Leaf lettuce reaches maximum size (6 to 12 ounces) in 50 to 60 days. Butterhead varieties form small, loose heads that weigh 4 to 8 ounces at harvest (60 to 70 days). It is a head lettuce that is also low in nutritional value and flavor. Because of its superior shipping qualities, iceberg has been most available which accounts for it popularity. The most abundant nutrient in iceberg lettuce is water.
There are five distinct types of lettuce: leaf (also called loose-leaf lettuce), Cos or romaine, crisphead, butterhead and stem (also called asparagus lettuce). Leaf lettuce, the most widely adapted type, produces crisp leaves loosely arranged on the stalk. Nearly every garden has at least a short row of leaf lettuce, making it the most widely planted salad vegetable. Cos or romaine forms an upright, elongated head and is an excellent addition to salads and sandwiches. It is a head lettuce that is also low in nutritional value and flavor. Because of its superior shipping qualities, iceberg has been most available which accounts for it popularity. The most abundant nutrient in iceberg lettuce is water.