Topic Overview. Sepsis is an extreme immune system response to an infection that has spread throughout the blood and tissues. Severe sepsis, also called septic shock, often causes extremely low blood pressure, which limits blood flow to the body and can result in organ failure and death. Sepsis is most often the result of a bacterial infection, but it can also be caused by other types of infection. Sepsis can occur in people of any age, but it is more common in infants, older adults, and people who have compromised immune systems.
Severe sepsis is a medical crisis where a patient's entire body experiences inflammation in response to an underlying infection. The term “severe sepsis” is a bit misleading, as it suggests there are less dangerous forms of this condition when in fact all stages of sepsis are dangerous. Neonatal sepsis is caused by an infection of the blood of infants younger than 90 days. A dish of klebsiella oxytoca bacteria, which can cause sepsis. A patient with severe sepsis will have to undergo dialysis to take over for overloaded kidneys.
Some people with severe sepsis and most people with septic shock require admission to an intensive care unit (ICU) , where the body’s organs can be supported while the infection is treated. As a result of problems with vital organs, people with severe sepsis are likely to be very ill and the condition can be fatal. However, if identified and treated quickly, sepsis is treatable and in most cases leads to full recovery with no lasting problems. Read more about treating sepsis. In some cases, symptoms of more severe sepsis or septic shock (when your blood pressure drops to a dangerously low level) develop soon after. These can include: 1  feeling dizzy or faint. 2  confusion or disorientation. 3  nausea and vomiting.
Sepsis is caused by an immune response triggered by an infection. The infection is most commonly by bacteria, but can also be by fungi, viruses, or parasites. Common locations for the primary infection include: lungs, brain, urinary tract, skin, and abdominal organs. Approximately 20–35% of people with severe sepsis and 30–70% of people with septic shock die. Lactate is a useful method of determining prognosis with those who have a level greater than 4 mmol/L having a mortality of 40% and those with a level of less than 2 mmol/L have a mortality of less than 15%.
Sepsis is a serious medical condition caused by an overwhelming immune response to infection. Immune chemicals released into the blood to combat the infection trigger widespread inflammation, which leads to blood clots and leaky vessels. Common symptoms of sepsis are fever, chills, rapid breathing and heart rate, rash, confusion and disorientation. Many of these symptoms, such as fever and difficulty breathing, mimic other conditions, making sepsis hard to diagnose in its early stages.
Sepsis is a life-threatening illness caused by your body’s response to an infection. Your immune system protects you from many illnesses and infections, but it’s also possible for it to go into overdrive in response to an infection. Sepsis develops when the chemicals the immune system releases into the bloodstream to fight an infection cause inflammation throughout the entire body instead.
A condition defined clinically as ' Sepsis associated with organ dysfunction, hypotension, or hypoperfusion abnormalities (which include) … lactic acidosis, oliguria, or an acute alteration in mental status; SS is part of a continuum of a biologic inflammatory response to infection that evolve toward septic shock. 
Sepsis (/ˈsɛpsɨs/) is a whole-body inflammatory response to an infection. Common signs and symptoms include fever, increased heart rate, increased breathing rate, and confusion. Approximately 20–35% of people with severe sepsis and 30–70% of people with septic shock die. Lactate is a useful method of determining prognosis with those who have a level greater than 4 mmol/L having a mortality of 40% and those with a level of less than 2 mmol/L have a mortality of less than 15%.
Disease severity partly determines the outcome with the risk of death from sepsis being as high as 30%, severe sepsis as high as 50%, and septic shock as high as 80%. The total number of cases worldwide is unknown as there is little data from the developing world. Approximately 20–35% of people with severe sepsis and 30–70% of people with septic shock die. Lactate is a useful method of determining prognosis with those who have a level greater than 4 mmol/L having a mortality of 40% and those with a level of less than 2 mmol/L have a mortality of less than 15%.
Septic shock is a medical condition as a result of severe infection and sepsis, though the microbe may be systemic or localized to a particular site. It can cause multiple organ dysfunction syndrome (formerly known as multiple organ failure) and death. 