A normal resting heart rate for adults ranges from 60 to 100 beats a minute. Generally, a lower heart rate at rest implies more efficient heart function and better cardiovascular fitness. For example, a well-trained athlete might have a normal resting heart rate closer to 40 beats a minute. To measure your heart rate, simply check your pulse. Place your index and third fingers on your neck to the side of your windpipe. Consult your doctor if your resting heart rate is consistently above 100 beats a minute (tachycardia) or if you're not a trained athlete and your resting heart rate is below 60 beats a minute (bradycardia) — especially if you have other signs or symptoms, such as fainting, dizziness or shortness of breath.
Your resting heart rate and recovery heart rate says a lot about your level of fitness and your risk for heart disease. Keep in mind heart rate is only one factor that impacts your risk for heart disease. Even though a high resting heart rate and slow heart rate recovery are indicators of poor physical fitness and, possibly, an increased risk for heart disease, a number of factors can affect your heart rate at rest and give a falsely elevated reading.
When you feel your pulse, count the number of beats in 15 seconds. Multiply this number by 4 to calculate your beats a minute. Keep in mind that many factors can influence heart rate, including: 1  Activity level. 2  Fitness level. 3  Air temperature. 4  Body position (standing up or lying down, for example). 5  Emotions. 6  Body size. Consult your doctor if your resting heart rate is consistently above 100 beats a minute (tachycardia) or if you're not a trained athlete and your resting heart rate is below 60 beats a minute (bradycardia) — especially if you have other signs or symptoms, such as fainting, dizziness or shortness of breath.
Even if you’re not an athlete, knowledge about your heart rate can help you monitor your fitness level — and it might even help you spot developing health problems. Your heart rate, or pulse, is the number of times your heart beats per minute. Normal heart rate varies from person to person. Knowing yours can be an important heart-health gauge. 
Your resting heart rate also indicates something about your general fitness level. A lowresting heart rate indicates a highly efficient cardiovascular system and a heart with a largestroke volume (amount of blood pumped per beat). You can track your fitness progress bywatching for reductions in your resting heart rate. 
If you want to determine your maximum heart rate, or the maximum number of times your heart can beat per minute, subtract your age from 220. Say, for example, you are 40 years old. Subtracting 40 from 220 leaves 180, the maximum number of heart beats per minute for a 40-year-old. Your maximum heart rate helps you determine what sort of a workout is best for you from an aerobic standpoint. 
As you develop a higher level of fitness, your resting heart rate should go down and your heart should recover more quickly from a workout, meaning your heart rate will drop more rapidly when you stop. References: JAMA. 2012;308(22):2405-2406. doi:10.1001/jama.2012.64751. Even though a high resting heart rate and slow heart rate recovery are indicators of poor physical fitness and, possibly, an increased risk for heart disease, a number of factors can affect your heart rate at rest and give a falsely elevated reading.
Resting heart rate, or pulse, refers to the number of times your heart beats per minute when you are at rest. Though a normal range is 50 to 100, most people’s hearts beat 60 to 80 times a minute. Above 100 is considered a rapid pulse, called tachycardia; an unusually slow resting heart rate is called bradycardia. If your resting heart rate is at the high end of the normal range, and especially if it is over 100, you should talk to your doctor about your overall health and your other risk factors for heart disease. If you have a heart condition, you may already be on medication that lowers your heart rate.
That makes your heart a very active muscle! Most people have a resting heart rate of between 60 and 100 beats per minute, although athletes and physically fit people may have a resting heart rate that’s significantly slower, in the 40s or 50s. Even though a high resting heart rate and slow heart rate recovery are indicators of poor physical fitness and, possibly, an increased risk for heart disease, a number of factors can affect your heart rate at rest and give a falsely elevated reading.