Photomicrograph of the fungus Candida albicans. Candidiasis is a fungal infection caused by yeasts that belong to the genus Candida. There are over 20 species of Candida yeasts that can cause infection in humans, the most common of which is Candida albicans. Candida yeasts normally live on the skin and mucous membranes without causing infection; however, overgrowth of these organisms can cause symptoms to develop. Symptoms of candidiasis vary depending on the area of the body that is infected.
Candidiasis is a fungal infection due to any type of Candida (a type of yeast). When it affects the mouth, it is commonly called thrush. Signs and symptoms include white patches on the tongue or other areas of the mouth and throat. Other symptoms may include soreness and problems swallowing. Candidiasis is a very common cause of vaginal irritation, or vaginitis, and can also occur on the male genitals. In immunocompromised patients, Candida infections can affect the esophagus with the potential of becoming systemic, causing a much more serious condition, a fungemia called candidemia.
The topic of yeast overgrowth in relation to chronic illnesses has been discussed for years. Conventional medicine is slow to agree with yeast as a cause of conditions such as chronic fatigue and fibromyalgia. Patients, on the other hand, are educating themselves with resources that help explain why they feel sick. From a holistic approach, yeast overgrowth is considered in relation to these conditions. Basically, it is thought that yeast, often the Candida albicans strain, has overwhelmed the immune system and is now wreaking havoc on the body with a host of systems.
It is the overgrowth of candida in the gut that can lead to a myriad of symptoms, and it is more often than not the cause of the latest GI disorder on the medical map, Irritable Bowel Syndrome (IBS). A candida infection in the gut can cause an immune system reaction to HWP-1, which then stimulates an allergic reaction to the gluten in wheat and other grains and may trigger celiac disease in genetically susceptible people.
Candida albicans is the most common type of fungus to cause yeast infections. Sometimes, other types of candida fungus are to blame. Common treatments usually cure a Candida albicans infection. Too much yeast in your vagina causes vaginal itching, burning and other classic signs and symptoms of a yeast infection. Overgrowth of yeast can result from: 1  Antibiotic use, which decreases lactobacillus bacteria in your vagina and changes the pH of your vagina. 2  Pregnancy. 3  Uncontrolled diabetes.
Fungal diseases can affect anyone. Learning about them can help you and your doctor recognize the symptoms of a fungal disease early and may help prevent serious complications. Fungal diseases are often caused by fungi that are common in the environment. Most fungi are not dangerous, but some types can be harmful to health. Mild fungal skin diseases can look like a rash and are very common. Fungal diseases in the lungs are often similar to other illnesses such as the flu or tuberculosis. Some fungal diseases like fungal meningitis and bloodstream infections are less common than skin and lung infections but can be deadly. 1  Types of fungal diseases Read about different types of fungal diseases.
Candidiasis in the vagina is commonly referred to as a “ yeast infection .” invasive candidiasis occurs when Candida species enter the bloodstream and spread throughout the body. Candida yeasts normally live on the skin and mucous membranes without causing infection; however, overgrowth of these organisms can cause symptoms to develop. Symptoms of candidiasis vary depending on the area of the body that is infected.
In other words, can a thyroid or autoimmune thyroid condition cause a candida infection? Well, a condition such as hypothyroidism can cause a decrease in the production of stomach acid, which in turn can cause an overgrowth of yeast. One of the most common causes of yeast overgrowth is the overuse of antibiotics. The reason for this is because the healthy bacteria that is part of the gut flora help to keep the yeast in check. Antibiotics not only kill the harmful bacteria, but also the healthy bacteria.
Causes. The fungus candida causes a vaginal yeast infection. Your vagina naturally contains a balanced mix of yeast, including candida, and bacteria. Lactobacillus bacteria produce acid, which prevents yeast overgrowth. That balance can be disrupted and lead to a yeast infection. Too much yeast in your vagina causes vaginal itching, burning and other classic signs and symptoms of a yeast infection. Overgrowth of yeast can result from: 1  Antibiotic use, which decreases lactobacillus bacteria in your vagina and changes the pH of your vagina. 2  Pregnancy. 3  Uncontrolled diabetes.