1 Lightly sand the Formica top to remove burn marks or scorching. 2  Apply a laminate repair product that allows you to match the surface appearance of your dining room table, as sanding may change its look. 3  Apply furniture polish when dry.
Repair deep gouges or scratches in the surface of your dining room table with a color-matched laminate repair paste. Some kits require you to mix a resin and catalyst together to re-create the plastic resin material, while others allow to you mix and match the right colors in a chip seal product.
If the scratch is deep and the piece is coated with poly, plan on refinishing the entire surface. Use 320-grit sandpaper to remove the existing finish. Use a 400-grit sandpaper to smooth out the scratch. Wipe the surface with a cloth soaked in mineral spirits to remove the sanding dust.
Originally Posted by Robzherenow. We just brought a very nice formal dining room set and before we begin using it, I was wondering what is the best way to protect the table from scratches and marks (from plates, utensils, etc).
If the table is scratched all over, sand the entire table surface to remove the scratches. Start with a 300-grit paper to remove the finish, then change to a 400-grit to smooth it even more. Wipe the tape down with a slightly damp rag to remove dust. Brush on a wood stain that matches the rest of the wood.
Reputation: 127. Advertisements. We just brought a very nice formal dining room set and before we begin using it, I was wondering what is the best way to protect the table from scratches and marks (from plates, utensils, etc).
No matter how hard you try to protect your furniture and your dining table, scratches are inevitable, especially if you have children. However, do not get discouraged over small or even deep scratches. They can be repaired. You can temporarily fix the scratches to hide them, or completely remove them.
If the scratch is not deep and the wood has not been covered with polyurethane, use a finish or stain pen to cover the scratch. These pens resemble a marker and come in a variety of colors to match almost any wood stain. Gently rub the scratched area with 00-gauge steel wool.