Adi Da Samrajashram (Naitauba, Fiji) added 2 new photos. Happy New Year 2015 from the sacred island of Naitauba! May the coming year be full of Brightest Love and Blessings. We offer thanks for the love and support that poured in to the island, and the rebuilding that has occurred. In the midst of that remembrance, everyone on Naitauba also sends their love and prayers to the people of Japan, that they may have great strength in the tragedy they are going through.
Naitaba Island (Naitauba, Naitaba) is an island of the northern Lau Islands of Fiji. In 1965 the actor Raymond Burr and his partner purchased 1,625 hectares (4,015 acres) on the island, where they raised copra and cattle. This land was sold in 1983 to Johannine Daist Communion for the use of Adi Da, with a purchase price of $2.1 million.
Adi Da Samrajashram The island of Naitauba in Fiji. Adi Da Samrajashram is Avatar Adi Da's principal Sapta Na Sannyasin Hermitage. It was the principal site of Avatar Adi Da's Teaching and Revelation Work from 1983 to 1999. Naitauba, Naitauba Composed and sung by Kathleen Ewart, singing in Adi Da's voice about the Spiritual purpose of the island of Naitauba. Fijian Meke Adi Da, devotees, and Fijian residents regularly held celebrations together during Adi Da's lifetime.
The Sacred Island of Naitauba, Fiji. Naitauba is a Divine Gift for the sake of everyone—not just for those who live here now, but a profound Gift to everyone. I am happy for My devotees, and we are happy together. We can make a difference with this place, this piece of Earth. In order to support the focus of contemplation, application is required to come to Naitauba, and access is by invitation only. Adi Da Samrajashram is imbued with the powerful spiritual presence of Adi Da Samraj, from the countless hours and days that He spent living and working there. Because of this, Naitauba will always be a core place of pilgrimage and spiritual retreat for present and future generations of devotees of Adi Da Samraj
It is a triangular shaped island approximately 2.4 km (1.5 mi) in diameter. The island is volcanic with coral and rises to 186 metres (610 ft) on a flat-topped hill toward the southern end of the island. The island is forested and coconuts were grown commercially for copra. There is a barrier reef completely surrounding the island. In 1965 the actor Raymond Burr and his partner purchased 1,625 hectares (4,015 acres) on the island, where they raised copra and cattle. This land was sold in 1983 to Johannine Daist Communion for the use of Adi Da, with a purchase price of $2.1 million.
It is also strongly committed to the principles of green living, sustainable energy, self-sufficiency, cooperation, tolerance, and peace. Adi Da’s devotees and the local Fijian and Indo-Fijian staff live together in harmony, serving and protecting the sacred environment of the island. Naitauba is a Divine Gift for the sake of everyone—not just for those who live here now, but a profound Gift to everyone. In order to support the focus of contemplation, application is required to come to Naitauba, and access is by invitation only. Adi Da Samrajashram is imbued with the powerful spiritual presence of Adi Da Samraj, from the countless hours and days that He spent living and working there. Because of this, Naitauba will always be a core place of pilgrimage and spiritual retreat for present and future generations of devotees of Adi Da Samraj
Adi Da Samrajashram (Naitauba, Fiji) added 6 new photos to the album: Naitauba Padavara 2013. Today we honor the 30th anniversary of Beloved Adi Da Samraj first setting foot on the sacred island of Naitauba! With joy in our hearts, we celebrate these last 30 years of Blessing. We offer thanks for the love and support that poured in to the island, and the rebuilding that has occurred. In the midst of that remembrance, everyone on Naitauba also sends their love and prayers to the people of Japan, that they may have great strength in the tragedy they are going through.
Sights and sounds, news, ways you can help support Naitauba. The Naitauba Organic Farm The Fijian island of Naitauba is the location of Adidam's principal Sapta Na Sannyasin Hermitage, Adi Da Samrajashram. Naitauba is a 2000-acre freehold island in Northern Lau, Fiji. Naitauba, Naitauba Composed and sung by Kathleen Ewart, singing in Adi Da's voice about the Spiritual purpose of the island of Naitauba. Fijian Meke Adi Da, devotees, and Fijian residents regularly held celebrations together during Adi Da's lifetime.