pseudonym. a nom de plume or fictitious name, especially one used by an author to conceal his identity. Cf. allonymy. — pseudonymous, adj. a nom de plume or fictitious name, especially one used by an author to conceal his identity. Cf. allonymy. — pseudonymous, adj. a nom de plume or fictitious name, especially one used by an author to conceal his identity. noun false name, alias, incognito, stage name, pen name, assumed name, nom de guerre, nom de plume, professional name Both plays were published under the pseudonym of Philip Dayre.
A fake or fictitious name for example, an authors pen name, or a name that someone might use on the internet which is not their real name.   A pseudonym is a made-up name … used by a person to conceal his/her identity. Most commonly associated with writers and are referred to as pen names.. 1 Pseudonym: Definition and Information The pseudonym definition most commonly used indicates that it means a fictitious name taken on to hide someone's true identity.. 2  Going by a pseudonym instead of your real na….
A pseudonym is a pen name, or a made-up name in order to hide the true identity of the author. On the internet, a pseudonym may be used by a blogger/gamer (etc.) to hide their … true name and personal information. Another word for this is alias. 8 people found this useful. 1 Pseudonym: Definition and Information The pseudonym definition most commonly used indicates that it means a fictitious name taken on to hide someone's true identity.. 2  Going by a pseudonym instead of your real na….
Full Definition of PSEUDONYM. : a fictitious name; especially: pen name. See pseudonym defined for English-language learners. See pseudonym defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 
A pen name (or nom de plume) is a pseudonym (sometimes a particular form of the real name) adopted by an author (or on the author's behalf by their publishers). Many pen names are used to conceal the author's identity. One famous example of this is Samuel Clemens' writing under the pen name Mark Twain. A pseudonym is distinct from an allonym, which is the (real) name of another person, assumed by the author of a work of art. This may occur when someone is ghostwriting a book or play, or in parody, or when using a front name, such as by screenwriters blacklisted in Hollywood in the 1950s and 1960s.
An anonymity pseudonym or multiple-use name is a name used by many different people to protect anonymity. It is a strategy that has been adopted by many unconnected radical groups and by cultural groups, where the construct of personal identity has been criticised. This has led to the idea of the open pop star. A pseudonym is distinct from an allonym, which is the (real) name of another person, assumed by the author of a work of art. This may occur when someone is ghostwriting a book or play, or in parody, or when using a front name, such as by screenwriters blacklisted in Hollywood in the 1950s and 1960s.
Pseudonymity, a word derived from pseudonym, meaning 'false name', is a state of disguised identity. The pseudonym identifies a holder, that is, one or more human beings who possess but do not disclose their true names (that is, legal identities). Most pseudonym holders use pseudonyms because they wish to remain anonymous, but anonymity is difficult to achieve, and is often fraught with legal issues.
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: pseudonym (Noun). A fictitious name, often used by writers and movie stars. The Reverend Charles Lutwidge Dodgson wrote Alice's Adventures in Wonderland under the pseudonym Lewis Carroll. Pseudonyms include stage names, screen names, pen names, nicknames, aliases, gamer identifications, and reign names of emperors, popes and other monarchs. Historically they have often taken the form of anagrams, Graecisms, and Latinisations, although there are many other methods of choosing a pseudonym.
Pseudonym. A pseudonym is a name that a person or group assumes for a particular purpose, which differs from his or her original or true name. Pseudonyms include stage names, screen names, pen names, nicknames, aliases, gamer identifications, and reign names of emperors, popes and other monarchs. Historically they have often taken the form of anagrams, Graecisms, and Latinisations, although there are many other methods of choosing a pseudonym.