Best Answer: From Ducks Unlimited, Canada: I found a nest in my yard with mallard duck eggs. How long will it take the eggs to hatch? On average, a mallard hen (female) lays one egg per day for about nine days. She will incubate the eggs for about 26-28 days before they hatch. Once hatched, it will be about 50 days before the ducklings can fly. 
incubated for 27-28 days to hatching with 50-60 days to fledging. so 50-60 days i guess. At best, this is an ill formed answer, as it is not accurate. Duck eggs hatch depending on the species of duck. Mallard ducks can hatch as early as 25 days, they do not follow the 28 scenario. They could also take as long as 35 days. Everything depends on the species, the incubator temp and its humidity
1 Call your local office, and ask them if you can raise these wild ducks from eggs, in an incubator you bought, and release them in exactly 60-90 days, which is their fledging time (how long it takes to fly) to a nearby lake in your town. 2  Notify them that the mother duck has been missing for 48 hours. 4. Start incubator several hours before adding the eggs to make sure the temperature stabilizes at 98–99.9 °F (36.7–37.7 °C) and Humidity at 30-50%. I have found that starting my incubator 24 hours before usually allows plenty of time for all the minor adjustments to be made prior to incubation of the eggs.
In 24 to 28 days for wild mallard ducks (28 to 32 days for muscovies), all the eggs in the nest will hatch within a twenty-four to 48 hour period. Mallards lay between 8-12 eggs and muscovies lay between 12-18 eggs. The egg laying process lasts for an equal number of days (it takes 12 days to lay 12 eggs). Once egg laying is complete, she will leave the male (who will wait at the water for her) and she will begin incubation on the nest fulltime
How to Hatch a Mallard Duck Egg. Mallard ducks are amazing animals. And sometimes you want to help them hatch. It's important to not remove wild ducks eggs from any nest without the proper cause; however, if the mother is confirmed missing for over a period of 48 hours, you may be able to help. Ad. 4. Start incubator several hours before adding the eggs to make sure the temperature stabilizes at 98–99.9 °F (36.7–37.7 °C) and Humidity at 30-50%. I have found that starting my incubator 24 hours before usually allows plenty of time for all the minor adjustments to be made prior to incubation of the eggs.
It takes a mallard duck 28-30 days for the eggs to hatch. All of the eggs will hatch within 24 hours and they will then head for water. Never to return to the nest. 3 people found this useful. It takes 28 days just like any other kind of egg or just like chicken eggs.. Duck eggs are not like chicken eggs. Chicken eggs take approximately 21 days to hatch. Duck egg … s, depending on species, incubator temps, and humidity levels, take between 25 and 35 days to hatch. Best bet is to do a specific search on the type of duck egg you are looking to hatch, i.e., search query: How long for Mallard duck eggs to hatch?
A wild duck nesting on your property is likely to be a mallard. Her eggs take 25 to 29 days to hatch, according to the U.S. Geological Survey website. Before she begins to incubate, she lays one egg a day, usually ending up with a clutch numbering about a dozen. Her warmth helps them develop and prepare to hatch. The incubation period varies by species and generally takes about a month. When the ducklings begin to crack through their shells at the end of the incubation period, they should all hatch within 24 to 48 hours. Some eggs may fail to hatch