How to Get Rid of Ant Mounds. The best way to get rid of ants outdoors would be to use pipe tobacco. To get rid of ants in yard, you can soak the tobacco in water overnight and make a tea with it. Discard the wet tobacco, and use gloves when handling the solution. Pour the liquid over the ant hills and soak them. The ants will die. Use baby powder on any trail of ants you see. Those ants will die as well. Another home remedy to kill ants is to mix boric acid and sugar together into a paste, about one tablespoon of boric acid to a cup of sugar. How to get rid of ant mounds is simply drop pieces of this paste near the hills or anywhere you see ants.
If you don’t have time making natural sprays to get rid of the ants in the garden, you can use boiling water. Before pouring the hot water into the ants’ nest you should open it up first, you can use a shovel or a spade. Opening the nest or anthill will expose the ants. If you find the ants’ nest, pour DE on it. Don’t forget to wear a mask when applying DE. Diatomaceous earth is a good thing to use when dealing with ants in the garden. It kills ants by suffocating them, drying the moisture in their bodies and cutting through their exoskeleton and spiracles.
1 one cup of sugar. 2  one cup of borax. 3  Mix the sugar and borax in a cup, then lightly sprinkle the mixture around the ant hills. 4  The ants will not be able to tell the borax is mixed with the sugar and carry it into the ant colony. The only time the ants might pose a problem is if the population becomes very large, resulting in an outright infestation. Something to watch for with ants in the garden, is aphids. Ants are attracted to aphids due to the fact that aphids give off a sweet secretion.
1 one cup of borax. 2  Mix the sugar and borax in a cup, then lightly sprinkle the mixture around the ant hills. 3  The ants will not be able to tell the borax is mixed with the sugar and carry it into the ant colony. 4  Borax is highly poisonous to ants, wiping out the colony in a couple days. The only time the ants might pose a problem is if the population becomes very large, resulting in an outright infestation. Something to watch for with ants in the garden, is aphids. Ants are attracted to aphids due to the fact that aphids give off a sweet secretion.
DIY spray. 1  Another way of dealing with ants in the garden is making your own natural spray. 2  You will need 1/2 teaspoon of liquid dish soap, 1 1/2 tbsp. canola oil, 1 quart of water and a clean empty spray bottle. If you find the ants’ nest, pour DE on it. Don’t forget to wear a mask when applying DE. Diatomaceous earth is a good thing to use when dealing with ants in the garden. It kills ants by suffocating them, drying the moisture in their bodies and cutting through their exoskeleton and spiracles.
1 Another way of dealing with ants in the garden is making your own natural spray. 2  You will need 1/2 teaspoon of liquid dish soap, 1 1/2 tbsp. canola oil, 1 quart of water and a clean empty spray bottle. If you find the ants’ nest, pour DE on it. Don’t forget to wear a mask when applying DE. Diatomaceous earth is a good thing to use when dealing with ants in the garden. It kills ants by suffocating them, drying the moisture in their bodies and cutting through their exoskeleton and spiracles.
Baits only work if the area they are placed in is clean. Otherwise the ants will continue to feed on “real” food. Sprays. Sprays provide an immediate knockdown and can help deal with the infestation until the nest or source is eliminated. Dusts, Powders and Granules. When placed in direct pathways, they are absorbed by ants and brought back to the nests for direct treatment of colonies. Some of these products can be used outdoors as barriers as well. When dealing with ants, the sure-fire way to eliminate them is to find the nest. Queens lay eggs constantly, providing a steady supply of fresh ants. Getting rid of the nest and the queen should solve your problem. To locate a nest, place a dab of jelly or peanut butter out where you’ve seen the ants. 
Whenever I find these ants in my garden I let them be. The only time the ants might pose a problem is if the population becomes very large, resulting in an outright infestation. Something to watch for with ants in the garden, is aphids. Ants are attracted to aphids due to the fact that aphids give off a sweet secretion. The ants will collect these aphid secretions, and take them back to their nests. The ants will also protect the aphids from predators
Thanks for the tips. Having a problem with the ants in my garden – which is pretty big-and don’t want to use poison on my vegies. Tried some chili powder but not taking care of the problem and they are eating my zuccini – that is not acceptable. Baking soda sounds like a great place to start. Again thanks. I hate just grabbing the nearest pesticide and spraying the whole backyard… including the garden. We are trying to be organic here! So in the past week or so we have been searching the “intra-webs” for the organic answer to ant control and have found some quite interesting ways to get rid of ants.
Ants are very hard to deal with from your home, your garden, or your lawn. It is true that ants have a very important role in the ecosystem, but they can be so annoying. They go to our food, water, and destroy our plants. Aside from aphids, ants are also among the worst enemies of gardeners. If you find the ants’ nest, pour DE on it. Don’t forget to wear a mask when applying DE. Diatomaceous earth is a good thing to use when dealing with ants in the garden. It kills ants by suffocating them, drying the moisture in their bodies and cutting through their exoskeleton and spiracles.