1 The sun-sign Capricorn is ruled by Planet Saturn. 2  This plant teaches the tough lessons of life to the Capricorns in hard way, in the early years of their lives. 3  This makes Capricorn be serious, disciplined and very self-involved people by nature.
The Capricorn man sets high value on duty, power, respect and loyalty. If you look beyond his armour, you will notice that he is a romantic. However, he will never allow his romanticism influence his decisions.
In a long term relationship – if you can get that far – the Capricorn man is wonderful in a long term relationship. He is a very dependable man, always working towards the next goal. The Capricorn man is typically successful in life and faithful to his women.
As a Friend. As a friend, the Capricorn-born native would be faithful and truthful. They would try to help their friends in need of support. They may not have many friends but they would be very attached to the ones they do have.
The Capricorn man is generally faithful because he does not understand why one would want other women since he has already chosen the right one. The Capricorn man is a long-term lover, careful and resisting.
1 Once they are assured that their partner can bring in stability to the relationship, they start expressing their feelings openly. 2  Romance with a Capricorn man is like cherishing the pleasure of an old wine. 3  These men become young at heart as they mature gracefully with their loving partner.
Are Capricorn Men Faithful. Capricorn men are serious, reticent and modest people. Many people misunderstand their persona because of their tough exterior. In relationships, they are very shy and open up lately. This article tries to seek answer to the question are Capricorn men faithful.
A Capricorn man is very loyal, faithful and stubbornly adheres to an attitude. They are also pleasant, friendly, and affable.
Nature of Capricorn Man. A Capricorn man is very loyal, faithful and stubbornly adheres to an attitude. They are also pleasant, friendly, and affable. He is a person who wants to dominate both at home and at work.