VSWR, or voltage standing wave ratio, is a measure of how well the components of the RF network are matched in impedance. When the impedances are improperly matched, you lose signal power, which results in weak transmissions, poor reception or both. 
The SWR meter or VSWR (voltage standing wave ratio) meter measures the standing wave ratio in a transmission line. The meter can be used to indicate the degree of mismatch between a transmission line and its load (usually a radio antenna), or evaluate the effectiveness of impedance matching efforts. 
The power standing wave ratio (PSWR) is defined as the square of the VSWR, however this terminology has no physical relation to actual powers involved in transmission. The SWR can be measured with an instrument called an SWR meter. With a different length of transmission line, the source will see a different impedance than Z load which may or may not be a good match to the source. Sometimes this is deliberate, as when a quarter-wave matching section is used to improve the match between an otherwise mismatched source and load.
VSWR stands for Voltage Standing Wave Ratio, and is also referred to as Standing Wave Ratio (SWR). VSWR is a function of the reflection coefficient, which describes the power reflected from the antenna. If the reflection coefficient is given by, then the VSWR is defined by the following formula: The reflection coefficient is also known as s11 or return loss. See the vswr table below to see a numerical mapping between reflected power, s11 and VSWR.
The VSWR is always a real and positive number for antennas. The smaller the VSWR is, the better the antenna is matched to the transmission line and the more power is delivered to the antenna. The minimum VSWR is 1.0. In this case, no power is reflected from the antenna, which is ideal. If the reflection coefficient is given by, then the VSWR is defined by the following formula: The reflection coefficient is also known as s11 or return loss. See the vswr table below to see a numerical mapping between reflected power, s11 and VSWR.
The SWR is usually thought of in terms of the maximum and minimum AC voltages along the transmission line, thus called the voltage standing wave ratio or VSWR (sometimes pronounced viswar). With a different length of transmission line, the source will see a different impedance than Z load which may or may not be a good match to the source. Sometimes this is deliberate, as when a quarter-wave matching section is used to improve the match between an otherwise mismatched source and load.
VSWR measures these voltage variances. It is the ratio of the highest voltage anywhere along the transmission line to the lowest voltage. Since the voltage does not vary in an ideal system, its VSWR is 1.0 or, as commonly expressed as a ratio of 1:1. When reflections occur, the voltages vary and VSWR is higher, for example 1.2, or 1.2:1.
Impedance mismatches result in standing waves along the transmission line, and SWR is defined as the ratio of the partial standing wave 's amplitude at an antinode (maximum) to the amplitude at a node (minimum) along the line. With a different length of transmission line, the source will see a different impedance than Z load which may or may not be a good match to the source. Sometimes this is deliberate, as when a quarter-wave matching section is used to improve the match between an otherwise mismatched source and load.
VSWR (Voltage Standing Wave Ratio) is a metric commonly used with antenna systems for ham or shortwave radio communication. VSWR is normally defined as a ratio with a 1:1 VSWR, indicating that there is an exact or perfect match between all antenna system elements. 
Physical Meaning of VSWR. VSWR is determined from the voltage measured along a transmission line leading to an antenna. VSWR is the ratio of the peak amplitude of a standing wave to the minimum amplitude of a standing wave, as seen in the following Figure: Figure 1. Voltage Measured Along a Transmission Line. If the reflection coefficient is given by, then the VSWR is defined by the following formula: The reflection coefficient is also known as s11 or return loss. See the vswr table below to see a numerical mapping between reflected power, s11 and VSWR.