Rabbits by ARBA standards are commonly classified by their rabbit body type. That being said there are currently 5 different rabbit body type classifications. Some of the smaller breeds of rabbits make up the Compact Rabbit Breeds category. These two main types include: Domestic Rabbits and Wild Rabbits. As mentioned already, all of the breeds of rabbits mentioned in this article are domestic rabbit breeds. Wild rabbit breeds are not categorized in the same way that domestic breeds are.
If we take a look at some books about rabbits (and hare), there are so many types of rabbits or breeds that we know to date. In general, we can say there are two big categories of rabbits: free rabbits and domestic rabbits, in which the pet rabbits are belong to. Two pictures below show you the contract between both. Beside dwarf, S-M-L and giant size of rabbits, also known some types of mini rabbits. They are called mini because they are similar to original types except the size that smaller or much smaller. For example Mini Rex is Rex rabbit that smaller in size, and Mini Lop is miniature of typical Lop rabbit.
Normal Rabbit Fur. The most common rabbit fur classification is; Normal Rabbit Fur. The majority of the different breeds of rabbits have “normal rabbit fur”. Within the “Normal Rabbit Fur” category there are two different rabbit fur sub-types; Fly-back Fur and Rollback Fur. These two main types include: Domestic Rabbits and Wild Rabbits. As mentioned already, all of the breeds of rabbits mentioned in this article are domestic rabbit breeds. Wild rabbit breeds are not categorized in the same way that domestic breeds are.
When choosing a rabbit, knowing the types of rabbits available may help you. Some pet rabbits only come in one or two colors, while others come in a large variety. So, not only do you need to decide on the type of rabbit and size of your pet rabbit, but you can also choose the coat pattern on some. If looking for a pet rabbit, you can also talk to the different breeders in your area and have a look at their rabbits. They will have information on their breed. There are so many types of rabbits, sometimes it's hard to choose. I think all rabbits are cute and lovable.
As for what type of rabbits to keep as pets, there's a bunch of different breeds to choose from! I myself have a dwarf mix, but many people enjoy keeping lops (Holland lop, mini lop), Dutch rabbits, and mini-Rexes as pets as well. 
Many of the rabbits in this category have very erect ears and possess a spotted fur coat. In addition to being commonly classified by “Rabbit Body Type” rabbits are also classified by the fur on their pelts. There are four main types of rabbit fur; Normal Rabbit Fur, Rex Rabbit Fur, Satin Rabbit Fur, Wool Rabbit Fur. These two main types include: Domestic Rabbits and Wild Rabbits. As mentioned already, all of the breeds of rabbits mentioned in this article are domestic rabbit breeds. Wild rabbit breeds are not categorized in the same way that domestic breeds are.
Types of Rabbit Breeds. In my opinion there are two main types of rabbit breeds in which all other classifications fall into; domestic and wild rabbit breeds. All of the breeds of rabbits recognized by the American Rabbit Breeders Association are domestic breeds. 1 Types of Rabbits – learn how rabbit breeds are classifieds and about the different rabbit types. 2  Breeding Rabbits – discover information on the topic of breeding rabbits. 3  Rabbits for Sale – find rabbits for sale using our huge rabbit breeders directory.
Rabbit breeds are different varieties of the domestic rabbit created through selective breeding or natural selection. Breeds recognized by organizations such as the American Rabbit Breeders Association (ARBA) or the British Rabbit Council (BRC) may be exhibited and judged in rabbit shows. Breeders attempt to emulate the breed standard by which each breed is judged. These rabbit breeds are now extinct but many form part of the heritage of the rabbit breeds above. For some there is very little known and the only records that exist are extracts in old breed books.