Copies of tax returns should be kept indefinitely. And tax records should be kept for longer in many situations -- such as when your small business doesn’t file a return, or if it files a fraudulent return, in which case you should maintain records forever.
How long to keep records. You must normally keep records for at least 6 years from the end of the last company financial year they relate to. You may need to keep records longer if: 1  they show a transaction that covers more than one of the company’s accounting periods. 2  the company has bought something that it expects to last more than 6 years, like equipment or machinery. 3  you sent your Company Tax Return late. You must also keep any other financial records, information and calculations you need to complete your Company Tax Return. This includes records of all money: 1  spent by the company, eg receipts, petty cash books, orders and delivery notes. 2  received by the company, eg invoices, contracts, sales books and till rolls.
yazzaspazza. June 25, 2014 3:12 pm. You must keep all business tax records for seven years, after which all records can be destroyed if you wish. The ATO can audit you and apply fines or refunds in relation to records up to 7 years previous. By law, you must keep business records for five years after they are prepared, obtained or the transactions completed, whichever occurs latest. The end of the financial year is nigh, and you’re gathering together documents to prepare for 2013/2014 tax filing.
Income Tax Records. The Internal Revenue Service requires companies to keep business tax returns and supporting documents for a minimum of three years from the time of filing. During this time, the return can be amended or audited. If you failed to report income, however, the IRS can come after your business for up to six years. If the business took a deduction for a worthless security or bad debt, the IRS can pursue the issue for seven years. To be safe, a business should keep tax records in its permanent files. Anti-discrimination laws require companies with a certain number of employees to keep job application records for at least three years. Employee records should be kept while the person is employed by the company and at least seven years after the termination of employment.
The amount of time a company must keep these records on file depends on the type of record involved and the time limitations on the underlying activity that the document describes or substantiates. Anti-discrimination laws require companies with a certain number of employees to keep job application records for at least three years. Employee records should be kept while the person is employed by the company and at least seven years after the termination of employment.
1 Typically, the IRS can come after your business for failing to report income for up to 6 years after your filing if the amount is greater than 25% of your business’s gross income. 2  If you filed for a deduction for a bad debt or worthless security, the IRS suggests you keep your supporting tax records for 7 years. 1 If you filed for a deduction for a bad debt or worthless security, the IRS suggests you keep your supporting tax records for 7 years. 2  Under these circumstances, you may generally wish to retain your supportive records for at least 7 years. 3  Employment Tax Records.
Most business owners don’t know how long they should hold on to old records. According to the IRS, here’s how long you should keep those records: Permanently: 1  general ledgers and journals. 2  payroll records, including W-2s, 940s, 941s. 3  year-end financial statements. 4  tax returns and supporting documents. 5  articles of incorporation, bylaws, meeting minutes, etc. 6  retirement plan records. 
Enter Your Zip Code to Connect with a Lawyer Serving Your Area. Often swamped with paperwork, many entrepreneurs wonder how long you should keep business records. The answer depends a great deal upon whom you ask and what the record pertains to in your business. The IRS sets some basic record retention standards for tax records. 1 If you filed for a deduction for a bad debt or worthless security, the IRS suggests you keep your supporting tax records for 7 years. 2  Under these circumstances, you may generally wish to retain your supportive records for at least 7 years. 3  Employment Tax Records.
Nonetheless, there’s bound to be a time when your small business starts outgrowing its file cabinets or runs out of space for bankers’ boxes in the records room. Before you begin indiscriminately purging them, know the guidelines for how long you should keep company records. And tax records should be kept for longer in many situations -- such as when your small business doesn’t file a return, or if it files a fraudulent return, in which case you should maintain records forever.