The Renaissance helped and changed the way people thought and lived their lives. During the Renaissance art was said to be very important, artists like Michelangelo, Raphael, Breughel the Elder and Leonardo Da Vinci created amazing works of art like the Mona Lisa, the Last Supper, the ceiling in the Sistine Chapel. 
The Renaissance was a time of great social and cultural change in Europe. It was a period characterised by innovation, imagination and creativity. The Renaissance was also a time during which Europe's classical past was revisited and reinvigorated. The period of time during which the European Renaissance fell was between the end of the Middle Ages (or medieval period) and the beginning of the Modern Age. For some historians, the European Renaissance is considered as the dawn of the Early Modern Era.
The Renaissance (UK /rɨˈneɪsəns/ , US /ˈrɛnɨsɑːns/) is a period in Europe, from the 14th to the 17th century, considered the bridge between the Middle Ages and modern history. The Renaissance marks the period of European history at the close of the Middle Ages and the rise of the Modern world. It represents a cultural rebirth from the 14th through the middle of the 17th centuries. Early Renaissance, mostly in Italy, bridges the art period during the fifteenth century, between the Middle Ages and the High Renaissance in Ital
The Renaissance-Rebirth of Europe. Renaissance is the French word for rebirth. It is the time of change that happened in Europe between the 14th and 16th centuries. It was an age of growth in Europe. New, powerful city states emerged. A new middle class had more and more money to spend. 
There are two Renaissances that I know of: a) The Medieval Renaissance: This was a time in Europe when art, literature and music flourished (mostly art and literature). Leonardo DaVinci, an Italian artist lived during this era, famous for creating religious paintings and The Mona Lisa. RENAISSANCE PERIOD never before The renaissance period started in northern Italy during the 14th century in northern Italy and spread to Europe in the late 15th century. It starts from the date of discovery of America by Columbus .The renaissance period of new thinking changed the culture of the English people.
Renaissance Inventions & Discoveries The Renaissance was a cultural movement that took place in Europe during the period between 14th and 17th century. 
Introduction. The period of European history referred to as the Renaissance was a time of great social and cultural change in Europe. Generally speaking, the Renaissance spanned from the 14th to the 16th centuries, spreading across Europe from its birthplace in Italy. During the Middle Ages, Italy was not the unified country that it is today. The period of time during which the European Renaissance fell was between the end of the Middle Ages (or medieval period) and the beginning of the Modern Age. For some historians, the European Renaissance is considered as the dawn of the Early Modern Era.
The Harlem Renaissance was the name given to the cultural, social, and artistic explosion that took place in Harlem between the end of World War I and the middle of the 1930s. During this period Harlem was a cultural center, drawing black writers, artists, musicians, photographers, poets, and scholars. 
1 Techniques and Famous Works of the Renaissance Art Period It was the period that defined art in Europe for all time. 2  The Renaissance art period of the 15th and 16th centuries brought us some of the most renowned artists and works of…. 1 The Renaissance art period of the 15th and 16th centuries brought us some of the most renowned artists and works of…. 2  The History of Fort Lee Virginia Fort Lee in Virginia goes a long way back in American history.