This status will tell you when your refund was sent to your bank. It may take your financial institution 1 – 5 days to deposit the funds into your account. Please wait until it’s been five days from the date we sent the refund to your bank to check with your bank about the status of your refund.
1 E-filed tax returns with direct deposit – E-file with direct deposit is the fastest way to get your tax refund. 2  The IRS states that 9 out of 10 e-filed tax returns with direct deposit will be processed within 21 days of IRS e-file acceptance.
Refund Processing Time. 1  E-filed tax returns with direct deposit – E-file with direct deposit is the fastest way to get your tax refund. 2  The IRS states that 9 out of 10 e-filed tax returns with direct deposit will be processed within 21 days of IRS e-file acceptance.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Normally it takes 7 - 10 days from the day that your return is accepted to receive a direct deposit. For a refund that is being mailed in check form, add 1 - 2 days. However for some people, it's been shorter than this and I've heard of a direct deposit turn around in 5 days.
Splitting your refund is easy. Use IRS’ Form 8888, Allocation of Refund (Including Savings Bond Purchases) . Just follow the instructions on the form. If you want IRS to deposit your refund into just one account, use the direct deposit line on your tax form.
Tax refunds are normally issued within approximately 21 days if you file electronically, but due to budget cuts, expect to wait a bit longer. Check the status of your refund within 24 hours after your e-filed tax return is received by the IRS or four weeks after your tax forms are mailed in. [Image: Daily Finance 1  ]. Share 746. 2  Tweet 18. 3  Share 9. 4  Share 10. 5  Pin It 0.
1 The IRS states that 9 out of 10 e-filed tax returns with direct deposit will be processed within 21 days of IRS e-file acceptance. 2  Mailed paper returns – Refund processing time is 6 to 8 weeks from the date the IRS receives your tax return.