English-Spanish Spanish-English English-Italian Italian-English English-French French-English English definition English synonyms Espanol-Español Francais-Français Francais-Français Espanol-Español Espanol: español Portugues: português Portugues: português espanol... español espanol español definicion definición espanol español sinonimos sinónimos catala català definicio definició more
Full Definition of PROTRUDE. transitive verb. 1. archaic: to thrust forward. 2. : to cause to project. intransitive verb. — pro·tru·si·ble \-ˈtrue-ˈtrü-sə, -bəl-\ zə. adjective
English definition English thesaurus English-Spanish English-French English-Italian Spanish-English French-English Italian-English Espanol-Español Francais-Français Francais-Français Espanol-Español Espanol: español Portugues: português Portugues: português espanol... español espanol español definicion definición espanol español sinonimos sinónimos catala català definicio definició more
Full Definition of PROTRUDE. transitive verb. 1. archaic: to thrust forward. 2. : to cause to project. intransitive verb. — pro·tru·si·ble \-ˈtrue-ˈtrü-sə, -bəl-\ zə. Adjective see protrude defined For-english language. Learners see protrude defined for. kids
protrude verb [I]. › to ​stick out from or through something: A ​rotting ​branch protruded from the ​swamp like a ​ghostly ​arm. protruding ​ears/​teeth. (Definition of protrude from the Cambridge Advanced Learners Dictionary & Thesaurus © Cambridge University Press).
1 The evolution of fish feeding systems is a history of change in multiple mechanical systems that raise the head, drop the lower jaw, expand the hyoid, and protrude the upper jaw. 2  The eyes can be preserved inside or outside the carapace, which indicates that they could be protruded or withdrawn by the peduncles.
Tags for the entry protrude. Hindi meaning of protrude, protrude meaning in Hindi, protrude definition, examples and pronunciation of protrude in Hindi language.
Meaning and definitions of protrude, translation in Hindi language for protrude with similar and opposite words. Also find spoken pronunciation of protrude in Hindi and in English language.
protrude verb [I]. › to ​stick out from or through something: A ​rotting ​branch protruded from the ​swamp like a ​ghostly ​arm. protruding ​ears/​teeth. (Definition of protrude from the Cambridge Advanced Learner’s Dictionary & Thesaurus © Cambridge University Press). See all translations.