Genus: Escherichia coli fits into the Genus Escherichia (which is named for the person who discovered this genus, Theodor Escherich) because members of this group are mostly opportunistic flora that are enteric (colonize in the intestinal tract of mammals). Family: Escherichia coli fits into the family Enterobacteriaceae because members of this group are motile via peritrichous flagella that grows well at 37oC, is Oxidase negative, Catalase positive, and reduces nitrates.
Most E. coli strains are harmless, but some, such as serotype O157:H7, can cause serious food poisoning in humans, and are occasionally responsible for product recalls. A strain of E. coli is a sub-group within the species that has unique characteristics that distinguish it from other E. coli strains. These differences are often detectable only at the molecular level; however, they may result in changes to the physiology or life cycle of the bacterium.
Domain and Kingdom: Escherichia coli fits into the domain and kingdom of Bacteria because members of this group are unicellular microorganisms. Family: Escherichia coli fits into the family Enterobacteriaceae because members of this group are motile via peritrichous flagella that grows well at 37oC, is Oxidase negative, Catalase positive, and reduces nitrates.
E. coli is in the DOMAIN Eubacteria. 1  Kingdom: Prokaryotes (cells lacking nuceli). 2  Division or Phylum: Gracilicutes (with thinner cell walls-Gram negative, or appear red on a Gram stain). 3  Class: Section 4 - Gram negative Rods and Cocci (shape of cells). 
Escherichia coli (commonly abbreviated E. coli; pronounced /ˌɛʃɨˈrɪkiə ˈkoʊlaɪ/, named after Theodor Escherich) is a Gram negative rod-shaped bacterium that is commo … nly found in the lower intestine of warmblooded organisms (endotherms). A strain of E. coli is a sub-group within the species that has unique characteristics that distinguish it from other E. coli strains. These differences are often detectable only at the molecular level; however, they may result in changes to the physiology or life cycle of the bacterium.
Species: Escherichia coli is one of five species recognized under the Genus Escherichia. What makes E. coli unique is by these biochemical activities: ferments lactose, possesses lysine decarboxylase, is Vogus-Proskauer negative, produces indole, doesn't grow on nitrate, and doesn't produce H2S. Family: Escherichia coli fits into the family Enterobacteriaceae because members of this group are motile via peritrichous flagella that grows well at 37oC, is Oxidase negative, Catalase positive, and reduces nitrates.
E. coli O157:H7 is one of the most infective strains that can cause food poisoning. It belongs to enterohemorrhagic strain of the E. coli and can lead to bloody diarrhea and kidney failure when one gets infected by contaminated ground beef, unpasteurized milk or contaminated water. The toxin that E. coli O157:H7 produces is a Shiga-like toxin which is a regulated toxin that catalytically inactivate 60S ribosomal subunits of most eukaryotic cells, blocking mRNA translation and thus causing cell death.
Class: Escherichia coli fits into the class Gamma Proteobacteria because members of this group are. Order: Escherichia coli fits into the order Enterobacteriales because members of this group are rod-shaped facultatively anaerobic G-bacterium. Family: Escherichia coli fits into the family Enterobacteriaceae because members of this group are motile via peritrichous flagella that grows well at 37oC, is Oxidase negative, Catalase positive, and reduces nitrates.
For E. coli in molecular biology, see Escherichia coli (molecular biology) . Escherichia coli (/ˌɛʃɨˈrɪkiə ˈkoʊlaɪ/ ; also known as E. coli) is a Gram-negative, facultatively anaerobic, rod-shaped bacterium of the genus Escherichia that is commonly found in the lower intestine of warm-blooded organisms (endotherms). The genome sequence of the type strain of E. coli has been added to this collection not before 2014. Comparison of these sequences shows a remarkable amount of diversity; only about 20% of each genome represents sequences present in every one of the isolates, while around 80% of each genome can vary among isolates.