Fibre is an important part of a healthy balanced diet. It can help prevent heart disease, diabetes, weight gain and some cancers, and can also improve digestive health. However, many people don't get enough fibre. On average, most people in the UK get about 18g of fibre a day. Foods that contain soluble fibre include: 1  oats, barley and rye. 2  fruit, such as bananas and apples. 3  root vegetables, such as carrots and potatoes. 4  golden linseeds.
Soluble fibre is the soft fibre that helps control blood glucose (sugar) and reduces cholesterol. It also helps in managing diarrhea. Soluble fibre is present in oat bran, oatmeal, legumes (dried beans and lentils) and fruits such as apples and strawberries. Insoluble fibre is the bulky fibre that helps to prevent constipation. It also helps to prevent some types of cancers. It is present in wheat bran, whole grain breads and cereals, fruits and vegetables. 
Dietary fiber or roughage is the indigestible portion of food derived from plants. It has two main components: 1  Soluble fiber, which dissolves in water, is readily fermented in the colon into gases and physiologically active byproducts, and can be prebiotic and viscous. 1 Insoluble fiber, which does not dissolve in water, is metabolically inert and provides bulking, or it can be prebiotic and metabolically ferment in the large intestine. 2  Bulking fibers absorb water as they move through the digestive system, easing defecation.
We gain no nutrients or energy from fibre, it holds no calories as it is not digested, but passes through our digestive systems. Fibre or ‘roughage’ does, however, provide an important function in the body; it is essential to a well-tuned digestive system and can help the body remove potentially harmful waste. Nutritionists usually recommend that people increase their intake of high fibre foods. Insoluble Fibre does not dissolve in water or your stomach. Rather it absorbs water and increases in size – as insoluble fibre passes through your digestive system it provides bulk and moisture to stools, a natural laxative effect, thus reducing the symptoms of constipation.
1 This type of fiber dissolves in water to form a gel-like material. 2  It can help lower blood cholesterol and glucose levels. 3  Soluble fiber is found in oats, peas, beans, apples, citrus fruits, carrots, barley and psyllium. 4  Insoluble fiber. 1 It can help lower blood cholesterol and glucose levels. 2  Soluble fiber is found in oats, peas, beans, apples, citrus fruits, carrots, barley and psyllium. 3
Fiber is commonly classified as soluble, which dissolves in water, or insoluble, which doesn't dissolve. 1  Soluble fiber. 2  This type of fiber dissolves in water to form a gel-like material. 3  It can help lower blood cholesterol and glucose levels. 1 It can help lower blood cholesterol and glucose levels. 2  Soluble fiber is found in oats, peas, beans, apples, citrus fruits, carrots, barley and psyllium. 3  Ins
Fiber is that part of plant foods that your body can't digest or absorb. It is also referred to as roughage or bulk. By classification, fiber is considered an indigestible carbohydrate, explains Dr. Elaine Rancatore of 2RHealth. But fiber is very different from other carbohydrates -- and much lower in calories! 
1 Soluble fiber. 2  This type of fiber dissolves in water to form a gel-like material. 3  It can help lower blood cholesterol and glucose levels. 4  Soluble fiber is found in oats, peas, beans, apples, citrus fruits, carrots, barley and psyllium. 1 It can help lower blood cholesterol and glucose levels. 2  Soluble fiber is found in oats, peas, beans, apples, citrus fruits, carrots, barley and psyllium. 3  Ins
Fiber or fibre (from the Latin fibra) is a natural or synthetic string used as a component of composite materials, or, when matted into sheets, used to make products such as paper, papyrus, or felt. Fibers are often used in the manufacture of other materials. 
The main function of fibre is to keep the digestive system healthy and functioning properly. Fibre aids and speeds up the excretion of waste and toxins from the body, preventing them from sitting in the intestine or bowel for too long, which could cause a build-up and lead to several diseases. What happens next depends on which type of fibre is present. In the case of insoluble fibre, it promotes the growth of a certain friendly bacteria that ferments and makes the waste material soft and bulky, which in turn helps it to pass through the intestines quicker to the bowel and out of the body.