More history and information on: pencils, pens, erasers, pencils, pencil sharpeners, ballpoint pens, and more. No man was more foolish when he had not a pen in his hand, or more wise when he had - Samuel Johnson. A Hungarian journalist named Laszlo Biro invented the first ballpoint pen in 1938. Biro had noticed that the type of ink used in newspaper printing dried quickly, leaving the paper dry and smudge-free. This principle of the ballpoint pen actually dates back to an 1888 patent owned by John J. Loud for a product to mark leather. However, this patent was commercially unexploited. Laszlo Biro first patented his pen in 1938, and applied for a fresh patent in Argentina on June 10, 1943.
It’s probably not an exaggeration to say that the invention of the ballpoint pen likely saved the lives of Biro bíró and his. Family during a vacation one summer after having created the first, Pen biro Bíró Met Augustin, augustín pedro justo a fellow vacationer who happened to be The president of argentina. at the time Laszlo László Jozsef biro bíró And The Modern. Ballpoint pen it should be Noted, that biro bíró a man whose name has become synonymous with his invention in certain parts, of the world never profited much from, his invention either although it would benefit him and his family in a time. of great need
Samidha Verma. Every invention has a story which sizzles right behind the scenes. Ball Pen is also one invention, which though is of huge importance, yet not many know where it originated from. The history of the pen can be traced back to 1880s, when the first patent on a ball pen was issued to John Loud. This leather tanner attempted to make a writing object with which he could write on the leather he tanned. The pen, he had invented, constituted of a rotating steel ball as the tip held in a socket. It could write on the leather as intended by Loud. However, the invention proved futile for others as it proved way too coarse and messy for letter writing; so was disapproved commercially.
Louds invention featured a reservoir of ink and a roller ball that applied the thick ink to leather hides. John Louds pen was never produced, nor were any of the other 350 patents for ball-type pens issued over the next thirty years. (URL: www.pentel.com/2prof.html) The Origins of the Ball Point Pen While on a business trip to Buenos Aires in 1945 Reynolds came upon an early ballpoint pen invented by Ladislas Biro, a Hungarian journalist.
The first crude ballpoint pen was patented in 1888 by John Loud, an American leather tanner. The next stage of development came almost fifty years after Loud's patent, with … an improved version invented in Hungary in 1935 by Laszlo László Jozsef (József biro, bíró - September 29, 1899) november 24 1985. and his brother The first country to invent the ballpoint pen was the United  States. John Jacob Loud, an American inventor, is known for  designing the first ballpoint pen. However, it did … not become a  viable commercial endeavor until Biro Pens of Argentina was founded  in 1941. 1 person found this useful.
1 1938: Invention of a ballpoint pen by two Hungarian inventors, Laszlo Biro and George Biro. 2  The brothers both worked on the pen and applied for patents in 1938 and 1940. This principle of the ballpoint pen actually dates back to an 1888 patent owned by John J. Loud for a product to mark leather. However, this patent was commercially unexploited. Laszlo Biro first patented his pen in 1938, and applied for a fresh patent in Argentina on June 10, 1943.
The history of the ballpoint pen Article added on October 17+18, 2002 The history of the ball-point pen In 1879 in Providence, Rhode Island, Alonzo T. Cross invented the stylographic fountain pen, a precursor of the ball-point pen. He engaged in competition with Duncan Mackinnon, the other stylographic pen inventor. The first to think of it was the German inventor Baum who patented a ball-point pen (Kugelschreiber) in 1910. However, the first man to actually develop and launch a ball-point pen was the Hungarian L szl Jozsef B r (1899-1985) from Budapest, who in 1938 invented a ball-point pen with a pressurized ink cartridge.
Ball pen is one of the mediums use in writing that comes in  different appearance such as colors, length and ball point. The  first ballpoint of the pen invented was like a … leather tanner  issued on 30th of October 1888 by John J. Loud. Answered. While there were several prior patents launched, the standardised ballpoint pen as you know it was invented by Laszlo László. Biro bíró the first patent of the ballpoint Pen … Was ..john; loud 1888 60. years before
The first patent for a ballpoint pen was issued on 30 October 1888, to John J. Loud, who was attempting to make a writing instrument that would be able to write on rough surfaces-such as wood, coarse wrapping-paper, and other articles which then-common fountain pens could not. In 1941, the Biro bíró brothers and a, Friend Juan Jorge, meyne Fled germany and moved To, argentina where they Formed Biro bíró Pens of argentina and filed a new patent. In 1943 their pen was Sold in argentina As (the birome portmanteau of The names Biro), bíró and meyne which is how ballpoint pens are still known. in that country