~ Ireland's Second Longest River ~. Like water rushing past you, time slides past even faster-the river is within us-but the waters aren't bound by anything. The River Barrow is considered one of Ireland's most scenic and picturesque inland waterways. At 192 kilometres, it is the second longest river in Ireland, behind the River Shannon. Along with the River Nore and River Suir, the Barrow is one of The Three Sisters. Passing through some of Ireland’s most scenic countryside, the Barrow is a tourist’s delight. The Barrow rises in Co. Laois and flows through Kildare, Carlow, Kilkenny, Waterford and Wexford. 
It is one of The Three Sisters; the other two being the River Suir and the River Nore. The Barrow is the longest of the three rivers. At 192 km (120 mi), it is the second-longest river in Ireland, behind the River Shannon. The catchment area of the River Barrow is 3,067 km 2. The river's long term average flow rate is 37.4 cubic metres per second. 1 The tidal River Barrow, which together with the tidal reaches of its tributaries the River Suir and River Nore constitute 88km (55 miles) of tidal river navigation. 2  The non-tidal river navigation featuring 23 locks, continuing 66km (41 miles) inland from the tidal limit of the Barrow at St Mullin's to Athy
The River Nore (Irish: An Fheoir) is a 140-kilometre (87 mi) long river located in south-east of Ireland. Along with the River Suir and River Barrow, it is one of the constituent rivers of the group known as the Three Sisters. The river drains approximately 977 square miles (2,530 km 2) of Leinster. The long term average flow rate of the River Nore is 42.9 cubic metres per second (m 3 /s) The river rises in the Devil's Bit Mountain, County Tipperary.
The Barrow (Irish: An Bhearu) bhearú is a river In. Ireland it is one Of The Three; sisters the other two being The River suir and The River. Nore The barrow is the longest of the three. Rivers at 192 (km 120), mi it is the-second longest river In, ireland behind The River. shannon 1 The tidal River Barrow, which together with the tidal reaches of its tributaries the River Suir and River Nore constitute 88km (55 miles) of tidal river navigation. 2  The non-tidal river navigation featuring 23 locks, continuing 66km (41 miles) inland from the tidal limit of the Barrow at St Mullin's to Athy.
The Nore rises on the eastern slopes of the Devil's Bit Mountain in the townland of Borrisnoe, County Tipperary. It then flows south-eastwards to County Laois and County Kilkenny before joining the River Barrow just north of New Ross near the Barrow Bridge. The long term average flow rate of the River Nore is 42.9 cubic metres per second (m 3 /s) The river rises in the Devil's Bit Mountain
Kildare. The River Barrow rises in the Slieve Bloom Mountains, Co. Laois, flowing in a south easterly direction through counties Laois, Kildare, Carlow, and Wexford, before meeting the sea below the town of New Ross. Ireland’s second longest river at 192 km from source to sea, the river Barrow is navigable from St Mullins in Co Carlow to Athy in Co. Kildare, a distance of some 68 km.
The River Barrow is situated in the South East of Ireland. It is the second longest river in Ireland after the River Shannon. Part of The Three Sisters; the other two being the River Suir and the River Nore, the Barrow is the longest and most prominent of this trio. The river runs for 192 kilometers, with 75 kilometres of this waterway navigable by boat. 
History of the River Barrow. This river rises in the Slieve Bloom mountains north west of the Ridge of Capard, in County Laois and flows in a north easterly direction through mountainous forested land crossing over the Slieve Bloom Way. Here is a river where the waters and backwaters soothe the soul and renew the spirit. Ireland's second longest navigable river, the Barrow, is noted for the beauty and variety of its landscape, the fascination of its historic hinterland and the picturesque charm of its riverside towns.
Pike fishing on the River Barrow. The River Barrow rises in the Slieve Bloom Mountains and from Monasterevan flows directly south. It is a big river, draining a large area, and after heavy rain it can flood quickly. The flow is moderate to fast in places. 