Definition of COFACTOR. 1. : the signed minor of an element of a square matrix or of a determinant with the sign positive if the sum of the column number and row number of the element is even and with the sign negative if it is odd. 2. : a substance that acts with another substance to bring about certain effects; especially: coenzyme.
A coenzyme is a type of cofactor. It is the loosely bound cofactor to an enzyme. Cofactors are chemical compounds that are bound to proteins. A cofactor is a non-protein chemical compound, while a coenzyme is a non-protein molecule. It is important to understand that, in our body, enzymes are very important. They help in regulating metabolism
Coenzymes. Coenzymes: A nonprotein component of enzymes is called the cofactor. If the cofactor is organic, then it is called a coenzyme. Coenzymes are relatively small molecules compared to the protein part of the enzyme. Many of the coenzymes are derived from vitamins. 
Cofactors, mostly metal ions or coenzymes, are inorganic and organic chemicals that assist enzymes during the catalysis of reactions. Coenzymes are non-protein organic molecules that are mostly derivatives of vitamins soluble in water by phosphorylation; they bind apoenzyme to proteins to produce an active holoenzyme. A coenzyme is a small, organic, non-protein molecules that carries chemical groups between enzymes. It is the cofactor for the enzyme and does not form a permanent part in the enzyme's structure. Sometimes, they are called cosubstrates and are considered substrates that are loosely bound to the enzyme.
coenzymes are organic molecules that are required by certain enzymes to carry out catalysis. They bind to the active site of the enzyme and participate in catalysis but are not considered substrates of the reaction. coenzymes often function as intermediate carriers of electrons, specific atoms or functional groups that are transfered in the overall reaction.
A cofactor is a non-protein chemical compound that is required for the protein's biological activity. These proteins are commonly enzymes, and cofactors can be considered helper molecules that assist in biochemical transformations. A cofactor that is tightly or even covalently bound is termed a prosthetic group. Some sources also limit the use of the term cofactor to inorganic substances. An inactive enzyme without the cofactor is called an apoenzyme, while the complete enzyme with cofactor is called a holoenzyme.
Coenzymes. A specific type of cofactor, coenzymes, are organic molecules that bind to enzymes and help them function. The key here is that they're organic. 'Organic' does not mean you'll find them in a special aisle in the grocery store. Rather, organic molecules are simply molecules that contain carbon. 
A cofactor is a chemical compound that is required for certain enzymes — called conjugated enzymes — to become active. Vitamins and minerals serve as the cofactors required by the human body to function properly. 
Cofactor. Definition. noun, plural: cofactors. (biochemistry) An inorganic complement of an enzyme reaction. Supplement. Cofactors pertain to the inorganic substances that are needed by certain enzymes to carry out catalysis of a particular chemical reaction. Cofactors are non-protein compounds. However, they are involved in catalysis by binding to enzymes at their specific binding sites in order to activate them.
Cofactors can be subdivided into either one or more inorganic ions, or a complex organic or metalloorganic molecule called a coenzyme; most of which are derived from vitamins and from required organic nutrients in small amounts. A cofactor that is tightly or even covalently bound is termed a prosthetic group. Some sources also limit the use of the term cofactor to inorganic substances. An inactive enzyme without the cofactor is called an apoenzyme, while the complete enzyme with cofactor is called a holoenzyme.