The person who wrote the original Star Wars books which the film was based on was George Lucas, there have however been a countless amount of other star wars books released and enjoyed by the millions of fans, these authors include Jude Watson, Karen Traviss, Elizabeth Hand, Paul and Hollace Davids and countless others. Answer by Valentine62 (2131). A variety of authors including Timothy Zahn, Terry Bisson, Karen Travvis, Michael Reeves, James Luceno, and Elizabeth Hand, wrote a large number of the 'Star Wars' fiction books.
This is a list of Star Wars novels, novellas, and short stories. Beginning with the release of Star Wars Episode I: The Phantom Menace, Lucasfilm has divided its titles by era with symbols designating such. Consequently this list does not include journals, graphic novels, or comic books. CANON The new primary Star Wars canon includes all the movie episodes, the television shows Star Wars: The Clone Wars and Star Wars Rebels, books, comics, and video games published after April 2014. These stories are coordinated by the Lucasfilm Story Team to be consistent with both each other and the upcoming films.
Answer by Skettimon. Confidence votes 12. George Lucas. George Lucas did not create, write or come up with the Star Wars series by himself. He was merely a director to the movie. Oliver Simon wrote the original series books. George Lucas then bought the rights to the storyline and characters, re-wrote the series, and made them into a movie
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Before I can give an accurate answer to your question I need to know what you mean by Original Star Wars Books. One of the many things that makes the Star Wars saga unique is that they were NOT made from books ... the books were written about the movies ... all 6 of them ... 7 if you count the animated movie. In the early 70s Lucas began working on a massive epic story that he first titled The Star War
20th Century Fox retains the physical distribution rights to the first two Star Wars trilogies, owning permanent rights for the original 1977 film and holding the rights to Episodes I – III, V and VI until May 2020. Star Wars also holds a Guinness World Records title for the Most successful film merchandising franchise.. As of 2012, the total value of the Star Wars franchise was estimated at USD $30.7 billion (£19.51 billion), including box-office receipts as well as profits from their video games and DVD sales.
A number of different authors have written licensed Star Wars novels. Alan Dean Foster ghostwrote the novelizations of the original trilogy, while Terry Brooks, R.A. Salvatore, and Matthew Stover respectively wrote the novelizations of the prequel trilogy. Other notable others of Star Wars novels include Timothy Zahn, Michael Stackpole, and Kevin J. Anderson. Answer by Valentine62 (2131). A variety of authors including Timothy Zahn, Terry Bisson, Karen Travvis, Michael Reeves, James Luceno, and Elizabeth Hand, wrote a large number of the 'Star Wars' fiction books.
You may be looking for other things related to A New Hope. The Star Wars Episode IV: A New Hope novelization, originally entitled Star Wars: From the Adventures of Luke Skywalker, was the official novel adaptation of the film Star Wars: Episode IV A New Hope, published in 1976 by Ballantine Books. It was ghostwritten by Alan Dean Foster, but credited to George Lucas. 
The first film in the series, Star Wars (later subtitled Episode IV: A New Hope), was released on May 25, 1977 by 20th Century Fox, and became a worldwide pop culture phenomenon. It was followed by two sequels, released in 1980 and 1983. A prequel trilogy of films were later released between 1999 and 2005. Star Wars also holds a Guinness World Records title for the Most successful film merchandising franchise.. As of 2012, the total value of the Star Wars franchise was estimated at USD $30.7 billion (£19.51 billion), including box-office receipts as well as profits from their video games and DVD sales.
The Star Wars books were written by Troy Denning, Christie Golden, Jude Watson, Aaron Allston. However,there are some people who claimed that the original texts were written by Oliver Simon in 1969. Answer by Valentine62 (2131). A variety of authors including Timothy Zahn, Terry Bisson, Karen Travvis, Michael Reeves, James Luceno, and Elizabeth Hand, wrote a large number of the 'Star Wars' fiction books.