Introduction (from Wikipedia). A purine is a heterocyclic aromatic organic compound, consisting of a pyrimidine ring fused to an imidazole ring. Pyrimidine is a heterocyclic aromatic organic compound similar to benzene and pyridine, containing two nitrogen atoms at positions 1 and 3 of the six-member ring. The two-carbon nitrogen ring bases (adenine and guanine) are purines, while the one-carbon nitrogen ring bases (thymine and cytosine) are pyrimidines.
pyrimidine. an organic compound that is the fundamental form of the pyrimidine bases, including uracil, cytosine and thymine. A pyrimidine. cytosine. 
Pyrimidine is an aromatic heterocyclic organic compound similar to pyridine. One of the three diazines (six-membered heterocyclics with two nitrogen atoms in the ring), it has the nitrogen atoms at positions 1 and 3 in the ring. The pyrimidine ring system has wide occurrence in nature as substituted and ring fused compounds and derivatives, including the nucleotides, thiamine (vitaminB1) and alloxan. It is also found in many synthetic compounds such as barbiturates and the HIV drug, zidovudine
Thus, in DNA, the purines adenine (A) and guanine (G) pair up with the pyrimidines thymine (T) and cytosine (C), respectively. In RNA, the complement of adenine (A) is uracil (U) instead of thymine (T), so the pairs that form are adenine: uracil and guanine: cytosine. The pyrimidine ring system has wide occurrence in nature as substituted and ring fused compounds and derivatives, including the nucleotides, thiamine (vitaminB1) and alloxan. It is also found in many synthetic compounds such as barbiturates and the HIV drug, zidovud
1. A single-ringed, crystalline organic base, C 4 H 4 N 2, that forms uracil, cytosine, or thymine and is the parent compound of many drugs, including the barbiturates. 2. Any of several organic compounds derived from or structurally related to pyrimidine, especially the nitrogen bases uracil, cytosine, and thymine. 1. a heterocyclic compound, C 4 H 4 N 2, that is the basis of several important biochemical substances. 2. one of several pyrimidine derivatives, esp. the bases cytosine, thymine, and uracil, which are fundamental constituents of nucleic acids.
Purines and Pyrimidines are nitrogenous bases that make up the two different kinds of nucleotide bases in DNA and RNA. The two-carbon nitrogen ring bases (adenine and guanine) are purines, while the one-carbon nitrogen ring bases (thymine and cytosine) are pyrimidines.
Pyrimidine is group of molecules that are part of the DNA and RNA structure. These molecules feature a single ring structure made of six atoms. When a sugar group is bound to a pyrimidine or a purine, it is called a nucleoside. Deoxycytosine and (deoxy)thymidine are the pyrimidine nucleosides and deoxyadenosine and deoxyguanosine are the purine nucleosides.
Cytosine, thymine, and uracil are examples for pyrimidine bases. Adenine and guanine are the two purine bases. DNA has adenine, Guanine, cytosine, and thymine bases, whereas RNA has A, G, C, and uracil (instead of thymine). In DNA and RNA, complimentary bases form hydrogen bonds between them. That is adenine: thiamine/ uracil and guanine: cytosine are complimentary to each other. • Pyrimidine has one ring and purine has two rings. • Purine has a pyrimidine ring and an imidazole ring. • Adenine and guanine are the purine derivative present in nucleic acids whereas cytosine, uracil and thymine are the pyrimidine derivatives present in the nucleic acids.
In nucleic acids, three types of nucleobases are pyrimidine derivatives: cytosine (C), thymine (T), and uracil (U). The pyrimidine ring system has wide occurrence in nature as substituted and ring fused compounds and derivatives, including the nucleotides, thiamine (vitaminB1) and alloxan. It is also found in many synthetic compounds such as barbiturates and the HIV drug, zidovudine