Schnatter was born in Jeffersonville, Indiana on November 23, 1961, and graduated from Jeffersonville High School in 1980, then earned a business degree from Ball State University in 1983. In the 1980s, John Schnatter's father co-owned Mick's Lounge, a tavern in Jeffersonville. He used the leftover funds to start Papa John's. Decades later, he offered a reward of $250,000 for finding the car, and on August 26, 2009, Schnatter bought the Camaro back for $250,000.
Melanie Warner Few companies have applied this appeal more literally than Papa John's, which for years has boasted Better pizza. Better ingredients.. Printed on every Papa John's pizza box is a little story: When I founded Papa John's in 1984, my mission was to build a better pizza, says Papa John Schnatter. By not disclosing what's in its food, Papa John's is revealing that it doesn't think too much of its customers. It is either asking customers for blind trust or assuming people are too stupid and complacent to ask questions. When we do ask questions, they refuse to answer.
The Papa John's restaurant franchise was founded in 1983 when Papa John Schnatter knocked out a broom closet in the back of his father's tavern, Mick's Lounge, in Jeffersonville, Indiana. In August 2015, Papa John's agreed to pay $12.3 million to settle a class-action lawsuit, filed in 2009, in which the company was accused of undercompensating 19,000 delivery drivers in the states of Arizona, Florida, Illinois, Maryland, Missouri and North Carolina.
This is a beautiful home and Papa John and his family deserves to live in it happily. PAPA JOHN himself created the pizza business which provides jobs for thousands of people. These people should be happy they have jobs. Square Feet: 40,000. This 40,000 square foot mega-mansion is owned by John Schnatter. Schnatter is the founder, chairman, and CEO of the Papa John’s pizza chain. The castle-like mansion was designed by Don Evans, and Orlando architect.
In 1983, Schnatter sold his 1971 Chevrolet Camaro to help his father's struggling business. He used the leftover funds to start Papa John's. Decades later, he offered a reward of $250,000 for finding the car, and on August 26, 2009, Schnatter bought the Camaro back for $250,000. In celebration, Papa John's offered a free pizza to anyone who owned a Camaro
Company Overview. Papa John's is one of the largest pizza delivery and take-out companies in the US. The organization is holding second position after the two other popular pizza delivery brands-Domino's Pizza and Pizza Hut. The company has its headquarters in Kentucky, Louisville and in Jeffersontown. 
This home of John Schnatter is located in Anchorage, Kentucky. Anchorage is an affluent suburb of Louisville. John Schnatter is best known as the Founder, Chairman and CEO of Papa John’s International, Inc. He is recognizable from the Papa John’s television commercials as he is one of the two most effective spokesmen in the country. John Schnatter has an estimated net worth of $600 million. Papa John’s brings in over 1.1B in revenue. John sold some of his shares for 330.9M over time, but still retains about 6M shares, worth an additional 339M. John has given 30M in charitable contributions to the communit
Papa John Schnatter is experiencing a major public relations backlash this week after announcing that he will be forced to raise the price of pizza by 14 cents because President Obama was re-elected. Shnatter believes ObamaCare will cost his franchise owners an extra $8 million per year. You can see the entrance to the underground garage in the lower left of this photo: Papa John Schnatter's House. Papa John Schnatter's House from another Angle: John Schnatter's House From Above. I'm a little torn on how to feel about Papa John Schnatter.