Cycles of physical cravings and withdrawal symptoms, including shaking, sweating, nausea and dizziness, are part of the reason alcoholism has been classified as a physical disease. As alcoholism is an addiction, it is considered a disease of the brain. The brain has been physically altered by extended exposure to alcohol, causing it to function differently and therefore creating addictive behavior. Symptoms of alcoholism include: 1  Physical craving or urge to drink. 2  Dependence that includes withdrawal symptoms when drinking is stopped. 3  Increased tolerance levels in which more alcohol is required to obtain the same effects.
Compounding on this disease model, the theory of addiction being genetic or hereditary was born. This theory states that addicts may have certain predispositions to addiction, or genes that may help determine whether or not a person becomes an alcoholic. Symptoms of alcoholism include: 1  Physical craving or urge to drink. 2  Dependence that includes withdrawal symptoms when drinking is stopped. 3  Increased tolerance levels in which more alcohol is required to obtain the same effects.
People who are addicted to alcohol are known as alcoholics; the name associated with alcohol addiction is known as alcoholism. Addiction to alcohol is defined by the psychological and physical dependency that drives a person to consume alcohol despite any negative consequences. Alcoholism is a Disease. An addiction to alcohol can take over your life and hurt the people closest to you. If you feel like your alcohol consumption is out of control, and you are ready to be free from its power over you, then don’t wait any longer, call The Watershed today.
For many decades it's been widely accepted that alcoholism (or addiction) is a disease. The disease concept is taught in addiction training programs and told to patients in treatment programs. It is unquestioned by public figures and the media. I agree that addiction is not a disease, but believe that it IS an illness. The reward-seeking element can rapidly disappear, even if this is what got an addict started in the first place. This is rapidly replaced by a physical need, mainly a need to avoid the intense pain of withdrawal.
Theory [edit]. Alcoholism is a chronic problem. However, if managed properly, damage to the brain can be stopped and to some extent reversed. In addition to problem drinking, the disease is characterized by symptoms including an impaired control over alcohol, compulsive thoughts about alcohol, and distorted thinking. Alcoholism can also lead indirectly, through excess consumption, to physical dependence on alcohol, and diseases such as cirrhosis of the liver. The risk of developing alcoholism depends on many factors, such as environment.
There is no middle ground. When we view addiction as a disease, there is one dividing line. On one side of this line is the disease of addiction or alcoholism. On the other side of the line might be occasional and infrequent alcohol problems, or just abstainers or social drinkers, but no alcoholics. There might also be individuals who are progressing toward crossing the line.. It is not as simple as the disease model where you either have addiction (disease) or you don't. From the BPSS model, addiction problems may range in severity from none, to severe and they may change across time. For instance, using alcohol as an example, you could have abstainers.
Addiction is defined as a chronic, relapsing brain disease that is characterized by compulsive drug seeking and use, despite harmful consequences. † It is considered a brain disease because drugs change the brain—they change its structure and how it works. N. Volkow and H. Schelbert. Addiction is a lot like other diseases, such as heart disease. Both disrupt the normal, healthy functioning of the underlying organ, have serious harmful consequences, and are preventable and treatable, but if left untreated, can last a lifetime.
Long-Term Health Risks. Over time, excessive alcohol use can lead to the development of chronic diseases and other serious problems including: 1  High blood pressure, heart disease, stroke, liver disease, and digestive problems. 2  6,16-21. 3  Cancer of the breast, mouth, throat, esophagus, liver, and colon. 4  6,22. 
The modern disease theory of alcoholism states that problem drinking is sometimes caused by a disease of the brain, characterized by altered brain structure and function. The American Medical Association (AMA) had declared that alcoholism was an illness in 1956. Alcoholism can also lead indirectly, through excess consumption, to physical dependence on alcohol, and diseases such as cirrhosis of the liver. The risk of developing alcoholism depends on many factors, such as environment.