Locate the large vein to the right (again, the specimen's right) of the aorta. This is the posterior vena cava. This vessel is formed by the confluence of the common iliac veins. Each common iliac vein is in turn formed by the union of the external and internal iliac veins. The external iliac vein is the proximal continuation of the femoral vein which drains the hindleg. Each brachiocephalic vein is formed by the confluence of the internal and external jugular veins. The external jugular veins drain the superficial parts of the head, and parts of the neck, shoulder and arm. The internal jugular veins drain the deeper parts of the head and brain.
The internal iliac vein starts at the upper region of the greater sciatic foramen, a large gap in the bone of the pelvis on each side of the sacrum. It continues behind the internal iliac artery and reaches the pelvis. From there it meets the external iliac vein, and together they become the common iliac vein. Eventually this vein will flow into the inferior vena cava, which is the largest vein in the human body. These veins drain blood away from the reproductive, urinary, and digestive organs. The internal iliac vein and its branches is are part of several venous plexuses, which are interconnected networks of veins.
Internal Iliac Vein. The internal iliac veins come from deep in the pelvic region and rise to the lower portion of the abdomen, where they join with the right and left external iliac veins and form the common iliac veins. These, in turn, merge to produce the inferior vena cava at the level of the fifth lumbar vertebra. These veins have many interconnections ... Click to read more below. The internal iliac veins come from deep in the pelvic region and rise to the lower portion of the abdomen, where they join with the right and left external iliac veins and form the common iliac veins.
The vein accompanying the common iliac artery; it is formed by the union of the external and internal iliac veins, and it ends by merging with the opposite common iliac vein to form the inferior vena cava. The continuation of the femoral vein proximal to the inguinal ligament; it accompanies the external iliac artery, and it joins the internal iliac vein to form the common iliac vein. Tributaries of the external iliac vein include the inferior epigastric, deep circumflex iliac, and pubic veins.
The vein that accompanies the internal iliac artery; it merges with the external iliac vein to form the common iliac vein. Tributaries of the internal iliac vein include the gluteal, internal pudendal, obturator, lateral sacral, anterior sacral, middle rectal, vesical, uterine, and vaginal veins. The continuation of the femoral vein proximal to the inguinal ligament; it accompanies the external iliac artery, and it joins the internal iliac vein to form the common iliac vein. Tributaries of the external iliac vein include the inferior epigastric, deep circumflex iliac, and pubic veins.
The function of the common iliac vein is to drain into the inferior  vena cava. The common iliac vein forms in the abdomen and is a  connection of the internal and external … iliac vein. Bozidar. 42,785 Contributions. 
In human anatomy, iliac vein refers to several anatomical structures located in the pelvis 1  : Common iliac vein, formed by the external and internal iliac veins, drains into the inferior vena cava. 1 Deep circumflex iliac vein, formed by the union of the venae comitantes of the deep iliac circumflex artery, and joins the external iliac vein. 2  External iliac vein, terminates at the common iliac vein, drains the femoral vein. 3  Internal iliac vein, terminates at the common iliac vein, drains pelvic organs and perineum.
1 Common iliac vein, formed by the external and internal iliac veins, drains into the inferior vena cava. 2  Deep circumflex iliac vein, formed by the union of the venae comitantes of the deep iliac circumflex artery, and joins the external iliac vein. 1 Deep circumflex iliac vein, formed by the union of the venae comitantes of the deep iliac circumflex artery, and joins the external iliac vein. 2  External iliac vein, terminates at the common iliac vein, drains the femoral vein. 3  Internal iliac vein, terminates at the common iliac vein, drains pelvic organs and perineum.