Metalloid Definition: an element with properties intermediate between those of a metal and nonmetal. Metalloids may also be defined according to their location on the Periodic Table. 
1 (chemistry) An element, such as silicon or germanium, intermediate in properties between that of a metal and a nonmetal; especially one that exhibits the external characteristics of a metal, but behaves chemically more as a nonmetal. noun. 1  A nonmetallic element, such as arsenic, that has some of the chemical properties of a metal. 2  A nonmetallic element, such as carbon, that can form an alloy with metals.
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: metalloid (Noun). An element, such as silicon or germanium, intermediate in properties between that of a metal and a nonmetal; especially one that exhibits the external characteristics of a metal, but behaves chemically more as a nonmetal. 
Adj. 1. metalloid-of or being a nonmetallic element that has some of the properties of metal; arsenic is a metalloid element. nonmetal, nonmetallic-not containing or resembling or characteristic of a metal; nonmetallic elements. Translations. n. 1. A nonmetallic element, such as arsenic, that has some of the chemical properties of a metal. Most metalloids behave as semiconductors. 2. A nonmetallic element, such as carbon, that can form an alloy with metals. adj. also met·al·loi·dal (mĕt′l-oid′l). 1. Relating to or having the properties of a metalloid. 2. Having the appearance of a metal
1. of or being a nonmetallic element that has some of the properties of metal. Familiarity information: METALLOID used as an adjective is very rare. Dictionary entry details. • METALLOID (adjective). 
Definition of METALLOID. 1. : an element intermediate in properties between the typical metals and nonmetals. 2. : a nonmetal that can combine with a metal to form an alloy. See metalloid defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 
n. 1. A nonmetallic element, such as arsenic, that has some of the chemical properties of a metal. Most metalloids behave as semiconductors. 2. A nonmetallic element, such as carbon, that can form an alloy with metals. adj. also met·al·loi·dal (mĕt′l-oid′l). 1. Relating to or having the properties of a metalloid. 2. Having the appearance of a metal.
metalloid. Noun. (plural metalloids). ( 1 chemistry) An element, such as silicon or germanium, intermediate in properties between that of a metal and a nonmetal; especially one that exhibits the external characteristics of a metal, but behaves chemically more as a nonmetal. noun. 1  A nonmetallic element, such as arsenic, that has some of the chemical properties of a metal. 2  A nonmetallic element, such as carbon, that can form an alloy with metals.
A metalloid is a chemical element with properties in between, or that are a mixture of, those of metals and nonmetals. There is no standard definition of a metalloid, nor is there complete agreement as to which elements are appropriately classified as such. Despite this lack of specificity, the term remains in use in the literature of chemistry.