The Mexican peso (sign : $ ; code: MXN) is the currency of Mexico. Modern peso and dollar currencies have a common origin in the 15th–19th century Spanish dollar, most continuing to use its sign, $ . On January 1, 1993 the Bank of Mexico introduced a new currency, the nuevo peso (new peso, or MXN), written N$ followed by the numerical amount. One new peso, or N$1.00, was equal to 1000 of the obsolete MXP pesos.
Listen. In Mexico, merchants and businesses are no longer allowed to change U.S. dollars for pesos, but they will tell you the location of the nearest currency exchange office. If you have U.S. dollars, there are some places where you can exchange them for Mexican pesos, for example: - Currency exchange offices: You will usually find a currency exchange counter at international airports throughout Mexico; these can be identified by the “Exchange” sign.
Know the Currency. In Mexico, the national currency is the Mexican peso (MXN), so your first money matter is to get familiar with these colorful bills. The most common bills come in denominations of 20, 50, 100, 200 and 500. They come in a range of hues, including purple, blue and yellow
Exchange Rate Mexico City. Use the currency converter below to calculate the current exchange rate for the city of Mexico City. The currency used in Mexico City is the Mexican Peso. Mexico City is the capital of Mexico. If you are traveling to Mexico City, you will need to exchange your currency for the Mexican Peso. You may exchange your money for the Mexican Peso at most Mexico City banks or at specialized stores called Foreign Exchange Bureaus.
MXN-Mexican Peso. Mexico, Peso. The Mexican Peso is the currency of Mexico. Our currency rankings show that the most popular Mexico Peso exchange rate is the MXN to USD rate. The currency code for Pesos is MXN, and the currency symbol is $. Below, you'll find Mexican Peso rates and a currency converter. You can also subscribe to our currency newsletters with daily rates and analysis, read the XE Currency Blog, or take MXN rates on the go with our XE Currency Apps and website. More info ►.
Been living in Ohio, California, Mexico, Portugal and Spain. Fell in love with Mexico almost to the point of obsession ;). The Mexican Peso is the currency of Mexico; its symbol and code are $ and MXN. The most important currencies' exchange rates for Mexican Pesos (Jan 2013) are: Mexican denominations include 0.05 (five cents or centavos), 0.10, 0.20, 0.50, 1, 2, 5, and 10 coins as well as 20, 50, 100, 200, 500 and 1000 bank notes. 
Mexican Coins in Circulation Today. Mexican cent coins are minted in denominations of 5, 10, 20 and 50 centavo (cent) pieces; however, it’s very rare to see coins of less than 50 centavos these days. Peso coins in denominations of $1 $2, $5, and $10 are used frequently in Mexico, especially for paying small tips. There is a limited edition $20 peso coin in circulation, but these are rarely seen as people collect them
Mexico’s currency is the Mexican Peso. There are one hundred Mexican cents (centavos) to every peso. The symbol for the the Mexican Peso is $. To distinguish this from the Dollar, you sometimes see it presented as MX$ or the value with the letters “MN” after it, e.g. $100 MN. Mexican cent coins are minted in denominations of 5, 10, 20 and 50 centavo (cent) pieces; however, it’s very rare to see coins of less than 50 centavos these days. Peso coins in denominations of $1 $2, $5, and $10 are used frequently in Mexico, especially for paying small tips.