140. This Chapter assesses the police's understanding of human rights and the extent to which operational policing currently ensures that the police uphold and support human rights when policing protests. 1 human rights is explicitly referred to within the PSNI's policy;[ 282] the PSNI's Code of Ethics sets out a comprehensive code of conduct for all police officers, based on the ECHR and other international human rights instruments relating to policing.
Ms Sim, who speaks for the Association of Chief Police Officers on public order events, also told the Commons Joint Committee on Human Rights of concerns over the Human Rights Act and its impact on policing. It (the Act) is an issue that's currently an ongoing question around risk aversion, she said. I don't think the human rights aspect is any different from the health and safety aspect if I'm being perfectly blunt. I think they're all things that I think, if we're not careful, can lead to officers being risk averse.
This is why both the police and prison services have been reviewing their practices to identify those which may not be compatible with the European Convention. In the case of the police, each force has designated a human rights champion - a senior officer-who has been responsible for supervising an audit of functions. Lawyers believe that Article 2, the right to life, will be the basis for a number of significant challenges. This will not only affect situations where the police take a life-for example by use of firearms-but also deaths in custody, where it may be argued that officers have failed to preserve a life.
This article explores the impact of the Human Rights Act (HRA) 1998 on the police service of England and Wales. An important result of this is that the HRA is not used to achieve a balance between individual rights and community interests, but becomes a framework for mandating police decision making and protecting officers from criticism and blame.
One of the consequences of the Human Rights Act will be an obligation on the police to explain and justify their actions in a way which they have not had to hitherto. To comply with this, the Use of Firearms Manual and Public Order Manual will be published for the first time. Lawyers believe that Article 2, the right to life, will be the basis for a number of significant challenges. This will not only affect situations where the police take a life-for example by use of firearms-but also deaths in custody, where it may be argued that officers have failed to preserve a life.
This is a pre-copy-editing, author-produced PDF of an article accepted for publication in British Journal of Criminology following peer review. The definitive publisher-authenticated version Bullock KA, Johnson P (2012). The Impact of the Human Rights Act on Policing in England and Wales. Tools. Tools. Tools. Bullock, KA and Johnson, P (2012) The Impact of the Human Rights Act on Policing in England and Wales British Journal of Criminology, 52 (3). Whilst the fundamental aim of the HRA is to protect and enhance citizens’ rights and freedoms, we argue that there is little evidence to suggest that it has promoted a greater awareness of, and respect for, human rights amongst police officers.
The Human Rights Act. The Human Rights Act is a UK law passed in 1998. It means that you can defend your rights in the UK courts and that public organisations (including the Government, the Police and local councils) must treat everyone equally, with fairness, dignity and respect. The Human Rights Act protects all of us-young and old, rich and poor. What this actually means is that it does two things: 1  Judges must read and give effect to legislation (other laws) in a way which is compatible with the Convention rights; 2  It is unlawful for a public authority to act in a way which is incompatible with a Convention right.
Rights enforceable in UK law. This. means that it is unlawful for a public. authority to act in a way that is. incompatible with a Convention right. A person who feels that one or more of. their rights has been breached by a. public authority can raise that human. rights issue in the appropriate court or. tribunal. 
NOTE This guide is designed to be a readily accessible andportable reference for police officers. It is organizedinto major human rights topics of concern to the police,such as investigations, arrest, detention and the use offorce. 