Thanks! Right click speaker icon, go to playback devices, right click the speaker option (TV option is probably missing), then hit Show disabled devices, enable hdmi through tv, then your done. zerrryu said: I connected my paltop to tv through HDMI cable, the sound goes through laptop, but not through tv. May 12, 2014 10:30:46 PM. Right click speaker icon, go to playback devices, right click the speaker option (TV option is probably missing), then hit Show disabled devices, enable hdmi through tv, then your done.
You have to change your sound default under sound. My laptop has my realtek sound card as the default sound card when it's not connected to TV. Then when its connected to another device My graphics card pops icon (which is ATI) up under sound and i make that the default. HDMI allows video and sound audio devices and the Graphics card controls that with HDMI. I connected my paltop to tv through HDMI cable, the sound goes through laptop, but not through tv. May 12, 2014 10:30:46 PM. Right click speaker icon, go to playback devices, right click the speaker option (TV option is probably missing), then hit Show disabled devices, enable hdmi through tv, then your done
I wiped the computer and put Windows XP back on it. When I did that, my computer stopped working. The speakers are still connected but it says theres a problem. Help! Add your answer. Source. 
You cannot hear music or sounds that play in your presentation You need speakers and a sound card on your computer to play music and sounds. To find out what is installed on your computer and what settings are in use, check the multimedia and sounds settings in Control Panel. 
I connected my laptop to my TV through an HDMI cable, the sound goes through the laptop, but not through the TV. I checked in control panel under playback, and right clicked to show disabled devices, and the TV isn't listed. May 12, 2014 10:30:46 PM. Right click speaker icon, go to playback devices, right click the speaker option (TV option is probably missing), then hit Show disabled devices, enable hdmi through tv, then your done. I connected my paltop to tv through HDMI cable, the sound goes through laptop, but not through tv.
1 When I am in voice chat with someone the sound of a video/game on my computer goes through speakers, instead of headphones! solution. 2  i have sound through my tv when the hdmi cable is connected but no sound on my laptop when i disconnect the hdmi cable solution. 1 When I connect my lenovo laptop to my Toshiba TV the picture goes through but the sound doesn't solution. 2  Solvedsound not playing through any speakers but only through a tv connected via HDMI. help! solution.
1 HDMI from laptop won't play sound through TV solution. 2  Solvedwhen I connect my laptop (acer ,window 8) to my TV (Toshiba) through HDMI, there'e no signal solution. 3  SolvedI recently connected my Xbox to my TV through a DVI HDMI adaptor but I am not getting any sound. 1 When I connect my lenovo laptop to my Toshiba TV the picture goes through but the sound doesn't solution. 2  Solvedsound not playing through any speakers but only through a tv connected via HDMI. help! solution.
1 i have sound through my tv when the hdmi cable is connected but no sound on my laptop when i disconnect the hdmi cable solution. 2  SolvedJust wondering if its possible to have sound from both PC speakers and TV speakers playing through HDMI solution. 1 When I connect my lenovo laptop to my Toshiba TV the picture goes through but the sound doesn't solution. 2  Solvedsound not playing through any speakers but only through a tv connected via HDMI. help! solution.
1 Solvedsound not playing through any speakers but only through a tv connected via HDMI. help! solution. 2  SolvedWhen I connect my laptop to TV via HDMI cable, I have sound on laptop but not through TV solution. 3  SolvedWanting sound through my tv instead of speakers. 1 When I connect my lenovo laptop to my Toshiba TV the picture goes through but the sound doesn't solution. 2  Solvedsound not playing through any speakers but only through a tv connected via HDMI. help! solution.