A distributed ledger is a digital record of who-owns-what. But unlike traditional database technology, there is no central administrator of the ledger, nor is there a central data store. 
What awaits us is never what we were awaiting French Fintech Investor, circa July 2015, Washington DC. I uttered the words Bitcoin is Dead at FintechStage in Barcelona a few months ago, see previous post here. Strong words for a non-techie who has a limited understanding of the subtleties of all things crypto. BTW, this is your cue to mock me
Ripple relies on a common shared ledger, which is a distributed database storing information about all Ripple accounts. The network is managed by a network of independent validating servers that constantly compare their transaction records.. Servers could belong to anyone, including banks or market makers. Within the network’s currency exchange, XRP are traded freely against other currencies, and its market price fluctuates against dollars, euros, yen, bitcoin, etc. Ripple's design focus is as a currency exchange and a distributed-RTGS, as opposed to emphasizing XRP as an alternative currency.
The distributed ledger is “a way to create new securities that could solve some of the problems that existed in the more opaque, less transparent, less liquid markets,” Smith said. “We started to research technology stacks that allow us to do that.”. Interest in the use of blockchain technology is growing rapidly with the realization of its importance in the creation of trusted networks to more rapidly and cost-efficiently trade and process financial transactions.
Ripple is a real-time gross settlement system (RTGS), currency exchange and remittance network by Ripple Labs. Also called the Ripple Transaction Protocol (RTXP) or Ripple protocol, it is built upon a distributed open source Internet protocol, consensus ledger and native currency called XRP (ripples). Within the network’s currency exchange, XRP are traded freely against other currencies, and its market price fluctuates against dollars, euros, yen, bitcoin, etc. Ripple's design focus is as a currency exchange and a distributed-RTGS, as opposed to emphasizing XRP as an alternative currency.
This is the first in a series of posts in which I aim to discuss what’s wrong with accounting and audit and how distributed ledgers may help to solve some of these problems. 1 Lightweight and simple to use. 2  I believe this would take the form of a cloud accounting package; a simple immutable append-only database to record journals and a set of API end-points which allow developers to build applications on top of the ledger. 3  Easy interoperability with other ledgers and data stores.
At its core, Ripple is based around a shared, public database or ledger, which uses a consensus process that allows for payments, exchanges and remittance in a distributed process. The security of the Ripple consensus algorithm was challenged by rivals in 2014, with Ripple Labs defending the safety of the system. Within the network’s currency exchange, XRP are traded freely against other currencies, and its market price fluctuates against dollars, euros, yen, bitcoin, etc. Ripple's design focus is as a currency exchange and a distributed-RTGS, as opposed to emphasizing XRP as an alternative currency.
A block chain or blockchain is a distributed database that maintains a continuously growing list of data records that are hardened against tampering and revision, even by operators of the data store's nodes. 1 The ability for a large number of nodes to converge on a single consensus of the most up-to-date version of a large data set such as a ledger, even when the nodes are run anonymously, have poor connectivity with one another, and have operators who may be dishonest or malicious.
Both parties to a Bitcoin transaction share the same ledger — the block chain. It follows that, with a bit of effort, any accounting for Bitcoin transactions can be performed algorithmically using pointers from a local ledger to the Bitcoin block chain. This is a clue for later. 1 Lightweight and simple to use. 2  I believe this would take the form of a cloud accounting package; a simple immutable append-only database to record journals and a set of API end-points which allow developers to build applications on top of the ledger. 3  Easy interoperability with other ledgers and data stores.
Distributed Ledgers: A FinTech Innovation. Distributed ledgers, the technology behind the Bitcoin blockchain, can be used to issue, trade and process an array of financial instruments on a single, global, decentralized peer-to-peer financial network. Interest in the use of blockchain technology is growing rapidly with the realization of its importance in the creation of trusted networks to more rapidly and cost-efficiently trade and process financial transactions.