Self-help services. Our self-help services operate 24 hours a day. We recommend you have your tax file number (TFN) or Australian Business Number (ABN) ready when you call. Small business after-hours call-back. An after-hours call back service is available for small businesses from 6.00pm to 9.00pm (AEST), Monday to Thursday, except national public holidays. To arrange a call back, use the Small Business Assist online booking formExternal Link or call 13 28 66.
Welcome to Access Manager. Access Manager allows you to control access by your staff to ATO online services for your business. The functions of Access Manager are described in Using Access Manager and the Sitemap. If you require further assistance please Contact Us. 
Welcome to the Tax Agent Portal. The Tax Agent Portal is your gateway to our online services. It provides easy and convenient access to information and allows you to conduct transactions with us in a secure online environment. For more information, visit Tax Agent Portal-home. If you require further assistance Contact us. For information about scheduled downtime and details of issues currently affecting the portals, visit our System maintenance and issues page.
Welcome to the BAS Agent Portal. The BAS Agent Portal is your gateway to our online services. It provides easy and convenient access to activity statement information and allows you to conduct transactions with us in a secure online environment. For more information, visit BAS Agents-home. If you require further information Contact Us. When accessing this portal, the following information is recorded for statistical purposes: 1  your agent number. 2  your user id, and. 3  the date and time that you logged in to the portal.
When accessing this portal, the following information is recorded for statistical purposes: 1  your Australian business number. 2  your user id, and. 3  the date and time that you logged in to the portal. Privacy. The ATO is a government agency bound by the Privacy Act 1988 in terms of collection and handling of personal information and tax file numbers (TFNs). For further information about privacy law notices for the Business Portal transactions, please go to ato.gov.au/privacy.
Guide for tax agents Tax agent services A reference for Tax Agent Portal, ELS and phone services Effective January 2010 Write your Tax agent number (TAN) here for easy reference. This guide provides information on the Tax Agent Portal, Electronic Lodgment Service and our phone services for tax agents. It gives you options to interact with us and helps you choose the most appropriate service for your enquiry.For more copies of this guide: ■ visit www.ato.gov.au/onlineordering and quote NAT 71498 ■ phone us on 1300 720 092 and quote Tax agent services guide.
Welcome to the Business Portal. The Business Portal is your gateway to our online services for businesses. It provides easy and convenient access to information and allows you to conduct transactions with us in a secure online environment. For more information, visit Business Portal Essentials. Privacy. The ATO is a government agency bound by the Privacy Act 1988 in terms of collection and handling of personal information and tax file numbers (TFNs). For further information about privacy law notices for the Business Portal transactions, please go to ato.gov.au/privacy.
The TPB Register contains registration details of registered and deregistered tax and BAS agents and tax (financial) advisers. 1  Generally, only registered tax and BAS agents can charge or receive a fee or other reward for providing tax agent or BAS services. 