To move just a saved world after you've installed Minecraft on the new computer, just copy that world's entire folder, with all subfolders and files. You will find the world's folder in your saves folder (see full path above). 1 Press the windows key + R. 2  Type %appdata% and press enter. 3  Go into the .minecraft folder. 4  If you go into the folder named saves, that will have all of your single player worlds in it, you can just copy the one you want from the old computer to the new one.
Answers. Best Answer: If you open up the old server folder, there should be a folder called WORLD or something like that. Just copy that folder and replace the one in the new server folder. What do you mean .minecraft server file. The .minecraft folder is minecraft itself, not the server folder. Source(s): Experience.
Copy your new world folder from your computer to the server. (Make sure you have placed it in the minecraft folder on your server and that you name the new world folder to world) Now you can restart your server by pressing the Start Server button in the mPanel control panel. Moving a world/map from your computer to your minecraft server. 1  Find the world you would like to use on your computer. 2  Turn your server off by going to your mPanel control panel and pressing the  Stop Server  button. 3  Log into your server using WinSCP or Cyberduck. 4  Once you are logged into your server. 5  Rename (or remove) your existing world 6  ... Co
I was able to. Yes, there are saves in %appdata%\roaming.minecraft\saves that you can use. All you need to do is drop it into the server folder after you have createde it and specify the in the server config file (World_Name=) and write the name of you world. share | improve this answer. edited Nov 30 '12 at 17:07. ProSay.
After that you only need internet for updates and servers. ----------------------------. this is what you do. 1. go to %appdata%. 2. copy and paste the .mincraft folder onto the USB. 3. plugin the USB to the 2nd PC you want a copy on. 4. copy the. minecraft folder to %appdata% on that PC you want minecraft on. 5. go to minecraft.net and download the launcher. 6. run and enjoy!
Now look for the name of the world you wish to transfer to another computer and copy that folder onto a storage device (usb flash drive, external hard drive, disc, whatever you use). The next step is to locate the same .minecraft folder on the other computer you want the files on. Go to the saves folder in THAT .minecraft folder and drop your world's folder into it. Now your world should show up when you start Minecraft on that other computer. In that folder you'll find another folder called .minecraft. Go into the .minecraft folder and you'll see all the folders Minecraft uses to run. Look for the folder called saves. In there should be the worlds you've made.
f you don't have it, change the settings for showing 'run' Then type in %appdata%\.minecraft\saves each folder in the saves folder with the world name is a world save copy the world save to cloud drive, flash stick etc. in another computer, open up %appdata\.minecraft\saves again and copy them in. You just go to your .minecraft folder (which is in our roaming folder, in the run program search %appdata% and you'll get your roaming folder) Then open the .minecraft folder, go to your saves folder, then drag and drop the world you want, into your flash drive folder.
Please be cautious with moving or modifying these files. It is advised that you to make a backup before you perform any actions in this folder. You can back up your files by copying them and storing them in another folder or on a USB drive. Start by finding your saves folder. You can find all Minecraft folders, including the saves folder, by going in to the game launcher:
Go to the %APPDATA% directory on your computer (this is assuming you use a PC). In that folder you'll find another folder called .minecraft. Go into the .minecraft folder and you'll see all the folders Minecraft uses to run. Look for the folder called saves. In there should be the worlds you've made.