Like other ferns, brackens do not have seeds or fruits, but the immature fronds, known as fiddleheads, are sometimes eaten, although some are thought to be carcinogenic. (see Poisoning). The word bracken is of Old Norse origin, related to Swedish braeken bräken And danish, bregne both meaning. fern Ferns (Pteridophyta) are vascular plants that have alternating generations, large plants that produce spores and small plants that produce sex cells (eggs and sperm). Brackens are noted for their large, highly divided leaves.
Bracken (Pteridium) is a genus of large, coarse ferns in the family Dennstaedtiaceae. Ferns (Pteridophyta) are vascular plants that have alternating generations, large plants that produce spores and small plants that produce sex cells (eggs and sperm). Brackens are noted for their large, highly divided leaves.
Photo courtesy: GlennFleishman. Ostrich ferns are the most common edible fiddle-ferns found in the North America. The fern is a clump forming (like an ostrich plume), deciduous plant, which typically grows in well-drained, moisture rich shady environments. The curly young shoots carry just 34 calories per 100 g. Nonetheless; their high-quality plant-nutrition profile consists of health benefiting antioxidants, vitamins, and omega-3, omega-6 essential fatty acids. Fresh fronds are very high in antioxidant vitamin-A, and carotenes.
The gametophytes of ferns, however, are very different from those of seed plants. Instead, they resemble liverworts. A fern gametophyte typically consists of: 1  Prothallus: A green, photosynthetic structure that is one cell thick, usually heart or kidney shaped, 3–10 mm long and 2–8 mm broad. They differ from mosses by being vascular (i.e. having water-conducting vessels). They have stems and leaves, like other vascular plants. Most ferns have what are called fiddleheads that expand into fronds, which are each delicately divided.
Most species need moist soil, high humidity and enough shade to maintain these conditions. Ferns are essentially wildlings; unlike many of the flowering plants, such as herbaceous perennials, they have not been hybridized for garden conditions. Before you begin your fern garden, observe the ferns growing naturally in your area. Most of these are available commercially.
A fern is a member of a group of approximately 12,000 species of vascular plants that reproduce via spores and have neither seeds nor flowers. They differ from mosses by being vascular (i.e. having water-conducting vessels). They have stems and leaves, like other vascular plants. Most ferns have what are called fiddleheads that expand into fronds, which are each delicately divided.
First, all plants undergo an alternation of generations, between a haploid gametophyte stage and a diploid sporophyte stage. In the most primitive plants, like mosses, the gametophyte is dominant (i.e. it's big and green). In higher plants like ferns and fern allies, the sporophyte stage is dominant. Gametophytes produce gametes (sperm and eggs) in a special structure called a gametangium (-ia), while sporophytes produce spores in a special structure called a sporangium (-ia). 
Fern. A fern is a leafy vascular plant that does not flower. Its leaves are called fronds, and it reproduces with the help of spores. There are many varieties of fern, around 12,000 species, making it the largest family of plants. Ferns are versatile plants; they grow in a variety of conditions all over the world, though most of them need a lot of moisture to survive. Ferns have been around for centuries with some fossils indicating up to 360 million years ago
Fiddlehead ferns nutrition facts. Fiddlehead ferns are young, tender, tightly furled new-growth shoots of fern family plant, usually of ostrich fern. The curly ferns are so named after their unique resemblance to fiddle (violin) head. The curly young shoots carry just 34 calories per 100 g. Nonetheless; their high-quality plant-nutrition profile consists of health benefiting antioxidants, vitamins, and omega-3, omega-6 essential fatty acids. Fresh fronds are very high in antioxidant vitamin-A, and carotenes.