You can trim the stems of tulips already drooping in a vase, for a quick pick-me-up. Tulip stems grow another inch or so after you place them in water, according to the University of Vermont Extension, so cutting them after they've grown a bit can perk them up.
Choose the Right Vase. Choose a vase that is tall enough to offer the tulips support. Avoid vases that curve outward at the top if you want your tulips to stay upright. As you can see below, if you use a wide topped vase the tulips will follow that arch. Fill your vase with clean cold water.
Warnings. 1  Do not place tulips in the same vase with daffodils or in the water in which daffodils have set. 2  Adding aspirin, lemon juice, pennies, soda and other mixtures to the water is only a myth for extending the life of cut tulips.
Recut the Stems. Recut the stems at least an inch from the previous cut while holding underwater. Remove all leaves that will be under the waterline in your vase and put in the vase while still in the florist wrap, this will offer support to your tulips as they “drink” up the water the first few hours.
· just now. Report Abuse. The issue there is that when you put tulips in water they continue growing and then droop because of their own weight. So, when you have fresh cut tulips to display in a vase make sure you put as little water as possible, no more than 5cm high. You have to avoid the direct sun on the vase too and change the water everyday. The saying goes: little water, but clean water everyday Hope you will enjoy your tulips for ever from now onwards.
Choose a vase that is tall enough to offer the tulips support. Avoid vases that curve outward at the top if you want your tulips to stay upright. As you can see below, if you use a wide topped vase the tulips will follow that arch.
1 Leaving tulips in the vase with a wrap around them for a couple of hours will increase the chances of keeping the stems straight. 2  Pierce the stem with a medium needle just below the flower. 3  It never fails to keep the flowers attractive for a week.
This will help the flower pull up water and keep them more ridgid-also keep them away from direct heat, ie: don't place vase over a radiator, heat doesn't help. Another solution is to just buy some new Tulips or Irises-just found 10 Tulips for under £10.