A mobile broadband modem in the ExpressCard form factor for laptop computers. HTC ThunderBolt, the second commercially available LTE smartphone. Mobile broadband is the marketing term for wireless Internet access through a portable modem, mobile phone, USB wireless modem, tablet or other mobile devices. The first wireless Internet access became available in 1991 as part of the second generation (2G) of mobile phone technology. Some mobile services allow more than one device to be connected to the Internet using a single cellular connection using a process called tethering. The bit rates available with Mobile broadband devices support voice and video as well as other data access.
Mobile internet is the wireless data service that allows you to connect to the full Internet on a mobile internet-capable device through T-Mobile's network. Mobile internet-capable Internet devices from T-Mobile® include tablets, Ultrabooks, mobile hotspots, and laptop sticks. 
Although broadband has a technical meaning, wireless-carrier marketing uses the phrase mobile broadband as a synonym for mobile Internet access. Some mobile services allow more than one device to be connected to the Internet using a single cellular connection using a process called tethering. The bit rates available with Mobile broadband devices support voice and video as well as other data access.
This is a 4-part lesson on How To Pick The Best Mobile Broadband Provider. Previously we covered how to pick a mobile broadband plan, how to pick a provider based on mobile broadband speed and how to find the best mobile broadband coverage. In this section, we cover finding the best mobile broadband device for your needs. Broadband cards are external devices that you plug into your netbook, laptop or PC to give it mobile broadband access. While they are sometimes referred to as AirCards ® , not all are. Made only by Sierra Wireless, AirCards have such a large market share. As such, it’s become a household name of sorts.
Definition: Mobile broadband, also referred to as WWAN (for Wireless Wide Area Network), is a general term used to describe high-speed Internet access from mobile providers for portable devices. Mobile broadband services can also provide wireless Internet access on your laptop or netbook using built-in mobile broadband network cards or other portable network devices, like USB modems or portable wi-fi mobile hotspots.
The mobile Internet device (MID) is a small Internet communications unit designed to provide entertainment, information and location-based services for the consumer market (rather than the enterprise). The MID is a larger form factor than a handheld device but smaller than the Ultra Mobile PC (UMPC). 
With a mobile broadband connection and device you'll be able to get high-speed Internet in areas where there are no standard broadband connections. You can use it on the move, and access the Internet virtually anywhere without having to worry about finding — or paying for — a Wi-Fi connection. Complete your online checkout. Before you know it, your mobile phone, hotspot or mobile broadband device will be at your door, already activated and ready for you to use. Once you have all the components, setting up your new mobile broadband connection is a snap.
A mobile Internet device (MID) is a multimedia-capable mobile device providing wireless Internet access. They are designed to provide entertainment, information and location-based services for personal or business use. They allow 2-way communication and real-time sharing. The class of mobile Internet tablets from Archos has included multiple operating systems: Windows CE, Android, and Windows 7. The form factor is very similar to the Lenovo image on the right.
When you're on the road and need an Internet connection—and Wi-Fi is nowhere to be seen—our Mobile Broadband devices can keep you going. They deliver remote, high-speed access to your data and cloud-based applications and offer more security than Wi-Fi. 