Remember, striations across cells indicate you are viewing cardiac or skeletal muscle. Differentiation of these two types involves other structural features. We will examine these now! Skeletal muscle is the most abundant muscle type in the body. Striations are a key attribute to identify skeletal and cardiac muscle types. Although striations are usually visible in most sections of these muscle types, it can sometimes take a little adjustment of the microscope lighting to see them clearly.
The muscle fibers that make up skeletal muscle are called myofibers and consist of long, cylindrical, multinucleated cells. These cells are made of actin and myosin fibers repeated as a sacromere. Therefore skeletal muscle cells are long, cylindrical, multinucleated cells made of actin and myosin myofibers. They come together to create the fibers which make up tissues such as skeletal muscle tissue. + 5 others found this useful. Brenda Lopez. Skeletal Muscle (as well as Cardiac Muscle) have striations do to their sarcomere's anatomy. The sarcomere is the functional unit of the muscle and appears striated because th … e different thick and thin filaments present.
In contrast to smooth muscle, cardiac and skeletal muscle types possess an internal ultrastructure of highly organized contractile myofilaments. Actin and myosin myofilaments are stacked and overlapped in regular repeating arrays to form sarcomeres. Striations are a key attribute to identify skeletal and cardiac muscle types. Although striations are usually visible in most sections of these muscle types, it can sometimes take a little adjustment of the microscope lighting to see them clearly.
These cells are made of actin and myosin fibers repeated as a sacromere. Therefore skeletal muscle cells are long, cylindrical, multinucleated cells made of actin and myosin myofibers. They come together to create the fibers which make up tissues such as skeletal muscle tissue. + 5 others found this useful. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Skeletal muscle is one of the three types of muscle and it is a structure of a striated muscle tissue. The muscle is made up of myocytes or muscle fibers.
The myofibrils are composed of actin and myosin filaments, repeated in units called sarcomeres, the basic functional units of the muscle fiber. The sarcomere is responsible for the striated appearance of skeletal muscle, and forms the basic machinery necessary for muscle contraction. It is one of three major muscle types, the others being cardiac muscle and smooth muscle. Most skeletal muscles are attached to bones by bundles of collagen fibers known as tendons. Skeletal muscle is made up of individual muscle cells or myocytes, known as muscle fibers.
The A and I bands repeat along the length of the muscle fibers to create the striations visible under the light microscope. 1  Sarcomeres repeat along skeletal and cardiac fibers. 2  Components between adjacent Z-lines comprise the sarcomere. 3  Sarcomeres are considered the functional units of striated muscles. Striations are a key attribute to identify skeletal and cardiac muscle types. Although striations are usually visible in most sections of these muscle types, it can sometimes take a little adjustment of the microscope lighting to see them clearly.
The striations that are evident in skeletal muscle are due to the areas between the sacromeres that is referred to as the Z-lines. Skeletal Muscle (as well as Cardiac Muscle) have striations do to their sarcomere's anatomy. The sarcomere is the functional unit of the muscle and appears striated because th … e different thick and thin filaments present.
Skeletal muscle is a form of striated muscle tissue which is under the voluntary control of the somatic nervous system. It is one of three major muscle types, the others being cardiac muscle and smooth muscle. Most skeletal muscles are attached to bones by bundles of collagen fibers known as tendons. Skeletal muscle is made up of individual muscle cells or myocytes, known as muscle fibers. They are formed from the fusion of developmental myoblasts (a type of embryonic progenitor cell that gives rise to a muscle cell) in a process known as myogenesis. Muscle fibres are cylindrical, and multinucleated
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Sarcomeres The sarcomeres are what give skeletal and cardiac muscles their striated appearance. A sarcomere is defined as the segment between two neighbouring Z-lines (or Z-discs, or Z bodies). 
Skeletal muscle is composed of large, cylindrical, multinucleated cells. The most striking feature of skeletal muscle fibers is the presence of striations that are conspicuous in longitudinally sectioned fibers. The striations are due to the presence of myofibrils, which are cylindrical bundles of thick and thin myofilaments, organized into units of contraction called sarcomeres.