Place cut sides down on a rimmed baking sheet and put sheet into the oven. Bake for about 40 minutes, or until you can easily pierce the squash with a fork. Let cool for about 15 minutes, or until squash is cool enough to handle. With a fork, scrape out the spaghetti-like strands and prepare as desired.
And now, to bake your spaghetti squash in the oven … (scroll down for microwave directions). Heat oven to 375 degrees. Brush the inside of each half with olive oil and sprinkle with coarse salt and freshly ground black pepper. Place cut-sides down on a baking sheet. Bake for about 40 minutes until you can easily pierce the squash with a fork. Let cool for about 15 minutes, or until squash is cool enough to handle. With a fork, scrape out the spaghetti-like strands and prepare as desired.
Preheat oven to 425 degrees. Drizzle squash flesh with 2 tablespoons olive oil and season with salt and pepper. Place cut side down on a parchment-lined rimmed baking sheet. Roast until squash is tender when pierced with a knife, about 1 hour.
Place squash cut-sides-down in a microwave-safe baking dish. Fill the dish with about 1 inch of water. Microwave on high for about 12 minutes, or until you can easily pierce the squash with a fork.
Directions. Preheat oven to 375 degrees. With a small sharp knife, prick squash all over. Place on a rimmed baking sheet and roast until tender when pierced with knife, about 1 hour 20 minutes, flipping halfway through. When cool enough to handle, halve lengthwise and scoop out seeds.
To roast spaghetti squash: Preheat oven to 375°F and set whole or halved squash in the oven. Cook until a fork inserts easily through the skin and into the flesh of the squash, 60 to 90 minutes for whole squash, 45 to 60 minutes for halved. For a more detailed account, see this Roasted Spaghetti Squash recipe.
Preheat oven to 375 degrees. With a small sharp knife, prick squash all over. Place on a rimmed baking sheet and roast until tender when pierced with knife, about 1 hour 20 minutes, flipping halfway through.