Gas can cause pain&mdash;sometimes severe&mdash;in the stomach and abdomen. The pain is often described as sharp and jabbing or cramp-like. These pains can be intense and can change locations quickly. Sometimes, the pain can be confused or mistaken for another condition. Gas is something everyone suffers from. However, sometimes gas can cause sharp and occasionally severe pain in the stomach. Most often, the pain will subside after a few minutes. If it does not, or if the pain is recurrent, several treatment options can help eliminate the symptoms
Avoiding foods known to cause abdominal bloating and lower abdominal pain can help reduce most symptoms. This also includes high-fat or greasy foods. Other lifestyle changes that can prevent the symptoms include: 1  avoiding artificial sweeteners, which may cause bloating. The abdomen may feel hard or tight to the touch. The condition can cause discomfort and pain. Abdominal pain is pain that originates between the chest and the pelvis. Abdominal pain can be cramp-like, achy, dull, or sharp. It is often called stomachache. SPONSORED: Save a trip to the doctor's office.
WebMD Symptom Checker helps you find the most common medical conditions indicated by the symptoms bloating or fullness, distended stomach, pain or discomfort and pressure or fullness including Irritable bowel syndrome, Gas pains, and Constipation (child). Abdominal migraine is recurring stomach pain and vomiting that typically shows up in children between the ages of 3 and 10, although it can also occur in adults.
This typical issue is generally accompanied by abdominal discomfort and stomach spasms. Some small conditions can also directly lead to a pain in stomach. Severe issues could also be the cause of comparable discomfort. Stomach cancer and persistent mesenteric insufficiency are such serious conditions. These are conditions that require immediate clinical attention. Among the top causes of pain in the stomach is food intolerance. Food intolerance is generally precipitated by numerous allergies to certain kinds of food. An usual reaction of this kind is lactose intolerance. Appendicitis’ main sign is an acute pain on the right side of the abdominal areas.
Introduction. A stomach ache is a term often used to refer to cramps or a dull ache in the tummy (abdomen). It's usually short-lived and is often not serious. Severe abdominal pain is a greater cause for concern. If your GP suspects you have one of these conditions, they may refer you to hospital immediately. Sudden and severe pain in your abdomen can also sometimes be caused by an infection of the stomach and bowel (gastroenteritis). It may also be caused by a pulled muscle in your abdomen or by an injury.
The symptoms of bloating can be vague and difficult to pinpoint, but most people describe an uncomfortable feeling of fullness, tightness, or swelling in the abdomen. This can be accompanied by pain, excessive gas (flatulence), frequent burping or belching, and abdominal rumbling or gurgles. Abdominal bloating can also be a symptom of several serious conditions, including: 1  fluid in the abdominal cavity (ascites) as a result of cancer, liver disease, kidney failure, or congestive heart failure. 2  celiac disease (wheat gluten intolerance). 3  ovarian cancer.
A number of conditions can lead to the combination of abdominal bloating and lower abdominal pain. Examples include: 1  appendicitis. 2  consuming foods known to cause gas in some people, such as milk products that contain lactose, broccoli, carbonated beverages, onions, and beans. 3  Crohn’s disease, a condition that causes intestinal inflammation. 4  gastroenteritis or a viral and/or bacterial infection of the stomach and bowel. 5  intestinal obstruction ... The abdomen may feel hard or tight to the touch. The condition can cause discomfort and pain. Abdominal pain is pain that originates between the chest and the pelvis. Abdominal pain can be cramp-like, achy, dull, or sharp. It is often called stomachache. SPONSORED: Save a trip to the doctor's office.