Strict Liability. Strict liability crimes are those in which the defendant is held liable for a criminal offense he committed, even if mens rea is absent. Because of the respect for due process in the United States, the vast majority of strict liability crimes are less serious offenses. Most cases of strict liaiblity are minor infractions and misdemeanors, not nearly as serious as felonies, but still warranting heavy fines and up to a year in jail.
~~ Play arcade games on strict liability ~~. ~~ Play hangman on strict liability ~~. ~~ Try a word search on strict liability ~~. Strict liability crimes are crimes which require no proof of mens rea in relation to one or more aspects of the actus reus. Strict liability offences are primarily regulatory offences aimed at businesses in relation to health and safety. 
Absolute liability is a standard of legal liability found in tort and criminal law of various legal jurisdictions. To be convicted of an ordinary crime, in certain jurisdictions, a person must not only have committed a criminal action, but also have had a deliberate intention or guilty mind (mens rea). In a crime of strict liability (criminal) or absolute liability, a person could be guilty even if there was no intention to commit a crime. The difference between strict and absolute liability is whether the defence of a mistake of fact is available: in a crime of absolute liability, a mistake of fact is not a defence.
Strict Liability. In both tort and criminal law, strict liability exists when a defendant is in legal jeopardy by virtue of an wrongful act, without any accompanying intent or mental state. In criminal law, possession crimes and statutory rape are both examples of strict liability offences. In tort, there are two broad categories of activities for which a plaintiff may be held strictly liable-possession of certain animals and abnormally dangerous activities
This type of offense is known as a strict liability crime. Strict liability crimes do not require any mens rea, or being in the mental state to commit a crime, during the commission of a crime. In these crimes, simply doing the act, even if you had no intention to break the law, makes you guilty of the crime. You will review the definition of strict liability and examine the various types of strict liability crimes. Then you will look at some examples to gain a better understanding of this type of crime.
A strict liability crime is one that does not require an intent to break the law. In other words, it doesn’t matter if you meant to break the law or not, you can still be convicted of the crime. 
In criminal law, strict liability is liability for which mens rea (Latin for guilty mind) does not have to be proven in relation to one or more elements comprising the actus reus (Latin for guilty act) although intention, recklessness or knowledge may be required in relation to other elements of the offence. However, offences of strict liability would grant the accused a defence of due diligence – which would continue to be denied in cases of absolute liability. Further, in the absence of a clear legislative intent to the contrary, the Court held that all regulatory offences would be presumed to bear strict
This lesson will teach you what constitutes strict liability crimes. You will review the definition of strict liability and examine the various types of strict liability crimes. Then you will look at some examples to gain a better understanding of this type of crime.
Absolute liability is used for certain regulatory offences in which it is necessary for individuals engaged in potentially hazardous or harmful activity to exercise extreme, and not merely reasonable, care. In a crime of strict liability (criminal) or absolute liability, a person could be guilty even if there was no intention to commit a crime. The difference between strict and absolute liability is whether the defence of a mistake of fact is available: in a crime of absolute liability, a mistake of fact is not a defence.