As the children get the idea of how to use the stones for telling stories, we will invite them to tell their own stories…. For now, we set the story stones out on a table for the children to explore on their own…. Here are some more ideas for story telling that I would like to try…. Story Telling Jar by Honey Bee Books. Ms. Abby introduced the story stones to the entire class during circle time…. Since story telling is new to our class, Ms. Abby told the story for today. Each child took a turn picking out a stone and Ms. Abby would include that stone in the next part of her story….
Exploring story stones in preschool. By Deborah J. Stewart, M.Ed. I already shared how to make story stones and I must say, if you haven’t thought about making story stones with or for your class, that you really should. Our students LOVE them…. Ms. Abby introduced the story stones to the entire class during circle time…. Since story telling is new to our class, Ms. Abby told the story for today. Each child took a turn picking out a stone and Ms. Abby would include that stone in the next part of her story….
How to Use Story Stones for Storytelling in a Group. I’m sure there would be many ways to use story stones, but I wanted the kids themselves to drive their story. And do it collectively – as part of a group activity. The best part was that I could use the stones to have the kids drive the storytelling sessions and be actively engaged rather than they being passive listeners. Sensory play, art, stories, group activity – story stones made this birthday girl’s party extra special.
But, first – how to make the story stones. To make story stones, we used the river stones that we’d collected last year from a trip to Dharamsala and recently from Himachal Pradesh. (So, whenever you get a chance to visit a stream or a river, don’t forget to pick up some stones. The best part was that I could use the stones to have the kids drive the storytelling sessions and be actively engaged rather than they being passive listeners. Sensory play, art, stories, group activity – story stones made this birthday girl’s party extra special.
Each stone has a picture of a character or animal or object on it. You can make a story stone by painting a picture on it, you can use stickers, you can draw on your stone with a permanent marker, or like us, you can use magazine cutouts or fabric scraps to make your story stones. **More about how I made ours in a bit. The stones can also be used for creative play: The hooligans often use the story stones at whatever centre they’re playing at. Ours are often used as: 1  characters in the dollhouse. 2  animals at our farm cemter. 3  in conjunction with our building blocks. 4  as food in the play kitchen.
If you’re looking for ideas on how to use your story stones, check out these story stone task cards, written for use in a classroom, but great for home as well. By the way, if you like the idea of story stones, but don’t want to make your own, there are some amazing ones available on Etsy. I especially like these fairy tale story stones by Thrive360Living (she has lots of cool sets available) but you can also just search for “story stones.”. There are so many ways to make story stones! I’ve seen story stones made with acrylic paint, fabric collage, magazine collage, Sharpie oil-based paint pens, and Sharpie permanent markers. (I haven’t decided which way to do it ourselves yet. Probably acrylic paint
We’ve done a lot of rock arts and crafts in our home, but we have yet to make story stones. It’s on our activity list for this afternoon, though, and I can’t wait! In preparation, I’ve collected a few resources and posts with story stones ideas…. There are so many ways to make story stones! I’ve seen story stones made with acrylic paint, fabric collage, magazine collage, Sharpie oil-based paint pens, and Sharpie permanent markers. (I haven’t decided which way to do it ourselves yet. Probably acrylic paint
Kids can express emotions through storytelling, they learn new vocabulary, and learn to listen as well. Story Stones are an interesting tool for boosting their creativity. Story Stones can be used by parents, educators, or other adults to guide a story along. Kids ask questions, contribute to the story, make up different stories with the same characters-all the while increasing their thinking capacities