It is easy getting to Kangaroo Island by air or ferry. Kangaroo Island is just 25 minutes by air from Adelaide Airport to Kingscote on Kangaroo Island or 2.5 hours by coach / ferry from Adelaide. Kangaroo Island Odysseys offers you the choice of adding transportation to your touring package. Ferry. SeaLink operates the ferry service between mainland South Australia and Kangaroo Island. The ferry crossing takes approximately 45 minutes and departs from Cape Jervis which is a 1.5 hour drive south of Adelaide, through the picturesque Fleurieu Peninsula.
If you intend to drive from Adelaide to Cape Jervis and take a ferry to the Island, you can make bookings with Sea Link. If driving your own vehicle from Adelaide you can either bring it across on the ferry or leave it secure parking at Cape Jervis and travel to the island as walk-on passengers. Sea Dragon Lodge provides optional transfers from Adelaide Airport or your Adelaide hotel which incorporate a half day McLaren Vale Winery Tour. Sea Dragon Lodge offer private car transfers from the airport or Kangaroo Island ferry as part of our Kangaroo Island Holiday Packages. Kangaroo Island flights take 35 minutes and fly direct from Adelaide. Regional Express-REX-operate regular morning and afternoon flights between Adelaide (ADL) and Kingscote (KGC)
Kangaroo Island [1] or KI is an island about 45 minutes by ferry off the coast of South Australia. The island is 145 kilometers east to west, and has an abundance of wildlife, natural scenery, wineries and beaches. It is your responsibility to check with the Ferry company regarding insurance for the journey. 1  Avis-does not allow their vehicles to travel to Kangaroo Island. 2  Budget-does not allow their vehicle to travel to Kangaroo Island. 3  Europcar-allows their vehicles to travel to Kangaroo Island from ANY location in
Tours enable you to sit back and allow someone else to do the driving, and your guide can provide great Kangaroo Island knowledge. Coach tours are available or, alternatively, more personalised four-wheel drive tours. Most tours will pick-up from your accommodation, ferry terminal or the airport. A Big Island-As the third largest island off the coast of mainland Australia, Kangaroo Island is more than a day-trip destination. At 155 kilometres long and up to 55 kilometres wide, it covers an area of 4,416 square kilometres.
Kangaroo Island. Kangaroo Island is a 30 minute flight south from Adelaide, or less than two and a half hours by car and ferry. The flights leave from Adelaide Airport just 10-15 minutes from Glenelg. Kangaroo Island has been described by international tourism journalists as 'one of the earth's last unspoilt refuges'. 
Kangaroo Island SeaLink operates two large, luxurious vehicle and passenger ferries, between Cape Jervis (approx. 2 hour drive from Adelaide on the Fleurieu Peninsula) and Penneshaw KI. A Big Island-As the third largest island off the coast of mainland Australia, Kangaroo Island is more than a day-trip destination. At 155 kilometres long and up to 55 kilometres wide, it covers an area of 4,416 square kilometres.
By Ferry... Kangaroo Island SeaLink operates two large, luxurious vehicle and passenger ferries, between Cape Jervis (approx. 2 hour drive from Adelaide on the Fleurieu Peninsula) and Penneshaw KI. There are four departures daily, with additional services during peak times. Bookings are necessary. A Big Island-As the third largest island off the coast of mainland Australia, Kangaroo Island is more than a day-trip destination. At 155 kilometres long and up to 55 kilometres wide, it covers an area of 4,416 square kilometres.
History [edit]. Kangaroo Island was separated from the mainland around 10,000 years ago. It was first explored by Matthew Flinders in 1802 whilst en route from UK to Sydney. He named the island in honour of the feast of Kangaroo he and his crew enjoyed on the island. It is your responsibility to check with the Ferry company regarding insurance for the journey. 1  Avis-does not allow their vehicles to travel to Kangaroo Island. 2  Budget-does not allow their vehicle to travel to Kangaroo Island. 3  Europcar-allows their vehicles to travel to Kangaroo Island from ANY location in Australia.