Now that hubby Kroy Biermann is on injured reserve from the Atlanta Falcons, apparently Kim Zolciak needs to do something to feed her brood of six ! Kim and Kroy are work well together doing other things besides making babies – she says their opposites attract mentality is perfect for the business because they balance each other out. “We’re great together.
When it comes to Kim Zolciak, it seems like there is never a dull moment in her life. She's well known from making hit songs like Don't Be Tardy for the Party, Google Me, and Love Me First, being an original cast member of The Real Housewives of Atlanta, and wearing her blonde wigs.
Facebook Twitter Pinterest Email More. It's been a year full of changes, both positive and painful, for Kim Zolciak and her family. Hubby Kroy Biermann had to sit out the season with the Atlanta Falcons after tearing his Achilles tendon in the fall of 2013. Then, the couple welcomed the latest additions to their family, Kaia Rose and Kane Ren, in November. 
According to tax documents obtained by Radar, Zolciak and her husband, Kroy Biermann, were recently served with two tax liens: one from the City of Milton, Georgia, for $1,665.26, and the other from the State of Georgia and Fulton county for $10,572.67. As Radar has reported, it’s only the latest in a series of financial problems surrounding the home, which the couple bought in 2012 for $880,000. On December 9, 2013, they signed off on a new credit line of $300,000 with Landmark Community Bank to finish the renovations on the 7,186 square-foot house.
Kroy and one of Kim's children stand in the half-finished swimming pool. Kim and her husband have been living in a townhouse in Atlanta after they were asked to leave the house they were renting from interior designer Kendra Davis' house. The couple allegedly failed to move out when their lease ended on May 31, 2012.
by Mary on January 17th, 2014. Now that hubby Kroy Biermann is on injured reserve from the Atlanta Falcons, apparently Kim Zolciak needs to do something to feed her brood of six ! The Don't Be Tardy star revealed to Life & Style that she's embarking upon a new career as a real estate flipper. Kim and Kroy are work well together doing other things besides making babies – she says their opposites attract mentality is perfect for the business because they balance each other out. “We’re great together.
So it's nice to see the flame is still hot between reality star Kim Zolciak, 36, and her football player husband Kroy Biermann, 29. On Saturday the Real Housewives Of Atlanta star shared an intimate image on Instagram where her spouse was staring at her from behind as she looked in the mirror of her Atlanta bathroom. 
Kim Zolciak shared an exclusive look into her brand new Atlanta mansion, and the former Real Housewife, 36, has pulled out all the stops to decorate the lavish home she shares with husband Kroy Biermann and their brood. PHOTOS: Before they were Real Housewives. “Kroy and I are the king and queen of this f--king house, so this is perfect for us,” she said, motioning to her dining room throne chairs in Us Weekly’s exclusive clip.
The 35-year-old is currently building a lavish waterfront mansion in Georgia, and pictures have emerged revealing the reality star's 'dream home' is nearing completion. Lavish digs: The building of Kim Zolciak and her husband Kroy Biermann's waterfront mansion in Georgia is nearing completion. Nearly there: The 35-year-old, pictured smoking while pregnant on Thursday in Atlanta, has been keeping her fans updated on the building progress via her blog and Twitter. Kim and her husband have been living in a townhouse in Atlanta after they were asked to leave the house they were renting from interior designer Kendra Davis' house. The couple allegedly failed to move out when their lease ended on May 31, 2012.
Kim Zolciak ‘s dream home has turned into a financial nightmare. Just weeks after Zolciak was forced to take out a $300k loan to finish construction on her Atlanta mansion, RadarOnline.com has learned that she’s been ordered to cough up thousands of dollars in back taxes — or move out! As Radar has reported, it’s only the latest in a series of financial problems surrounding the home, which the couple bought in 2012 for $880,000. On December 9, 2013, they signed off on a new credit line of $300,000 with Landmark Community Bank to finish the renovations on the 7,186 square-foot house.