Aortic valve stenosis is a narrowing of the aortic valve. The aortic valve allows blood to flow from the heart 's lower left chamber (ventricle) into the aorta and to the body. Stenosis prevents the valve from opening properly, forcing the heart to work harder to pump blood through the valve. As aortic valve stenosis gets worse, you may have symptoms such as: 1  Chest pain or pressure (angina). 2  Feeling dizzy or faint. 3  Feeling tired and being short of breath. 4  A feeling that your heart is pounding, racing, or beating unevenly (palpitations).
With mitral valve stenosis, not as much blood can flow into the left ventricle. More blood stays in the left atrium, and blood may back up into the lungs. See a picture of the heart and its chambers, valves, and blood flow. See a picture of a normal mitral valve. Mitral valve stenosis is a heart problem in which the mitral valve doesn't open as wide as it should. The valve becomes stiff or scarred, or the valve flaps become partially joined together. See a picture of mitral valve stenosis.
Normal heart and heart with mitral valve stenosis. Mitral valve stenosis — or mitral stenosis — is a narrowing of the heart's mitral valve. This abnormal valve doesn't open properly, blocking blood flow into the main pumping chamber of your heart (left ventricle). 
Aortic stenosis (AS) is the narrowing of the exit of the left ventricle of the heart such that problems result. It may occur at the aortic valve as well as above and below this level. It typically gets worse over time. Symptoms often come on gradually with a decreased ability to exercise often occurring first. 
Aortic stenosis is abnormal narrowing of the aortic valve. A number of conditions cause disease resulting in narrowing of the aortic valve. When the degree of narrowing becomes significant enough to impede the flow of blood from the left ventricle to the arteries, heart problems develop. 1 The oxygenated blood then returns to the left atrium and passes through the mitral valve into the left ventricle. 2  Blood is pumped by the left ventricle across the aortic valve into the aorta and the arteries of the body.
Aortic Stenosis Symptoms. Aortic stenosis is the narrowing of the aortic valve, which limits the aortic valve leaflet's ability to fully open and close. Valve leaflets are flaps of tissue that open and close to regulate the one-way flow of blood through the aortic valve. Calcification is the process that refers to the build-up of calcium on the heart's valves. In elderly patients, aortic stenosis is sometimes caused by the build-up of calcium (mineral deposits) on the aortic valve’s leaflets. Over time the leaflets become stiff, reducing their
Aortic stenosis is a narrowing of the aortic valve opening. Aortic stenosis restricts the blood flow from the left ventricle to the aorta and may also affect the pressure in the left atrium. 
Aortic valve stenosis — or aortic stenosis — occurs when the heart's aortic valve narrows. This narrowing prevents the valve from opening fully, which obstructs blood flow from your heart into your aorta and onward to the rest of your body. When the aortic valve is obstructed, your heart needs to work harder to pump blood to your body.
As aortic valve stenosis gets worse, you may have symptoms such as: 1  Chest pain or pressure (angina). 2  You may have a heavy, tight feeling in your chest. 3  Feeling dizzy or faint. 4  Feeling tired and being short of breath. 5  A feeling that your heart is pounding, racing, or beating unevenly (palpitations). As aortic valve stenosis gets worse, you may have symptoms such as: 1  Chest pain or pressure (angina). 2  Feeling dizzy or faint. 3  Feeling tired and being short of breath. 4
Updated:May 19,2015. About Valve Stenosis Stenosis is the term for a valve that doesn’t open properly. The flaps of a valve thicken, stiffen, or fuse together. As a result, the valve cannot fully open. Thus, the heart has to work harder to pump blood through the valve, and the body may suffer from a reduced supply of oxygen. 