Combine 1/2 quart hydrogen peroxide, 1/8 cup of baking soda, and 1 teaspoon liquid dishwashing soap in an open container. Draw a tepid bath and put your dog in it. Apply the solution liberally throughout your dog's coat and suds him up well (to the skin).
Store a sealed bottle of hydrogen peroxide and a small container of baking soda (separately) up in your cupboard so you'll be ready in case of an emergency. 1  1 quart of 3% hydrogen peroxide (from drug store). 2  1/4 cup of baking soda (sodium bicarbonate). 3  1 teaspoon of liquid detergent.
White Vinegar or hydrogen peroxide counteracts the natural oil in skunk spray. You will probably need something stronger than soapy water to get rid of skunk oils — a solution of vinegar or peroxide will dissolve and remove the odor-causing oils instead of just spreading them around.
“Skunk Off” is a highly effective spray designed specifically for treating skunk-sprayed pets. Use bleach to clean skunk spray and odor from outdoor structures. Use a mixture of 10% bleach and 90% water (or detergent and water) to clean sprayed areas (such as a porch) that aren’t in danger in staining from the bleach.
Use the following remedy to remove the skunk smell from your dog. It requires baking soda, hydrogen peroxide, and liquid dishwashing soap (the kind made for washing dishes by hand). Always keep these ingredients on hand in case your dog runs into a skunk.
1 You may wish to dab your dog with dry paper towels in the sprayed areas first to absorb any excess oil on the coat. 2  In a plastic container, combine 1 quart of hydrogen peroxide, 1/4 cup baking soda and 1 to 2 teaspoons of liquid soap. 3  Add lukewarm water if needed (for larger dogs). 4  Mix ingredients well.
Wash your dog as soon as possible to get rid of the skunk smell. First use warm water to wet your dog and then, with rubber gloves and a washcloth, rub the skunk odor remover into the coat. If you have an energetic dog, a large plastic tub may help you contain him.
The idea that tomato juice can remove the skunk smell is nothing but an old wives' tail. Tomato juice will not be effective in ridding your pet, the unfortunate victim of a skunk's spray attack, from the smell. Instead, you need to target the oily residue of the spray in order to neutralize the odor.