Oregon Trail. Easier-The Oregon Trail was the best land route for travel to the western United States. It was the only practical way for settlers in wagons with their tools, livestock, and supplies to cross the mountains. Many believe that without the trail, most of the American west would today be part of Canada or Mexico. For twenty-five years, 1841-1866, people 'pulled-up-stakes' and headed west.
The Oregon Trail is a 2,200-mile (3,500 km) historic east–west large-wheeled wagon route and emigrant trail that connected the Missouri River to valleys in Oregon. The eastern part of the Oregon Trail spanned part of the future state of Kansas and nearly all of what are now the states of Nebraska and Wyoming. The Oregon Trail was laid by fur trappers and traders from about 1811 to 1840 and was only passable on foot or by horseback.
Wagons. A traveler on horseback without a wagon could cover more territory than the 10 to 15 miles typically crossed by a wagon train each day, but pioneers needed goods to survive and use when they arrived at the end of the trail. In 1841, about 50 men, women and children first started the journey on this trail to Oregon. According to the National Oregon/California Trail Center, a typical family of four needed 600 pounds of flour, 400 pounds of bacon, 100 pounds of sugar, 60 pounds of coffee and 200 pounds of lard as basic staples.
The first large wagon train of pioneers bound for Oregon was in 1843. The last wagon trains came in the 1880's, when other methods of transportation (such as railroads) were developed in the West. Oxen were used because they could pull heavy loads. Oxen could survive on eating the grass along the way. Some wagon trains were led by a trail guide that was hired to show the way. Often these guides had been fur trappers and traders for many years and had traveled the Oregon Trail many times. In some wagon trains, all the members voted to have one person be the captain or leader.
By 1836, when the first migrant wagon train was organized in Independence, Missouri, a wagon trail had been cleared to Fort Hall, Idaho. Wagon trails were cleared further and further west, eventually reaching all the way to the Willamette Valley in Oregon. The Oregon Trail was laid by fur trappers and traders from about 1811 to 1840 and was only passable on foot or by horseback.
Other Trails. Although the Oregon Trail was the most used wagon trail, there were other trails that led out west. Some of them branched off the Oregon Trail like the California Trail which left the Oregon Trail in Idaho and headed south to California. The Route. The Oregon Trail began in Independence, Missouri and ended in Oregon City, Oregon. It stretched for around 2,000 miles and through six different states including Missouri, Kansas, Nebraska, Wyoming, Idaho, and Oregon.
The Oregon Trail was a major route that people took when migrating to the western part of the United States. Between 1841 and 1869, hundreds of thousands of people traveled westward on the trail. Many of them traveled in large wagon trains using covered wagons to carry their belongings. The Route. The Oregon Trail began in Independence, Missouri and ended in Oregon City, Oregon. It stretched for around 2,000 miles and through six different states including Missouri, Kansas, Nebraska, Wyoming, Idaho, and Oregon.
The Topic: Oregon Trail Easier-The Oregon Trail was the best land route for travel to the western United States. It was the only practical way for settlers in wagons with their tools, livestock, and supplies to cross the mountains. Many believe that without the trail, most of the American west would today be part of Canada or Mexico. For twenty-five years, 1841-1866, people 'pulled-up-stakes' and headed west.
Settlers used a covered wagon commonly called an overland wagon and nicknamed the Prairie Schooner. Wagons were 6 feet wide and 12 feet long and built to carry no more than 2,500 pounds of supplies for the trip west. In 1841, about 50 men, women and children first started the journey on this trail to Oregon. According to the National Oregon/California Trail Center, a typical family of four needed 600 pounds of flour, 400 pounds of bacon, 100 pounds of sugar, 60 pounds of coffee and 200 pounds of lard as basic staples.