Description. The Plott Hound is a medium-sized, powerful, muscular dog. The skull is moderately flat with well-fitted skin. The muzzle is moderately long with flews that make it look square. The lips and nose are black. The prominent eyes are brown or hazel with black eye rims. This is Duke the Plott Hound at 12 months old, weighing 75 pounds! Find a Plott Hound Breeder Place an Ad Rescue a Plott Hound List Your Rescue Description
The Plott Hound is a cunning and confident big-game hunting dog with a fierce and tenacious nature on the trail and an even, affectionate and loyal temperament in the home. He hails from the mountains of western North Carolina and is the only coonhound breed not descended from the Foxhound. The Plott is first and foremost a hunting dog who specializes in big game or anything else you want him to go after. For the person who can satisfy his desire to hunt and be active, he can be a wonderful companion and watchdog, well suited to family life. His short coat is easy to groom, but it sheds.
Description: The Plott Hound is a large purebred known for being aggressive, alert, courageous, intelligent, and loyal. The most common colors for Plott Hounds are black, black and tan, blue, brown, and red. To keep it healthy, it will need to get exercise regularly. 
The Plott Hound is a medium size breed of dog. They are usually 20-25 inches tall (51-61 cm). Plott Hounds weigh about 45-55 pounds (20-25 kg). They are well-muscled and strong. The Plotts have double coats which are smooth and glossy. They can be any shade of brown, black, or tan. 
A hunting hound of striking color that traditionally brings big game to bay or tree, the Plott is intelligent, alert and confident. Noted for stamina, endurance, agility, determination and aggressiveness when hunting, the powerful, well muscled, yet streamlined Plott combines courage with athletic ability. 
Plott. Powerful and well-muscled, the Plott brings big game such as bear or boar to bay or tree with its determination, endurance and courage. Today, the Plott-who is the state dog of North Carolina-is also used for coonhunting in addition to his more traditional duties. 
(Plott). This is Duke the Plott Hound at 12 months old, weighing 75 pounds! Find a Plott Hound Breeder Place an Ad Rescue a Plott Hound List Your Rescue Description The Plott Hound is a medium-sized, powerful, muscular dog. The skull is moderately flat with well-fitted skin. The muzzle is moderately long with flews that make it look square. The lips and nose are black
HISTORY & INFORMATION. History of the Plott Hound Of the six breeds of U.K.C. registered Coonhounds, only the Plott Hound doesn't trace it's ancestry to the foxhound; and of the breeds, we can be most certain of the Plott's heritage and the men most responsible for it's development. 
The Plott Hound is one of the least known breeds of dog in the United States, even though it is the state dog of North Carolina. The Plott Hound should be athletic, muscular, and agile in appearance. The Plott is a strongly built yet moderate hound, with a distinct brindle-colored coat. Its appearance suggests the capacity for speed, stamina and endurance. The Plott may have an identification mark on it that is used to identify the dog when hunting.