Instructions. Order a copy of your credit report from AnnualCreditReport.com. The site is authorized by the Federal Trade Commission to offer completely free credit reports. Navigate to the site, enter your state, and click on Request Report to view and print your credit report.
Outside of those realms, you really shouldn't be pulling credit on other people, he says. Dig Deeper: States Propose Limiting Credit Checks by Employers. Running a Credit Check: Get Permission. Federal law requires you always disclose when you are seeking to run a credit check on someone. You need to get their permission in writing too—you'll need some of their information anyway since most credit checking agencies require a full name and Social Security number. You really have to take a credit report with a grain of salt, he says. It's important to have a plan in place and a set of standards for what items will signal red flags. You have to give the subject of the report a chance to respond too.
1 Once you pass the security questions, your account is opened. 2  Once you have the account, you can send a request to view a person's credit from your Experian Connect dashboard. 3  All you need is the person's name and e-mail address. 4  Experian contacts the person on your behalf. Once you have an account, you can get access to others’ credit information. 1  This service works a little differently. 2  The person whose credit you want to view can purchase a credit report for $14.95 and grant you free access to the report for 30 days.
Ask for permission. It's against the law to check someone's credit report without their permission. You can verbally notify the individual of a credit report, or include this information on a written contract. The words, subject to credit approval must be visible on the contract. Get a Social Security number. To obtain a person's credit report, you'll need to obtain personal information. Ask the individual to write down his full name, Social Security number and home address. Subscribe to a credit report service.
Initiate a request to check a person's credit using only their name and email address. They can buy their Experian credit report and grant you private access for up to 30 days. All done online, directly through Experian ConnectSM. 
1 Once you have the account, you can send a request to view a person's credit from your Experian Connect dashboard. 2  All you need is the person's name and e-mail address. 3  Experian contacts the person on your behalf. 4  If the person agrees, he purchases the report himself for $14.95 through Experian. Once you have an account, you can get access to others’ credit information. 1  This service works a little differently. 2  The person whose credit you want to view can purchase a credit report for $14.95 and grant you free access to the report for 30 days.
1 The person whose credit you want to view can purchase a credit report for $14.95 and grant you free access to the report for 30 days. 2  To open an account with Experian Connect, you provide your name, address and social security number, and you choose a username and password for the account. Once you have an account, you can get access to others’ credit information. 1  This service works a little differently. 2 
1 In addition to a credit report, you may also want to run a background check, says Tracy Becker, president of Northshore Advisory, a credit education and restoration company.  2 You can pull limited information. 1 Also, request that a do not issue credit notation or credit freeze be added to the report, and that you want to be notified if someone attempts to open an account in his or her name. 2  To see if your child's credit has been compromised.
If you need to check someone's credit history, write a letter to one of the bureaus and request a report or make an online request. Include detail information in your letter. Introduce yourself, and explain the reasons behind requesting the report. List the individual's full name, SSN and home address. Get a Social Security number. To obtain a person's credit report, you'll need to obtain personal information. Ask the individual to write down his full name, Social Security number and home address. Subscribe to a credit report service.
The services charge a fee to run a check, usually between $8 and $20. Dig Deeper: How to Assess the Credit Risk of Your Customers. Running a Credit Check: Interpreting the Results. Lin says your standards for weighing the results need to be established before you start running credit reports. You really have to take a credit report with a grain of salt, he says. It's important to have a plan in place and a set of standards for what items will signal red flags. You have to give the subject of the report a chance to respond too.