Etymology: Gk, nema + eidos, form. a multicellular, parasitic animal of the phylum Nematoda. All roundworms belong to the phylum, including Ancylostoma duodenale, Ascaris lumbricoides, Enterobius vermicularis, Necator americanus, Strongyloides stercoralis, and several other species. Roundworm, see there. nematode. a roundworm; any individual organism of the class Nematoda. Parasitism with any of the worms in this group represents a significant proportion of the diseases of animals.
a multicellular, parasitic animal of the phylum Nematoda. All roundworms belong to the phylum, including Ancylostoma duodenale, Ascaris lumbricoides, Enterobius vermicularis, Necator americanus, Strongyloides stercoralis, and several other species. Roundworm, see there. nematode. a roundworm; any individual organism of the class Nematoda. Parasitism with any of the worms in this group represents a significant proportion of the diseases of animals.
Nematode Parasites of Poultry (and where to find them). R.D. Jacobs, J.A. Hogsette, and G.D. Butcher. Nematodes or roundworms are the most important group of helminth parasites of poultry. This is due to the large number of parasitic species (23) that cause damage to the host, especially in severe infections. 
Background. Nematode infections in humans include ascariasis, trichuriasis, hookworm, enterobiasis, strongyloidiasis, filariasis, and trichinosis, among others. The phylum Nematoda, also known as the roundworms, is the second largest phylum in the animal kingdom, encompassing up to 500,000 species. 
Noun. 1. nematode worm-unsegmented worms with elongated rounded body pointed at both ends; mostly free-living but some are parasitic. nematode, roundworm. 
nem·a·tode. n. Any of numerous worms of the phylum Nematoda, having unsegmented cylindrical bodies often narrowing at each end, and including free-living species that are abundant in soil and water, and species that are parasites of plants and animals, such as eelworms, pinworms, and hookworms. Also called roundworm. nematode. n. 1. (Animals) any unsegmented worm of the phylum (or class) Nematoda, having a tough outer cuticle. The group includes free-living forms and disease-causing parasites, such as the hookworm and filaria. Also called: nematode worm or roundworm. (ˈnɛm əˌtoʊd)
What is a nematode. Nematode. (Phasmarhabditis hermaphrodita). From the Greek ‘ nematos ’ (thread) and ‘ eidos ’ (species or form), nematodes are one of the most abundant creatures on Earth; with a typical handful of soil containing thousands of the microscopic organisms. 