Martin was born in St. Albans Naval Hospital in Queens, New York and grew up in the Brighton Beach neighborhood of Brooklyn, New York. His father, Gerard, was a lawyer and Lieutenant Colonel in the U.S. Army Reserve. His mother, Ruth, was a German immigrant that came to the United States following World War II. Martin then closed up his Brooklyn operations and moved to Martha’s Vineyard, Massachusetts. There he obtained a captain’s license, pilot’s license, and established Martha’s Vineyard Scuba Headquarters, Inc. (MVSHQ) to serve as a base of operations to attempt to locate the fabled shipwreck of the RMS Republic.
June 1987 - Treasure Hunter and Modern Day Pirate Martin Bayerle gets interviewed by Kathleen Sullivan the day before he begins salvage on the fabled White Star Liner, the RMS Republic. Visit www.rms-republic.com or www.facebook.com/RMSRepublic to follow the 2012 salvage, a quest 25 years in the making! 1  Entertainment. 
Martin lost sight in his left eye from a small explosives accident when he was 11 years old. He first began scuba diving off the coast of New Jersey and New York at the age of 15 and went on to graduate from Abraham Lincoln High School in February 1969. Martin then closed up his Brooklyn operations and moved to Martha’s Vineyard, Massachusetts. There he obtained a captain’s license, pilot’s license, and established Martha’s Vineyard Scuba Headquarters, Inc. (MVSHQ) to serve as a base of operations to attempt to locate the fabled shipwreck of the RMS Republic.
After acquiring ownership of Republic, on August 1, 2013 Bayerle published the bulk of his significant research into the mystery of RMS Republic by releasing a book titled The Tsar's Treasure: The Sunken White Star Liner With a Billion Dollar Secret. Martin then closed up his Brooklyn operations and moved to Martha’s Vineyard, Massachusetts. There he obtained a captain’s license, pilot’s license, and established Martha’s Vineyard Scuba Headquarters, Inc. (MVSHQ) to serve as a base of operations to attempt to locate the fabled shipwreck of the RMS Republic.