Energy-conscious customers can save money if you use electricity during off-peak periods when costs are lower. Our Time-of-Use program is designed to encourage customers to reduce electricity use during peak hours. Under the program, you will be charged for electricity depending on when you use it. The rates are lowest on off-peak periods: weekends, holidays, and weekdays from 10 p.m. to 10 a.m., when usage and the cost of electricity are low. See if they have different rates for peak hours, or ask if they have a time-of-use plan where you can save money by using off-peak hours. The next way is to check your bill. There might be two separate rates for electricity which could indicate peak and off-peak rates.
Data released today by the BLS indicates that the electricity price indexes hit all-time highs for the month of December and for the year. 2014 was the most-expensive year ever for electricity in the United States. 
Clothes dryers can be one of the most expensive home appliances to operate, using approximately 6 percent of a home's total electricity usage. Unlike other appliances, clothes dryers don't vary much from brand to brand and model to model in the amount of energy used. 
The price for electricity can vary from day to day and even by hour. You can find out when electricity is cheaper by examining the energy market. When consumer demand for energy is low, you will see the best energy prices. Seasonally, this falls during the spring and fall months when temperatures are mild. During summer and winter, energy use increases due to heating and cooling needs, causing higher electricity rates. Some energy suppliers offer time-of-use plans that charge you based on the time of day you use electricity. Lower rates are available during off-peak hours and higher rates are charged during peak hours for the energy market. If you typically work during the day, you can eliminate large amounts of electricity use by unplugging your devices. Plug them in only during the late evening when energy is cheapest and you are home to use them. Be sure to check with your supplier about whether one of these types of plans is available in your area.
By Saving Energy, You Save Money Time-of-use pricing better reflects the true cost of power. That’s because you are charged more for electricity when it is more expensive to produce. As a result, time-of-use encourages you to use power when rates are cheapest – during off-peak hours. Time-of-use (TOU) Prices. The vast majority of Ontario electricity users pay time-of-use prices. If you’ve signed an electricity contract with a company, these prices will not affect you. There are three time-of-use price periods: 1  Off-peak, when demand for electricity is lowest. 2  Ontario households use the majority of their electricity – nearly two thirds of it – during off-peak hours. 3  Mid-peak, when demand for electricity is moderate
If your house has electric heat, you’ll see a big spike on your electricity bill in the middle of winter when you use a lot of power. If you have a heat pump and use it a lot, you may run it somewhere between 10 and 15 hours a day. If your electricity costs 10 cents an hour, that could cost you $15 to $22 a day. The same applies to homes with central air conditioning in the middle of summer. To save money, install a programmable thermostat and set it back at least 10 degrees for eight hours a day.
Electricity pricing (sometimes referred to as electricity tariff or the price of electricity) varies widely from country to country, and may vary significantly from locality to locality within a particular country. There are many reasons that account for these differences in price. The price also differs from the source of the electricity. In the U.S. in 2002, the cost of electricity by different sources is listed below: Coal: 1-4 cents; Gas: 2.3-5.0 cents; Oil: 6-8 cents; Wind: 5-7 cents; Nuclear: 6-7 cents; Solar: 25-50 cents.
Refrigerators are big-time energy hogs because they use electricity all the time, in many cases for 10 hours or more every day. That comes to about $1 a day, which you can double if you have a second refrigerator. If your electricity costs 10 cents an hour, that could cost you $15 to $22 a day. The same applies to homes with central air conditioning in the middle of summer. To save money, install a programmable thermostat and set it back at least 10 degrees for eight hours a day.
If your house has electric heat, then the middle of winter is a time when you are going to use a lot of power. A heat pump might run 10 to 15 hours a day. At $1.50 an hour, that's $15 to $22 per day. Over the course of a month, that's several hundred dollars worth of electricity. The same applies in the summer if you use the air conditioner a lot.