Once that's done (or if you're on Ubuntu), enter the following command: sudo apt-get install android-tools-adb android-tools-fastboot. And you're all set up! You can send commands to your device from any terminal window. 17 32 Reply Leave a reply. Kinja is in read-only mode. Don't worry, despite the name of the blog, this script should work for any Android phone that ADB or fastboot would already work on. To install the tools: 1  Download this zip file containing the scripts. 2  Extract the zip and place the Android folder on your Desktop. 3  Open a new T
Download and run the .exe file in this XDA thread. This will automatically install ADB and fastboot. Follow the wizard's instructions and you're done. Yes, seriously. The program will ask you if you want to create a shortcut in your Start Menu or on the desktop. This shortcut will actually only open a command prompt in the folder where you installed ADB and fastboot. Don't worry, despite the name of the blog, this script should work for any Android phone that ADB or fastboot would already work on. To install the tools: 1  Download this zip file containing the scripts. 2  Extract the zip and place the Android folder on your Desktop. 3  Open a new Terminal window.
Prev Article Next Article. ADB, Android Debug Bridge, is a command-line utility included with Google’s Android SDK. ADB can control your device over USB from a computer, copy files back and forth, install and uninstall apps, run shell commands, and more.Adb is a connection between your android and computer. Install a Application. While adb push can copy files to our Android devices, adb install can actually install .apk files. Using it is similar to use the push command, because we need to provide the path to the file we’re installing. That means it’s always easier to just drop the app you’re installing into your tools fold
The ADB server (ADB.exe file) is included in the folder where the .bat file exists. Once you run the .bat file, it issues a command to start the ADB server and executes the command to flash the recovery image to your device. You may also need to execute fastboot commands when your phone is booted into the fastboot mode. It only has the core SDK tools, which you can use to download the rest of the SDK packages. Android SDK is available as an installer package (.exe file). Install Android SDK on your computer in the location C:\ You may also install it C:\Program Files\ or any location in the C: drive you wish to.
ADB can control your device over USB from a computer, copy files back and forth, install and uninstall apps, run shell commands, and more. We’ve covered some other tricks that require ADB in the past, including backing up and restoring your smartphone or tablet and installing Android apps to your SD card by default. You may have to force Windows to use the installed drivers for your device. Open the Device Manager (click Start, type Device Manager, and press Enter), locate your device, right-click it and select Properties. You may see a yellow exclamation mark next to the device if its driver isn’t installed properly.
You can download it from here. You need to install Android SDK on your PC in order to execute ADB commands. The SDK package you downloaded is not the complete development environment that you would need. It only has the core SDK tools, which you can use to download the rest of the SDK packages. Android SDK is available as an installer package (.exe file). Install Android SDK on your computer in the location C:\ You may also install it C:\Program Files\ or any location in the C: drive you wish to. Once you have installed Android SDK, you need to open the folder where you have installed it
If you used a different install location, you’ll find ADB in the platform-tools directory inside your android-sdk directory. Browse to this directory, hold Shift and right-click inside it, and select Open command window here. To test whether ADB is working properly, connect your Android device to your computer using a USB cable and run the following command: adb devices. You should see a device in the list. If your device is connected but nothing appears in the list, you’ll need to install the appropriate drivers. You may have to force Windows to use the installed drivers for your device. Open the Device Manager (click Start, type Device Manager, and press Enter), locate your device, right-click it and select Properties. You may see a yellow exclamation mark next to the device if its driver isn’t installed properly.
Now you have ADB installed but using it this way will require you to either use the complete path of the ADB command (C:\android-sdk-windows\platform-tools\adb) or to first change directory to the platform-tools subfolder of the SDK folder each time, and this can become quite a hassle. Now that the USB drivers have been downloaded, you can install them to your computer as follows: 1  On the device, go to home screen, press Menu, select Applications Development, and enable USB Debugging. 2  Now connect your phone to the PC via USB.