Baking the Chicken: Preheat the oven to 400째F. Bake the chicken, uncovered, for 35 to 40 minutes or until the chicken is no longer pink inside. You can bake the chicken legs in a 375째F. oven, if desired. Increase the baking time to 45 to 50 minutes. Tip: An accurate way to check chicken doneness is to insert an instant-read thermometer into the thigh, avoiding the bone. It should read 180째F when the chicken is done.
Directions. 1  Put some olive oil in the bottom of a 9X13 pan (just enough to put the drumsticks on). 2  Add drumsticks (space enough apart so they aren't touching each other). 3  Sprinkle generously with pepper and garlic powder. 4  Bake at 375 for half an hour. 5  Bake another half an hour (or until cooked til 160 degrees)).
Directions. 1  Arrange chicken thighs/leg quarters skin side up in a shallow baking dish. 2  Sprinkle with garlic powder. 3  Drizzle about 1/2 teaspoon soy sauce on each piece. 4  Bake at 350 degrees Fahrenheit for 45 minutes to an hour, until the skin is crisp and brown and the meat is ready to fall off the bones.
Bake for 20 to 30 minutes: The chicken is done when opaque all the way through and the meat registers at least 165째F in the thickest part. Broil for extra-crispy skin: If you'd like the skin to be a bit more crispy and golden, turn on the broiler for 2 to 3 minutes.
Baking, or roasting, chicken legs results in juicy, flavorful meat and crispy skin. Preparing them is as simple as tossing the legs with your favorite flavor combinations and popping them in the oven at a fairly high heat. Read on for three ways to make chicken legs: honey baked, spicy hot, and rosemary garlic.
As for how long and what temperature: id say bake at 350 for about 45 minutes. But check the temp. at 30 minutes to see if they are done. and adjust your time from there. Ill give a link below with baked chick legs recipes.
1 Arrange chicken thighs/leg quarters skin side up in a shallow baking dish. 2  Sprinkle with garlic powder. 3  Drizzle about 1/2 teaspoon soy sauce on each piece. 4  Bake at 350 degrees Fahrenheit for 45 minutes to an hour, until the skin is crisp and brown and the meat is ready to fall off the bones.