In order words, the sea waybill is a document that serves as proof that the shipper actually received the goods from the shipper and agreed to carry it to a stated destination. In a sense, the sea waybill is similar the bill of lading, which is the main shipping document. The sea waybill is important because it serves an alternative for a bill of lading for the purposes of shipping goods and having someone collect the goods on arrival at the destination port.
A Sea Waybill is a transport contract (contract of carriage) - the same as a Bill of Lading. A Sea Waybill, however, is not needed for cargo delivery and is only issued as a cargo receipt. It can either be issued in hard copy format or soft copy format. A Sea Waybill is not negotiable and cannot be assigned to a third party.
35 See, for example, the standard-form Sea Waybill of Zim Integrated Shipping Services Ltd., at clause 4(II)(a) and (b), which is in similar language to the corresponding clause cited above from that company’s standard-form Bill of Lading.
The carrier will issue EITHER a Bill of Lading OR a Sea Waybill. The SWB looks almost identical to the B/L and works much in the same way, but there are a few fundamentally different points that we must be aware of, in particular that the SWB is not a document of title.
1) Introduction Bills of lading and sea waybills are two of the most common forms of transport document used in contemporary shipping. Their similarities and difference, and respective uses, in such trade should be clearly understood by all who are involved in that activity.
You are required to use the Bill of Lading when; 1  The goods are being traded/sold in transit. 2  The letter of credit terms require that a negotiable document to be used. 3  The laws and regulations of a country demand the production of a paper Bill of Lading.
The Sea Waybill and its Legal Implications. written by: Manu • edited by: Lamar Stonecypher • updated: 3/25/2009. An earlier article in this series explained the use of the Bill of Lading at sea. One of the types of a B/L is a Sea Waybill (or Straight Bill, or SWB) of Lading.