The eagle is present across a range of beliefs or philosophies; The Eagle represents spiritual protection, carries prayers, and brings strength, courage, wisdom, illumination of spirit, healing, creation, and a knowledge of magic. The eagle has an ability to see hidden spiritual truths, rising above the material to see the spiritual. The eagle was the messenger to the gods and the sun, a symbol of eternal life. To the Romans; The eagle was the carrier of Jupiter's thunderbolts and a sign of power, which was adopted as a symbol of the Roman emperors, and was carried before the Empire's legions.
In early Christianity the eagle was seen as a symbol of hope and strength, representing salvation. The eagle appears twice in the book of Revelation; both times in a context that suggests it is on the side of God. In Islam, the eagle represents warlike ferocity, nobility and dominion. 
The eagle is also associated with the sun. As a Christian symbol, the eagle represents salvation, redemption and resurrection. The eagle has been represented over the centuries in a variety of different ways: wing tips pointed up or down, wings closed or rising or the eagle displayed from above with one or two heads.
The eagle is used in heraldry as a charge, as a supporter, and as a crest. Sometimes just the headless body (sans head eagle) or the head replaced with another symbol, as well as parts of the eagle, such as its head, wing or leg, are used as a charge or crest. The eagle as a symbol of Saladin is disputed by archaeologists. The symbol of an eagle was found on the west wall of the Cairo Citadel (constructed by Saladin), and so is assumed by many to be his personal symbol.
Eagle Symbol The eagle is a symbol for power, action, speed and perception, it has powers of intuition, creativity and can balance power with grace all these because the eagle has sharp vision which gives it the ability to see hidden truths and spiritual principles. 
The dictionary of scripture and myth, describes the eagle as; A symbol of the holy spirit, which flies, as it were, through the mind (air) from the higher nature (heaven) to the lower nature (earth) and soars aloft to the self (sun). In ancient Egypt and Babel the eagle was; The symbol of the noon sun, which signified the Great Spirit. The eagle was the messenger to the gods and the sun, a symbol of eternal life. To the Romans; The eagle was the carrier of Jupiter's thunderbolts and a sign of power, which was adopted as a symbol of the Roman emperors, and was carried before the Empire's legions.