How far away is Alicante from Madrid, Barcelona or Benidorm. A guide distances and on how to get there from Alicante. An overview on the entire Costa Blanca area. Ideal for first time visitors to get an idea of where each city is located. A detailed guide including a map of car hire companies at Alicante airport, where to pick-up your car and where to return it. Information about the central bus station in downtown Alicante, including a map and details how to get there from the airport. Which airline flies directly to Alicante.
Travel in style with a chauffeured taxi or shuttle bus from Alicante Airport to Benidorm, Valencia or Murcia. Our transport fleet comes fully equipped with experienced drivers who have an in-depth knowledge of Benidorm, and the cheapest way to get there. 
Benidorm’s two beaches, the playa de poniente and the playa de levante are about 5 km long in total. Along most of the Playa de Poniente Beach, a main Benidorm road with heavy traffic passes by. So, if you are looking for a quiet and relaxing bath under Benidorm’s sun, you should go for the Playa de Levante. The mild Benidorm weather does not even go below 19° C during winter times, which makes the area ideal not just for vacations. To get from Alicante Airport to Benidorm, you can take the new Benidorm Bus from the Airport or the narrow gauge railway from downtown Alicante. The so called FGV is the little Benidorm Denia train which is also a wonderful way of getting around the Costa Blanca area
Welcome to Benidorm-Costa Blanca, Spain. Benidorm is a leisure and holiday town located on the southern Spain, 41 km. (25 miles) from Alicante on the Costa Blanca coast. Benidorm is one of the most popular choice of millions of holidaymakers every year in Spain and Europe. It is one of the world's largest and vibrant resorts
Benidorm has a good local bus service which connects to local towns such as Altea, Alicante and Calpe. A new coach and bus station opened in 2008 with International routes to many European countries such as Bulgaria, Romania, Italy and France is situated at the far west end of town. From Alicante airport Licensed taxis operate from the terminal building with a journey time of 30-45 minutes to Benidorm. As taxi drivers have to pay a heavy fee to get a taxi licence, this is reflected in the fares charged.
Benidorm is a seaside resort on the Costa Blanca in the province of Alicante, Valencian Community, Spain. It has a large Spanish population as well as a large retired British population. Benidorm was built compact thanks to the foresight of the town's mayor who in the 1960s saw a vision of a resort which grew upwards. From Alicante airport Licensed taxis operate from the terminal building with a journey time of 30-45 minutes to Benidorm. As taxi drivers have to pay a heavy fee to get a taxi licence, this is reflected in the fares charged.
A real alternative to the airport in Alicante, the San Javier Murcia Airport is the closest airport to the southern Costa Blanca area. Tips on car hire in Murcia and at Murcia Airport. Includes listing of rental car companies available at Murcia’s San Javier airport. A detailed guide including a map of car hire companies at Alicante airport, where to pick-up your car and where to return it. Information about the central bus station in downtown Alicante, including a map and details how to get there from the airport. Which airline flies directly to Alicante.
Benidorm. Benidorm or Benedorm like some like to call it, located about 45 km northeast of Alicante, just south of Altea is one main attraction along the costa blanca. Despite its skyscraper skyline, it stands for beach and nightlife, Lots of Benidorm nightlife. The mild Benidorm weather does not even go below 19° C during winter times, which makes the area ideal not just for vacations. To get from Alicante Airport to Benidorm, you can take the new Benidorm Bus from the Airport or the narrow gauge railway from downtown Alicante. The so called FGV is the little Benidorm Denia train which is also a wonderful way of getting around the Costa Blanca area
Benidorm is one of the most important tourist resorts on Alicante’s Costa Blanca. Its fine sandy beaches, crystal clear waters and outstanding year-round climate have made it justly famous, and it also has a full range of first rate infrastructures and services. The region has several wines with the Alicante Designation of Origin label, including misteleta (sweet wine); it is also famous for its horchata (a milky drink made with tiger nuts, and protected with the designation of origin label). Benidorm is a festive town which loves to party.