Average Panera Bread hourly pay ranges from approximately $7.30 per hour for Dishwasher/Busser to $50.00 per hour for Hourly Manager/Shift Supervisor. The average Panera Bread salary ranges from approximately $15,000 per year for Sandwich Maker to $120,000 per year for Director of Operations. Salary information comes from 6,633 data points collected directly from employees, users, and jobs on Indeed
Welcome to your new associate portal designed to give you access to the information you need! Workday is your new source to access your personal, vacation and pay information-bring together several systems in a one-stop shop for you. If you need help navigating Workday, reach out to your manager or visit the Harvest page here. Since Workday has pay information for 2015 on, you can access your pay information from 2014 and earlier on the Ceridian page at www.panerabread.com/selfservice.
Panera Bread Company is a restaurant firm headquartered in Richmond Heights, Mo. that hires for Baker positions, Cashier roles, and more. Panera Bread Company laborers see wages hovering around $9.22 per hour. Adding overtime bumps the median up to $15.30. Though where you live and your experience level are influential salary factors for those at Panera Bread Company, what you do at the company turns out to have the greatest impact on paycheck size. This report is based on responses to the PayScale salary survey. (around $9.75) are the next top-paying cities. Mankato, Minn. is one of the lowest-paid cities, with earnings averaging $7.72. Across its U.S. offices, the state of Massachusetts pays Panera Bread Company the most — $11.25 per hour on average.
1 You can only upload files of type 3GP, 3GPP, MP4, MOV, AVI, MPG, MPEG, or RM. 2  You can only upload photos smaller than 5 MB. 3  You can only upload videos smaller than 600MB. 4  You can only upload a photo (png, jpg, jpeg) or a video (3gp, 3gpp, mp4, mov, avi, mpg, mpeg, rm). 5  You can only upload a photo or a video. 1 You can only upload videos smaller than 600MB. 2
1 You can only upload photos smaller than 5 MB. 2  You can only upload videos smaller than 600MB. 3  You can only upload a photo (png, jpg, jpeg) or a video (3gp, 3gpp, mp4, mov, avi, mpg, mpeg, rm). 4  You can only upload a photo or a video. 1 You can only upload videos smaller than 600MB. 2
Im applying for that job at panera. i dont know how much they earn. ergo, ive never had a j so i dont know how much pay i should 'desire' per hour. anyone whos got a hob, please, tell me how much i should put down for pay. thank you, and no douchbags or i will flag. Add your answer. Source. I applied at panera that long ago and that's what they said. min wage where I am (cincinnati OH) is like 7.40 I think so i usually just put 8. you can leave it blank and if they ask just say anything will do lol. Good luck! Jenn Ren · 4 years ago.
Im applying for that job at panera. i dont know how much they earn. ergo, ive never had a j so i dont know how much pay i should 'desire' per hour. anyone whos got a hob, please, tell me how much i should put down for pay. thank you, and no douchbags or i will flag. Follow. 3 answers. I applied at panera that long ago and that's what they said. min wage where I am (cincinnati OH) is like 7.40 I think so i usually just put 8. you can leave it blank and if they ask just say anything will do lol. Good luck! Jenn Ren · 4 years ago.