See Also: Schools with Cybernetics Programs. Cybernetics is the interdisciplinary study of the structure of complex systems, especially communication processes, control mechanisms and feedback principles. Cybernetics is closely related to control theory and systems theory.
Medical Definition of CYBERNETICS. : the science of communication and control theory that is concerned especially with the comparative study of automatic control systems (as the nervous system and brain and mechanical-electrical communication systems). — cy·ber·net·ic \-ik\ also cy·ber·net·i·cal \-i-kəl\ adjective.
The following links provide general background information on the field of Cybernetics and Systems Theory, an interdisciplinary academic domain. The best way of getting acquainted with the main ideas of cybernetics and systems theory is to read a few of the classic books or papers defining the domain.
Contemporary cybernetics began as an interdisciplinary study connecting the fields of control systems, electrical network theory, mechanical engineering, logic modeling, evolutionary biology, neuroscience, anthropology, and psychology in the 1940s, often attributed to the Macy Conferences.
Cybernetics is closely related to control theory and systems theory. Contemporary cybernetics began as an interdisciplinary study connecting the fields of control systems, electrical network theory, mechanical engineering, logic modeling, evolutionary biology and neuroscience in the 1940s.
Other fields of study which have influenced or been influenced by cybernetics include game theory; system theory (a mathematical counterpart to cybernetics); psychology, especially neuropsychology, behavioral psychology, cognitive psychology; philosophy and even architecture.
Full Definition of CYBERNETICS. : the science of communication and control theory that is concerned especially with the comparative study of automatic control systems (as the nervous system and brain and mechanical-electrical communication systems). — cy·ber·net·ic \-tik\ also cy·ber·net·i·cal \-ti-kəl\ adjective.