The anaerobic energy system provides energy in the absense of Oxygen. This is used in the first few minutes of all exercise, before there is suffiecient oxygen available at the muscles for aerobic metabolism.
There are two energy systems. The aerobic energy system, meaning 'with oxygen' which is used for long-term, steady paced exercise and day-to-day activities and Anaerobic energy system or 'without oxygen' which produces fast bursts of energy for short, powerful bursts.
3) The short-term anaerobic energy system. Like its immediate energy system brother, the short-term anaerobic energy system also produces high-powered energy. However, it is a little more enduring and can provide energy for up to 90 seconds. This energy system is exemplified by the efforts of a 400m runner.
Like the alactic anaerobic energy system, this system is also anaerobic and so it does not require any oxygen. However, unlike the alactic anaerobic energy system, this system is lactic and so it does produce lactic acid. It is also referred to as the lactic acid system or the anaerobic glycolytic system.
There are two systems within Anaerobic metabolism, which are the ATP-PC system and the lactic acid system. ATP-PC System. ATP as already discussed is a high energy molecule which is broken down to form ADP and release energy.
Two and three: the anaerobic energy systems. The anaerobic energy system is the energy system of choice for the 100m sprinter. Anaerobic means without oxygen. Our bodies can create anaerobic energy in two ways through the: 1  immediate anaerobic energy system, and; 2  short-term anaerobic energy system.
Just like the lactic anaerobic energy system, the aerobic energy system must directly recruit the active cellular respiration process to provide. energy. Food energy is converted into. by your muscle cells through a very complex series of reactions.
For example, the alactic anaerobic energy system would be the main energy source for a 100 m sprint, or a short set of a weightlifting exercise. It can provide energy immediately, it does not require any oxygen (that's what anaerobic means), and it does not produce any lactic acid (that's what alactic means).