1 Overactive bladder: The bladder muscle (detrusor) contracts involuntarily, causing some urine to leak out. 2  Detrusor overactivity is a common cause of urinary incontinence. 3  Hematuria: Blood in the urine. 4  Hematuria may be benign, or may be caused by infection or a serious condition like bladder cancer. During urination, the bladder muscles contract, and two sphincters (valves) open to allow urine to flow out. Urine exits the bladder into the urethra, which carries urine out of the body. Because it passes through the penis, the urethra is longer in men (8 inches) than in women (1.5 inches).
The bladder is a hollow organ in the pelvis with flexible, muscular walls. Its main function is to store urine before it leaves the body. The average adult bladder holds about 2 cups of urine. Urine is made by the kidneys and is then carried to the bladder through tubes called ureters. When you urinate, the muscles in the bladder contract, and urine is forced out of the bladder through a tube called the urethra. In women, the urethra is very short and opens just in front of the vagina. The wall of the bladder has 4 main layers. 1  The innermost lining is made up of cells called urothelial or transitional cells, so this layer is called the urothelium or transitional epithelium. 2  Beneath the urothelium is a thin layer of connective tissue, blood vessels, and nerves, which is called the lamina propria.
The urinary bladder is the organ that collects urine excreted by the kidneys before disposal by urination. Urine enters the bladder via the ureters and exits via the urethra. There is no exact measurement for the volume of the human bladder, but different sources mention 500 mL (~17 oz) to 1000 mL (~34 oz).
The detrusor muscle is a layer of the urinary bladder wall made of smooth muscle fibers arranged in spiral, longitudinal, and circular bundles. Urine enters the bladder via the ureters and exits via the urethra. There is no exact measurement for the volume of the human bladder, but different sources mention 500 mL (~17 oz) to 1000 mL (~34 oz).
The bladder, also known as the urinary bladder, is an expandable muscular sac that stores urine before it is excreted out of the body through the urethra. It is located in the lower abdominal area near the pelvic bones. Read More. The bladder, like the stomach, is an expandable saclike organ that contracts when it is empty. The inner lining of the bladder tucks into the folds and expands out to accommodate liquid. When empty, the bladder’s muscle wall becomes thicker and the entire bladder becomes firm.
The urinary bladder is a muscular sac in the pelvis, just above and behind the pubic bone. When empty, the bladder is about the size and shape of a pear. Urine is made in the kidneys, and travels down two tubes called ureters to the bladder. The bladder stores urine, allowing urination to be infrequent and voluntary. The bladder is lined by layers of muscle tissue that stretch to accommodate urine. The normal capacity of the bladder is 400 to 600 mL. During urination, the bladder muscles contract, and two sphincters (valves) open to allow urine to flow out. Urine exits the bladder into the urethra, which carries urine out of the body. Because it passes through the penis, the urethra is longer in men (8 inches) than in women (1.5 inches).
A hollow muscular, and distensible (or elastic) organ, the bladder sits on the pelvic floor. Urine enters the bladder via the ureters and exits via the urethra. There is no exact measurement for the volume of the human bladder, but different sources mention 500 mL (~17 oz) to 1000 mL (~34 oz).
Blood in the urine does not always mean you have bladder cancer. More often it is caused by other things like an infection, benign (non-cancerous) tumors, stones in the kidney or bladder, or other benign kidney diseases. But it is important to have it checked by a doctor so the cause can be found. 
The bladder is a hollow organ located in the pelvis, or lower abdomen. The bladder has two important functions: 1  It helps to store urine until it is full. 2  When the bladder becomes full, there is an urge to urinate, and the bladder empties completely without any leakage. 
The bladder. The bladder is the organ that stores urine. Urine is made in the kidneys and passes to the bladder down two tubes called the ureters. The bladder is a stretchy bag made of muscle tissue. It can store about 500mls (or 3 cups) of urine.