take the number of calories you consume daily, and take 20% of this number (the amount of fat calories per day you need). in your case, you should consume 360 fat calori … es. one gram of fat is equal to 9 fat calories, so divide the 360 grams of fat by nine, to give you 40 grams of dat per day. Answer   You technically don't need any amount of sugar. The FDA recommends those consuming 2000 calories a day should consume about 300 grams from carbohydrates … - but not all of these should be sugars.
That's a maximum of 30g of added sugar a day for adults, which is roughly seven sugar cubes. Children should have less – no more than 19g a day for children aged 4 to 6 years old (5 sugar cubes), and no more than 24g (6 sugar cubes) for children aged 7 to 10 years old. 
The average American consumes 3 pounds of sugar a week and 130 pounds a year, reports Forbes.com. This is equal to about 3,550 pounds of sugar in a lifetime. The consumption of added sugar accounts for an intake of 500 calories per day, which can cause a weight gain of 1 pound per week.
Increased sugar intake is also linked to increased risk for type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular disease. We Eat Four Times As Much Sugar As We Should! According to a 2009 study in Circulation, annual sugar intake has increased 19% from 1970 to 2005. One of the easiest ways to reduce sugar intake is to limit consumption of sweetened beverages. For example, a 12 ounce can of soda contains around 40 grams of sugar! This alone is more than the recommended amount of added sugar for the entire day according to the AHA guidelines! Juice also is a concentrated source of sugar, often containing just as much as soda
For instance, the World Health Organization recommends that no more than 10% your daily calories should come from added sugar, which is about 35 grams for the average female and 45 grams for the average male, both of which are higher than the AHA recommendation. One of the easiest ways to reduce sugar intake is to limit consumption of sweetened beverages. For example, a 12 ounce can of soda contains around 40 grams of sugar! This alone is more than the recommended amount of added sugar for the entire day according to the AHA guidelines! Juice also is a concentrated source of sugar, often containing just as much as soda
For example, the World Health Organization recommends keeping added sugar intake to 10% of total calories. For the average 2000 calorie-diet that's a maximum of 50 grams. The American Heart Association recommends 6 teaspoons of sugar for women and 9 for men (1 teaspoon of sugar has about 4g of sugar). The primary source of added sugars are soft drinks and other sugar-sweetened beverag
Women should limit sugar intake to no more than 6 teaspoons per day, which provides about 100 calories. Men should limit sugar intake to no more than 9 teaspoons, or about 150 calories. In contrast, the average adult consumes 22 teaspoons per day. This is equal to about 3,550 pounds of sugar in a lifetime. The consumption of added sugar accounts for an intake of 500 calories per day, which can cause a weight gain of 1 pound per week.
How much is 10 percent? Well, in a 2000-calorie-a-day diet, 10 percent would be equal to about 50 grams, or 10 teaspoons of sugar. Unfortunately, most Americans consume 30 to 40 teaspoons or more of refined sugar per day. Most of this sugar comes from food products to which sugar has been added, such as soda, candy and baked goods. A can of soda alone can contain around 10 teaspoons of added sugar! So in general, if you've had a can of soda, you've had as much added sugar as is healthy for the day. Naturally-occurring sugars, such as those in an apple or a glass of milk, are not included in the less-than-10-percent-a-day recommendation.
The recommended sugar intake for adult women is 22 grams of sugar per day, for adult men, it’s 36 grams daily, and for children, it’s 12 grams a day. Many people focus on calories rather than sugar since diabetics are supposed to look at sugar not you and me. But unfortunately, a new report from the Center for Disease Control and Prevention shows that among Americans age 20 and older, as many as 73 million Americans have prediabetes, which is about 1 in 3 Americans!