Slipstreaming can save time and money. It is possible to add service packs and other updates and patches to the install source, as well as extra drivers. In a Windows environment, slipstreaming all needed drivers onto the install source will save time downloading them from the Internet. For other uses, see Slipstream (disambiguation) . In computer jargon, to slipstream updates, patches or service packs means to integrate them into the installation files of their original software, so that the resulting files will allow a direct installation of the updated software.
Slipstreaming or  drafting  works because of the relative motion of the fluid in the slipstream. A slipstream created by turbulent flow has a slightly lower pressure than the ambient fluid around the object. When the flow is laminar, the pressure behind the object is higher than the surrounding fluid. In general, the more aerodynamic an object is, the smaller and weaker its slipstream will be. For example, a box-like front (relative to the object's motion) will collide with the medium's particles at a high rate, transferring more momentum from the object to the fluid than a more aerodynamic object.
It's been a while since I've covered slipstreaming, or combining, a service pack into Windows (link), but the release of Windows XP Service Pack with Advanced Security Technologies (hereafter referred to as SP2) warrants some discussion. 
Zaus slipstreaming Biaggi, Superbike race. A driving tactic when a driver is able to catch the car ahead and duck in behind its rear part of the car to benefit from a reduction in drag over its body and hopefully be able to achieve a superior maximum speed to slingshot past bvefore the next corner. 
Aero Body Pro is unlocked by scoring 120 seconds of slipstreaming with aero body equipped. Slipstreaming is done by driving behind a racer or cop car and riding their draft. You'll see 'slipstreaming' in the bottom right corner of your screen. 
Microsoft's own command line slipstreaming tools were pretty straightforward to use with Windows XP, but the process changed and became more of a chore with Windows Vista. Fortunately, third-party utilities make slipstreaming less complicated and offer additional features. That means if you have, say, a Windows 8.1 disc, you can slipstream the latest updates into the disc itself, so those updates are installed with Windows instead of afterward.
nLite is an excellent slipstreaming program that allows the user to point and click their way through the disk creation process. The program can create an ISO image or burn slipstreamed files directly to CD. In addition nLite offers a vast array of tweaking options. Post 4. @everetra-Actually there is an alternative to both slipstreaming and the download process if what you need is XP Service Pack 3. You can just order the CD from Microsoft. They will send you the CD complete with all the updates, and you’ll be good to go.
Slipstreaming is a method in which you integrate software updates with the original installation media. That means if you have, say, a Windows 8.1 disc, you can slipstream the latest updates into the disc itself, so those updates are installed with Windows instead of afterward.
Seed dispersal by the slipstream of a passing car. A slipstream is a region behind a moving object in which a wake of fluid (typically air or water) is moving at velocities comparable to the moving object, relative to the ambient fluid through which the object is moving. In general, the more aerodynamic an object is, the smaller and weaker its slipstream will be. For example, a box-like front (relative to the object's motion) will collide with the medium's particles at a high rate, transferring more momentum from the object to the fluid than a more aerodynamic object.