Canker sores, however, occur only inside the mouth--on the tongue and the inside linings of the cheeks, lips and throat. Fever blisters, also called cold sores, usually occur outside the mouth--on the lips, chin, cheeks or in the nostrils. When fever blisters do occur inside the mouth, it is usually on the gums or the roof of the mouth. Inside the mouth, fever blisters are smaller than canker sores, heal more quickly, and often begin as a blister. Both canker sores and fever blisters have plagued mankind for thousands of years. There are two types of herpes simplex virus. Type 1 usually causes oral herpes, or fever blisters. Type 2 usually causes genital herpes. Although both type 1 and type 2 viruses can infect oral tissues, more than 95 percent of recurrent fever blister outbreaks are caused by the type 1 virus.
Step 4. Relax. It might seem like strange advice, but stress can trigger fever blisters on the lip. If you are prone to breakouts of fever blisters, a change in your routine or environment can cause a massive problem. Remove the ice for about five minutes and reapply at least one more time. The cold deadens the fever blister on the lip, preventing it from forming. Apply aloe vera to the site of the fever blister. Either grow your own aloe vera plants or purchase 100 percent aloe vera gel from the pharmacy or health food store.
Cold sores, sometimes called fever blisters, are groups of small blisters on the lip and around the mouth. The skin around the blisters is often red, swollen, and sore. The blisters may break open, leak a clear fluid, and then scab over after a few days. They usually heal in several days to 2 weeks. 
Gently washing the blisters with soap and water may also help to prevent the spread of the outbreak. 1  Wash your hands frequently, and try to avoid touching the sore. 2  If you touch the cold sore, you can then spread it to other people or to other places on your own body, such as the eyes and genitals. 1 You may be able to feel a small bump or hardness in the skin in conjunction with the tingling sensation. 2  Other early symptoms include, itching of the lips or skin around mouth, sore throat, swollen glands, and pain when swallowing, and a fever.
Step 1. Apply ice to the blister area the first moment you feel tenderness or tingling on your lip. Wrap an ice cube in a clean cloth and place on the lip for as long as you can stand it. Remove the ice for about five minutes and reapply at least one more time. The cold deadens the fever blister on the lip, preventing it from forming. Apply aloe vera to the site of the fever blister. Either grow your own aloe vera plants or purchase 100 percent aloe vera gel from the pharmacy or health food store.
Cold sores, sometimes called fever blisters, are groups of small blisters on the lip and around the mouth. The skin around the blisters is often red, swollen, and sore. The blisters may break open, leak a clear fluid, and then scab over after a few days. They usually heal in several days to 2 weeks. Cold sores are caused by the herpes simplex virus (HSV) . There are two types of herpes simplex virus: HSV-1 and HSV-2. Cold sores can also be spread to other areas of the body. The first symptoms of cold sores may include pain around your mouth and on your lips, a fever, a sore throat, or swollen glands in your neck or other part
Step 2. Apply aloe vera to the site of the fever blister. Either grow your own aloe vera plants or purchase 100 percent aloe vera gel from the pharmacy or health food store. Use pure aloe vera gel because other additives could increase sensitivity or irritation in the area of your lip that is prone to fever blisters. Remove the ice for about five minutes and reapply at least one more time. The cold deadens the fever blister on the lip, preventing it from forming
Both cold sore and fever blister refer to the lip blisters caused by infections of the Herpes Simplex I virus (not to be confused with Herpes Simplex II, which is generally associated with genital herpes). Cold Sores are viral infections which cause recurrent groups of irritating, even painful blisters on the lips. A sore or blister will typically take a few days to break. It will be contagious to others as long as it is visible and occasionally even beyond. Eliminating all of the sources that can contribute to the onset of cold sores and fever blisters is impossible.
Fever blisters, also known as cold sores, are caused by the herpes simplex type 1 virus. An outbreak usually occurs on or around the mouth and typically heals within two to three weeks. Fever blisters can be a lifelong irritant, since the virus remains dormant in the body throughout your life. The herpes virus that causes fever blisters thrive in moist, warm environments; using hydrogen peroxide will keep the affected area dry and free of moisture. 1  Dip a cotton ball in 3% hydrogen peroxide solution and dab it over the blisters.
Make sure you have a cold sore. A cold sore is the same as a fever blister, but it is not the same as a canker sore. Canker sores are mouth ulcers that occur inside the mouth. While cold sores may on occasion develop inside the mouth, they are usually smaller than canker sores, and they start as blisters. 1 You may be able to feel a small bump or hardness in the skin in conjunction with the tingling sensation. 2  Other early symptoms include, itching of the lips or skin around mouth, sore throat, swollen glands, and pain when swallowing, and a fever.