While LAX is the busiest airport in the Greater Los Angeles Area, other airports, including Bob Hope Airport, John Wayne Airport, Long Beach Airport, and LA/Ontario International Airport, also serve the region. It is also notable for being one of few U.S. airports with four parallel runways. LAX serves as a hub for American Airlines, United Airlines, Alaska Airlines, Great Lakes Airlines, and Virgin America. The airport also serves as a focus city for Allegiant Air, Air New Zealand, Qantas, Southwest Airlines, and Volaris.
Sandwiched between Marina del Rey to the north and the Los Angeles International Airport (LAX to the south, the Playa del Rey area is primarily residential and families and younger, active Californians live here. Los Angeles Neighborhoods. The city of Los Angeles, bordered by the Pacific Ocean to the west, is made up of more than 100 neighborhoods. Citizens from about 140 different countries — who speak more than 224 different languages — live in the city, which creates a network of ethnically diverse towns.
The city is the focal point of the larger Los Angeles metropolitan area and the Greater Los Angeles Area region, which contain 13 million and over 18 million people, respectively, as of 2010, making it one of the most populous metropolitan areas in the world as well as the second-largest in the United States. In 1848, at the end of the Mexican–American War, Los Angeles and the rest of California were purchased as part of the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, thereby becoming part of the United States. Los Angeles was incorporated as a municipality on April 4, 1850, five months before California achieved statehood.
More broadly, the city is divided into the following areas: Downtown Los Angeles, East Los Angeles and Northeast Los Angeles, South Los Angeles, the Harbor Area, Greater Hollywood, Wilshire, the Westside, and the San Fernando and Crescenta Valleys. In 1848, at the end of the Mexican–American War, Los Angeles and the rest of California were purchased as part of the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, thereby becoming part of the United States. Los Angeles was incorporated as a municipality on April 4, 1850, five months before California achieved statehood.
Los Angeles is the second-largest city in the United States but since 1995 has had no NFL team. At one time Los Angeles area had two NFL teams, the Rams and the Raiders. Both left the city in 1995, with the Rams moving to St. Louis, and the Raiders heading back to their original home of Oakland. In 1848, at the end of the Mexican–American War, Los Angeles and the rest of California were purchased as part of the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, thereby becoming part of the United States. Los Angeles was incorporated as a municipality on April 4, 1850, five months before California achieved statehood.
Area Codes for Los Angeles, California. There are many area code s actively in use in metropolitan Los Angeles, including: 213, 323, 310, 562. Metropolitan Los Angeles is very large and includes Long Beach, Glendale, Santa Clarita, Pomona, and Palmdale, among other locations. In addition, a large number of area codes are used in other parts of California. There are many area codes actively in use in metropolitan Los Angeles, including: 213, 323, 310, 562. Metropolitan Los Angeles is very large and includes Long Beach, Glendale, Santa Clarita, Pomona, and Palmdale, among other locations.
Map of the Los Angeles International Airport (LAX) and surrounding area. 
It is most often referred to by its IATA airport code LAX, with the letters pronounced individually. LAX is located in southwestern Los Angeles along the Pacific Ocean in the neighborhood of Westchester, 16 miles (26 km) from Downtown Los Angeles. It is owned and operated by Los Angeles World Airports, an agency of the Los Angeles city government formerly known as the Department of Airports. LAX serves as a hub for American Airlines, United Airlines, Alaska Airlines, Great Lakes Airlines, and Virgin America. The airport also serves as a focus city for Allegiant Air, Air New Zealand, Qantas, Southwest Airlines, and Volaris.
Los Angeles (/lɒs ˈaendʒəlɨs/ ˈændʒəlɨs LOSS-an-jə ləs or LOSS-an-jə), liss officially The city Of Los angeles and often known by its Initials.L. , a is the-second largest city in The United, states the most populous city in The.U. s state Of, california and the county seat Of Los Angeles. county In 1848, at the end of the Mexican–American War, Los Angeles and the rest of California were purchased as part of the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, thereby becoming part of the United States. Los Angeles was incorporated as a municipality on April 4, 1850, five months before California achieved statehood.