The average cost of homeowners insurance will be determined by several different factors that you may be able to control. The value of your house is going to be the main characteristic that determines the average price that you will pay for homeowners insurance. An owner with a more expensive home will have to pay a higher average cost of homeowners insurance, as they will be protecting property that is worth more money. The age and location of your house will also play a part in determining the average cost that you will pay for homeowners insurance. The average cost of your plan will depend on the coverage options that you decide to include. Cheaper options will generally have less coverage while the more expensive policies will come with a slightly higher average cost of homeowners insurance.
Estimates. According to the Federal Reserve Bureau, the average cost of an annual premium for homeowners insurance is between $300 and $1,000. For most homeowners, the annual costs for a homeowners insurance policy can be estimated by dividing the value of the home by 1,000, then multiplying the result by $3.50.
Well, according to the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, the average cost for homeowners insurance in 2006 was around $804. This is a national average, and some states are much higher and lower than this number. We will get to the most and least expensive states in just a moment. 1 The average cost of home insurance given in this article refers to the annual premium. 2  So when we say that a policy costs $800 on average, we are referring to the amount paid annually (the premium).
HOMEOWNERS INSURANCE EXPENDITURES. The average homeowners insurance premium rose by 5.6 percent in 2012, following a 7.7 percent increase in 2011, according to a February 2015 study by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners. The average renters insurance premium was unchanged in 2012, after rising 1.1 percent the previous year. Florida had the highest average homeowners insurance premium in 2012 ($2,084) and Idaho had the lowest ($538). The countrywide average homeowners insurance premium was $1,034 in 2012. (See tables in EXPENDITURES FOR HOMEOWNERS AND RENTERS INSURANCE section below)
How Much Does It Cost? The average yearly premium cost for U.S. homeowners insurance in 2008 (as of 2010, the latest year for which data is available) was $791, according the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, but premiums vary widely and depend on multiple factors. 
Further, the cost of renter's insurance depends on the insurance company selected. According to Independent Insurance Agents & Brokers of America (IIAB), the average cost for renter's insurance is about $12 per month for $30,000 worth of property coverage and $100,000 of liability coverage. Renter's insurance premiums are based on several factors such as the type of dwelling you live in, the type of coverage you select, the value of the items insured and the amount of the policy deductible. An insurance deductible is the part of the coverage that the insured is responsible for in the event of a loss.
The average cost of homeowners insurance is dependent on a lot of different factors. The homeowners insurance policy that you purchase for your home is very important. Without this type of protection, you are taking huge risks with your house. The average cost of your plan will depend on the coverage options that you decide to include. Cheaper options will generally have less coverage while the more expensive policies will come with a slightly higher average cost of homeowners insurance.
Home insurance is designed to cover homeowners in the event of any unforeseen catastrophe that damages their home. The average cost of home insurance will be influenced primarily by the location of your residential property and the extent of your insurance coverage. Several types of home insurance are common or typical to specific regions or locales, such as damage to floodwaters, hurricanes, earthquakes, etc. Furthermore, the average monthly premium for families was $414 (or $4,968 per year). Between 2010 and 2011, average premiums increased 9.6% for individual policies and 5.6% for families. The average cost of health insurance ranges between $119 in Iowa and $382 in New York.