You're probably curious to know what it's really like. Clomid success rates are relatively high and Clomid side effects are relatively low. This fertility drug can help many women get pregnant. However, this ovulation-inducing drug does not guarantee pregnancy, nor does it come without potential risk. What will my life be like on Clomid? Your doctor will start your first dose of Clomid (typically 50 mg) orally on either day 2, 3, 4, or 5 of your cycle. You will take one pill a day for the next five days. Ovulation will often occur on day 13 to 18
One of the most common fertility drugs that is used today is Clomid. It is a household name as far as fertility drugs are concerned. Clomid is one of the most effective fertility drugs on the market, but what exactly does Clomid do to help with fertility? Read on to find out all the details. 
Clomid for Ovulation Induction. Clomid (Clomiphene Citrate) is a fertility drug used for the treatment of ovulation disorders. Clomid may be used to treat women with complete failure to ovulate or for the treatment of luteal phase defect. 
Economically priced and easily available, Clomid is taken orally for only five days each month. Clomid therapy is usually timed to help the woman ovulate on or around day 14 of a regular 28-day cycle, the popular dose being one daily 50 mg. tablet for five days starting on cycle day three or five. If this does not work, doctors generally double the daily dose to two tablets (100 mg) in her next cycle. In women with irregular menstruation, Clomid helps small and immature follicles grow to maturity (about 20 millimeters in diameter). Also, low estradiol level in a woman’s blood correlates with an inadequately stimulated, small follicle.
Even if you already ovulate, Clomid can help regulate your cycle to make this more a possibility. In order to be the most successful with this, it is important that you track your ovulation cycle. One of the most effective manners in doing this is by using a basal thermometer and tracking your daily temperature. 2. Not only does Clomid help you ovulate, but it will help you ovulate regularly. This means that you will be able to track your ovulation cycle and will be able to time intercourse around the time when you are the most fertile during the month.
Dear Kourtnie, Clomid is a drug that helps to induce and regulate ovulation and is usually prescribed for women with anovulation. Yes, Clomid can have adverse side effects. Some of these side effects are mood swings, headaches, fatigue and breast tenderness. Even if you are using a fertility medication for only one part of your cycle, we do not suggest using any herbs for fertility during other times in that same cycle. Clomid is usually give for 5 days in the beginning of the cycle to stimulate ovulation.
The way that Clomid works to help with fertility problems is somewhat complicated. Clomid reacts with all of the tissues in the body that have estrogen receptors, such as the hypothalamus, pituitary, ovary, endometrium, vagina, and cervix. Clomid has been used to help with fertility problems by inducing ovulation for more that thirty years. It is not associated with an increase in premature labor or in other complications of pregnancy.
Clomid (Clomiphene). Clomid is one of the most popular prescribed fertility drugs and it helps to release one or multiple eggs in a cycle. Clomid is the number one fertility drug, however, there are a lot more out there. It is just typically the first one that is prescribed
For women facing infertility due to anovulation (lack of ovulation), or irregular ovulation, due to PCOS or other fertility issues, Clomid is often one of the first fertility medications suggested by doctors. Even if you are using a fertility medication for only one part of your cycle, we do not suggest using any herbs for fertility during other times in that same cycle. Clomid is usually give for 5 days in the beginning of the cycle to stimulate ovulation.