In cell biology, the nucleus (pl. nuclei; from Latin nucleus or nuculeus, meaning kernel) is a membrane-enclosed organelle found in eukaryotic cells. Eukaryotes usually have a single nucleus, but a few cell types have no nuclei, and a few others have many.
The semifluid matrix found inside the nucleus is called nucleoplasm. Within the nucleoplasm, most of the nuclear material consists of chromatin, the less condensed form of the cell's DNA that organizes to form chromosomes during mitosis or cell division.
The nucleus is a membrane-enclosed organelle found in eukaryotic cells. It contains the genetic material of the cell, organized as multiple long linear DNA molecules that coil around to form chromosomes. The transcription of RNA also takes place in the nucleus.
The nucleus is an organelle that is surrounded by a double membrane called the nuclear envelope. The nuclear envelope separates the contents of the nucleus from the rest of the cell. Eukaryotic cells also have a cell membrane (plasma membrane), cytoplasm, cytoskeleton, and various cellular organelles.
The nucleus is a highly specialized organelle that serves as the information processing and administrative center of the cell.
Components in a nucleus [edit]. The cell nucleus is an important organelle because it is where genes and their controlling factors are formed. In order to do so, it needs the helps of the stored components: 1  Chromosomes: store and organize genes that allow cell division. 2  Nuclear pores: transport regulatory factos and gene products.
Nucleus-Organelle. The nucleus of a cell contains all the genetic information required to perform the functions within an organism and is found within the nuclear membrane. Please contribute to this project, if you have more information about this term feel free to edit this page.
Membrane Bound Organelles. 1  The Nucleus is the largest organelle in a cell. 2  It contains a dense structure called the Nucleolus and is surrounded by the Nuclear Envelope, a structure composed of two membranes, seperated by fluid, which contain a number of nuclear pores that can allow relatively large molecules through.