Trisodium phosphate is produced by neutralization of phosphoric acid using sodium hydroxides, often with sodium carbonate. The item of commerce is often partially hydrated and may range from anhydrous Na 3 PO 4, to the dodecahydrate, Na 3 PO4 ·12 H 2 O. Most often found in white powder form, it can also be called trisodium orthophosphate or simply sodium phosphate. Contents.
So the FDA states that Trisodium Phosphate (TSP) is “Not a risk in food”, yet on the website PAN Pesticides Database – Chemicals it clearly states to “Avoid all Contact”! You may be interested in knowing that TSP is also found in: 1  Processed meat products. 2  Processed cheeses. 3  Many canned soups. Phosphates are required of the human body, however trisodium phosphate is an inorganic chemical phosphate. There are other organic sources of necessary phosphates that are proven to be safe and beneficial for consumption.
Photo Credit Jupiterimages/Polka Dot/Getty Images. Tri sodium phosphate is a strong chemical typically used as a cleaning agent, food additive, stain remover and degreaser. Commonly sold as a white powder, TSP is also known as trisodium orthophosphate or sodium phosphate. Formerly, you would find this chemical used in a variety of soaps and detergents, but manufacturers no longer use TSP in these products due to ecological concern
Trisodium phosphate was at one time extensively used in formulations for a variety of consumer grade soaps and detergents, and the most common use for trisodium phosphate has been in cleaning agents. The pH of a 1% solution is 12 (i.e., very basic), and the solution is sufficiently alkaline to saponify grease and oils. The item of commerce is often partially hydrated and may range from anhydrous Na 3 PO 4, to the dodecahydrate, Na 3 PO4 ·12 H 2 O. Most often found in white powder form, it can also be called trisodium orthophosphate or simply sodium phosphate. Contents.
Trisodium phosphate (TSP) is the inorganic compound with the chemical formula Na 3 PO 4. It is a white, granular or crystalline solid, highly soluble in water producing an alkaline solution. TSPs are used as cleaning agent, lubricant, food additive, stain remover and degreaser. The item of commerce is often partially hydrated and may range from anhydrous Na 3 PO 4, to the dodecahydrate, Na 3 PO4 ·12 H 2 O. Most often found in white powder form, it can also be called trisodium orthophosphate or simply sodium phosphate. Contents.
Also known by the names TSP, E339, trisodium orthophosphate or sodium phosphate, trisodium phosphate is no longer used in consumer soaps and detergents because of ecological concerns. While it's not bad for you in small doses, the dry powdered form of trisodium phosphate is an irritant and should be handled with care. Exercise Supplement. Trisodium phosphate is sometimes taken as a nutritional supplement with the aim of improving performance during exercise and sport. Loading your body with trisodium phosphate can potentially reduce lactic acid buildup in your muscles and increase your power output and maximum oxygen uptake.
Trisodium phosphate is no longer added to commercial U.S. detergents. Photo Credit Brand X Pictures/Brand X Pictures/Getty Images. Trisodium phosphate is commonly used as a food additive. It also functions as a degreasing agent, a stain remover and a general cleaning agent. Exercise Supplement. Trisodium phosphate is sometimes taken as a nutritional supplement with the aim of improving performance during exercise and sport. Loading your body with trisodium phosphate can potentially reduce lactic acid buildup in your muscles and increase your power output and maximum oxygen uptake.
Pin It. (NaturalNews) Certain working professionals, such as carpenters and painters, might know what trisodium phosphate (TSP) is. They'd know that TSP is an industrial cleaning agent used for paint prep work, as a degreasing agent, as a mildew remover, siding cleaner and lead abating agent. 
For those of you who don't know, trisodium phosphate was a synonym for pure cleaning power!! For many years, compounds similar to this were used in clothes and dishwashing detergents... until the damage that phosphates caused to the environment was realized. 