The abbreviation is kJ. Joule is a metric system energy unit and defined as the amount of work done by a force of one newton to move an object one meter. The abbreviation is J. For other energy unit conversions, please go to Energy Conversions. Kilojoules to joules (kJ to J) conversion table shows the most common values for the quick reference. Alternatively, you may use the converter below to convert any other values. 1 Kilojoule (kJ) = 1000 Joules (J). Kilojoule is metric system energy unit (electrical, mechanical or thermal) and equals to 1000 times of the amount of work done by a force of one newton to move an object one meter
The kilojoule (kJ) is equal to one thousand (10 3) joules. Nutritional food labels in certain countries express energy in kilojoules (kJ). One square metre of the Earth receives about 1.4 kilojoules of solar radiation every second in full daylight. The joule (/ˈdʒuːl/), symbol J, is a derived unit of energy in the International System of Units. It is equal to the energy transferred (or work done) to an object when a force of one newton acts on that object in the direction of its motion through a distance of one metre (1 newton metre or N·m)
Kilocalories (kcal) to kilojoules (kJ) energy conversion calculator and how to convert. 1  kcal to kJ conversion calculator. 2  How to convert kcal to kJ. Thermochemical / food kilocalories to kilojoules. 1 kcal th = 4.184 kJ. The energy in kilojoules E (kJ) is equal to 4.184 times the energy in thermochecmical / food kilocalories E (kcal) : E (kJ) = 4.184 × E (kcal-th).
quick solution. kj.exe is an executable file which primary purpose is to start a parasite or launch some of its components. Once executed, the kj.exe file runs a process that is responsible for the parasite's payload. kj.exe is a significant part of a dangerous threat, but it can also work on its own. DO NOT execute it! In some cases a presence of kj.exe does not mean that your system is infected. The file may actually belong to some fully legitimate applications and therefore must stay intact. If you are in doubt, please scan the kj.exe file using you regular spyware remover or antivirus program.
›› Definition: Kilojoule. The SI prefix kilo represents a factor of 10 3, or in exponential notation, 1E3. So 1 kilojoule = 10 3 joules. The definition of a joule is as follows: The joule (symbol J, also called newton meter, watt second, or coulomb volt) is the SI unit of energy and work. The unit is pronounced to rhyme with tool, and is named in honor of the physicist James Prescott Joule (1818-1889)