It is of Arabic and Latin origin, and the meaning of Lina is palm tree. Diminutive of names that end with-line, such as Caroline. Also variant of Lena. Used as an independent name from the 1850s. Lina /lina/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced LEE-nah.
Lena or Leana or Lina is a female given name. The name has evolved in different languages as a variation of several earlier names. In some derivations, Lena comes from the endings of Alina and Helena. Lena is also a diminutive or short form for names that end with-line, such as Caroline, Adeline, and Madeline.
Lina is typically considered a transcription of the Arabic Līna (لينا) which is the name of a type of small, young palm tree (and means “tender, tenderness” in Arabic). Lina (लीना) is also said to come from the Sanskrit meaning “united, absorbed”. 
Muslim Meaning: The name Lina is a Muslim baby name. In Muslim the meaning of the name Lina is: Tender. American Meaning: The name Lina is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Lina is: Tender. Dutch Meaning: The name Lina is a Dutch baby name. The name Lina is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Lina is: Strong. A latinized form of Caroline. Famous bearer: the American states of North and South Carolina were named after British king Charles I.
Lina is a common female given name in Sweden, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, especially among those born after 1980. In 2011 it was one of the most popular female given names in Germany. It was initially used as a shortened form of names such as Karolina, Nikolina, Adelina, Evelina and Paulina. Since -lina is a diminutive suffix, it has no meaning of its own in Swedish. The Danish and Norwegian form is  Line . Lina is also a short form of any female name ending in -lina, such as Angelina, Evangelina, Carolina, Melina. Lina is the female form of Linas, a common given name among people of Lithuanian descent. It can also be construed as a rare feminine form of Linus
Lina is a very prominent first name for women (#841 out of 4276, Top 20%) and also a very prominent last name for all people (#46839 out of 150436, Top 31%). (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the birth name popularity of Lina for girls. Lina /lina/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced LEE-nah.
Pronounced Lee-nah. Lina is sometimes used as a nickname for Catalina and other names ending in-Lina. Anil, Ilan, Lani, Lina and Nila are anagrams of each other; they contain the same letters.
The name Lina is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Lina is: Light. Swedish Meaning: The name Lina is a Swedish baby name. In Swedish the meaning of the name Lina is: Light. The name Lina is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Lina is: Strong. A latinized form of Caroline. Famous bearer: the American states of North and South Carolina were named after British king Charles I.