Oil pastels are a unique drawing/painting medium for creating color art. Because of their unique characteristics, many artists choose to use them over other color media. Oil pastels behave in a similar fashion to traditional soft pastels, but they also process characteristics that are similar to that of crayons. 
Oil Pastels Techniques. Welcome to OilPastelTechniques.com. My name is Eric and I created this site specifically to discuss oil pastel techniques, oil pastels tips, tricks and different styles you can use with your drawings and paintings in oil pastels. Quick bio about me, I am an artist and was introduced to oil pastels in school in 2009. Oil pastels are versatile, quick to use, and I find them very enjoyable to work with. Now that I am more established in creating oil pastels art, I often am asked about various oil pastel techniques people can use for their own artwork.
What are oil pastels? Oil pastel is a painting and drawing medium with characteristics similar to pastels and wax crayons. Unlike soft or French pastel sticks, which are made with a gum or methyl cellulose binder, oil pastels consist of pigment mixed with a non-drying oil and wax binder. (source: Wikipedia) Professional grade oil pastels are non-acidic.
(June 2009). Oil pastel (also called wax oil crayon) is a painting and drawing medium with characteristics similar to pastels and wax crayons. Unlike soft or French pastel sticks, which are made with a gum or methyl cellulose binder, oil pastels consist of pigment mixed with a non-drying oil and wax binder. The surface of an oil pastel painting is therefore less powdery, but more difficult to protect with a fixative. The surface chosen for oil pastels can have a very dramatic effect on the final painting. Paper is a common surface but this medium can be used on other surfaces including wood, metal, hardboard (often known as masonite), MDF, canvas and glass.
What surfaces can oil pastels be used on? Almost any surface will work for an oil pastel substrate. Canvas, wood panels, sheets of metal, watercolor paper, sanded paper surfaces, or any surface that you want to experiment with, are just some of the substrates that oil pastels can be applied to. Unlike soft or French pastel sticks, which are made with a gum or methyl cellulose binder, oil pastels consist of pigment mixed with a non-drying oil and wax binder. (source: Wikipedia) Professional grade oil pastels are non-acidic.
Oil pastels are made with the same powdered pigments used in soft pastels. Instead of the gum binder used in soft pastels, the pigments in oil pastels are mixed with an inert, non-drying oil, such as mineral oil, and a wax binder. The result is a soft, slightly oily stick; hardness varies by manu-facturer. Once they’re applied, the pigments stay put.
Always have paper towels handy! What most beginners with oil pastels want to know first is, how to use oil pastels and what are the differences from other mediums to be aware of before beginning a new piece of art. 
Oil pastels can be blended by rubbing, use of colorless blenders, or by wash methods utilizing mineral spirits. Oil pastels have a vegetable, mineral or synthetic oil base (not linseed oil as used in oil paints) therefore do not require a primed surface. Unlike soft pastels, oil pastels have a binder that holds them to the painting surface. They are responsive to a wide variety of techniques from direct drawing to painterly methods.