Yersinia pestis can also lead to the black plague where the bacteria enters the victim's blood and causes a septic shock (this form of the disease is alternatively called septicemic plague and shows rapid mortality), where discolouration of the skin is due to coagulation of blood. 
Plague is a disease caused by the bacterium Yersinia pestis (yer-SIN-e-uh PES-tis). It has been in existence for at least 2,000 years and in the twenty-first century is still found in Africa, Asia, South America, and North America. There are three types of plague. In septicemic plague, the bacteria multiply in the blood, causing symptoms such as fever, chills, weakness, abdominal * pain, nausea (NAW-zee-uh), and vomiting. As the infection progresses, the blood pressure drops and the blood is unable to clot * normally.
Yersinia pestis bacteria can cause three different types of plague: bubonic, septicemic, or pneumonic. In bubonic plague, the most common form, bacteria infect the lymph system and causes it to become inflamed. (The lymph or lymphatic system is a major component of your body's immune system. The organs within the lymphatic system are the tonsils, adenoids, spleen, and thymus.).
Fleas become infected by feeding on rodents, such as chipmunks, prairie dogs, ground squirrels, mice, and other mammals that are infected with the bacterium Yersinia pestis. Fleas transmit the plague bacteria to humans and other mammals during a subsequent feeding. 
Pneumonic plague, a severe type of lung infection, is one of three main forms of plague, all of which are caused by the bacterium Yersinia pestis. It is more virulent and rarer than bubonic plague. Pneumonic plague can be caused in two ways: primary, which results from the inhalation of aerosolised plague bacteria, or secondary, when septicaemic plague spreads into lung tissue from the bloodstream.
The plague is a serious bacterial infection that can be deadly. Sometimes referred to as the black plague, the disease is caused by bacteria called Yersinia pestis. This bacteria is found on animals throughout the world and is usually transmitted to humans through fleas.
Typically, the pneumonic form is due to a spread from infection of an initial bubonic form. Primary pneumonic plague results from inhalation of fine infective droplets and can be transmitted from human to human without involvement of fleas or animals. Pneumonic plague can be caused in two ways: primary, which results from the inhalation of aerosolised plague bacteria, or secondary, when septicaemic plague spreads into lung tissue from the bloodstream.
1 Septicemic (blood) Plague is a blood infection with plague bacteria. 2  It can result from fleabites, touching plague-infected materials with broken skin, or spread of infection from the lung or bubo. 3  Once plague bacteria are in the bloodstream, severe illness and death can follow quickly. 1 Bubonic Plague is the most common naturally-occurring form of plague and is caused by the bite of an infected flea. 2  A sore usually forms at the site of the bite. 3  Plague bacteria enter the skin and travel to the nearest lymph node (gland), usually in the groin, underarm, or neck.
Overview. Plague is an infectious disease caused by bacteria called Yersinia pestis. These bacteria are found mainly in rodents, particularly rats, and in the fleas that feed on them. Other animals and humans usually contract the bacteria from rodent or flea bites. Historically, plague destroyed entire civilizations. Usually, you get bubonic plague from the bite of an infected flea or rodent. In rare cases, Y. pestis bacteria, from a piece of contaminated clothing or other material used by a person with plague, enter the body through an opening in the skin.
Pneumonic plague is the most serious form of the disease and is the only form of plague that can be spread from person to person (by infectious droplets). Plague is a serious illness. If you are experiencing symptoms like those listed here, seek immediate medical attention. Symptoms. Plague symptoms depend on how the patient was exposed to the plague bacteria. Plague can take different clinical forms, but the most common are bubonic, pneumonic and septicemic. Forms of plague.