A cat's food is also a huge factor in how much it eats: A cat will eat far more if fed a lower quality food to get the nutrition it needs, and will eat much less if fed a premium quality food that has a high meat content and no grains.
According to Catster, a 6-ounce can of cat food contains approximately 250 calories, while a cup of dry cat food contains about 300 calories, either of which would satisfy a typical 8- to 10-pound cat for a day. Divide your cat's portions into two meals each day or free-feed your cat with his portion of dry kibble.
Although mice, a cat's normal food, are about 70% water, and canned food about 78%, dry food is between 5%-10% water. That's why “canned food does a much better job of keeping your cat well-hydrated,” Pierson tells WebMD. “Think of canned food as hosing down your cat's bladder several times a day.”.
How much food a cat needs depends on the individual's shape, size, appetite and activity level. A small cat will need less food compared to a large cat. In addition to this, t … he quality of food greatly contributes to how much food a cat needs.
How Often To Feed Your Cat. How often to feed a cat depends on what you’re feeding her. Most cat owners feed their cats morning and night, and may or may not supplement those feedings with free feeding of dry food throughout the day.
Even though you find feeding instructions on almost every bag of cat food you can buy, the instructions are useless. One brand may tell you to feed your cat 1/2 cup twice daily, while another recommends 1/4 cup three times daily. It's not just the manufacturers of cat food that can't tell you how much to feed your cat.
A high quality food made with lots of meat will fill a cat up using a smaller amount per meal. Typically, an average cat needs around 200g of wet food per day, and much less if you feed dry food as dry food usually contains more calories. If your cat is 11 to 15 lbs. the average is 1 to 1 1/2 cups of dry cat food a day. Or you could give your cat a 6 1/2 oz. can.
Typically, dry food contains about 300 calories per cup, and canned food contains about 250 calories in each 6 oz can. (or, 125 per 3-ounce can). Using these counts as a guide, an 8-pound cat would need 4/5 of a cup of dry food or just less than a full 6-oz can (or two 3-ounce cans) of wet food per day.