NARCISSUS (Narkissos), a son of Cephissus and the nymph Liriope of Thespiae. He was a very handsome youth, but wholly inaccessible to the feeling of love. The nymph Echo, who loved him, but in vain, died away with grief. One of his rejected lovers, however, prayed to Nemesis to punish him for his unfeeling heart.
Narcissus is another example among several of a beautiful young man who spurned sex and died as a result. As such, his myth has much in common with those of Adonis and Hippolytus. In the Roman poet Ovid's retelling of the myth, Narcissus is the son of the river god Cephissus and the nymph Liriope.
Narcissus, also known as Narkissos (Greek: νάρκισσος), was the son of the river-god Cephissus and a hunter from Greek mythology known for his great beauty. He fell in love with his reflection, not realizing what it was. The word narcissist is derived from his name.
Narcissus -- in Greek mythology, the son of the river god Cephissus and the nymph Leiriope; he was distinguished for his beauty. His mother was told that he would have a long life, provided he never looked upon his own features.
Narcissus by Caravaggio depicts Narcissus gazing at his own reflection. In Greek mythology, Narcissus (/nɑrˈsɪsəs/ ; Greek: νάρκισσος, Narkissos) was a hunter from Thespiae in Boeotia who was known for his beauty. He was the son of the river god Cephissus and nymph Liriope.
Definition of NARCISSUS. 1. capitalized: a beautiful youth in Greek mythology who pines away for love of his own reflection and is then turned into the narcissus flower.
The myth of Narcissus is one of the most known Greek Myths, due to its uniqueness and moral tale; Narcissus, was the son of River God Cephisus and nymph Lyriope. He was known for his beauty and he was loved by God Apollo due to his extraordinary physique.
The graceful narcissus flower takes its name from a Greek myth. Narcissus was a beautiful youth who refused the love of a nymph named Echo. In punishment the goddess Aphrodite condemned him to fall in love with his own image. Forced to gaze constantly at his reflection in a clear pool, he pined away and died.
Narcissus. Narcissus (naersĭsˈəs) [ närsĭsˈəs ], key In greek, mythology beautiful youth who refused all offers of, love including that Of. Echo as punishment for his indifference he was made to fall in love with his own image in a mountain. Pool unable to possess the, image he pined away and was turned into a. flower