Accounts Receivable is classified as an Asset. Assets have a normal Debit balance. If you mean to say that the customer has paid off some of the amount in their account, then … the amount is listed on the Credit side and in the Debit side of the Cash account. Commission in a trial balance can be debit or even credit. It depends on a situation. If commission is given in the debit side of a trial balance then it is debit and if it … is given in credit side then it is credit.
Commissions as Accounts Receivable. When we set up the business in QB, we chose Insurance Agent/Broker as the type. The only thing I see different in this set-up is an account in chart of accounts for commissions. 
Commission Receivable Account. Credit:- Commission Received Account. The commission received will be shown in income side of profit and loss account since it is a revenue income. Note:- Commission receivable account will be shown in assets side of balance sheet. RELATED TERMS: 1  Learn Accounting, Free Accounting Tips. 2  General Accounting Terms
Commission Expense Accounting. A commission is a fee that a business pays to a salesperson in exchange for his or her services in either facilitating, supervising, or completing a sale. The commission may be based on a flat fee arrangement, or (more commonly) as a percentage of the revenue generated
Thus, the commission payment for March is due on April 15. The company’s accountant would consider the $2,000 commission fee for March as an accrued receivable for the accounting period of March 1 to March 31. Examples. A company designs a print advertisement for a customer and sends an invoice indicating the customer owes $600 for the services provided. The outstanding amount due, $600, is an accounts receivable. The same company earns a $2,000 commission selling advertising space for a client in the month of March.
An accountant records each accounts receivable as a debit, or decrease, on a company’s balance sheet. The accountant also makes an adjustment to the total accounts receivable by adding all accrued receivables as a debit. Examples. A company designs a print advertisement for a customer and sends an invoice indicating the customer owes $600 for the services provided. The outstanding amount due, $600, is an accounts receivable. The same company earns a $2,000 commission selling advertising space for a client in the month of March.
An accountant enters all accounts receivables invoiced during an accounting period as a credit, or increase, on the company’s income statement. The accountant also adds all accrued receivables during the accounting period into the income statement as a credit for that period. Examples. A company designs a print advertisement for a customer and sends an invoice indicating the customer owes $600 for the services provided. The outstanding amount due, $600, is an accounts receivable. The same company earns a $2,000 commission selling advertising space for a client in the month of March.
Commission. Definition: A commission is a fee paid to a salesperson in exchange for services in facilitating or completing a sale transaction. The commission may be structured as a flat fee, or as a percentage of the revenue, gross margin, or profit generated by the sale. Commissions may also be charged by brokers to assist in the sale of securities, properties, and so forth. Copyright 2015, All Rights Reserved. 
Accounts receivables and accrued receivables are different types of customer debts that an accountant enters onto a company's income statement or balance sheet. An accountant records all receivables as assets when documenting a company’s revenues during a specific accounting period, such as a month, quarter or year. Examples. A company designs a print advertisement for a customer and sends an invoice indicating the customer owes $600 for the services provided. The outstanding amount due, $600, is an accounts receivable. The same company earns a $2,000 commission selling advertising space for a client in the month of March.
Commission receivable is an income. Income due is an asset and is shown as a debit balance of $250. Amount received ($1 850) is credited to the Commission Receivable account. The amount earned ($1 975) is entered on the debit side and credited to income statement. Example 2. A business sublets part of its building at an annual rent of $1 800. Part 3 - Ledger accounts for accruals and prepayment of Incomes. Example 1. On 1 January, commission receivable was outstanding by $250. During the year, $1 850 was received by cheque for commission. Actual commission earned for the year amounted to $1 975. Show