White blood cells. White blood cells can: 1  engulf pathogens and destroy them. 2  produce antibodies [antibodies: Proteins produced by the body's immune system that attack foreign organisms (antigens) that get into the body. ] 3  to destroy pathogens. 4  produce antitoxins that neutralise the toxins released by pathogens. 
• Antigen: a chemical that causes the immune system to produce specific antibodies. • Antibody: a specific protein produced by the immune system on detection of an antigen. Induced Immunity: This is protection gained by the production of specific antibodies after the antigens on the pathogen have been detected. 
Antibodies. An antibody is a protein produced by lymphocytes in the presence of a specific, usually foreign, antigen. As seen from the diagram above, antibodies are Y-shaped and are made up from polypeptide chains. 
Each antibody binds to a specific antigen; an interaction similar to a lock and key. An antibody (Ab), also known as an immunoglobulin (Ig), is a large, Y-shape protein produced by plasma cells that is used by the immune system to identify and neutralize pathogens such as bacteria and viruses. The antibody recognizes a unique molecule of the harmful agent, called an antigen, via the variable region. The ability of an antibody to communicate with the other components of the immune system is mediated via its Fc region (located at the base of the Y), which contains a conserved glycosylation site involved in these interactions.
Antibody production. Antibodies are produced by lymphocytes, which are formed in lymph nodes. Lymphocytes produced antibodies in response to the presence of pathogens such as bacteria. This is because alien cells have chemicals called antigen on their surface. A different antibody is produced for each antigen. The antibodies make bacteria clump together in preparation for action by phagocytes, or neutralise toxins produced by the bacteria.
Antibody: An immunoglobulin, a specialized immune protein, produced because of the introduction of an antigen into the body, and which possesses the remarkable ability to combine with the very antigen that triggered its production. The production of antibodies is a major function of the immune system and is carried out by a type of white blood cell called a B cell (B lymphocyte). Antibodies can be triggered by and directed at foreign proteins, microorganisms, or toxins. Some antibodies are autoantibodies and home in against our own tissues.
This region is known as the hypervariable region. Each of these variants can bind to a different antigen. This enormous diversity of antibody paratopes on the antigen-binding fragments allows the immune system to recognize an equally wide variety of antigens. The ability of an antibody to communicate with the other components of the immune system is mediated via its Fc region (located at the base of the Y), which contains a conserved glycosylation site involved in these interactions.
Definition of ANTIBODY for Kids. : a substance produced by special cells of the body that counteracts the effects of a disease germ or its poisons. 
A protein produced in the blood or tissues in response to the presence of a specific foreign antigen. Antibodies provide immunity against certain microorganisms and toxins by binding with them and often by deactivating them. antibody. When bacteria enter a flesh wound, a B cell releases antibodies, which attach to the bacteria and direct them toward a macrophage for destruction.