The closest major airport is Montgomery Regional Airport. This airport is about 42 miles from the center of Tuskegee, AL.
Closest Airport to Tuskegee, AL. The closest airport is Montgomery Regional (Dannelly Field) Airport (MGM). Distance from Montgomery Regional (Dannelly Field) Airport to Tuskegee is 67,5 kilometers (41,9 miles). Montgomery Regional (Dannelly Field) Airport is located approximately 11,5 kilometers (7,2 miles) southwest of Montgomery and about 19,2 kilometers (11,9 miles) south of Prattville.
The airport offers no commercial service in or out of Auburn. The closest airport of significance outside of Auburn is the Columbus Airport (40 miles via US-280) in Columbus, Georgia which is roughly a one-hour drive to and from Auburn. The FBO at the Auburn University Regional Airport is staffed from 7:00 AM to 7:00 PM Central Time (-5, -6 z) weekdays, 8:00 AM to 5:00 PM weekends. Fuel services are available during this time, as are use of the FBO and airport facilities.
Driving Directions: Tuskegee University is located in Macon County, Tuskegee, Alabama, about 40 miles east of Montgomery (the state capital), about 20 miles southwest of Auburn, about 135 miles southeast of Birmingham, about 125 miles west of Atlanta, and about 205 miles northeast of Mobile, AL. The following shuttle, bus and limousine services (not affiliated with Tuskegee University) are available: Aright Ride Transportation (334-209-4848). shuttle services Website: www.arightride.com.
The nearest major airport is Montgomery Regional Airport (MGM / KMGM). This airport has domestic flights from Montgomery, Alabama and is 50 miles from the center of Tuskegee, AL. Another major airport is Columbus Metropolitan Airport (CSG / KCSG), which has domestic flights from Columbus, Georgia and is 59 miles from Tuskegee, AL. Search for direct flights from your hometown and find hotels near Tuskegee, AL, or scroll down for more international airports or domestic airports. If you're booking an international flight, you probably want the closest major airport, otherwise if you're a pilot you may be looking for a local airport. Use this tool along with the flight distance pages to plan your travel.
Major airports near Tuskegee University: The nearest major airport is Montgomery Regional Airport (MGM / KMGM). This airport has domestic flights from Montgomery, Alabama and is 51 miles from the center of Tuskegee University. Another major airport is Columbus Metropolitan Airport (CSG / KCSG), which has domestic flights from Columbus, Georgia and is 58 miles from Tuskegee University. Search for direct flights from your hometown and find hotels near Tuskegee University, or scroll down for more international airports or domestic airports
Hotels near Tuskegee University. Find hotels near Tuskegee University in Tuskegee AL on Hotels-Rates.com. Many of these Tuskegee hotels are within a short distance of Tuskegee University. 1-25 of 75 Hotels within 37.7 miles of Tuskegee University. Hotels closest to Tuskegee University are listed first. Stay Lodge-Auburn. Located 15.9 miles from Tuskegee University. More Hotel Information and Book Reservations. Map the Distance Between Stay Lodge-Auburn and Tuskegee University. Starting Rate: $54 Priced recently for Oct 21 - Oct 23, 2015.
Tuskegee University is located in downtown Tuskegee, Alabama. The closest hotel to campus is the Kellogg Hotel & Conference Center Tuskegee. 
The city of Tuskegee is located in southeastern Alabama. It is 20 miles southwest of Auburn and 45 miles west of Columbus, Georgia. It is the home of Tuskegee University. 
Limousine, shuttle, and bus service is available to the Tuskegee University campus from: 1  Montgomery's Regional Airport (formerly Dannelly Field). 2  Birmingham's Shuttlesworth International Airport. 3  Atlanta's Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport. The following shuttle, bus and limousine services (not affiliated with Tuskegee University) are available: Aright Ride Transportation (334-209-4848). shuttle services Website: www.arightride.com.