Paralegal Billable Hours. Depending on their firms' preferences, paralegals can be asked to bill as many as 2,000 hours per year. The rest of their time is spent on administrative work, nonpaying pro bono or legal aid work, and other law firm maintenance tasks. A paralegal usually works 7.5 to 8 hours each business day or 37.5 to 40 hours per week, unless there is a major event, such as a trial or a client emergency. Then a paralegal may work 60 to 80 hours a week for months at a time.
Law firms generally tell their paralegals how many hours they are expected to produce and the consequences of not being able to meet that number. Depending on the firm, a paralegal may be expected to generate between 800 and 2,000 billable hours per year. For paralegals close to the 1,800/2,000 billable hours per year threshold, and allowing for vacation time and holidays, this equates to at least 37 billable hours per work week. Thus, assuming that a paralegal works 40 hours a week, only 2.5 hours per week are left for non-billable activities like interoffice meetings, performance reviews, coffee breaks, organization of work, training, informal exchanges with others in the office, and everything else that needs to be done!
To figure out billable hours, let's consider how many total hours you work in a week. If you consider that there are 40 hours in a typical work week, and there are 50 working weeks a year, then you work a total of 2,000 hours a year. If you work 10 hours a day, that s 50 hours a week, and 2,500 hours a year. But how many of those working hours are billable? That s the question, and you ll have to do some figuring on your own to answer it. The hours would be only the time you spend working on the inspection itself. Assume each job takes five hours, including driving time, inspecting time, and report-writing time. And you expect to do one job per day. That s five hours per day of billable hours, 25 hours per week, and 1,250 billable hours per year. Now that you've figured out your billable hours per job and per year, let's work on your flat rate, or your average fee for one inspection of a typical home in your marke
So the hourly rate needs to reflect only 1/2 day of billable hours. Quote: Originally Posted by Mr Rewire. A service van should bill at 1000 hours per year this id based on 4 billable hours a day at 50 weeks asuming two weeks for vacation and holidays. __________________. I need more tools.
The upside to this is, you can bill 16 hours in a day. The trial can go on for a long time, and you will have the billable hours of a superstar. Last trial, I was able to average about 12.5 hours a day for about 6 weeks. A few weeks, came out with over 90 billable hours. In a matter of 6 weeks, I had about 525 billable hours under my belt. This allowed me to take a few vacations and still be on pace to hit my quota. There are periods where you are grinding it out, and you will have awesome time/service report
This work hours calculator will help you to be able to calculate how many hours you have worked over the course of a week and how much you should be paid. To use this calculator simply enter in your hourly rate then fill out the time sheet as per the example above Monday. 
For associates, the goal is simple: meet the required (or expected) minimum number of billable hours to qualify for annual bonuses and salary increases. Billing 2,000 hours a year isn’t easy. It typically takes at least 50 hours a week to bill an honest 40 hours to a client. 
1 Although billable hour requirements ranged from 1,400 to 2,400 hours per year in 2004, most offices reporting a minimum require either 1,800 or 1,900 hours (24% and 21% of offices, respectively). 2  Contrary to their reputation, New York City firms do not necessarily set the highest minimums. 1 In contrast, 60% of offices in Hartford and Nashville set their billable hours requirement at 1,800 hours per year; as did about 40% in a number of other cities, including Wilmington, Portland, OR, Baltimore, Denver, and Seattle.