In addition to beautiful rich reds, Spinel can be found in shades of orange and beautiful pastel pink, as well as purple. Of particular interest is a vivid, hot pink with a tinge of orange that is mined in Burma, which is one of the most spectacular gemstone colors and unlike any other gem.
The wealth of stones includes aquamarine, morganite, blue topaz, yellow to imperial topaz, amethyst, citrine, green quartz, smoky quartz, rose quartz, various colors of tourmaline, rhodonite, iolite, and others. The Brazilian consumer often goes for the color rather than the higher-priced gemstones.
Another contributing factor is the wealth of gemstones available there. Brazil is one of the most significant producers of a variety of colored gemstones, which are often incorporated into these jewelry designs. The liberal use of gemstone color creates a bold look.
If you love magic, especially the magic of science, you’ll love Alexandrite, the color-change gem. Outside in daylight, it is a cool bluish mossy green. Inside in lamplight, it is a red gem with a warm raspberry tone. You can watch it flick back and forth by switching from fluorescent to incandescent light.
Since there are hundreds of color variations in colored gems, we have organized this list around base colors or color families. A red-orange gem would fall in the orange category and a blue-green stone would be in the green category.
One of today’s most popular blue gemstones, Tanzanite comes in a variety of shapes, sizes and striking assortments of blue tones. Rarely pure blue, Tanzanite almost always displays its signature overtones of purple. In smaller sizes, Tanzanite usually contains lighter tones and the lavender color is more common.
The color of the ocean, glittering aquamarine is one of the most beautiful gemstones you can buy. There are many traditional beliefs connected to this gem. Aquamarine has been said to help with digestive, eye, and teeth problems.
Aquamarine. The color of the ocean, glittering aquamarine is one of the most beautiful gemstones you can buy. There are many traditional beliefs connected to this gem. Aquamarine has been said to help with digestive, eye, and teeth problems. In the past, sailors often used aquamarines to bring them luck at sea.