The most common association of the pollen-food syndrome is with birch tree. The fruits and vegetables most commonly related to birch tree are apples, peaches, prunes, pears, cherries, apricots, carrots, celery, almonds, hazelnuts and peanuts. (see also the website Canadian Food Inspection Agency for a list). The pollen-food syndrome (or oral allergy syndrome) is an allergic reaction to fresh fruits, vegetables and/or nuts that can happen in people that are allergic to pollen. Most symptoms occur in or around the buccal cavity, which is why the syndrome is called as such. This entity can also occur in children
Oral allergy syndrome or OAS is a type of food allergy classified by a cluster of allergic reactions in the mouth in response to eating certain (usually fresh) fruits, nuts, and vegetables that typically develops in adults with hay fever. OAS is perhaps the most common food-related allergy in adults. Another term used for this syndrome is pollen-food allergy. In adults up to 60% of all food allergic reactions are due to cross-reactions between foods and inhalative allergens. OAS is a Type 1 or IgE-mediated immune response, which is sometimes called a  true allergy .
Some individuals with pollen allergies (allergic rhinitis or hay fever) can develop symptoms around and in the mouth and throat immediately after eating raw fresh fruits, vegetables, nuts or seeds that contain proteins cross-reactive to the pollens. This is known as oral allergy syndrome or pollen-food syndrome. For example, people with birch pollen allergy may experience symptoms after eating raw apples, peaches, pitted fruits, carrot, peanut and hazelnut among others. Likewise, ragweed allergic individuals experience symptoms with melons among other foods. This is an IgE-mediated food allergy. When exposure to the food occurs, symptoms start quickly. Symptoms include any or several of the following: skin itching, hives, swelling of the skin, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, breathing difficulty (wheezing, repeated throat clearing, cough, throat tightness), or anaphylaxis.
The most common food allergy signs and symptoms include: 1  Tingling or itching in the mouth. 2  Hives, itching or eczema. 3  Swelling of the lips, face, tongue and throat or other parts of the body. 4  Wheezing, nasal congestion or trouble breathing. 5  Abdominal pain, diarrhea, nausea or vomiting. 6  Dizziness, lightheadedness or fainting. Anaphylaxis. In some people, a food allergy can trigger a severe allergic reaction called anaphylaxis. This can cause life-threatening signs and symptoms, including: 1  Constriction and tightening of airways. 2  A swollen throat or the sensation of a lump in your throat that makes it difficult to breathe.
In many people who have hay fever, fresh fruits and vegetables and certain nuts and spices can trigger an allergic reaction that causes the mouth to tingle or itch. In some people, pollen-food allergy syndrome — sometimes called oral allergy syndrome — can cause swelling of the throat or even anaphylaxis. Anaphylaxis. In some people, a food allergy can trigger a severe allergic reaction called anaphylaxis. This can cause life-threatening signs and symptoms, including: 1  Constriction and tightening of airways. 2  A swollen throat or the sensation of a lump in your throat that makes it difficult to breathe.
Pollen food allergy syndrome: Introduction. Pollen food allergy syndrome: A significant number of people with an allergy to pollen also have allergic responses to certain plant foods (usually fruit) which have similar proteins to that found in pollens. 
Oral allergy syndrome (OAS), which is also called pollen-food allergy syndrome, is a type of food allergy caused by uncooked fruits, raw vegetables, spices, and nuts. 
Overview. Oral allergy syndrome, also known as pollen-food syndrome,is caused by cross-reacting allergens found in both pollen and raw fruits, vegetables, or some tree nuts. The immune system recognizes the pollen and similar proteins in the food and directs an allergic response to it. 
Oral allergy syndrome (OAS) or pollen-food allergy syndrome (PFS) is a hypersensitivity reaction to plant-based foods, manifesting most commonly with pruritus of the lips, tongue, and mouth. 