Full Definition of DRYWALL. : a board made of several plies of fiberboard, paper, or felt bonded to a hardened gypsum plaster core and used especially as wallboard. See drywall defined for English-language learners. See drywall defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. drywall. noun dry·wall \ˈdrī-ˌwȯl\. Tweet. : building material that is used for making walls and ceilings and that is made of large sheets of plaster covered with thick paper.
Drywall (also known as plasterboard, wallboard, gypsum board) is a panel made of gypsum plaster pressed between two thick sheets of paper. It is used to make interior walls and ceilings. Drywall construction became prevalent as a speedier alternative to traditional lath and plaster. Drywall panels in the United States are manufactured in 48-inch (1.2 m), 54-inch (1.4 m) and 96-inch (2.4 m) wide panels in varying lengths to suit the application. Common panel thicknesses are 1⁄2 -inch (13 mm) and 5⁄8 -inch (16 mm), with panels also available in 1⁄4 -inch (6.4 mm) and 3⁄8 -inch (9.5 mm).
Drywall, also known as gypsum board or plasterboard, is a flat, white board used to create the inside walls of homes. Interesting textures can be applied to drywall. When used to create walls, drywall panels are hung from wall studs with screws and then taped and plastered over with joint compound where the panels meet. Drywall is easier to install and less messy than plaster. Drywall, also known as gypsum board or plasterboard, is a flat, white board used to create the inside walls of homes. Drywall is available in many sizes. View slideshow of images above
Gypsum crystals in the Cave of the Crystals in Mexico. Note person for scale. Gypsum is a soft sulfate mineral composed of calcium sulfate dihydrate, with the chemical formula CaSO 4 ·2H 2 O. It can be used as a fertilizer, is the main constituent in many forms of plaster and in blackboard chalk, and is widely mined. 
Drywall is a construction product commonly used to finish building interiors. For hundreds of years prior to its development, the interior walls of buildings were usually made of plaster. Interesting textures can be applied to drywall. When used to create walls, drywall panels are hung from wall studs with screws and then taped and plastered over with joint compound where the panels meet. Drywall is easier to install and less messy than plaster. Drywall, also known as gypsum board or plasterboard, is a flat, white board used to create the inside walls of homes. Drywall is available in many sizes. View slideshow of images above
Drywall is a plaster-like substance sealed between two sheets of heavy duty paper and attaches to the walls or ceiling using special drywall screws or nails. The long edges of each sheet of drywall are tapered, allowing you to finish the seam between the boards, making your walls nice and smooth. 
When you are ready to install the drywall you will need to use screws or nails to attach it to the studs of the room and then fill the seams between the pieces of drywall with joint compound. In comparison to traditional methods such as plaster, drywall is far easier to install and to perform drywall repair. The Differences. As previously mentioned, there are limited differences between drywall and Sheetrock. Sheetrock is simply a company that provides customers with the opportunity to purchase drywall and drywall products but their products are the same as generic “dry wall”.
Drywall is one of the most commonly known materials used in the construction of homes to produce flat walls and other important surfaces. One sheet of drywall includes gypsum, which is essentially a type of rock that was turned into a powder and put in between two pieces of incredibly thick paper. The Differences. As previously mentioned, there are limited differences between drywall and Sheetrock. Sheetrock is simply a company that provides customers with the opportunity to purchase drywall and drywall products but their products are the same as generic “dry wall”.