A marriage certificate is the legal document that proves you are married. Generally, you can obtain a copy from the clerk's office in the county where your marriage took place or from the office of the recorder or registrar in some states. Submit an application, proof of your identity and pay the required fee. For example, in Wisconsin, you can receive a copy of your certificate within two hours if you submit your request in person by 2 p.m. In Boston, you also can receive a copy the same day you request it. When it comes to mailing in your request, the wait time is a bit longer.
You qualify for a marriage license in Chicago if you are single, and at least 18 years of age. You cannot be close blood relatives unless you are over 50 years of age. You will be asked to present an accepted form of I.D. at the Cook County Clerk’s office. When you apply for your marriage license at the Cook County Clerk’s office, you need to present valid government-issued photo I.D. such as a driver’s license or a passport. You can find a list of other accepted forms of I.D. at Chicago Marriage License.
You can request a copy of your marriage certificate in person at the clerk or registrar's office or by mail. In-person requests typically are the fastest means. For example, in Wisconsin, you can receive a copy of your certificate within two hours if you submit your request in person by 2 p.m. In Boston, you also can receive a copy the same day you request it. When it comes to mailing in your request, the wait time is a bit longer.
Due to a lawsuit filed by Lambda Legal and the ACLU of Illinois, you can apply for a marriage license beginning February 21, 2014. Your marriage license becomes effective the day after you receive your license, and expires 60 days later. The new marriage law still goes into effect on June 1, 2014. The marriage license is valid for 60 days, and is valid only in the county in which it was issued, which means that your marriage ceremony must take place within that county. There is a one-day waiting period before the license becomes effective.
Both parties must appear in person to fill out an application for a license to get married. Applications are available through any county clerk’s office. The cost of applying for a marriage license varies by county, and is usually in the range of $15 to $40. Bring with you a form of identification, such as a birth certificate, driver’s license, or passport. The marriage license is valid for 60 days, and is valid only in the county in which it was issued, which means that your marriage ceremony must take place within that county. There is a one-day waiting period before the license becomes effective.
Illinois Marriage License Requirements. If you're getting married in the state of Illinois you must first apply for a wedding license at any in-state county clerk office. These offices, some of which are referred to as the marriage license bureau, are usually located in the county probate court or circuit court. The marriage license fee is $15.00 to $30.00, cash only. Accepted forms of payment are cash. There are none. You do not have to be a previous or current resident of Illinois to obtain a marriage license that will be valid statewide.
When you apply for a marriage license in Cook County, you will be required to pay a marriage license fee of $60.00. When you apply for your marriage license at the Cook County Clerk’s office, you need to present valid government-issued photo I.D. such as a driver’s license or a passport. You can find a list of other accepted forms of I.D. at Chicago Marriage License.
In Cook County, you can request certified copies of your marriage certificate online, by phone, by mail, in person, or at a local Currency Exchange. The first certified copy of the marriage certificate costs $15.00 and each additional copy of the same record costs $4.00. You can find more information about how to apply for a marriage certificate online at Chicago Marriage License. When you apply for your marriage license at the Cook County Clerk’s office, you need to present valid government-issued photo I.D. such as a driver’s license or a passport. You can find a list of other accepted forms of I.D.
Marriage Certificate Expedited. A certified copy of the Certificate of Marriage. This is not a copy of the marriage license. Marriage records are available for events that occurred in Cook County within the last 75 years. First Copy: $15.00 Additional Copies: $4.00
Submit. · just now. Report Abuse. Depends on the state... After you have signed the certificate, had the ceremony if any, the magistrate/judge/minister turns it in to the courthouse where the marriage license was obtained and then you can request a copy...most of the time, about two weeks... KitKat · 7 years ago. Thumbs up. 