Cholecystitis (Greek, - cholecyst, gallbladder, combined with the suffix-itis, inflammation) is inflammation of the gallbladder. Cholecystitis occurs when the gallbladder becomes inflamed. Gallbladder inflammation is most commonly caused by gallstones but can also occur due to blockage from a tumor or scarring of the bile duct. The greatest risk factor for cholecystitis is gallstones.
Cholecystitis is the medical name for inflammation of the gallbladder. The gallbladder assists in the digestive process by storing and releasing the substance called bile into the small intestine, which helps break down food. Cholecystitis is most often the result of an obstruction within a duct in the gallbladder. Left untreated, the inflammation may lead to infection. Other less common causes of cholecystitis include infection, injury and tumors. Inflammation of the gallbladder is a common disease in the United States. The disease is more common in women than in men, and it occurs most frequently after the age of 40.
The most common symptom of cholecystitis is pain in your upper right abdomen that can sometimes move around to your back or right shoulder blade. Other symptoms include: 1  Nausea or vomiting. 2  Tenderness in the right abdomen. 3  Fever. 4  Pain that gets worse during a deep breath. A gallstone stuck in the cystic duct, a tube that carries bile from the gallbladder, is most often the cause of sudden (acute) cholecystitis. The gallstone blocks fluid from passing out of the gallbladder. This results in an irritated and swollen
Introduction. Acute cholecystitis is swelling (inflammation) of the gallbladder. It is a potentially serious condition that usually needs to be treated in hospital. The main symptom of acute cholecystitis is a sudden sharp pain in the upper right side of your tummy (abdomen) that spreads towards your right shoulder. 
Cholecystitis or acute cholecystitis is the sudden inflammation of your gallbladder. If this condition persists for a prolonged period of time, such as months, or if you have repeated attacks, it’s known as chronic cholecystitis. The gallbladder is a small, pear-shaped organ located on the underside your liver. 
Knowledge center. Cholecystitis is inflammation of the gallbladder. The gallbladder is a small, pear-shaped organ connected to the liver, on the right side of the abdomen, which stores bile and releases it into the small intestine to help in the digestion of fat. 1 Injury-trauma to the abdomen, or surgery, can result in cholecystitis. 2  Infection-if the infection is located within the bile, the gallbladder can become inflamed. 3  Tumor-a tumor may stop the bile from draining out of the gallbladder properly, resulting in an accumulation of bile, which can lead to
Figure 1. Normal anatomy. Cholecystitis is the inflammation (or swelling) of the gallbladder. The gallbladder is located towards the upper right abdominal. It stores bile, which is responsible for breaking down the body’s fats. Cholecystitis is caused by gallstones blocking the entrance of the gallbladder
Gallbladder and bile duct. Cholecystitis (ko-luh-sis-TIE-tis) is inflammation of the gallbladder. Your gallbladder is a small, pear-shaped organ on the right side of your abdomen, beneath your liver. The gallbladder holds a digestive fluid that's released into your small intestine (bile). This results in a bile buildup that can cause inflammation. Other causes of cholecystitis include bile duct problems and tumors. If left untreated, cholecystitis can lead to serious, sometimes life-threatening complications, such as a gallbladder rupture.
Acute cholecystitis is also known as inflammation of the gallbladder. The gallbladder is an organ that sits below the liver, and helps your body digest fat. 
1 Cholecystitis: Inflammation of the gallbladder which concentrates and stores bile. 2  The condition may occur suddenly (acute) or persist over a longer period of time (chronic). 