The hydrophilic phosphate heads like water, so they touch the inside and the outside of the cell where the environments are aqueous. The fatty acid tails form a hydrophobic region in the middle, which is free of water. This cell membrane helps in structuring the cell and also controls which substances can cross it. 
Figure 1: The lipid bilayer and the structure and composition of a glycerophospholipid molecule. (A) The plasma membrane of a cell is a bilayer of glycerophospholipid molecules. (B) A single glycerophospholipid molecule is composed of two major regions: a hydrophilic head (green) and hydrophobic tails (purple). (C) The subregions of a glycerophospholipid molecule; phosphatidylcholine is shown as an example. In water, these molecules spontaneously align — with their heads facing outward and their tails lining up in the bilayer's interior. Thus, the hydrophilic heads of the glycerophospholipids in a cell's plasma membrane face both the water-based cytoplasm and the exterior of the cell.
Surrounding each of our cells is a membrane called the plasma membrane. The plasma membrane is a continuous double-layer of phospholipids, interweaved with cholesterol and proteins. Phospholipids are composed of two fatty acids attached to a phosphate compound as a head. Since outside the cell is a water-containing, or aqueous, environment, and inside the cell is also aqueous, the phosphate heads of the phospholipids face both the cell's inside and the environment outside the cell, while the fatty acids face the inside of the membrane.
Phospholipids are a class of lipids that are a major component of all cell membranes. They can form lipid bilayers because of their amphiphilic characteristic. The structure of the phospholipid molecule generally consists of two hydrophobic fatty acid tails and a hydrophilic head consisting of a phosphate group. The two components are joined together by a glycerol molecule. The phosphate groups can be modified with simple organic molecules such as choline
The phospholipids of a cell membrane are arranged in a double layer called the lipid bilayer. The hydrophilic phosphate heads are always arranged so that they are near water. Watery fluids are found both inside a cell (intracellular fluid) and outside a cell (extracellular fluid). Phospholipids make up the basic structure of a cell membrane. A single phospholipid molecule has two different ends: a head and a tail. The head end contains a phosphate group and is hydrophilic. This means that it likes or is attracted to water molecules
They have a hydrophilic phosphate head and two hydrophobic hydrocarbon tails. Cell membranes are made up of a double layer of these phospholipid molecules. This is because in water the hydrophilic heads will face the water while the hydrophobic tails will be in the center because they face away from the water. The phospholipid bilayer makes the membrane very stable but also allows flexibility. Phospholipid molecules make up the cell membrane and are hydrophilic (attracted to water) as well as hydrophobic (not attracted to water but are attracted to other hydrophobic tails).
1. Cell membranes are based on lipid bilayer. Plasma membranes consist of a lipid bilayer with proteins embedded in the bilayer. The principle lipids are phospholipids. A phospholipid molecules has a hydrophilic head with a phosphate group as part of its structure and two hydrophobic tails. The Actual Cell membrane has proteins embedded in the lipid bilayer. Embedded in the phospholipid bi-layer are a diverse set of proteins which do most of the important functions of the cell membrane. This idea is called the fluid mosaic model