gunk. n. 1. slimy, oily, or filthy matter. [C20: perhaps of imitative origin]. (gʌŋk). 
The faucet in my bathroom gets black gunk around it. I called a plumber and he said it’s because I need a new faucet. I said, “OK, please install a new faucet,” but that did not solve the problem. The black gunk continues to appear. I think it’s from toothpaste. I have two bathrooms, but this one bathroom faucet is the only one that continues to have this problem.
1 Gunge, an unspecific greasy, filthy substance. 2  Gunk (mereology) , the term in mereology for any whole whose parts all have further proper parts. 3  Gunk, a character in the comic strip Curtis (comic strip). 1 Gunk (mereology) , the term in mereology for any whole whose parts all have further proper parts. 2  Gunk, a character in the comic strip Curtis (comic strip). 3  Gunk, a line of automotive maintenance products produced by the Radiator Specialty Company.
Gunk may refer to: 1  Gunge, an unspecific greasy, filthy substance. 2  Gunk (mereology) , the term in mereology for any whole whose parts all have further proper parts. 1 Gunk (mereology) , the term in mereology for any whole whose parts all have further proper parts. 2  Gunk, a character in the comic strip Curtis (comic strip). 3  Gunk, a line of automotive maintenance products produced by the Radiator Specialty Company.
An unpleasantly sticky or messy substance: factories spewing out unspeakable gunk. More example sentences. 1  After that, you just mix the pineapple gunk with the sugar syrup, the milk and lemon juice and put in the fridge. 2  It had a tendency to mix with clay-rich mud to form a gooey, sticky gunk that adhered to everything. 3  Comets are in effect dirty snowballs, water ice coated in organic gunk. 1 After that, you just mix the pineapple gunk with the sugar syrup, the milk and lemon juice and put in the fridge. 2  It had a tendency to mix with clay-rich mud to form a gooey, sticky gunk that adhered to everything. 3  Comets are in effect dirty snowballs, water ice coated in organic gunk.
Full Definition of GUNK. : filthy, sticky, or greasy matter. — gunky \ˈgəŋ-kē\ adjective. See gunk defined for English-language learners. ADVERTISEMENT. 
Do you have a question for the Doctor? Find out new uses for Gunk products and more information on how to use Gunk products for your cleaning and degreasing needs.
Gunk is a thick and messy substance. Synonyms are slime, muck, sludge. It is offensive when you describe someone as gunk. Gunk is all the nasty stuff that collects over the years at the bottom of the gas tank. Generally, it would be any gooey sticky nasty stuff you really don't want to get on you. Gunk is a brand name for an automobile engine degreaser, as well as other car care products. A greasy messy near-solid mass