These nitrogenous bases are adenine (A), uracil (U), guanine (G), thymine (T), and cytosine (C). These nitrogenous bases hydrogen bond between opposing DNA strands to form the rungs of the twisted ladder or double helix of DNA or a biological catalyst that is found in the nucleotides. Adenine is always paired with thymine, and guanine is always paired with cytosine. These are known as base pairs. The main biological function of a nitrogenous base is to bond nucleic acids together. A nitrogenous, or nitrogen-containing, base is an organic molecule with a nitrogen atom that has the chemical properties of a base. A nitrogenous base owes its basic properties to the lone pair of electrons of a nitrogen atom.
DNA has deoxyribose as its sugar. DNA consists of a phosphate group, a sugar, and a nitrogenous base. The structure of DNA is a helical, double-stranded macromolecule with bases projecting into the interior of the molecule. These two strands are always complementary in sequence. 
The phosphate group forms a bond with the deoxyribose sugar through an ester bond between one of its negatively charged oxygen groups and the 5' -OH of the sugar 1  (). A nitrogenous base, which can be either adenine, guanine, cytosine, or thymine (in the case of RNA, thymine is replaced by uracil). Nucleotides. A nucleotide consists of three things: The nitrogen bases are pyrimidine in structure and form a bond between their 1' nitrogen and the 1' -OH group of the deoxyribose. This type of bond is called a glycosidic bond
That is, A (adenine) can only form hydrogen bonds with T (thymine) and C (cytosine) can only form bonds with G (guanine). This means, that if you know the sequence of bases of one strand, you know the sequence of bases of the other strand. The strands is such a molecule are said to be complementary. These strong covalent bonds form the the glue that holds the sugar/phosphate backbone together and thus act to keep each strand together. The two strands of DNA are held together by weak hydrogen bonds (remember, something must hold them together!) between the nitrogenous bases. The interesting (and very important) aspect of the Watson-Crick model is that these hydrogen bonds are base specific
Overview [edit]. A DNA nucleotide is composed of 3 main units: a sugar, a phosphate group, and a nitrogenous base. While the sugar and phosphate group alternate in sequence and form the backbone of the DNA double helix, the nitrogenous bases may differ in every adjoining nucleotide. The four nitrogenous bases present in DNA are adenine (A), guanine (G), cytosine (C) and thymine (T). In RNA, the only differing nitrogenous base is uracil (U) (which replaces thymine in DNA and differs thymine only by the missing methyl group at carbon 5 of the pyrimidine ring). Of the nitrogenous bases, adenine and guanine are purines, which are aromatic compounds attached to an imidazole group, while cytosine and thymine and uracil compose a set of pyrimidines, which are one ring-aromatic compounds.
Each nucleotide consists of a sugar (deoxyribose) bound on one side to a phosphate group and bound on the other side to a nitrogenous base. There are two classes of nitrogen bases called purines (double-ringed structures) and pyrimidines (single-ringed structures). The hydrogen bonds between phosphates cause the DNA strand to twist. The nitrogenous bases point inward on the ladder and form pairs with bases on the other side, like rungs. Each base pair is formed from two complementary nucleotides (purine with pyrimidine) bound together by hydrogen bonds.