The planet Uranus has 27 known moons, most of which we didn't discover until the space age. They range from Titania, 981 miles (1,579 kilometers) in diameter, to tiny Cupid, only 11 miles (18 km) in diameter. 
1 Uranus cannot be seen from the Earth without a telescope. 2  The seventh planet from the Sun, it was not known in ancient times, unlike the planets from Mercury to Saturn. 3  Uranus was first seen by William Herschel in 1781 during a survey of the sky using a telescope. Download Questions about Uranus (all answers found on this page). 1 
Uranus, the seventh planet of the Solar System, has 27 known moons, all of which are named after characters from the works of William Shakespeare and Alexander Pope. Uranus's moons are divided into three groups: thirteen inner moons, five major moons, and nine irregular moons. 
Uranus is the seventh planet from the sun and the first to be discovered by scientists. Although Uranus is visible to the naked eye, it was long mistaken as a star because of the planet’s dimness and slow orbit. The planet is also notable for its dramatic tilt, which causes its axis to point nearly directly at the sun. In addition to moons, Uranus may also have a collection of Trojan asteroids — objects that share the same orbit as the planet — in a special region known as a Lagrangian point. The first was discovered in 2013, despite claims that the planet’s Langrangian point would be too unstable to host such bodies.
Uranus Facts. Uranus is the seventh planet from the Sun. It’s not visible to the naked eye, and became the first planet discovered with the use of a telescope. Uranus is tipped over on its side with an axial tilt of 98 degrees. Uranus was officially discovered by Sir William Herschel in 1781: It is too dim to have been seen by the ancients. At first Herschel thought it was a comet, but several years later it was confirmed as a planet. Herscal tried to have his discovery named “Georgian Sidus” after King George III.
Uranus. by Ron Leadbetter. Uranus, also known as Ouranos, was the embodiment of the sky or heavens, and known as the god of the sky. He was the first son of Gaia (the earth) and he also became her husband. 
The first planet found with the aid of a telescope, Uranus was discovered in 1781 by astronomer William Herschel. The seventh planet from the sun is so distant that it takes 84 years to complete one orbit. 
Though Uranus is visible to the naked eye like the five classical planets, it was never recognized as a planet by ancient observers because of its dimness and slow orbit. Sir William Herschel announced its discovery on March 13, 1781, expanding the known boundaries of the Solar System for the first time in history. Uranus is named after the ancient Greek deity of the sky Uranus (Ancient Greek: οὐρανός), the father of Cronus (Saturn) and grandfather of Zeus (Jupiter), which in Latin became Ūranus. It is the only planet whose name is derived from a figure from Greek mythology. The adjective of Uranus is Uranian.
Uranus is the only planet whose name is derived from a figure from Greek mythology, from the Latinized version of the Greek god of the sky, Ouranos. Like the other giant planets, Uranus has a ring system, a magnetosphere, and numerous moons. Uranus is named after the ancient Greek deity of the sky Uranus (Ancient Greek: οὐρανός), the father of Cronus (Saturn) and grandfather of Zeus (Jupiter), which in Latin became Ūranus. It is the only planet whose name is derived from a figure from Greek mythology. The adjective of Uranus is Uranian.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Uranus is known for it's rings, there a 11 known rings on planet uranus and they are a very famous attraction. 