If you watched Casablanca in a movie theater, use citation format for film. If you are citing a documentary or program that you watched on DVD/videotape, but which was originally broadcast on television, use the citation format for DVD/videotape. If the work being cited is the original format (i.e. if you've viewed the film in a theater), cite the Studio Name OR Production Company followed by production date. original release date (If known). Format (if the version you're citing is video or DVD). Distributor (i.e. DVD or video distributor).
How to cite a film in a bibliography using MLA. The most basic entry for a film consists of the title, director, distributor, year of release, and medium. You may also choose to include the names of the writer(s), performer(s), and the producer(s), as well as the film’s original release date. Film title. Dir. Conclude the citation with the medium on which you viewed the film, which may be videocassette, DVD, laser disc, etc., followed by a period. If you are citing a theater viewing of the film or you are citing the film without reference to a particular copy of it, use the word “Film”.
Film. 3. In-text citation format: (Title) or (Last Name). 4. In-text citation example: (Mean Girls) or (Lohan). For more information, see pages 197-198 in the MLA Handbook, 7th ed. A Video Recording or DVD. Follow the directions for citing a film, and then change the medium of delivery. Mean Girls. Dir
MLA format follows the author-page method of in-text citation. This means that the author's last name and the page number(s) from which the quotation or paraphrase is taken must appear in the text, and a complete reference should appear on your Works Cited page. Basic in-text citation rules. In MLA style, referring to the works of others in your text is done by using what is known as parenthetical citation. This method involves placing relevant source information in parentheses after a quote or a paraphrase.
The following citation style is a slightly adapted version of the MLA style sheet. In citing film and other media, use the citation form for the format. You may include other data that seem pertinent, such as writer of screenplay or writer of work upon which the film is based, depending on the focus of your research. 1  Title of the episode in quotation marks. 2  Name of the series or program in italics. If the work being cited is the original format (i.e. if you've viewed the film in a theater), cite the Studio Name OR Production Company followed by production date. original release date (If known). Format (if the version you're citing is video or DVD). Distributor (i.e. DVD or video distributor).
The Modern Language Association (MLA) provides guidelines for properly citing movies in a paper. Although MLA in-text citation style normally employs an author-page number system, films should be cited differently. It is only necessary to provide the title of the film, either parenthetically or within the text. In addition, you must include full bibliographic information for the film in your works cited list. In this case, you do not need to cite the movie's title parenthetically. For example: One of the most classic lines in all of cinema occurs in Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas when Benicio del Toro says Look what God just did to us, man.. Cite the title of the film parenthetically, if you do not mention it 
List the title of the film in italics, followed by a period. For example: A Midsummer Night's Dream. List the name of the director in the following format: Dir. Barney Smith. If it is relevant to your citation, list the name of performers in the following format: Perf. Brad Pitt, Julia Roberts, Guy Pearce. List the type of source in brackets, followed by a period. When citing a motion picture DVD, the type of source should appear as follows: [Motion Picture]. If the motion picture is widely available, list the country of origin and the name of the distributor.
End the title with a period, which goes inside the quotation marks. 1  If citing a made-for-television movie that was part of a series or broadcast as part of another program, list the name of the series or program in italics, followed by a period. 1 To write the parenthetical citation – i.e. the in-text citation – provide the first element in the works cited entry (usually the movie name). 2  Alternatively, work this information directly into the text, eliminating the need for any parenthetical citation at all.
In-Text Citations. To cite a movie within the text of your paper, put the first item of the Works Cited entry in parentheses at the end of the sentence. Your parenthetical citation may list the title, the director or a performer. Works Cited Entries. According to the seventh edition of the MLA Handbook for Writers of Research Papers, the beginning of your Works Cited entry for a film or movie depends on what is relevant to your analysis. If your paper is about a movie in general, for example, begin the entry with the title of the movie.