Alimony is considered unearned income and a countable source of income when determining SSI eligibility. If you are receiving alimony, the amount of your SSI benefits may be reduced by the amount of your alimony payment. Alimony payments that exceed the income limit will make you ineligible for SSI.
Your ex-wife may receive Social Security Disability Income---SSDI---based on your condition, even if you are paying alimony. As with other Social Security benefits, alimony is considered unearned income and will reduce the overall amount of benefits she receives.
If the amount of alimony your ex-wife receives is more than the SSDI or SSI benefits, she may not be able to collect Social Security payments. If alimony becomes an issue after your wife is already receiving SSI or SSDI benefits, the monthly benefit amount can impact the alimony award.
Alimony won't affect the amount you receive in SSDI benefits, but disability benefits are a factor in determining the amount of alimony you receive. When calculating the alimony, the judge takes all sources of income into consideration.
Some income and some assets are excludable from the countable resources. However, spousal support is considered unearned, countable income under applicable social security rules. Thus, the receipt of spousal support affects one’s eligibility and might reduce the SSI benefit depending on the amount received.
The short answer is that your receipt of spousal support will have no effect on receiving Social Security Disability Insurance (“SSD”) benefits but might affect your ability to receive Supplemental Security Income (“SSI”) depending on the amount.
In conclusion, the receipt of spousal support might affect one’s eligibility and/or the amount received under SSI, but has no bearing on one’s eligibility for SSD. Should you have any questions regarding social security benefits, or if you would like to consult with an attorney, please contact our office.
Having your ex-wife file for Social Security retirement benefits based on your record does not reduce the amount that you are eligible to receive. If you remarry, your ex-wife can file for retirement benefits on your record.
The Social Security Administration---SSA---oversees income programs that supplement eligible recipients. Your ex-wife may be eligible to collect Social Security benefits and alimony, depending on the length of the marriage and her age.