The symptoms of food poisoning occur because food-borne bacteria release toxins or poisons as a byproduct of their growth in the body. These toxins (except those from C. botulinum) cause inflammation and swelling of the stomach, small intestine and/or large intestine. Norwalk virus is another cause of food poisoning, usually associated with gastroenteritis. Symptoms are often mild, consisting of nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and abdominal pain. Headache and low-grade fever may occur. The fecal-oral route via contaminated water or food is the usual method of transmission.
An intoxication results when a person eats food containing toxins that cause illness. Toxins are produced by harmful microorganisms, the result of a chemical contamination, or are naturally part of a plant or seafood. Some bacteria cause an intoxication. Viruses and parasites do not cause foodborne intoxication. A toxin-mediated infection is when a person eats food containing harmful bacteria. While in the intestinal tract, the bacteria produce toxins that cause illness. Some bacteria cause toxin-mediated infection. Viruses and parasites do not cause a
Full Definition of FOOD POISONING. : an acute gastrointestinal disorder caused by bacteria or their toxic products or by chemical residues in food. See food poisoning defined for English-language learners. See food poisoning defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT
Food poisoning is an illness caused by eating or drinking food or water contaminated with viruses, bacteria, toxins, parasites, or chemicals. 
Food poisoning: The illness resulting from eating food or drinking water containing poisonous substances including bacteria, viruses, pesticides, or toxins. Symptoms generally begin within 2 to 6 hours and include abdominal cramping, diarrhea, fever, headache, nausea, vomiting, and weakness. 
Food poisoning is a general term for health problems arising from eating contaminated food. Food may be contaminated by bacteria, viruses, environmental toxins, or toxins present within the food itself, such as the poisons in some mushrooms or certain seafood. Norwalk virus is another cause of food poisoning, usually associated with gastroenteritis. Symptoms are often mild, consisting of nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and abdominal pain. Headache and low-grade fever may occur. The fecal-oral route via contaminated water or food is the usual method of transmission.
Foodborne illness (also foodborne disease and colloquially referred to as food poisoning) is any illness resulting from the food spoilage of contaminated food, pathogenic bacteria, viruses, or parasites that contaminate food, as well as chemical or natural toxins such as poisonous mushrooms. 
Food poisoning, also called foodborne illness, is illness caused by eating contaminated food. Infectious organisms — including bacteria, viruses and parasites — or their toxins are the most common causes of food poisoning. 
Classical food poisoning, sometimes incorrectly called ptomaine poisoning, is caused by a variety of different bacteria. The most common are Salmonella, Staphylococcus aureus, Escherichia coli O157:H7 or other E. coli strains, Shigella, and Clostridium botulinum. Norwalk virus is another cause of food poisoning, usually associated with gastroenteritis. Symptoms are often mild, consisting of nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and abdominal pain. Headache and low-grade fever may occur. The fecal-oral route via contaminated water or food is the usual method of transmission.
What is food poisoning? Food poisoning is defined as any disease of an infectious or toxic nature caused by the consumption of food or drink. The term is most often used to describe the illness, usually diarrhoea and/or vomiting caused by bacteria, viruses or parasites. Very occasionally poisonings from chemicals may be the cause. 