The term lordosis refers to the normal inward lordotic curvature of the lumbar and cervical regions of the spine. Excessive curvature of the lower back is known as lumbar hyperlordosis, commonly called sway back, hollow back or saddle back (after a similar condition that affects some horses). 
Definition of LORDOSIS. 1. : abnormally increased inward curvature of the lower region of the spine resulting in a concave back as viewed from the side — compare kyphosis. 2. : a mating posture of some sexually receptive female mammals (as rats) in which the head and rump are raised and the back is arched downward. Medical Definition of LORDOSIS. : exaggerated forward curvature of the lumbar and cervical regions of the spinal column—compare kyphosis, scoliosis. — lor·dot·ic \-ˈdaet-ˈdät\ ik. adjective
Lordosis, also known as swayback, is a condition in which the spine in the lower back has an excessive curvature. The spine naturally curves at the neck, upper back, and lower back to help absorb shock and support the weight of the head. Lordosis occurs when the natural arch in the lower back, or lumbar region, curves more than normal.
lumbar lordosis. Definitions: 1. the normal, anteriorly convex curvature of the lumbar segment of the vertebral column; lumbar lordosis is a secondary curvature of the vertebral column, acquired postnatally as the upright posture is assumed when one learns to walk. Synonyms: lordosis lumbalis, lumbar flexure.
lumbar lordosis. the normal, anteriorly convex curvature of the lumbar segment of the vertebral column; lumbar lordosis is a secondary curvature of the vertebral column, acquired postnatally as the upright posture is assumed when one learns to walk. Synonym(s): lordosis lumbalis [TA], lumbar flexure. lumbar lordosis, the dorsally concave curvature of the lumbar spinal column when seen from the side. Also called lumbar curvature.
The normal, anteriorly convex curvature of the lumbar segment of the vertebral column; a secondary curvature, acquired postnatally as the upright posture is assumed when one learns to walk. Synonym(s): lordosis lumbalis [TA] . lumbar lordosis, the dorsally concave curvature of the lumbar spinal column when seen from the side. Also called lumbar curvature.
Lordosis is an increased inward curving of the lumbar spine (just above the buttocks). The spine has three types of curves: lordotic, kyphotic (the outward curve of the thoracic spine at rib-level), and scoliotic (sideways curving). A small degree of both kyphotic and lordotic curvature is normal. Too much lordotic curving is called swayback (lordosis). Scoliotic curving is always abnormal. In the natural state of a healthy spine, the cervical spine has a lordotic curvature, the thoracic spine has a kyphotic curvature, and the lumbar spine has a lordotic curvature. Loss of the lumbar spine curvature is known as a “flat back”.
Muscle spasm: The term lordosis refers to the normal inward curvature of the lumbar spine the lower part of your spinee. So that curve is now straight because your muscles are in spasm. Try muscle relaxers and NSAIDS to start to get some relief. The curve will come back. 