Physical Therapist (PT) Education Overview. Physical therapist (PT) professional education refers to the didactic and clinical education that prepares graduates for entry into practice of physical therapy. Education for the advancement of practicing physical therapists is termed post-professional
New York Physical Therapist Salaries. Within New York there is a lot of variation in Physical Therapist salaries. These variations depend on on a wide range of factors from population to general competitiveness in the market. Below is a map displaying a few key cities in New York and surrounding states, click on any one to find Physical Therapist Salaries for that area.
Salary. The median annual wage for physical therapists was $81,030 in 2013, according to the BLS. The best-paid 10 percent made $113,340, while the bottom 10 percent made $56,280. The highest wages go to physical therapists working in schools, home health care or nursing care facilities. According to the American Physical Therapy Association, there were more than 200 accredited physical therapy programs in 2013. Master of Physical Therapy or Master of Science in Physical Therapy degrees are no longer offered in the U.S., and PTs in training now receive a Doctor of Physical Therapy degree.
In order to help DPT new-grads evaluate or negotiate job offers, I put together a very short salary survey (only 6 questions) at this URL: If you are a recent grad, please take the survey. Since we're talking about money, I ran across the private student loan program below from Discover. For health professionals, the rates are either 6.79% (fixed), or 3.25% (variable [same as the prime rate]). While nobody can predict the future, the Fed seems to be willing to keep rates low for the next 12-18 months.
$86,000. Average New Grad Physical Therapist salaries for job postings in United States are the same as average New Grad Physical Therapist salaries for job postings nationwide. 
Starting Salaries. According to 2011 salary survey completed by the Advance for Physical Therapy and Rehab Medicines, the initial Physical Therapist Salary New Grad was confirmed to be an average of about $66,545. This salary was for therapists with five and below years of experience. The location where a physical therapist starts his career determines the Physical Therapist Salary New Grad. An Advance Survey reported that physical therapists that started their career in a acute care got a salary of $65,403 whereas people that started their career in hospitals got an increased pay of $70,881.
Back to DPT pay: IMO the way to a higher salary is not to work as a pure PT, but to leverage your past experience and carve out or invent a specific niche-at least for us non-trads who have significant prior work experience. Since we're talking about money, I ran across the private student loan program below from Discover. For health professionals, the rates are either 6.79% (fixed), or 3.25% (variable [same as the prime rate]). While nobody can predict the future, the Fed seems to be willing to keep rates low for the next 12-18 months.
Physical Therapist (PT) Salary. (United States). The average salary for a Physical Therapist (PT) is $66,560 per year. The highest paying skills associated with this job are Home Health/Home Care, Long Term Care, Home Care, and Geriatrics. Most people with this job move on to other positions after 20 years in this career. $53,812 - $84,559. 