Again, when Schwann cells simply surround axons without forming myelin, these axons are called nonmyelinated (unmyelinated) axons or nonmyelinated nerve fibers. Axons surrounded by a myelin sheath are called myelinated axons or myelinated nerve fibers. Peripheral nerves are bundles of nerve fibers that conduct impulses either from (efferent or motor) or into (afferent or sensory) the CNS. A nerve fiber by definition includes the neuronal process, either motor axon or sensory dendrite, plus the surrounding Schwann cell, be it myelinating or nonmyelinating.
Glial cells function to support neurons and in the PNS, also include satellite cells, olfactory ensheathing cells, enteric glia and glia that reside at sensory nerve endings, such as the Pacinian corpuscle. There are two types of Schwann cell, myelinating and nonmyelinating. In this sense, Schwann cells are the peripheral nervous system's analogues of the central nervous system 's oligodendrocytes. However, unlike oligodendrocytes, each myelinating Schwann cell provides insulation to only one axon (see image).
1 Myelin sheath acts as an insulator for the nerve fibers. 2  Neurolemmal sheath (sheath of Schwann) surrounds the myelin sheath. 3  It represents the plasma membrane (basal lamina) of the Schwann cell. 4  Beneath the membrane there lies a thin layer of cytoplasm with the nucleus of the Schwann cell. 
Nerve Fibers. The nerve fiber consists of a neuron's axon and its myelin sheath, if present. Nerve fibers are found in the peripheral nervous system and central nervous system. In the peripheral nervous system, Schwann cells form the sheath around axons, and each Schwann cell forms the sheath for just one neuron. Schwann cells, in the peripheral nervous system, and oligodendrocytes, in the central nervous system, wrap around the axons of neurons to form myelin sheaths. Myelin sheaths are electrical insulators and prevent current from leaving axons.
One nerve fibre consists of an axon and its nerve sheath. Each axon in the peripheral nervous system is surrounded by a sheath of Schwann cells. An individual Schwann cell may surround the axon for several hundred micrometers, and it may, in the case of unmyelinated nerve fibers, surround up to 30 separate axons. 
Myelin is a fatty white substance that surrounds the axon dielectric (electrically insulating) material that forms a layer, the myelin sheath, usually around only the axon of a neuron. It is essential for the proper functioning of the nervous system. It is an outgrowth of a type of glial cell. 
Depending on the location, different glial cell types make myelin in a different manner. Schwann cells make myelin in the peripheral nervous system (PNS: nerves) and oligodendrocytes in the central nervous system (CNS: brain and spinal cord). In the PNS, one Schwann cell forms a single myelin sheath (Figure 1A). In unmyelinated axons, the action potential travels continuously along the axons. For example, in unmyelinated C fibers that conduct pain or temperature (0.4–1.2 μm in diameter), conduction velocity along the axon is 0.5–2.0 m/s (as fast as you walk or jog).
The AXONS of the unmyelinated nerve fibers are small. The axons to SCHWANN CELLS ratio is greater in the unmyelinated nerve fibers than that in the myelinated fiber (NERVE FIBERS, MYELINATED) which is 1:1. Usually several axons are surrounded by a single Schwann cell in the unmyelinated nerve fibers. Therefore, each unmyelinated fiber is not completely covered by the MYELIN SHEATH formed by the Schwann ce
Structure [edit]. Schwann cells are a variety of glial cell that keep peripheral nerve fibres (both myelinated and unmyelinated) alive. In myelinated axons, Schwann cells form the myelin sheath (see above). The sheath is not continuous. Individual myelinating Schwann cells cover about 100 micrometres of an axon—equating to approximately 10,000 Schwann cells along a 1 metre length of the axon. In this sense, Schwann cells are the peripheral nervous system's analogues of the central nervous system 's oligodendrocytes. However, unlike oligodendrocytes, each myelinating Schwann cell provides insulation to only one axon (see image).
Schwann cells are known for their roles in supporting nerve regeneration. Nerves in the PNS consist of many axons myelinated by Schwann cells. If damage occurs to a nerve, the Schwann cells will aid in digestion of its axons (phagocytosis). In this sense, Schwann cells are the peripheral nervous system's analogues of the central nervous system 's oligodendrocytes. However, unlike oligodendrocytes, each myelinating Schwann cell provides insulation to only one axon (see image).