AMU is accredited by the North Central Association of Colleges and Schools. There are six regional accrediting agencies in the nation and this agency is one of them. Categories: Online Colleges-Tags: american military university address, american military university federal school code, amu degrees, amu university, is amu a good school, is amu regionally accredited. does AMU offer an online MBA program.
If it is good enough for the U.S. government, I believe it is good enough for any business or corporation. AMU is nationally and regionally accredited and is supported by federal aid, tuition assistance and veteran’s education programs. It is a military and hectic life friendly school. Even when I was in Iraq a few years back, I was able to work around my AMU class schedule to complete my B.A. Report Abuse. AMU is an awesome university, and it is fully accredited. I am in the final months of completing a Master's degree in History; it has taken me over three years while working full time, but I have to say I'm so glad I took on the challenge.
AMU University. Compared to other schools, AMU is very new. It has only been around since 1991 and was originally created to offer degree programs to members of the armed forces and law enforcement personnel. Many of the school’s degree programs are very unique and are not commonly found at other universities. Categories: Online Colleges-Tags: american military university address, american military university federal school code, amu degrees, amu university, is amu a good school, is amu regionally accredited. does AMU offer an online MBA program.
If you have questions or need further information on accreditation, please contact the Office of Institutional Accreditation at accreditation@apus.edu, Telephone: 304-724-3778, Fax: 304-724-3779. American Public University System (APUS) is accredited by the Higher Learning Commission (HLC). APUS is comprised of American Military University (AMU) and American Public University (APU). The Higher Learning Commission (www.hlcommission.org) is an accrediting body recognized by ED and CHEA. Accreditation requires a significant amount of self-study and presentation of evidence to satisfy the demanding requirements of accrediting organizations.
AMU is nationally and regionally accredited. Regional accreditation is the harder one to get. For the most part any nationally accredited school is eligible for the MGIB and or the Post 9/11 GIB. There are a lot of for profit schools out there. 
American Public University System (APUS) is a for-profit, online learning institution that is composed of American Military University (AMU) and American Public University (APU) . In June 1995 AMU became nationally accredited by the Accrediting Commission of the Distance Education and Training Council (DETC). In January of the following year, the school introduced its first undergraduate programs. In 1998 AMU made the transition from correspondence-based learning to online learning
American Military University is very legit school. AMU has the backing of the LAPD, US Government and Wal-Mart. They are nationally and regionally accredited and are well respect as a top notch online school. They even have a former Astonaut as Dean of The School of Science and Technology. Frankly, I think for profits should be avoided. Apparently, AMU is nationally accredited. You can read about the differences between national vs regional here.
Bachelor's Program Overview. American Public University System, a for-profit enterprise comprised of American Military University and American Public University, is regionally accredited by The Higher Learning Commission, a member of the North Central Association of Colleges and Schools. American Public University System, a proprietary institution, has been offering online bachelor's degree programs since 1995-1996. The majority of the online classes are recorded and archived so students can access lecture material at their own convenience.