If you have studied Roman numerals, you might see something special about the word vivid. It is spelled with letters that are all Roman numerals. (V equals 5, I equals 1, and D equals 500.) Some other words spelled with letters that are Roman numerals are dill, mill, livid, civil, and civic. vivid suggests an impressing on the mind of the vigorous aliveness of something. picturesque suggests the presentation of a striking or effective picture composed of features notable for their distinctness and charm.
• VIVID (adjective). The adjective VIVID has 4 senses: 1. evoking lifelike images within the mind. 2. having the clarity and freshness of immediate experience. 3. having striking color. 4. (of color) having the highest saturation. Familiarity information: VIVID used as an adjective is uncommon.
adj. 1. (of a colour) very bright; having a very high saturation or purity; produced by a pure or almost pure colouring agent. 2. brilliantly coloured: vivid plumage. 3. conveying to the mind striking realism, freshness, or trueness to life; graphic: a vivid account. 2. having bright or striking colors. 3. presenting the appearance, freshness, spirit, etc., of life; realistic: a vivid account. 4. strong, distinct, or clearly perceptible: a vivid recollection. 5. forming distinct and striking mental images: a vivid imagination. 6. full of life; lively; animated: a vivid personality.
A vivid word is a better word for other word like its a better meaning not a baby meaning. for example: good: amazing,fantastic, tasty: mouth watering, scarunsues. Vivid words that create imagery are words that are descriptive. Instead of saying a villain is bad, say the villain is malevolent.. Replace simple words like 'sad,' 'said,' … and 'mad' with more descriptive words that will create an image in the reader's mind. Use a thesaurus to help
Word Root of VIVID. The Latin word vivere, meaning “ to live, ” gives us the root viv. Words from the Latin vivere have something to do with living. To sur viv e is to remain alive. To re viv e is to bring back to life. vivid suggests an impressing on the mind of the vigorous aliveness of something. picturesque suggests the presentation of a striking or effective picture composed of features notable for their distinctness and charm.
A vivid word choice means you picked very descriptive or vivid words as adjectives (descriptors). Vivid words are mostly associated with adjectives, but strong verbs can als … o be vivid words. Boring sentence: The wind scared Mary. Vivid words that create imagery are words that are descriptive. Instead of saying a villain is bad, say the villain is malevolent.. Replace simple words like 'sad,' 'said,' … and 'mad' with more descriptive words that will create an image in the reader's mind. Use a thesaurus to help
adjective. Vivid is a child's imagination. Vivid is a child's imagination. The definition of vivid is something that is bright, intense or full of life. An example of vivid is the imagination of a child.
A vivid word is a better word for other word like its a better meaning not a baby meaning for example: good: amazing,fantastic, tasty: mouth watering, scarunsues. + 45 others found this useful. Viet Anh Hoang. Edit. Vivid words that create imagery are words that are descriptive. Instead of saying a villain is bad, say the villain is malevolent.. Replace simple words like 'sad,' 'said,' … and 'mad' with more descriptive words that will create an image in the reader's mind. Use a thesaurus to help.