1 Cerise is stated as a color that drains the complexion of Mrs Hudson in the  Sherlock  series one episode  The Great Game 2  . Cerise is stated as the color of a stroller that Bones wishes to buy for her and Booth's daughter, Christine, in the Bones season eight episode The Gunk in the Garage. 1 Cerise is the color representing students of the MSc programme in Computer Science and Engineering at the Swedish Royal Institute of Technology.
Be the first to review. 'Cerise Pink' is a shade of Pink that is 75% saturated and 93% bright. For reference purposes, Cerise Pink has the hex value #EC3B83. Sherwin Williams® carries a paint called 'Dragon Fruit' , which is 90% similar to Cerise Pink. Additionally, Pantone's® color #205 is a 94% match.
1 Cerise is one of the two official colors of Abingdon School, the other being white. 2  Cerise is the color representing students of the MSc programme in Computer Science and Engineering at the Swedish Royal Institute of Technology. 1 Cerise is the color representing students of the MSc programme in Computer Science and Engineering at the Swedish Royal Institute of Technology.
Cerise is a rose-red color. At right is displayed the color cerise. The cerise name comes from the French word meaning cherry. The word cherry itself comes from the Norman cherise. According to Maerz and Paul in their Dictionary of Color, the first recorded use of cerise as a color name in English was in 1858. 1 The color cerise represents partying and glamor, especially the color Hollywood cerise, shown below, which represents the glamor of Hollywood. 2  Cerise is a vivid, happy, fun color that is popular for women ’s lipstick, women’s clothing in general, and men ’s casual shirts.
Adj. 1. cerise-of a color at the end of the color spectrum (next to orange); resembling the color of blood or cherries or tomatoes or rubies. blood-red, carmine, cherry, cherry-red, crimson, red, reddish, ruby, ruby-red, scarlet, ruddy. chromatic-being or having or characterized by hue. Translations. Noun. 1. cerise-a red the color of ripe cherries. cherry red, cherry. red, redness-red color or pigment; the chromatic color resembling the hue of blood.
The color name comes from the French word cerise, meaning cherry. The word cherry itself comes from the Norman cherise. According to the Oxford English Dictionary, the first recorded use of cerise as a color name in English was in The Times of November 30, 1858. This date of 1858 as the date of first use of the color name is also mentioned in the 1930 book A Dictionary of Color. 1 Cerise is the color representing students of the MSc programme in Computer Science and Engineering at the Swedish Royal Institute of Technology.
What color is a color? There is green, blue, red, orange, purple, yellow, black, white, and all other shades of these bases.colors are anything you see exept everyhing from white to black Any thin … g that is made from a combination of Red, Blue and Yellow. Color is the appearance of objects or light sources; caused by the emitance, reflection, or transmittance of light.   Color is measured in wavelengths. A sighted person … can see many colors with light, because they are reflected into a sighted person's eyes.