Robin McLaurin Williams was born in Chicago on July 21, 1951. He was raised in affluence, but he was brought up, as he admits, by the maid. He developed comedy to please his mother. The family eventually moved to the San Francisco Bay Area, where Williams graduated from high school. Oscar-winning actor and comedian Robin Williams has died at age 63. According to police in Marin County, Calif., Williams was found unconscious and not breathing just before noon Monday inside his home in Tiburon, Calif., following a 911 phone call.
Related Tags: (CBS) – Robin Williams, the Chicago-born actor and comedian who became famous on TV’s “Mork & Mindy” and later became a big-screen leading man, has died. Williams, 63, was found dead Monday at his residence in Tiburon, Calif., of an apparent suicide, Marin County, Calif. officials reported.
Robin McLaurin Williams (July 21, 1951 – August 11, 2014) was an American actor and comedian. Starting as a stand-up comedian in San Francisco and Los Angeles in the mid-1970s, he is credited with leading San Francisco's comedy renaissance. Williams was born at St. Luke's Hospital in Chicago, Illinois. His mother, Laurie McLaurin (1922–2001), was a former model from Jackson, Mississippi, whose great-grandfather was Mississippi senator and governor Anselm J. McLaurin.
Synopsis. Famed actor and comedian Robin Williams was born on July 21, 1951, in Chicago, Illinois. After developing his improvisational style as a stand-up comedian, Williams landed his own television show, Mork and Mindy, and moved into leading parts in film with Robert Altman's Popeye. Robin Williams-Mork & Mindy (TV-14; 3:07) Actor and comedian Robin Williams caught his first big break when he auditioned for the role of Mork on Happy Days.
Mini Bio (1). Robin McLaurin Williams was born on Saturday, July 21st, 1951, in Chicago, Illinois, a great-great-grandson of Mississippi Governor and Senator, Anselm J. McLaurin. 
Commercial Breakthrough. Actor and comedian Robin McLaurin Williams was born on July 21, 1951, in Chicago, Illinois. Eventually becoming one of America's funniest performers, Williams attended Claremont Men's College and College of Marin before enrolling at the Juilliard School in New York City. Robin Williams-Mork & Mindy (TV-14; 3:07) Actor and comedian Robin Williams caught his first big break when he auditioned for the role of Mork on Happy Days.
Robin McLaurin Williams was born on Saturday, July 21st, 1951, in Chicago, Illinois, a great-great-grandson of Mississippi Governor and Senator, Anselm J. McLaurin. 