LPAR. (L ogical PAR tition) A logical segmentation of a mainframe's memory and other resources that allows it to run its own copy of the operating system and associated applications. LPARs are caused by special hardware circuits and allow multiple system images to run in one machine. MDF was the first to provide in hardware the equivalent of IBM's VM operating system, which supports multiple system images in software. Interestingly, an LPAR can host VM, which itself can host multiple operating systems. See PR/SM and virtual machine.
Part of the Hardware glossary: A logical partition (LPAR) is the division of a computer's processor s, memory, and storage into multiple sets of resources so that each set of resources can be operated independently with its own operating system instance and application s. Each partition can communicate with the other partitions as if the other partition is in a separate machine. Logical partitioning was first studied by IBM in 1976 and later introduced by Amdahl and then IBM. Hitachi and Sun Microsystems also use forms of logical partitioning.
LPAR (or PR/SM, which is the same thing in IBM terminology) is a logical partition of a machine. Each LPAR functions independently and can be IPLed (rebooted in PC terms) without affecting other LPARs on the machine. 
More recently, LPAR micro-partitioning allows unused CPU resources to be pooled in order to let the sub-divisions that have the greater workload to have access to a larger amount of computer resources when required. Central Processing Units can either be dedicated to a single LPAR or shared, depending on the machine’s configuration. The Power Hypervisor manages one or more LPAR partitions on a mainframe or other computer and acts as the virtual switch for the sub-divisions that share resources.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Dynamic Logical Partitioning (DLPAR), is the capability of a logical partition (LPAR) to be reconfigured dynamically, without having to shut down the operating system that runs in the LPAR. DLPAR enables memory, CPU capacity, and I/O interfaces to be moved nondisruptively between LPARs within the same server. Later on, the POWER5 processor added enhanced DLPAR capabilities, including micro-partitioning: up to 10 LPARs can be configured per processor, with a single multiprocessor server supporting a maximum of 254 LPARs (and thus up to 254 independent operating system instances).
A logical partition, commonly called an LPAR, is a subset of computer's hardware resources, virtualized as a separate computer. In effect, a physical machine can be partitioned into multiple logical partitions, each hosting a separate operating system. History [edit]. IBM developed the concept of hypervisors (virtual machines in CP-40 and CP-67) and in 1972 provided it for the S/370 as Virtual Machine Facility/370.
Definition of:LPAR. (L ogical PAR tition) A logical segmentation of a mainframe's memory and other resources that allows it to run its own copy of the operating system and associated applications. LPARs are caused by special hardware circuits and allow multiple system images to run in one machine. 
Print. Logical partitioning (LPAR) support arrived on the IBM eServer pSeries* late last year, coinciding with the release of the POWER4-based p690 server and AIX* 5L. LPAR continues to be incrementally enhanced as the OSs and hardware are updated. IBM teams also are working with customers and software developers worldwide to help determine how system administrators can best take advantage of these advances.
Thanks for visiting! Often there is confusion between LPAR and VIO Server. The article is an attempt to clarify the difference between the two. LPAR. LPAR as you all know is Logical Partition which is supported by IBM servers. During creation of LPAR CPUs, Memory and IO slots are provided to the partition from free pool of these resources. An LPAR acts as an independent server and is able to run AIX Operating System or Linux Operating Systems. In a physical server there can be many LPARs and corruption of one LPAR does not affect working of other partitions. In case of LPAR the main security features are: 1  Protection against inter-partition data access. Difference between LPAR and VIO Server. VIO server is a special case of LPAR. In this the IOs are all virtual and provided to the partitions on VIO Server. Means IO slots, CPUs and Memory are all virtual.
The IBM corporation invented LPAR in 1972 when it developed the concept of Hypervisors, which were virtual machines. The Start Interpretive Execution (SIE) instruction was deployed on the 3081 and was then used to help allocate system resources across LPARs in order to share physical computer resources. Central Processing Units can either be dedicated to a single LPAR or shared, depending on the machine’s configuration. The Power Hypervisor manages one or more LPAR partitions on a mainframe or other computer and acts as the virtual switch for the sub-divisions that share