1. not voluntary; independent of one's will: an involuntary listener. 2. unintentional; unconscious: an involuntary gesture. 3. caused through recklessness or negligence: involuntary manslaughter. 4. Physiol. acting or functioning without volition: involuntary muscles. 2. involuntary-controlled by the autonomic nervous system; without conscious control; involuntary muscles; gave an involuntary start. physiology-the branch of the biological sciences dealing with the functioning of organisms. voluntary-controlled by individual volition; voluntary motions; 
Split and merge into it. Answer by OH29432. Confidence votes 59. Voluntary means you will do something cooperatively, where involuntary means you are forced to do something against your will. adjective adjective: involuntary. 1  1. done without will or conscious control.  2 she gave an involuntary shudder. 
• INVOLUNTARY (adjective). The adjective INVOLUNTARY has 2 senses: 1. not subject to the control of the will. 2. controlled by the autonomic nervous system; without conscious control. Familiarity information: INVOLUNTARY used as an adjective is rare. Similar: automatic; reflex; reflexive (without volition or conscious control). autonomic (relating to or controlled by the autonomic nervous system). vegetative (relating to involuntary bodily functions). Domain category: physiology (the branch of the biological sciences dealing with the functioning of organisms).
Involuntary unemployment occurs when a person is willing to work at the prevailing wage yet is unemployed. Involuntary unemployment is distinguished from voluntary unemployment, where workers choose not to work because their reservation wage is higher than the prevailing wage. In an economy with involuntary unemployment there is a surplus of labor at the current real wage. 
1. involuntary muscle-a muscle that contracts without conscious control and found in walls of internal organs such as stomach and intestine and bladder and blood vessels (excluding the heart). smooth muscle.
Full Definition of INVOLUNTARY. 1. : done contrary to or without choice. 2. : compulsory. 3. : not subject to control of the will: reflex. — in·vol·un·tari·ly \-ˌvae-ˌvä-lən-ˈter-ə, -lē-ˈte-\ rə. — adverb·in·vol·un·tari \-ness-ˈvae-ˈvä-lən-ˌter, -ē-nəs-\ ˌte. Rē noun see involuntary Defined-for english. language learners 
Meaning: Not subject to the control of the will. Synonyms: involuntary; nonvoluntary; unvoluntary. Context examples: involuntary manslaughter / involuntary servitude / an involuntary shudder / It (becoming a hero) was involuntary. Similar: automatic; reflex; reflexive (without volition or conscious control). autonomic (relating to or controlled by the autonomic nervous system). vegetative (relating to involuntary bodily functions). Domain category: physiology (the branch of the biological sciences dealing with the functioning of organisms).
Involuntary: Done other than in accordance with the conscious will of the individual. The opposite of voluntary. The terms voluntary and involuntary apply to the human nervous system and its control over muscles. The nervous system is divided into two parts -- somatic and autonomic. 
Involuntary That which occurs when a person commits an unlawful act that is not felonious or tending to cause great bodily harm, or when a person is committing a lawful act without due caution or requisite skill–eg a surgeon performing an operation while intoxicated, and inadvertently kills another. 