Subchorionic Hemorrhage is bleeding behind the placenta, often caused by a clot. In most cases, this clot will dissolve away, resolving the problem and allowing the pregnancy to progress normally. It may take several weeks for this clot to dissolve. Treatment for a Subchorionic hemorrhage is typically bed rest. Rarely, the clot dissects between the placenta and the attachment to mother. This may lead to placental abruption. Risk factors that may increase the chance of experiencing this include high blood pressure, smoking and cocaine use
Topic Overview. A subchorionic hemorrhage is bleeding under one of the membranes (chorion) that surrounds the embryo. It is a common cause of bleeding in early pregnancy. It also may be called a subchorionic hematoma. The main symptom is vaginal bleeding. But some women don't have symptoms
Subchorionic Hematoma is a great concern for expectant mothers. This is described as a blood clot formation found in the pregnancy membranes and the uterus. This is said to be a rare phenomenon. About 25% of pregnancies are noted to be affected of such condition. Subchorionic hematoma during pregnancy is somehow identified by the doctors as natural condition, not unless large hematomas are involved and are found late. There is a tendency that once the ultrasound show hematoma and the doctor shall explain the phenomenon, the mothers become agitated.
What it is: Also called subchorionic hematoma, subchorionic bleeding is the accumulation of blood within the folds of the chorion (the outer fetal membrane, next to the placenta) or within the layers of the placenta itself. 
Overview. Subchorionic hemorrhage (subchorionic hematoma) is the most common sonographic abnormality in the presence of a live embryo. Vaginal bleeding affects 25% of all women during the first half of pregnancy and is a common reason for first-trimester ultrasonography. Sonographic visualization of a subchorionic hematoma is important in a symptomatic woman because pregnant women with a demonstrable hematoma have a prognosis worse than women without a hematoma (see example images below). However, small, asymptomatic subchorionic hematomas do not worsen the patient's prognosis.
A: A subchorionic hematoma (also known as subchorionic bleeding) is a space of fluid collection, presumably blood, between the gestational sac, usually the placenta, and the uterine wall. 
There is excessive bleeding and a collection of blood or hematoma that forms between the chorionic membrane surrounding the embryo, and the wall of the uterus. Subchorionic hemorrhage is caused because the membrane surrounding the embryo separates from the inner lining of the uterus. 
Chorionic hematoma (also chorionic hemorrhage) is the pooling of blood (hematoma) between the chorion, a membrane surrounding the embryo, and the uterine wall. Chorionic hematomas can be caused by the separation of the chorion from the endometrium (inner membrane of the uterus). Hematomas are classified by their location between tissue layers: 1  Subchorionic hematomas, the most common type, are between the chorion and endometrium.
Subchorionic haemorrhage (SCH) occurs when there is perigestational haemorrhage and blood collects between the uterine wall and the chorionic membrane in pregnancy. It is a frequent cause of first and second trimester bleeding. 
Subchorionic Hemorrhage. A subchorionic hemorrhage, also known as a subchorionic hematoma or simply SCH, is created when blood gathers in the space between the placenta and uterus. The technical term is chorion, but many doctors will simply call it a blood clot. In most cases, the first symptom of a subchorionic hemorrhage is vaginal bleeding. This can be very heavy or very light. Because bleeding might also be a sign of miscarriage, calling your doctor the moment you notice it is a good idea.