While a mobile notary may perform any type of notarial service prescribed by his or her state's statutory laws, it is more common that mobile notaries are called upon to perform various types of real estate or mortgage transactions. There is minimal compensation for the day-to-day services that notaries provide as public officers; a mobile notary profession is a means of taking your notarial skills to a higher, more profitable level.
There is no legal distinction between a notary and a mobile notary as the government has no rules regarding mobile notaries and no paperwork necessary to become one providing you are a notary public in your state. Mobile notaries generally charge a travel fee on top of notary fees. 
A mobile notary is any notary who, upon request, travels from location to location to perform notarial services. Hence, the mobile notaries who perform such services are often called notary signing agents or mortgage signing agents. They are distinguished from loan closers who, in most states, have more complex duties than a commissioned notary public. (more...).
Notary publics -- or notaries public -- prepare legal documents, officially witness signatures and certify documents by affixing an official seal. Their potential client base includes realtors, insurance brokers, lenders, auto dealerships, law offices, health-care providers and private individuals. Find a niche market that will set you apart from other mobile notaries. For instance, you can focus your efforts on loan signings or power of attorney documents. Or, you may choose to offer a wide variety of services instead as a way to attract more clients.
Take a quick e-course! Any notary public can become a mobile notary. A mobile notary is simply a notary public who is willing to travel to a client's home, office, hospital, or jail cell. You can learn more about what a mobile notary is and what they do on http://www.123notary.com/succtips.htm. No special knowledge other than navigation skills is necessary to be a mobile notary, however, it is much more lucrative if you learn the art of loan signing and hospital signings which requires some studying. 
A mobile notary is a notary public who is mobile and travels to clients. Typically a mobile notary goes to anywhere from one to eight places per day and notarize a single signature, or do a loan signing at any particular stop. A mobile notary may charge the regular fee that notaries may charge in their state plus a travel fee. There are no legal regulations regarding travel fees in most states. Please check your state's page on http://www.123notary.com/find-a-notary-public.asp to see if your state has a travel fee limit. To become a mobile notary, you must first become a commissioned notary public in your state. www.becomeanotary.us sells courses to become a notary public in California and New York State.
A notary public (or notary or public notary) of the common law is a public officer constituted by law to serve the public in non-contentious matters usually concerned with estates, deeds, powers-of-attorney, and foreign and international business. 
A notary public may be described as an officer of the law because the office they hold is a judicial and public office. A mobile notary is very similar to a Notary Public in that all of the abilities and authorities given them are the same. A mobile notary is exactly how it sounds a mobile representative who will drive to a citizen's house to conduct the oath or affirmation, or authenticate/ notarize documents, etc... 
Nationwide Mobile Notary Public. Superior Notary Services pioneered the concept of Mobile Notary Services” in 2000. Serving the legal, financial and real estate industry, we have changed the landscape of the mobile notary public service industry. Our mobile notary services feature agents that come to you, at your convenience. A mobile notary public is not an attorney and cannot make something legal or ensure that it is true. We are, however, experienced and diligent in the notary process, and we will try within the scope of our assigned role to prevent fraud for our clients.
A notary is a lawyer or person with legal training who is licensed by the government to perform acts in legal affairs, in particular witnessing signatures on documents. 