The most notable difference between mute swans and the two native swan species found in Michigan (trumpeter swan and tundra swan) is that adult mute swans have orange bills. The two native swans have black bills. Mute swans also have a black knob on the top of their bill, that is absent in the native swan species.
Species and Origin: Mute swans are a large species of white waterfowl. Adult mute swans have all white plumage, vibrant orange bills, and black knobs above the bill. Young birds have grayish bills. Native swans have entirely black bills. Mute swans are native to Europe and Asia.
The most notable difference between mute swans and the two native swan species found in Michigan (trumpeter swan and tundra swan) is that adult mute swans have orange bills. The two native swans have black bills. Mute swans also have a black knob on the top of their bill, which is absent in the native swan species. Mute swans typically have an S-shaped curve to their neck, while trumpeter swans have a C-shaped curve. Mute swans are also generally quieter than trumpeter swans, which have a loud trumpet-like call.
The mute swan (Cygnus olor) is a species of swan, and thus a member of the waterfowl family Anatidae. It is native to much of Europe and Asia, and (as a rare winter visitor) the far north of Africa. It is also an introduced species in North America, Australasia and southern Africa.
History in New York. Mute swans are a non-native, invasive species first brought to this country from Europe in the late 1800s for their aesthetic value. Initially introduced in New York's lower Hudson Valley and Long Island, mute swans were kept by breeders as domestics on the ponds of private estates.
Mute swans are not native to Michigan, or to North America. They were brought to this country from Europe. Mute swans were introduced to this continent in the mid-1800s to adorn city parks and large estates.
Mute swan. Species and Origin: Mute swans are a large species of white waterfowl. Adult mute swans have all white plumage, vibrant orange bills, and black knobs above the bill. Young birds have grayish bills. Native swans have entirely black bills. Mute swans are native to Europe and Asia.