Many different diseases and conditions cause chronic pain. One of the most common is arthritis, a group of diseases that cause inflammation of the joints. Other common types of chronic pain are backache, muscle pain, headache and sore feet. Arthritis pain is caused by: 1  inflammation, the process that causes the redness and swelling in your joints. 2  damage to joint tissues caused by the disease process or from wear and tear.
Actually, “arthritis” is not a single disease; it is an informal way of referring to joint pain or joint disease. There are more than 100 different types of arthritis and related conditions. People of all ages, sexes and races can and do have arthritis, and it is the leading cause of disability in America. Degenerative Arthritis. Osteoarthritis is the most common type of arthritis. When the cartilage – the slick, cushioning surface on the ends of bones – wears away, bone rubs against bone, causing pain, swelling and stiffness. Over time, joints can lose strength and pain may become chronic
The most common symptoms of arthritis involve the joints. Joint pain and stiffness, mostly in the morning, are typical signs, along with swelling of the joints. You may also experience a decrease in range of motion of your joints or redness of the skin around the joint. There are more than 100 different types of arthritis, all of which have different causes and treatment methods. The symptoms of arthritis usually appear gradually but they may also occur suddenly. Arthritis is most commonly seen in adults over the age of 65 but it can also develop in children and teens.
There are over 100 different forms of arthritis. The most common form of arthritis is osteoarthritis (degenerative joint disease), a result of trauma to the joint, infection of the joint, or age. Other arthritis forms are rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, and related autoimmune diseases. 
Arthritis is inflammation of the joints (the points where bones meet) in one or more areas of the body. There are more than 100 different types of arthritis, all of which have different causes and treatment methods. The symptoms of arthritis usually appear gradually but they may also occur suddenly. Arthritis is most commonly seen in adults over the age of 65 but it can also develop in children and teens.
The term arthritis includes more than 100 different rheumatic diseases and conditions, the most common of which is osteoarthritis. Other forms of arthritis that occur often are rheumatoid arthritis, lupus, fibromyalgia, and gout. Symptoms include pain, aching, stiffness, and swelling in or around the joints. Some forms of arthritis, such as rheumatoid arthritis and lupus, can affect multiple organs and cause widespread symptoms.
This makes the movement of affected joints more difficult and painful. In time, bones may rub directly against one another inside the joint, causing severe pain. Inflammation can also result from this constant, painful friction. OA most often affects knees, hips, hands, and the spine. In most cases, OA does not affect the same joint on both sides of the body, such as both knees. The intensity of pain varies from person to person.
1 Arthritis is inflammation of one or more joints. 2  Symptoms of arthritis include pain and limited function of joints. 3  Arthritis sufferers include men and women, children and adults. 4  A rheumatologist is a medical arthritis expert. 5  Earlier and accurate diagnosis can help to prevent irreversible damage and disability. 
Some, but not all types of arthritis, are the result of misdirected inflammation. Arthritis is a general term that describes inflammation in joints. Some types of arthritis associated with inflammation include: 1  Rheumatoid arthritis. 2  Psoriatic arthritis. 3  Gouty arthritis. 4  Systemic lupus erythematosus