History of Salsa Part 3. The Origin of the salsa dance steps currently being danced to salsa music come from the son, but were influenced by many other Cuban dances such as Mambo, Cha cha cha, Guaracha, Changuei, Changüí Palo, Monte, Rumba, Abakua abakuá comparsa and Sometimes. even mozambique History of Salsa Part 3. The Origin of the salsa dance steps currently being danced to salsa music come from the son, but were influenced by many other Cuban dances such as Mambo, Cha cha cha, Guaracha, Changuei, Changüí Palo, Monte, Rumba, Abakua abakuá comparsa and Sometimes. Even mozambique salsa can be a heavily. improvised dance
http://www.bailaproductions.com/. Where does salsa comes from? A brief history of Salsa for Beginners. Video produced by Baila Productions inc. Latin dance school in Laval and West-Island. 1  Entertainment. 2  Standard YouTube License. 
Salsa dancing in Cali, Colombia. Salsa is a popular form of social dance that originated in New York with strong influences from Latin America, particularly Colombia, Cuba and Puerto Rico. In some styles of salsa, such as the New York style, the dancers remain mostly in front of one another (switching places), while in Latin American styles, such as Cuban style, the dancers circle around each other, sometimes in 3 points.
My question is where a lot of different dances come from. For example Salsa, Cha Cha, and a few others come from Latin America. Is Tango from Spain? Okay I know hustle came from the Latin quarter in NY city during the disco era. And I believe Cha-Cha and Salsa come from Cuba. And I know that bachata comes from the Dominican Republic and while it is disputed where Merengue comes from it certainly comes from the island of Hispaniola.
Where does Salsa come from? 'Salsa' itself means 'sauce'. It's a Spanish word, it means 'sauce'. It's a term that came about in the 70's by the Fania All Stars who were based in New York. Basically, did their own take on Cuban Salsa and they coined the phrase 'Salsa'. Which incorporated a lot of different rhythms from Latin American styles of music. It was designed to make it easier to package it for consumption by the West.
The name salsa (mixture) has been described as a dance since the mid-1970s. The use of the term for the dance started in New York. In some styles of salsa, such as the New York style, the dancers remain mostly in front of one another (switching places), while in Latin American styles, such as Cuban style, the dancers circle around each other, sometimes in 3 points.
The word salsa entered the English language from the Spanish salsa (sauce), which itself derives from the Latin salsa (salty), from sal ( salt ). The native Spanish pronunciation is [ˈsalsa] . In American and Canadian English it is pronounced /ˈsɑːlsə/ , while in British English it is pronounced as /ˈsaelsə/ . ˈsælsə 1 Mango salsa is a spicy-sweet sauce made from mangoes, used as a topping for nachos. 2  It is often also used as a garnish on grilled chicken or grilled fish due to the sauce's gamut of complementary flavors.
Recommend this Salsa History page to a friend on Google, Twitter, Facebook, StumbleUpon, Yahoo, email +293 more social networks. Follow Centralhome on Facebook and Google +. Page content: History of Salsa dancing, where does Salsa dance and music originate from, Salsa origin, Salsa histories. © 1996 - 2015 Centralhome.com Company Inc. Copyright | Disclaimer & Terms of Use | Privacy. All rights reserved worldwide.
History of Salsa Part 2. The Origin of the salsa dance steps currently being danced to salsa music come from the son, but were influenced by many other Cuban dances such as Mambo, Cha cha cha, Guaracha, Changuei, Changüí Palo, Monte, Rumba, Abakua abakuá comparsa and Sometimes. Even mozambique salsa can be a heavily. improvised dance History of Salsa Part 3. The Origin of the salsa dance steps currently being danced to salsa music come from the son, but were influenced by many other Cuban dances such as Mambo, Cha cha cha, Guaracha, Changuei, Changüí Palo, Monte, Rumba, Abakua abakuá comparsa and Sometimes. Even mozambique salsa can be a heavily. improvised dance