COILED TUBING UNIT. A coiled tubing unit is primarily composed of a tubing reel, an injector, and control console. It's a cost and time-effective solution for well intervention operations in comparison to conventional work over rigs. A cost-and time-effective solution for well intervention operations employs coiled tubing. Instead of removing the tubing from the well to fix a problem like a workover rig, coiled tubing is inserted into the tubing against the pressure of the well and during production.
A generic term relating to the use of a coiled tubing string and associated equipment. As a well-intervention method, coiled tubing techniques offer several key benefits over alternative well-intervention technologies. The ability to work safely under live well conditions, with a continuous string, enables fluids to be pumped at any time regardless of the position or direction of travel.
Increasingly, the coiled tubing unit is used for many well intervention operations and certain drilling applications. Coiled tubing (CT) refers to a continuous length of small-diameter steel pipe and related surface equipment as well as associated drilling, completion and workover, or remediation, tech-niques. 
Coiled tubing is a continuous string of tubing, rolled onto a spool. It is made from rolling strip material into a tubular form and resistance welding along its length. Coiled-Tubing (CT) continues to grow as an enabling technology that provides cost economy and time efficiency for the oil and gas industry. The coiled tubing is a continuous length of steel or composite tubing that is flexible enough to be wound on a large reel for transportation. The coiled tubing unit is composed: 1  Reel-for storage and transport of the coiled tubing. 2  Injector Head-to provide the surface drive force to run and retrieve
Coiled tubing (CT) has been used in oil and gas operations for many years and has proven to be an efficient, reliable and economic tool. The coiled tubing technology has been utilized for drilling, completions, workover, stimulation, and plugging and abandonment work for decades, with considerable success. 
Coiled tubing is used for a wide variety of oil and gas well interventions. It is used in the completion and production of such oil wells, as well as cleaning and cementing these wells. It can perform open hole drilling operations. Coiled tubing contains metal string or piping that is generally between 1 inch (2.5 cm) to 3.25 inches (8.3 cm) in diameter. It is made from carbon steel metal piping of a very fine grain size. As the metal piping is coiled, it is welded along its length so that no joints are visible.
The coiled tubing unit is composed of a reel with the coiled tubing, an injector, control console, power supply and well-control stack. The coiled tubing is injected into the existing production string, unwound from the reel and inserted into the well. Coiled Tubing Operations. All performed on a live well, there are a number of well intervention operations that can be achieved via coiled tubing. These include cleanout and perforating the wellbore, as well as retrieving and replacing damaged equipment.
Coiled tubing is also used to fracture wells, which is done to break the rock in order to allow the substance in the well to flow. If used properly, coiled tubing can be used for virtually any oil and gas well operation. The coil looks like a long continuous string of tubing that is coiled and rolled into a spool. It can range in diameter from 8 feet (2.43 meters) to 12 feet (3.6576 meters). Coiled tubing contains metal string or piping that is generally between 1 inch (2.5 cm) to 3.25 inches (8.3 cm) in diameter. It is made from carbon steel metal piping of a very fine grain size. As the metal piping is coiled, it is welded along its length so that no joints are visible.
The coiled tubing is a continuous length of steel or composite tubing that is flexible enough to be wound on a large reel for transportation. The coiled tubing unit is composed of a reel with the coiled tubing, an injector, control console, power supply and well-control stack. The coiled tubing is injected into the existing production string, unwound from the reel, and inserted into the well. A cost-and time-effective solution for well intervention operations employs coiled tubing. Instead of removing the tubing from the well to fix a problem like a workover rig, coiled tubing is inserted into the tubing against the pressure of the well and during production.
In the oil and gas industries, coiled tubing refers to a very long metal pipe, normally 1 to 3.25 in (25 to 83 mm) to in diameter which is supplied spooled on a large reel. It is used for interventions in oil and gas wells and sometimes as production tubing in depleted gas wells. Below the stripper is the preventer, which provides the ability to cut the coiled tubing pipe and seal the well bore (shear-blind) and hold and seal around the pipe (pipe-slip). Older quad-BOPs have a different ram for each of these functions (blind, shear, pipe, slip).