Copy a table from one Office PowerPoint 2007 slide to another slide. Click the table that you want to copy. Rest the pointer on the outer most border of the table (but not on the dots), and then when the pointer becomes a, press CTRL-C. Move to the slide on which you want to add the table, and then press CTRL-V. Draw a table. Select the slide that you want to add a table to. On the Insert tab, in the Tables group, click Table, and then click Draw Table. The pointer changes to a pencil.
Click in the PowerPoint slide where you want to paste the Word table, click the “Home” tab on the PowerPoint ribbon and then click the “Paste” button in the Clipboard group to insert the Word table. Step 6. Edit the table with the PowerPoint commands. Step 4. Open the PowerPoint presentation, navigate to the slide, and then click the “Normal” button on the status bar. The command ribbon and slide pane will display. Step 5. Click in the slide where you want to insert the Word table.
Step 3. Click the “Home” tab and then click the “Copy” button in the Clipboard group to copy the table data to the clipboard. Step 4. Open the PowerPoint presentation, click the “View” tab and then click the “Normal” button to display the command ribbon and the slide pane. Step 4. Open the PowerPoint presentation, navigate to the slide, and then click the “Normal” button on the status bar. The command ribbon and slide pane will display. Step 5. Click in the slide where you want to insert the Word table.
Instructions. Open the Microsoft Word file that contains the table that you want to copy into your PowerPoint presentation. Click the “Table” option if you’re using Word 2003. Click the “Layout” tab, then click the “Select” option for Word 2007. Click the “Select Table” option and the entire table will be selected. Close your Word file. Open the PowerPoint file that you want to paste the table into. Click in the slide to which you want to add the table. Click the “Paste” button from the top toolbar or press the “CTRL” and “V” key at the same time. The table will then appear on your PowerPoint slide
Select the slide that you want to insert a table on. On the Insert tab, in the Tables group, click Table, and then click Excel Spreadsheet. To add text to a table cell, click the cell, and then enter your text. After you enter your text, click outside the table. Draw a table. Select the slide that you want to add a table to. On the Insert tab, in the Tables group, click Table, and then click Draw Table. The pointer changes to a pencil.
Open the Word document that contains the table you want to copy and then click in the table. The Table Tools ribbon will display. Step 2. Click the “Layout” tab in the Table Tools ribbon, click the “Select” button in the Table group to display a list of options and then click “Select Table” to highlight the whole table. Step 4. Open the PowerPoint presentation, navigate to the slide, and then click the “Normal” button on the status bar. The command ribbon and slide pane will display. Step 5. Click in the slide where you want to insert the Word table.
Copy and paste a table from Word. In Word, click the table that you want to copy, and then under Table Tools, on the Layout tab, in the Table group, click the arrow next to Select, and then click Select Table. On the Home tab, in the Clipboard group, click Copy. In your PowerPoint presentation, select the slide that you want to copy the table to, and then on the Home tab, click Paste. Tip You can also copy and paste a table from your PowerPoint presentation onto an Excel worksheet or into a Word document. Create and format a table in PowerPoint. Select the slide that you want to add a table to. On the Insert tab, in the Tables group, click Table. In the Insert Table dialog box, do one of the following: Click and move the pointer to select the number of rows and columns that you want, and then release the mouse button