To prune a mature crepe myrtle, you're going to need a few different types of pruning tools. Gather the following supplies from your garage or a hardware store before you get started: 1  A hand pruner, for pruning small twigs and thin branches.
Wait until the appropriate season to prune your crepe myrtle. Plan to prune in late winter or early spring for the best summer blooms. Pruning before leaves sprout on the tree is also helpful because you get a clearer view of which branches to cut.
Too often crape myrtles are cut back to bare trunks in the belief this abuse will yield more flowers. In reality this type of severe pruning results in a shorter bloom time, delayed flowering, weaker branching, and can increase insect and disease problems.
The only pruning you should do at this time is to remove branches for the health of the shrub. If you are pruning your crape myrtle to a tree shape, remove any suckers or lateral branches, as well. As the summer passes through July and August, you may want to trim off dead flowers.
The best month to prune crape myrtles is February, when the shrub is fully dormant and the branches are leafless and exposed. The naked branches give you a view of the structure and frame of the shrub. This is the month to prune out the interior of the plant, if needed, to improve air circulation.
Don't over-prune by lopping the trunks close to the ground. Aside from those guidelines, you can prune your crepe myrtle to a shape and size that works for your yard. 1  Crepe myrtles can grow about 1 to 2 feet (30-40 cm) per season, so prune based on your desired tree height. 2  Keep in mind that several new growth will sprout from the pruned areas.
If you are training your crape myrtle to a tree shape, remove any suckers at the base of the plant and prune off lateral branches on the lower trunk. Cuts made during February often develop new growth in spring and flowers in summer.
Two, crepe myrtle blooms on new growth. Pruning in winter won’t reduce summer blooming. Having said that, you can produce a second major flush of blooms on most crepe myrtles by pruning off the round, green seed pods that form just after the first flowers fade.