Ground beef must be cooked until the internal temperature reaches a minimum of 160°F to ensure that dangerous bacteria are destroyed. Ground beef dishes, such as meatloaf, should be checked for doneness with a meat thermometer. Because of the increased concern with harmful bacteria that may be present in beef, medium-rare (145ºF on a meat thermometer, using updated guidelines) is the minimum degree of doneness that is recommended. Internal Temperatureof Beef Cooked Medium-Rare (after resting period). Traditional Guidelines:
A beef roast cooked to medium-rare should have an internal temperature of 145°F - 150ºF after the resting period, and a roast cooked to medium should have an internal temperature of 150°F to 160ºF. (See the note below). See Beef Doneness for more information on proper cooking temperatures. Place the beef on a rack in a shallow roasting pan with the fat side up. Do not cover the roast and do not add any liquid (liquid is used for braising, not roasting). Allow the beef to roast at 450°F for 45 minutes and then begin checking the internal temperature of the meat with a meat thermometer. Continue roasting the meat until the internal temperature has reached 5 or 10 degrees below the desired donenes
Whole beef cuts usually have bacteria only on the surface, but it is possible for harmful bacteria to be present in the internal portions, so cooking the meat to an internal temperature of 145°F is sufficient to kill the bacteria. (The surface of the meat will be at a much higher temperature; usually 160°F or above). Because of the increased concern with harmful bacteria that may be present in beef, medium-rare (145ºF on a meat thermometer, using updated guidelines) is the minimum degree of doneness that is recommended. Internal Temperatureof Beef Cooked Medium-Rare (after resting period). Traditional Guidelines:
The proper temperature to cook a medium-rare steak is 130° - 135° F. Although, according to foodsafety.gov, beef, lamb, and pork should be cooked to at least 145° (or above, if desired). Ground meat must be cooked to at least 160° F. Ground poultry must be cooked to at least 165°. 
Traditional guidelines for doneness state that beef cooked very rare, rare, or medium-rare should have an internal temperature ranging between 115ºF to 140°F. Many people prefer beef cooked rare (especially steak), but this decision is up to the consumer and is certainly not recommended by the USDA. Because of the increased concern with harmful bacteria that may be present in beef, medium-rare (145ºF on a meat thermometer, using updated guidelines) is the minimum degree of doneness that is recommended. Internal Temperatureof Beef Cooked Medium-Rare (after resting period). Traditional Guidelines:
The correct internal temperature for a beef rib roast is 135  degrees for medium rare. You should take it out of the oven when it  reaches this temperature. Once it stands f … or abit, outside the  oven, the internal temperature will reach 145 degrees. While it can depend on the cut of meat in general for a roast of beef 135-140 degrees is rare, 155 to 160 degrees would be medium, and 170 to 180 degrees would be consid … ered well done.
That is the beauty of the meat thermometer as it is an accurate way of measuring that internal temperature of the meat during cooking. How to tell when your beef, lamb, veal or goat is done. When your meat is done (be it a steak or a roast), the internal temperature of the meat will be: 1  Rare 60ºC. 2  Medium rare 60-65ºC. 3  Medium 65-70ºC. 4  Medium well done 70ºC. 5  Well done 75ºC.
You Say Rare, I Say Raw. Rare roast beef is red and cool, but not cold, which is extra-rare -- also known as blue or essentially raw -- in the center. The internal temperature of rare roast beef is approximately 120 to 130 degrees Fahrenheit. Medium rare is 130 to 140 degrees Fahrenheit. The current minimum required temperature for cooked beef, as set by the U.S. Department of Agriculture, is 145 degrees Fahrenheit. A rare roast beef attains an internal temperature of only 130 degrees.
Temperature is a gauge of how thoroughly cooked a cut of meat is based on the color, juiciness and internal temperature when cooked. The gradations of cooking are most often used in reference to beef (especially steak and roasts) but are also applicable to lamb, pork, poultry, veal and seafood (especially fish). 