The telephone is a technology that has become an integral part of our life since it was invented in 1876 by Alexander Graham Bell. The nineteenth century was era of communication revolution when many electronic communication devices were invented. Postman states that the greatest invention of the nineteenth century was the idea of invention itself (Postman, 1992, p42). The telephone has had a big impact on the world. Ong claims the telephone has brought us into the age of secondary orality (Ong, 1982, p. 133). In this paper I will examine the telephone as a communication technology and its impact on writing and society.
The telephone is one invention that changed the world and opened a wide world of communication. Many businesses benefited from the additional communication options that became available after the invention of the telephone. The telephone was invented in the 1870s. Alexander Graham Bell was the first person to register the invention of the telephone at the patent office. His competitor Elisha Gray registered a similar patent just a few hours after he did.
The telephone change a lot over time.... 15. 0. The telephone change a lot over time. Since the introduction of the telephone to the general public, it made people communicate faster and closer with one another. From a local town, the area of coverage gradually increased, and eventually took over an entire nation. It changed society as it leads to a faster exchange of information and communication.... 33. 1. The invention of the telephone allowed communication between people over great distances
Telephones have changed dramatically since Alexander Graham Bell spoke the first words into a telephone on March 10, 1876. Overall, they’ve improved since then, but the road wasn’t always smooth. Here’s a look back at the most important advances in telephone technology and some of the worst. On March 10, 1876, Alexander Graham Bell spoke into his device and said to his assistant, “Mr. Watson, come here, I want to see you.” In doing so, Bell launched the telephone era with the first bi-directional electronic transmission of the spoken word. At least that is how the story typically goes.
By Chelsea Henderson, clh303@psu.edu. Communication has certainly changed a lot over the past 150 years. When our founding fathers first came to America, the only form of communication they had with one another was through letters, which could take days or even weeks to reach its destination. Sending letters to England could take months. The telephone came a long way since it was first developed in the late 1800s. There have been many changes to this form of communication and as of now, it seems like nothing is impossible. From satellite phone to cell phones to smart phones, it seems like mobile communication has just started to take off.
As you can see from Figure 5 the design of the telephone has changed considerably over its lifetime, reflecting the improvements in technology, materials, components and manufacturing processes. Figure 5 (a) is a replica of Bell's ‘liquid transmitter’ of 1876 and Figure 5 (b) is a Bell telephone and terminal panel from 1877 showing the adaptation for two-way conversation. Edison's wall telephone (Figure 5 c) was developed by 1880 and the classic ‘candlestick’ table top phone (Figure 5 d) by 1900.
Split and merge into it. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. The telephone has changed design over time but the machine part still works the same, the sound gives off waves that travel into the mouthpiece where the transmitter copies the sound waves identically. How the Telephone Has Changed Over Time We type in the numbers instead of using the dial circle. The look has changed. We can call long distance. No cords! Much smaller. Mor … e technology. You can also put people on speed dial.
The invention of the telephone have changed the way people communicate completely. Before telephone was used the most comman use of communication was through letters which took a lot of time reaching it`s destination and the futher it was the longer it took. It changed society as it leads to a faster exchange of information and communication.... 33. 1. The invention of the telephone allowed communication between people over great distances