You have to check out sources if you look up things online, as they can just be someone's opinion. The pay is about 1000 dollars a month for part time, but in real life that translates to how long does it take you to type 500 lines a day? I do it in about 2.5 hours a day. If you are new, about 6 hours a day or more. 
Legal transcription training can help you become a successful legal transcriptionist. You can then can work from home or in an office and earn a lot of benefits. As a legal transcriptionist, you are required to listen to an attorney's dictation and transcribe it into detailed and accurate legal documents. A legal transcriptionist is paid either by the line, by the page or by the hour and can earn an annual income of $30,000 to $40,000. What Legal Transcription Entails. As a legal transcriptionist, you will receive a digital recording of dictation by an attorney that you have to listen to and then transcribe accurately.
There are several training institutes that provide legal transcription training. You can do these courses online or by attending regular classes in person. A legal transcriptionist is paid either by the line, by the page or by the hour and can earn an annual income of $30,000 to $40,000. What Legal Transcription Entails. As a legal transcriptionist, you will receive a digital recording of dictation by an attorney that you have to listen to and then transcribe accurately.
No licensing is required to be a successful transcriptionist; however, transcription companies prefer hiring professionals who are certified in transcription, especially when it comes to medical or legal transcription. This does not mean that you can’t be a transcriptionist without training. There have been many transcriptionists who have learned the tricks of the trade on the job. General transcription is a field that requires little training partly due to the fact that it doesn't involve a specialized vocabulary. 1 If you are not a certified transcriptionist then transcription companies might hesitate in assigning you live work straight away. 2  They may wish to test your skills, and have you do a demo tape first.
In order to be a successful transcriptionist, it is necessary that you have a quick typing speed. Transcription can be a time-consuming thing, and people will find it grueling if they can’t type at a fast enough speed. So before diving into transcription, make sure that you will be able to handle these factors. English Language Skills. English language skills are another thing a person needs to do well in the transcription world. A person needs to type up transcripts with proper punctuation as well as a lack of misspelled words. Clients want transcripts that are easy to read, and they might not be so easy to read if they’re filled with errors
A few companies that offer work from home opportunities for medical transcription do have typing standards even if they are using a pay-by-the-piece model. They believe in offering their clients the highest standards of work and believe that only the best typists can fulfill their clients demands. Virtually anyone with training as a medical transcriptionist and the tools to do the job can set up their own freelance operation, regardless of typing speed. However, typing speed affects the amount of work a freelancer can commit to.
Typing skills are a necessity when it comes to transcription. The faster you type, the more business can you individually handle. As a transcriptionist you would be a using a pair of foot pedals which would be connected to your computer. 1 If you are not a certified transcriptionist then transcription companies might hesitate in assigning you live work straight away. 2  They may wish to test your skills, and have you do a demo tape first.
Speed. While most transcriptionists can type at least 50 words per minute (wpm), there is not an official typing speed requirement for this profession. Transcriptionists who work with time-sensitive projects usually type 65 to 75 wpm. Some transcriptionists who complete overflow and non-crucial work type an average of 40 to 45 wpm, according to The General Transcription Business Guide. 
Though transcription at first glance seems like easy and quick work, it is actually anything but. There are many skills a person needs to do transcription, and if they don’t have them they probably won’t last long in the transcription world. So before diving into transcription, make sure that you will be able to handle these factors. English Language Skills. English language skills are another thing a person needs to do well in the transcription world. A person needs to type up transcripts with proper punctuation as well as a lack of misspelled words. Clients want transcripts that are easy to read, and they might not be so easy to read if they’re filled with errors