LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. noun. The definition of caste is a system of hierarchical social classes, or a specific social class of people. 1  When you are of a high social status, this is an example of your caste. 2  The Brahmins are an example of a caste in the Hindu culture. b. The social position or status conferred by a system based on castes: lose caste by doing work beneath one's station. 1  A specialized level in a colony of social insects, such as ants, in which the members, such as workers or soldiers, carry out a specific function.
A caste system is a social system based on ascribed statuses, which are traits or characteristics that people possess as a result of their birth. Ascribed statuses can include race, gender, nationality, body type, and age. A caste system ranks people rigidly. No matter what a person does, he or she cannot change castes. 
The caste system in India is a system of social stratification which has pre-modern origins, was transformed by the British Raj, and is today the basis of reservation in India. It consists of two different concepts, varna and jﾄ》i, which may be regarded as different levels of analysis of this system. The Caste system does not demarcate racial division. The Caste system is a social division of people of the same race.. Various sociologists, anthropologists and historians have rejected the racial origins and racial emphasis of caste and consider the idea to be one that has purely political and economic undertones.
Several characteristics distinguish a caste system. The first is the tendency toward endogamy, meaning that people marry within the same caste exclusively. Caste mobility is also extremely rare; one cannot transform from a laborer to a scholar except in very rare circumstances, for example. It is permissible to move from one caste to another for example by virtue of marriage, a woman from lower caste can go to upper caste family. But like any merit based system, it is difficult to go up and easy to fall down. 6. God did not create everybody and everything homogeneous nor all people's actions are same.
A paradigmatic, ethnographic example is the division of Indian society into social groups. Historically, the caste system in India has consisted of thousands of endogamous groups called Jatis or Quoms and Biradaris (among Muslims). The caste system in Sri Lanka is a division of society into strata, influenced by the textbook Varnas and Jﾄ》i system found in India. Ancient Sri Lankan texts such as the Pujavaliya, Sadharmaratnavaliya and Yogaratnakaraya and inscriptional evidence show that the above hierarchy prevailed throughout the feudal period.
Definition of Caste. A caste is a social category to which a person belongs involuntarily (one's social status is ascribed); a caste contrasts with a social class. A caste system, then, is a social structure in which people belong to such social categories; historically, an example is the caste system of India. In sociology, a caste system describes one form of social stratification
The Caste system in Sri Lanka is a division of society into strata, similar to the Jﾄ》i system found in India. Yezidi society is hierarchical. In Yemen there exists a hereditary caste, the African-descended Al-Akhdam who are kept as perennial manual workers. Various sociologists have reported caste systems in Africa. The caste system in Sri Lanka is a division of society into strata, influenced by the textbook Varnas and Jﾄ》i system found in India. Ancient Sri Lankan texts such as the Pujavaliya, Sadharmaratnavaliya and Yogaratnakaraya and inscriptional evidence show that the above hierarchy prevailed throughout the feudal period.
A caste system is a type of social structure which divides people on the basis of inherited social status. Although many societies could be described in this way, within a caste system, people are rigidly expected to marry and interact with people of the same social class. India has a well known example of a caste system, although various forms of caste systems can be found in many other cultures as well. It is permissible to move from one caste to another for example by virtue of marriage, a woman from lower caste can go to upper caste family. But like any merit based system, it is difficult to go up and easy to fall down. 6. God did not create everybody and everything homogeneous nor all people's actions are same.