Simple cuboidal epithelium is a type of tissue that is found lining parts of organs and ducts in the body. Its structure allows for absorption and diffusion in those areas. Learn more about this tissue and quiz yourself at the end. It is a single layer thick and made of cube-shaped cells. This type of tissue is found lining parts of the body such as the kidney tubules and walls of respiratory bronchioles. The cells of simple cuboidal epithelium are specialized for diffusion and absorption. To unlock this lesson you must be a Study.com Member.
Simple cuboidal epithelium is a type of epithelium that consists of a single layer of cuboidal (cube-like) cells. Simple cuboidal cells are found in single rows with their spherical nuclei in the center of the cells and are directly attached to the basal surface. Simple ciliated cuboidal cells are also present in the respiratory bronchioles.
Cuboidal epithelia are epithelial cells having a cube-like shape; that is, their width is approximately equal to their height. They may exist in single layers (simple cuboidal epithelium) or multiple layers (stratified cuboidal epithelium) depending on their location (and thus function) in the body.
A cuboidal epithelial cell found in the lining of the terminal and the respiratory bronchioles of the lungs. Clara cells are nonciliated, and they secrete surfactant, like the type II alveolar epithelial cells found deeper in the bronchial tree. 
Cuboidal epithelium is a type of tissue in animal anatomy. It is a very important type of tissue in the human body. Cuboidal epithelia are found inside the kidneys, in parts of the eye and the thyroid, in the ovaries and testes, in parts of the brain and lungs, and in the ducts of exocrine glands. Cuboidal epithelium is only one type of epithelial tissue in the body. Simple cuboidal epithelial tissue has the function of secretion and absorption, or releasing and taking in chemicals as needed. Like all epithelium, it also has a protective function. Simple cuboidal epithelium is also responsible for producing egg cells and sperm cells.
Lesson Summary. Simple cuboidal epithelium is a type of epithelial tissue found in the body. It is a single layer thick and made of cube-shaped cells. This type of tissue is found lining parts of the body such as the kidney tubules and walls of respiratory bronchioles. The cells of simple cuboidal epithelium are specialized for diffusion and absorption. To unlock this lesson you must be a Study.com Member.
Simple Cuboidal Epithelium. Simple cuboidal epithelium. The cells of this type of tissue can withstand more trauma than simple squamous epithelia and are adapted for diffusion and secretion. This is one of the specializations found in epithelial tissues. Simple cuboidal epithelium is found in organs that are specialized for secretion, such as salivary glands and thyroid follicles, and those that are specialized for diffusion, such as the kidney tubules. As its name implies, this tissue consists of a single layer of cuboidal cells on the basement membrane. 
Simple cuboidal epithelia are found in the bronchioles of the lungs. The simple cuboidal epithelium are cube-shaped cells that line various surfaces and cavities throughout the body, including the thyroid gland. Simple cuboidal epithelia line the nephron, or the basic structural unit of the kidney. Simple cuboidal epithelial tissue has the function of secretion and absorption, or releasing and taking in chemicals as needed. Like all epithelium, it also has a protective function. Simple cuboidal epithelium is also responsible for producing egg cells and sperm cells.
Other similar posts. Simple cuboidal epithelia are epithelial cells in a single layer of cubelike cells with large, spherical central nuclei. Simple cuboidal epithelia are found on the surface of ovaries, the lining of nephrons, the walls of the renal tubules, and parts of the eye and thyroid. On these surfaces, the cells perform secretion and absorption.
These cuboidal cells have large, spherical and central nuclei. Simple cuboidal epithelia are found on the surface of ovaries, the lining of nephrons, the walls of the renal tubules, and parts of the eye and thyroid. On these surfaces, the cells perform secretion and absorption. Simple cuboidal cells are found in single rows with their spherical nuclei in the center of the cells and are directly attached to the basal surface. Simple ciliated cuboidal cells are also present in the respiratory bronchioles.