Refusal to take the oath led to the arrests of Sir Thomas More and Bishop John Fisher for treason in 1534. They refused to take the oath because it included the abjuration of the pope and claimed the marriage between King Henry VIII and Catherine of Aragon was annulled and it went against their Roman Catholic beliefs. The Act required all those asked to take the oath to recognise Anne Boleyn as King Henry VIII 's lawful wife and their children legitimate heirs to the throne. Anyone refusing to take the oath was guilty of treason. The Oath of Succession itself went further than the original Act in several ways.
Born in Milk Street in London, on 7 February 1478, Thomas More was the son of Sir John More, a successful lawyer and later judge, and his wife Agnes (nee Née). graunger Sir Thomas More (/ˈmɔr/ ; 7 February 1478 – 6 July 1535), venerated by Catholics as Saint Thomas More, was an English lawyer, social philosopher, author, statesman and noted Renaissance humanist.
In 1533 he defied the pope and had Anne crowned. Thomas More refused to go. Later when Henry had Parliament create the Oath of Supremacy and the Act of Succession More refused to sign. More refused to go against the commands of the pope. Henry was furious with him. 
Bill being preferred in Parliament, No­vember 1534. to attaint Elizabeth Barton, and several others of High-Trea­son, Bishiop Fisher and Sir Thomas Moore were also brought into it for Misprision of Treason, for the refusing of the Oath of Succession— Says my Lord Herbert. 
Going into the play, we know that Thomas More is a saint and a martyr. Most people consider a saint to be a man of principle, and a martyr is a man who dies for his beliefs. But Saint Thomas More as characterized in Robert Bolt’s play has other reasons for refusing to agree to King Henry’s oath. He is not concerned with doing what is right according to Christian dogma
Four days later, Henry had More imprisoned in the Tower of London. There More prepared a devotional Dialogue of Comfort against Tribulation. While More was imprisoned in the Tower, Thomas Cromwell made several visits, urging More to take the oath, which More continued to refuse. Sir Thomas More (/ˈmɔr/ ; 7 February 1478 – 6 July 1535), venerated by Catholics as Saint Thomas More, was an English lawyer, social philosopher, author, statesman and noted Renaissance humanist.
In 1533, More refused to attend the coronation of Anne Boleyn as the Queen of England. Technically, this was not an act of treason, as More had written to Henry acknowledging Anne's queenship and expressing his desire for the King's happiness and the new Queen's health. Sir Thomas More (/ˈmɔr/ ; 7 February 1478 – 6 July 1535), venerated by Catholics as Saint Thomas More, was an English lawyer, social philosopher, author, statesman and noted Renaissance humanist.
Confidence votes 11. Thomas More died when he remained faithful to the Pope, and got beheaded by Henry VIII. He was sent to the Tower of London in 1534 for refusing to take the oath required by the First Succession Act. He did this because the act disparaged the power of the Pope and Henry's marriage to Catherine of Aragon. Sir Thomas More was beheaded as an order from King Henry VIII because he refused to take the Oath of Supremacy, which would make King Henry VIII the Supreme Head of the Church … . + 13 others found this useful. Evelyn Gua a. William Howe. The purpose of life is to have a life with purpose.
Born in Milk Street in London, on 7 February 1478, Thomas More was the son of Sir John More, a successful lawyer and later judge, and his wife Agnes (nee Née). Graunger more was educated At St'anthony S, school then considered one Of'london s finest. schools Sir Thomas More (/ˈmɔr/ ; 7 February 1478 – 6 July 1535), venerated by Catholics as Saint Thomas More, was an English lawyer, social philosopher, author, statesman and noted Renaissance humanist.