1 Next add your ingredients: the compost and kelp or molasses. 2  Let the tea brew for about 24 hours. 3  Make sure the opening to the air pump is distributed evenly (cheapest is an air stone) and secured to the bottom, so it does not get pushed to the top overnight. 4  This will keep the tea sufficiently aerobic.
Temperature and Compost Tea. I was wondering if there are parameters for the temperature of compost tea. I am doing a 5 gallon bucket outside Oregon and the temperature is between 50 to 60 degrees. In addition to an air pump with an air stone, I put in an aquarium heater set at 64 degrees.
Hi Tony, Brewing seems to be time related to a certain extent. Based on Marc Remillards book Compost Tea Making these are: 24 hrs @ 75, 36 hrs @70, 42 hrs @ 65 and 48 hrs @ 60. I also like to use a aquarium heater to ensure a constant brew temp especially if ambient is cooler at night.
An accepted approach among compost tea enthusiasts is to brew AACT at a similar temperature to where it’s being used, for example; if your root zone temperature is 68°F (20°C), brew the AACT around this temperature. The food source utilized when brewing compost tea can determine the microbe grown.
To make compost tea you just need a covered container, compost, water, and time. I use a cotton pillowcase or a square of unbleached cotton. I move the bundle up and down a few times whenever I walk by the container.
2.38% by volume compost or vermicompost (EWC) per gallon = .38 cups or around half a cup max or about 2 cups in 5 gallons max. 0.5 to 0.75% molasses by volume per gallon = 1.28 to 1.92 tablespoons per gallon. 0.75% is the maximum I use. It is a good bacterial and fungal food.
I was wondering if there are parameters for the temperature of compost tea. I am doing a 5 gallon bucket outside Oregon and the temperature is between 50 to 60 degrees.
To make good compost tea, you need actively managed, mature compost; that is, compost that has been turned a few times and allowed to heat adequately so weed seeds and pathogens have been killed. Worm compost also makes excellent tea, without the hassle of turning or checking the temperature.