Best Answer: Like the Mennonites, the Amish are descendants of the Swiss Anabaptists (1525). The Swiss Anabaptists, called the Swiss Brethren, had their origins with Felix Manz and Conrad Grebel. Here's a start for you,
Amish settled in new areas outside of Pennsylvania, including Ohio, Indiana, Iowa and Illinois. Some of the early Amish assimilated with society and in some cases became more modern Mennonite congregations. The last Amish settlement in Europe disappeared in 1937. The segment of Amish society which chose the more conservative path became known as the Old Order. The Old Order Amish are found in 28 states and Canada, and number approximately 250,000 today.
The Amish are among the most easily recognizable peoples in North America. For some, they may seem a living remnant of a bygone era, or a people stubbornly clinging to outdated ways. In fact, throughout their history Amish have had to adapt to persecution, societal change, and other external influences. The last Amish settlement in Europe disappeared in 1937. The segment of Amish society which chose the more conservative path became known as the Old Order. The Old Order Amish are found in 28 states and Canada, and number approximately 250,000 today.
The Amish are known for simple living, plain dress, and reluctance to adopt many conveniences of modern technology. The history of the Amish church began with a schism in Switzerland within a group of Swiss and Alsatian Anabaptists in 1693 led by Jakob Ammann. Those who followed Ammann became known as Amish. In the early 18th century, many Amish and Mennonites emigrated to Pennsylvania for a variety of reasons. The Amish movement takes its name from Jakob Ammann (c. 1656–1730), a Swiss Mennonite leader. Ammann believed Mennonites, the peaceful Anabaptists of the Low Countries and Germany, were drifting away from the teachings of Menno Simons and the 1632 Dordrecht Confession of Faith.
The Amish came from southern Germany and northern Switzerland and were persecuted in the 17th century. They settled in Pennsylvania, because William Penn, who was granted Pe … nnsylvania by the king of England, wanted to establish a commonwealth with religious freedom. He urged the Amish to come to his land.
Report Abuse. The Amish, are direct decendents of the Anabaptists(not to be confused with the Anti Baptist) who lived in 16th century Europe. In 1740, the first group of Amish, came to America & settled in Lancaster, Pa. In 1752, they settled in what became Berks County, Pa. The Amish are known for their plain & simple living. They were & some still are, reluctant to adopt modern conveniences
The Amish came from southern Germany and northern Switzerland and were persecuted in the 17th century. They settled in Pennsylvania, because William Penn, who was granted Pe … nnsylvania by the king of England, wanted to establish a commonwealth with religious freedom. 