Jeremy Wade, extreme angler, with one of his monsters.. Jeremy Wade -- traveler, TV presenter, insane angler. As host of TV documentary series “River Monsters,” Wade travels the globe to seek out things that populate fishermen’s tales and non-fishermen's nightmares. It all starts with the fish, says Wade.
That River Monsters rod is designed for live-bait presentations, most likely drifting bait under a bobber. I'm sure it's plenty tough and can handle big fish just fine; it's just that the action isn't the best for frogging. Posted. Hi All! I'm new to the forum and fairly new to fishing as a serious hobby. Sure, I used to go fishing with my dad as a little kid, but now I find myself doing research and going out to the lakes by myself. I watch a lot of Gene's FlukeMaster vids on YouTube and I have learned a TON from what I've seen.
What kind of fishing gear does Jeremy Wade use? Hint: You probably won't find it at your local bait & tackle shop! 
River Monsters became one of the most watched, most successful programmes in Animal Planet's history, and one of the most viewed series on Discovery Channel too. In the US, only the shortened version is shown and some animals Jeremy shows are just cut off. River Monsters travels worldwide with Suffolk-born British host, biologist, adventurer and extreme angler Jeremy Wade to explore rivers and lakes to uncover the creatures behind local folklore and harrowing tales of monster fish.
Fishing Tip-Have the Right Gear. Trying to catch a 400-pound river monster with a single-handed reel is a recipe for disaster! Jeremy Wade explains that choosing the right fishing equipment can make the difference between victory and defeat. 01:10. Comments (0). Trying to catch a 400-pound river monster with a single-handed reel is a recipe for disaster! Jeremy Wade explains that choosing the right fishing equipment can make the difference between victory and defeat.
I recently emailed Jeremy Wade of the TV show River Monsters on Animal Planet to ask his advice on certain factors when trekking in the Amazon. Jeremy is an accomplished angler and biologist with much experience in the Brazilian Amazon. My questions were as follows: 
The South Bend Sporting Goods “River Monster” line-up of branded fishing rods, reels and equipment combination packages will debut at the July 2011 ICAST Fishing Tackle Show in Las Vegas, Nevada. Rods, reels and combos will have an MSRP range of $11.99 to $49.99. Animal Planet’s “River Monsters” show has completed its third season following extreme angler and biologist Jeremy Wade as he seeks out the most unusual or unheard of fresh-water monster fish in some of the world’s most extreme locations.
River Monsters is a British and American wildlife documentary television programme produced for Animal Planet by Icon Films of Bristol, United Kingdom. River Monsters travels worldwide with Suffolk-born British host, biologist, adventurer and extreme angler Jeremy Wade to explore rivers and lakes to uncover the creatures behind local folklore and harrowing tales of monster fish.