Others are formed when the summit of a volcano collapses into an empty magma cavern that had stored the magma prior to eruption. Shield Volcanoes. Shield volcanoes, formed when large flows of lava spread rapidly from central vents or rows of vents, are the largest volcanoes. Because the lava moves rapidly and spreads out in a broad area, it does not form a tall, steep cone. Instead, shield volcanoes are dome-shaped mountains with broad bases and gentle slopes. Stratovolcanoes, or composite volcanoes, get their name from the different layers, or strata, of ash and lava that form them. Most stratovolcanoes are irregularly shaped mountains formed by material ejected from both a central vent and other vents on the sides of the mountain.
A volcano is a vent or fissure in Earth's crust through which lava, ash, rock and gases erupt. A volcano is also a mountain formed by the accumulation of these eruptive products. Let's take a look at how volcanoes form: Earth's crust is 40 to 250 miles (64 to 402 kilometers) thick. Lava Plateaus: Shield volcanoes may erupt along lines of fissures rather than a central vent spilling liquid lava in successive layers. Over time as these layers form broad plateaus such as the Columbia Plateau. These plateaus are often cut by deep canyons that expose the layers of rock.
These volcanoes are formed by low-silica (i.e. basic) lava. Shield volcanoes are built out of layers of lava from continual eruptions (without explosions). Because the lava is so fluid, it spreads out, often over a wide area. A volcano is a mountain where lava (hot, liquid rock) comes from a magma chamber under the ground. Most volcanoes have a volcanic crater at the top. When a volcano is active, materials come out of it.
Lava flow during a rift eruption at Krafla, Iceland in 1984. Lava is the molten rock expelled by a volcano during an eruption and the resulting rock after solidification and cooling. This molten rock is formed in the interior of some planets, including Earth, and some of their satellites. The source of the heat that melts the rock within the earth is geothermal energy. Pillow lava is the lava structure typically formed when lava emerges from an underwater volcanic vent or subglacial volcano or a lava flow enters the ocean. However, pillow lava can also form when lava is erupted beneath thick glacial ice.
Volcanoes are formed when magma from within the Earth's upper mantle works its way to the surface. At the surface, it erupts to form lava flows and ash deposits. Over time as the volcano continues to erupt, it will get bigger and bigger. LAVA-Lava is the liquid rock (magma) that flows out of a volcano. Lava glows red hot to white hot as it flows. ACTIVE VOLCANO-An active volcano is one that erupts regularly. DORMANT VOLCANO-A dormant volcano is one that has not erupted for many years, although there is still some activity deep inside.
Scientists recognize four main types of volcanoes: stratovolcanoes, shield volcanoes, cinder cones, and ashflow calderas. Stratovolcanoes. Stratovolcanoes, or composite volcanoes, get their name from the different layers, or strata, of ash and lava that form them. Most stratovolcanoes are irregularly shaped mountains formed by material ejected from both a central vent and other vents on the sides of the mountain.
1 Felsic lavas (dacites or rhyolites) tend to be highly viscous (not very fluid) and are erupted as domes or short, stubby flows. 2  Viscous lavas tend to form stratovolcanoes or lava domes. 3  Lassen Peak in California is an example of a volcano formed from felsic lava and is actually a large lava dome. 
Composite volcanoes are formed when both lava and tephra erupt from a central vent. The materials pile up in alternate layers around the vent and form a towering, cone-shaped mountain. Composite volcanoes include Japan's Mount Fuji; Mayon Volcano in the Philippines; and Italy's Vesuvius. Lava is the name for magma that has reached the earth's surface. When lava comes to the surface, it is red hot and may have a temperature of more than 2012 F. (1100 C). Highly fluid lava flows rapidly down a volcano's slopes. Sticky lava flows more slowly.
Shield volcanoes are formed when a large amount of free-flowing lava spills from a vent and spreads widely. The lava gradually builds up a low, broad, dome-shaped mountain. The famous Mauna Loa in Hawaii is a shield volcano. Lava is the name for magma that has reached the earth's surface. When lava comes to the surface, it is red hot and may have a temperature of more than 2012 F. (1100 C). Highly fluid lava flows rapidly down a volcano's slopes. Sticky lava flows more slowly.