A property disclosure statement must be provided by a seller in many areas of the world when a property enters escrow. The seller must disclose any problems that he or she is aware of in connection with the property, such as the presence of known toxins, faulty wiring, and other issues.
SELLER’S PROPERTY CONDITION DISCLOSURE STATEMENT (This disclosure shall be completed by the seller. This is a disclosure required by law.
A residential disclosure statement is a disclosure statement made by a home seller to a buyer while selling a home. A home seller disclosure statement should contain all identified issues with the property and other relevant property information, like faulty wiring and presence of lead based paint.
The seller disclosure statement shall be only a disclosure made by the seller, and not any real estate licensee involved in the transaction, and shall not be construed as a warranty of any kind by the seller or any real estate licensee involved in the transaction.
This statement is not a warranty of any kind by the seller or a warranty or representation by any listing real estate broker, any selling real estate broker or their agents. The buyer is encouraged to address concerns about the condition of the property that may not be included in this statement.
A disclosure is something given to the buyer by the seller documenting their knowledge of the property. It is not the same thing as an inspection; because there are things the seller may not be aware of that an inspection brings to light.
A seller disclosure form is a disclosure statement prepared by a seller in compliance with seller disclosure statutes. A seller disclosure form discloses the condition of a property to be sold. A seller has to disclose all relevant and material information known to him/her about the
This statement discloses the sellers knowledge of the condition of the property as of the date signed by the seller and is not a substitute for any inspections or warranties that the buyer may wish to obtain.
When you've found a house you want to buy, you'll ask the seller for a Seller's Disclosure report. This is a form that a seller must give a buyer, which details all physical problems and defects that the seller is aware of. This is like the car lemon law, but for houses.
Seller Disclosure. Documents completed by the seller of a home listing any known issues with the property, as well as any remodel projects completed during the time they owned the home. In most states, the seller is required to provide this disclosure within a few days of mutual acceptance.