Palpitations (pal-pi-TA-shuns) are feelings that your heart is skipping a beat, fluttering, or beating too hard or too fast. You may have these feelings in your chest, throat, or neck. They can occur during activity or even when you're sitting still or lying down. 
A heart palpitation occurs when your heart feels like it's beating irregularly. It might feel like the heart is skipping beats, or is beating faster than usual when you're at rest (not exercising). Sometimes exercise can cause the palpitations to occur: the heart continues to race despite stopping exercise. Rarely, heart palpitations can be a sign of a serious medical condition, such as anemia, thyroid problems or an arrhythmia. (An arrhythmia is an irregular heartbeat caused by a problem with the heart's built-in electrical system.)
Many things can cause palpitations. You may have these feelings even when your heart is beating normally or somewhat faster than normal. Most palpitations are harmless and often go away on their own. However, some palpitations are signs of a heart problem. Sometimes the cause of palpitations can't be found. If you start having palpitations, see your doctor to have them checked.
Palpitations can also be a symptom of a serious or life-threatening condition, such as cardiac arrhythmia. Palpitations are commonly associated with a cardiac conditions, but any condition or disease that causes a rapid heart rate (tachycardia) can result in palpitations. These can include conditions of the respiratory system, the circulatory system, and the gastrointestinal system. An EKG and chest X-ray are also performed if the cause of palpitations is suspected to be due to heart disease or a respiratory disease. Continuous cardiac monitoring is also done to watch for cardiac arrhythmias, which are a common cause of
Heart palpitations can be caused by a variety of factors, including caffeine, exercise, smoking, or stress. Although they can be quite unsettling, most heart palpitations are harmless and resolve on their own without treatment. Rarely, heart palpitations are a sign of a serious condition. Heart palpitations can be caused by a wide variety of things, including: 1  strenuous exercise. 2  caffeine (coffee, tea, chocolate, and cola drinks). 3  nicotine from tobacco products such as cigarettes and cigars. 4  stress, anxiety, fear, or panic. 5  dehydration.
Causes of Heart Palpitations. Many things can cause heart palpitations. In the vast majority of cases, the cause is either related to your heart or is unknown. Non-heart-related causes of palpitations include: 1  Strong emotions such as anxiety, fear, or stress; palpitations often occur during panic attacks. 2  Vigorous physical activity. 3  Caffeine, nicotine, alcohol, or illegal street drugs such as cocaine and amphetamine
Heart Palpitations. A heart palpitation is the sensation that your heart has skipped a beat or added an extra beat. It may feel like your heart is racing, pounding, or fluttering. You may become overly aware of your heartbeat. This sensation is sometimes also felt in the neck, throat, or chest. Heart palpitations can be caused by a wide variety of things, including: 1  strenuous exercise. 2  caffeine (coffee, tea, chocolate, and cola drinks). 3  nicotine from tobacco products such as cigarettes and cigars. 4  stress, anxiety, fear, or panic. 5  dehydration.
Often the cause of your heart palpitations can't be found. Common causes of heart palpitations include: 1  Strong emotional responses, such as stress or anxiety. 2  Strenuous exercise. 3  Caffeine. 4  Nicotine. 5  Fever. 6  Hormone changes associated with menstruation, pregnancy or menopause. 7  Taking cold and cough medications that contain pseudoephedrine, a stimulant