New research in the Journal of Pain reports that ginger is an effective natural anti-inflammatory that helps reduce pain and inflammation. Both raw ginger and heated ginger were used in the study with similar effectiveness.
Directions. 1 Bring 2 cups of water to a boil. Add ginger. Reduce heat to medium low and let ginger sit in the simmering water for 5 minutes. 2. Remove it from heat and strain it out through a kitchen strainer. 3. To serve, combine 1 part ginger syrup to 3 parts sparkling water and serve over ice.
It also helps reduce chronic inflammation, pain and migraines. Ginger has been shown to help treat ulcers, gout and diabetes complications. Gingerol and shogaol, two compounds found in ginger, are found to be the active compounds responsible for ginger’s many health benefits.
Some common diseases associated with inflammation include arthritis, gout and bursitis. Anti-inflammatory medications may reduce inflammation; however, certain herbs such as ginger root can also help lessen inflammation. Always speak with your physician before using herbs for treating any health condition.
- Bring 2 cups of water to a boil in a saucepan. Add the ginger, which should be peeled and finely chopped. Reduce heat to medium-low and let the ginger sit in the simmering water for 5 minutes. – Remove from the heat and let sit for 20 minutes. – Strain the liquid through a fine mesh strainer.
Ginger Ale Recipe for Pain: Reduce chronic inflammation, pain and migraines. Ginger is rich potassium, so important for heart function, and in manganese, a mineral that builds resistance to disease and protects the lining of the heart and circulatory system.
Ginger contains chemicals that may reduce nausea and inflammation. Ginger is safe for most people. Some people can have mild side effects including heartburn, diarrhea, and general stomach discomfort. When ginger is applied to the skin, it may cause irritation.
Ginger contains chemicals that may reduce nausea and inflammation. Researchers believe the chemicals work primarily in the stomach and intestines, but they may also work in the brain and nervous system to control nausea.
Inflammation occurs when your body’s chemicals and white blood cells protect you from infection and foreign substances such as viruses and bacteria, according to the Cleveland Clinic.