Dejah is an unusual given name for women. Dejah is an equally unusual last name for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the birth name popularity of Dejah for girls. Dejah entered the list in 1996 and reached its apex position of #671 in the U.S. in 1999, but is not found in the list currently. (Top 1000 Baby Names Statistics, 2014). Daija, Daijah, Deja and Deyanira are the popular related forms of Dejah.
Seen & Heard. What made you want to look up Jah? Please tell us where you read or heard it (including the quote, if possible). View Seen & Heard Highlights from Around the Site. 
Jah. Proper noun. ( 1 religion) shortened form of Jehovah, God's personal name in the Bible. 2  Often appearing as part of Biblical names as -iah, or Jeho- as in Isaiah, Jeremiah, Jehoshua, and Jehosaphat, and Hebrew words like  hallelujah .
Question: Is the Rastafarian / Rasta god ‘Jah’ the same as the Christian God?. Answer: Rastafarianism, Rastafari, or Rasta is a religious movement originating in Jamaica in the 1930s. 
Biblical Meaning: The name Jah is a Biblical baby name. In Biblical the meaning of the name Jah is: The everlasting. SoulUrge Number: 1. Expression Number: 1. People with this name have a deep inner desire to use their abilities in leadership, and to have personal independence. They would rather focus on large, important issues, and delegate the details.
the everlasting. Dictionaries-Smith's Bible Dictionary-Jah. (Jehovah), the abbreviated form of Jehovah, used only in poetry. It occurs frequently in the Hebrew, but with a single exception, (Psalms 68:4) is rendered Lord in the Authorized Version. 
What does Jah mean in the Bible? One of my friends says he believes that God created all things, but he is always saying thank you, Jah for this day or something along those lines. 
Jah. n. A biblical form of the name of God (Yahweh), used especially in Rastafarianism. 
Nearby & related entries: 1  jaguar. 2  jaguarlike. 3  jaguarondi. 4  jaguarundi. 5  jaguarundi cat. 6  jahan. 7  jahannam. 8  jahbulon. 9  jahiliyyah. 10  jahn, fred. 