1 most mutations that we observe are. 2  harmful (e.g., many missense mutations) or, at best, 3  neutral, for example:  4 silent mutations encoding the same amino acid. 5  perhaps many of the mutations in the vast amounts of DNA that lie between genes.
A mutation is any physical change in the genetic material (such as a gene or a chromosome). A gene that contains a mutation (a change in the base sequence of the DNA) will produce an altered mRNA molecule that will produce an altered sequence of amino acids in the resulting protein.
It can cause a missense mutation, which switches one amino acid in the chain for another. It can cause a nonsense mutation, which results in a shorter chain because of an early stop codon. And a base substitution can also cause a silent mutation, in which the protein's function doesn't change at all.
Missense Mutation. 1  In a missense mutation, a change in one base pair causes a single amino acid to be changed in the resulting protein. 2  The result is called “missense” since the code is now different. 3  In the following example, GGC has been changed to AGC, resulting in a different amino acid.
A point mutation that changes a codon to a synonym (one that codes for the same amino acid) is also known as a synonymous mutation. About 50 genetic diseases have been linked to synonymous mutations, proving that these codon switches can be harmful mutations in some circumstances.
1 A missense mutation is the cause of the disease, sickle cell anemia. 2  The effects of a change in one base pair alters one amino acid in the resulting hemoglobin protein, causing red blood cells to take on a strange shape.
1 Missense-the change in nucleotide leads for a different amino acid. 2  This may have little effect, or it may greatly change the resulting protein. 3  Silent-this type of point mutation is the least harmful as there is no noticeable effect on the protein.
1 A nonsense mutation is the same as a missense mutation except the resulting codon codes for a STOP signal. 2  The result is a premature termination of translation. 3  The protein is shorter than usual and does not contain all the amino acids that it should.
Of the three types of point mutations the most harmful are insertions and deletions. They result in what is known as a frameshift mutation. When a nucleotide base is either inserted or deleted it disrupts the amino acids coded for from the site of the mutation on to the end of the gene.
This type of mutation is a change in one DNA base pair that results in the substitution of one amino acid for another in the protein made by a gene.