Geography (from Greek γεωγραφία, geographia, lit. earth description) is a field study of the lands, the features, the inhabitants, and the phenomena of Earth. A literal translation would be to describe or picture or write about the earth. The first person to use the word geography was Eratosthenes (276–194 BC). Geographers study the spatial and the temporal distribution of phenomena, processes, and features as well as the interaction of humans and their environment. Because space and place affect a variety of topics, such as economics, health, climate, plants and animals; geography is highly interdisciplinary.
Full Definition of GEOGRAPHY. 1. : a science that deals with the description, distribution, and interaction of the diverse physical, biological, and cultural features of the earth's surface. 2. : the geographic features of an area. 3. : a treatise on geography. 4. Definition of GEOGRAPHY for Kids. 1. : a science that deals with the location of living and nonliving things on earth and the way they affect one another. 2.
The Missouri River's source is named by some USGS and other federal and state agency sources, following Lewis and Clark's naming convention, as the confluence of the Madison and Jefferson rivers, rather than the source of its longest tributary (the Jefferson). Sometimes the source of the most remote tributary may be in an area that is more marsh-like, in which the uppermost or most remote section of the marsh would be the true source. For example, the source of the River Tees is marshland. The furthest stream is also often called the headstream.
In this context, a controlled source is in the employment or under the control of the intelligence activity and knows that the information is to be used for intelligence purposes. 1. A person or thing from which something comes into being or is derived or obtained: alternative sources of energy; the source of funding for the project.
source. n. 1. A person or thing from which something comes into being or is derived or obtained: alternative sources of energy; the source of funding for the project. 2. The point of origin of a stream or river
The source or headwaters of a river or stream is the furthest place in that river or stream from its estuary or confluence with another river, as measured along the course of the river. Sometimes the source of the most remote tributary may be in an area that is more marsh-like, in which the uppermost or most remote section of the marsh would be the true source. For example, the source of the River Tees is marshland. The furthest stream is also often called the headstream.
This most common definition of a river source specifically uses the most distant point (along watercourses from the river mouth) in the drainage basin from which water runs year-around (perennially), or, alternatively, as the furthest point from which water could possibly flow (ephemerally). Sometimes the source of the most remote tributary may be in an area that is more marsh-like, in which the uppermost or most remote section of the marsh would be the true source. For example, the source of the River Tees is marshland. The furthest stream is also often called the headstream.
ITS Tutorial School is aiming to provide a content rich portal that will be of aid to both educators and students worldwide. All terms in this dictionary have been rewritten from a wide variety of sources with the emphasis being on precise definitions and explanations that students can use in their study. The resource has been developed in response to my own frustration at there not being any comprehensive Geography dictionaries or glossaries on the web that are free open-access. I believe that restricted/subscription access to dictionary web pages is wrong.
The United States Geological Survey (USGS) states that a river's length may be considered to be the distance from the mouth to the most distant headwater source (irrespective of stream name), or from the mouth to the headwaters of the stream commonly identified as the source stream. Sometimes the source of the most remote tributary may be in an area that is more marsh-like, in which the uppermost or most remote section of the marsh would be the true source. For example, the source of the River Tees is marshland. The furthest stream is also often called the headstream.