two weeks The average lifespan of an adult housefly is approximately 15 to 25 days. 
Best Answer: The average life span of an adult housefly is from 20 to 30 days. The housefly combines a capacity for producing great numbers of young with one of the shortest life cycles known. A few flies in early summer can produce millions of descendants by fall, and as many as ten generations in that single season. 
The Average Life Span of a Fly. The house fly is one of more than 120,000 species of flies in the world. Visage/Stockbyte/Getty Images. Temperature is a large factor in each stage of a fly's life. For example, after hatching from his egg in less than a day, a house fly may spend days or weeks in each of the other stages of development. He'll spend about two to four weeks flying around in his adult body.
The complete life-cycle of a house fly takes from 10 to 21 days. On the average, 12 generations of house flies can be produced in one year. Adult females lay 120-150 tiny white eggs, usually in manure or other warm, moist, decaying organic matter. 
1 Adult: Once the adult house fly hatches from the pupal stage, it has an approximate life span of 15 to 30 days. 2  Females are able to start producing eggs after two days of life and will continue to lay eggs for about a month. 3  Female house flys are usually larger than the males. 1 This process take about three to six days and is where the maggot encases inself in a reddish-brown skin where the final stages of development take place. 2 
The housefly life cycle closely mirrors that of most insects: a basic cycle that begins with an egg, then develops through a larva phase, a pupa phase, and finally, into an adult. During a warm summer -- optimal conditions for a housefly -- the cycle, from fertilized egg to adult, spans a mere seven to 10 days. A new adult housefly has, at most, three months to reproduce before it dies. With so many predators, a housefly's average lifespan is even shorter: 21 days. Luckily for the housefly, the phrase breeding like flies isn't just a figure of speech. Each female can lay up to 900 eggs during her brief life. The very thought of a housefly infestation may prove too disturbing for many homeowner
Life Expectancy of House Flies. Houseflies pass through four distinct stages: egg, larva, pupa and adult. The life expectancy of a housefly is generally 15 to 30 days and depends upon temperature and living conditions. Flies dwelling in warm homes and laboratories develop faster and live longer than their counterparts in the wild. The housefly’s brief life cycle allows them to multiply quickly if left uncontrolled.
These are the four distinct stages in an average house fly's life: 1  Egg: Depending on the size of a female house fly, she can lay up to 500 eggs in a three to four day period. 2  Eggs are white in color and are usually less than half and inch in size. 3  Larvae: Larvae are commonly referred to as maggots. 1 This process take about three to six days and is where the maggot encases inself in a reddish-brown skin where the final stages of development take place. 2  Adult: Once the adult house fly hatches from the pupal stage, it has an approximate life span of 15 to 30 days.
http://creatures.ifas.ufl.edu/urban/flie... Here is another option: The complete life-cycle of a house fly takes from 10 to 21 days. On the average, 12 generations of house flies can be produced in one year. Adult females lay 120-150 tiny white eggs, usually in manure or other warm, moist, decaying organic matter. 