If you drink it you will damage the surface of your mouth and throat. When the bleach reaches your stomach it will react with your stomach acid. The result is an upset stomach and a release of some chlorine gas. The chlorine will do some damage to your throat, lungs, and nose as it escapes.
The treatments described below work only to remove bacteria or viruses from water. If you suspect the water is unsafe because of chemicals, oils, poisonous substances, sewage or other contaminants, do not drink the water. Don't drink water that is dark colored, has an odor or contains solid materials.
The results of drinking bleach depend on several factors, including the concentration and amount of bleach ingested. Drinking a small amount of bleach diluted with water is not likely to cause harm. The EPA recommends adding eight drops of bleach to a gallon of water for disinfection in the event of a flood. However, drinking bleach directly from the bottle leads to burns in the esophagus and potential poisoning. Know More.
The concentration is enough that the water has a slight chlorine (swimming pool) smell and taste and it may lead to a slightly upset stomach, but it should not cause burning or difficulty swallowing. If it does, the concentration of bleach very likely is too high.
If you drink bleach, it oxidizes or burns tissues in your mouth, esophagus, and stomach. According to the NIH (National Institutes of Health), it can cause nausea, chest pain, lowered blood pressure, delirium, coma, and potentially death.
Hou … sehold bleach is sold in a very concentrated form. If you drink it you will experience severe pain, burning of your mouth, esophagus and stomach lining. It can cause severe chemical burns and irritation to the digestive tract and even lead to death. Do NOT induce vomiting, this will only cause further damage to your stomach and throat!!!
Bleach is a poison, I dont think you would die, depends how much you consumed. If you do not feel sick straight away, then I think your going to be okay. None the less, You should not drink bleach. Added: Drinking bleach in small doses (tablespoon) can cause minor damage to esophagus, stomach, and intestines.
What Happens If You Drink Bleach. Sodium hypochlorite removes stains and disinfects because it is an oxidizing agent. If you inhale the vapors or ingest bleach it oxidizes your tissues. Mild exposure from inhalation can result in stinging eyes, a burning throat, and coughing.