A clear quartz crystal, especially a crystal that is really clear/transparent and has happy rainbows inside it, is an absolute joy to look at! One can spend many hours looking inside the crystal and being mesmerized by the intricacy of various shapes and liquid forms. A clear quartz crystal cluster is a wonderful addition to any home or office. Due to its form and crystal essence, a cluster carries the energy of harmony and cooperation. Place your crystal cluster in the living room or home office.
Quartz. Learn about the crystal meanings and metaphysical and healing properties lore of quartz including power, energy and protection. Alternate Names & Name Spellings: Rock Crystal, Crystal Quartz, Universal Crystal, Clear Quartz (which is the stone behind all the shades and colors). Quartz is a stone of clarity which dispels negativity and clears away negative energy. It can be used to purify and clarify on the spiritual, mental, and physical planes. It is powerfully protective because of these properties. Quartz enhances spiritual growth, spirituality and wisdom.
Quartz crystal, or rock crystal as it is sometimes called, is a common crystal composed of silicon dioxide. Clear quartz is the most common, but white or cloudy quartz results when it is grown in places where frost can exist. Quartz is mined in Arkansas, Brazil, Madagascar, and Colombia, as well as in a number of other places.
Amethyst is a popular form of quartz that ranges from a bright to dark or dull purple color. The world's largest deposits of amethysts can be found in Brazil, Mexico, Uruguay, Russia, France, Namibia and Morocco. Sometimes amethyst and citrine are found growing in the same crystal. It is then referred to as ametrine. Milk quartz or milky quartz is the most common variety of crystalline quartz. The white color is caused by minute fluid inclusions of gas, liquid, or both, trapped during crystal formation, making it of little value for optical and quality gemstone applications.
Learn about the crystal meanings and metaphysical and healing properties lore of quartz including power, energy and protection. Quartz is a stone of clarity which dispels negativity and clears away negative energy. It can be used to purify and clarify on the spiritual, mental, and physical planes. It is powerfully protective because of these properties. Quartz enhances spiritual growth, spirituality and wisdom.
Quartz is a Master Healer stone. It is an excellent all purpose crystal healer stone. It is said to amplify healing energy and is used to perform diagnostic healing. It has been used historically to detect food poison. Quartz is a stone of clarity which dispels negativity and clears away negative energy. It can be used to purify and clarify on the spiritual, mental, and physical planes. It is powerfully protective because of these properties. Quartz enhances spiritual growth, spirituality and wisdom.
Crystal Quartz (Rock Crystal) Gemstone meaning. Quartz crystal is a clear variety of quartz that was first found high in the frozen mountains of the Alps. Ancient people believed it was a form of ice crystals that would never melt. It is said to have cooling powers and is a romantic stone. 
Composed of silicon and oxygen (silicon dioxide), Quartz, from the European  quarz , is a key component in a wide array of minerals designated as silicates.. It occurs as prismatic hexagonal crystals in compact masses and druses, as well as in dense fibrous or grainy formations without visible crystals. Clear Quartz is a Seeker Transformer crystal. Seekers contain a crystal energy structure that aligns the natural energy of the crystal to the natural power of the human mind to find the way to new horizons and new capabilities.