The Iliopsoas muscle group is located in the low back and is made up of the Psoas Minor, the Psoas Major, and the Iliacus. (Absent in approximately 40% of the population). Anatomical Attachments: Origin: Attaches to the sides of T12 and L1 and sometimes L2 vertebrae, and the corresponding disc. Iliacus Anatomical Attachments: Origin: Attaches to the superior 2/3 of the iliac fossa, the iliac crest, from the anterior sacroiliac and the iliolumbar ligaments and the base of the sacrum. Insertion: Attaches to the tendon of the psoas major, and the lesser trochanter of the femur. Action: Flexes the thigh.
The psoas major (/ˈsoʊ.əs/ or /ˈsoʊ.aes/ ,æs the word psoas comes from The greek psoa meaning “the loin.”) region is a long fusiform muscle located on the side of the lumbar region of the vertebral column and brim of the lesser. pelvis As part of the iliopsoas, psoas major contributes to flexion in the hip joint. On the lumbar spine, unilateral contraction bends the trunk laterally, while bilateral contraction raises the trunk from its supine position.
Structure [edit]. The psoas major originates along the lateral surfaces of the vertebral bodies of T12 and L1 - L3 and their associated intervertebral discs. The iliacus originates in the iliac fossa of the pelvis. The term iliopsoas (ilio-so-as) refers to the combination of the psoas major and the iliacus at their inferior ends.
Psoas major. The psoas major is a lengthy fusiform (or ‘spindle-shaped’) muscle that can be found on the side of the lumbar region of the vertebral column. It is also adjacent to the brim of the lesser pelvis area. It connects the iliacus muscle to the iliopsosas. In some individuals, the muscle is assisted by the psoas minor. The lumbar plexus is what separates the superficial part from the deep part. The psoas major assists with the flexion and external rotation of the hip joint. It is also considered part of the group of muscles that are known as the hip flexors. If this muscle tightens, the action may result in lower back pain
Structure [edit]. The psoas major is divided into a superficial and deep part. The deep part originates from the transverse processes of lumbar vertebrae I-V. The superficial part originates from the lateral surfaces of the last thoracic vertebra, lumbar vertebrae I-IV, and from neighboring intervertebral discs. The lumbar plexus lies between the two layers. It is joined by the iliacus, psoas major forms the iliopsoas which is surrounded by the iliac fascia. As part of the iliopsoas, psoas major contributes to flexion in the hip joint. On the lumbar spine, unilateral contraction bends the trunk laterally, while bilateral contraction raises the trunk from its supine position.
The iliopsoas muscle consists of: 1  Psoas major muscle: originates from the 1st to 4th lumbar vertebrae, the costal processes of all lumbar vertebrae and the 12th thoracic vertebrae and inserts at the lesser trochanter of the femur. 2  Iliacus muscle: runs from the iliac fossa to the lesser trochanter. 1
The psoas major muscle is part of the iliopsoas muscle and belongs to the inner hip muscles. He originates from the 1st to 4rd lumbar vertebrae, the costal processes of all lumbar vertebrae and the 12th thoracic vertebrae and inserts at the lesser trochanter of the femur. 
The psoas major is divided into a superficial and deep part. The deep part originates from the transverse processes of lumbar vertebrae I-V. As part of the iliopsoas, psoas major contributes to flexion in the hip joint. On the lumbar spine, unilateral contraction bends the trunk laterally, while bilateral contraction raises the trunk from its supine position.