Weather: Weather of Gulmarg Kashmir is very gentle for lovers of skiing; some of the visitors say it a curry powder, due the geographic location Gulmarg Kashmir always have a heavy snowfall and tourist love it for the quality of snow it provides. Usually Snow begins early December, the lower altitudes of the Tangmarg valley below Gulmarg Kashmir, there is minimal early season rain, and that the first winter snows fall on dry cold ground, assisting accumulation of the early season snow base.
Gulmarg. Taxi from the Airport to Gulmarg or Srinagar to Gulmarg should be 1800 - 2000 Rs (Feb 2015), but if the roads are icy, you will probably only be able to catch the taxi to Tangmarg, at which point you will need to hire a four wheel drive with chains for around 700 Rs. This can end up costing more than it should. Getting around Gulmarg is done mostly by foot or by flagging down a taxi 4wd. If you are staying close to the market and need to get to the Gondola, expect to pay around 100-150Rs for one person, 200Rs for 2 people and 250 Rs for the whole taxi to the gondola (Feb 2015).
We have regular weather information from several resources include the satellite from Indian government and other weather information providers. In extreme cold the temperature can go down to -18 degree Celsius and standard temperature in the month of October to February is in the range of 3 to -18 degree Celsius. Usually Snow begins early December, the lower altitudes of the Tangmarg valley below Gulmarg Kashmir, there is minimal early season rain, and that the first winter snows fall on dry cold ground, assisting accumulation of the early season snow base.
Best Season / Best time to visit Gulmarg. 1  Winter (November to February) is cold with temperature ranging between -4°C to 11°C. 2  Severe snowfall is a feature of this place. 3  The winter season is good for enjoying skiing and enjoying honeymoon in Gulmarg. 1 Winter (November to February) is cold with temperature ranging between -4°C to 11°C. 2  Severe snowfall is a feature of this place. 3  The winter season is good for enjoying skiing and enjoying honeymoon in Gulmarg. 4  Snowfall is a common occurrence.
Gulmarg Kashmir see a huge snowfall on the season and provide limitless powder skiing, you can ski for months in Gulmarg Kashmir without the dearth of powder and adventure as you can have an option to get more and more way out and desired slop in the region. Usually Snow begins early December, the lower altitudes of the Tangmarg valley below Gulmarg Kashmir, there is minimal early season rain, and that the first winter snows fall on dry cold ground, assisting accumulation of the early season snow base.
Gulmarg is a perfect tourist destination for all seasons but the best time to visit is from March to October. Gulmarg is a beautiful hill station where the winter season is very good for enjoying snowfall and indulge in snowboarding and long-run Skiing and various sport sports activities are also held. 1 Winter (November to February) is cold with temperature ranging between -4°C to 11°C. 2  Severe snowfall is a feature of this place. 3  The winter season is good for enjoying skiing and enjoying honeymoon in Gulmarg. 4  Snowfall is a common occurrence.
Srinagar has only two climates, pleasant summers and a very chilly, freezing winters. Rainfalls are very scanty here. The best time to visit Srinagar is from April to October. Srinagar is a beautiful place and a major part of North India tourism. Summers are excellent time for visiting the lakes and beautiful gardens and the natural beauty is at its pinnacle in Srinagar. Best Season / Best time to visit Srinagar. 1  Winter (October to March) accounts for winters with minimum consistently well below 0°C and maximum only about 15°C. 2  Winters are associated with heavy snowfalls.
Gulmarg Kashmir is located at a latitude of 34 degrees North and has a base altitude of 2,650 metres above sea level. Resorts with roughly comparable latitudes are Taos Ski Valley in the USA, and in the southern hemisphere, Portillo in Chile. Usually Snow begins early December, the lower altitudes of the Tangmarg valley below Gulmarg Kashmir, there is minimal early season rain, and that the first winter snows fall on dry cold ground, assisting accumulation of the early season snow base.
Check the Weather in Srinagar, India in October before you book your next holiday. This gives the best indication of the weather in October and includes figures for temperature, sunshine and rainfall. 