IAS is a MRA signatory for testing laboratories, calibration laboratories and inspection bodies. International Accreditation Forum (IAF) MLA – ABs involved in the accreditation of management systems, products, services or personnel. IAS is a MLA signatory for product certification. Pacific Accreditation Cooperation (PAC) MLA – ABs involved in the accreditation of management systems, greenhouse gas validation or verification bodies, product, service and personnel certification.
Search. The IAF is the world association of Conformity Assessment Accreditation Bodies and other bodies interested in conformity assessment in the fields of management systems, products, services, personnel and other similar programmes of conformity assessment. Its primary function is to develop a single worldwide program of conformity assessment which reduces risk for business and its customers by assuring them that accredited certificates may be relied upon. Accreditation assures users of the competence and impartiality of the body accredited.
The terms accreditation and certification are sometimes used interchangeably, however, they are not synonymous. Certification is used for verifying that personnel have adequate credentials to practice certain disciplines, as well as for verifying that products meet certain requirements. 
1 IAS accreditation can be used by companies or organizations to improve the quality of their services or products thereby improving their public image and marketability. 2  Most industries routinely specify that companies maintain accreditation by a nationally recognized accreditation body such as IAS. Pacific Accreditation Cooperation (PAC) MLA – ABs involved in the accreditation of management systems, greenhouse gas validation or verification bodies, product, service and personnel certification.
Products and service furnished by the enrolled location(s). Each state in which the enrolled location(s) provides items and services. LICENSING: Contracts are only awarded to suppliers that have all required state licenses for the competitive bidding area (CBA) and product category. In order to be eligible to be awarded a contract, a bidder must possess the applicable license(s) by the close of the bid window. Bidders must meet all DMEPOS state licensure requirements and other applicable state licensure requirements, if any, for the product category(s) they bid.
BBB accreditation does not mean that the business’s products or services have been evaluated or endorsed by BBB, or that BBB has made a determination as to the business’ product quality or competency in performing services. BBB accredited businesses pay a fee for accreditation review and monitoring for continued compliance and for support of BBB services to the public. BBB Code of Business Practices represents standards for business accreditation by BBB.
Accreditation is when an organization that provides certification, testing and inspection services is assessed by a third party against internationally recognized standards. Today, about 10% of the world’s coffee, 20% of the world’s forests and 40% of white fish comply with one or several sustainability standards (IISD 2010).
The International Accreditation Service (IAS) is a non-profit, public benefit corporation and a leading accreditation body in the United States. Internationally recognized, accreditation by IAS makes it easier to market products and services both inside and outside the United States. Read about IAS in the latest issue of IAS eNews. Register for ISO/IEC Standard 17024:2012 Training, Dec 9-11, in Brea, CA. IAS seeks interested individuals to serve on its Board of Directors.
If a business has been accredited by the BBB, it means BBB has determined that the business meets accreditation standards, which include a commitment to make a good faith effort to resolve any consumer complaints. BBB accredited businesses pay a fee for accreditation review and monitoring for continued compliance and for support of BBB services to the public. BBB Code of Business Practices represents standards for business accreditation by BBB.