Lake Superior, the largest of the Great Lakes, is between Canada and the states of Michigan and Minnesota. Back. The Mississippi River, the largest river in North America, flows from Minnesota to Louisiana, where it empties into the Gulf of Mexico. 
The Great Lakes. A chain of freshwater lakes (Superior, Michigan, Huron, Erie, and Ontario) located in eastern North America, on the Canada-United States border. They form the largest group of freshwater lakes on Earth. Located WEST of the Great Plains and EAST of the Basin and Range; contains the Continental Divide which determines the directional flow of rivers;Contains rugged mountains stretching from Alaska to Mexico with high elevations.
In the middle of the eastern side is a transform boundary with the North American Plate along the San Andreas Fault, and a boundary with the Cocos Plate. The south-eastern side is a divergent boundary with the Nazca Plate forming the East Pacific Rise. The Pacific Plate is an oceanic tectonic plate that lies beneath the Pacific Ocean. At 103 million square kilometers, it is the largest tectonic plate.
Physical Geography. The Atlantic Ocean extends in an S shape from the arctic to the antarctic regions between North and South America on the west and Europe and Africa on the east. 
Rocky Mountains. Located WEST of the Great Plains and EAST of the Basin and Range; contains the Continental Divide which determines the directional flow of rivers;Contains rugged mountains stretching from Alaska to Mexico with high elevations.
The Northwest Coast is the coastal regions of the Pacific Northwest and the Northwest Plateau (also commonly known as  The Interior  in British Columbia and the Inland Empire in the United States) is the inland regions. Definitions based on the historic Oregon Country reach east to the Continental Divide, thus including nearly all of Idaho and parts of western Montana and western Wyoming. Sometimes the Pacific Northwest is defined as being the Northwestern United States, wholly in the United States.
In British Columbia is the Fraser River and the Columbia, 1,200 miles in length; in the Yukon district is the Yukon, which flows into the Pacific Ocean. Two great rivers, the Peace River 1,000 miles, and the Athabaska River, 40 miles in length, drain through a chain of small lakes into the north-west of Hudson’s Bay. On the west, running parallel with the Pacific Ocean, is a continuous belt of broad, high mountains, known as the Corderillas, or Rocky Mountains. These extend from far north in the Yukon, in an almost continuous belt through British Columbia into the United States of America.
There are many, many, many physical features in North America. Some of the major physical features in North America are: 1  Atlantic Ocean. 2  Pacific Ocean. 3  Arctic Ocean. 4  Mississippi River. 5  The Great Lakes. 6  Hudson Bay (Canada). The continent of North America consists of the three large countries of Canada, the United States of America and Mexico, and the smaller countries in Central America and the Caribbean Islands. A physical feature is a natural characteristic on Earth's Surface. That is, lakes, mountains, oceans, rivers, etc
The Pacific Northwest, Natural Features. The Coast Ranges and the Cascade Mountains dominate the terrain of the Pacific Northwest. These two north-south mountain systems run in ridges parallel to the Pacific Coast. Most of the population of the Pacific Northwest lives in the lowlands between these two mountain systems. Another major geographic feature of the Pacific Northwest is the Columbia River, one of the nation s largest rivers. It cuts through a deep gorge in the Cascade Mountains along the border between Washington and Oregon before crossing lower-elevations of the coastal mountains to empty into the Pacific. The Cascade Mountains extend almost due north and south across central Washington, Oregon, and northern California. The mountains lie about 160 to 240 km (about 100 to 150 mi) inland from the Pacific Coast. The higher elevations of the Cascades have a continuous snow cover.