Ralph is furious with Jack, because it was the hunters’ responsibility to see that the fire was maintained. Jack and the hunters return from the jungle, covered with blood and chanting a bizarre song. They carry a dead pig on a stake between them. Jack, obsessed with the idea of killing a pig, camouflages his face with clay and charcoal and enters the jungle to hunt, accompanied by several other boys. On the beach, Ralph and Piggy see a ship on the horizon—but they also see that the signal fire has gone out.
Do you think Jack and Roger are equally responsible for Piggy’s death? 45. How do Jack’s savages treat Sam and Eric? What is the significance of the fact that Roger “edged past the chief, only just avoiding pushing him with his shoulder”? 46.
How does he react this time? Why this change, do you suppose? 4. Why do Ralph and Piggy go to the pig roast? How is their reason prophetic? 5. Chapter 5 1. At first, Ralph was surprised by how clearly he was able to speak and think.
Even Ralph and Piggy, swept away by the excitement, dance on the fringes of the group. The boys again reenact the hunting of the pig and reach a high pitch of frenzied energy as they chant and dance. Suddenly, the boys see a shadowy figure creep out of the forest—it is Simon. Even Ralph and Piggy themselves get swept up in the ritual dance around Jack’s banquet fire. The storm that batters the island after Simon’s death pounds home the catastrophe of the murder and physically embodies the chaos and anarchy that have overtaken the island.
1 No one hands Piggy any meat, and when Jack gives him a hard time about his not helping with the hunt, Simon gives his own food to Piggy. 2  Jack is furious, and yells at Simon to Eat! 3  Damn you!. 4  He basically realizes he has no power over the boys unless they eat the meat he got for them all. 1 The boys have developed a sort of rhythm in their lives that involves the littluns playing together, the biguns (Jack and the choir boys) still hunting pigs, and the other boys (Ralph, Simon, and Piggy) trying to build shelters and keep the signal fire going. 2  BTW, there are sharks in the water beyond the reef.
Most of them accept, despite Ralph’s attempts to dissuade them. As it starts to rain, Ralph asks Jack how he plans to weather the storm considering he has not built any shelters. In response, Jack orders his tribe to do its wild hunting dance. Even Ralph and Piggy themselves get swept up in the ritual dance around Jack’s banquet fire. The storm that batters the island after Simon’s death pounds home the catastrophe of the murder and physically embodies the chaos and anarchy that have overtaken the island.
Are you surprised that he wants to go? Do you think it is a good idea? 3. What is ironic about Piggy[s question, What more can Jack do than he has?_ 4. Piggy grabs the conch and talks to Ralph and the other boys about the alternatives they have. Chapter 5 1. At first, Ralph was surprised by how clearly he was able to speak and think.
(ch 5). Piggy and Ralph, under the threat of the sky, found themselves eager to take a place in this demented but partly secure society. (ch 9). Ralph joins the dance because he gives in to the primal instincts to belong and to kill. The dance evolves slowly over the course of the book. In chapter 4, when the boys first begin their war dance, Ralph’s reaction is telling. He is both jealous and appalled. Ralph watched them, envious and resentful. Ralph feels that as their leader he must do this, but he does not know how. He lost himself in a maze of thoughts that were rendered vague by his lack of words to express them. (ch 5). Ralph struggles to be wise. He is looking for a way to bring order to the group, because none of their attempts have worked.