Hopefully this procedure will help you feel better soon. The Novasure procedure costs anywhere from $500 to $1,200 dollars, depending on where you live and what the other costs of the procedure are attached to this. I hope that this helps you. Please let us know how things turn out. 
Tweet. Endometrial ablation is a medical procedure in which the endometrial layer of the uterus is destroyed. This is usually performed to reduce menstrual flow or stop it completely. This is an evasive procedure that does not require any incisions to be made on the body. The procedure can be performed in a doctor's clinic under anesthesia. However, some types of ablation procedures may have to be performed in a sterilized operating room. It is the doctor's responsibility to choose the endometrial ablation method most appropriate for you.
Cost and Expenses. The cost of endometrial ablation depends on the type of procedure used and whether the procedure is performed in a doctor's clinic or in an operating theatre. In addition to the actual cost of the procedure, you should also consider the cost of anesthesia and other technicalities. The procedure can be performed in a doctor's clinic under anesthesia. However, some types of ablation procedures may have to be performed in a sterilized operating room. It is the doctor's responsibility to choose the endometrial ablation method most appropriate for you.
The cost of endometrial ablation depends on which procedure is performed-less complicated techniques performed in a doctor’s office cost on average $2,700. In hospital, including anesthesia fee, this rises to about $5,500. Success Rate • About 90 percent of women who undergo endometrial ablation have reduced menstrual bleeding. • 45 percent stop having periods altogether. • A hysterectomy is still required in 22 percent of cases.
Thermal ablation is usually the cheapest, and its cost is about $2,700 if performed in a doctor's office and about $5,600 if performed in an operation theatre. The prices may vary from one place to another. The procedure can be performed in a doctor's clinic under anesthesia. However, some types of ablation procedures may have to be performed in a sterilized operating room. It is the doctor's responsibility to choose the endometrial ablation method most appropriate for you.
Finally found out what an endometrial ablation costs. I'm having a thermal ablation done and my out of pocket is about $380. I owe ten percent so the actual cost is about $4000 without insurance. I'm also being given a hysteroscopy and d&c along with the ablation. It is being done in the hospital under general anesthesia. I feel bad for so many women that have had to pay way more than that for this procedure
Cost. The cost of novasure endometrial ablation ranges from $500 to $1200, depending on the kind of surgery and the time taken to recover in the hospital. A major part of the cost goes towards the hospital stay for recuperation. This cost is usually fully covered by insurance companies. The CPT code for novasure endometrial ablation is 58353. You can use this code for insurance purposes or for lab testing or other medical compliance documents. The cost of novasure endometrial ablation ranges from $500 to $1200, depending on the kind of surgery and the time taken to recover in the hospital. A major part of the cost goes towards the hospital stay for recuperation