Despite this, nearly 50% of all Christmas trees grown in Oregon are Noble fir. Grand fir (Abies grandis) is the third most common Christmas species in Oregon, accounting for about 10% of the annual production. This tree is a true fir, like noble fir, but it is cultured or shaped like Douglas-fir. Douglas-fir (Psuedotsuga menziesii), Oregon's state tree, has historically been the primary tree species grown for Christmas trees in the Pacific Northwest. About one-half of all trees produced annually are Douglas-fir. This tree takes 5 to 7 years to bring it to market.
No newly planted tree grows fast enough to please a gardener, but the Douglas fir (Pseudotsuga menziesii) is no slow Joe. A mature Douglas fir is one of the tallest and most majestic trees on the planet, a true giant that shoots up to scrape the sky in a natural setting. The mighty Douglas fir is native to the Pacific Northwest, growing in coastal forests from British Columbia to northern California. Its trunk is tall and ramrod straight, and the tree presents a slender, columnar or pyramidal shape.
Description: Douglas-fir trees, which are also called red firs, Oregon pines, and Douglas spruce, are neither true fir trees nor pines nor spruces! The scientific genus name Pseudotsuga means “false hemlock,” alluding to another kind of tree that Douglas-firs are similar too. 
1 Leaves: Fir trees have needles instead of traditional leaves. 2  The smooth, flexible needles are short, flat and stick up like toothbrush bristles and remain green year-round. 3  Branches: The branches grow in whorls around the tree's trunk to form a pyramid-like shape. 4  The Fir's cones hang from the branches. 
Three Methods: Planting a Pine Trees Seedling Caring for a Pine Tree Seedling Growing Pine Trees from Seeds. Pine trees are evergreen trees that come in many varieties. Young pines need special attention, and need to be guarded rigorously against animals and sun damage during their first few years. 
By Nikki Phipps (Author of The Bulb-o-licious Garden). Growing pine and fir trees from seed can be a challenge to say the least. However, with a little (actually a lot) of patience and determination, it is possible to find success when growing pine and fir trees. Let’s take a look at how to grow a pine tree from seed. 
Nordmann fir, noble fir, Fraser fir and balsam fir are popular Christmas trees, generally considered to be the best for this purpose, with aromatic foliage that does not shed many needles on drying out. Fir Tree redirects here. For the County Durham town, see Fir Tree, County Durham. Firs (Abies) are a genus of 48–56 species of evergreen coniferous trees in the family Pinaceae. They are found through much of North and Central America, Europe, Asia, and North Africa, occurring in mountains over most of the range. Firs are most closely related to the genus Cedrus (cedar)
Noble fir (Abies procera) is Oregon's premier Christmas tree. It commands a higher price than any species, up to twice the value of Douglas-fir. Noble fir is a slower growing tree (6 to 10 years) and much more genetically variable. Douglas-fir (Psuedotsuga menziesii), Oregon's state tree, has historically been the primary tree species grown for Christmas trees in the Pacific Northwest. About one-half of all trees produced annually are Douglas-fir. This tree takes 5 to 7 years to bring it to market.
Overview. Fraser fir trees grow to a height of 30 to 50 feet and spread 15 to 25 feet. Their nearly perfect pyramidal shape makes them ideal lawn specimens. Fraser fir trees are native to the Appalachian Mountains. Water Fraser fir trees regularly during the growing season. Stop watering after the first part of September but allow the trees to receive any natural rainfall. Give them a good watering before the first hard frost and again just after the second hard frost.