Hank /hank/ [1 syll.] as a boys' name is pronounced hank. It is of Old German origin, and the meaning of Hank is home leader. Nickname for Henry. Baseball celebrity Hank Aaron. Hank is a somewhat popular first name for males (#983 out of 1220, Top 81%) and an even more popular last name for all people (#14422 out of 150436, Top 10%). (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the birth name popularity of Hank for boys.
Yep, Hank is the most traditional. Harry is short for Harold... I like Hank better than Henry actually. Those kind of short and gruff masculine names are making a comeback...like Max or Sam or Jack. 
Hank. Origin: Old German. Meaning: “home ruler”. Hank is a common nickname for Henry, although it may be. bestowed upon someone with a totally different name and. can even be used as a given name. Hank TV and Movie Quotes: “The name’s Hank. It’s never Henry. Just Hank.”
(Curiously, at that time, Hank was a diminutive for John.) So how do we get Hank from Henry? Well, one theory says that Hendrick is the Dutch form of the English name Henry. Henk is the diminutive form of Hendrick, ergo, Hank from Henk. Hanks were hugely popular here in the States for many decades, though by the early 90s it no longer appeared in the top 1,000 names for baby boys. But Hank is making a comeback! In 2010, it cracked the top 1,000, settling at 806.
Meaning & History. Originally a short form of Hankin which was a medieval diminutive of JOHN. Since the 17th century in the United States this name has also been used as a diminutive of HENRY, probably under the influence of the Dutch diminutive HENK. A famous bearer is the former American baseball player Hank Aaron (1934-).
Both Hal and Hank are nicknames for Henry, and Hank is one of the  Germanic forms of the name. What is the name hank short for? already exists. already exists as an alternate of this question. exists and is an alternate of. How do you want women to feel when they wear your loungewear? What are the names of Tom Hanks' siblings? What is Tom Hanks childrens name? What is Tom Hanks real name? Is hank short for henry? What was Hank Aaron's ... Wh
Henry is a German name that means 'ruler of the home.' A common nickname for a boy named Henry would be Hank. 
Hank is both a masculine given name and a surname. It is a pet form of the name Henry, influenced by the Dutch name Henk, that is mainly used in the United States. Notable people with the name include: Given name: 1  Hank Aaron (born 1934), Hall of Fame baseball player.
Etymology & Historical Origin-Hank. Most people know that Hank is short for Henry or Harry but it actually started out as a medieval diminutive of John. Hank essentially developed from Hankin where by “Han” was short for Johan (a German and Scandinavian form of John) and “-kin” was a Middle English diminutive suffix. 