Ion-dipole interaction (dipole-ion interaction): A noncovalent attraction between one pole of a bond dipole and an oppositely-charged ion. The δ+ end of the bond dipole is attracted to an anion, and the δ- end of the bond dipole is attracted to a cation.
Ion-Dipole Forces. An ion-dipole force is just what its name says. It is a force between an ion and a dipole molecule. Remember that an ion is an atom that has gained or lost one or more electrons and therefore has a negative or positive charge.
A dipole-dipole force is when the positive side of a polar molecule attracts the negative side of another polar molecule. An ion-dipole force is a force between an ion and a polar molecule. A hydrogen bond is a dipole-dipole force and is an attraction between a slightly positive hydrogen on one molecule and a slightly negative atom on another molecule. Hydrogen bonds are important in the properties of water and in certain biological molecules, such as proteins.
Ion-Induced Dipole Interaction Dipole-Induced Dipole Interaction top Dispersion Forces Interactions between ions, dipoles, and induced dipoles account for many properties of molecules-deviations from ideal gas behavior in the vapor state, and the condensation of gases to the liquid or solid states.
Learn the different intermolecular bonds (including hydrogen bonding, dipole-dipole and ion-dipole forces), their strengths, and their effects on properties, such as boiling and melting points, solubility, and evaporation.
This is a typical ion-dipole interaction. At the molecular level, the ions interact with water molecules from all directions in a 3-dimensional space. This diagram depicts the concept of interaction only.
Best Answer: ion has complete charge so attraction between A-and B+ is called ion-ion interaction. dipole (two pole) is due to existence of PARTIAL positive or negative charge. This charge is due to difference in electro negativity and this charge is represented by DELTA symbol. So the dipole dipole interaction is much less than an ion-ion interaction (in terms of strength).