Ethics Committee. 1  Ethics committees are agencies (some statutory) that are designed to protect people who are directly or indirectly the subjects of, or might be affected by, research. 1 Ethics committees are agencies (some statutory) that are designed to protect people who are directly or indirectly the subjects of, or might be affected by, research.
The review is usually conducted by an organized clinical or research ethics committee (CLINICAL ETHICS COMMITTEES or RESEARCH ETHICS COMMITTEES), sometimes by a subset of such a committee, an ad hoc group, or an individual ethicist (ETHICISTS). See Also Ethics Committees; Peer Review. 
Health Economics. 1  Ethics committees are agencies (some statutory) that are designed to protect people who are directly or indirectly the subjects of, or might be affected by, research. 1 Ethics committees are agencies (some statutory) that are designed to protect people who are directly or indirectly the subjects of, or might be affected by, research.
a body of people delegated to perform some function. ethics committee a group of individuals formed to protect the interests of patients and address moral issues. It normally includes a board member of the institution, a lay person, and an administrator. A member of the clergy may also be included, as well as an ethicist if one is available. The ethics committee often reviews hospital policies and procedures for potential problems and may also reduce the potential for litigation against the institution.
The purpose of the review process is to assure, both in advance and by periodic review, that appropriate steps are taken to protect the rights and welfare of humans participating as subjects in a research study. The regulations provide a list of research categories that may be reviewed in this manner. An expedited review is carried out by the IRB chair, or by their designee(s) from the board membership. Research activity cannot be disapproved by expedited review.
(March 2014). An institutional review board (IRB), also known as an independent ethics committee (IEC), ethical review board (ERB), or research ethics board (REB), is a committee that has been formally designated to approve, monitor, and review biomedical and behavioral research involving humans. The regulations provide a list of research categories that may be reviewed in this manner. An expedited review is carried out by the IRB chair, or by their designee(s) from the board membership. Research activity cannot be disapproved by expedited review.
The review is usually conducted by an organized clinical or research ethics committee (CLINICAL ETHICS COMMITTEES or RESEARCH ETHICS COMMITTEES), sometimes by a subset of such a committee, an ad hoc group, or an individual ethicist (ETHICISTS). 
Definition. 1  Ethics committees are agencies (some statutory) that are designed to protect people who are directly or indirectly the subjects of, or might be affected by, research. 1 Ethics committees are agencies (some statutory) that are designed to protect people who are directly or indirectly the subjects of, or might be affected by, research.