Definition [edit]. Iliotibial band syndrome is one of the leading causes of lateral knee pain in runners. The iliotibial band is a thick band of fascia on the lateral aspect of the knee, extending from the outside of the pelvis, over the hip and knee, and inserting just below the knee. The band is crucial to stabilizing the knee during running, as it moves from behind the femur to the front of the femur during activity
The iliotibial band is a thick band of tissue that begins at the iliac crest in the pelvis, runs down the outer part of the thigh, and crosses the knee to attach into the top part of the tibia or shinbone. The iliotibial (IT) band helps stabilize the outside part of the knee through its range of motion. Picture of the iliotibial (IT) band. When the knee is flexed, the IT band is located behind the femoral epicondyle, a bony outcropping of the femur or thighbone at the knee. The IT band moves forward across the condyle when the knee is extended.
The iliotibial tract, also known as the iliotibial band, is a thick strip of connective tissue connecting several muscles in the lateral thigh. It plays an important role in the movement of the thigh by connecting hip muscles to the tibia of the lower leg. Located on the lateral edge of the fascia lata, the iliotibial tract forms a wide sheath of fibrous connective tissue that surrounds the lateral thigh. A common injury to the iliotibial tract is iliotibial band syndrome (ITBS), a condition caused by the friction of the tract moving across the tissues on the lateral side of the thigh. When the knee flexes, the iliotibial band moves posteriorly over the bony ridge of the lateral condyle of the femur.
The iliotibial band (IT band) is a thick band of fibers that begins at the iliac crest (the border of the most prominent bone of the pelvis) in the pelvis and runs on the lateral or outside part of the thigh until it attaches into the tibia (shinbone). Iliotibial band syndrome describes the pain caused by inflammation of the band as it crosses the lateral condyle of the femur. When the leg is in a straight (known as extended) position, the band fibers are anterior to, or in front of, the condyle (a bony projection on the outer surface of the femur, or thigh bone).
The iliotibial band is a band of fibrous tissue that runs down the outside of the thigh. It provides stability to the knee and hip and helps prevent dislocation of those joints. The band may overdevelop, tighten, and rub across the hipbone or the outer part of the knee. 1 Pain on the outside of the knee or hip. 2  Snapping hip pain as the iliotibial band snaps back and forth over the point of the hip (greater trochanter). 3  Pain that generally disappears as the band is stretched out and becomes more flexible. 4  Pain that improves with rest.
The iliotibial tract or iliotibial band (also known as Maissiat's band or IT Band) is a longitudinal fibrous reinforcement of the fascia lata. The action of the ITB and its associated muscles is to extend, abduct, and laterally rotate the hip. The part of the iliotibial band which lies beneath the tensor fasciae latae is prolonged upward to join the lateral part of the capsule of the hip-joint. The gluteus maximus muscle and the tensor fasciae latae insert upon the tract.
ITB stands for International Tie Breaker.. When a softball game is tied at the end of six innings, the International Tie Breaker rule goes into effect. At the start of each inning, a runner is placed on second base with the intent of accelerating opportunities to score and bringing the game to a speedier conclusion. 
For other uses, see Runner's knee. Iliotibial band syndrome (ITBS or ITBFS, for iliotibial band friction syndrome) is a common injury to the knee, generally associated with running, cycling, hiking or weight-lifting (especially squats). The iliotibial band is a thick band of fascia on the lateral aspect of the knee, extending from the outside of the pelvis, over the hip and knee, and inserting just below the knee.
1 Iliotibial band syndrome is an overuse injury of tissues of the outer thigh and knee. 2  The iliotibial band runs along the lateral or outside aspect of the thigh and is an important structure that stabilizes the outside of the knee as it flexes and extends. Picture of the iliotibial (IT) band. When the knee is flexed, the IT band is located behind the femoral epicondyle, a bony outcropping of the femur or thighbone at the knee. The IT band moves forward across the condyle when the knee is extended.