• Constructive desertion. This means your spouse forced you to leave. • An uncontested no fault divorce based on one year's separation. A limited exception to the one year no fault divorce allows a divorce after six months separation. Under this exception, you must have no minor children of the marriage. You also must have a signed separation agreement. 
Before you can file for di-vorce in Pennsylvania, you and/or your spouse must have resided in the state for at least six months. Then you must prove that there are grounds, or lawfully acceptable reasons, for a divorce. 
Desertion means leaving your husband or wife without his or her agreement and without good reason. d) Two years' separation. You have lived separately for more than two years and your husband or wife consents to the divorce. This is often called a 'no-fault' divorce. You can have had periods of living together as long as they do not add up to more than six months and you have been apart for least two years altogether. e) Five years' separation. You have lived separately for more than five years. Your husband or wife does not need to agree to this
After you’ve met the separation requirement for your state, you can’t automatically be divorced. You must then file for divorce. Some states have waiting periods between the time you file and the time you receive your divorce, even after you’ve lived separately for a significant period of time. Separation as a No-Fault Ground. Most states consider separation a no-fault ground for divorce. When you and your spouse part ways, it’s usually an acknowledgment by both of you that your marriage is over. However, you must still establish that there’s no hope of reconciliation by remaining apart
In Rhode Island and Texas, it is three years, and in Idaho, you must stay separated for five years. Some states, like Illinois, Vermont and the District of Columbia, allow you and your spouse to mutually waive the statutory time period and file for divorce after six months. Separation as a No-Fault Ground. Most states consider separation a no-fault ground for divorce. When you and your spouse part ways, it’s usually an acknowledgment by both of you that your marriage is over. However, you must still establish that there’s no hope of reconciliation by remaining apart
If you and your spouse agree on the terms of separation, the court can grant your divorce in a little more than a month. However, if you and your spouse do not agree, the process may take several months or even years. Divorces are filed in the Superior Court and can take anywhere from one month to several months or years to be granted, depending on the complexity of the case. What You Should Know: 1  Filing a divorce is rarely easy.
A divorce (also called “dissolution of marriage” or “dissolution of domestic partnership”) ends your marriage or domestic partnership (or both if you are both married and in a domestic partnership with your spouse). After you get divorced, you will be single, and you can marry or become a domestic partner again. For married couples to get a legal separation: 1  You can file in California if at least 1 of you is living in California. 2  Once enough time has passed so that you meet the residency requirement for a divorce, you can file an “amended petition” and ask the court for a divorce (if you want a divorce).
You can only apply for divorce in Australia after you have been separated for a period of at least twelve months. If you have been separated, but reconciled for 3 months or more, then the 12 months period starts after the reconciliation. Family law in Australia is no longer fault based. 9. If you do not know the whereabouts of your spouse, you can apply to the Court for the divorce to go ahead. However, you must show the Court that you have tried to contact your spouse. If this is necessary, it will take longer to get the divorce and will cost a little more.