To become a certified public school math teacher, you generally need a bachelor's degree in math or a closely related subject, like accounting or mathematics education. Math teachers can work in public or private schools. Each private school sets its own requirements for math teachers, but most schools will require a minimum of a bachelor's degree.
Because most states require public school teachers to have some teaching experience, bachelor's degree programs usually include an internship or teaching practicum. These opportunities allow students to teach under the supervision of a licensed, professional teacher. Master's Degree Programs. Some states require public school teachers to complete a master's degree in education after they begin teaching. Master's degree programs typically last 2-3 years and cover advanced topics in mathematics and techniques for teaching advanced math.
To begin teaching math in a public secondary school, you’ll need a bachelor’s degree or higher in mathematics, in addition to completing your teacher certification requirements. Math teachers are some of the most sought-after educators in the country. Due to a nationwide shortage of qualified teachers in the field, many states now offer alternative teaching certification programs that place math graduates in the classroom as they work toward completing a degree in education.
High School Math Teacher. High school math teachers teach at the secondary level in public and private schools. Math teachers must have completed a bachelor's degree program and be licensed by their respective state. Private school math teachers generally need a bachelor's degree, but do not need to be licensed. Master's Degree Programs. Some states require public school teachers to complete a master's degree in education after they begin teaching. Master's degree programs typically last 2-3 years and cover advanced topics in mathematics and techniques for teaching advanced math.
Individuals who would like to become math teachers need to have the ability to clarify material in a manner that students of every aptitude level can grasp. Future math teachers also need solid communication skills and listening abilities. The first step in becoming a high school math teacher is completing an undergraduate degree, normally in the subject area. Individuals can earn a degree in mathematics coupled with a teacher training program or a degree in education with a mathematics concentration.
To teach math to students in middle school, junior high school, high school, or college, you’ll need the minimum of a bachelor’s degree. You can expect your degree program to include education along with a concentration in math teaching. 
To become a high school math teacher, individuals must generally pass mathematics subject area and basic skills exams. Like certification requirements, on-going education and state-to-state transfer requirements may differ by state. The first step in becoming a high school math teacher is completing an undergraduate degree, normally in the subject area. Individuals can earn a degree in mathematics coupled with a teacher training program or a degree in education with a mathematics concentration.
Step 2: Get a Teaching Certificate. Individuals who plan to become a high school math teacher must obtain certification in the state where they will be teaching. Aside from a bachelor's degree and student teaching field experience, requirements for certification vary by state. The first step in becoming a high school math teacher is completing an undergraduate degree, normally in the subject area. Individuals can earn a degree in mathematics coupled with a teacher training program or a degree in education with a mathematics concentration.