Definition. Any individual or firm in the business of buying and selling securities for itself and others. Broker/dealers must register with the SEC. When acting as a broker, a broker/dealer executes orders on behalf of his/her client. When acting as a dealer, a broker/dealer executes trades for his/her firm's own account. Securities bought for the firm's own account may be sold to clients or other firms, or become a part of the firm's holdings.
Broker-dealer also includes a person engaged in the regular business of issuing or guaranteeing options with regard to securities not of his own issue. (This is not a complete definition. See Section 25004). A broker is an individual or firm who acts as an intermediary between a buyer and seller, usually charging a commission. A dealer is any person in the business of buying and selling securities for his or her own account, through a broker or otherwise.
Broker-dealer. A broker-dealer (B/D) is a license granted by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) that entitles the licensee to buy and sell securities for its clients' accounts. The firm may also act as principal, or dealer, trading securities for its own inventory. Broker-Dealer. A person or, more often, a firm that acts as a broker for some transactions and a dealer for others. That is, as a broker, he/she conducts transactions on behalf of clients, and, as a dealer, he/she trades on his/her own account. In practice, most brokerages are in fact broker-dealer firms.
Broker-dealers are at the heart of the securities and derivatives trading process. Although many broker-dealers are independent firms solely involved in broker-dealer services, many others are business units or subsidiaries of commercial banks, investment banks or investment companies. When executing trade orders on behalf of a customer, the institution is said to be acting as a broker. When executing trades for its own account, the institution is said to be acting as a dealer. Securities bought from clients or other firms in the capacity of dealer may be sold to clients or other firms acting again in the capacity of dealer, or they may become a part of the firm's holdings.
Broker-Dealer. A person or, more often, a firm that acts as a broker for some transactions and a dealer for others. That is, as a broker, he/she conducts transactions on behalf of clients, and, as a dealer, he/she trades on his/her own account. In practice, most brokerages are in fact broker-dealer firms. broker-dealer. A firm that functions both as a broker by bringing buyers and sellers together and as a dealer by taking positions of its own in selected securities. Many firms that are commonly called brokers or brokerage firms are actually broker-dealers.
Broker-dealer (“BD”) is defined in Corporations Code (“Code”) Section 25004 and means any person engaged in the business of effecting transactions in securities in this state for the account of others or for his own account. A broker is an individual or firm who acts as an intermediary between a buyer and seller, usually charging a commission. A dealer is any person in the business of buying and selling securities for his or her own account, through a broker or otherwise.
Broker-dealer. A broker-dealer (B/D) is a license granted by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) that entitles the licensee to buy and sell securities for its clients' accounts. The firm may also act as principal, or dealer, trading securities for its own inventory. broker-dealer. A firm that functions both as a broker by bringing buyers and sellers together and as a dealer by taking positions of its own in selected securities. Many firms that are commonly called brokers or brokerage firms are actually broker-dealers.
DEFINITION of 'Broker-Dealer'. A person or firm in the business of buying and selling securities, operating as both a broker and a dealer, depending on the transaction. The term broker-dealer is used in U.S. securities regulation parlance to describe stock brokerages, because most of them act as both agents and principals. A brokerage acts as a broker (or agent) when it executes orders on behalf of clients, whereas it acts as a dealer (or principal) when it trades for its own account.