Early examples of the surname include the recordings of Alonzo Monte de Zamora at Nuestra Snora La Antgua, Valladolid, Spain, on February 21st 1580, and Francisco de Zamora, who married Ysable Perez Blanco, at Villapalacio, San Sebastian, Spain, on December 5th 1661. In Spain itself the surname seems to have been recorded in the early days with the preposition 'de' implying that the nameholders were not only 'from Zamora', but may well have been the owners of the estate upon which the city stood.
Best Answer: Zamora Name Meaning and History Spanish: habitational name from the city of Zamora in northwestern Spain, capital of the province which bears its name. Dictionary of American Family Names, Oxford University Press, ISBN 0-19-508137-4 http://www.ancestry.com/facts/Zamora-fam... The first recorded spelling of the family name is shown to be that of Mateo de Zamora, which was dated January 31st 1563, at Nuestra Senora la Antigua, Valladolid, during the reign of King Phillip 11 of Spain, who reigned from 1556 - 1598.
Recorded in the spellings of Zamora, Zamorrann, and Zamorrano, this famous Spanish surname is locational. It derives from the ancient city of Zamora in North West Spain, a place apparently founded by the invading Moors in the 12th century. The name means 'wild olives', and the surname dates back to at least the 16th century and the time of Spains conquest of the southern American continent. In Spain itself the surname seems to have been recorded in the early days with the preposition 'de' implying that the nameholders were not only 'from Zamora', but may well have been the owners of the estate upon which the city stood.
Zamora Surname Recorded in the spellings of Zamora, Zamorrann, and Zamorrano, this famous Spanish surname is locational. It derives from the ancient city of Zamora in North West Spain, a place apparently founded by the invading Moors in the 12th century. The first recorded spelling of the family name is shown to be that of Mateo de Zamora, which was dated January 31st 1563, at Nuestra Senora la Antigua, Valladolid, during the reign of King Phillip 11 of Spain, who reigned from 1556 - 1598.
Recorded in the spellings of de Zamora, Zamora, and Zamorano, this is a Spanish surname. It originates from the city of Zamora in North west Spain. The name derives from the Arabic 'azemur' meaning 'the wild olives', a reminder of the period around the 10th century when Spain, or a large part of it, was occupied by Moorish invaders from Morocco.
Hebrew Meaning: The name Zamora is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Zamora is: Praised. Spanish Meaning: The name Zamora is a Spanish baby name. In Spanish the meaning of the name Zamora is: From Zamora. SoulUrge Number: 8. Expression Number: 11. People with this name have a deep inner desire to lead, organize, supervise, and to achieve status, power and wealth.
Meaning of Zamora. Hebrew name. In Hebrew, the name Zamora means-Praised.. Other origins for the name Zamora include-Hebrew, Spanish, Spanish.The name Zamora is most often used as a girl name or female name. Hebrew Name Meaning-Praised. 
The first recorded spelling of the family name is shown to be that of Mateo de Zamora, which was dated January 31st 1563, at Nuestra Senora la Antigua, Valladolid, during the reign of King Phillip 11 of Spain, who reigned from 1556 - 1598. Surnames became necessary when governments introduced personal taxation. In Spain itself the surname seems to have been recorded in the early days with the preposition 'de' implying that the nameholders were not only 'from Zamora', but may well have been the owners of the estate upon which the city stood.
Early examples of the surname include the recordings of Alonzo Monte de Zamora at Nuestra Snora La Antgua, Valladolid, Spain, on February 21st 1580, and Francisco de Zamora, who married Ysable Perez Blanco, at Villapalacio, San Sebastian, Spain, on December 5th 1661. The first recorded spelling of the family name is shown to be that of Mateo de Zamora, which was dated January 31st 1563, at Nuestra Senora la Antigua, Valladolid, during the reign of King Phillip 11 of Spain, who reigned from 1556 - 1598.