By Qiu Gui Su. The seventh lunar month in the traditional Chinese calendar is called Ghost Month. On the first day of the month, the Gates of Hell are sprung open to allow ghosts and spirits access to the world of the living. The spirits spend the month visiting their families, feasting and and looking for victims.
A: The Hungry Ghost Festival is celebrated by Chinese in many countries — it begins the night of the 15th day of the seventh lunar month. On that night, some Chinese believe that the gates of heaven and hell open and the dead are released and allowed to roam the earth for a month.
A solemn holiday, the Ghost Festival represents the connections between the living and the dead, earth and heaven, body and soul. The entire seventh month of the Chinese calendar is called the Ghost Month, a month in which ghosts and spirits are believed to emerge out from the lower world to visit earth.
In year 2010, The chinese hungry ghost month will begin on the 10th of August and end on the 7th of September. The Chinese ghost month or commonly known as the Hungry Ghost festival falls on the 7th Month of the chinese lunar calendar. At this time, the gate of hell is opened so the spirit and soul of the otherworld is free to roam on ours.
The Ghost Festival begins on the first day of the seventh lunar month. On that day, the gates of hell are wide open and an army of hungry ghosts comes out to haunt the livings, eat Chinese food, drink rice wine, and collect ghost money. People visit temples and burn incense on the first day of the Ghost Festival.
In the Chinese calendar (a lunisolar calendar), the Ghost Festival is on the 15th night of the seventh month (14th in southern China).
Updated :- In year 2015, The chinese hungry ghost month will begin on 14th August 2015 and will end on the 12th September 2015. In year 2014, The chinese hungry ghost month will begin on 27th July 2014 and will end on the 24th August 2014.
In Chinese culture, the fifteenth day of the seventh month in the lunar calendar is called Ghost Day and the seventh month in general is regarded as the Ghost Month (鬼月), in which ghosts and spirits, including those of the deceased ancestors, come out from the lower realm.