Management Information System (MIS) report forms are used to collect pertinent drug and alcohol data from pipeline operators. In accordance with 49 CFR 199.119 and 49 CFR 199.229, pipeline operators subject to 49 CFR part 199 regulations with more than 50 covered employees are required to submit an MIS report annually.
A MIS report is a management information system report and an Excel spreadsheet is a way of presenting such a report. But this question is unanswerable as written. These reports also help to answer  'what-if' questions like what would be the effect on cash flows of  a company if the credit term is changed for its customers etc.    MIS reports also support decision making and it helps to integrate  the decision maker and the quantitative model being used.
The meaning of MIS report generation is Management Information  System reports generated. This can include financial reports,  inventory reports, or performance reports that … are computer  generated for review. These reports also help to answer  'what-if' questions like what would be the effect on cash flows of  a company if the credit term is changed for its customers etc.    MIS reports also support decision making and it helps to integrate  the decision maker and the quantitative model being used.
sujith Jan 19th, 2007 MIS is management information system.And MIS report is reporting information of reports like efficiency of wing or a department of a company.IF we take BPO (Call center)sector as eg. MIS reports are prepared to support decision making/analysing the trend eg., market/product/competitor etc., The reports for a organisation can be classified in large as follows. Production and productivity MIS, Sales & Planning MIS, Group/Dept., MIS.
It doesn't matter how relevant or accurate information in an MIS report is if it's hard for people to read and understand. How you present the information is important. Three of the most common types of business information in MIS reports are proportions, amounts, and rates of change. The kind of information you want to present determines which presentation type you should use for your report. For example: Proportions-Proportions include sales by product or sales over a period of time. There can be as many types of MIS reports as there are divisions within a business. For example, information about sales revenue and business expenses would be useful in MIS reports for finance and accounting managers. Warehouse managers would benefit from MIS reports about product inventory and shipping information.
MIS is management information system.And MIS report is reporting information of reports like efficiency of wing or a department of a company. IF we take BPO (Call center)sector as eg. MIS consists of efficiency of agents,Avg time taken hold time etc ..and passing this to the mangement level for their analysis. MIS reports are prepared to support decision making/analysing the trend eg., market/product/competitor etc., The reports for a organisation can be classified in large as follows. Production and productivity MIS, Sales & Planning MIS, Group/Dept., MIS.
The term MIS is often used in the business schools. Some of MIS contents are overlapping with other areas such as information system, information technology, informatics, e-commerce and computer science. Therefore, the MIS term sometimes can be inter-changeable used in above areas. The terms management information system (MIS), information system, enterprise resource planning (ERP), and information technology management are often confused. Information systems and MIS are broader categories that include ERP.
A Management Information System (MIS) focuses on the management of information systems to provide efficiency and effectiveness of strategic decision making. The concept may include systems termed transaction processing system, decision support systems, expert systems, and executive information systems. The terms management information system (MIS), information system, enterprise resource planning (ERP), and information technology management are often confused. Information systems and MIS are broader categories that include ERP.
MIS Reports. A Management Information System is a system that provides information needed to manage organizations efficiently and effectively. Provides financial information to all Financial Managers in the Organization Provides reports with fixed and standard formats – Hard and soft copy reports Strategic Plan or Corporate Policies – Contains major financial objectives and often projects financial needs. Accounting MIS.