HiPos value recognition-but only one in nine organisations tell these individuals they're HiPo and just 11 per cent of businesses ask their HiPos to make a reciprocal commitment to the copany in return for the investment in their careers. HOW TO: RETAIN YOUR BEST STAFF by Gulf Business. , complex, three-tier architecture with, browser used, transaction-based, on-line case management workflow management IT system called Semaphore IT security experts tasks, support infrastructure design) to carry out.
Hypo-: Prefix meaning low, under, beneath, down, or below normal, as in hypoglycemia (low blood sugar) and hyposensitivity (undersensitivity). The opposite of hypo-is hyper-. 
HIPO. HIPO for hierarchical input process output is a popular 1970s systems analysis design aid and documentation technique for representing the modules of a system as a hierarchy and for documenting each module. 
hypo-, hyp-, prefix meaning under, below, beneath, deficient, or, in chemistry, lacking oxygen: hypochlorite, hypodermic, hypodontia. 1. Prefix meaning deficient, below normal. 
The World's most comprehensive professionally edited abbreviations and acronyms database. All trademarks/service marks referenced on this site are properties of their respective owners. The Acronym Finder is ©1988-2015, Acronym Finder, All Rights Reserved. 
What made you want to look up hipo? Please tell us where you read or heard it (including the quote, if possible). 
The noun HYPO has 2 senses: 1. a compound used as a fixing agent in photographic developing. 2. a piston syringe that is fitted with a hypodermic needle for giving injections. Familiarity information: HYPO used as a noun is rare. Dictionary entry details.
A prefix that means beneath or below, as in hypodermic, below the skin. It also means less than normal, as in hypoglycemia, having a level of sugar in the blood that is less than normal. 2. a stimulus or boost. 3. to stimulate by or as if by administering a hypodermic injection; boost: to hypo a car by installing a bigger engine. [1900–05; by shortening of hypodermic; sense “stimulate” perhaps by association with hype 1; see-o ].
The common hippopotamus is semiaquatic, inhabiting rivers, lakes and mangrove swamps, where territorial bulls preside over a stretch of river and groups of five to 30 females and young. During the day, they remain cool by staying in the water or mud; reproduction and childbirth both occur in water. The word hippopotamus is derived from the ancient Greek ἱπποπόταμος, hippopotamos, from ἵππος, hippos, horse, and ποταμός, potamos, river, meaning horse of the river.