Putting an un in front of a word changes the word's meaning entirely. In fact, it makes it mean the opposite. You probably already knew that unhappy just means not happy, but you may not have realized that putting an un in front of a word completely changes its meaning. That's the function of the un prefix. A prefix is a type of word that goes in front of another word to change its meaning. But before we discuss prefixes, we need a little background about the words they change. Take the following group of words, for example.
For example, in the word imperfect, im is the prefix that is added to the root wo … rd, perfect.. In this instance, im has a negative meaning, changing the meaning of the word perfect from its definition meaning without flaw to the word imperfect, meaning, essentially not without flaw.. A prefix is a word part added to the  beginning of a word to create a new word with a different  meaning.    Examples: refill, undo,  incomplete, precooked   …  (Letters added to the end of a root or word are a suffix.)
When added to the word distribution, which prefix creates a word meaning “bad distribution”? mal-col-hyper-sys-. When added to the word distribution, the prefix mal-creates a word meaning “bad distribution”. Question. When added to the word distribution, the prefix mal-creates a word meaning “bad distribution”. Added 131 days ago|6/8/2015 3:33:11 AM. This answer has been confirmed as correct, not copied, and helpful.
- A letter or a group of letters added to the end of a root or base word to change its meaning, Root. - the form of a word after all affixes are removed. (Generally, prefixes and suffixes change the meanings of roots, but it is usually the suffix that denotes the part of speech.). 
A prefix is an affix which is placed before the stem of a word. Adding it to the beginning of one word changes it into another word. For example, when the prefix un-is added to the word happy, it creates the word unhappy. Particularly in the study of languages, a prefix is also called a preformative, because it alters the form of the words to which it is affixed. Prefixes, like other affixes, can be either inflectional, changing the syntactic category, or derivational, changing either the lexical category or the semantic meaning. The word prefix is itself made up of the stem fix (meaning attach, in this case), and the prefix pre- (meaning before), both of which are derived from Latin roots.
A prefix is a series of letters, or a word, that is added to the  beginning of a word and changes the meaning. For example, in the  word midnight, mid is the prefix. Edit. A prefix is a word part added to the  beginning of a word to create a new word with a different  meaning.    Examples: refill, undo,  incomplete, precooked   …  (Letters added to the end of a root or word are a suffix.)
A prefix is a syllable (or two) or a word added to a root/base with  that changes the word's meaning. A suffix is at the end.    Example:   Pregame (Pre=before so … before the game)   Countable (able= can so can be counted). + 60 others found this useful. Kayla Cash. A prefix is a dialing code. OR A prefix can also be a letter or group of letters added to the beginning of a word to make a new word. A suffix is much the same, but is added … on to the end of a word instead