Major Brain Regions. The fore-brain is the largest part of the brain which consists of the cerebrum, thalamus and the hypothalamus. The cerebrum is further divided into two hemispheres, the right hemisphere and the left hemisphere.
The Cerebrum: The cerebrum or cortex is the largest part of the human brain, associated with higher brain function such as thought and action. The cerebral cortex is divided into four sections, called lobes: the frontal lobe, parietal lobe, occipital lobe, and temporal lobe.
The most interesting fact about brain regions and their functions is that right side of the brain controls the physical activities performed by the left half of the body and the left half of the brain controls the activities performed by the right side of the body.
The brain consists of three main regions: Cerebrum, Cerebellum and the Medulla Oblongata (Brain Stem). The Cerebrum is the largest part of the brain that controls thought, me … mory and the senses. The Cerebellum is involved in the coordination of voluntary motor movement, balance and equilibrium and muscle tone.
Brain is the central part of the nervous system which governs the functions of various organs in the body. It is quite interesting to know what are the different regions of the brain and how these regions function.
Areas of the Brain and their Functions. The brain is divided into lobes as illustrated above and below: Frontal Lobes. The frontal lobes are part of the Cerebral Cortex and are the largest of the brain's structures. They are the main site of so–called 'higher' Cognitive functions.
The cerebral cortex is divided into sensory, motor and association areas. Sensory areas receive sensory input, motor areas control movement of muscles. Association areas are involved with more complex functions such as learning, decision making and complex movements such as writing.
The numbers superimposed on the above brain images are what constitute the Brodmann's map of cytoarchitectonics. Brodmann assigned numbers to various brain regions by analyzing each area's cellular structure starting from the central sulcus [the boundary between the frontal and parietal lobes].
1 FUNCTIONAL AREAS OF OUR BRAIN. 2  The oral instruction is The visual instruction is. “ 3  Say Hello”} DUPipeline_QISnippet_FirstGood_Snippet_v1: {},{-1|-1|1|The study of the functional areas of our brain is important to understand the functions of left and right segments.