Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: I believe the reason is that when you mow the grass during the day the moister in the grass is evaporated faster from te constant exposure to the sun. when you pick up a blade of grass after five hours in the sun, it's dead. the cut part looks like its been cut two weeks ago. but because the grass is cut at night there's no sun so the moister evaporates slower. only drying the tip so when you look at the lawn it looks like a well kept lawn. its green instead of green-ish tan.
Don’t mow your grass during droughts. Cut grass loses lots of moisture through cut blades and turns brown if you don’t water it. So don’t cut. Grumpy’s rule during hot, dry summers is, don’t cut the grass until it rains two days in a row. Cut your grass at the highest recommended height for your grass. 
1 Actually, when the sun is at its peak, mowing can stress your lawn. 2  Your grass is busy photosynthesizing and trying to keep in moisture. 3  Cut off the tips of the grass in the heat of the day, and you’ll practically hear it whimper. 4  Evening: Morning and lunchtime are out, which brings us to late afternoon/early evening. Mowing the grass: what time of day is best? 1  Morning: First off, your lawn is likely to be wet in the morning, thanks to dew. 2  Noon: What about noon? 3
Water as early in the morning as you can, when possible. Watering early in the morning will ensure that your lawn dries completely before nightfall. A wet lawn at night, on a regular basis, can lead to fungus and disease problems. Also, it’s cooler and less windy in the morning, so you have less evaporation, which will save money on your water bill and take less time to get the water on your lawn.
I think if you use a rule of thumb to mow while the lawn isn't wet, in high heat of day, and not to water during high heat directly after mowing is the best way to go. Not everyone has the luxury of mowing in the morning and watering in the evening. You can mow in the evening and water at night too. I don't live in hell (I'm guessing that was a reference to the south or south west). I live in New England and if you have a healthy lawn the cool spring and summers makes grass grow rapidly
The general rule is to cut one-third of the grass height when mowing your lawn. For example, if the grass looks best at 2 inches, mow it when it is 3 inches high. If a mowing session is missed, raise the height of the mower to avoid cutting the lawn too short. A few days later, cut the grass at the normal height. Avoid scalping the
Report Abuse. If you mow when it is hot out during the day, the lawn will be more likely to get scorched and look like straw. Think about it, not only does the lawn have to deal with losing 1/3 it's height, now its got to deal with the scorching hot sun at the same time. but because the grass is cut at night there's no sun so the moister evaporates slower. only drying the tip so when you look at the lawn it looks like a well kept lawn. its green instead of green-ish tan.
The lawn grows better, if cut in the morning or heat of day it will brown up and die. At night it has cool conditions to heal a bit before the heat hits. Source(s): He may still be rude, but it is better for the lawn. but because the grass is cut at night there's no sun so the moister evaporates slower. only drying the tip so when you look at the lawn it looks like a well kept lawn. its green instead of green-ish tan.
1 Morning: First off, your lawn is likely to be wet in the morning, thanks to dew. 2  And mowing a wet lawn is asking for trouble. 3  You can rip up grass more easily when it is wet, and lawn disease is more likely to spread when your blades and the lawn are wet. 4  So morning is out. Mowing the grass: what time of day is best? 1  Morning: First off, your lawn is likely to be wet in the morning, thanks to dew. 2  Noon: What about noon? 3  Evening: Morning and lunchtime are out, which brings us to late afternoon/early evening.