1 Tissues – Groups of cells that are similar in appearance and function, for example: 2  Epidermis is the single exterior layer that protects the stems, leaves, flowers, and roots. 3  The outside surface of the epidermis tissue is usually covered with a waxy substance called cutin, which reduces water loss. In reviewing plant physiology, plant cells are grouped into tissues based on similar characteristics, then into five distinct structures (organs).
Plant morphology represents a study of the development, form, and structure of plants, and, by implication, an attempt to interpret these on the basis of similarity of plan and origin.. There are four major areas of investigation in plant morphology, and each overlaps with another field of the biological sciences. These two systems are common to nearly all vascular plants, and provide a unifying theme for the study of plant morphology. By contrast, the reproductive structures are varied, and are usually specific to a particular group of plants.
Many fungi are superficially plant-like organisms. They grow visible structures that resemble plants or plant parts. On a microscopic level, plants and fungi both have cell walls, a feature that metazoan (animal) cells lack. Fungi and animals share a molecule called chitin that is not found in plants. Fungi and many invertebrate animals use this complex carbohydrate for structural purposes. In fungi, chitin is the structural component of the cell walls.
Characteristics of Fungi and Plants. Both the plant and fungus kingdoms have some common characteristics. First, they are both eukaryotic, meaning they belong to the Eukarya domain and that their cells contain a nucleus and membrane-bound organelles. Plants, such as trees, flowers, and ferns, are eukaryotic, non-motile organisms that use photosynthesis to get energy. Remember that photosynthesis is a process that converts sunlight and carbon dioxide into oxygen and sugar. While both plants and fungi have cell walls, the cell walls in plants are made of cellulose.
Tissues, organs and organisms. Some plants and animals are just a single cell, but most of us are not. A living plant or animal is called an organism and is made up of lots of cells all working together. Some of these cells are all of the same type, collectively they are called a tissue. 
Plasmodesmata-Plasmodesmata are small tubes that connect plant cells to each other, providing living bridges between cells. Plasma Membrane-All living cells have a plasma membrane that encloses their contents. In prokaryotes and plants, the membrane is the inner layer of protection surrounded by a rigid cell wall. These membranes also regulate the passage of molecules in and out of the cells. Ribosomes-All living cells contain ribosomes, tiny organelles composed of approximately 60 percent RNA and 40 percent protein. Cell Wall-Like their prokaryotic ancestors, plant cells have a rigid wall surrounding the plasma membrane. It is a far more complex structure, however, and serves a variety of functions, from protecting the cell to regulating the life cycle of the plant organism.
The plant morphologist goes further, and discovers that the spines of cactus also share the same basic structure and development as leaves in other plants, and therefore cactus spines are homologous to leaves as well. This aspect of plant morphology overlaps with the study of plant evolution and paleobotany. These two systems are common to nearly all vascular plants, and provide a unifying theme for the study of plant morphology. By contrast, the reproductive structures are varied, and are usually specific to a particular group of plants.
Plant cells do, however, have a number of other specialized structures, including a rigid cell wall, central vacuole, plasmodesmata, and chloroplasts. Although plants (and their typical cells) are non-motile, some species produce gametes that do exhibit flagella and are, therefore, able to move about. Cell Wall-Like their prokaryotic ancestors, plant cells have a rigid wall surrounding the plasma membrane. It is a far more complex structure, however, and serves a variety of functions, from protecting the cell to regulating the life cycle of the plant organism.
Vascular plants (from Latin vasculum: duct), also known as tracheophytes (from the equivalent Greek term trachea) and also higher plants, form a large group of plants that are defined as those land plants that have lignified tissues (the xylem) for conducting water and minerals throughout the plant. 1 Vascular plants have vascular tissues which distribute resources through the plant. 2  This feature allows vascular plants to evolve to a larger size than non-vascular plants, which lack these specialized conducting tissues and are therefore restricted to relatively small sizes.
Plant cells have certain distinguishing features, including chloroplasts, cell walls, and intracellular vacuoles. Photosynthesis takes place in chloroplasts; cell walls allow plants to have strong, upright structures; and vacuoles help regulate how cells handle water and storage of other molecules. eBook