Fees to Renew Your NC Driver's License. Depending on your age and the duration of your NC driver's license, you will have to pay the renewal fee of $4 per year: 1  18 to 65 years old: 8 years. 2  66 years old and above: 5 years.
You may contact the DMV in regards to renewal by mail, Contact Us. If you are requesting a duplicate license because of a name change: First, change your name with the Social Security Administration. Please allow 24-36 hours for this change to be updated before you visit DMV.
The online renewal is a step by step process that may require you to renew in person if any of the criteria is not met. Renew Your North Carolina Driver's License. To continue to drive legally in North Carolina, you must renew your driver's license before it expires. The North Carolina Division of Motor Vehicles (DMV) handles all driver license renewal applications.
RALEIGH. Now you can renew your North Carolina driver’s license online – and when you do, you’ll get a redesigned artifact that supposedly won’t fade or fall apart in your wallet. The state Division of Motor Vehicles quietly added the license renewal option to its website (ncdot.gov/dmv/online) last week.
The NC DMV will send you a renewal card approximately 60 days before your driver's license expires. However, you can renew your driver's license up to 180 days before its expiration date.
If you're eligible to renew by mail, you'll only receive a temporary driver's license. You will need to visit your local NC DMV office to obtain your permanent North Carolina license within 60 days of your return. You must have: 1  A permanent and verifiable residential address in North Carolina.
RALEIGH. Now you can renew your North Carolina driver’s license online – and when you do, you’ll get a redesigned artifact that supposedly won’t fade or fall apart in your wallet. The state Division of Motor Vehicles quietly added the license renewal option to its website (ncdot.gov/dmv/online) last week.
Now you can renew your North Carolina driver’s license online – and when you do, you’ll get a redesigned artifact that supposedly won’t fade or fall apart in your wallet. The state Division of Motor Vehicles quietly added the license renewal option to its website (ncdot.gov/dmv/online) last week.