Credit History and Score Requirements. For those interested in applying for an FHA loan, applicants are now required to have a minimum FICO score of 580 to qualify for the low down payment advantage, which is currently at around 3.5 percent. If your credit score is below 580, however, you aren't necessarily excluded from FHA loan eligibility. 
The lowest credit score to buy a house or refinance your mortgage is 500. These new requirements for both FHA and VA went into effect in 2010. 1  Fannie Mae requires a minimum score of 620. 2  Freddie Mac requires a minimum score of 620. 3  FHA requires a minimum score of 500. 4  VA requires a minimum score of 500. Borrowers with a score above 580 can refinance up to a 97.5% loan-to-value on a rate and term refinance. And up to 85% cash out refinance with a FICO score above 580. If you're score is below 580 new FHA changes require a maximum loan-to-value of 90% for a rate and term refinance. And up to 75% cash out refinance with FICO score below 580. VA allows veterans to buy a home with no money down with
For FHA the minimum credit score is a 580 according to the FHA. Most lenders will not lend to borrowers with scores under a 620-640. I know of a few that will lend down to a 580 credit score, if you want some help locating one. FHA will normally require a minimum credit score of 580. This is in contrast to Lenders such as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which look for at least 620. Private Financing is available to those with a poor credit score that will not qualify for a Conventional or FHA loan.
Minimum FICO Scores for a Mortgage. You hold the cards when you call a mortgage lender or broker, until it's time to reveal your credit score. The future of your mortgage loan and the ownership of the home you have in mind depends on this three-digit score. Keep in mind that the minimum FICO score you need to get a mortgage loan is ultimately the decision of your individual lender. The lender may choose to be more lenient or more strict than usual. Required Score. According to Bankrate, the lowest acceptable score to get a mortgage loan is about 620, as of 2010. The minimum score to get a mortgage loan with the best rates available, as of 2010, is about 730 according to Guy Cecala, who is the publisher of a mortgage newsletter called Inside Mortgage Finance..
Assumable loans add value to a home in a rising mortgage rate environment. A third program for borrowers with less-than-perfect credit scores is the FHA home loan. Official FHA guidelines state that a 500 FICO score is required to get approved, but many lenders will underwrite to a minimum 580 FICO or better. FHA loans are assumable, as well. 
An FHA loan has lenient credit score requirements. The minimum credit score required is 500, but your down payment must be at least 10%. If your credit score is over 580, then you can get an FHA loan with a down payment of 3.5%. As of 2015, there is at least one lender approving FHA loans for borrowers with scores down to 550, with an LTV maximum of 90%. For borrowers with sub-620 scores, the lenders have tougher requirements. While there is a minimum credit score required to qualify for a home loan, there is not a minimum credit score required. Private Mortgage Interest (PMI) is generally required when a borrower has less than a 20% equity stake in the home.
Although higher scores are always preferable, FHA policy requires a minimum FICO score of 580 for a 3.5 percent down payment. With a credit score between 500 and 580 the down payment must be 10 percent. The U.S. Department of Agriculture has a home loan program for which you may qualify as well. 
The minimum credit scores listed here are in effect for most FHA home loans for single family residences with a few exceptions which include (but are not limited to) Title 1 HECM loans and HOPE For Homeowners loans. Always ask an FHA loan expert or your local FHA lender about your credit score and what you qualify for. 