No one pays federal income tax on more than 85 percent of his or her Social Security benefits based on Internal Revenue Service (IRS) rules. If you: 1  file a federal tax return as an individual and your combined income* is. 2  between $25,000 and $34,000, you may have to pay income tax on up to 50 percent of your benefits. This usually happens only if you have other substantial income (such as wages, self-employment, interest, dividends and other taxable income that must be reported on your tax return) in addition to
Generally, if social security benefits were your only income, your SSB benefits are not taxable and you probably do not need to file a federal income tax return. Whether you have to file a tax return (or pay tax) depends, in part, on your filing status, deductions, amount & type ofincome. There are no such things as start and stop ages, not having to pay because of retirement or on social security or working from home or a student.
Some people have to pay federal income taxes on their Social Security benefits. This usually happens only if you have other substantial income (such as wages, self-employment, interest, dividends and other taxable income that must be reported on your tax return) in addition to your benefits.
For 2014, Dependents who are not 65 or older or blind, who have earned income more than $6,100, must file their own return. Income levels required to file a return for those 65 and over or blind are higher. You do not include their earned income on your taxes. If they earned less than $6,200 in the year, they do not have to file a return, but may wish to do so to recover any withheld income taxes. 
When seniors must file. If you are unmarried and at least 65 years of age, then you must file an income tax return if your gross income is $11,700 or more. However, if you live on Social Security benefits, you don't include this in gross income.
For non-dependent taxpayers, you will need to file a return if your gross income meets or exceeds the filing threshold for your filing status. The 2012 filing threshold for a single (non-married) individual is $9,750 (for married individuals filing a joint return this threshold increases to $19,500). If you earn less than the filing threshold for your filing status and had income taxes withheld from your paycheck, you may still wish to file a return to receive a refund of all income taxes paid. Note: you will not receive a refund of any social security and Medicare taxes that were withheld.
Even if you receive Social Security benefits, you will have to file a tax return and pay taxes if you have outside income from different sources. These income sources include work wages, self employment earnings, and dividends from life insurance policies and investments. You do not file taxes if Social Security benefits are your only income. However, if you have other forms of income, there’s a possibility you owe taxes on your Social Security disability benefits. Depending on how much income you have, more than half of your Social Security benefit amount could be subject to taxe
1 If children are otherwise required to file a tax return and their only income consists of interest, dividends and capital gains (unearned income), parents may elect to include the child's income on their own tax returns and avoid a separate filing. Example-When to File. Johnny is 17 years old and is claimed as a dependent on his parents' tax return. He earned $100 in interest income from a bank account in his name (unearned), $1,500 working part-time in a gas station (earned), and $200 mowing lawns (self-employment).