Feel free to download a copy of the child support / child maintenance calculator by clicking here: child support / child maintenance calculator. If you would like a web preview of the child support / child maintenance calculator before downloading it, click here. It should assist you whether you reside in Cape Town or any other province in South Africa. You can also download the quick 3 step calculator by clicking here. Whenever Advocate Muhammad Abduroaf is approached to assist in a child support of child maintenance matter, he always advises his clients to first fill in the child support / child maintenance calculator before he proceed with the maintenance matter.
Child maintenance calculator. Use the calculator to agree on a child maintenance amount if you’re arranging it yourselves, or to get an idea of the statutory amount the government would work out for you (including collection and application fees). Don’t use the calculator if you have a ‘1993 scheme’ or ‘2003 scheme’ case
Use the calculator to agree on a child maintenance amount if you’re arranging it yourselves, or to get an idea of the statutory amount the government would work out for you (including collection and application fees). Don’t use the calculator if you have a ‘1993 scheme’ or ‘2003 scheme’ case. The rules used will depend on whether the case is managed by the Child Support Agency (CSA) or the Child Maintenance Service. If you have a CSA case that was opened before March 2003, visit gov.uk for more information.
Child maintenance calculator. If you’re trying to agree on an amount for your family-based arrangement, our calculator can give you an indication of the amount that you could expect to pay or receive. This calculator works out child maintenance for statutory service cases opened after March 2003. The rules used will depend on whether the case is managed by the Child Support Agency (CSA) or the Child Maintenance Service.
1 My Child Maintenance Calculator displays more of the inputs in the calculation, such as the level of gross income entered or the level of pension contributions so both parents can be assured of reasonable accuracy. 2  And if not, it can be quickly corrected. 1 My Child Maintenance Calculator automatically converts the results into a clear PDF format which can be emailed directly to your inbox so you have a record of the result. 2  Even better, you can ask the calculator to email the calculation to your co-parent, lawyer or mediator.
The website of Child Maintenance Options has a Child maintenance calculator where you can work out how much child support you’d like to pay. If you arrange child maintenance between you using a family-based arrangement, you’re free to decide the amount one parent pays the other. How your income affects how much you pay. There are different rates of child maintenance according to the paying parent’s gross weekly income (which means how much you receive before things like tax and National Insurance are taken off). 1  Nil rate: the rate you pay if your gross weekly income is less than £7.
Check the child maintenance rates before you use the calculator. Start now. This calculator works out child maintenance for statutory service cases opened after March 2003. The rules used will depend on whether the case is managed by the Child Support Agency (CSA) or the Child Maintenance Service. If you have a CSA case that was opened before March 2003, visit gov.uk for more information.
In order to claim for maintenance, you must first determine the reasonable needs of the child on a monthly basis. There is no hard and fast rule, but generally the child’s share of the common expenses in the household is determined by allocating one-part per child and two-parts per adult or older child. 
This Child Maintenance Calculator can be used by parents in England & Wales as a tool to help them in discussions about the level of child support to be agreed after separation. It does not matter whether the parents are married, divorced, civil partners or co-habitants. 1 My Child Maintenance Calculator automatically converts the results into a clear PDF format which can be emailed directly to your inbox so you have a record of the result. 2  Even better, you can ask the calculator to email the calculation to your co-parent, lawyer or mediator.