The American Marketing Association defines Integrated Marketing Communications (IMC) as “a planning process designed to assure that all brand contacts received by a customer or prospect for a product, service, or organization are relevant to that person and consistent over time.”. 
Marketing Communications-Meaning and its Process. Marketing communications is essentially a part of the marketing mix. The marketing mix defines the 4Ps of marketing and Promotion is what marketing communications is all about. It is the message your organization is going to convey to your market. You need to be very particular about different messages you are going to convey through different medium
Integrated Marketing Communications is a simple concept. It ensures that all forms of communications and messages are carefully linked together. At its most basic level, Integrated Marketing Communications, or IMC, as we’ll call it, means integrating all the promotional tools, so that they work together in harmony. Promotion is one of the Ps in the marketing mix. Promotions has its own mix of communications tools
Businesses also use marketing communication to retain the product’s current customer base, and to cement relationships with customers and suppliers, notes Reference for Business.. Marketing communication strategy defines the business’s plan for product information dissemination and brand awareness development. Components. Design an effective marketing communication strategy with one or more marketing communication components. Advertising allows a business to reach a large audience through mass market or target market appeals.
Advertising. Advertising is often the most prominent element of the communication mix. In fact, marketing and advertising are often misconstrued as the same thing. Advertising includes all messages a business pays to deliver through a medium to reach a targeted audience. Marketing is a broad business function that includes product research and development, merchandising and distribution processes and pricing, as well as communication or promotion. The communication mix refers to specific methods used to promote the company or its products to targeted customers.
“[The] messages and related media used to communicate with a market.”. “Marketing communications [is] communications via any or all the marketing mix elements.”. “The primary goal of marketing communication is to reach a defined audience to affect its behavior by informing, persuading, and reminding.”. 
Marketing communications are messages and related media used to communicate with a market. Those who practice advertising, branding, brand language, direct marketing, graphic design, marketing, packaging, promotion, publicity, sponsorship, public relations, sales, sales promotion and online marketing are termed marketing communicators, marketing communication managers, or more briefly, marcom managers.
Marketing communications tells your story and supports your business all while ensuring the right messages are sent to the right audience and accurately reflect your brand. If you have a great product or service but no one knows about it, you’re not going to be successful. 
Marketing communications is the promotion part of the marketing mix or the four Ps: price, place, promotion, and product. It can also refer to the strategy used by a company or individual to reach their target market through various types of communication. Those who practice advertising, branding, brand language, direct marketing, graphic design, marketing, packaging, promotion, publicity, sponsorship, public relations, sales, sales promotion and online marketing are termed marketing communicators, marketing communication managers, or more briefly, marcom managers.