Place unopened roast on a tray in refrigerator for 1½ to 2 days, or until thawed. To thaw faster, place unopened roast in cold tap water for 3 to 5 hours. Change water every 30 minutes to keep turkey cold. When thawed, keep in refrigerator until ready to cook. Slow-Cooker: Place THAWED roast, skin side up, flat in 8” diameter slow cooker. Add ½ cupwater. Cover, cook on low 4 to 7½ hours to internal temperature of 170ºF as measured with a meat thermometer. After 4 hours, check temperature at center, ends and near top for food safety.
Put frozen roast in crockpot and add all ingredients. Cover and cook on low for about six hours. Roast beef is well done when there is no pink left in middle, which is how most kids like it. 
Report Abuse. Depends on the size. I can cook a 3-4 pound frozen roast in 6-8 hours on low. Seasoning; salt ,pepper,thyme,Rosemary,garlic powder, onion powder. Not to much water, it will make a lot of juice. Source(s): I have had NO problems with the frozen roast.....All those thumbs down are from people who really don't know how to cook
Or put a pork roast, 3 medium carrots peeled and cut into chunks, 1 onion quartered, 3 celery stalks rinsed and cut into crock pot with 1 cup water, salt pepper to taste. Cook on low and slow for about 6-8 hours. If you want variations you can add 2 cans ginger ale and a shot or two of port wine. 
Cook roast in crock pot on low - ... oven at 350 degrees for 1 1/2 hours with 1/2 cup water. Add other ingredients then cook 1 more hour. Serves 6 to 8. 
I have a large crock pot that has a rack with it. I would place the roast on the rack and add water up to the roast so the added steam will help thaw out the roast. I would use the low setting so you know that the center will cook at the same temperature. I would give it 10 - 12 hours. Depends on the size. I can cook a 3-4 pound frozen roast in 6-8 hours on low. Seasoning; salt ,pepper,thyme,Rosemary,garlic powder, onion powder. Not to much water, it will make a lot of juice. Source(s): I have had NO problems with the frozen roast.....All those thumbs down are from people who really don't know how to cook
Or put a pork roast, 3 medium carrots peeled and cut into chunks, 1 onion quartered, 3 celery stalks rinsed and cut into crock pot with 1 cup water, salt pepper to taste. Cook on low and slow for about 6-8 hours. If you want variations you can add 2 cans ginger ale and a shot or two of port wine. The average cook time for a 2.5 pound roast in a crock pot is six hours; more if you are adding vegetable to it, slightly less if it will not be disturbed while cooking.
CROCK POT ROAST 1 sirloin tip roast or boneless chuck roast 1 can Coca Cola 1 med. cut up onions 15 oz. can sm. whole potatoes 15 oz. can carrots or sliced carrots 4 oz. can chopped mushrooms Wash meat and place in crock pot; add onion and Coke and salt and pepper to taste. Cook on high for 6-8 hours. In last hour, add potatoes, carrots, and mushrooms and let entire meal cook at least another hour.
Step 1. Place the frozen beef roast into the Crock Pot and set it depending on how much time you have to cook the roast. If you plan on cooking for eight to nine hours, set the crock pot to low. If you only have four to five hours, set the crock pot to high. Place the lid on the Crock Pot and turn it on. There is no need to turn the meat. Since the lid traps some of the steam for cooking purposes, avoid opening the crock pot to check for doneness. Set a timer for the amount of time the roast needs according the heat level.