Modifications to the basic passive treatment walls may involve a funnel-and-gate system or an iron treatment wall. The funnel-and-gate system for in situ treatment of contaminated plumes consists of low hydraulic conductivity (e.g., 1E-6 cm/s) cutoff walls (the funnel) with a gate that contains in situ reaction zones. Limitations: 1  Passive treatment walls may lose their reactive capacity, requiring replacement of the reactive medium. 2  Passive treatment wall permeability may decrease due to precipitation of metal salts. 3  Depth and width of barrier. 4  Limited to a subsurface lithology that has a continous aquitard at a depth that is within the vertical limits of 5  ... Vo
These are usually added to the bioremediation system in a useable form (e.g., as ammonium for nitrogen and as phosphate for phosphorous). Phosphates can cause soil plugging as a result of their reaction with minerals, such as iron and calcium, to form stable precipitates that fill the pores in the soil and aquifer. Bioremediation is not applicable for treatment of inorganic contaminants. The rate at which microorganisms degrade contaminants is influenced by the specific contaminants present and their concentrations, oxygen supply, moisture, temperature, pH, nutrient supply, bioaugmentation, and cometabolism. In situ biological treatment technologies are sensitive to certain soil parameters
This edited book on Applied Bioremediation-Active and Passive Approaches contains mix of interesting chapters that will certainly add to the advancement of knowledge and will provide the required valuable resource and stimulus to the researchers worldwide. 
The bioremediation systems in operation today rely on microorganisms native to the contaminated sites, encouraging them to work by supplying them with the optimum levels of nutrients and other chemicals essential for their metabolism. A principal concern in determining whether the site environment is appropriate for in situ bioremediation is the type of bioremediation to be implemented. Bioremediation can be grouped into two broad types: intrinsic and engineered.
Bioremediation is a waste management technique that involves the use of organisms to remove or neutralize pollutants from a contaminated site. Bioremediation may occur on its own (natural attenuation or intrinsic bioremediation) or may only effectively occur through the addition of fertilizers, oxygen, etc., that help encourage the growth of the pollution-eating microbes within the medium (biostimulation).
Bioremediation uses microorganisms to degrade organic contaminants in soil, groundwater, sludge, and solids. The microorganisms break down contaminants by using them as an energy source or cometabolizing them with an energy source. More specifically, bioremediation involves the production of energy in a redox reaction within microbial cells. In anaerobic metabolism, nitrate, sulfate, carbon dioxide, oxidized materials, or organic compounds may replace oxygen as the electron acceptor. In cometabolic bioremediation, microbes do not gain energy or carbon from degrading a contaminant. Instead, the contaminant is degraded via a side reaction (EPA 2006).
According to the EPA, bioremediation is a “treatment that uses naturally occurring organisms to break down hazardous substances into less toxic or non toxic substances”. Bioremediation may occur on its own (natural attenuation or intrinsic bioremediation) or may only effectively occur through the addition of fertilizers, oxygen, etc., that help encourage the growth of the pollution-eating microbes within the medium (biostimulation).
Mycoremediation is a form of bioremediation in which fungi are used to decontaminate the area. The term mycoremediation refers specifically to the use of fungal mycelia in bioremediation. One of the primary roles of fungi in the ecosystem is decomposition, which is performed by the mycelium. Bioremediation may occur on its own (natural attenuation or intrinsic bioremediation) or may only effectively occur through the addition of fertilizers, oxygen, etc., that help encourage the growth of the pollution-eating microbes within the medium (biostimulation).
Soil vapor extraction, known as SVE, is the most frequently selected method for treatment of contaminated soil at superfund sites, brown-fields, refineries, gas stations, dry cleaners, and grain elevators. It is a relatively simple process that physically separates contaminants from soil. Used alone, soil vapor extraction cannot remove contaminants in the saturated zone of the subsurface, the water-soaked soil that lies below the water table. At sites where contamination is in the saturated zone, a process called air sparging may be used along with the SVE system.