Uses. This medication is used to treat certain mental/mood conditions (such as schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, sudden episodes of mania or depression associated with bipolar disorder). Quetiapine is known as an anti-psychotic drug (atypical type). Quetiapine may also be used in combination with other medication to treat depression. If you are using quetiapine in combination with other medication to treat depression, carefully read the drug information for the other medication.
Quetiapine is used to treat certain mental/ mood disorders (such as schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, sudden episodes of mania or depression associated with bipolar disorder). Drugs used to treat depression can help prevent suicidal thoughts/attempts and provide other important benefits. Quetiapine may also be used in combination with other medication to treat depression. If you are using quetiapine in combination with other medication to treat depression, carefully read the drug information for the other medication.
Seroquel (Generic: quetiapine fumarate), the popular drug used by millions of Americans to treat Schizophrenia and Bipolar Disorder has been linked to serious, life threatening side effects. 
DRUG CLASS AND MECHANISM: Quetiapine is an oral atypical antipsychotic drug used for treating schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. Although the mechanism of action of quetiapine is unknown, like other atypical anti-psychotics, it inhibits communication among nerves of the brain. It is thought that its beneficial effect is due to blocking of the dopamine type 2 (D2) and serotonin type 2 (5-HT2) receptors. The FDA approved quetiapine in September 1997. PRESCRIBED FOR: Quetiapine is used alone or in combination with other drugs to treat schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. It also is used for treating major depression in combination with antidepressants
There may be a slightly increased risk of serious, possibly fatal side effects (such as stroke, heart failure, fast/ irregular heartbeat, pneumonia) when this medication is used by older adults with dementia. This medication is not approved for the treatment of dementia-related behavior problems. Quetiapine may also be used in combination with other medication to treat depression. If you are using quetiapine in combination with other medication to treat depression, carefully read the drug information for the other medication.
Quetiapine (/kwɨˈtaɪ.əpiːn/ kwi-TY-ə-peen) (developed and marketed as Seroquel by AstraZeneca) is an atypical antipsychotic approved for the treatment of schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, and along with an antidepressant to treat major depressive disorder. Annual sales are approximately $1.3 billion worldwide. In those with bipolar disorder, quetiapine is used to treat depressive episodes, acute manic episodes associated with bipolar I disorder (as either monotherapy or adjunct therapy to lithium, valproate or lamotrigine), and maintenance treatment of bipolar I disorder (as adjunct therapy to lithium or divalproex).
Seroquel is the brand name of the generic drug q uetiapine, a prescription drug used to treat schizophrenia and bipolar disorder (formerly called manic-depression). Seroquel changes the levels of neurotransmitters (naturally occurring brain substances) including serotonin and dopamine. In addition, there is not enough scientific evidence to show that the benefits of Seroquel for off-label uses outweigh the risks associated with the drug, concluded a study published in the Journal of Psychosocial Nursing and Mental Health Services in 2013.
Seroquel (quetiapine) is a psychotropic medication used to treat schizophrenia in adults and children who are at least 13 years old. Seroquel is also used in the treatment of major depression and bipolar disorder. Seroquel passes into breast milk and may have undesirable effects on a nursing infant. Our Seroquel Side Effects Drug Center provides a comprehensive view of available drug information on the potential side effects when taking this medication. This is not a complete list of side effects and others may occur.