By Robert Longley. Jacob J. Jack Lew was sworn in as the nation's 76th Secretary of the Treasury on Feb. 28, 2013. Nominated by President Obama on Jan. 10, 2013, Lew was confirmed by the Senate on Feb. 27, 2013 and sworn in the next day to replace the retiring Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner. Early Life and Education. Lew first joined the Obama administration in 2010 as deputy Secretary of State for Management and Resources. In November 2010, he was confirmed by the Senate as Director of the Office of Management and Budget, the same office he held under President Clinton from 1998 to 2001.
U.S. Treasury Secretary Jack Lew pauses during remarks at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington, D.C., Oct. 7, 2014. Reuters/Jonathan Ernst. By Treasury Secretary Jack Lew's reckoning, being a millionaire does not constitute living high above the ranks of ordinary people. Back when he was in the private sector enjoying six-and seven-figure pay packages, Lew said on Wednesday, my own compensation was never in the stratosphere.
The Secretary of the Treasury is fifth in the United States presidential line of succession. The current and 76th Secretary of the Treasury is Jacob Lew, a former White House Chief of Staff who was confirmed by the United States Senate on February 27, 2013. 
That's partly due to the fact that, as an investor, he's quite conservative. Lew is worth between $748,000 and $1.7 million according to financial disclosures filed with the Office of Government Ethics, which requires government officials to declare ranges of assets and liabilities. Lew reported no debt
Lew previously served as Director of the Office of Management and Budget in the Clinton and Obama Administrations, and is a member of the Democratic Party. Born in New York City, Lew received his A.B. from Harvard College and his J.D. from Georgetown University Law Center. Lew began his career as a legislative assistant to Representative Joe Moakley and as a senior policy adviser to former House Speaker Tip O'Neill. Lew then worked as an attorney in private practice before working as a deputy in Boston's office of management and budget. In 1993, he began work for the Clinton Administration as Special Assistant to the President
On January 10, 2013, Lew was nominated as the replacement for retiring Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner, to serve in President Barack Obama 's second term. On February 27, 2013, the Senate confirmed Lew for the position. He was sworn in the following day. Lew began his career as a legislative assistant to Representative Joe Moakley and as a senior policy adviser to former House Speaker Tip O'Neill. Lew then worked as an attorney in private practice before working as a deputy in Boston's office of management and budget. In 1993, he began work for the Clinton Administration as Special Assistant to the President
Treasury Secretary nominee Jack Lew is worth between $748,000 and $1.7 million, putting him among the least wealthy Treasury Secretaries in recent history. Lew is worth between $748,000 and $1.7 million according to financial disclosures filed with the Office of Government Ethics, which requires government officials to declare ranges of assets and liabilities.
So it looks like Jacob Jack Lew is indeed going to be President Obama's next Treasury Secretary, NBC's John Harwood reported on Wednesday. WASHINGTON -- Treasury Secretary Jacob Lew has become the latest member of President Barack Obama's Cabinet to give back a portion of his salary.
Jacob J. Lew Secretary of the Treasury. Hi-Resolution Photo. Jack Lew was confirmed by the United States Senate on February 27, 2013, to serve as the 76th Secretary of the Treasury. Secretary Lew previously served as White House Chief of Staff