Plastics are everywhere. While you're reading this article, there are probably numerous plastic items within your reach (your computer, your pen, your phone). A plastic is any material that can be shaped or molded into any form -- some are naturally occurring, but most are man-made. Plastics are made from oil. Oil is a carbon-rich raw material, and plastics are large carbon-containing compounds. They're large molecules called polymers, which are composed of repeating units of shorter carbon-containing compounds called monomers. 
Plastics are derived from organic products. The materials used in the production of plastics are natural products such as cellulose, coal, natural gas, salt and, of course, crude oil. Crude oil is a complex mixture of thousands of compounds. To become useful, it must be processed
Here's a look a what plastic is and how it is formed. Answer: Plastic is any synthetic or semi-synthetic organic polymer. While plastics may be made from just about any organic polymer, most industrial plastic is made from petrochemicals. Thermoplastics and thermosetting polymers are the two types of plastic.
Top 10 unbelievable historical concurrencies. The specifics of how plastic is made depends on what kind it is and what it will be used for, but the basic steps are the same. Plastic is made using a variety of chemical and refining processes that turn single molecules called monomers into long chains called polymers. 
PVC (polyvinylchloride) is generally seen as a har … d plastic. It is made from vinyl chloride monomers which are pieced together to form a long chain. These are then placed alongside each other to form a coherent strand. This strand can be made into almost any shape with the use of heat and pressure. Plastic resins are, in turn, used to produce many different types of plastic. The majority of what we know as plastic today is made from materials that are extracted from crude oil. Often the same type of crude oil that is used to produce the fuels for cars. 1  There are many other types of polymer, both natural and synthetic: cellulose, starch, silicones, teflon, PVC, etc
can be processed by flow. Plastic is a material consisting of any of a wide range of synthetic or semi-synthetic organics that are malleable and can be molded into solid objects of diverse shapes. Plastics are typically organic polymers of high molecular mass, but they often contain other substances. Unplasticised polystyrene is a rigid, brittle, inexpensive plastic that has been used to make plastic model kits and similar knick-knacks. It also is the basis for some of the most popular foamed plastics, under the name styrene foam or Styrofoam.
Plastic is made of monomers. Organic plastics are polymers, composed of monomers (repeating units). A polymer is a chain of molecules repeated again and again. Plastic resins are, in turn, used to produce many different types of plastic. The majority of what we know as plastic today is made from materials that are extracted from crude oil. Often the same type of crude oil that is used to produce the fuels for cars. 1  There are many other types of polymer, both natural and synthetic: cellulose, starch, silicones, teflon, PVC, etc