Closed Session, 6:00 p.m. Open Session Wednesday, September 4, 2013 M I N U T E S* A Regular Meeting/Budget Study Session of the Board of Trustees of the Coast Community College District was held on September 4, 2013 in the Board Room at the District Office. Motion carried with the following vote: Ayes: Trustees Prinsky, Hornbuckle, Patterson, Moreno, Grant and Kelly Noes: None Absent: None Abstain: None President Prinsky recessed the meeting at 7:42 p.m. for a short break. The meeting was reconvened at 7:47 p.m. 3.08 DIS-Review of Quarterly Financial Status Report.
Andrew Jones. CCCD Chancellor Andrew Jones is the highest paid executive in the district earning a base salary of $248,000, 2 percent higher than his predecessor Ding Jo-Currie, who retired as chancellor in 2010. In addition to the six executives, the district also hired a new chancellor in 2011. District Chancellor Andrew Jones receives a $248,000 a year salary in addition to a $20,000 a year relocation stipend and a 24 month housing allowance of $1,500 a month and a $4,800 a year mileage stipend.
Top district administrator resigns From Campus Reports Coast Report Online | 0 comments. Just over a week before classes are scheduled to begin at the three Coast Community College District campuses, including Orange Coast College, district chancellor Andrew C. Jones resigned from his position effective today. Under his leadership the district passed a $690-million bond initiative, implemented integrated student success initiatives and created a regional CEO task force dedicated to leveraging the incredible resources of community colleges throughout Orange County.
Dr. Jones has also been a champion for elevating student learning outcome assessment as the major metric for institutional success. Most recently, he has been involved with leading regional workforce efforts in Southern California and developing entrepreneurial incubators to enhance the working learner. Dr. Jones has led several recent national initiatives to address the declining role of males of color in higher education, to promote increased faculty diversity and to promote student success through the use of technology, process improvement and predictive analytics.
Dennis Harkins salary. Dennis Harkins, the president of Orange Coast College. Harkins is the the second highest paid executive in the district at $198,000 a year in base salary. His salary when he was hired in 2010 was $182,000. In addition to the six executives, the district also hired a new chancellor in 2011. District Chancellor Andrew Jones receives a $248,000 a year salary in addition to a $20,000 a year relocation stipend and a 24 month housing allowance of $1,500 a month and a $4,800 a year mileage stipend.
Dr. Andrew C. Jones. Dr. Andrew C. Jones is the chief operating officer for Base 11. He has served as an executive administrator for over 30 years in the field of higher education. Dr. Jones has led several recent national initiatives to address the declining role of males of color in higher education, to promote increased faculty diversity and to promote student success through the use of technology, process improvement and predictive analytics.
Jones, a Fountain Valley resident, declined to comment Thursday through an attorney. On Wednesday, the trustees appointed Tom Harris, a former North Orange County Community College District chancellor, to replace Jones as interim chancellor. Harris will receive a six-month salary of $40,000. He starts Aug. 26. Coast Colleges’ recent breakup with its chancellor may cost the district more than $200,000 under the terms of an agreement approved by the Board of Trustees.
Most recently he served as chancellor of Coast Community College District, CA, and previously executive vice chancellor of Educational Affairs for the Dallas County Community College District, TX, and president of the Community College of Baltimore County, Catonsville, MD. Dr. Jones has led several recent national initiatives to address the declining role of males of color in higher education, to promote increased faculty diversity and to promote student success through the use of technology, process improvement and predictive analytics.