the innate reflex occurring in a healthy infant whereby the toes extend upward when the sole of the foot is gently stimulated. This response generally disappears by the time the baby walks, but it may reappear in adults if there is a loss in the function of the upper motor neurons. Also known as Babinski's sign. 
n. An extension of the great toe, sometimes with fanning of the other toes, in response to stroking of the sole of the foot. It is a normal reflex in infants, but it is usually associated with a disturbance of the pyramidal tract in children and adults. Also called Babinski sign, Babinski's sign. 1. Babinski reflex-extension upward of the toes when the sole of the foot is stroked firmly on the outer side from the heel to the front; normal in infants under the age of two years but a sign of brain or spinal cord injury in older persons.
Babinski reflex: A reflex used to determine adequacy of the higher (central) nervous system. The Babinski reflex is obtained by stimulating the outside of the sole of the foot, causing extension of the big toe while fanning the other toes. A Babinski reflex in an older child or an adult is abnormal and is a sign of a problem in the brain or spinal cord. A Babinski reflex that is present on one side but not the other is also abnormal, and it can indicate which side of the brain is involved.
Ba·bin·ski reflex. n. An extension of the great toe, sometimes with fanning of the other toes, in response to stroking of the sole of the foot. It is a normal reflex in infants, but it is usually associated with a disturbance of the pyramidal tract in children and adults. Also called Babinski sign, Babinski's sign. Babinski reflex-extension upward of the toes when the sole of the foot is stroked firmly on the outer side from the heel to the front; normal in infants under the age of two years but a sign of brain or spinal cord injury in older persons. Babinski, Babinski sign.
Babinski reflex-Synonym(s): Babinski sign (1). Babinski sign - (1) extension of the great toe and abduction of the other toes instead of normal flexion reflex to plantar stimulation. Synonym(s): Babinski phenomenon; Babinski reflex; Babinski test; - (2) in hemiplegia, weakness of platysma muscle on affected side. a reflex action of the toes, indicative of abnormalities in the motor control pathways leading from the cerebral cortex. It is elicited in dogs and cats by an upward stroking of the metacarpal or metatarsal bones.
Definition of BABINSKI REFLEX. : a reflex movement in which when the sole is tickled the big toe turns upward instead of downward and which is normal in infancy but indicates damage to the central nervous system (as in the pyramidal tracts) later in life —called also Babinski sign, Ba*bin*ski's reflex, \-skēz-\. ADVERTISEMENT. : a reflex movement in which when the sole is tickled the great toe turns upward instead of downward and which is normal in infancy but indicates damage to the central nervous system (as in the pyramidal tracts) when occurring later in life—called also Babinski, Babinski sign, Babinski's sign; compare plantar reflex.
Noun. 1. Babinski reflex-extension upward of the toes when the sole of the foot is stroked firmly on the outer side from the heel to the front; normal in infants under the age of two years but a sign of brain or spinal cord injury in older persons.
Babinski reflex. Synonyms: Babinski sign1. The definition information for Babinski reflex is provided by Stedman's. You can search our medical dictionary here. Stedman's, part of Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, provides a comprehensive line of health-science publications for healthcare professionals and medical students. 