Consult with your veterinarian to determine which vaccinations your puppy should receive, and how often. Drs. Foster and Smith prefer to vaccinate puppies with a combination vaccine at six weeks of age initially, with boosters given every three weeks until the puppy is about sixteen weeks of age. At 9 weeks of age, 40% of the puppies were able to respond to the vaccine. The number increased to 60% by 16 weeks of age, and by 18 weeks, 95% of the puppies were protected by the vaccine. Almost all researchers agree that for puppies and kittens, we need to give at least three combination vaccinations and repeat these at one year of age. Drs
I believe the current UC Davis recommendation is that puppy gets its first Parvo vaccine at 8 weeks of age, with a booster at 12 weeks and 16 weeks, however your Vet will know the protocol most effectively used in your area. + 68 others found this useful. 
Yes, a vet should give the first round of vaccinations at 6 weeks then again at 9, 12 & 15 weeks. Talk to your vet about that, if the dog has parvo it'll be like locking the gate after the horse has run away. The vet might want to see how he does before giving shots, but your vet is the best answer to this question. 6 weeks is generally when the first parvo shot is given. As far as vacinating after a puppy has already had parvo that is something you would need to talk to your vet about. .
In this article. Generally, the first vaccine is given at 6-8 weeks of age and a booster is given at four-week intervals until the puppy is 16-20 weeks of age, and then again at one year of age. A puppy’s vaccination program is not complete before four months of age. 
Timing. Different veterinarians have different protocols about the timing of vaccinations. Most veterinarians recommend that a puppy receive his first parvovirus vaccination when he is 8 weeks old. The second vaccination is given in three to four weeks, about age 11 to 12 weeks. A third vaccination is given in three to four more weeks, about age 14 to 15 weeks. 
It is given to puppies at 12 weeks of age and then once a year or every three years depending on the type of vaccine you choose. Owners of young puppies are advised to give dogs one year of age or younger a single year dose because the three-year vaccine may be too harsh for their systems. 
A puppy can be vaccinated for Parvovirus as early as 5 weeks. A combination vaccine (5-way) should be given at 6 and 9 weeks. At 12 and 15 weeks of age your puppy will need another combination vaccine, possibly a 7-way, as well as a rabies vaccine. Adult dogs will also require a booster shot once a year
Rabies Shots Are Essential. Rabies shots are one of the vaccines you will need to get your new puppy. These shots can be given to puppies that are 16 weeks of age. You will also need to get a vaccine booster when your puppy is a year old. Additional boosters need to be given every three years after the first two Rabies vaccines. 
puppies get combination vaccines. 6 to 7 weeks of age: Give first combination vaccine. (Distemper, Hepatitis, Parvovirus, Parainfluenza, Coronavirus) 9 weeks of age: Give second combination vaccine. 12 weeks of age: Give the third combination injection and possibly a LYME Vaccine inoculation. Generally a LYME vaccine is then repeated two weeks later, then once a year.