PRESCRIBED FOR: Meloxicam is used to treat tenderness, swelling, and pain caused by the inflammation of osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, and juvenile rheumatoid arthritis in patients 2 years of age or older. SIDE EFFECTS: Common side effects with NSAIDs are related to the gastrointestinal tract (GI) and include: Other important side effects of meloxicam are: 1  headache, 2  fatigue related to anemia (low red blood cell count), 3  joint pain, 4  back pain, 5  insomnia, 6  itching, 7  skin rash, 8  bladder infection, and. 9  upper respiratory tract infection.
BRAND NAME: Mobic. DRUG CLASS AND MECHANISM: Meloxicam is in a class of drugs called nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) that are used to treat pain and/or inflammation. Other members of this class include ibuprofen (Motrin), indomethacin (Indocin), nabumetone (Relafen) and several others. Other important side effects of meloxicam are: 1  headache, 2  fatigue related to anemia (low red blood cell count), 3  joint pain, 4  back pain, 5  insomnia, 6  itching, 7  skin rash, 8  bladder infection, and. 9  upper respiratory tract infection
Drug Meloxicam. The generic Meloxicam is manufactured by 20 companies. The information provided includes the cost of the drug and the type of drug-tablet, capsule, syrup, cream, gel, ointment, liquid or injection. To view the price of the drug click on the brand name
The inactive ingredients in MOBIC oral suspension include colloidal silicon dioxide, hydroxyethylcellulose, sorbitol, glycerol, xylitol, monobasic sodium phosphate (dihydrate), saccharin sodium, sodium benzoate, citric acid (monohydrate), raspberry flavor, and purified water. Meloxicam has pKa values of 1.1 and 4.2. MOBIC is available as a tablet for oral administration containing 7.5 mg or 15 mg meloxicam, and as an oral suspension containing 7.5 mg meloxicam per 5 mL.
Generic Mobic -- Strengths. Generic versions of Mobic are sold under the names Meloxicam tablets and Meloxicam oral suspension (liquid). They are available in several strengths, including: Generic Mobic is currently manufactured by a number of companies. Some of these companies include: 1  Breckenridge Pharmaceuticals. 2  Zydus Pharmaceuticals. 3  Mylan Pharmaceuticals. 4  Watson Pharmaceuticals. 5  Par Pharmaceuticals. 6  Teva Pharmaceuticals.
Generic Meloxicam -- Strengths. Generic meloxicam is sold under the name Meloxicam tablets and Meloxicam oral suspension (liquid). It is available in several strengths, including: 1  Meloxicam 7.5 mg tablets. 2  Meloxicam 15 mg tablets. 3  Meloxicam 7.5 mg/5mL oral suspension -- one teaspoon (5mL) contains 7.5 mg of meloxicam. 1
Generic Name: Meloxicam. Generic for Mobic* (Meloxicam) is used to treat inflammation, pain, stiffness, and tenderness caused by osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis. It is in a class of drugs called non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). If any side effects of Generic for Mobic* develop or change in intensity, the doctor should be informed as soon as possible. Generic for Mobic* can cause side effects such as diarrhea, constipation, gas, dizziness, nervousness, headache, dry mouth, blurred vision, and runny nose. This is not a complete list of all side effects. Do concur with your doctor and follow his directions completely when you are taking Generic for Mobic*