$10,000 / 5,000 = $2 per unit. Often, calculating the cost per unit isn't so simple, especially in manufacturing situations. Usually, costs per unit involve variable costs (costs that vary with the number of units made) and fixed costs (costs that don't vary with the number of units made). For example, at XYZ Restaurant, which sells only pepperoni pizza, the variable expenses per pizza might be: Flour: $0.50. Yeast: $0.05. 
Fixed Cost Definition: A cost that remains constant, in total, regardless of changes in the level of activity within the relevant range. If a fixed cost is expressed on a per unit basis, it varies inversely with the level of activity.
Along with variable costs, fixed costs make up one of the two components of total cost: total cost is equal to fixed costs plus variable costs. In economics, fixed costs, indirect costs or overheads are business expenses that are not dependent on the level of goods or services produced by the business. They tend to be time-related, such as salaries or rents being paid per month, and are often referred to as overhead costs.
Variable Cost. Unit cost is an important metric to look at when evaluating a unit grower stock, or a stock that chiefly produces items that have a low fixed cost. The cost incurred by a company to produce, store and sell one unit of a particular product. Unit costs include all fixed costs (i.e. plant and equipment) and all variable costs (labor, materials, etc.) involved in production. Next Up
DEFINITION of 'Fixed Cost'. A cost that does not change with an increase or decrease in the amount of goods or services produced. Fixed costs are expenses that have to be paid by a company, independent of any business activity. It is one of the two components of the total cost of a good or service, along with variable cost. Next Up. An example of a fixed cost would be a company's lease on a building. If a company has to pay $10,000 each month to cover the cost of the lease but does not manufacture anything during the month, the lease payment is still due in full.
Related Terms: variable cost, total cost, fixed expenses Variable cost: All other costs that are some function of activity. They are usually considered linear because the unit cost is computed by dividing the total other costs for a period, or event, by the amount of activity in the period. 
Fixed Cost. Definition: A fixed cost is a cost that does not vary in the short term, irrespective of changes in production or sales levels, or other measures of activity. A fixed cost is a basic operating expense of a business that cannot be avoided, such as a rent payment. To continue the example of a fixed cost, the rent on a building will not change until the lease runs out or is re-negotiated, irrespective of the level of business activity within that building. Examples of other fixed costs are insurance, depreciation, and property taxes.
For example, assume total costs at 400 units is $1,200, and total costs at 350 units is $1,020. The unit costs are $3.00 ($1,200/400) and $2.91 ($1,050/350). Because the unit costs differ at the two activity levels, the cost is not variable. By default since the cost is not fixed or variable, it is a mixed cost. Total variable costs vary in direct proportion to volume. In other words, the more units produced and sold, the higher the total variable cost. The unit variable cost is the same at every level of activity. Total variable cost is zero if no units are produced and sold.