1 The neurotoxin is produced by bacteria called Clostridium botulinum. 2  The neurotoxin paralyzes muscles and can be deadly. 3  There are three major types of botulism that differ in how they are acquired: food-borne, wound, and infant botulism. 4  Food-borne botulism is usually caused by eating contaminated home-canned foods.
Botulism is a rare but potentially life-threatening bacterial illness that is caused by the ingestion of a toxin produced by Clostridium botulinum bacteria. Botulism poisoning is extremely rare, but is so dangerous that each diagnosed case is considered a public health emergency.
A severe, sometimes fatal food poisoning caused by ingestion of a toxin produced by the bacterium Clostridium botulinum in improperly canned or preserved food and characterized by nausea, vomiting, disturbed vision, and paralysis.
Foodborne botulism is caused by eating foods that contain the botulinum toxin. Wound botulism is caused by toxin produced from a wound infected with Clostridium botulinum. Infant botulism is caused by consuming the spores of the botulinum bacteria, which then grow in the intestines and release toxin.
1. any poisoning caused by Clostridium botulinum in the body; it produces a neurotoxin called botulinum toxin. 2. specifically, a rare but severe, often fatal, form of food poisoning due to ingestion of improperly canned or preserved foods contaminated with Clostridium botulinum.
Botulism is a rare but potentially life-threatening bacterial illness. Clostridium Botulinum bacteria grows on food and produces toxins that, when ingested, cause paralysis. Botulism poisoning is extremely rare, but so dangerous that each case is considered a public health emergency.
Botulism is a rare but serious paralytic disease caused by a bacterial toxin usually produced by the bacterium Clostridium botulinum. There are four generally recognized naturally-occurring types; foodborne, wound, infant, and, rarely, adult intestinal colonization. Iatrogenic and inhalational botulism may also occur.
Botulism is caused by botulinum toxin, a natural poison produced by certain bacteria in the Clostridium genus. Exposure to the botulinum toxin occurs mostly from eating contaminated food, or in infants, from certain clostridia growing in the intestine.