Zometa (zoledronic acid for injection) is available in vials as a sterile powder for reconstitution for intravenous infusion. Each vial contains 4.264 mg of zoledronic acid monohydrate, corresponding to 4 mg zoledronic acid on an anhydrous basis. The recommended dose of ZOMETA in patients with solid tumors and osteolytic, mixed or osteoblastic bone metastases is 4 mg infused over 15 minutes. The recommended dose of ZOMETA in patients with osteolytic, lesions of multiple myeloma
(For more detail, see How Zometa Works section below). What Zometa Is Used For: 1  Zometa is used as a support medication to treat symptoms of cancer such as hypercalcemia (high blood calcium levels) or to decrease complications (such as fractures or pain) produced by bone metastasis (spread of cancer to the bone). Side Effects of Zometa : Important things to remember about the side effects of Zometa: 1  Most people do not experience all of the side effects listed. 2  Side effects are often predictable in terms of their onset and duration. 3  Side effects are almost always reversible and will go away after treatment is complete.
Zometa is in a group of medicines called bisphosphonates. Common side effects of Zometa include dizziness, headache, or flu-like symptoms (such as fever, chills, muscle/joint aches), cough, vision problems, diarrhea, constipation, tired feeling, joint or muscle pain, or redness or swelling where the needle was placed. Zometa is administered under physician supervision
Zometa (zolcdronic acid) Injection is a bisphosphonate used to treat Paget's disease, high blood levels of calcium caused by cancer (hypercalcemia of malignancy), multiple myeloma (a type of bone marrow cancer), or metastatic bone cancer. Common side effects of Zometa include dizziness, headache, or flu-like symptoms (such as fever, chills, muscle/joint aches), cough, vision problems, diarrhea, constipation, tired feeling, joint or muscle pain, or redness or swelling where the needle was placed.
1 The amount of Zometa that you will receive depends on many factors, including, your general health or other health problems, and the type of cancer or condition being treated. 2  Your doctor will determine your dose and schedule. Side Effects of Zometa : Important things to remember about the side effects of Zometa: 1  Most people do not experience all of the side effects listed. 2  Side effects are often predictable in terms of their onset and duration. 3  Side effects are almost always reversible and will go away after treatment is complete.
Zometa is a drug belonging to the bisphosphonates group and is commonly used for cancer patients, especially those with complications to their skeletal system secondary to increased blood calcium levels. So, it is common to see that Zometa is prescribed along with other drugs that fight the cancer in patients. Zometa or zoledronic acid is usually administered to patients intravenously. A typical dose lasts for as long as 20 minutes and during this entire time, patients are monitored.
Zometa is a bisphosphonate medication used for treatment of cancer. As a side effect patients may experience osteonecrosis of the jaw and major joints. Zometa (zoledronate) is a bisphosphonate medication used to treat cancer patients. It is taken intervenously (through an IV). The use of bisphosphonate medications, such as Zometa, Aredia and Fosamax, have been linked to an increased occurrence of osteonecrosis of the jaw, a painful and potentially disfiguring jaw bone condition. Zometa is used in the treatment of: 1  hypercalcemia of malignancy.
Note: Zometa may be used to treat a condition called hypercalcemia (high blood calcium) symptoms of hypercalcemia may include frequent urination, poor appetite, nausea, vomiting, constipation, weakness, fatigue, muscle twitching, confusion, stupor and coma. Side Effects of Zometa : Important things to remember about the side effects of Zometa: 1  Most people do not experience all of the side effects listed. 2  Side effects are often predictable in terms of their onset and duration. 3  Side effects are almost always reversible and will go away after treatment is complete.
­. Zometa is a bisphosphonate medication used for treatment of cancer. As a side effect patients may experience osteonecrosis of the jaw and major joints. Zometa (zoledronate) is a bisphosphonate medication used to treat cancer patients. It is taken intervenously (through an IV). The use of bisphosphonate medications, such as Zometa, Aredia and Fosamax, have been linked to an increased occurrence of osteonecrosis of the jaw, a painful and potentially disfiguring jaw bone condition. Zometa is used in the treatment of: 1  hypercalcemia of malignancy.
1 Zometa is used as a support medication to treat symptoms of cancer such as hypercalcemia (high blood calcium levels) or to decrease complications (such as fractures or pain) produced by bone metastasis (spread of cancer to the bone). Side Effects of Zometa : Important things to remember about the side effects of Zometa: 1  Most people do not experience all of the side effects listed. 2  Side effects are often predictable in terms of their onset and duration. 3  Side effects are almost always reversible and will go away after treatment is complete.