rickshaw. n. 1. Also called: jinrikisha a small two-wheeled passenger vehicle drawn by one or two men, used in parts of Asia. 2. 
A rickshaw, or Jinrikisha, is a light, two-wheeled cart consisting of a doorless, chairlike body, mounted on springs with a collapsible hood and two shafts. Finished in black lacquer-ware over timber, it was drawn by a single rickshaw runner. Over time, cycle rickshaws (also known as pedicabs), auto rickshaws, and electric rickshaws and were invented. Pulled rickshaws created a popular form of transportation, and a source of employment for male laborers, within Asian cities in the 19th century.
rickshaw. n. 1. Also called: jinrikisha a small two-wheeled passenger vehicle drawn by one or two men, used in parts of Asia. 2. Noun. 1. rickshaw-a small two-wheeled cart for one passenger; pulled by one person. jinrikisha, ricksha. cart-a heavy open wagon usually having two wheels and drawn by an animal.
rickshaw noun [C]. › a ​small, ​covered ​passenger ​vehicle with two ​wheels that is usually ​pulled by one ​person. (Definition of rickshaw from the Cambridge Advanced Learner’s Dictionary & Thesaurus © Cambridge University Press). 
rickshaw noun [C]. › a ​small, ​covered ​passenger ​vehicle with two ​wheels that is usually ​pulled by one ​person. (Definition of rickshaw from the Cambridge Advanced Learners Dictionary & Thesaurus © Cambridge University Press). 
• RICKSHAW (noun). The noun RICKSHAW has 1 sense: 1. a small two-wheeled cart for one passenger; pulled by one person. Familiarity information: RICKSHAW used as a noun is very rare. 
Definition of RICKSHAW for Kids. : a small carriage with two wheels that is pulled by one person and was used originally in Japan. : a small, light vehicle with two wheels that is pulled by one person on foot or on a bicycle and that is used in some Asian countries. : a small covered 2-wheeled vehicle usually for one passenger that is pulled by one man and that was used originally in Japan. See rickshaw defined for English-language learners.
Full Definition of RICKSHAW. : a small covered 2-wheeled vehicle usually for one passenger that is pulled by one man and that was used originally in Japan. See rickshaw defined for English-language learners. See rickshaw defined for kids. : a small, light vehicle with two wheels that is pulled by one person on foot or on a bicycle and that is used in some Asian countries. : a small covered 2-wheeled vehicle usually for one passenger that is pulled by one man and that was used originally in Japan. See rickshaw defined for English-language learners.