specify a period of time in which the entrance fee will be refundable to the resident on a declining basis. For example, if an entrance fee under this arrangement declines at the rate of 1 percent each month, after 6 months 94 percent of the entrance fee is refundable. The entrance fee. amount often depends on the level of care at the time of entry, type. of housing chosen (with larger units requiring a larger fee), and. agreement type. The entrance fee allows the CCRC to offer lower. monthly fees and provide for future needs of residents.
By far, a CCRC is the most expensive senior living option. There are a number of costs to consider when looking at CCRCs. According to an article in the Wall Street Journal, the average entrance fee for each unit is $249,857.. 
Payments to a CCRC/FFSCCRC consist of two components: an entrance fee (generally comparable to the average value of residential homes in the community's geographic area); and, a monthly fee. Entrance fees begin at approximately $115,000 for a single person independent living unit. The long term care services, enriched housing/assisted living and skilled nursing facility care, are available on a fee for service or per diem basis. There is no long-term care benefit included in the contract; the resident pays for long-term care if and when needed.
The example is for a couple paying a $250,000 entrance fee and monthly fees of $3,500, which provides them a two-bedroom apartment and access to assisted living and skilled nursing services should they need them. 
Most CCRCs require payment of a one-time fee, usually called the. entrance fee, before moving to the community. The entrance fee. amount often depends on the level of care at the time of entry, type. of housing chosen (with larger units requiring a larger fee), and. agreement type. The entrance fee allows the CCRC to offer lower. monthly fees and provide for future needs of residents.
This security comes at a price, however. In addition to the entrance fee, there's a monthly fee to cover meals, housekeeping, utilities, transportation and amenties. This fee is typically $1000 or more, depending on the resident's service plan. CCRCs use one of three different cost structures, each of which affects the size of both entrance and monthly fees. 
Entrance Fees. An entrance fee is a one-time cost that you pay up front when you become a resident of that community. The entrance fee is one of the most expensive costs associated with paying for a CCRC, because it prepays the cost of your healthcare services. In some communities, it also includes the purchase of real estate. Entrance fees may be fully or partially refundable. In most cases where paying for a CCRC involves a buy-in fee, that means you would own your living accommodations, but would be required to pay for services and healthcare separately.
Fee-for-service contracts may require an entrance fee, but discounted health care or assisted living services are excluded, and monthly fees increase with level of care. If and when heath care needs change, residents would pay regular per diem rates. 
Contrary to what many may think, living in an entrance fee community is affordable for almost anyone who’s owned a home, Ogus says, but seniors who choose a continuing care community early on experience the greatest financial savings. How Entrance Fees Work. Seniors typically encounter two types of entrance fees: 1  Non-refundable entrance fees carry a smaller price tag, but they generally do not allow money to be returned to a senior or his or her family in the event of a move or death after five years of living in the community.
It may seem counterintuitive, but entrance fees can ultimately make senior living communities more affordable—and provide greater predictability. The entrance fee is a sum of money paid upfront to secure a spot. Monthly fees cover services such as maintenance, cleaning and transportation. The money paid upfront actually lowers your monthly fee. How Entrance Fees Work. Seniors typically encounter two types of entrance fees: 1  Non-refundable entrance fees carry a smaller price tag, but they generally do not allow money to be returned to a senior or his or her family in the event of a move or death after five years of living in the community.