What a complete blood count measures. A CBC measures the amount of three types of cells in your blood: White blood cell count. A white blood cell count, also called a leukocyte count, measures the total number of white blood cells in a sample of blood. Why you may need a complete blood count. A complete blood count (CBC) is a common blood test that your doctor may recommend for the following reasons: To help diagnose some blood cancers, such as leukemia and lymphoma. Find out if cancer has spread to the bone marrow. Determine how a person’s body is handling cancer treatment
Definition. A complete blood count (CBC) is a blood test used to evaluate your overall health and detect a wide range of disorders, including anemia, infection and leukemia. A complete blood count test measures several components and features of your blood, including: 1  Red blood cells, which carry oxygen. 2  White blood cells, which fight infection. 
Why It Is Done. A complete blood count may be done to: 1  Find the cause of symptoms such as fatigue, weakness, fever, bruising, or weight loss. 2  Check for anemia. 3  See how much blood has been lost if there is bleeding. 4  Diagnose polycythemia. 5  Check for an infection. 6  Diagnose diseases of the blood, such as leukemia. 
Clinical Significance. A complete blood count is used as a screening test for various disease states including anemia, leukemia and inflammatory processes. 
Complete Blood Count (CBC) Overview. The complete blood count (CBC) is one of the most commonly ordered blood tests. To understand this test, it is important to know that blood consists of two major parts: plasma and cellular elements. 
Home Tests Hemogram (CBC). The hemogram or complete blood count (CBC) is used as a broad screening test to check for such disorders as anemia, infection, and many other diseases. 
1 The CBC may also include reticulocyte count, which is a measurement of the absolute count or percentage of young red blood cells in blood. 2  Evaluation of platelets, cell fragments that are vital for normal blood clotting: 3  The platelet count is the number of platelets in a person's sample of blood. 
A complete blood count with differential/platelet will also include: 1  Neutrophil granulocytes: May indicate bacterial infection. 2  May also be raised in acute viral infections. 3  Because of the segmented appearance of the nucleus, neutrophils are sometimes referred to as segs. A complete blood count with differential/platelet will also include: 1  Neutrophil granulocytes: May indicate bacterial infection. 2  Lymphocytes: Higher with some viral infections such as glandular fever and. 3  Monocytes: May be raised in bacterial infection, tuberculosis, malaria, Rocky Mountain spotted fever, monocytic leukemia, chronic ulcerative ....