Meaning & History. Means rich friend from the Old English elements ead wealth, fortune and wine friend. This was the name of a 7th-century Northumbrian king, regarded as a saint. After the Norman conquest the name was not popular, but it was eventually revived in the 19th centu
From the Old English name Eadwine, meaning rich or happy, and friend. Famous bearers: the hero of Charles Dickens' last novel, 'Edwin Drood'. Anglo-Saxon: Male Valued. Detailed meaning: Edwin is utilized predominantly in English along with other different languages, and it is derived from Old origins. The name means friend of money, blessed friend. Two-element are contained in the name Ed then win the first means wealth, blessed, the second part 'win' means a friend. 
Meaning of Edwin. English name. In English, the name Edwin means-prosperous friend. Other origins for the name Edwin include-English, German.The name Edwin is most often used as a boy name or male name. English Name Meaning-prosperous friend. Origin-England.
Edwin /ed-win/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced ED-win. It is of Old English origin, and the meaning of Edwin is  wealthy friend. From ad meaning riches and wine meaning friend. Saint Edwin (seventh century) was king of Northumbria and a martyr. Used occasionally in the 16th century, but modern use is mainly due to a 19th century revival. Astronaut Edwin Buzz Aldrin; Attorney General Edwin Meese III
[ 2 syll. e-dwi(n) , ed-w- in ] The baby boy name Edwin is pronounced as EH DWihN †. Edwin is used predominantly in the English and German languages, and it is derived from Old English origins. The name is of the meaning rich friend, friend of riches, blessed friend. A two-element name, it is derived from the elements 'ead' meaning wealth, blessed; ' wine ' friend
In American the meaning of the name Edwin is: Valued. English Meaning: The name Edwin is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Edwin is: Rich in friendship. From the Old English name Eadwine, meaning rich or happy, and friend. Famous bearers: the hero of Charles Dickens' last novel, 'Edwin Drood'. 
The name Edwin means rich friend. It comes from the Old English elements ead (rich, blessed) and wine (friend). The original Anglo-Saxon form is Eadwine, which is also found for Anglo-Saxon figures. Edwin may refer to: 