These plates are constantly moving, floating on the semi-liquid mantle. Convergent boundaries: Where the edges of the plates come together, they in some cases, form a subduction zone, where one plate slides beneath the other, eg: the Juan de Fuca plate sliding beneath the North American Plate. The deeper mantle below the asthenosphere is more rigid again. This is, however, not because of cooler temperatures but due to high pressure. The lithosphere is broken up into what are called tectonic plates —in the case of Earth, there are seven major and many minor plates. The lithospheric plates ride on the asthenosphere. These plates move in relation to one another at one of three types of plate boundaries: convergent or collision boundaries, divergent or spreading boundaries, and transform boundaries
1 Divergent boundaries (Constructive) occur where two plates slide apart from each other. 2  At zones of ocean-to-ocean rifting, divergent boundaries form by seafloor spreading, allowing for the formation of new ocean basin. Where the plates meet, their relative motion determines the type of boundary: convergent, divergent, or transform. Earthquakes, volcanic activity, mountain-building, and oceanic trench formation occur along these plate boundaries. The lateral relative movement of the plates typically ranges from zero to 100 mm annually.
Report Abuse. Plate tectonics is the geological theory that describes the way in which the outer layer of the Earth's surface floats upon a semi-liquid inner layer. It's really a pretty well established description of things. The deeper mantle below the asthenosphere is more rigid again. This is, however, not because of cooler temperatures but due to high pressure. The lithosphere is broken up into what are called tectonic plates —in the case of Earth, there are seven major and many minor plates. The lithospheric plates ride on the asthenosphere. These plates move in relation to one another at one of three types of plate boundaries: convergent or collision boundaries, divergent or spreading boundaries, and transform boundarie
I just want to know if the following plate boundaries are tensional/constructive, compressional/destructive or passive/transform: 1) Haiti Earthquake-Caribbean and N.American Plate 2)Indain Tsunami-Indian and Burma plate thnx! :). Follow. 3 answers 3. I just want to know if the following plate boundaries are tensional/constructive, compressional/destructive or passive/transform: 1) Haiti Earthquake-Caribbean and N.American Plate. 2)Indain Tsunami-Indian and Burma plate. thnx! :). Add your answer.
From the deepest ocean trench to the tallest mountain, plate tectonics explains the features and movement of Earth's surface in the present and the past. Plate tectonics is the theory that Earth's outer shell is divided into several plates that glide over the mantle, the rocky inner layer above the core. The plates act like a hard and rigid shell compared to Earth's mantle. This strong outer layer is called the lithosphere
Submit. · just now. Report Abuse. Plate tectonics is the theory that the outer rigid layer of the earth (the lithosphere) is divided into a couple of dozen plates that move around across the earth's surface relative to each other, like slabs of ice on a lake. Best Answer: the theory that the earth is made of massive plates beneath the surface that move every so often which is how we get earthquakes. and this also goes back to Pangea if you know what that is. Source(s): lovemeknotknot · 7 years ago.
The location where two plates meet is called a plate boundary. Plate boundaries are commonly associated with geological events such as earthquakes and the creation of topographic features such as mountains, volcanoes, mid-ocean ridges, and oceanic trenches. Where the plates meet, their relative motion determines the type of boundary: convergent, divergent, or transform. Earthquakes, volcanic activity, mountain-building, and oceanic trench formation occur along these plate boundaries. The lateral relative movement of the plates typically ranges from zero to 100 mm annually.