Curcumin is the active ingredient that comes from turmeric. Turmeric is a plant that is in the same family as ginger. The rhizomes (root stalks) of turmeric are used in cooking, particularly in curries. In traditional Asian medicine, turmeric is used to treat various conditions. Curcumin is extracted from turmeric for medicinal purposes.
Curcumin belongs to a family of chemicals known as curcuminoids, which are polyphenolic compounds that have a bright yellow color. The distinctive color of turmeric is due to the high levels of curcumin it contains. Laboratory and animal studies have demonstrated that curcumin has potent anti-inflammatory and anti-tumor properties, reports an article published in 2007 in the medical journal Advances in Experimental Medicine and Biology.
The plant turmeric (Curcuma longa) is very well known in India. The root is harvested, cleaned, dried, and powdered to be used as a spice (turmeric gives curry its beautiful golden yellow color) and as a medicine. Traditionally, turmeric was used for nearly every health condition known-from smallpox to a sprained ankle.
The two words are sometimes used interchangeably, but the technical difference between the two is that turmeric is the yellowish powder used to flavor foods, while curcumin is a chemical contained within turmeric.
Turmeric is a spice from the root of the curcuma longa plant which is in the ginger family. It’s used as a spice, a dye, and as a medicine in many Southeast Asian cultures, especially in Ayurvedic medicine. It can be taken in many forms from capsules and liquids, powders like Organic Turmeric from Banyan Botanicals.
Turmeric is a spice that contains Curcumin, a chemical compound that has been found to have anti cancer properties. For centuries, turmeric has been used as an antibiotic in India to provide relief in wounds and cuts. It has great healing power and the ability to suck pain when taken orally mixing it with milk.
In addition to its use as a culinary spice, turmeric has been used traditionally in India as a disinfectant and treatment for laryngitis, bronchitis, and diabetes. Turmeric is derived from the rhizomes (underground stems) of the plant Curcuma longa, a member of the ginger family.