Contents. There are 30 veterinary schools accredited by the American Veterinary Medical Association (AVMA) in the U.S. There were nearly 6,800 applicants competing for approximately 2,700 openings in 2013. In other words, it is very competitive to gain admission to a veterinary school. 
Doctorate. Options for completing a doctorate in veterinary medicine are numerous. Completion of a DVM degree typically takes four to six years. The first three to five years are case-based lecture and lab courses. The final year consists of clinical rotations. 
Classroom Training. Prospective veterinarians must complete a doctor of veterinary medicine degree. Typically, a doctorate in veterinary medicine takes four years to complete. Of these four years, three are spent on classroom training where students take courses in animal anatomy and physiology. They also take courses on disease diagnosis, prevention and treatment. As of 2010, the median annual salary for veterinarians was $82,040 and the field has an expected growth of 36 percent between 2010 and 2020. These facts can make a career as a veterinarian appealing. But to become a veterinarian you will need years of classroom training and hands-on experience.
Report Abuse. i think you have to have four years at a regular college, and then four years at vet school. i could be wrong, but i think that's how it goes. don't get discouraged, keep it up. being a vet is a great profession and if you love animals, you will love your job, no matter how long it takes. good luck. Report Abuse. if your in the usa and depending on what level of vet you want to be will be the length of school you have to take. for a minmum probly a good six years if you bust your butt, but more likely 8 or 9. alton rebel · 8 years ago.
Best Answer: On average it takes 8 years. It all really depends on how dedicated you are. The actual Veterinary Medicine program is a 4 year program, but you have to have your Bachelor degree in either Biology or Chemistry before you can be accepted to the vet med program. The Bachelor's degree is where it all depends. It depends on how many classes you take each semester, whether you take summer classes, whether you have to retake classes, whether you have to take zero level classes, etc. Some people get their Bachelor's degree in 3 years and some in 5-6 years.
to be an actual vet it takes 6- 10 years. 4 for a vet tech. one that helps the vet. lots of info to learn. look into it by getting witha college that does it. that would be your best bet. Report Abuse. if your in the usa and depending on what level of vet you want to be will be the length of school you have to take. for a minmum probly a good six years if you bust your butt, but more likely 8 or 9. alton rebel · 8 years ago.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. you have to take pre-veterinarian course for 2 years, then you have to go to university for 5... so all in all, it takes about 7 years to become any type of vet. You can become a vet technician at most community colleges in 2 years if time is the real concern and all you want to do is help animals. The real problem with becoming a vet … is not the time it is the classes. Lots of science classes.
Graduates of accelerated programs may complete the education in as few as 6 to 7 years, while those who wish to advance in the field as specialist veterinarians generally spend at least 11 to 12 years in training. On average, it takes about 8 years after high school to become an entry-level veterinarian. Undergraduate Coursework. The bachelor’s degree is the most common qualification held by veterinary school applicants, but some students have master’s and doctoral degrees. Army Medicine | Flickr. To get into veterinary school, students will need to complete an undergraduate education, typically lasting 4 years. They must then take the GRE, or Graduate Record Examination, and apply to veterinary school with their scores.
Report Abuse. Veterinary college is 4 years. It will take you 6-8 depending on your undergraduate studies. It will be taking me 7 total. ETA: You may not have to have a bachelor's degree to get into veterinary college. It depends on how many classes you take each semester, whether you take summer classes, whether you have to retake classes, whether you have to take zero level classes, etc. Some people get their Bachelor's degree in 3 years and some in 5-6 years.