Benthic invertebrates are organisms that live on the bottom of a water body (or in the sediment) and have no backbone. 
In 2004 Japanese researchers took the first images of a live giant squid in its natural habitat, and in July 2012 a live adult was first filmed in its natural habitat off Chichi-jima. Giant squid and some other large squid species maintain neutral buoyancy in seawater through an ammonium chloride solution which is found throughout their bodies and is lighter than seawater. This differs from the method of flotation used by most fish, which involves a gas-filled swim bladder.
The ecology of the abyssal benthos features very slow rates of decay, slow metabolism in all animals, which translates into slow growth, slow reproduction, and very long life. Many kinds of animals have succeeded in adapting to these conditions. Some are bottom-feeding, or demersal fish. Many live on the seafloor surface, and either eat each other or live on the very slim pickings that slowly fall down from the surface--dead plankton, dead algae, mostly microscopic. Many meiofauna do well by eating protozoans, which in turn eat bacteria. Most abyssal animals are hungry. 
• Benthic zone is the layer closer to the bottom of a water body, whereas pelagic zone refers to the uppermost layers of a water body. • Organisms that live in the benthic region are coined as ’benthos’, and organisms found in the pelagic zones are referred as pelagic organisms. • Referring to the open sea, benthic zone is characterized by low temperatures, low dissolved oxygen levels, low/no light, and high pressures.
The cephalopods are the most advanced mollusks and include the octopus, squid, and cuttlefish. Of these, only the octopus is really considered benthic. Other than the cuttlefish, these do not appear to have shells. In fact, both squid and octopi have a beak made of shell material. If you try, you can get a squid to bite you. Since there is a huge variety of benthic habitats, mud, sand, rocks, shallow, deep, there is a huge variety of benthic organisms. What they mostly have in common is that they don't swim, at least not much. Nearly every category of animal is included in the benthos. There are the sponges.
Those of the giant squids reach a length of 10 meters for the tentacles, and 3 meters for the arms. The tentacles are what are used to catch prey. The lower surface of these arms is covered with two rows of suckers. The tentacles of squid and octopi do have a difference. Squids have extra armature-hooks on the sucker rings. The pattern in which squid move, pumping water through the mantle, is also how squid breathe. Most sea animals have visible gills, but squids do not possess gills like most fish do, instead they obtain oxygen through a pair of long ‘gills’ covered in leaflets called lamellae.
Squids belong to the group of mollusks called cephalopods, which include octopi, cuttlefish, etc. Under this order, there are many subcategories of squid. The pattern in which squid move, pumping water through the mantle, is also how squid breathe. Most sea animals have visible gills, but squids do not possess gills like most fish do, instead they obtain oxygen through a pair of long ‘gills’ covered in leaflets called lamellae.
Oceanic Zones. There are four major oceanic zones where plants and animals live in the ocean. The four major zones are intertidal zone, neritic zone, open ocean zone and benthic zone. These zones contain the largest ecosystem on Earth. Animals found in this zone include the giant squid, deep sea hatchetfish and bioluminescent jellyfish. Benthic zone. The benthic zone includes the entire seafloor. About 200,000 species of plants and animals live here.
The mantle is about 2 m (6.6 ft) long (more for females, less for males), and the length of the squid excluding its tentacles (but including head and arms) rarely exceeds 5 m (16 ft). Claims of specimens measuring 20 m (66 ft) or more have not been scientifically documented. Giant squid and some other large squid species maintain neutral buoyancy in seawater through an ammonium chloride solution which is found throughout their bodies and is lighter than seawater. This differs from the method of flotation used by most fish, which involves a gas-filled swim bladder.