Nucleotides are organic molecules that serve as the monomers, or subunits, of nucleic acids like DNA and RNA. The building blocks of nucleic acids, nucleotides are composed of a nitrogenous base, a five-carbon sugar (ribose or deoxyribose), and at least one phosphate group.
A nucleotide is a monomer of a nucleic acid consisting of 3 parts. These 3 parts include a pentose sugar, a phosphate group, and a nitrogenous base. The nitrogenous bases include purines (adenine and guanine) and pyrimidines (cytosine and thymine). Sugar, phosphate group, and a nitrogen base(base pair). There are also some exotic, artificial nucleotides with different types of sugars with different numbers of carbon atoms and/or different functional groups.
Nucleotide Definition: A nucleotide is an organic molecule made up of a nucleotide base, a five-carbon sugar (ribose or deoxyribose) and at least one phosphate group. Nucleotides make up the basic units of DNA and RNA molecules.
Answer: Both deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) and ribonucleic acid (RNA) are made up of nucleotides which consist of three parts: 1  Nitrogenous Base. 2  Purines and pyrimidines are the two categories of nitrogenous bases. 3  Pentose Sugar. 4  In DNA, the sugar is 2'-deoxyribose. 5  Phosphate Group. 6  A single phosphate group is PO 4 3- .
The nitrogenous bases are Adenine which pairs with Thymine and Cytosine which pairs with Guanine. Nucleotide polymers, (chains of nucleotides) are made up of nucleotides linked to the-OH group on the 3' carbon of one nucleotide and the phosphate on the 5' of the following nucleotide.
Nucleotides are the 'rung' or 'dowel-like' structures that hold the  DNA strand together. Nucleotides consist of Purines (adenine and  Guanine) and Pyrimidines (Thymine and … Cytosine) {{ A to T....G to  C}}   A neucleotide is an organic compound that is made up of three  joined structures.
A molecule consisting of a nitrogenous base (adenine, guanine, thymine, or cytosine in DNA; adenine, guanine, uracil, or cytosine in RNA), a phosphate group, and a sugar (deoxyribose in DNA; ribose in RNA). DNA and RNA are polymers of many nucleotides.