Many of our adhesives have passed ISO 10993 certification for cytotoxicity, irritation and sensitization, or systemic toxicity. Our medical device adhesives are designed to meet our customers' exact specifications, and our ISO 13485 certification ensures that they are consistently made—the same way every time. Because adhesive failure could mean the difference between life and death, at Cyberbond we strive to guarantee the reliability of your medical device adhesives (learn more about surface treatment for hard-to-bond & clean substrates) .
The What and How of Adhesives. Cyanoacrylate or CA glue has changed the way models are built more than any other advance in modeling technology. In the good ol' days, model cement like Ambroid, Duco, Comet, and Sigment were the glues of choice. This is because longer cure times allow the glue to get good penetration into the pieces being joined. It also allows the molecules in the glue to align better, which gives the joint its strength. Epoxies can cause skin allergies, so any amount that gets onto the skin should be immediately cleaned off.
Accelerator (or activator) is a liquid chemical that comes in a spray bottle or aerosol can for use in speeding up the cure time of all CA types. It should be misted on, not sprayed heavily on the joint. The glue will instantly harden. Accelerator may cause exposed CA to bubble and sometimes change color. This is because longer cure times allow the glue to get good penetration into the pieces being joined. It also allows the molecules in the glue to align better, which gives the joint its strength. Epoxies can cause skin allergies, so any amount that gets onto the skin should be immediately cleaned off.
Works just like advertised. Very easy product to use even for beginners. Just place a bead of the glue on one side of the stone and bring the two halves together. Once they are positioned how you want them, spray the activator on the glued seam and it cures in seconds. 1 No nails, clamps or fastening devices are necessary to hold parts together as it bonds in mere seconds. 2  Instantbond is a new to the market instant adhesive and sold with an aerosol spray accelerator in a kit form.
Internet # 203082931. Instantbond is the fastest curing high performance cyanoacrylate adhesive superglue. When used together with the activator spray, bonding time is reduced to mere seconds, at an incredible 5000lb. psi bonding strength which is nearly impossible to break. 1 No nails, clamps or fastening devices are necessary to hold parts together as it bonds in mere seconds. 2  Instantbond is a new to the market instant adhesive and sold with an aerosol spray accelerator in a kit form.
I just read about these substances that are usually sold in mini spray bottles or aerosol cans. They are supposed to be very useful when you apply a cyanoacrylate (CA) glue (aka superglue, etc.) over a somewhat large, flat surface, as they enhance the alkaline conditions to speed up the polymerization of the CA. The way they work is through a chemical reaction between the cyanoacrylate and water vapor in the air. So, if you provide more water for the glue to react with, it will set faster. A word of advice: this doesn't mean you can submerge the glue in water to set it.
Apply CA glue to any missed areas. Spray a light spritz of Satellite City's NCF Quick or (if working with foam) Spray'N'Cure accelerator over the entire surface. For best results, spray from 2-3 feet above and with the bottle to the side of work. Because all the fibers are completely surrounded with Hot Stuff thin or UFO Odorless thin CA glue, cutting, drilling, or sanding doesn't cause fraying and sanding does't create all of those little fiberglass needles. UFO Odorless thin CA glue MUST be used for white foam, as other CA glue will attack it.
1 It is the only adhesive with the ability to bond and harden on demand in one second when the aerosol activator is applied just apply the adhesive on one side of the material, spray the accelerator on the other side (for the fastest bond), press them together, align quickly, and your done. 1 No nails, clamps or fastening devices are necessary to hold parts together as it bonds in mere seconds. 2  Instantbond is a new to the market instant adhesive and sold with an aerosol spray accelerator in a kit form.