At a bare minimum, that policy should include MDM (mobile device management) which gives the company the ability to remotely wipe a device in the case of loss or theft. Next, your policy should absolutely mandate that any device that connects to or holds company data be encrypted at the disk level.
Bring your own device (BYOD) policies are making a significant impact on the workplace. Employers create BYOD policies to meet employee demands and keep employees connected. They may also do it to save money by eliminating the need for company plans and devices.
He adds that if you don't work to prevent theft of your secrets, you'll be out of luck later: If you put policies and protocols in place first, then if they are stolen you'll have a reasonable argument that they are trade secrets because you took responsible steps to protect them, he says.
Get rid of BYOD. Bring-Your-Own-Device policies are dangerous, Long-Daniels warns. Instead he suggests buying your employees smartphones so you can control the information flow--it's expensive, but a great investment.
So given the risk of laptop theft and the potential losses that laptop theft can cause, what are some of the steps that individuals and organizations can implement to prevent it. Cables. One of the cheapest and most cost effective solutions to deter thieves is to attach a security cable to your laptop.
Harrison offers five tips for how to protect your company's data from your employees' personal devices. Remote wipe and lock. Due to the nature of mobile devices, many device management solutions are focused on securing the device if it is lost or stolen.
Exposing sensitive company data is always a fear &#8212 BYOD or not. But employees bringing in their own devices adds an extra layer to that fear sandwich. People lose smartphones and tablets. These devices also get stolen frequently.
Since it seems that BYOD is quickly becoming the new standard in workplace technology rather than an exception, we wanted find out how companies who are already investing in a BYOD workplace, or are planning to do so in the near future, are keeping their data secure.
Bring Your Own Device (BYOD) is getting increasing focus as the variety of platforms and devices consumers choose for their personal computing tasks explodes, and they expect to be able to use those same devices and platforms in the workplace.
When the employee is in IT or security, the access to confidential data is even greater. According to a 2008 study by Cyber-Ark Software, almost 90% of IT employees indicated they would take sensitive company data if they were laid off.