tin oxide (SnO), n a polishing agent in the form of a purified white powder, prepared as a paste with glycerine or water. 
Blue-black SnO can be produced by heating the tin(II) oxide hydrate, SnO.xH 2. Metastable, red SnO can be prepared by gentle heating of the precipitate produced by the action of aqueous ammonia on a tin(II) salt. SnO is amphoteric, dissolving in strong acid to give tin(II) salts and in strong base to give stannites containing Sn(OH) 3 − . It can be a dissolves in strong acid solutions to give the ionic complexes Sn(OH 2) 3 2+ and Sn(OH)(OH 2) 2 + , and in less acid solutions to give Sn 3 (OH) 4 2+ .
Tin (IV) Oxide occurs naturally but is purified by reduction to the metal followed by burning tin in air. Annual production is in the range of 10 kilotons. SnO 2 is reduced industrially to the metal with carbon in a reverberatory furnace at 1200-1300 °C. The mineral form of SnO 2 is called cassiterite, and this is the main ore of tin. With many other names (see infobox), this oxide of tin is the most important raw material in tin chemistry.
SnO may be prepared as a pure substance in the laboratory, by controlled heating of tin(II) oxalate (stannous oxalate) in the absence of air or under a CO 2 atmosphere. This method is also applied to the production of ferrous oxide and manganous oxide. SnO is amphoteric, dissolving in strong acid to give tin(II) salts and in strong base to give stannites containing Sn(OH) 3 − . It can be a dissolves in strong acid solutions to give the ionic complexes Sn(OH 2) 3 2+ and Sn(OH)(OH 2) 2 + , and in less acid solutions to give Sn 3 (OH) 4 2+ .
It is not named tin dioxide because Tin is a Type II Metal, and so is named Tin (IV) Oxide by nomenclature. The mineral form of SnO 2 is called cassiterite, and this is the main ore of tin. With many other names (see infobox), this oxide of tin is the most important raw material in tin chemistry. This colourless, diamagnetic solid is amphoteric
Tin(II) oxide (stannous oxide) is a compound with the formula SnO. It is composed of tin and oxygen where tin has the oxidation state of +2. There are two forms, a stable blue-black form and a metastable red form. SnO is amphoteric, dissolving in strong acid to give tin(II) salts and in strong base to give stannites containing Sn(OH) 3 − . It can be a dissolves in strong acid solutions to give the ionic complexes Sn(OH 2) 3 2+ and Sn(OH)(OH 2) 2 + , and in less acid solutions to give Sn 3 (OH) 4 2+ .
Tin(IV) oxide, also known as tin dioxide or staniss Baretheon cal compound. Its chemical formula SnO 2. It has tin and oxide ions in it. It has tin in its +4 oxidation state. 
Shares & Saves. Save. Jupiterimages/Photos.com/Getty Images. Tin oxide is an inorganic compound consisting of tin and oxygen. It is commonly used to create customized glass by giving transparent glass an opaque, porcelain-like, opaque appearance. Tin oxide has also proven to be a highly effective polishing material for glass and quarried rock, such as marble, granite and quartz. In a similar chemical reaction to that with glass, tin oxide restores the luster of a stone surface--especially marble flooring--that's become dull over time.
Fluorine-doped tin oxide (FTO) coated glass is electrically conductive and ideal for use in a wide range of devices, including applications such as opto-electronics, touch screen displays, thin film photovoltaics, energy-saving windows, RFI/EMI shielding and other electro-optical and insulating applications. 
About TIN OXIDE: Tin oxide is an inorganic oxide that is naturally found in mineral form. 