Temperature/pressure-relief or TPR valves are safety devices installed on water heating appliances, such as boilers and domestic water supply heaters. TPRs are designed to automatically release water in the event that pressure or temperature in the water tank exceeds safe levels. The valve should be connected to a discharge pipe (also called a drain line) that runs down the length of the water heater tank. This pipe is responsible for routing hot water released from the TPR to a proper discharge location.
A TPR valve or temperature pressure relief valve is a device that is placed on water heaters to allow the discharge of excessive pressure, or excessive temperature or both. What does all that mean? Well a TPR valve will open when pressure inside of a water heater tank reaches 150PSI or 210 degrees farenheit. The First Line of Protection. Current water heaters contain high-limit controls or thermostaically controlled devices that help prevent the overheating of a waterheater.
The TPR valve will activate if either water temperature (measured in degrees Fahrenheit) or pressure (measured in pounds per square inch [PSI]) exceed safe levels. The valve should be connected to a discharge pipe (also called a drain line) that runs down the length of the water heater tank. This pipe is responsible for routing hot water released from the TPR to a proper discharge location.
Water heater relief valve, T&P or TPR valve is a safety device that is temperature and pressure sensitive and designed to limit its levels in the tank type heaters. Once the relieving point of the water heater relief valve is reached, it will release the excess pressure with the hot water and allow cooler water to enter the tank and lower the temperature. The T&P regulator has a probe immersed in the first six inches of the water heater, to measure the stored water
My hot water heater TPR (Temperature Pressure Relief) valve was leaking and needed replaced. This video shows the replacement of the valve and shows how easy it is to do (because I am doing it so it's gotta be super easy.). Watch this video to see how easy the replacement job is and save yourself from calling a plumber. 
The name is Temperature Pressure Relief Valve (TPR valve). This safety valve releases water (and thus relieves pressure) if either the temperature or pressure in the tank gets too high. These valves are very important. May Be High Tank Pressure The other reason for the TPR valve to run water is high pressure in the water heater tank. This is usually caused by one of two things -- high main water pressure (water district or well) or a back flow prevention/check valve. Backflow Valves
The relief valve (RV) is a type of valve used to control or limit the pressure in a system or vessel which can build up for a process upset, instrument or equipment failure, or fire. 1 Pressure relief valve (PRV) or Pressure Release valve (PRV) or pressure safety valve (PSV): The difference is that PSVs have a manual lever to activate the valve in case of emergency.
A temperature and pressure (T & P) relief valve is the primary back-up safety device that prevents water in a pressurized hot water heater from overheating. A T & P relief valve is a two-in-one safety device, which responds both to excessive temperature and to excessive pressure in a water heater. A Temperature and Pressure (T & P) relief valve is the primary back-up safety devic e that prevents water in a pressurized hot water heater from overheating. A T & P relief valve is a two-in-one safety device, which responds both to excessive temperature and to excessive pressure in a water heater.