Saint George is one of the most important Christian saints in Orthodox churches: the patron saint of Slav, Georgian and Circassian Christian warriors, Cossacks, Chetniks, and armies. This holiday is attached to the tradition of celebrating the beginning of spring. In Croatia, the Catholic version of St.George's day, Jurjevo is celebrated on April 23 by the Gregorian calendar. The tradition is mostly celebrated in northern Croatia, in Zagreb County. According to tradition this day marks the beginning of spring. The use of bonfires is similar to Walpurgis Night.
Ðurđevdan  is also the name of a popular song by band Bijelo dugme. The song is originally found on their studio album Ćiribiribela from 1988. It is a cover song (with different lyrics) for a popular traditional folk song of the Romani,  Ederlezi . In Croatia, the Catholic version of St.George's day, Jurjevo is celebrated on April 23 by the Gregorian calendar. The tradition is mostly celebrated in northern Croatia, in Zagreb County. According to tradition this day marks the beginning of spring. The use of bonfires is similar to Walpurgis Night.
There is also another song's version made by Kroke. Ederlezi has been used for the movie Time of the Gypsies by Emir Kusturica, in Goran Bregović 's version (titled Ederlezi (Scena Djurdjevdana Na Rijeci)), which actually made the song famous.
Đurđevdan is also celebrated by the Gorani from the Gora region in southern Kosovo. The Gorani are a Slavic Muslim group, who converted from Orthodox Christianity to Islam during the 18th century but kept a few Serbian – Christian traditions, including Đurđevdan. In Croatia, the Catholic version of St.George's day, Jurjevo is celebrated on April 23 by the Gregorian calendar. The tradition is mostly celebrated in northern Croatia, in Zagreb County. According to tradition this day marks the beginning of spring. The use of bonfires is similar to Walpurgis Night.
The song “Djurdjevdan” stayed as a testimony of their path of no return. The song Djurdjevdan is created in the train to Jasenovac. On that St. George’s Day the whole Universe cried over the destiny of Serbian people. Bloodthirsty hordes and armed scum sent off innocent people into casemate. At the regular session of the Holy Assembly of Bishops of the Serbian Orthodox Church in 1998, Vukasin, from Klepci village, was entered into the List of Names of the Serbian Orthodox Church as a saint. His feast day is May 16th (Julian Calendar).
Explanation guidelines: 1  Describe what artist is trying to say in a certain line, whether it's personal feelings, strong statement or something else. 2  Provide song facts, names, places and other worthy info that may give readers a perfect insight on the song's meaning. 
The song got its name from Ederlezi which is a Spring festival, especially celebrated by Romani people in the Balkans, Turkey and elsewhere around the world. This holiday celebrates the return of springtime. Ederlezi is the Romani name for the Bulgarian, Macedonian and Serbian Feast of Saint George. Ederlezi has been used for the movie Time of the Gypsies by Emir Kusturica, in Goran Bregović 's version (titled Ederlezi (Scena Djurdjevdana Na Rijeci)), which actually made the song famous.
Bijelo Dugme (trans. White Button) was a Yugoslav rock band, based in Sarajevo. Bijelo Dugme is widely considered to have been the most popular band ever to exist in the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and one of the most important acts of the Yugoslav rock scene. At this time, the band adopted the name Bijelo Dugme. They decided to change the name because of the argument with Aranautalić, but partially because of another, Ljubljana-based band with the name Jutro. As the band was already known for the song Kad bi' bio bijelo dugme, they choose
“Ederlezi” (Djurdjevdan) is a popular traditional folk song of the Romani minority in the Balkans. The former Yugoslav rock band Bijelo Dugme released a cover version of this song in Serbo-Croatian using the same melody, but with very different lyrics. The song became a planetary hit sang in several languages. Adblocking costs websites money, and independent media such is InSerbia finance themselves through online ads. Please protect the future of the free internet by re-establishing a fair deal between web users and the content creators who you want to support and enable Ads on our website. Thank You!