Both spiders will cause similar symptoms. These include chills, which are rarely accompanied by a fever, muscle spasms, vomiting and nausea, headache, abdominal pain, a rash, and joint stiffness. However, they do differ in accordance with the appearance of the spider bite.
Chills and fever can be caused by fairly benign conditions, such as a cold, or by serious conditions, such as influenza, malaria or meningitis. Chills and fever are more common in children than adults because even minor illnesses produce a fever in children. Children also tend to get higher fevers than adults. Chills are often related to fever, an increase in body temperature above normal (98.6 degrees Fahrenheit). Fever is a sign of inflammation or infection in the body.
The right treatment for body chills with fever depends on the cause, and that's where your doctor might need to step in. Call your doctor if: 1  The fever is accompanied by serious symptoms like shortness of breath, neck stiffness, headache, rash, swelling of a joint, abdominal pain, or extreme fatigue. 2  The fever is high, or lasts longer than two or three days. 3  You have any serious medical issues and develop a fever.
Causes of Chills without Fever. If your chills do not coincide with a fever, it may mean you have one of the following conditions: Prescription drugs: Chills can be a side effect of prescription drugs, if the prescription is incorrect or an individual is using them in an abusive manner. These include chills, which are rarely accompanied by a fever, muscle spasms, vomiting and nausea, headache, abdominal pain, a rash, and joint stiffness. However, they do differ in accordance with the appearance of the spider bite.
However, bacterial meningitis infections are very serious and life-threatening. Symptoms like chills, high fever, headache, neck stiffness, nausea, vomiting, increased sensitivity to light, and confusion indicate brain infection. The condition needs immediate medical attention. Pneumonia: Shaking chills and mild or high fever are common symptoms of pneumonia. Breathing difficulty, chest pain, cough, and headache are some other symptoms. Strep Throat: This bacterial infection can cause sudden fever, and in some cases, chills may also be experienced.
When you have the chills, you may also be shivering or look pale. Chills are often related to fever, an increase in body temperature above normal (98.6 degrees Fahrenheit). Fever is a sign of inflammation or infection in the body.
Chills (shivering) may occur at the beginning of an infection and are usually associated with a fever. Chills are caused by rapid muscle contraction and relaxation. They are the body's way of producing heat when it feels cold. Chills often predict the coming of a fever or an increase in the body's core temperature. Fever (which can accompany chills) is the body's natural response to a variety of conditions, such as infection. If the fever is mild (102°F or less) with no side effects, no professional treatment is required. Drink lots of fluids and get plenty of rest. Evaporation cools the skin and thereby reduces body
A fever -- also known as a high fever or a high temperature -- is not by itself an illness. It's usually a symptom of an underlying condition, most often an infection. Fever is usually associated with physical discomfort, and most people feel better when a fever is treated. 
Chills and fever are the body's mechanisms to maintain its temperature at an optimum level. Both these signs indicate that the body is fighting against some kind of infection. This article gives you a brief understanding about your body's mechanism, and the conditions that cause chills with fever. Pneumonia: Shaking chills and mild or high fever are common symptoms of pneumonia. Breathing difficulty, chest pain, cough, and headache are some other symptoms. Strep Throat: This bacterial infection can cause sudden fever, and in some cases, chills may also be experienced.
They may arise with or without fever. Without fever, chills typically arise after exposure to a cold environment. Essentially any condition that may produce fever (including infections and cancers) can result in chills along with fever. Fever and chills are common symptoms of influenza infection (the flu). Exposure to a cold environment can result in chills. Leptospirosis Leptospirosis is an infectious disease that causes symptoms such as fever, headache, and chills.