Freezer Temperature. Freezers should maintain a temperature of 0 F, or about -18 C. This temperature will stop the growth of bacteria but will not kill it. Although the taste of frozen food will deteriorate over time, colder temperatures will preserve flavors longer. A thermometer should be used to check the temperature of the freezer. The thermometer should be placed near the front of the freezer and checked at least once a week to assure that the freezer is maintaining the proper temperature.
To make sure your freezer is running at the correct temperature, get a freezer thermometer to monitor the temperature, and make sure you defrost your freezer every once in awhile to make sure it's running efficiently. Kitchen Fact Source: Freezing and Food Safety at the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA). Turns out the temperature at which food freezes and the freezer temperature it should be stored at can be two different things. Even if your freezer seems to be doing its job, you should know the correct temperature to set it to! Kitchen Fact: The ideal temperature range for your freezer is 0° Fahrenheit or below (-18° Celsius or below
Freezer Upright and Chest Temperatures. The correct operating temperature of chest and upright freezers, including smaller, compact models is -5 to +5 degrees Fahrenheit. In order to take the temperature of solid food, place a thermometer between frozen packages or in some ice cream. Your chest freezer has a test position on the temperature monitor control. In order to verify that the buzzer is working, just put the switch in the test position and turn the thermostat to the coldest setting. The buzzer should go off within 10 to 15 seconds.
If you have an upright freezer, you will need to keep the temperature regulated to minus 10 degrees Fahrenheit. To be sure it is set correctly, and calibrated, pick up another thermometer at a hardware or home improvement store. Attach it with some wire or string beside of the upright freezer's thermometer. Check to be sure both are at the same temperature after 24 hours. If your upright freezer is warmer than the thermometer, you may lower the temperature. If it is colder, then you will not have to do anything. Check the thermometers monthly to be sure it is running cold enough to keep foods safe
The ideal freezer temperature is 0 Fahrenheit (-18 Celsius) for storing food. And -10 Fahrenheit (-23 Celsius) is recommended when freezing food. The faster food freezes the smaller the ice crystals. The smaller the ice crystals the smaller the change in texture and better quality when thawed. MYTH: A freezer that is too cold causes freezer burn. Temperature does not cause freezer burn. Freezer burn is the dehydration of your food by air. The moisture leaves the food, entering the air in the freezer.
If you want to test your freezer to see what temperature it is use a freezer thermometer. Ideally read the thermometer after the freezer door has been closed for quite awhile, like first thing in the morning, so you get an accurate reading. MYTH: A freezer that is too cold causes freezer burn. Temperature does not cause freezer burn. Freezer burn is the dehydration of your food by air. The moisture leaves the food, entering the air in the freezer.
Upright freezers have a temperature control that allows you to adjust the temperature inside the freezer. Proper adjustment of the temperature control is important to maintain the appropriate temperature to keep foods safe and flavorful. A thermometer should be used to check the temperature of the freezer. The thermometer should be placed near the front of the freezer and checked at least once a week to assure that the freezer is maintaining the proper temperature.