NADH is also an important antioxidant; in fact, scientists acknowledge that NADH is the most powerful antioxidant to protect cells from damage by harmful substances. In summary, NADH is a highly powerful form of vitamin B 3 commonly referred to as niacin or niacinamide. NADH is a coenzyme. The “H” stands for high-energy hydrogen and indicates that this substance is in the most biologically active form possible. Often referred to as coenzyme 1, NADH is the body’s top-ranked coenzyme, a facilitator of numerous biological reactions. NADH is necessary for cellular development and energy pro­duction: It is essential to produce energy from food and is the principal carrier of electrons in the energy-producing process in the cells
NADH. the reduced form of nicotinamide-adenine dinucleotide. NADH-methemoglobin reductase. the enzyme in the erythrocyte that converts methemoglobin to hemoglobin, which is the form responsible for the transport of oxygen. 1  Facebook. 
NADH Overview Information. NADH stands for nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD) + hydrogen (H).. This chemical occurs naturally in the body and plays a role in the chemical process that generates energy. People use NADH supplements as medicine
NADH is often promoted as a supplement for general health and nutritional enhancement. (Click NADH Benefits for more information.). NADH is a molecule that works as a coenzyme in the human body. Coenzymes help other enzymes work in chemical reactions. Many essential chemical reactions in the body use NADH. It is not known exactly how supplementation could work for various conditions, especially since the body can make its own. 
NADH, short for nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide, is an important pyridine nucleotide that functions as an oxidative cofactor in eukaryotic cells. NADH plays a key role in the production of energy through redox reactions. Nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD) is one of the most important coenzymes in the cell. Not surprisingly, NAD and the closely related NADP are the two most abundant cofactors in eukaryotic cell.
In metabolism, nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide is involved in redox reactions, carrying electrons from one reaction to another. The coenzyme is, therefore, found in two forms in cells: NAD + is an oxidizing agent – it accepts electrons from other molecules and becomes reduced. This reaction forms NADH, which can then be used as a reducing agent to donate electrons. These electron transfer reactions are the main function of NAD. Nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide, like all dinucleotide s, consists of two nucleotides joined by a pair of bridging phosphate groups. The nucleotides consist of ribose rings, one with adenine attached to the first carbon atom (the 1' position) and the other with nicotinamide at this position.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: NADH is a high energy molecule used by cells to generate ATP. H+ is the proton that is snatched away from the NADH leaving behind, NAD. H+ is a hydrogen ion minus an electron. the electron is carried in NADH and used to make atp via the electron transport system.
Nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD) is a coenzyme found in all living cells. The compound is a dinucleotide, because it consists of two nucleotides joined through their phosphate groups. One nucleotide contains an adenine base and the other nicotinamide. Nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide exists in two forms, an oxidized and reduced form abbreviated as NAD+ and NADH respectively. Nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide, like all dinucleotide s, consists of two nucleotides joined by a pair of bridging phosphate groups. The nucleotides consist of ribose rings, one with adenine attached to the first carbon atom (the 1' position) and the other with nicotinamide at this position.