Photosynthesis is a chemical process that occurs in many forms of bacteria and virtually all plants, including aquatic plants and algae. Using just three simple ingredients (carbon dioxide, water, and sunlight) plants and bacteria are able to make their own food. 
Photosynthesis is the process by which green plants and certain other organisms transform light energy into chemical energy. Photosynthesis in green plants harnesses the energy of sunlight to convert carbon dioxide, water, and minerals into organic compounds and gaseous oxygen.
Overview. Photosynthesis is the process by which plants convert light from the sun into chemical energy that aids in their growth and provides nutrients to other organisms that consume them. The process of photosynthesis is essential to life by making the sun's energy available to living organisms. During photosynthesis, the water molecule is broken into hydrogen and oxygen. The hydrogen atoms are used to form a carrier molecule called NADPH that, later in the photosynthesis process, is broken down to form glucose, a sugar that organisms commonly use for energy.
Plants and photosynthesis. Animals eat food to get their energy. But green plants don't. Instead they make their own food, glucose, in a process called photosynthesis. We say that plants can photosynthesise. These are the things that plants need for photosynthesis: carbon dioxide. water. light. 
Oxygen is produced as a by-product. This process is called photosynthesis. Temperature, carbon dioxide concentration and light intensity are factors that can limit the rate of photosynthesis. Plants also need mineral ions, including nitrate and magnesium, for healthy growth. They suffer from poor growth in conditions where mineral ions are deficient. It uses light energy to convert carbon dioxide and water into glucose. Oxygen is produced as a by-product of photosynthesis. ] is the chemical change which happens in the leaves of green plants. It is the first step towards making food-not just for plants but ultimately every animal on the planet.
1 Photosynthesis – The process of capturing light energy and converting it to sugar energy, in the presence of chlorophyll using carbon dioxide and water. 2  Respiration – The process of metabolizing (burning) sugars to yield energy for growth, reproduction, and other life processes. In photosynthesis, the plant uses water and nutrients from the soil, and carbon dioxide from the air with the sun’s energy to create photosynthates. Oxygen is releases as a byproduct. Figure 2.
Submit. Photosynthesis is the process by which plants convert light from the sun into chemical energy that aids in their growth and provides nutrients to other organisms that consume them. The process of photosynthesis is essential to life by making the sun's energy available to living organisms. During photosynthesis, the water molecule is broken into hydrogen and oxygen. The hydrogen atoms are used to form a carrier molecule called NADPH that, later in the photosynthesis process, is broken down to form glucose, a sugar that organisms commonly use for energy.
Photosynthesis and cellular respiration are complementary reactions. Cellular respiration is the process by which most cells make energy. The products of photosynthesis, oxygen and glucose, are the reactants of the cellular respiration reaction. In turn, the products of cellular respiration, carbon dioxide and water, are the reactants in photosynthesis. Save. Flickr.com. Photosynthetic organisms use light energy from the sun to transform two reactants, carbon dioxide and water, into sugar and oxygen gas. Green plants, algae and some bacteria can perform photosynthesis and are responsible for oxygenating the Earth's atmosphere.
Just like how humans need energy, protein, and nutrients to grow, so do plants. So no, plants need photosynthesis to grow. Photosynthesis is a process where light energy from the sun is converted to chemical energy that is stored in bond of sugar. 