Without further ado, here are the Dos and Don'ts of Classroom Management: Your 25 Best Tips: Each classroom is different, so please come back and share what you've learned and what works for you! NOTE: If you're having trouble viewing the presentation, click here to view it directly.
When you refer students for these kinds of infractions, you convey the message: “I don’t know how to deal with you, so I need someone to do it for me.” In essence, you hand over control of your classroom. 10. Redirect Students with Questions Avoid calling on a student to answer a question when he is off-task.
“Using ‘I’ messages and not ‘you, you, you’ messages is important because it doesn’t put someone on the defensive.”. Following these dos and don’ts should help you run a smoother classroom and allow students to be academically engaged instead of engaging in arguments. Illustration By Dave Clark.
You labored all night creating a thoughtful, engaging lesson. You were confident that your students would enjoy it, only to have your excitement—and theirs—dashed by the antics of a handful of students. You spent all your time writing names on the board, calling out troublemakers’ names, and “ssshh-ing” them.
Middle School Dos and Don'ts. Editor's Note: Some of these pointers are taken from the notebook of a 7th and 8th grade teacher, and are reprinted here with her permission. TeachersFirst staff members have added additional ideas. • Do treat the students like responsible young adults. 99% of them will rise to the occasion.
I love these tips to help promote classroom structure therefore a more optimal learning environment. I think one of the best tips offered through this post is tip #5 = pick your battles. I think it is an important lesson to learn.
10 One-to-One Classroom Tips. Each morning, when Laura Rahn’s class of fourth grade students entered their classroom at Mountainview Elementary School in Loudoun County, VA, they got their laptops from the charging station, completed their daily math fluency practice, and checked EdModo for the day’s instructions.