Tortoises and turtles are both reptiles from the order of Testudines, but in different classification families. The major difference between the two is that tortoises dwell on land, while turtles live in the water some or nearly all of the time. The bodies of tortoises and turtles are both shielded by a shell, the upper part of which is called carapace, with the lower portion called a plastron.
The main difference is in that Tortoises are land dwellers, while turtles live in water. The body of a turtle as well as a tortoise is protected by a shell. The carapace is the upper part of the shell while the plastron is the lower part. A bridge attaches the carapace and the plastron.
Turtles and tortoises are closely related. They are both reptiles from the same family (Testudines or Chelonian). The main difference between the two is that turtle is the name given to water-dwellers and tortoise is the name given to land-dwellers.
A division of reptiles, called chelonians, includes turtles, tortoises, and terrapins. For the most part, the difference between a turtle and tortoise is more of a rough seman … tic category than a strict taxonomic separation. Colloquially, both biologists and lay people use the word, turtle to mean all chelonians.
Differences between turtles and tortoises include: 1  Turtles primarily live in water (fresh water and oceans) and so have webbed front feet or flipper-like fins to make swimming easier. 2  Tortoises live almost exclusively on land, so do not have flippers, but normal feet without webbing, often with sharp claws for digging.
A division of reptiles called chelonia includes turtles, tortoises and terrapins. For the most part, the difference between a turtle and a tortoise is more of a matter of semantics than a strict scientific separation. Colloquially, both biologists and laypeople use the word turtle to mean all chelonians.
Another difference between a turtle and a tortoise is that a tortoise is mostly herbivorous. It typically eats grasses, flowers and weeds. Tortoises also eat shrubs, cacti and other plants that have a lot of moisture. They sometimes eat fruit and leafy greens, especially in captivity.
Turtles and tortoises are both reptiles in the order Testudines that are characterized by the bony or cartilaginous shells formed from their ribs. Differentiating between the two can become complicated due to regional differences in semantics, but there are some easy ways to separate the groups scientifically.