n. 3. (Chemistry) a liquid capable of dissolving another substance: water is a solvent for salt. 4. (Chemistry) the component of a solution that does not change its state in forming the solution or the component that is present in excess. Compare solute. 5. something that solves.
Definition. A solvent is the solution, liquid, or gas part of the solute concentration. The definition of solute concentration is the amount of solutes/particles that are dissolved in a solution. Together the solute and the solvent become the solution. There are two other definitions required for your understanding of this lesson. First let's define rate of solution. A solvent is the solution part of the solute concentration. It's usually in a liquid state, but it can be a liquid, a solid, or a gas. The most common solvent is water-it is known as the universal solvent. The factor that most influences the rate of solution is the amount of solute already dissolved in the solution.
Share. Solvent Definition: The component of a solution that is present in the greatest amount. It is the substance in which the solute is dissolved. Examples: The solvent for seawater is water. 
Solvents are liquids or gases that can dissolve or extract other substances. They are used to dissolve grease, oil, and paint; to thin or mix pigments, paint, glue, pesticides, and epoxy resins; to clean electronics, automotive parts, tools, and engines; and to make other chemicals. The term solvents usually refers to organic solvents, which contain carbon. Organic solvents can be classified into three main types: oxygenated solvents, hydrocarbon solvents, and halogenated solvents. Oxygenated solvents contain oxygen and are synthesized from
Water is a solvent for polar molecules and the most common solvent used by living things; all the ions and proteins in a cell are dissolved in water within a cell. Water is a protic solvent. Aprotic solvents such as acetone or dichloromethane tend to have large dipole moments (separation of partial positive and partial negative charges within the same molecule) and solvate positively charged species via their negative dipole.
A solvent (from the Latin solvō, I loosen, untie, I solve) is a substance that dissolves a solute (a chemically different liquid, solid or gas), resulting in a solution. A solvent is usually a liquid but can also be a solid or a gas. Water is a protic solvent. Aprotic solvents such as acetone or dichloromethane tend to have large dipole moments (separation of partial positive and partial negative charges within the same molecule) and solvate positively charged species via their negative dipole.
solvent. 1. dissolving; effecting a solution. 2. a substance, usually a liquid, that dissolves or is capable of dissolving; the component of a solution present in greater amount. (sŏl′vənt). solvent. 1. capable of dissolving other material. 2. the liquid in which another substance (the solute) is dissolved to form a solution. solvent drag. transfer of solutes across the intestinal wall by being carried along with the water flow driven by osmotic gradients across cell membranes.
3. (Chemistry) a liquid capable of dissolving another substance: water is a solvent for salt. 4. (Chemistry) the component of a solution that does not change its state in forming the solution or the component that is present in excess. Compare solute. 2. having the power of dissolving; causing solution. 3. a substance that dissolves another to form a solution: Water is a solvent for sugar. 4. something that solves or explains. solvent-, s. of solvēns, present participle of solvere to loosen.
noun. (Science: Chemistry). 1. A liquid in which substances (or solutes) are dissolved forming a solution. 2. In a solution, the solvent is the one that is usually present in greater amount than the solute. Supplement. The most widely used solvent is water since it dissolves many substances; hence, it is regarded as the ‘universal solvent’