The laboratory hallmark of giant cell arteritis (GCA) is an elevation in the erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) and C-reactive protein (CRP) level. The ESR usually exceeds 50 mm/h and may exceed 100 mm/h, but may be normal in 7-20% of patients with GCA. Although superficial temporal artery biopsy remains the standard for diagnosis of giant cell arteritis (GCA), color duplex ultrasonography can be used to diagnose GCA.
Giant cell arteritis (GCA) is a condition which causes swelling (inflammation) on the inside of some blood vessels (arteries). It is called 'giant cell' because abnormal large cells develop in the wall of the inflamed arteries. 39. The common symptoms of giant cell arteritis are headache, tenderness over one or both sides of the forehead, and feeling unwell. Other symptoms that may occur include pain in your jaw muscles when you chew which eases when you rest the jaw muscles, and visual loss.
Blood tests. If your doctor thinks you might have giant cell arteritis, you're likely to have a blood test that checks your erythrocyte sedimentation rate — commonly referred to as the sed rate. This test measures how quickly red blood cells fall to the bottom of a tube of blood. The best way to confirm a diagnosis of giant cell arteritis is by taking a small sample (biopsy) of the temporal artery. The procedure is performed on an outpatient basis during local anesthesia, usually with little discomfort or scarring. The sample is examined under a microscope in a laboratory.
To help diagnose giant cell arteritis, you may have some or all of the following tests and procedures: 1  Physical exam. 2  In addition to asking about your symptoms and medical history, your doctor is likely to perform a thorough physical exam, paying particular attention to your temporal arteries. The best way to confirm a diagnosis of giant cell arteritis is by taking a small sample (biopsy) of the temporal artery. The procedure is performed on an outpatient basis during local anesthesia, usually with little discomfort or scarring. The sample is examined under a microscope in a laboratory.
Tests and diagnosis. Giant cell arteritis can be difficult to diagnose because its early symptoms resemble those of many common conditions. For this reason, your doctor will try to rule out other possible causes of your problem. The best way to confirm a diagnosis of giant cell arteritis is by taking a small sample (biopsy) of the temporal artery. The procedure is performed on an outpatient basis during local anesthesia, usually with little discomfort or scarring. The sample is examined under a microscope in a laboratory.
Fast Facts. 1  Giant cell arteritis (GCA) is a disease of blood vessels, may occur together with polymyalgia rheumatica. 2  GCA occurs only in older adults, mainly those over age of 50, and can cause swelling and thickening of the small artery under the skin called the temporal artery. 3  A new, persisting headache is a common symptom of GCA. 4  If GCA ... 1 Giant cell arteritis (GCA) is a disease of blood vessels, may occur together with polymyalgia rheumatica. 2  GCA occurs only in older adults, mainly those over age of 50, and can cause swelling and thickening of the small artery under the skin called the temporal artery
GCA is a disease characterised by inflammation of large and medium sized blood vessels. An alternative name for this condition is Temporal Arteritis as the blood vessels in the temple area of the head (sides of the forehead) are commonly affected. The giant cells referred to are specific collections of immune system cells seen in the areas of inflammation if a biopsy is performed.
This inflammation causes the arteries to narrow, impeding adequate blood flow. In giant cell arteritis, the vessels most involved are those of the head, especially the temporal arteries (located on each side of the head). For this reason, the disorder is sometimes called temporal arteritis. The treatment of choice for both polymyalgia rheumatica and giant cell arteritis is corticosteroid medication, such as prednisone. 2. 2 All medicines can have side effects. Some medicines and side effects are mentioned in this publication.
A diagnosis of giant cell arteritis (GCA) is based on: 1  your symptoms. 2  a clinical examination. 3  blood tests. 4  a temporal artery biopsy. 5  an ultrasound scan. 