They also feed on cereal and root crops, and in bad seasons, it has been suggested that they may eat animal corpses. Reproduction: The feamle hare has 3 - 4 litters per year each containing 2 - 4 leverets(young hares). The young are born above ground with a full coat of fur. Gestation Period: Aproximately 42 days.. Hares are distinguished from their relatives the rabbits by their larger size, longer ears and longer hind legs. Normally the two animals do not mix. 
Reproduction: Hares and rabbits reproduce sexually. They exhibit high reproductive rates as a response to the high mortality rates they often suffer at the hands of predation, disease and harsh environmental conditions. Their gestation period averages between 30 and 40 days. Females give birth to between 1 and 9 young and in most species, they produce several litters per year. The young wean at about 1 month of age and reach sexual maturity quickly (in some species, for example, they are sexually mature at just 5 months of age).
Similarities. 1  Both rabbits and hares breed prolifically, bearing four to eight litters each year. 2  A litter of rabbits generally has three to eight young. 3  They have a gestation period of about a month, are sexually mature in about six months, and live in the wild for about six years. 1 They have a gestation period of about a month, are sexually mature in about six months, and live in the wild for about six years. 2  Although rabbits and hares are valued as game by hunters both for their food and fur, they are also pests to farmers and gardeners. 3  They can destroy crops and trees.
Females have, on average, 1 litter per year but can have 2 litters. Litters range in size from 2 to 8 offspring, unlike other members of the genus g. Lepus, of which the litters range from 1 to 4 offspring. The gestation period of Arctic hare is approximately 50 days, and offspring are usually born in May or June. Arctic hare weigh on average 105 g at birth
After 36-37 day gestation period, a female bears her litter of precocial young (eyes open, fully furred, and capable of hopping about soon after birth). Each newborn weighs about 82 g (2.9 oz), and measures 10.5 cm (4 in). Young hares (leverets) are brown, grizzled with black, and have a white blaze on their foreheads. 
(Answer to Pop Quiz). The gestation period for a rabbit is only about 31 days! That's only a one month pregnancy. This short gestation period is one of the many reasons why it is very important to have your rabbit spayed or neutered before they can contribute to the sad problem of rabbit overpopulation. 
Answer   The gestation period, or pregnancy can vary between species, ranging from from 16 days for the Syrian hamster, and up to to 30 days for species of the Dwarf hams … ter.     16 to 30 days. 16 to 30 days. This has happened to me before my hamster is a boy but it spent the night with my friends female and it took about two weeks until the female had babies i'm sure about this... its exactly 16 days!   The gestation period for hamsters ranges from 16 to 21 days.
Mating pairs establish territories of their own. Males will sometimes mate with more than one female in a season. Mating season for arctic hares is in the spring, usually during April and May. After a gestation period of around 50 days, the young hares, called leverets, are born in the late spring or early summer. When they are born, leverets have their eyes open and are already covered in hair. There are usually 2 to 8 leverets in the litter, with the average being about 5 or 6. 
Growth and Reproduction. Conception occurs in April, and they have a gestation period that lasts about 46 days. Most Alaska hares breed in their first year. Young are born in late May or early June in an unlined depression called a form, or in the shelter of thick willow or alder brush. 