If you are taking doxycycline for the prevention of malaria, start taking it 1 or 2 days before traveling to an area where there is malaria. Continue taking doxycycline for 4 weeks after leaving the area where there is malaria. You should not take doxycycline for the prevention of malaria for more than 4 months.
For more severe infections, such as chronic infections of the urinary tract, the recommended dose is 100 mg every 12 hours. In some cases, people may need to take higher doses, 300 mg a day for 10 days. For inhalational anthrax, the usual adult prescription is 100 mg of doxycycline twice a day for 60 days. For the prevention of malaria, you should start taking doxycycline up to two days before traveling. Continue taking the drug for four weeks after you leave an area where malaria is a risk.
Both adults and children should take one dose of doxycycline per day starting a day or two before traveling to the area where malaria transmission occurs. They should take one dose per day while there, and for 28 consecutive days after leaving. The daily dosage for adults is 100mg per day.
For adults, the normal dose of oral doxycycline is 200 mg on the first day of treatment. Usually you take that as two 100-mg doses, 12 hours apart. After this initial dose, people usually take a maintenance dose of 100 mg daily for seven to 10 days.
Tetracycline, is used to treat bacterial infections, including pneumonia and other respiratory tract infections; acne; infections of skin, genital and urinary systems; and the infection that causes stomach ulcers (Helicobacter pylori).
A: Doryx (doxycycline hyclate) is a tetracycline-type antibiotic used to treat bacterial infections (e.g., Rickettsial infections, sexually transmitted infections, respiratory tract infections, ophthalmic infections, Anthrax, adjunctive therapy in acute intestinal amebiasis and severe acne, and prophylaxis of malaria).
Tetracycline comes as a capsule and suspension (liquid) to take by mouth. It is usually taken two to four times daily. Tetracycline should be taken on an empty stomach, at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after meals or snacks.
Doxycycline is a common antibiotic often used for the treatment of various infections, such as bacterial infections, anthrax, malaria, and acne.