Southern Africa, island in the Indian Ocean, east of Mozambique Madagascar is an island off Africa's coast is the fourth largest island in the world. it has a surface area of … 226,444 square miles. 1 Mapping Madagascar The Republic of Madagascar is the fourth largest island in the world, the 47th largest country, and is located off the western side of Africa.
Madagascar is the fourth largest island in the world. It's located off the southeast coast of Africa. Madagascar is home to many animal and plant species that can't be found anywhere else on the planet. Around 80% of the plant and animal life on the island can only be found on Madagascar. Greenland is part of the continent of North America, but politically has generally been part of Europe through the country of Denmark. Great Britain. Great Britain is the ninth largest island in the world and is the largest island in the British Isles.
User: Which of the following areas is the fourth-largest island in the world and is considered part of the continent of Africa? A. Kilimanjaro B. Madagascar C. Mozambique D. VictoriaWeegy: Which of the following areas is the fourth-largest island in the world and is considered part of the continent of Africa? A. Kilimanjaro B. Madagascar C. Mozambique D. Victoria. Which of the following areas is the fourth-largest island in the world and is considered part of the continent of Africa? 
2) If one divides the planet into seven continents, then Africa is the world's second largest continent covering about 11,677,239 square miles (30,244,049 square km). 3) Africa is located to the south of Europe and southwest of Asia. It is connected to Asia via the Sinai Peninsula in northeastern Egypt. 
The islands of Africa can be subdivided into Indian Ocean Islands and Atlantic Ocean Islands. The largest number of islands of Africa are found in the Indian Ocean, with the sovereign island nations of Comoros, Seychelles, Mauritius and Madagascar located off the southeastern seaboard of Africa being the most notable. All of the islands of Africa, except for Madagascar, are classified as small islands under the UNESCO classification system for all islands under 2,000 square kilometres (770 sq mi). Madagascar, in contrast, at 587,041 square kilometres (226,658 sq mi) is the fourth-largest island in the world.
Confidence votes 27.8K. The fourth largest island in the world is Madagascar (after Greenland, New Guinea, and Borneo). It has an area of 226,917 sq miles (587,713 sq kms). Antananarivo is the capital of the island of Madagascar. Madagascar, off the southeastern coast of Africa, is the 4th largest island in the world, after Greenland, New Guinea, and Borneo.
D. Victoria. B. Madagascar-is the fourth-largest island in the world and is considered part of the continent of Africa. 
Even though Australia is the smallest of the accepted continents, Australia is still more than 3.5 times larger than Greenland. There has to be a line in the sand between small continent and the world's largest island and traditionally that line exists between Australia and Greenland. Besides size and tradition, one can make the argument geologically.