Cause of Goldenhar Syndrome. Goldenhar Syndrome is a congenital disease, meaning that it is present in infants when they are born. The cause is an abnormality in a chromosome, and because the disease tends to occur in just one person in a family, it is usually not inherited.
Goldenhar Syndrome is a rare birth defect characterized by. abnormal prenatal development of the head and face. Common features include missing ears and malformations of. the jaw, eye, vertebrae, mouth and palate. 
Goldenhar syndrome is a craniofacial syndrome, which means that it causes certain abnormalities in the formation of the face and head. It is considered a rare disease and a congenital one, meaning it is present at birth. Goldenhar is present in just one out of every 3500 to 25,000 babies at birth (Medscape, 2011). Goldenhar Syndrome is a congenital disease, meaning that it is present in infants when they are born. The cause is an abnormality in a chromosome, and because the disease tends to occur in just one person in a family, it is usually not inherited.
Goldenhar syndrome (also known as Oculo-Auriculo-Vertebral (OAV) syndrome) is a rare congenital defect characterized by incomplete development of the ear, nose, soft palate, lip, and mandible. 
Among the syndromes that we treat, Goldenhar syndrome, otherwise known as Oculo-Auriculo-Vertebral (OAV) syndrome, is a condition present from birth that mostly affects the development of the ears, nose, soft palate, lip, and mandible. Goldenhar Syndrome Treatment in Dallas, TX. Goldenhar syndrome is a rare condition that can affect multiple areas of the face and mouth.
0. Synonyms: hemifacial microsomia, oculo-auriculo-vertebral dysplasia, oculo-auriculo-vertebral spectrum. Goldenhar's syndrome is a birth defect resulting from the maldevelopment of the first two branchial arches, with incomplete development of the ear, nose, soft palate, lip and mandible. The phenotype is highly variable.
Goldenhar Syndrome. Goldenhar syndrome is a rare congenital condition characterized by abnormal development of the eye, ear and spine. Children with Goldenhar syndrome are born with partially formed or totally absent ears, benign growths of the eye, and spinal deformities such as scoliosis. Goldenhar is also known as oculo-auriculo-vertebral spectrum or OAV, and affects one in every 3,000-5,000 births.
Goldenhar syndrome is a congenital (present at birth) disorder that causes problems with eye and ear structure and spinal development. In babies with Goldenhar syndrome, bones in the face don’t grow normally during fetal development. 