Shingles-Treatment Overview. There is no cure for shingles, but treatment may shorten the length of illness and prevent complications. Treatment options include: 1  Antiviral medicines to reduce the pain and duration of shingles. 2  Pain medicines, antidepressants, and topical creams to relieve long-term pain.
The most common treatments for shingles include: 1  Antiviral medicines, such as acyclovir, famciclovir, or valacyclovir, to reduce the pain and the duration of shingles. 2  Over-the-counter pain medicines, such as acetaminophen or ibuprofen, to help reduce pain during an attack of shingles. 3  Be safe with medicines.
Natural Remedies for Shingles. Although natural remedies are promoted for shingles, it is important that you consult a doctor as soon as possible if you think you have shingles, in order to shorten the infection and reduce the risk of complications.
1 Antiviral medicines, such as acyclovir, famciclovir, or valacyclovir, to reduce the pain and the duration of shingles. 2  Over-the-counter pain medicines, such as acetaminophen or ibuprofen, to help reduce pain during an attack
These medicines help shorten the duration of shingles and reduce the symptoms. Some natural treatments may be effective in easing the pain and discomfort of shingles.. These can be used in conjunction with medication, or you can use them alone while the virus runs its course.
Treatment. Several antiviral medicines—acyclovir, valacyclovir, and famciclovir—are available to treat shingles. These medicines will help shorten the length and severity of the illness. But to be effective, they must be started as soon as possible after the rash appears.
Shingles-Home Treatment. You may reduce the duration and pain of shingles by: 1  Taking good care of skin sores. 2  Avoid picking at and scratching blisters.
Home Remedies Shingles. Shingles is a very painful reactivation of varicella zoster, the virus that causes chickenpox. Try some of the home remedies shingles in our site. After a chickenpox infection, the virus does not go away, but lies dormant in a single or group of sensory nerve roots.