Gene expression is the process by which information from a gene is used in the synthesis of a functional gene product. These products are often proteins, but in non-protein coding genes such as ribosomal RNA (rRNA) genes or transfer RNA (tRNA) genes, the product is a functional RNA. Generation of RNA from DNA is known as transcription. In other word transcription is the process of creating a complementary RNA copy of a sequence of DNA. During transcription, a DNA sequence is read by RNA polymerase, which produces a complementary, antiparallel RNA strand.
Gene regulatory protein. (Science: molecular biology) Any protein that interacts with dna sequences of a gene and controls its transcription. Please contribute to this project, if you have more information about this term feel free to edit this page. 
Eukaryotic promoter regulatory sequences typically bind proteins called transcription factors which are involved in the formation of the transcriptional complex. An example is the E-box (sequence CACGTG), which binds transcription factors in the basic-helix-loop-helix (bHLH) family (e.g. BMAL1-Clock, cMyc). Generation of RNA from DNA is known as transcription. In other word transcription is the process of creating a complementary RNA copy of a sequence of DNA. During transcription, a DNA sequence is read by RNA polymerase, which produces a complementary, antiparallel RNA strand.
A regulator gene, regulator, or regulatory gene is a gene involved in controlling the expression of one or more other genes. Regulator genes can be located within an operon, adjacent to it, or far away from it. Other regulatory genes code for activator proteins. An activator binds to a site on the DNA molecule and causes an increase in transcription of a nearby gene. In prokaryotes, a well-known example of an activator protein is the catabolite activator protein or CAP, which is involved in positive control of the lac operon
A regulatory sequence is a segment of a nucleic acid molecule which is capable of increasing or decreasing the expression of specific genes within an organism. Regulation of gene expression is an essential feature of all living organisms and viruses. Regulatory sequence controls when expression occurs for the multiple protein coding regions (red). Promoter, operator and enhancer regions (yellow) regulate the transcription of the gene into an mRNA. The mRNA untranslated regions (blue) regulate translation into the final protein products.
Regulator gene. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. A regulator gene, regulator, or regulatory gene is a gene involved in controlling the expression of one or more other genes. A regulator gene may encode a protein, or it may work at the level of RNA, as in the case of genes encoding microRNAs. In prokaryotes, regulator genes often code for repressor proteins. Repressor proteins bind to operators or promoters, preventing RNA polymerase from transcribing RNA. Regulator genes can be located within an operon, adjacent to it, or far away from it. Other regulatory genes code for activator proteins. An activator binds to a site on the DNA molecule and causes an increase in transcription of a nearby gene. In prokaryotes, a well-known example of an activator protein is the catabolite activator protein or CAP, which is involved in positive control of the lac operon
enhancer. Enhancer sequences are regulatory DNA sequences that, when bound by specific proteins called transcription factors, enhance the transcription of an associated gene. Enhancer sequences act upon genes on the same DNA molecule; however, enhancer sequences can be located thousands of base pairs away from the transcription start site of the gene being regulated.
Regulatory sequence controls when and where expression occurs for the protein coding region (red). Promoter and enhancer regions (yellow) regulate the transcription of the gene into a pre-mRNA which is modified to add a 5' cap and poly-A tail (grey) and remove introns. Regulatory sequence controls when expression occurs for the multiple protein coding regions (red). Promoter, operator and enhancer regions (yellow) regulate the transcription of the gene into an mRNA. The mRNA untranslated regions (blue) regulate translation into the final protein products.
Regulatory gene. Definition. noun, plural: regulatory genes. A gene that is involved in the production of a substance that controls or regulates the expression of one or more genes, such as the gene that codes for a repressor protein that inhibits the activity of an operator gene. Supplement. The repressor protein binds to operator gene, which consequently prevents the production of a specific enzyme. When that enzyme is needed again, a specific regulatory metabolite inhibits the repressor so that the enzyme is produced. Also called: 1  regulator.