Definition of GREENHOUSE GAS. : any of various gaseous compounds (such as carbon dioxide) that absorb infrared radiation, trap heat in the atmosphere, and contribute to the greenhouse effect. ADVERTISEMENT. 
Medical Definition of HYDROCARBON. : an organic compound (as acetylene, benzene, or butane) containing only carbon and hydrogen and often occurring in petroleum, natural gas, coal, and bitumens. Full Definition of HYDROCARBON. : an organic compound (as acetylene or butane) containing only carbon and hydrogen and often occurring in petroleum, natural gas, coal, and bitumens. See hydrocarbon defined for English-language learners. See hydrocarbon defined for kids.
: a substance (such as coal or natural gas) that contains only carbon and hydrogen. : an organic compound (as acetylene or butane) containing only carbon and hydrogen and often occurring in petroleum, natural gas, coal, and bitumens. Full Definition of HYDROCARBON. : an organic compound (as acetylene or butane) containing only carbon and hydrogen and often occurring in petroleum, natural gas, coal, and bitumens. See hydrocarbon defined for English-language learners. See hydrocarbon defined for kids.
A gaseous compound containing carbon and hydrogen was analyzed and found to consist of 83.65% carbon by mass. At 139 degrees C and 1.00 atm, the density of this compound is 2.55g/L. What is the molar mass? 
1 Molecular (or covalent) compounds-the particles that make up these compounds are molecules held together by covalent bonds. 2  This class of compound includes traditionally inorganic $\ce{CO2}$ and organic $\ce{CH4}$ carbon compounds. 1 This class of compound includes traditionally inorganic $\ce{CO2}$ and organic $\ce{CH4}$ carbon compounds. 2  Covalent compounds also the majority of organometallic compounds, so we do not need a separate category for these.
Chlorine is a chemical element with symbol Cl and atomic number 17. It also has a relative atomic mass of 35.5. Chlorine is in the halogen group (17) and is the second lightest halogen following fluorine. The element is a yellow-green gas under standard conditions, where it forms diatomic molecules. Chlorine has the highest electron affinity and the third highest electronegativity of all the reactive elements. Nearly all chlorine in the Earth's crust occurs as chloride in various ionic compounds, including table salt. It is the second most abundant halogen and 21st most abundant chemical element in Earth's crust. Elemental chlorine is commercially produced from brine by electrolysis.
Note that a compound: 1  consists of atoms of two or more different elements bound together, 2  can be broken down into a simpler type of matter (elements) by chemical means (but not by physical means), 3  has properties that are different from its component elements, and. 4  always contains the same ratio of its component atoms. A molecule consists of two or more atoms of the same element, or different elements, that are chemically bound together. Note that the two nitrogen atoms which comprise a nitrogen molecule move as a unit. Compounds. Microscopic view of the molecules of the compound water (gas phase)
2. An organic compound is any member of a large class of gaseous, liquid, or solid chemical compounds whose molecules contain carbon.[this is an extracted definition from wiki encyclopedia organic compound]. 1 This class of compound includes traditionally inorganic $\ce{CO2}$ and organic $\ce{CH4}$ carbon compounds. 2  Covalent compounds also the majority of organometallic compounds, so we do not need a separate category for these.