Throughout the Imprinted Concrete industry the range of prices given for the same intended project can be immense. It is quite possible to get a quote for £40.00 per metre squared and a different company will come and quote £140.00 per metre squared for the same installation. Here at Impressed Ltd our prices are somewhere in the middle of the industry range. 
This calculator shows discounts for estimating the cost for a concrete driveway between 10 and 500 square meters in area, the bigger the job the cheaper the square metre rate. If you job is over 500 square metres give us a call for our best price as we are very efficient on larger jobs. Concrete Cost for 75 to 149 square metres. 10 to 74 square metres. Please note: Our online concrete quote calculator does not include base fill, drainage or traffic control (sometimes required for kerbing work and the area where the driveway meets the road), or securing council permits.
Building prices for driveway. Driveways can be made of tarmac, paving slabs, brick (which can be herring bone style or a regular pattern), concrete or gravel. How much each of them costs depends largely on how much work you are willing to do on the driveway yourself. I had a new driveway installed in pattern imprinted concrete 50m2 they dug a depth of 10 inches layer a sub base 6 inches type1 mot and 4 inches fibre concrete perfect job great firm bensondriveways only cost me 1900 and a perfect job.
Add your answer. Price per square metre roughly for a concrete imprint driveway... We are going to be getting some quotations for our shared driveway and are going halves with our neighbours. It is roughly 13 metres long by 5 metres wide. We would like the old stuff taking up, flag stones down the side (one row on each side) and the inside is just dolomite (fairly loose) so... Source(s): price square metre roughly concrete imprint driveway: https://biturl.im/rmLCS. Portia · 2 months ago.
firswood5y, 4m agoPosted 5 years, 4 months ago. Thinking of getting the drive done but need a guide as to how much it is likely to cost per square meter all in when I get quotes. Also not sure whether to go for imprinted concrete, block paving, stone or tarmac as not sure of the price differences. 
£4,080. This represents a cost of £68 per square metre, which we consider to be a fair and reasonable price for a new 60 square metre Pattern Imprinted Concrete driveway in one colour and any pattern, and with no major complications. The costs of any steps, drainage and manhole covers would of course be in addition to this but the price should still be below £4,500 including V.A.T. (All prices for materials used in this example were correct at 20th January 2011 and prices for larger areas will generally be charged at a lower rate per square metre).
The Cost of Your New Driveway. T o give you a rough idea of the costs involved, these are typical price ranges per square metre for each of the different driveway types, once all materials have been included: 1  Concrete or Clay Block Paving: £60 per sqm. 2  Concrete: £42 per sqm. 3  Gravel: £36 per sqm. 4  Tarmac: £50 per sqm. 
A rough concrete slab will cost much less than a decorative finish. At a rough estimate: 1  Plain concrete can cost between $60 and $85 per square metre, installed. 2  A decorative finish on a driveway starts at about $90 per square metre and goes up to $150 or more. We use it for house slabs, driveways, paving and much more. Without it, building costs would be much higher, because concrete is in plentiful supply and is relatively easy to work with, enabling concreters to cover large areas in a short amount of time.
The difference between costs of driveway paving from company to company can be anything from £45 - £85 per square metre. With Driveway UK we can obtain you quotes from up to 5 paving companies offering drive paving services in your local area. Compare quotes today and save money on your driveway paving. Compare Quotes for Driveway Paving. 
This Site Might Help You. RE: Price per square metre roughly for a concrete imprint driveway... We are going to be getting some quotations for our shared driveway and are going halves with our neighbours. It is roughly 13 metres long by 5 metres wide. We would like the old stuff taking up, flag stones down the side (one row on each side) and the inside is just dolomite (fairly loose) so... Source(s): price square metre roughly concrete imprint driveway: https://biturl.im/rmLCS. Portia · 2 months ago.