Best Answer: It is important because it allowed the people of each state to choose who would represent their state in the U.S. Senate instead of state legislators choosing who would represent their state and it also provides a way for the states to fill a senate seat that became vacant in the middle of a term. 
17th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution: Direct Election of U.S. Senators. Americans did not directly vote for senators for the first 125 years of the Federal Government. The Constitution, as it was adopted in 1788, stated that senators would be elected by state legislatures. 
What is the 17th amendment? Amendment XVII (the Seventeenth Amendment) of the United States  Constitution was passed by the Senate on June 12, 1911 and by the  House on May 13, 1912. It was ratified on … April 8, 1913 and was  first put into effect for the election of 1914. The 17th Amendment is important as it gives the people (you and I) the right to select Senators.
Prior to the 17th Amendment, the Constitution specified that senators were elected by state legislatures. The reason why the Framers of the Constitution originally did this was because they wanted state governments to have some kind of role in the national government. Furthermore, sometimes state legislatures just couldn't decide who should be senator. Consequently, the Constitution was changed with the 17th Amendment so that the Senate of the United States shall be composed of two Senators from each State, elected by the people thereof, for six years... This meant that senators would now be freely elected
Amendment XVII (the Seventeenth Amendment) of the United States  Constitution was passed by the Senate on June 12, 1911 and by the  House on May 13, 1912. It was ratified on … April 8, 1913 and was  first put into effect for the election of 1914. Share to: Before the 17th Amendment, members of the House of Representatives were elected directly by the people, but members of the Senate were elected by the individual states' legisl … atures. However, the 17th Amendment changed the election of Senators from the state legislatures to the people.
Amendment XVII. The Senate of the United States shall be composed of two Senators from each state, elected by the people thereof, for six years; and each Senator shall have one vote. The electors in each state shall have the qualifications requisite for electors of the most numerous branch of the state legislatures. 
Prior to the 17th Amendment to the United States Constitution in  1913 a Senator was elected by their home state's house of  representatives. The 17th Amendment changed this … process making  Senators directly electable by the people. Share to: Before the 17th Amendment, members of the House of Representatives were elected directly by the people, but members of the Senate were elected by the individual states' legisl … atures. However, the 17th Amendment changed the election of Senators from the state legislatures to
Prior to the enactment of the 17th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution the U.S. Senators discussed federal affairs with their state legislators on a regular basis. At THAT time U.S. Senators did not have to raise millions of dollars to run for office. They were not beholden to the large corporations. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The Senate of the United States shall be composed of two Senators from each State, elected by the people thereof, for six years; and each Senator shall have one vote. The electors in each State shall have the qualifications requisite for electors of the most numerous branch of the State legislatures. The Seventeenth Amendment in the National Archives. The Seventeenth Amendment (Amendment XVII) to the United States Constitution established the popular election of United States Senators by the people of the states.