1 Cooked ground chicken or turkey: 3 to 4 days (refrigerator) or 2 to 3 months (freezer). 2  Cooked chicken nuggets: 1 to 2 days (refrigerator) or 1 to 2 months (freezer). 3  Meats with gravy or sauces: 1 to 2 days refrigerator or 6 months (freezer). 1 Rotisserie chicken: 3 to 4 days (refrigerator) or 2 to 3 months (freezer). 2  Opened package of hot dogs: 1 week (refrigerator) or 1 to 2 months (freezer). 3  Opened package of deli meat: 3 to 4
You can also freeze your cooked breaded chicken cutlets (tightly wrapped in foil or saran wrap and place in freezer bags) for 1-3 months. Just pull it out the night before you want to have it and thaw in the fridge. (Also) I feel like I’m limited to what I can do with the chicken once its cooked. Thanks for your help, SS. Dear SS: According to Foodsafety.gov, uncooked poultry is safe in the refrigerator for 1-2 days, and safe in the freezer for 9 months (for pieces) and up to 12 months for whole chickens or turkey. Cooked poultry is safe refrigerated for 3-4 days
I have to say that I have kept chicken in the fridge for longer than 2 days and not died. Some even have best before dates 3-4 days in. The quality definitely suffers, and I'm sure there's some risk, but it's probably low. It's a better practice to keep thing in freezer if you don't cook within a day, but some fridge like mine has a cooler box that has lower than usual temp that I may leave my uncooked meat a little bit longer, but 3 days are the max.
1 Fried chicken: 3 to 4 days (refrigerator) or 4 months (freezer). 2  Cooked ground chicken or turkey: 3 to 4 days (refrigerator) or 2 to 3 months (freezer). 3  Cooked chicken nuggets: 1 to 2 days (refrigerator) or 1 to 2 months (freezer). 4  Meats with gravy or sauces: 1 to 2 days refrigerator or 6 months (freezer). 1 Rotisserie chicken: 3 to 4 days (refrigerator) or 2 to 3 months (freezer). 2  Opened package of hot dogs: 1 week (refrigerator) or 1 to 2 months (freezer). 3  Opened package of deli meat: 3 to 4
1 Bacteria grow rapidly at temperatures between 40 °F and 140 °F; chicken should be discarded if left for more than 2 hours at room temperature. 2  To further extend the shelf life of raw chicken, freeze; when freezing, place chicken in the freezer before the number of days shown for refrigerator storage has elapsed. 1 How long does raw chicken last at room temperature? 2 
1 How long does raw chicken last after being frozen and thawed? 2  Chicken that has been defrosted in the fridge can be kept for an additional 1 to 2 days in the refrigerator before cooking; chicken that was thawed in the microwave or in cold water should be cooked immediately. 1 How long does raw chicken last at room temperature? 2  Bacteria grow rapidly at temperatures between 40 °F and 140 °F; chicken should be discarded if left for more than 2 hours at room temperature.
Meats do not last long in the refrigerator. Only about 3 to 4 days if it is raw. Then 1 to 2 days longer if cooked and placed in an airtight container. You should always … cover meats when stored in the fridge. Depends on the fridge temp. Reheat it to a boil every 4 days to kill the germs and you can keep it going for weeks.     Another Answer   Do not plan to keep turke … y soup for weeks in the fridge. If you are not going to use it up within 2 or 3 days, freeze it.
Report Abuse. If the chicken breast still hot when u put it in your fridge,then better don't eat because it already spoilage. If you put it in your fridge after it cold, you still can eat it but the taste not too nice already and if you always eat the food which already keep 2-3 days also not good for your health. lyp1011 · 6 years ago. Thumbs up. 0. If you had stored it in a corningware bowl or similar bowl and the Fat/oil from the chicken(like juices from a rotiss chicken) collected at the bottom, I would also have said 3 days. But Cooked Chicken from the grill will last 7 days wrapped as you have it. I assume its not loaded with BBQ sauce.
Meats are kept better in the freezer. Meats can be kept in the refrigerator for 3 to 4 days if raw and 1 to 2 days longer if cooked. Always place cooked meats in an airt … ight container. If not using the chicken immediately, store in the refrigerator and use within 24 hours of thawing. Thaw frozen chicken using one of three methods: in the refrigerator; in a cold water bath, changing the water every 30 minutes; or in the microwave.