In humans, adipose tissue is located beneath the skin (subcutaneous fat), around internal organs (visceral fat), in bone marrow (yellow bone marrow), intermuscular (Muscular system) and in the breast tissue. Adipose tissue is found in specific locations, which are referred to as adipose depots. Like all other fat organs, subcutaneous fat is an active part of the endocrine system, secreting the hormones leptin and resistin. The relationship between the subcutaneous adipose layer and total body fat in a person is often modelled by using regression equations.
exists and is an alternate of. Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answer by Katelyn Nienaber. Confidence votes 24. Fat doesn't belong to a system. It is a connective tissue but it is stored all over the body, including around some organs and within the marrow of the bones. 
One of the most important systems in your body, the nervous system is your body's control system. It sends, receives, and processes nerve impulses throughout the body. These nerve impulses tell your muscles and organs what to do and how to respond to the environment. 1 Sometimes, even though you don't feel well while it's happening, your body is fighting illness. 2  When the inflammatory response fails, the immune response goes to work. 3  This is the central part of the immune system and is made up of white blood cells, which fight infection by gobbling up antigens.
The circulatory system is the body's transport system. It is made up of a group of organs that transport blood throughout the body. The heart pumps the blood and the arteries and veins transport it. Oxygen-rich blood leaves the left side of the heart and enters the biggest artery, called the aorta. 1 Sometimes, even though you don't feel well while it's happening, your body is fighting illness. 2  When the inflammatory response fails, the immune response goes to work. 3  This is the central part of the immune system and is made up of white blood cells, which fight infection by gobbling up antigens.
Fat deposited in the omentum makes up a part of the visceral fat; the rest of the visceral fat is deeply embedded between organs. Excess visceral fat deposits in the abdominal area give rise to central obesity. A body with a protruding belly is termed apple shaped. The omentum is made up of the greater omentum which is an important storage for fat deposits and the lesser omentum which connects the stomach and intestines to the liver. Milky spots on the greater omentum contain white blood cells that assist immunity by removing cellular debris.
The omentum is a membranous double layer of fatty tissue that covers and supports the intestines and organs in the lower abdominal area. The omentum is made up of the greater omentum which is an important storage for fat deposits and the lesser omentum which connects the stomach and intestines to the liver. Milky spots on the greater omentum contain white blood cells that assist immunity by removing cellular debris.
They are part of the lymphatic system. The lymphatic system is made up of a network of lymph glands, connected throughout the body by tiny tubes called lymph vessels. Lymph is a yellow fluid that flows through the lymphatic system and eventually drains into veins. This system helps to get rid of waste products from the body. Tissue fluid bathes the body's cells, drains into the lymphatic system and then circulates again. The breasts and lymphatic system. The breasts are made up of fat, connective tissue, and gland tissue divided into areas called lobes. A network of tubes (ducts) spreads from the lobes towards the nipple.
The muscular system is made up of tissues that work with the skeletal system to control movement of the body. Some muscles—like the ones in your arms and legs—are voluntary, meaning that you decide when to move them. Other muscles, like the ones in your stomach, heart, intestines and other organs, are involuntary. 1 Sometimes, even though you don't feel well while it's happening, your body is fighting illness. 2  When the inflammatory response fails, the immune response goes to work. 3  This is the central part of the immune system and is made up of white blood cells, which fight infection by gobbling up antigens.
The vascular system, also called the circulatory system, is made up of the vessels that carry blood and lymph through the body. The arteries and veins carry blood throughout the body, delivering oxygen and nutrients to the body tissues and taking away tissue waste matter. In addition to circulating blood and lymph throughout the body, the vascular system functions as an important component of other body systems. Examples include: Respiratory system. As blood flows through the capillaries in the lungs, carbon dioxide is given up and oxygen is picked up.
The lymphatic system is made up of a network of lymph glands, connected throughout the body by tiny tubes (vessels) called lymph vessels. Lymph is a yellow fluid that flows through the lymphatic system and eventually drains into veins. This system helps to get rid of waste products from the body. Tissue fluid bathes the body's cells, drains into the lymphatic system and then circulates again. The breasts and lymphatic system. The breasts are made up of fat, connective tissue, and gland tissue divided into areas called lobes. A network of tubes (ducts) spreads from the lobes towards the nipple.