The concentration in serum after a typical dose of paracetamol usually peaks below 30 mg/l, which equals 200 µmol/L. Levels of 30–300 mg/L (200-2000 µmol/L) are often observed in overdose patients. Postmortem blood levels have ranged from 50–400 mg/L in persons dying due to acute overdosage. For patients less than 20 kg, the loading dose is 150 mg/kg in 3 mL/kg diluent, administered over 60 minutes; the second dose is 50 mg/kg in 7 mL/kg diluent over 4 hours; and the third and final dose is 100 mg/kg in 14 mL/kg diluent over 16 hours.
1 Each tablet usually contains 500mg. 2  Adults can take 1-2 tablets of paracetamol every 4-6 hours, up to four times a day. 3  This means you should not take more than 8 tablets (4g) in a 24-hour period. 1 Take paracetamol as directed on the packet or patient information leaflet that comes with the medicine. 2  Each tablet usually contains 500mg. 3  Adults can take 1-2 tablets of paracetamol every 4-6 hours, up to four times a day. 4
Recommended dose. 1  Take paracetamol as directed on the packet or patient information leaflet that comes with the medicine. 2  Each tablet usually contains 500mg. 3  Adults can take 1-2 tablets of paracetamol every 4-6 hours, up to four times a day. 1 Take paracetamol as directed on the packet or patient information leaflet that comes with the medicine. 2  Each tablet usually contains 500mg. 3  Adults can take 1-2 tablets of paracetamol every 4-6 hours, up to four times a day. 4  This means you should not take more than 8 tablets (4g) in a 24-hour period
Symptoms: Overdose Of Paracetamol often shows no symptoms within the first 24 hours after the overdose. In some cases although there may be mild nausea and vomiting. If the overdose is large then liver function may start deteriorating leading to either of these; jaundice, confusion, and loss of consciousness. If you are someone you know has had an overdose of paracetamol then whether to not symptoms start to surface you should visit the doctor. Earlier the better. Best within one hour of intake of it. And starts getting really dangerous after 24 hours of having taken 
If a paracetamol overdose is suspected, hospital treatment should be sought without delay. Ideally within 12 hours of having taken the overdose. Treatment must always be supervised in a hospital. The recommended dose of paracetamol for a single adult is two standard 500 mg tablets. Researches have reported that the threshold for liver damage to start from a single paracetamol overdose is 15 gms (30 tablets). If you are someone you know has had an overdose of paracetamol then whether to not symptoms start to surface you should visit the doctor. Earlier the better. Best within one hour of intake of it. And starts getting really dangerous after 24 hours of having taken 
Paracetamol overdose can either be due to a single intentional or accidental one-time overdose. However, chronic intake of very high doses of paracetamol can also lead to overdose. Many cases of accidental overdose are due to intake of multiple products that contain paracetamol. The signs and symptoms associated with a Paracetamol overdose can vary greatly depending on the amount of the medication that is consumed. Usually, patients who overdose on paracetamol do not exhibit or experience any symptoms for the first 24 hours.
Babies and children can be given paracetamol to treat fever or pain if they are over two months old. For example, one dose of paracetamol may be given to babies who are two or three months old if they have a high temperature following vaccinations. This dose may be repeated once after six hours. High doses of paracetamol (500mg or more) are not licensed for children under 16 years old and should not be given to children under 12 years old.
Paracetamol tablets may have different strengths, the maximum is 500 mg for each tablet. The recommended safe dose is two tablets every 4 hours until you feel better, but no more than 8 tablets in a 24 hour period. clovernut · 7 years ago. Thumbs up. If you are asking this because you intend to take too many tablets speak to your best friend or partner immediately. Things will always be better as time progresses, you don't want to miss out on not having any future.
Paracetamol toxicity is caused by excessive use or overdose of the analgesic drug paracetamol (called acetaminophen in North America). Mainly causing liver injury, paracetamol toxicity is one of the most common causes of poisoning worldwide. In the United States and the United Kingdom it is the most common cause of acute liver failure. Many individuals with paracetamol toxicity may have no symptoms at all in the first 24 hours following overdose. Others may initially have nonspecific complaints such as vague abdominal pain and nausea. For patients less than 20 kg, the loading dose is 150 mg/kg in 3 mL/kg diluent, administered over 60 minutes; the second dose is 50 mg/kg in 7 mL/kg diluent over 4 hours; and the third and final dose is 100 mg/kg in 14 mL/kg diluent over 16 hours.