Matt. 61 1 1. add a comment |. up vote 4 down vote. Start with medium heat and get the pan hot but put a tablespoon of butter before it gets too hot. Once the foaming stops, add the eggs into the pan and stir constantly but reduce the heat to low. I add about a tablespoon of milk to my eggs. If it starts sticking to the bottom while you're stirring, then the pan has gotten too hot. Just move it off the burner and continue stirring. share | improve this answer. 
Place the eggs in a saucepan that is large enough that the eggs aren't bumping against one another. Fill the pan with enough cold water to cover the eggs by at least one inch. Elizabeth Kraft/Demand Media. Heat the water over high heat until it comes to a full boil. 
Coat the bottom of a frying pan or skillet with nonstick cooking spray. If you do not have nonstick cooking spray, you may substitute butter. Cut a chunk of butter and hold it in your hand as you rub it into the bottom of the pan. Leave the remainder of the butter in the pan. Place the pan over medium heat. You may need to tilt the pan to cover the whole surface with butter. Prepare the eggs. If you are scrambling the eggs, crack the eggs into a bowl, beat them with a fork or a whisk and add seasonings, like salt and pepper. For extra flavor, you may wish to add garlic powder and paprika to them as well.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The shells sticking to the eggs is a matter of freshness, not how you boil them. The best way to boil eggs: place them in a pot of cold water, turn heat to high, when they boil, cover and turn heat off. Let sit for 20 minutes. To peel: drain hot water, rinse under cold running water for a couple of minutes. Add salt to the boiling water. Boil the amount of time you usually do, then drain the water, and run some cold water over the eggs. Shut off the water, and add some ice cubes. Let the eggs sit until the ice has melted and the eggs have gone to room temp. Stick in the fridge at least over night.
If you are using butter, you want the butter to melt and coat the pan evenly. You may need to tilt the pan to cover the whole surface with butter. Prepare the eggs. If you are scrambling the eggs, crack the eggs into a bowl, beat them with a fork or a whisk and add seasonings, like salt and pepper. For extra flavor, you may wish to add garlic powder and paprika to them as well. If you are going to fry the eggs, crack them into a bowl, but do not beat them. Pour the eggs into the heated pan. For scrambled eggs, begin scrambling them from the start. Use the spatula to move the egg mixture around in the pan. This constant movement will help the eggs not stick to the bottom
http://www.stevewilsonblog.com/fry-eg... This is how to fry an egg in a steel pan without it sticking! Vapor from cooking on Teflon is known to kill birds. Without proper technique, you'll end up with a sticking mess and ruined eggs. PS-NPR says Schoolhouse Rock is 40 today
Either use minimum grease ,oil or butter to a non stick pan or cook in a double boiler.placing the pan of eggs over a pan of simmering water,high enough not to touch the water ,takes a little longer but the eggs are creamier & no sticking to the pan. dee k · 8 years ago. Thumbs up. 0. Report Abuse. 
Follow. Well, I've generally always used a non-stick fry pan for eggs, but I decided to try out my Kitchen Aid stainless steel version and can't figure out how to fry eggs, even bacon, without turning the pan into an absolute mess and leaving a good amount of the eggs crusted on the pan. 