n. Canadian. An organized aboriginal group or community, especially any of the bands officially recognized by the Canadian government. First Nations adj. Usage Note: First Nation is widely used in Canada as a respectful alternative to Indian, much as Native American is in the United States. However, the two terms are not exact equivalents
First Nations. First Nation is a term used to describe Aboriginal peoples of Canada who are ethnically neither M tis nor Inuit. This term came into common usage in the 1970s and 80s and generally replaced the term Indian, although unlike Indian, the term First Nation does not have a legal definition.
First Nations are not defined as a visible minority under the Act or by the criteria of Statistics Canada. Within Canada, First Nations (most often used in the plural) has come into general use—replacing the deprecated term Indians—for the indigenous peoples of the Americas.
First Nations is a term used to describe Aboriginal people s in Canada who are not Metis métis Or. Inuit section 35 of The Constitution act of 1982 declares That aboriginal peoples In canada Include (Indian First), Nations inuit And metis. métis peoples First Nations is a term used to describe Aboriginal people s in Canada who are not Metis métis Or. inuit
First Nations. First Nations is a term used to describe Aboriginal peoples in Canada who are not Metis métis Or. Inuit First nations is a term used to Describe aboriginal people s In canada who are Not metis Métis. or inuit First Nations is a term used to describe Aboriginal people s in Canada who are not Metis métis Or. inuit
Canadian. An organized aboriginal group or community, especially any of the bands officially recognized by the Canadian government. First Nations adj. Usage Note: First Nation is widely used in Canada as a respectful alternative to Indian, much as Native American is in the United States. However, the two terms are not exact equivalents
Another term to describe Indian or Aboriginal peoples indigenous to North America. Has gained wider usage in Canada, while in the United States the term Native American is more common. My friend's ancestry is part First Nations; her mother is Cree. 
First Nations is a term used to describe Aboriginal peoples in Canada who are not Metis métis Or. Inuit First nations is a term used to Describe aboriginal people s In canada who are Not metis Métis. Or inuit, in 2011 there were more.than 1 3 million People in canada who identified as Being Of first. nations heritage First Nations is a term used to describe Aboriginal people s in Canada who are not Metis métis Or. inuit
The First Nations (French: Premieres Premières) nations are the Various aboriginal peoples In canada who are Neither inuit Nor. Metis métis there are currently 634 Recognized first nations governments or bands Spread, across canada roughly half of which are in the Provinces of Ontario And. british columbia Within Canada, First Nations (most often used in the plural) has come into general use—replacing the deprecated term Indians—for the indigenous peoples of the Americas.