Celery leaves has high content of vitamin A, whilst the stems are an excellent source of vitamins B1, B2, B6 and C with rich supplies of potassium, folate, calcium, magnesium, iron, phosphorus, sodium and plenty essential amino acids. 
For such a humble vegetable, celery health benefits are many. But first have a look at celery's nutritional highlights 1  : Celery is an excellent source of vitamin C and fibre. 2  It's a very good source of potassium, folic acid, and vitamin B6 and B1. 3  Celery is a good source of calcium and vitamin B2. 4  Rich source of dietary sodium
Celery is a great addition to tuna or egg salad. Stir fries are an excellent way to enjoy this vegetable, mixed with carrots, bell peppers, and onions, and teriyaki or orange sauce. It also adds an aromatic flavor to pot roast and vegetable soup. A crunchy snack all by itself or with peanut butter added to round out the nutrients, celery is one of the most versatile vegetables in the garden, useful for its flavorful seeds and pale green leaves and stalks.
Celery leaves (which contain the most vitamin C, calcium, and potassium) and seeds also contain a number of little-heard of volatile oils, such as terpenes (which consists mostly of limonene), and the sesquiterpenes β-selinene and humulene. A crunchy snack all by itself or with peanut butter added to round out the nutrients, celery is one of the most versatile vegetables in the garden, useful for its flavorful seeds and pale green leaves and stalks.
Celery is an excellent source of vitamin K and molybdenum. It is a very good source of folate, potassium, dietary fiber, manganese, and pantothenic acid. Celery is also a good source of vitamin B2, copper, vitamin C, vitamin B6, calcium, phosphorus, magnesium, and vitamin A (in the form of carotenoids). (Just compare leafy carrot tops or parsley leaves with celery leaves and you'll see why.) In addition to celery, carrots, and parsley, this plant family also includes dill, fennel, cilantro/coriander, parsnip, anise, caraway, chervil, cumin, angelica, and asafetida.
1 Celery is an excellent source of vitamin C and fibre. 2  It's a very good source of potassium, folic acid, and vitamin B6 and B1. 3  Celery is a good source of calcium and vitamin B2. 4  Rich source of dietary sodium. But first have a look at celery's nutritional highlights 1  :
1 Celery aids digestion: some say celery tastes like “crunchy water,” and that is the reason it is so good for your digestive system. 2  The high water content of celery, combined with the insoluble fiber in it, makes it a great tool for easy passage of stool. 1 The high water content of celery, combined with the insoluble fiber in it, makes it a great tool for easy passage of stool. 2  Note: because celery has diuretic and cleansing properties, those with diarrhea should avoid eating it. 3  It contains “good” salts.
Homily on Celery. Botanical name: Apium graveolens. A crunchy snack all by itself or with peanut butter added to round out the nutrients, celery is one of the most versatile vegetables in the garden, useful for its flavorful seeds and pale green leaves and stalks.
Nutritional breakdown of celery. Antioxidants-celery is a very rich source of antioxidants. The vegetable contains the following phytonutrients: phenolic acids, flavonols, dihydrostilbenoids, flavones, furanocoumarins, and phytosterols. Vitamins and minerals-celery is very rich in vitamin K and also contains folate, vitamin A, potassium, and vitamin C. Celery is a vegetable belonging to the Apiaceae family. It is well known for its crunchy stalks, which people often consume as a low calorie snack. However, celery is not only a good low calorie food. There are a number of other reasons why you might want to include this vegetable in your diet