Keratin debris is formed due to infections of keratin-rich areas. Keratin debris can be caused by a fungal infection known as onychomycosis. Fungi that infect the nails can destroy small amounts of keratin, resulting in the formation of keratin debris, the Merck Manual explains. Keratin debris is formed as a result of the nails being physically broken down by the fungi
If your toenails are discolored, look unhealthy or have soft, gummy material trapped underneath them, you’re suffering from the unpleasant effects of keratin debris buildup. Fortunately, this material can be cleared away with a good nail fungus treatment and your nails can be normal and healthy again. Keratin Debris Treatment. If an active infection is still present on the foot, that must be treated first. Antibiotics can clear bacterial infections while drugs like terbinafine or itraconazole can get rid of fungus.
Keratin debris is what’s left behind after the fibrous protein in hair, skin and fingernails starts to break down. Keratin itself is a hard substance found in these parts of the human body as well as in animal hooves and feathers, and the soft stuff left behind is the result of keratin being damaged. Keratin Debris Treatment. If an active infection is still present on the foot, that must be treated first. Antibiotics can clear bacterial infections while drugs like terbinafine or itraconazole can get rid of fungus.
The process depends on how much keratin debris is under your nails and how large of a debris pocket you have. It can take anywhere from 3 months to 18 months to remove all the keratin debris, depending on how much is there to begin with and your age. The older we are the slower our nails grow. (Softened keratin debris looks like cottage cheese on your manicure tool.) At 2 months nail growth is visible to the eye and you should see a smaller pocket or border of keratin debris along the nail edges.
Hair and nails are made predominantly from proteins. Depending on the type of protein used, the structures made can be soft and pliable, like hair, or be designed for sturdiness, as is the case with nails. Some conditions, such as a fungal infection, can break down these proteins. One such protein, known as keratin, can be destroyed and turned into keratin debris. Keratin debris can be caused by a fungal infection known as onychomycosis. Fungi that infect the nails can destroy small amounts of keratin, resulting in the formation of keratin debris, the Merck Manual explains.
Polka Dot Images/Polka Dot/Getty Images. Nail keratin debris is a fungal infection of the nail. In medical terms it is called an onychomycosis or tinea unguium. The common symptom of this condition is a dirty yellowish discoloration of the nail, which a manicure or pedicure cannot remove. 
Patented NonyX Nail Gel (pronounced “Non-x”) is an exfoliating agent of discoloring keratin debris buildup under toenails and fingernails. Twice daily application results in improved nail color and clarity with 3 to 9 months as keratin debris is softened and exfoliated from under the nail. A nine-month clinical study was conducted in 2003 and 2004 using a double-blind, placebo-controlled design to demonstrate clearance of keratin debris from under the nail with regular use. Nonyx is not a drug. It is an exfoliating agent of keratin debris under the nail. Nonyx is safe, even for diabetics. It is easy to apply and evinced no side effects in a Repeat Insult Patch Test and usage study among Type 1 and Type 2 diabetics
NonyX Nail Gel (pronounced Non-X) is clinically proven to clear out discoloring keratin debris under the nail. Apply to dark or yellowing toenails and fingernails. Nail discoloration is actually keratin debris build-up under the nail. NonyX Nail Gel breaks down and removes this yellow or darkened build-up and keeps nails looking clear and attractive with regular use. If your toenails or fingernails look dark or yellow they may need NonyX Nail Gel. NonyX Gel contains ethanoic acid to remove keratin debris build-up from under the nail. With regular use, your nails are clear and healthy-looking – or your money back. Safe, even for diabetics. The 4oz. bottle is a 6 month supply.
1 Clears out yellowing keratin debris build-up from under toenails and fingernails. 2  NonyX Nail Gel is safe, even for diabetics. 3  Used by podiatrists and clinically tested by dermatologists. 4  One bottle is a six month supply - 4 oz. If your toenails or fingernails look dark or yellow they may need NonyX Nail Gel. NonyX Gel contains ethanoic acid to remove keratin debris build-up from under the nail. With regular use, your nails are clear and healthy-looking – or your money back. Safe, even for diabetics. The 4oz. bottle is a 6 month supply.