Alopecia areata is considered an autoimmune disease, in which the immune system, which is designed to protect the body from foreign invaders such as viruses and bacteria, mistakenly attacks the hair follicles, the structures from which hairs grow. This can lead to hair loss on the scalp and elsewhere. Alopecia areata often occurs in people whose family members have other autoimmune diseases, such as type 1 diabetes, rheumatoid arthritis, thyroid disease, systemic lupus erythematosus, pernicious anemia, or Addison’s disease.
Alopecia areata facts. 1  Alopecia areata is a hair-loss condition which usually affects the scalp. 2  Alopecia areata causes one or more patches of hair loss. 3  Alopecia areata affects both genders. 4  It is an autoimmune disorder, in which the immune system attacks hair follicles, is believed to cause alopecia areata. Alopecia areata is occasionally associated with other autoimmune conditions such as thyroid disease, vitiligo, lupus, rheumatoid arthritis, and ulcerative colitis. The diagnosis or treatment of these diseases is unlikely to affect the course of
1 Alopecia areata is a hair-loss condition which usually affects the scalp. 2  Alopecia areata causes one or more patches of hair loss. 3  Alopecia areata affects both genders. 4  It is an autoimmune disorder, in which the immune system attacks hair follicles, is believed to cause alopecia areata. Alopecia areata is occasionally associated with other autoimmune conditions such as thyroid disease, vitiligo, lupus, rheumatoid arthritis, and ulcerative colitis. The diagnosis or treatment of these diseases is unlikely to affect the course of
Alopecia areata is an autoimmune disease. Normally the immune system protects the body against infection and disease. In an autoimmune disease, the body’s immune system mistakenly attacks some part of your own body. In alopecia areata, the immune system attacks the hair follicles. The cause is not known. Scientists think that a person’s genes may play a role. For people whose genes put them at risk for the disease, some type of trigger starts the attack on the hair follicles.
Alopecia areata is an autoimmune disease that causes the hair to fall out in patches. Another cause of hair loss is a condition called cicatricial alopecia, in which the hair follicles that produce hair are destroyed. Hair loss can be experienced by people with certain types of anemia, anorexia, and thyroid disease. 
Alopecia areata is a prevalent autoimmune skin disease resulting in the loss of hair on the scalp and elsewhere on the body. It usually starts with one or more small, round, smooth patches on the scalp and can progress to total scalp hair loss (alopecia totalis) or complete body hair loss (alopecia universalis). 
About Alopecia Areata. Alopecia areata is considered an autoimmune disease, in which the immune system, which is designed to protect the body from foreign invaders such as viruses and bacteria, mistakenly attacks the hair follicles, the structures from which hairs grow. This can lead to hair loss on the scalp and elsewhere. Alopecia Areata Totalis. The total loss of hair on the scalp. Alopecia Areata Universalis. The loss of all hair from the head and the body. Autoimmune Disease. Disease that results when the immune system mistakenly attacks the body's own tissues.
1 It is an autoimmune disorder, in which the immune system attacks hair follicles, is believed to cause alopecia areata. 2  For most patients, the condition resolves without treatment within a year, but hair loss is sometimes permanent. 3  A number of treatments are known to aid in hair regrowth. Alopecia areata is occasionally associated with other autoimmune conditions such as thyroid disease, vitiligo, lupus, rheumatoid arthritis, and ulcerative colitis. The diagnosis or treatment of these diseases is unlikely to affect the course of