Noun. 1. volcano-a fissure in the earth's crust (or in the surface of some other planet) through which molten lava and gases erupt. vent. crack, scissure, cleft, crevice, fissure-a long narrow opening. eructation, extravasation, eruption - (of volcanos) pouring out fumes or lava (or a deposit so formed). 1. a. An opening in the earth's crust from which lava, ash, and hot gases flow or are ejected during an eruption. b. A similar opening on the surface of another celestial object. 2. A usually cone-shaped mountain formed from the materials issuing from such an opening.
Cinder cones (tephra cone) are a type of volcano that consists almost entirely of tephra (another term used for pyroclasts or solid volcanic ejecta). Magma that contains abundant volatiles (gases) bubbles as it reaches the surface and small bits of magma are thrown into the air in the process. Volcanoes are spectacular (as well as dangerous) when they erupt, and they are among those geological features that give us a very clear sense of the power of geologic processes. Their magma originates in the upper mantle or the lower crust and varies in composition
Lava. Magma which has reached the surface through a volcanic eruption. The term is most commonly applied to streams of liquid rock that flow from a crater or fissure. It also refers to cooled and solidified rock. Eruption. The process by which solid, liquid, and gaseous materials are ejected into the earth's atmosphere and onto the earth's surface by volcanic activity. Eruptions range from the quiet overflow of liquid rock to the tremendously violent expulsion of pyroclastics.
Volcanism is the phenomenon of eruption of molten rock (magma) onto the surface of the Earth or a solid-surface planet or moon, where lava, pyroclastics and volcanic gases erupt through a break in the surface called a vent. Some of this magma may cool extremely rapidly and will form volcanic glass (rocks without crystals) such as obsidian. Magma that remains trapped below ground in thin intrusions cools slower than magma exposed to the surface and produces rocks with medium-sized crystals.
Volcanic Rocks. Volcanic rocks are also known as 'extrusive igneous rocks.' We see from their definition that volcanic rocks form on the surface, or 'exterior,' of the earth. If you remember that 'extrusive' and 'exterior' both start with the letters 'ext,' it may help you recall this term. The term 'igneous' comes from the Latin language and is the word for 'fire,' which is a very appropriate name due to the fact that igneous rocks originate from fiery, red-hot magma. We associate magma with volcanoes, yet you don't actually see magma because by definition, magma is located below the surface
When the magma cools it solidifies and forms rocks, the type of rock formed depends on the chemical composition of the magma and how rapidly the magma cools. Magma that reaches the surface to become lava cools rapidly resulting in rocks with small crystals such as basalt. Some of this magma may cool extremely rapidly and will form volcanic glass (rocks without crystals) such as obsidian. Magma that remains trapped below ground in thin intrusions cools slower than magma exposed to the surface and produces rocks with medium-sized crystals.
Volcanism is part of the process of bringing material from the deep interior of a planet and spilling it forth on the surface. Eruptions also eject new molecules into the atmosphere. Volcanism is part of the process by which a planet cools off. Even though they are not volcanoes, geysers and hot springs are also part of the volcanic process, involving water and hydrothermal activity. 
Volcanic Landforms. Volcanic landforms are controlled by the geological processes that form them and act on them after they have formed. Thus, a given volcanic landform will be characteristic of the types of material it is made of, which in turn depends on the prior eruptive behavior of the volcano. 
Let's review. Igneous rocks are rocks made from the cooling and solidifying of molten rock. There are two categories of igneous rocks. Volcanic rocks are rocks formed when lava cools and solidifies on the earth's surface. Volcanic rocks are also known as 'extrusive igneous rocks' because they form from the 'extrusion,' or eruption, of lava from a volcano. The term 'igneous' comes from the Latin language and is the word for 'fire,' which is a very appropriate name due to the fact that igneous rocks originate from fiery, red-hot magma. We associate magma with volcanoes, yet you don't actually see magma because by definition, magma is located below the surface of the earth.