Of all the time for how long does it take to digest a meal, the meal has now spent about 3 hours through its journey till intestine and about 5 hours in the small intestine where all the nutrients it had are now extracted and only things left now are water sodium. 
Answer by Jordnthoms. Confidence votes 2. After food is digested in the stomach -- which takes about 3-4 hours -- it leaves the stomach. Chyme (or food and stomach acid) enters the small intestine at a rate of about 100-300 ml every hour. Depending on how much you ate (the average meal is probably 600-800 ml after digestion), food can be in your stomach anywhere from 3.5 hours to 7 hours. 
In the stomach, food tends to hang around in the stomach for different time scales depending on a variety of factors including the amount of food you have consumed, how much fat it contains, and also the acidity of the stomach. However, all food should have left the stomach within 2 to 4 hours. (approx. time spent in stomach before emptying) Liquid: Water-when stomach is empty, leaves immediately and goes into intestines, Juices-Fruit vegetables, vegetable broth - 15 to 20 minutes. Semi-liquid (blended salad, vegetables or fruits) - 20 to 30 min. Fruits: Watermelon - 20 min.digestion time. 
Gaining weight: 3 hours. The fat gets to your waist in about 3 hours from the last big meal. the fat gets in the bloodstream within one hour, and after 3 hours most of it is in the fat tissue around the waist. A meal that has more that 30g of fat will add around 3 tablespoons of fat to that tissue. 
After food is digested in the stomach -- which takes about 3-4 hours -- it leaves the stomach. Chyme (or food and stomach acid) enters the small intestine at a rate of about 1 … 00-300 ml every hour. Depending on how much you ate (the average meal is probably 600-800 ml after digestion), food can be in your stomach anywhere from 3.5 hours to 7 hours. Confidence votes 507. It takes anywhere from 1 to 3 hours for food to completely exit the stomach, depending on how much food you and what food you eat (protein takes longer to digest). Large meals take 2 to 5 hours.
it really depends on how big of a meal you've eaten, because the duodenum can only take in a small amount at a time for calorie absorption (i believe, on average, every 30 minutes or so it opens up to take in another handful of chyme). but, of course, digestion continues after food leaves the stomach. it goes on to the rest of the small intestine for further nutrient absorbtion, and then to the large intestine for water absorbtion.
Digestion time varies between individuals and between men and women. After you eat, it takes about six to eight hours for food to pass through your stomach and small intestine. Food then enters your large intestine (colon) for further digestion, absorption of water and, finally, elimination of undigested food. 
under normal circumstances, it can take 24-48 hours for a meal to fully leave your body. also, it is notable that certain things, like alcohol and many medicines, are absorbed directly through the stomach and into the bloodstream. Source(s): but, of course, digestion continues after food leaves the stomach. it goes on to the rest of the small intestine for further nutrient absorbtion, and then to the large intestine for water absorbtion.
Change text size for the story. Print. Report an error. Digestion time varies depending on the individual. For most healthy adults, it's usually between 24 and 72 hours. After you eat, it takes about six to eight hours for food to pass through your stomach and small intestine. Food then enters your large intestine (colon) for further digestion and absorption of water. 