You can start weaning the pups with watered down puppy food (gruel) as early as 3-3 1/2 weeks. This can take a couple weeks then start slowly adding less water to make it more firm. They should be able to start with small kibble by 5-6 weeks old. Make sure its a high quality puppy food. 6-8 weeks old-be sure to add a small amount of water to soften the food until you puppy gets use to eating hard food.   below is from: www.dogbreedinfo.com/feeding   Fee … d your puppy 3-4 times a day. Puppies have different nutritional needs than adult dogs.
The entire process usually takes a little over a month or so, with many puppies not being completely weaned until they're about 8 weeks old. However, puppies can begin eating soft-textured foods as soon as weaning begins -- think 3 weeks old, for instance. Puppy Food. When you begin feeding puppies solid foods in earnest, whether soft or hard, remember that the little ones have very specific nutritional requirements that are totally different than those of adult doggies. The ASPCA notes that puppies need roughly two times as much energy intake as full-grown dogs.
When to Introduce Water and Food. The best time to introduce water and puppy food is around 3 to 4 weeks of age. This is the time to start to slowly wean the puppy from her mother’s milk and care so she can become more independent. Be patient and take your time with this. Once a puppy starts to eat puppy food instead of milk, she will also need water. Not only does the water help keep her hydrated, it also keeps her cells working properly and helps aid digestion.
Age Of Eating Solid Food. Usually around 8 to 12 weeks, or after they're weaned. Always start out with a good brand of puppy chow because that's when they need their nutrition the most for their critical development stages. The average puppy will nibble at solid food between the ages of three and five weeks. Some people don't feed their dogs a separate puppy food. If your puppy is still very youn … g, you can put water in dry food to soften it for puppies.
When to Start Weaning. Start introducing puppies to puppy food at the age of 3.5 weeks. This allows you to gradually transition them from their mother's milk to solid puppy food. By the time they are independent at 8 weeks old, they should be eating solid food. 
When puppies just start the weaning process, the texture and chewing requirement of hard kibble may be quite a shock at first. Remember, the fluff balls have experience consuming only mama's milk at this point. The ASPCA recommends feeding the youngsters dry puppy food that is spoon-mixed into warm water. Puppy Food. When you begin feeding puppies solid foods in earnest, whether soft or hard, remember that the little ones have very specific nutritional requirements that are totally different than those of adult doggies. The ASPCA notes that puppies need roughly two times as much energy intake as full-grown dogs.
ANSWER #12 of 13. 6 weeks you can start them on foods, and as soon as they are eating and no longer needing there mother they should be ready to sell...weve sold three out of our litter of 9 at 7 weeks old now :). ANSWER #13 of 13. Puppies can start eating sofr puppy food at 4 weeks. I use puppy chow and add some water to make it soft, I mash it up real good. They will probably make a mess the first few times but they will learn. You should not sell them until they are 6 or 7 weeks old and eating puppy food on a regular schedule. They can start to eat soft food mush at 5-6 weeks, but keep them with the Mom until 8 weeks. There are very important socialization patterns that need to develop for puppies, and if they are taken from the Mom too quickly, they can grow up having lots of issues (such as separation anxiety or aggression).
Puppies can start on soaked dry puppy food at around 3 weeks of age. Just soak the puppy food in some warm water and let soften to just a mush. Then you can add a little Esbil … ac, warm water or canned milk (never use cow's milk). diluted one part canned milk to one part water. 6-8 weeks old-be sure to add a small amount of water to soften the food until you puppy gets use to eating hard food.   below is from: www.dogbreedinfo.com/feeding   Fee … d your puppy 3-4 times a day. Puppies have different nutritional needs than adult dogs.
The mother dog's milk offers puppies everything they need in order to be healthy and hardy. The sole exception is when a mother dog is absent or unable to nurse. In those situations, consult your vet. You can bottle-feed puppies using a commercial milk replacer and puppy formula. Puppy Food. When you begin feeding puppies solid foods in earnest, whether soft or hard, remember that the little ones have very specific nutritional requirements that are totally different than those of adult doggies. The ASPCA notes that puppies need roughly two times as much energy intake as full-grown dogs.