Tobramycin injection is used to treat serious bacterial infections in many different parts of the body. Tobramycin belongs to the class of medicines known as aminoglycoside antibiotics. It works by killing bacteria or preventing their growth. This systematic review evaluated evidence for two dry powder formulations, colistimethate sodium and tobramycin, for the treatment of chronic Pseudomonas aeruginosa in cystic fibrosis, as part of the UK national recommendation process for new technologies.
1 Children younger than 6 years of age—Use and dose must be determined by your doctor. 2  For inhalation dosage form (capsule): 3  Adults, teenagers, and children 6 years of age and older—Four capsules with 28 milligrams (mg) of tobramycin two times a day for 28 days in the Podhaler™ device. If you are using the inhalation solution: 1  Tobramycin inhalation solution is packaged in small plastic containers called ampules. 2  Tobramycin is especially formulated to be used with a PARI LC PLUS™ nebulizer. 3  Use the mouthpiece of the nebulizer to breathe in Bethkis®. 4  You will need to use the nebulizer for about 10 to 15 minutes, or until the 5  ... Cl
1 answer. Tobramycin eye medication is most commonly used to treat certain types of bacterial eye infections. This dosage form is prescribed off label to treat other types of infections also. 1 answer. Vivi, Tobramycin ophthalmic solution (Tobrex) is an antibiotic used to treat bacterial eye infections. According to the manufacturer, tobramycin ophthalmic solution is generally well tolerated and adverse effects are uncommon if used correctly.
Descriptions. Ophthalmic tobramycin is used in the eye to treat bacterial infections of the eye. Tobramycin works by killing bacteria. Ophthalmic tobramycin may be used alone or with other medicines for eye infections. Either the drops or the ointment form of this medicine may be used alone during the day. In addition, both forms may be used together, with the drops being used during the day and the ointment at night. Tobramycin ophthalmic preparations are available only with your doctor's prescription.
1 answer. The tobramycin ophthalmic drops are only used to treat infections of the eye and will not treat respiratory congestion or wheezing. Contact your veterinarian is you have not seen improvement in 3 to 4 days or if the infection has not cleared in one week after starting tobramycin. 1 answer. Vivi, Tobramycin ophthalmic solution (Tobrex) is an antibiotic used to treat bacterial eye infections. According to the manufacturer, tobramycin ophthalmic solution is generally well tolerated and adverse effects are uncommon if used correctly.
1 For inhalation dosage form (capsule): 2  Adults, teenagers, and children 6 years of age and older—Four capsules with 28 milligrams (mg) of tobramycin two times a day for 28 days in the Podhaler™ device. 3  Then, stop using this medicine and wait 28 days, and repeat the cycle (28-day on, 28-day off cycle). If you are using the inhalation solution: 1  Tobramycin inhalation solution is packaged in small plastic containers called ampules. 2  Tobramycin is especially formulated to be used with a PARI LC PLUS™ nebulizer. 3  Use the mouthpiece of the nebulizer to breathe in Bethkis®. 4  You will need to use the nebulizer for about 10 to 15 minutes, or until the 5  ... Cl
Ophthalmic tobramycin is used in the eye to treat bacterial infections of the eye. Tobramycin works by killing bacteria. Ophthalmic tobramycin may be used alone or with other medicines for eye infections. Either the drops or the ointment form of this medicine may be used alone during the day. In addition, both forms may be used together, with the drops being used during the day and the ointment at night. Tobramycin ophthalmic preparations are available only with your doctor's prescription.
1 For inhalation dosage form (solution): 2  Adults, teenagers, and children 6 years of age and older—One ampule or container with 300 milligrams (mg) of tobramycin two times a day for 28 days in the nebulizer. 3  Then, stop using this medicine and wait 28 days, and repeat the cycle (28-day on, 28-day off cycle). If you are using the inhalation solution: 1  Tobramycin inhalation solution is packaged in small plastic containers called ampules. 2  Tobramycin is especially formulated to be used with a PARI LC PLUS™ nebulizer. 3  Use the mouthpiece of the nebulizer to breathe in Bethkis®. 4  You will need to use the nebulizer for about 10 to 15 minutes, or until the 5  ... Cl
Tobramycin eye drops are used in many animals to treat bacterial infections in the eye, eyelids, or conjunctiva. Tobramycin in considered bactericidal, which means that it kills bacteria. It does so by stopping the production of proteins within the bacteria. 1 answer. Vivi, Tobramycin ophthalmic solution (Tobrex) is an antibiotic used to treat bacterial eye infections. According to the manufacturer, tobramycin ophthalmic solution is generally well tolerated and adverse effects are uncommon if used correctly.
Tobramycin is an aminoglycoside antibiotic derived from Streptomyces tenebrarius and used to treat various types of bacterial infections, particularly Gram-negative infections. Ophthalmic (tobramycin only, Tobrex, or combined with dexamethasone, sold as TobraDex) and nebulised formulations both have low systemic absorption. The formulation for injection is branded Nebcin.