French and English form of ROXANA. This is the name of Cyrano's love interest in the play 'Cyrano de Bergerac' (1897). 
He is the subject of Edmond Rostand's play Cyrano de Bergerac (1897), which depicts him as a chivalric swordsman with a comically long nose. 1. (Biography) Savinien (savinjɛ̃). 1619-55, French writer and soldier, famous as a duellist and for his large nose. He became widely known through the verse drama Cyrano de Bergerac (1897) by Edmond Rostand.
In 1897, the French poet Edmond Rostand published a play, Cyrano de Bergerac, on the subject of Cyrano's life. 
Meaning & History. Possibly derived from the name of the ancient Greek city of Cyrene, which was located in North Africa. Edmond Rostand used this name in his play 'Cyrano de Bergerac' (1897). 
Cyran /cy-ran/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is of Latin, French and Greek origin, and Cyran means spear; from Cyrene. Cyran is an alternate spelling of Corin (Latin): from Quirinus. Cyran is also a variant of Cyrano (French, Greek). Kreatif forms: Cycan, Cyranne, Cyranni. 
French Meaning: The name Cyrano is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Cyrano is: Cyrano de Bergerac was a seventeenth-century soldier and science-fiction writer. Greek Meaning: The name Cyrano is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Cyrano is: From Cyrene (Greek island)
[ 3 syll. cy-ra-no, cyr-ano ] The baby boy name Cyrano is pronounced S IH R-ah-Now (English) †. Cyrano has its origins in the Old Greek language. Cyrano's meaning is 'from Cyrene'. Derivatives of Cyrano include the names Cerano, Ciran, Ciranno, Cirano, Cyran, Cyranno, and Syrano. Cyrano is uncommon as a baby name for boys. It is not in the top 1000 names. Baby names that sound like Cyrano include Sarojin, Serian, Shoursen, Cirineo, Cieran, Ciran, Sahran, Sargan, Sargen, Sargin, Sargon, Serkan, Sharon, Sheron, Sherwen, Shoorsen, Shorsen, Soeren, Soron, and Sorren. 
Meaning of Cyrano. French name. In French, the name Cyrano means-Cyrano de Bergerac was a seventeenth-century soldier and science-fiction writer.. Other origins for the name Cyrano include-French, Greek.The name Cyrano is most often used as a boy name or male name. French Name Meaning-Cyrano de Bergerac was a seventeenth-century soldier and science-fiction writer. Origin-French
Cyrano /cyra-no/ [3 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced SEER-a-noh. It is of French and Greek origin, and the meaning of Cyrano is from Cyrene. Cyrano de Bergerac was a 17th-century soldier and science fiction writer. His talents and his extraordinary nose provided the inspiration for Rostand's popular play Cyrano de Bergerac (1897). Cyran was a seventh-century French saint. Kreatif forms: Ceyrano, Cuyrano, Cyrane.
Then just follow the diagram below. Just for fun, see the name Cyrano in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Cyrano in Nautical Flags page. 