Difference. Saturated fats are solid at room temperature, while unsaturated fats are liquid at room temperature. This is because saturated and unsaturated fats differ in their chemical structures. Saturated fats have no double bond between molecules, which means there are no gaps and the fat is saturated with hydrogen molecules. Unsaturated fats are found in plant foods and fish -- monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fats are unsaturated fats. These good fats are found in liquid vegetable oils, but not tropical oils, according to the American Heart Association.
Let's review. You have an unsaturated solution when there are fewer particles or solutes than solvent in the solution. The characteristics of a solvent are that it can be a liquid, a solid, or a gas, although the solvent is usually a liquid. The most common solvent is water; it is known as the universal solvent. Examples of Unsaturated Solutions. The characteristics of a solvent are that it can be a liquid, a solid, or a gas, although the solvent is usually a liquid. The most common solvent is water; as noted earlier, it is known as the universal solvent. A solution with water as the solvent is known as an aqueous solution.
Unsaturated fats are considered the ‘healthy’ fats and are encouraged as part of a healthy diet. Unsaturated fats are liquid at room temperature, unlike saturated fats that are solid at room temperature. Healthy unsaturated fats come in two main forms, polyunsaturated and monounsaturated. 
unsaturated. adj. 1. not saturated. 2. (Chemistry) (of a chemical compound, esp an organic compound) containing one or more double or triple bonds and thus capable of undergoing addition reactions. 3. (Chemistry) (of a fat, esp a vegetable fat) containing a high proportion of fatty acids having double bonds. 2. unsaturated-used of a compound (especially of carbon) containing atoms sharing more than one valence bond; unsaturated fats. chemical science, chemistry-the science of matter; the branch of the natural sciences dealing with the composition of substances and their properties and
In other words, the chains are saturated with hydrogen. Fats (triglycerides) that contain palmitic acid and stearic acid are therefore known as saturated fats. Fats made up of saturated fatty acids are solid at room temperature. You can also see that oleic acid is not saturated. Two of the carbons are connected by a double bond, and two of the hydrogens are missing
unsaturated-not saturated; capable of dissolving more of a substance at a given temperature; an unsaturated salt solution. saturated, concentrated-being the most concentrated solution possible at a given temperature; unable to dissolve still more of a substance; a saturated solution. 2. unsaturated-used of a compound (especially of carbon) containing atoms sharing more than one valence bond; unsaturated fats. chemical science, chemistry-the science of matter; the branch of the natural sciences dealing with the composition of substances and their properties and reactions.
See also: Saturation (chemistry). In organic chemistry, a saturated compound is a chemical compound that has a chain of carbon atoms linked together by single bonds. Alkanes are an example of saturated compounds. An unsaturated compound is a chemical compound that contains carbon-carbon double bonds or triple bonds, such as those found in alkenes or alkynes, respectively. Saturated and unsaturated compounds need not consist only of a carbon atom chain. They can form straight chain, branched chain, or ring arrangements. They can have functional groups, as well. It is in this sense that fatty acids are classified as saturated or unsaturated.
Unsaturated fat: A fat that is liquid at room temperature and comes from a plant, such as olive, peanut, corn, cottonseed, sunflower, safflower, or soybean oil. Unsaturated fat tends not to raise the level of LDL ('bad') cholesterol in the blood. 
An unsaturated fat is a fat or fatty acid in which there is at least one double bond within the fatty acid chain. A fatty acid chain is monounsaturated if it contains one double bond, and polyunsaturated if it contains more than one double bond. Where double bonds are formed, hydrogen atoms are eliminated. Thus, a saturated fat has no double bonds, has the maximum number of hydrogens bonded to the carbons, and therefore is saturated with hydrogen atoms. In cellular metabolism, unsaturated fat molecules contain somewhat less energy (i.e., fewer calories) than an equivalent amount of saturated fat