Sheikh Muhi Uddin Abdul Qadir Jilani (a.k.a Gilani) has been famous for centuries as the most popular and revered Saint of Islam. He was the founder of the Qadriya order, the most tolerant and charitable of the Sunni order of the dervishes. This order claims countless followers throughout the Muslim world. 
There are two narrations concerning the date of birth of Sheikh Abdul Qadir Jilani (ra). The first narration is that he was born on the 1st of Ramadan 470 AH. The second narration is that he was born on the eve of the 2nd of Ramadan 470 AH. Sheikh Abdul Qadir Jilani (ra) decided to meet this pious servant to obtain his blessings. When Shareef Baaqoobi saw Al-Ghawth al-A’zam (ra) Sheikh Abdul Qadir Jilani (ra), he immediately recognised that this was the Qutb-e-Zaman.
In the words of Shaikh Muzaffer Ozak Efendi: The venerable 'Abd al-Qadir al-Jilani passed on to the Realm of Divine Beauty in A.H. 561/1166 C.E., and his blessed mausoleum in Baghdaad is still a place of pious visitation. 
Sheikh Abdul Qadir Jilani (ra) states that when he had just commenced his spiritual exercises in the jungles of Baghdad, he met a person who was very handsome and had a pious and bright face. The person asked him if he would like to stay with him. Sheikh Abdul Qadir Jilani (ra) said that he would. Sheikh Abdul Qadir Jilani (ra) decided to meet this pious servant to obtain his blessings. When Shareef Baaqoobi saw Al-Ghawth al-A’zam (ra) Sheikh Abdul Qadir Jilani (ra), he immediately recognised that this was the Qutb-e-Zaman.
Seldom have I felt as excited in my life as I did in Baghdad, Iraq. I was in the city for the ceremony of Gyarween Shareef, a ritual that marks the passing of Sheikh Abdul Qadir Jilani (RA), a direct descendent of Hazrat Imam Hussain (RA) and Hazrat Imam Hassan (RA), at the age of 91, at the Jilani Shrine. I was alone, without friends or family.
Family [edit]. Al-Gilani was born around 1077 in Persia. Al-Gilani's father, Abu Salih Musa al-Hasani, was a descendant of Hasan ibn Ali, (Imam Hasan). Hasan was the eldest son of Ali and Fatimah. Ali was Muhammad 's son-in-law and also cousin and Fatima was Muhammad 's daughter. 
When Sheikh Abdul Qadir Jilani (r.a) said, “My foot is on the shoulders of all the Saints”, Sheikh Khwaja Moinudeen Chishti Hassani Sanjari Ajmeri (r.a) was at this moment in the prime of his youth. He was deep in the remembrance of Allah on a mountain in Khorasan. Once whilst he was delivering a lecture, Sheikh Abdul Qadir Jilani (r.a) entered a spiritual state and said, “My foot is on the shoulders of all the Awliya Allah (Saints).” When he uttered these words there were many Awliya Allah in his presence. Each one of them immediately lowered their necks.
Praise be to Allah. Firstly: 1. Abdul-Qadir al-Jilani His full name is Abu Muhammad ‘Abd al-Qaadir ibn Abi Saalih ‘Abdullah ibn Jangi Dost al-Jeeli al-Hanbali. 2. Shaykh ‘Abd al-Qaadir was born in Jeelaan (Jilan) in Tabaristan, in 471 AH; he died in 561 AH. 3
Sheikh Abdul Qadir Jilani (ra) gained deep spiritual knowledge from Sheikh Hammad (ra), who was originally from Syria. He was born in a village near Damascus. He travelled to Baghdad and lived in a place called Muzaffariyyab until his demise in 525 AH. His Mazaar is in the Shawneezia Cemetery in Baghdad Shareef. Sheikh Abdul Qadir Jilani (ra) decided to meet this pious servant to obtain his blessings. When Shareef Baaqoobi saw Al-Ghawth al-A’zam (ra) Sheikh Abdul Qadir Jilani (ra), he immediately recognised that this was the Qutb-e-Zaman.