Egg laying in the Australian Bearded Dragon Below are excerpts on egg laying and incubation in bearded dragons (BDs or beardies) that I and others have written on the Pogona list, an internet discussion list dedicated to the topic of bearded dragons (Pogona vitticeps).
The eggs can often be felt in the female's stomach when she is close to laying. As soon as you see breeding behavior it is a good idea to have a lay area in place and an incubator prepared. A good lay area is imperative to ensure that your bearded dragon does not egg bind. Lay areas may consist of a large area filled with one foot of a mixture of moist, somewhat packed sand and soil, peat moss, or bed-a-beast. go 2 the section with this info or just use this info..lol... Breeding: *Note: Bearded dragon females may cycle infertile eggs without breeding. Breeding often requires a period of hibernation or brumation prior to the breeding season (see section on hibernation).
Egg Binding in Bearded Dragons. Egg binding (Dystocia) in Bearded Dragons can be fairly common, most females will develop eggs even without the presence of a mate. Egg binding occurs when the lizard is unable to lay her eggs whether infertile or not
Remember that bearded dragons need special care, especially babies. And, a female can lay more batches of eggs from just one encounter with a male, so if they are housed together you may want to keep them housed separately and only put them together if you want them to breed. go 2 the section with this info or just use this info..lol... Breeding: *Note: Bearded dragon females may cycle infertile eggs without breeding. Breeding often requires a period of hibernation or brumation prior to the breeding season (see section on hibernation).
How to incubate fertile bearded dragon eggs. Dig all the eggs out of the lay bin making sure you get them all, be thorough! Don't worry, it's OKAY to turn them, they haven't started developing yet! However, do not turn them after 1 week and do not handle before 4 or 5 weeks. How to tell if the eggs are fertile or infertile. Infertile eggs are usually dented and slightly yellow in color. A clutch of infertile eggs. Fertile eggs are full, not dented, more white in color, and if you candle them with an led flashlight, you can see the vein circle which is pinkish in color inside the egg.
Fiona clearly showing eggs in her stomach. One worry is that the female may become egg bound. This can happen if the female has been mated too early and isn't big enough to pass the eggs. Bearded dragons can also become egg bound if they have nowhere appropriate to lay their eggs, and so try to hang onto them instead. Once you are certain your female is gravid then put a container into the vivarium filled with deep sand. This needs to be fairly large, and deep enough so that she can dig a tunnel in it. 
If your female bearded dragon starts scratching and digging constantly around her cage and looks fatter than usual, chances are she is about to lay a clutch of eggs. If she wasn't around a male dragon, it is still possible that she is cycling her eggs and will lay an infertile clutch. How to tell if the eggs are fertile or infertile. Infertile eggs are usually dented and slightly yellow in color. A clutch of infertile eggs. Fertile eggs are full, not dented, more white in color, and if you candle them with an led flashlight, you can see the vein circle which is pinkish in color inside the egg.
If she was around a male dragon, they are most likely fertile and you have to decide if you want to hatch them or not. First, you must provide a place for her to dig and lay her eggs. Bearded dragons like to tunnell and need at least 5 to 6 inches of sand to dig in. How to tell if the eggs are fertile or infertile. Infertile eggs are usually dented and slightly yellow in color. A clutch of infertile eggs. Fertile eggs are full, not dented, more white in color, and if you candle them with an led flashlight, you can see the vein circle which is pinkish in color inside the egg.
In an emergency, like if your dragon lays eggs and you didn't know she was gravid, there are a few things you can do to try and save the eggs. You must work quickly though, you only have about 24 hours to get it right. How to tell if the eggs are fertile or infertile. Infertile eggs are usually dented and slightly yellow in color. A clutch of infertile eggs. Fertile eggs are full, not dented, more white in color, and if you candle them with an led flashlight, you can see the vein circle which is pinkish in color inside the egg.