Blast Chilling / Freezing by Del˜eld® Blast chilling and shock freezing are the best natural systems to extend the shelf life of food. This is why Delfield, utilizing its experience in refrigeration, created the ConvoChill range of blast chillers/freezers. Thanks to an air temperature of -40 ° C, the Te c nomac blast freezer lowers the temperature at the core of the food to -18 ° C in under 240 min, a sufficient time to obtain micro-cr ystallization, keeping all the qualities of the food whole. After defrosting, there will be no loss of liquid, firmness or flavou r.
Blast chilling is a method of cooling food quickly to a low temperature that is relatively safe from bacterial growth. Bacteria multiply fastest between +8 °C (46 °F) and +68 °C (154 °F). The blast chiller is a cousin of the refrigerator, which is designed to store food typically at between +3 °C and +5 °C, but is a higher grade and more expensive appliance and is usually only found in commercial kitchens. As of 2013, in the UK, blast chillers are typically priced from 2,000 to 8,000 GBP excluding VAT.
A Blast Freezer is a specialized category of freezer used to preserve food at a very low temperature to prevent the growth of microorganisms. A Blast Freezer is also known as Shock Freezer. In normal temperature, bacterial growth in food occurs at a rapid, exponential rate. The food becomes unsafe for future consumption. The microorganism cannot thrive in the extremely cold environment of a Blast Freezer. A Blast Freezer is commonly used in food industry.
Thanks to an air temperature of -40 ° C, the Te c nomac blast freezer lowers the temperature at the core of the food to -18 ° C in under 240 min, a sufficient time to obtain micro-cr ystallization, keeping all the qualities of the food whole. After defrosting, there will be no loss of liquid, firmness or flavour. Thanks to an air temperature of -40 ° C, the Te c nomac blast freezer lowers the temperature at the core of the food to -18 ° C in under 240 min, a sufficient time to obtain micro-cr ystallization, keeping all the qualities of the food whole. After defrosting, there will be no loss of liquid, firmness or flavou r.
The T-90 is our low temperature freezer having a temperature range +20°C to -90°C. Our B-120 Blast Freezer with a temperature range of +20°C to -100°C allows for rapid freezing of up to 120 liters of product within 24 hours or less. Thermal stability and freezer reliability are key factors when it comes to cryopreservation. The T-150 accomplishes both through the use of CoLD® technologies, which yield temperature uniformity of ± 3°C. Temperature recovery from an open/close event is less than 10 minutes with a δT of 5°C.
Blast chilling and shock freezing process Blast chilling and shock freezing are the best natural systems to extend the shelf life of food.This is why Tecnomac, utilizing its great experience in refrigeration, created the ChillRapid range of blast chillers/freezers. 
Air temperature. The air temperature in an air blast freezer should be low enough to freeze the fish as quickly as the code of practice recommends; see Advisory Note 27 for details of what quick freezing means and what is necessary to comply with the code. A blast freezer is designed to freeze two tons an hour of a product that takes four hours to freeze. Therefore the freezer must have room for eight tons of that product at a time to maintain the designed output, and the cooler and refrigeration machinery will be designed to cope with two tons an hour.
The simple definition of a blast freezer is a freezer which is extremely cold. They can sometimes be referred too as ‘shock freezers.’ The concept behind shock freezers is to quickly reduce the temperature of food products or fresh produce in order to reduce the metabolic processes significantly. A standard blast freezer can normally handle foods at room temperature or even hot food provided the capacity of the freezer is not exceeded beyond recommended limitations. The inclusion of too much hot food would gradually increase the temperature of the blast freezer-negating the effects of rapid freezing.
A Blast Freezer is commonly used in restaurants, catering unit, bakeries and ice-cream parlors. A Blast Freezer can reduce temperature of a food from +70?C to -18?C in less than 4 hours. Cost of a basic Blast Freeze can range between $5,000 to $35,000. A Blast Freezer is also known as Shock Freezer. In normal temperature, bacterial growth in food occurs at a rapid, exponential rate. The food becomes unsafe for future consumption. The microorganism cannot thrive in the extremely cold environment of a Blast Freezer. A Blast Freezer is commonly used in food industry.
Rapid freezing creates small ice crystals and the smaller the crystals, the less damage to the food. Blast freezer temperatures typically range from -20 degrees to -40 degrees Fahrenheit and air is circulated to further speed the process. Extreme cold inhibits bacterial growth, which needs to be avoided to ensure food safety. 