1 Start on the rib side and generously apply the rub to the ribs. 2  Flip and cover the meat side of the ribs. 3  Let the ribs sit for 15 - 20 minutes to get up to room temperature and marinate in the rub. 4  During this time preheat your grill. Turn on the other burners to medium and let the grill preheat. Then baste the ribs, flip and grill them until the sauce sets on the ribs. Should take about 4-5 minutes with 2 flips. I usually sauce the meat side and then flip the ribs.
Cook. These are done completely on a gas grill and is the first recipe I have found that result in tender ribs without having to boil/steam/ or bake them first. 1 Preheat gas grill for high heat. 2  In a small bowl, combine cumin, chili powder, paprika, garlic powder and salt and pepper Mix well. 3  Trim off the membrane sheath from the back of each rack. 4  You can do this by running a small, sharp knife between the membrane and snip orshimmy off the membrane as much as possible.
To get the best possible ribs from your gas grill, all you need is this seven-step process. For this example, I am using a full rack of trimmed spareribs. You can use baby back ribs with this same method, but reduce the cooking time about 5 minutes per stage. Otherwise, the total cooking time will be between 1 1/2 and 2 hours. Your gas grill must be large enough and contain at least two burners since these ribs will be cooked indirectly. Place the rack, bone side down on the grill, close the lid, and adjust the grill until it holds a temperature of 300 degrees F/150 degrees C. Now, let the ribs cook for 30 minutes.
1 Preheat your TRU-Infrared or gas grill on high with the lid down for 10-15 minutes. 2  Place smoke box in back corner directly on grates if your grill doesn't have a smoke box accessory. 3  I used the Char-Broil wood chip smoker boxes, but a foil pouch with holes also works. 4  Salt and pepper the country-style ribs. Instructions. 1  Preheat your TRU-Infrared or gas grill on high with the lid down for 10-15 minutes. 2  Salt and pepper the country-style ribs. 3  Once wood box (or foil pouch or other wood chip accessory) starts smoking, turn both burners down to medium high and give the grill grates a good brushing. 4  Place the country-style ribs on grill. 5  Sear on both ...
1 Let the ribs sit for 15 - 20 minutes to get up to room temperature and marinate in the rub. 2  During this time preheat your grill. 3  You should only need one burner on. 4  Get the temperature inside the grill to get to about 300-310 Degrees Fahrenheit. Turn on the other burners to medium and let the grill preheat. Then baste the ribs, flip and grill them until the sauce sets on the ribs. Should take about 4-5 minutes with 2 flips. I usually sauce the meat side and then flip the ribs.
Infrared grills, however, can reach top temperatures within three to five minutes [source: Hunter ]. The high temperatures of infrared grills cut the cooking time of proteins by about half when compared to their cooking time on traditional gas or charcoal grill grates. The result is a medium-rare steak in about five minutes or a fully cooked chicken breast in about 10 minutes. 
Place the ribs back in the same place to finish cooking. When smoking ribs it is up to you whether to add sauce or not. However, with the gas grill method I encourage the use of a good barbecue sauce. It adds authentic barbecue flavor to your ribs and adds to the surface texture of the meat. Place the rack, bone side down on the grill, close the lid, and adjust the grill until it holds a temperature of 300 degrees F/150 degrees C. Now, let the ribs cook for 30 minutes.
Brush the ribs with warm sauce and grill over medium heat for 2-3 minutes on each side. Make sure the ribs don't burn! If you sauce earlier, the sugar in the sauce will burn while cooking, which is not a pretty sight. I sometimes cook the ribs way ahead earlier in the day. On a gas grill, use wood chips for great smoked flavors. Soak the chips in water at least 30 minutes and then put them in a smoker box or wrap tightly in aluminum foil with holes punched in the foil. Put them on the burner grate 15 minutes before starting the ribs so you get good smoke from the beginning.