How ever long it takes for the hair to grow, it takes about 12 to 18 months for the hair to grow in fully. Sometimes at 12 months as the hair is cycling into what is known as asynchrony (to be explained), the hair thickness can actually dip a little towards a year. At 18 months, asynchrony can be fully re-established.
10.1k Views. immediately after surgery-quite short transplanted hair you can look, this hair doesn't grow at all. 1 month after surgery-the transplanted hair falls out and you can't tell any-thing was done. three to four months after surgery-transplanted hair starts to grow like a fine soft hair. 4-12 months after surgery-the transplanted hair gets thicker, courser and fuller.
While it may take a while for all the transplanted hairs to grow, even as long as up to 1 year, the hair that is growing is permanent and will continue to grow for a life time. This new hair will look and feel like any other hair on the scalp and can be handled just like normal hair would.
After three and four months of the surgery, the hair will start growing at least half inch per month. But, you will see proper full growth after ten to twelve months. The transplanted hair grafts can continuously grow after twelve months and the hair growth will improve after 15 months. Don’t panic or worried because it is normal and the hair will grow just like the natural normal hair.
While a hair transplant is a safe and efficient procedure, it is also a long term process. Understanding how the transplanted hair grows will help to keep expectations realistic. For the average hair transplant client, the initial growth is slow and the hairs that do grow in are short and thin.
Exactly how long it takes for the transplanted hair to grow is highly individual and depends on many different factors, including the health of the client and the overall success of the hair transplant. A couple of weeks after the hair transplant surgery, hairs are expected to fall out. This is normal and occurs to all hair grafts after any hair transplant procedure. Over the following weeks and months, usually within the first 3 months, the client can expect to see a few new hairs growing in.