The renal pelvis is a hollow area in the centre of each kidney where urine collects. The renal artery brings blood to the kidney. The renal vein takes blood back to the body after it has passed through the kidney. The renal hilum is the area where the renal artery, renal vein and ureter enter the kidney. The nephrons are the millions of small tubes inside each kidney. Each nephron has 2 parts. Tubules are tiny tubes that collect the waste materials and chemicals from the blood moving through
In human anatomy, the ureters are tubes made of smooth muscle fibers that propel urine from the kidneys to the urinary bladder. In the adult, the ureters are usually 25–30 cm (10–12 in) long and ~3–4 mm in diameter. 1 The upper part of the ureter closest to the kidney is supplied by the renal arteries. 2  The middle part of the ureter is supplied by the common iliac arteries, direct branches from the abdominal aorta, and gonadal arteries (the testicular artery in men or ovarian artery in women).
The ureters are two thick tubes which act to transport urine from the kidney to the bladder. They are 25cm long, and are situated bilaterally, with one ureter draining each kidney. The ureteric walls are comprised of smooth muscle, which contracts to produce peristaltic waves. This propels the urine towards the bladder. 
(The word renal refers to kidney.) Blood leaving the kidney enters the major vein, the vena cava, via the renal vein. Also connecting to the kidney is a third tube, the ureter, which conducts urine to the urinary bladder for temporary storage. Location and gross anatomy of the human kidneys. Blood enters the kidney via the renal artery, and almost all of it leaves the kidney through the renal vein. The kidney removes excess ions, water, and other molecules, which are excreted through the ureters as urine. From this plumbing diagram one can get an overview of renal function: blood enters the kidney, wastes and excess molecules are removed with the urine, and the blood is returned to the circulatory system
Human body has two kidneys, which are the prime organs of the urinary system and function to excrete most of the waste products of metabolism. The waste products are formed into urine, which leaves the kidney by passing down the ureters to the urinary bladder, from where it is expelled out of the body through urethra.
Renal hilus: The renal hilus is an indentation near to the centre of the concave area of the kidney. This is the area of the kidney through which the ureter leaves the kidney and the other structures including blood vessels (illustrated), lymphatic vessels, and nerves enter/leave the kidney. Renal capsule:
The renal artery brings blood to the kidney and enters the kidney through the hilus. Within the renal sinus the renal artery branches into segmental arteries. The segmental arteries enter the medulla through the renal columns where the arteries are called the interlobar arteries. 
on the concave side of the kidney, which faces the vertebral column, lies a depressin called Hilus. it provides a placefr the renal vessels, nerves and the ureter to enter or … leave the kidney. The ureters transport the urine from the kidneys to the urinary bladder where it is temporarily stored before being carried out of the body through the urethra.
Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answer by Fr236ff19ng2g4. Confidence votes 332. on the concave side of the kidney, which faces the vertebral column, lies a depressin called Hilus. it provides a placefr the renal vessels, nerves and the ureter to enter or leave the kidney. 
Urine flows from the kidneys to the bladder through the ureters. The wastes in your blood come from the normal breakdown of active muscle and from the food you eat. Your body uses the food for energy and self-repair. After your body has taken what it needs from the food, waste is sent to the blood. 