Radiologists communicate the results of diagnostic and interventional imaging to the doctor who has sent you for the test or procedure, by a written report sent to your doctor. Sometimes, the radiologist will discuss the report verbally (e.g. over the telephone) with your doctor too. Radiologists can choose to work in various sub-specialties of radiology such as breast imaging, interventional radiology, musculoskeletal imaging, cardiac imaging, or paediatric (children’s) imaging.
A radiologist is a medical doctor who specializes in the diagnosis and treatment of disease and injury by using medical imaging technologies, such as MRI and CT. A radiologist who is certified by the American Board of Radiology will clearly meet this recommendation (all Inland Imaging radiologists are board certified). In its practice guidelines, the ACR defines alternative pathways for physician qualification.
Radiology is a medical specialty that uses imaging to diagnose and treat diseases seen within the body. Interventional radiology is the performance of (usually minimally invasive) medical procedures with the guidance of imaging technologies. The acquisition of medical imaging is usually carried out by the radiographer, often known as a radiologic technologist.
Radiologists physicians are usually board certified by the American Board of Radiology (for a doctor of medicine) or the American Osteopathic Board of Radiology (for an osteopathic doctor); an indication of a high level of training, and demonstrated excellence in the field. Radiologists graduate from accredited medical schools, pass a licensing examination, and then go on to complete a residency of at least four years of unique post-graduate medical education in, among other topics: 1  Radiation safety and protection.
Interventional radiology (IR), also known as vascular and interventional radiology (VIR) or surgical radiology, is an independent medical specialty, which was a sub-specialty of radiology until recently, that uses minimally invasive image-guided procedures to diagnose and treat diseases in nearly every organ system. 
Radiologists are usually board certified, that is, have taken and passed an examination and are thus approved to practice in the field by either the American Board of Radiology (for a medical doctor) or the American Osteopathic Board of Radiology (for an osteopathic doctor). Chest Radiology The radiology subspecialty devoted to diagnostic imaging and diagnosis of diseases of the chest, especially the heart and lungs. This includes x-rays, CT (computed tomography or CAT), Ultrasound, MRI and chest procedures, such as lung biopsy and thoracentesis or drainage of fluid from the chest.
Generally, a radiologist: A radiologist is a medical doctor who specializes in the diagnosis and treatment of disease and injury by using medical imaging technologies, such as MRI and CT. Radiologists also treat diseases, such as cancer or heart disease, by means of radiation or minimally invasive, image-guided surgery. Radiologists are often able to see problems early by interpreting the results of your imaging study and can provide an accurate diagnosis to your referring physician. A radiologist who is certified by the American Board of Radiology will clearly meet this recommendation (all Inland Imaging radiologists are board certified). In its practice guidelines, the ACR defines alternative pathways for physician qualification.
Radiologists use a variety of imaging techniques such as X-ray radiography, ultrasound, computed tomography (CT), nuclear medicine including positron emission tomography (PET), and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to diagnose and/or treat diseases. Interventional radiology is the performance of (usually minimally invasive) medical procedures with the guidance of imaging technologies. The acquisition of medical imaging is usually carried out by the radiographer, often known as a radiologic technologist.
A radiologist is a medical doctor that uses technology, computers, medical imaging and medical equipment like MRI, computed tomography (CT Scans), and ultrasound to assist other doctors in figuring out issues related to their patients' medical conditions. The radiologist performs many procedures as part of the interventional radiology doctrine. Examples include drainage of an abscess using ultrasound or CT Scan, stopping a bleed by blocking the vessel that is bleeding, extracting urinary stones and unclogging the urinary system, and treating aneurysms in the brain.
The majority of radiologists also complete a fellowship — one to two additional years of specialized training in a particular subspecialty of radiology, such as breast imaging, cardiovascular radiology or nuclear medicine. 1  Radiation safety/protection. RadiologyInfo.org is not a medical facility. Please contact your physician with specific medical questions or for a referral to a radiologist or other physician. To locate a medical imaging or radiation oncology provider in your community, you can search the ACR-accredited facilities database.