7.20 New ingredients in a compound feed were tested, both in the laboratory and on animals, to check for palatability and toxicity. 20 However, MBM was considered a safe material that did not need testing. Its quality was regarded as the responsibility of the renderers.
In addition, when an animal has the proper balance of trace minerals it is better able to cope with the challenging effects of stress. Availa-4, from Zinpro Performance Minerals® , is built on a unique, patented molecule that consists of one metal ion bound to one amino acid ion – called a metal amino acid complex.
Availa ® 4 is a nutritional feed ingredient for animals that contains a combination of organic zinc, manganese, copper and cobalt.
Animal feed is a formulated mixture created by nutritionists—the dieticians of the animal feed world—to provide the animal with the necessary balanced nutrients for proper growth, development and maintenance. Feed is designed to compensate for nutrients and supplements that may be absent from an animal’s natural diet.
Suitable animal nourishment is an integral part of the food chain. Compound feed plays a vital role in the process of ensuring food safety along the entire livestock and aquaculture production and supply chain.
REPORT HIGHLIGHTS. The global market for animal feed totaled about $99.7 billion in 2012, and sales reached about $106 billion in 2013. At a 6.4% compound annual growth rate (CAGR) from 2013 to 2018, the global animal feed market is expected to rise to almost $144.4 billion in 2018.
Formulation of animal feed. 7.16 Compound feed manufacturers produce both finished compound feeds (suitable for consumption by an animal without further processing), and protein concentrates, which are mixed and diluted with cereals on the farm before they are eaten by animals.
Compound animal feed is a type of animal feed made up of several different ingredients, including vitamins and minerals, to help provide a balanced diet. It is usually fed to animals in the form of compressed pellets.