A cut in taxes would mean that people effectively have more income, therefore more income can be spent on goods and services. This ability for consumers to spend more means that they will demand more, shifting the aggregate demand curve to the right. It is the same in a business sense. If consumer spending increases, the aggregate demand curve will shift to the right. As for investment spendings: interest rates and expected returns affect this variable. As interest rates decrease, there will be more investments made.
Reducing taxes increases the amount of available cash that consumers can use to purchase goods and services. The more cash consumers have, the more purchases they are likely make. As consumers in a country increase spending, it directly increases aggregate demand. Tax cuts could decrease individual income taxes, sales taxes or property taxes. Related Reading: Advantages and Disadvantages of Aggregate Production Planning. 
An increase in government purchases shifts the aggregate demand curve to the left. A decrease in government purchases shifts the aggregate demand curve to the right. The shift in the aggregate demand curve is not exactly the amount of the government purchase though. Changes in Taxes. The two instruments of fiscal policy are government spending and taxation. A tax increase depresses consumer spending and shifts the aggregate demand curve to the left. A tax cut shifts the aggregate demand curve to the right. The size of these shifts are affected by the multiplier and crowding out effects too, but there is another factor which is important. If households perceive that the tax cut is temporary, it will have a very small impact on aggregate demand
Remember that aggregate demand is composed of consumer spending, investment spending, government spending, and net export spending. Many things affect consumer spending. The … main things are consumer wealth, consumer expectations, household indebtedness, and taxes. The wealthier the consumers, the more they will spend. If consumer spending increases, the aggregate demand curve will shift to the right. As for investment spendings: interest rates and expected returns affect this variable. As interest rates decrease, there will be more investments made.
Effect of Tax Cuts. As a general rule, tax cuts increase aggregate demand, since less money paid to the tax authority means more money in the pockets of consumers. In more technical terms, tax cuts result in higher disposable income. Aggregate demand is a function of how much money these players in the economy have to spend. This money is, in turn, a function of how much cash these entities and individuals take in, and to what extent they are willing and able to supplement this cash income by way of borrowing or reduce it by saving.
When government spending decreases, regardless of tax policy, aggregate demand decrease, thus shifting to the left. The fourth term that will lead to a shift in the aggregate demand curve is NX(e). This term means that net exports, defined as exports less imports, is a function of the real exchange rate. As the real exchange rate rises, the dollar becomes stronger, causing imports to rise and exports to fall. Again, an exogenous decrease in the demand for exported goods or an exogenous increase in the demand for imported goods will also cause the aggregate demand curve to shift left as net exports fall. An example of this type of exogenous shift would be a change in tastes or preferences. 1  1.
A cut in taxes would mean that people effectively have more income, therefore more i … ncome can be spent on goods and services. This ability for consumers to spend more means that they will demand more, shifting the aggregate demand curve to the right.  It is the same in a business sense. If there was to be tax cuts for businesses, businesses have the ability to spend more in turn increasing aggregate demand.  ~MB. Because a tax increase will cause consumption to decrease, an aggregate demand has a greater effect.