Sheep dip (computing) is a dedicated computer which is used to test files on removable media for viruses before they are allowed to be used with other computers. In an active sheep dip the antivirus protection is monitored in real time with another program in order to increase security. Antivirus is only effective if it is up-to-date, properly configured, and running.
The world's first sheep dip was invented and produced by George Wilson of Coldstream, Scotland in 1830. That dip was based on arsenic powder and was exported by package steamer from nearby Berwick-upon-Tweed. Sheep dip is available as wettable powders, pastes, solutions or suspensions which are used to prepare diluted solutions or suspensions. The term is used both for the formulation itself, and the trough in which the sheep is dipped. The sheep are completely immersed in the preparation.
Noun. 1. sheep dip-a liquid mixture containing pesticides in which sheep are dipped to kill parasites. liquid-a substance that is liquid at room temperature and pressure. pesticide-a chemical used to kill pests (as rodents or insects). sheep dip. n. Any of various liquid preparations containing pesticides into which sheep are dipped to control externa
The name Sheep Dip is drawn from Nevada's early heritage of sheep herding in the Sierra Nevada. Sheep Dip is a cleansing element in which sheep are literally dipped. Today we dip our newsmakers in the satirical vat of Sheep Dip to cleanse them of their past deeds...so that they may go right back and be foolish again! This annual fundraiser show, dedicated to exposing the follies and foibles of the Truckee Meadows in an evening of skits, songs and dance, is performed by area locals (your neighbors) along with members of the media and even a few of our famous (and infamous) politicians.
Sheep Dip, Inc. is a local nonprofit that raises money for other local nonprofits by putting together an annual fundraiser show that is dedicated to exposing the foibles and follies of the Truckee Meadows with skits, songs, dances and our infamous Shaft Award. 
Top Definition. sheep dip. Half filled bath of hot soapy water shared amongst friends, used to wash off the disco dirt post clubbing or boozing before everyone crashes out on your sofa and floor. I've filled the bath if anyone wants a quick sheep dip to wash off the disco dirt, best get in early before it gets sticky! by ..WiL January 29, 2007.
Sheep dip was also American Central Intelligence Agency argot for a cover story originally connected to Project Oxcart. In computing, the term  sheep dip  refers to passing files through a dedicated computer to test files for viruses before allowing the files into a company or institution. Sheep dip is available as wettable powders, pastes, solutions or suspensions which are used to prepare diluted solutions or suspensions. The term is used both for the formulation itself, and the trough in which the sheep is dipped. The sheep are completely immersed in the preparation.
• SHEEP DIP (noun). The noun SHEEP DIP has 1 sense: 1. a liquid mixture containing pesticides in which sheep are dipped to kill parasites. Familiarity information: SHEEP DIP used as a noun is very rare. 
Sheep dip is a liquid formulation of insecticide and fungicide which shepherds and farmers may use to protect their sheep from infestation against external parasites such as itch mite (Psorobia ovis), blow-fly, ticks and lice. Sheep dip is available as wettable powders, pastes, solutions or suspensions which are used to prepare diluted solutions or suspensions. The term is used both for the formulation itself, and the trough in which the sheep is dipped. The sheep are completely immersed in the preparation.