The United States, and a few other common law countries, split the corporate constitution into two separate documents (the UK got rid of this in 2006). The memorandum of Association (or articles of incorporation) is the primary document, and will generally regulate the company's activities with the outside world. Corporate law is a part of a broader companies law (or law of business associations).
Liability. While not all states require an LLC state its business purpose in its articles of organization, its good policy for an LLC to have a business purpose. In most cases, someone who sues an LLC cannot go after the personal assets of its members. In many states, the members can put a general statement declaring the purpose of the LLC is for “all lawful business.” This language protects the LLC in the event that the business activities change to something the members did not originally anticipate.
Under corporate law, corporations of all sizes have separate legal personality, with limited or unlimited liability for its shareholders. Corporate law is a part of a broader companies law (or law of business associations).
Corporate law (also company or corporations law) is the study of how shareholders, directors, employees, creditors, and other stakeholders such as consumers, the community and the environment interact with one another. Corporate law is a part of a broader companies law (or law of business associations). Other types of business associations can include partnerships (in the UK governed by the Partnership Act 1890), or trusts (like a pension fund), or companies limited by guarantee (like some community organizations or charities)
Ultra vires is a legal doctrine that states any act a business entity takes that is outside the scope of its business purpose is invalid. Under this doctrine, for example, an LLC could be sued for acts it took outside the scope of what its stated business purpose was. In many states, the members can put a general statement declaring the purpose of the LLC is for “all lawful business.” This language protects the LLC in the event that the business activities change to something the members did not originally anticipate.
Corporations, considered in another point of view, are either sole or aggregate. 13. A sole corporation, as its name implies, consists of only one person, to whom and his successors belongs that legal perpetuity, the enjoyment of which is denied to all natural persons. 12. Corporations, considered in another point of view, are either sole or aggregate. 13. A sole corporation, as its name implies, consists of only one person, to whom and his successors belongs that legal perpetuity, the enjoyment of which is denied to all natural persons. 1 Black Com. 469.
An aggregate corporation is an ideal body, created by law, composed of individuals united under a common name, the members of which succeed each other, so that the body continues the same, notwithstanding the changes of the individuals who compose it, and which for certain purposes is considered as a natural person. 12. Corporations, considered in another point of view, are either sole or aggregate. 13. A sole corporation, as its name implies, consists of only one person, to whom and his successors belongs that legal perpetuity, the enjoyment of which is denied to all natural persons. 1 Black Com. 469.
For a partnership, the legal name of your business is either the name given in your partnership agreement or the last names of the partners. If your new business if either a corporation or a limited liability corporation (LLC), your legal business name is the name that you registered with the state government. After deciding on a business form, the owner will need to come up with a legal name for the business. The legal name is the name of the person or entity that owns a business.
A limited liability company (LLC) is the United States-specific form of a private limited company. It is a business structure that combines the pass-through taxation of a partnership or sole proprietorship with the limited liability of a corporation. An LLC is not a corporation; it is a legal form of a company that provides limited liability to its owners in many jurisdictions. A Limited Liability Company (LLC) is a hybrid business entity having certain characteristics of both a corporation and a partnership or sole proprietorship (depending on how many owners there are). An LLC, although a business entity, is a type of unincorporated association and is not
United States corporate law regulates the governance, finance and power of corporations in US law. Delaware's law has also followed the same general logic, even though it has no specific constituency or stakeholder statute. The standard is, however, contested largely among business circles which favor a view that directors should act in the sole interests of shareholder value.