Whether they bill by the hour or by the case, defense lawyers typically want defendants to pay a retainer fee up front, before the attorney begins working on the case. For example, a lawyer who bills at the rate of $100 an hour may want clients to pay up front for 20 hours of the lawyer’s time, or $2,000. 
Retainer fee deposit amounts are dependent on the specific investigation service provided. For example, data research may require an average deposit of $500-$1500 while infidelity, child custody and workers compensation cases may require an average retainer fee deposit between $1,500-$5,000. Criminal defense work may require an average retainer fee of $1,500-$3,500
In Missouri, an attorney may charge anywhere from $500 up to $25,000 as a retainer. The average retainer fee in Missouri is about $3,500, and lawyers bill against that at an average hourly rate of $200, according to DivorceSupport.com. The amount of your retainer will depend on how complicated your divorce is and what you’re fighting over. Some Missouri lawyers will charge you a flat fee in this case, rather than bill their time against retainer fees. These flat fees average about $500, but might exceed that figure if you have children.
Estate Planning. The most common form of retainer fees apply to lawyers, who in most cases require those seeking services to provide an upfront retainer fee, for example $500. Community Property. The most common form of retainer fees apply to lawyers, who in most cases require those seeking services to provide an upfront retainer fee, for example $500.
1 A lawyer will almost always want to meet and discuss the specific circumstances of your case before quoting a fee, either an hourly rate ($100-$300) or a flat charge based on the type of case, such as $500-$1,200 for first-time drunk driving charges. 1 A retainer is an up-front fee you pay to hire your attorney, usually a percentage of the total case fee or the equivalent of several hours work. 2  A lawyer working on an hourly basis deducts that hourly rate from the retainer as the work is done; when the retainer is gone, you are billed for additional payment.
Contingency fees are generally used for personal injury cases, i.e. rear-ender accidents, that will result in a percentage of the recovery to the attorney without having to put a retainer or up-front monies. Some kid out of law school would charge much less than a seasoned professional of 20-30 years. $150 an hour vs $350. If you could be specific I would tell you more accurately what kind of retainer I would charge in my market.
Believe it or not, rates may vary anywhere from $50 an hour to a $1,000 an hour or more. In rural areas and small towns, lawyers tend to charge less, and fees in the range of $100 to $200 an hour for an experienced attorney are probably the norm. In major metropolitan areas, the norm is probably closer to $200 to $400 an hour. Lawyers with expertise in specialized areas may charge much
Many attorneys offer flat fees for uncontested divorces; others charge retainer fees, which act as deposits they bill against monthly for the hours they invest in cases. The average flat fee ranges from $200 to $1,500, depending on the complexity of your assets and whether you have children. If you retain an attorney, he will bill your deposit at the rate of $250 to $450 for each hour of his time. The average cost is about $300. You can also hire an attorney by the hour to review your paperwork for you. This will cost less than a flat uncontested divorce rate, but would not require putting down a retainer fee. You’re not retaining the attorney; you’re purchasing his time by the hour, just for specific services.