A urinary tract infection-a UTI can cause cloudy urine. The urinary tract infection may be accompanied with burning or painful urination. A bladder infection (a more specific type of urinary tract infection), also known as Cystitis, may cause cloudy urine. There are a variety of cloudy urine causes. If your urine color is cloudy or looks like milky urine, it could be nothing to worry about … or it could be a sign of a serious illness. Keep in mind that cloudy urine is a symptom and not an illness by itself
This means that light can pass through it clearly or is slightly diffused. Cloudy urine, however, is almost opaque and may have a murky appearance to it. Sometimes cloudy urine may have a more mustard color bordering on a yellowish-brown hue. Below is a list of other conditions that may contribute to a cloudy or murky urine, or result in similar disturbances of the urine color and consistency. 1  Abnormal vaginal discharge (women). 2  Proteinuria, protein in urine.
Cloudy urine that has a foul odor (fishy), especially if it is accompanied by a foul urethral discharge, is most likely due to a urinary tract infection. However, a lack of odor and discharge does not exclude an infection as a possible cause of cloudy urine. Below is a list of other conditions that may contribute to a cloudy or murky urine, or result in similar disturbances of the urine color and consistency. 1  Abnormal vaginal discharge (women). 2  Proteinuria, protein in urine.
Not anything serious. Cloudy urine could mean urine with debris, contaminated urine or infected urine. Cloudy alone doesn't mean much. It needs with it the signs of a UTI, such as frequency, burning, smell, and urgency to have real meaning. In your case, consistent with contamination.
Kidney stones may cause cloudy urine. They can cause pus in the urine, which gives your pee that milky or cloudy look. If you have kidney stones, the pain of the stones may lead you to see a doctor more quickly than the cloudy urine. There are a variety of cloudy urine causes. If your urine color is cloudy or looks like milky urine, it could be nothing to worry about … or it could be a sign of a serious illness. Keep in mind that cloudy urine is a symptom and not an illness by itself
Healthy urine is clear and light yellow in color. Urine may appear cloudy for a variety of reasons, some of which are not harmful, such as foaming of the urine that occurs temporarily when urinating rapidly. Cloudy urine can be caused by a variety of conditions, including vaginal discharge, sexually transmitted diseases, dehydration, certain autoimmune disorders, as well as infection, inflammation, or other conditions of the urinary tract (kidneys, ureters, bladder and urethra).
Normal urine is clear and has a straw-yellow color. When the urine does not have its characteristic clear appearance, it is often referred to as cloudy, turbid, or foamy urine. Cloudy or foamy urine may occur occasionally due to mild dehydration; when it occurs in the absence of symptoms and goes away rapidly, it is usually of little consequence. Certain conditions can cause excess protein or crystalline substances in the urine, causing it to persistently appear cloudy or foamy. Infections anywhere in the urinary tract can cause blood and pus to appear in the urine, giving it a cloudy appearance. Additionally, many of the numerous causes of blood in the urine can yield a cloudy or murky appearance to the urine due to the presence of blood.
Some possible cloudy urine causes are: Food can cause a change in the consistency and color of your urine, although they are not the usual cause of cloudy urine. Blood in urine-When the blood is microscopic, it may not show bright red or dark red but rather it may appear as cloudy urine. There are a variety of cloudy urine causes. If your urine color is cloudy or looks like milky urine, it could be nothing to worry about … or it could be a sign of a serious illness. Keep in mind that cloudy urine is a symptom and not an illness by itself