Average Nurse Practitioner salaries for job postings in Indiana are 4% lower than average Nurse Practitioner salaries for job postings nationwide. 
Nurse Practitioner Salary in Indiana. The average Nurse Practitioner Salary in Indiana (IN) is $85,590 which is again below the average national salary for Nurse Practitioners (NP’s). The latest figures show that there are 2,650 Nurse Practitioners working in the state of Indiana across a range of industries. Registered Nurse Salary in Indiana. The average salary for a Registered Nurse in Indiana (IN) is $57,520 which is below the national average for RN’s viewed across all U.S. states. There are approximately 58,430 people employed as Registered Nurses in the state of Indiana – across a range of varied industries.
New Search Indiana Nurse Practitioner SalariesNew SearchWithin Indiana there is a lot of variation in Nurse Practitioner Salaries. These variations depend on on a wide range of factors from population to general competitiveness in the market. 
Listed below is information that is specific to Nurse Practitioner job salaries that you can expect to receive in that state area. Our state by state breakdown allows you to see which state is best to get a job as a Nurse Practitioner. The salary information provided below is off of real-world job listings for Nurse Practitioners and the pay offered for those jobs. We source Indeed, Simply Hired, PayScale and GlassDoor.com
The following is a list of requirements for Nurse Practitioners by state. Salary data for this set was sourced from Indeed.com. Alabama. 1  Average NP salary*: $96,000. 2  Comparison with national average: 1% higher. 3  NP requirements**: RN license, graduate degree, national certification. 
Salary. The pay is good. In 2013, nurse practitioners made a median salary of $92,670. The highest-paid 10 percent earned $126,250 and the lowest-paid 10 percent earned $66,960. For the best salary potential, you should head to the metropolitan areas of Columbus, Indiana; Texarkana, Texas; or San Jose, California. 
Salary Outlook. The pay is good. In 2013, nurse practitioners made a median salary of $92,670. The highest-paid 10 percent earned $126,250 and the lowest-paid 10 percent earned $66,960. For the best salary potential, you should head to the metropolitan areas of Columbus, Indiana; Texarkana, Texas; or San Jose, California. Nurse practitioners make comfortable salaries by any standards. Best Paying Cities for Nurse Practitioners. The highest paid in the nurse practitioner profession work in the metropolitan areas of Texarkana, Texas, Stockton, California, and San Jose, California. The Bloomington, Illinois area also pays well, as does the city of Columbus, Indiana
The salary for someone with the job title Nurse Practitioner in Indianapolis, IN varies depending on a number of factors. This chart describes the expected percentage of people who perform the job of Nurse Practitioner in Indianapolis, IN that make less than that salary. For example 50% of the people who perform the job of Nurse Practitioner in Indianapolis are expected to make less than the median.