Sealants coat the inside of the tire and wheel with a messy residue, which a tire shop has to clean out, possibly causing extra expense. They can potentially gum up the tire-pressure monitor sensor (TPMS), if so equipped, risking erroneous readings. However, in our tests, we had no sensor become inoperable. Pressurized-can sealers ($7.50 to $10), such as the ubiquitous Fix-A-Flat, are one-time-use products that have a dispensing tube that screws to a tire’s air-inflation valve.
The Advantages of Tire Puncture Sealant. One of the greatest advantages of using a canned tire puncture sealant is convenience. You simply attach the nozzle of the can to the tire valve stem and release the contents of the can into the tire. 
These sealers can both patch a hole and inflate the tire. Tire-sealant kits ($20 to $80) combine a portable 12-volt air compressor and a replaceable container of sealant. More and more new cars supply this kind of kit in lieu of a spare tire. Despite their roles, these products are not spare tires in a can. Pressurized-can sealers ($7.50 to $10), such as the ubiquitous Fix-A-Flat, are one-time-use products that have a dispensing tube that screws to a tire’s air-inflation valve.
Safety When Changing Tires.... 5. Cancel. Sealant to fix a flat tire works temporarily only; the car should be taken to get a replacement tire. Learn to use tire sealant to fix a flat tire from an auto mechanic in this free auto repair video. Part of the Video Series: Tire Repair & Fixing a Flat. 1  Remove Lug Nuts to Fix a Flat Tire. 
1 Screw the can of Fix-a-Flat onto the valve stem, you'll hear it start to fill the tire with air. 2  When it stops filling, unscew the can and replace the valve stem cap. 3  Drive the car right away. 4  The sealant in the magic can needs to circulate evenly inside the tire to fill the leaky hole and ride evenly. Get ready to save the day: 1  Pull over to a safe area. 2  Remove the black cap from the valve stem (the nipple that the air comes in through). 3  Put the cap in a safe place, you'll need to put it back on when you're done.*. 4 
Remove the valve stem cap from the tire. If the tire still has air in it, use a small screwdriver to press in on the valve core to release all the air pressure from the tire. Use the valve core removal tool to remove the valve core and set it aside for later use. 
User Rating: Slime Tire Sealant. This stuff works great. I had a lawnmower tire that had a slow leak, it sealed it and that was it. For the others that rated this product keep in mind that Slime does not inflate tires. Slime also will not seal or repair a leak in a valve stem or a puncture in a sidewall of a tire. I was skeptical that Slime Tire Sealant would work for this blown out tire. Unlike Fix-A-Flat that uses a propellant in the can to push the sealant into the tire, Slime used just the pressure of squeezing the bottle by hand.
How to Use Fix-a-Flat on a Flat Tire. Warning: There is some evidence that aerosol tire sealers can harm TPMS (Tire Pressure Management Systems). If your car is equipped with tire pressure warnings, please consult the manufacturer before you add a can to your roadside emergency kit. Get ready to save the day: 1  Pull over to a safe area. 2  Remove the black cap from the valve stem (the nipple that the air comes in through). 3  Put the cap in a safe place, you'll need to put it back on when you're done.*. 4  Screw the can of Fix-a-Flat onto the valve stem, you'll hear it start to fill the tire with air.
Having a flat tire is one of the major inconveniences of driving. When a spare tire is unavailable or is also in disrepair, you only have a few options. This article will tell you how to fix a flat tire. Read the directions on the can of sealant you have brought. Various manufacturers have slightly different steps and required amounts you should put in. Might want to locate some safety glasses and gloves. 1  If necessary, attempt to locate and pull out the object that has punctured your tire.
Brian our technician shows us how to fix a flat tire using the spare tire inflator and sealant kit on a 2015 Chevy Malibu. Ray Chevrolet. Phone: (847) 754-4538. http://www.raychevrolet.com. Ray Chevrolet is your premiere Chevrolet Dealer in the Chicagoland area. Phone: (847) 754-4538. Address: 39 N Route 12. Fox Lake, IL 60020. 