However, you may have to pay taxes and penalties on earnings in your Roth IRA. Withdrawals from a Roth IRA you've had less than five years. If you take a distribution of Roth IRA earnings before you reach age 59½ and before the account is five years old, the earnings may be subject to taxes and penalties. 
However, there are a few ways to avoid the penalty. If you take a distribution from your retirement plan early (meaning before the day you turn 59 1/2) you will generally have to pay a 10% early distribution tax above and beyond any regular income taxes you may owe on the money. 
First-time homebuyers. Though you may take money out of your 401(k) to use as a down payment, expect to pay a 10 percent penalty. However, take the money from your IRA, and it's penalty-free. The penalty-free withdrawal is not limited to first-timers either. Homebuyers must not have owned a home in the previous two years, though. Further you can take more than one penalty-free withdrawal to buy a home, but there is a $10,000 limit. 
Take care to avoid these five significant retirement penalties: IRA early withdrawal penalty. If you withdraw money from your IRA before age 59½, you will generally have to pay a 10 percent early withdrawal penalty in addition to income tax on the amount withdrawn. So, if you withdraw $5,000 from your IRA at age 40, you’ll need to pay a $500 tax penalty. 
+ More. If you withdraw money from your individual retirement account before age 59 1/2, you will generally have to pay a 10 percent early withdrawal penalty in addition to income tax on the amount withdrawn. If you die before age 59 1/2, your traditional IRA can be distributed to a beneficiary or your estate without incurring the 10 percent penalty. However, if a spouse inherits the IRA and elects to treat it as his or her own, it may become subject to the 10 percent penalty.
You can also withdraw money from a traditional IRA and avoid paying the 10% penalty if you roll the money over into another qualified retirement account (such as a Roth IRA) within 60 days. But then you wouldn't actually be able to spend it. But you can escape that 10% tax penalty if you're withdrawing the money for a few specific reasons. These include: 1  Paying college expenses for you, your spouse, your children or grandchildren. 2  Paying medical expenses greater than 7.5% of your adjusted gross income.
Turn age 59 1/2. Once you turn age 59 1/2, you can withdraw any amount from your IRA without having to pay the 10 percent penalty. But regular income tax will still be due on each withdrawal. IRA distributions are not required until after age 70 1/2. [Read: How to Save for Retirement on a Small Salary.]. If you die before age 59 1/2, your traditional IRA can be distributed to a beneficiary or your estate without incurring the 10 percent penalty. However, if a spouse inherits the IRA and elects to treat it as his or her own, it may become subject to the 10 percent penalty.
Penalties on Earnings from Contributions. Unless an exception applies, most distributions from a Roth IRA before the owner reaches age 59 1/2 will be subject to an early withdrawal penalty of 10% on the amount of the distribution. 
You can take money out of your Roth IRA anytime you want. However, you need to be careful how much you withdraw or you may get stuck with a penalty. In order to make qualified distributions in retirement, you must be at least 59½ years old, and at least five years must have passed since you first began contributing. Well, the IRS views withdrawals from a Roth IRA in the following order: your contributions, money converted from traditional IRAs and finally, investment earnings. For example, let's say your IRA has $100,000 in it, $50,000 of which are contributions and $50,000 of which are