Darjeeling tea is a tea from the Darjeeling district in West Bengal, India. It is available in black, green, white and oolong. When properly brewed, it yields a thin-bodied, light-coloured infusion with a floral aroma. Many Darjeeling teas also appear to be a blend of teas oxidized to levels of green, oolong, and black. 1  First flush is harvested in mid-March following spring rains, and has a gentle, very light colour, aroma, and mild astringency. 2  In between is harvested between the two flush periods.
Unlike other Indian teas such as Assam teas, the Darjeeling teas produced in India are grown from the small-leaved variety of the Chinese tea tree instead of the more common Assam tea tree. As mentioned above, Darjeeling tea is known as a black tea, and most people associate Darjeeling teas with being a black tea. Finally the lowest grade of Darjeeling black teas is called “dust” and is very fine fragments of tea leaves and stems. Try to stay away from the dust or fannings grades of Darjeeling black tea to ensure the best quality of your Darjeeling
Darjeeling tea is known as the Champagne of Teas.. Darjeeling tea is a black tea grown at the foot of the Himalayas, in the Darjeeling region of northern India. The UK Tea Council refers to Darjeeling as the Champagne of Teas, in honor of its exquisite flavor. Black, green and white teas are all made from the leaves of the Camellia sinensis plant, and have been shown to fight cancer, cavities and obesity. 
Darjeeling Tea can be defined as the most exotic, expensive and exclusively flavored tea. The flavor of an individual Darjeeling Tea is as unique as human personality, sophisticated, complex, gentle and delicate, relaxing and enigmatic. A delight to be in the company of. According to the Tea Board Of India - Darjeeling Tea means: The Darjeeling Tea Logo is the property of Tea Board of India and was launched in 1983. It symbolizes and verifies the packet/caddy etc contains 100% pure Darjeeling Tea which is original and unblended with any other teas from other growth.
Darjeeling Teabags. Darjeeling tea is considered the champagne of teas. It is generally considered a lighter afternoon tea, but it depends on the time of year the leaves are harvested. 1st flush-Springtime harvested teas from late Feb. to mid April. The young leaves yield a light tea with generally intense muscatel with a point. 14 Item(s). Show. Darjeeling, considered the┬achampagne áchampagne of, teas it is the most prominent afternoon, tea but the flavor of the blend varies upon when the leaves are. Harvested if harvested Between february and-Mid, april the leaves are young and compose a lighter tea with a distinct muscatel. flavor
$12. Darjeeling Sungma Summer is a second flush black tea from the famous Darjeeling region of India. Darjeeling tea is treasured for its rich golden liquor and distinctive muscatel (a type of grape) flavor. This tea scores high on both counts. Bright and aromatic, floral muscat grape aroma with notes of warm spice and sugary squash. Plush, tangy mouthfeel with a sweet finish and balanced astringency. Darjeeling Sungma Summer is a second flush black tea from the famous Darjeeling region of India
Darjeeling oolong is lighter than usual Darjeeling black tea during first flush, as it is semioxidized. The cup looks light orange and infusion remains green. Darjeeling oolong in second flush is more accepted worldwide. It is more thick in cup and dark orange in liquor with distinct muscatel flavours. Many Darjeeling teas also appear to be a blend of teas oxidized to levels of green, oolong, and black. 1  First flush is harvested in mid-March following spring rains, and has a gentle, very light colour, aroma, and mild astringency. 2  In between is harvested between the two flush periods.