Green Anole Size. Male green anoles may grow to 8 inches, while females seldom exceed 5 to 6 inches. Young hatch at three-quarters to 1 inch in length. With a SVL (snout-to-vent length) of a large adult male being roughly 4 inches, fully half a green anole’s length is its tail. 
A green anole has a life expectancy between 4 to 8 years and while that's a daily commitment for the upcoming years, they are reasonably easy to care for provided you get the set-up correct (which requires a bit of expenditure). 1 Anoles may also eat waxworms, fruit flies, small worms, canned crickets, small spiders, or earthworms. 2  Avoid feeding anoles with mealworms. 3  These pass through them undigested, wasting energy in eating and not getting any energy from the food. 4  Anoles prefer to get their water in the form of droplets off plants.
5-8 inches is how big a green anole can get. Green anoles usually eat small creatures like crickets and mealworms, but some anoles will lap up baby food or lick fruits. Then some green anoles will eat fruits, lettuce, cu … cumber cut into small pieces, plants, etc.
How to Care for Green Anole Lizards. A delightful small lizard, the green anole (Anolis carolinensis) makes a popular choice for an easy care reptile pet. They're the kind of pet that will entertain you with their busy antics during daylight and their beautiful color is lovely to behold. Odds are, you will probably see this type of lizard in your garden. 1 Anoles may also eat waxworms, fruit flies, small worms, canned crickets, small spiders, or earthworms. 2  Avoid feeding anoles with mealworms. 3  These pass through them undigested, wasting energy in eating and not getting any energy from the food. 4  Anoles prefer to get their water in the form of droplets off plants.
The males can grow as large as their green anole male counterparts, around 17.8–20.3 cm (7.0–8.0 in) long, with some individuals topping 22.9 cm (9.0 in). The females are also around the size of female green anoles: 7.6–15 cm (3.0–5.9 in). The male brown anole's head is smaller than that of the male green anole. Also, the brown anole's tail has a ridge that travels all the way up to behind the head, a feature the green anole lacks. 
Genus/species: Anolis carolinensis. Description. The green anole is generally about five to eight inches (13 to 20 cm) long. Females are usually smaller and can be under five inches (13 cm) long. Green anoles have adhesive lamellae on their foot-pads for crawling along walls, much like geckos. Able to change color, the green anole can be anywhere from bright green to browns and grays.
Anoles are a type of lizard found in Floridian nature. Most anoles are small in size ranging from 3-6 inches in length. The Knight anole is the largest anole in the state of Florida and can get to be over 13 inches long! Green anoles are the most abundant anole in the state and are sometimes confused with chameleons because of their ability to change colors. 
Email Article. The Green Anole (Anolis carolinensis) is one of the most familiar lizards in North America. There are more than 300 species of anoles throughout the world, over half of which are found in North, Central, and South America. The Green Anole is the only anole native to the United States. Physical characteristics. Green Anoles are small lizards that grow to 5-8 in length. They have a long tail, long claws, and are lighter in color around the throat and neck. Green Anoles have the ability to change color among shades of green and brown.