PLAIN yogurt with no fruit, sugar, or sweetener added has a pH of around 4. So it is a little acidic BUT the way it processes in your body, because of the live cultures, it changes pH during digestion (ONLY PLAIN YOGURT) - kind of like lemon or RAW apple cider vinegar.
Eating high-acidic foods such as processed foods often causes indigestion. This results from the body becoming too acidic. Eating yogurt lowers the body's pH and aids in digestion. Along with yogurt's beneficial live active cultures, it balances acidic pH, bringing it closer to the optimal pH range.
When eating more alkaline-forming foods, the body stores minerals; when your body is too acidic, these minerals are used up as your body tries to maintain an optimum pH balance in the blood. This is thought to aggravate arthritic conditions and could lead to a weakening of the bones as phosphorus is taken from them.
The other is acid or alkaline forming foods, which means the acid or alkaline forming ability of foods to affect the body or to say differently, the pH condition foods cause in the body after being digested. This is the one that will be the focus in changing the body's pH.
pH Basics. A food's acidity is measured using the pH scale. Foods that have a pH of between 0 and 6.9 on the pH scale are acidic -- with lower pH values indicating higher acidity -- while those that have a pH of between 7.1 and 14 are alkaline. Products that have a pH of 7.0 are neutral, and they're neither acidic or alkaline. The University of Guelph in Ontario, Canada, reports that plain yogurt that has undergone all stages of culturing and fermentation has a pH of approximately 4.0, which makes it acidic.
Yogurt's tangy flavor occurs as a result of its acidity. A food's acidity is measured using the pH scale. Foods that have a pH of between 0 and 6.9 on the pH scale are acidic -- with lower pH values indicating higher acidity -- while those that have a pH of between 7.1 and 14 are alkaline. Products that have a pH of 7.0 are neutral, and they're neither acidic or alkaline. The University of Guelph in Ontario, Canada, reports that plain yogurt that has undergone all stages of culturing and fermentation has a pH of approximately 4.0, which makes it acidic.