When Rob Kazinsky auditioned for his new role as Ben Flynn on the sixth season of True Blood, the 29-year-old British actor simply thought he was reading a part to play a faerie. My intention from the beginning of this was to add some masculinity to the word 'faerie,' he tells Rolling Stone from London. 
RedOrmTheViking’s analysis is directly below, with my comments afterwards. BRITISH actor Rob Kazinsky was originally cast in the role of Fili for The Hobbit films. He can be seen on the first production v-log walking around the Bag End set with other members of the cast during the “blocking” phase of pre-production. Ringer RedOrmTheViking offers some intriguing analysis of The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey. He proposes that Rob Kazinsky, who was originally slated to play the role of Fili, actually appears on screen once during the Misty Mountains song sequence at the beginning of the film.
Rob Kazinsky, who was cast initially in the role of Fili but who had to walk away from The Hobbit last week due to health issues, was today replaced by New Zealand actor Dean O’Gorman. On his Twitter page, Rob has tweeted a few words for Dean. Ringer RedOrmTheViking offers some intriguing analysis of The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey. He proposes that Rob Kazinsky, who was originally slated to play the role of Fili, actually appears on screen once during the Misty Mountains song sequence at the beginning of the film.
Rob Kazinsky, the EastEnders actor, has quit his role in The Hobbit film and is returning to Britain for personal reasons. The 27-year-old actor is best known for his role as Sean in the popular BBC soap opera Photo: GETTY. By Paul Chapman in Wellington. 4:03PM BST 25 Apr 2011. Comments. He had been cast as Fili, one of 13 dwarves who accompany the character Bilbo Baggins on his journey to defeat the dragon Smaug in JRR Tolkien's classic tale.
He is best known for his appearances as Casper Rose in the Sky One drama Dream Team, Sean Slater in the BBC One soap opera EastEnders, Chuck Hansen in Guillermo Del Toro 's film Pacific Rim and Macklyn Warlow in the sixth season of HBO 's True Blood in 2013. Kazinsky is Jewish —his parents are descended from immigrants from Poland and Russia. He is a fluent speaker of Hebrew. Kazinsky was educated at Hove Park School in Hove, from 1995 to 2000.
Robert Kazinsky. Actor | Soundtrack. Robert Kazinsky was born Robert John Appleby in Haywards Heath, Sussex, England, to Phyllis and Paul Appleby, and grew up in the seaside town of Brighton, on England's southern coast. Both of his parents are from Polish Jewish/Russian Jewish families. Kazinsky studied theatre at the Guildford School of Acting from 2002-2005 graduating with full ...
Robert Kazinsky is an English actor and model. He is best known for his appearances as Casper Rose in Sky One drama Dream Team in 2005/2006 and Sean Slater in the BBC One soap opera EastEnders from 2006 to 2009.
Kazinsky was born in Haywards Heath, the son of Phyllis and Paul Appleby, and grew up in Brighton. He has an older brother, Michael. Kazinsky is Jewish —his parents are descended from immigrants from Poland and Russia. He is a fluent speaker of Hebrew. Kazinsky was educated at Hove Park School in Hove, from 1995 to 2000.
[{{{myspace}}} Myspace]. [{{{twitter}}} Twitter]. [[:Category:{{{Images}}}|Images]]. Rob Kazinsky, born Robert John Appleby on November 18, 1983 in Haywards Heath, West Sussex, is a British model and actor who plays the role of Macklyn Warlow on the HBO original series True Blood. 
Robert Kazinsky (born Robert John Appleby; 18 November 1983) is an English film, stage and television actor and model. Kazinsky is Jewish —his parents are descended from immigrants from Poland and Russia. He is a fluent speaker of Hebrew. Kazinsky was educated at Hove Park School in Hove, from 1995 to 2000.