In the heart, the auricle is a small, cone-shaped pouch that projects from the atrium, one of the upper chambers. The visible part of a person's ear is called the auricle, also known as the pinna. View slideshow of images above. Watch the Did-You-Know slideshow. In the context of human anatomy, the auricle can refer to either one of two distinct body parts: the outer ear or an internal “pouch” or protective layer in the heart. These parts aren’t related except for their shared name.
Often confused with the left atrium, it is one of the most prominent structural features of the left atrium and plays an important role in the pumping of blood within the heart. The name auricle comes from the Latin word auricula, which means “ear” and refers to the floppy dog-ear shape of the auricle.... 1 The outermost layer of the auricle is the epicardium, a layer of simple squamous epithelial tissue that gives the auricle a smooth, slick surface. 2  Pericardial fluid is produced by the epicardium to lubricate its surface and prevent irritation during the movement of
auricle. 1. the flap of the ear in the form of a funnel-like organ which collects the sound waves. Called also pinna. 2. the ear-shaped appendage of either atrium of the heart; formerly used to designate the entire atrium. auricle (o´ô) , rikəl n. 1 the oval flap of the external part of the. ear n. 2, atrium the chamber of the heart that receives the: blood on the, right from the general, circulation and on the, left from the pulmonary.
Auricle. The auricle is also known as the pinna, and it is most commonly referred to as the ear. It is the most obviously visible part of the auditory system. An auricle consists of skin over contoured cartilage, and it is held in place by muscles and ligaments. Shape may differ by body type and person. Auricles are located on both sides of the head, near the temple and where the jaw meets the skull.
auricle. 1. the projecting part of the ear lying outside the head; called also pinna. Auricle. 2. the ear-shaped appendage of either atrium of the heart; formerly used to designate the entire atrium. (aw'ri-kl), [TA] Avoid the outmoded use of this word in the sense of atrium. auricle (o´ô) , rikəl n. 1 the oval flap of the external part of the. ear n. 2, atrium the chamber of the heart that receives the: blood on the, right from the general, circulation and on the, left from the pulmonary.
The left auricle is a thin pouch of the heart wall located on the anterior surface of the left atrium. Its walls are only about one sixteenth of an inch (1 mm) in thickness and less than 1 inch (2.5 cm) in length. 1 The outermost layer of the auricle is the epicardium, a layer of simple squamous epithelial tissue that gives the auricle a smooth, slick surface. 2  Pericardial fluid is produced by the epicardium to lubricate its surface and prevent irritation during the movement of the heart.
Left Auricle. The left auricle, also known as the left atrial appendage (LAA), is a flap of heart wall on the anterior surface of the left atrium of the heart. 1 The outermost layer of the auricle is the epicardium, a layer of simple squamous epithelial tissue that gives the auricle a smooth, slick surface. 2  Pericardial fluid is produced by the epicardium to lubricate its surface and prevent irritation during the movement
In the Heart. When referencing the heart, the auricle typically describes part of either the left of the right atrium. The human heart is made up of four main chambers, two ventricles and two atria, one each on the left and right sides. Atria typically sit just above the ventricles and help process blood as it pumps. In the context of human anatomy, the auricle can refer to either one of two distinct body parts: the outer ear or an internal “pouch” or protective layer in the heart. These parts aren’t related except for their shared name.