Most cases of yeast infection in the United States are caused by Candida albicans. Yeast is the term for a fungus that exists as a single-celled organism rather than as hyphae. There are about 500 species of yeasts in 60 genera, or about 1000 species of yeasts or yeast-like organisms. 
Candida albicans is a diploid fungus that grows both as yeast and filamentous cells and a causal agent of opportunistic oral and genital infections in humans, and candidal onychomycosis, an infection of the nail plate. An unusual feature of the Candida genus is that in many of its species (including C. albicans and C. tropicalis, but not, for instance, C. glabrata) the CUG codon, which normally specifies leucine, specifies serine in these species.
Candida Albicans is an opportunistic fungus (or form of yeast) that is the cause of many undesirable symptoms ranging from fatigue and weight gain, to joint pain and gas. The Candida Albicans yeast is a part of the gut flora, a group of microorganisms that live in your mouth and intestine. When the Candida Albicans population starts getting out of control it weakens the intestinal wall, penetrating through into the bloodstream and releasing its toxic byproducts throughout the body. Almost everyone has Candida Albicans in their gut, and a significant proportion of us may have Candidiasis, or an overgrowth of Candida. Candida Albicans starts to cause trouble when there is some change in your body that allows it to overgrow.
C. albicans is commensal and a constituent of the normal gut flora comprising microorganisms that live in the human mouth and gastrointestinal tract. Overgrowth of the fungus results in candidiasis (candidosis). Candidiasis is often observed in immunocompromised individuals, including HIV-infected patients. An unusual feature of the Candida genus is that in many of its species (including C. albicans and C. tropicalis, but not, for instance, C. glabrata) the CUG codon, which normally specifies leucine, specifies serine in these species.
Candida Albicans. Candida Albicans is the formal name for the fungus or yeast that is responsible for yeast infections. Normally it lives in symbiosis in the human body along with a variety of other healthy bacteria. It has a variety of names and is also known as thrush, athletes feet, vaginal yeast infection, Candida, Candida yeast, yeast syndrome or yeast infection. When it enters the blood stream is then called systemic Candida or Candidiasis. The overgrowth of Candida Albicans is rampant in our society due to two main factors
About Candidiasis. Candidiasis is a fungal infection caused by yeasts that belong to the genus Candida. There are over 20 species of Candida yeasts that can cause infection in humans, the most common of which is Candida albicans. Candida yeasts normally live on the skin and mucous membranes without causing infection; however, overgrowth of these organisms can cause symptoms to develop. Candidiasis in the vagina is commonly referred to as a yeast infection.. Invasive candidiasis occurs when Candida species enter the bloodstream and spread throughout the body. Click the links below for more information on the different types of Candida infections.
The most common species is Candida albicans, also referred to scientifically as C. albicans. (Sometimes the period is left off, as in “c albicans”, and Internet users occasionally mistype the name, so sometimes is appears as “C. albican”.) The next most common pathogenic Candida species is Candida glabrata. The scientific name is normally shown in italics, and will appear as “ C. albicans ”, or “ C. glabrata ”. The term for a systemic Candida infection, most commonly from Candida albicans, but from other species of Candida as well, is Candidiasis (kan-da-deye’-a-sis).
Photomicrograph of the fungus Candida albicans. Candidiasis is a fungal infection caused by yeasts that belong to the genus Candida. There are over 20 species of Candida yeasts that can cause infection in humans, the most common of which is Candida albicans. Candida yeasts normally live on the skin and mucous membranes without causing infection; however, overgrowth of these organisms can cause symptoms to develop. Candidiasis in the vagina is commonly referred to as a “ yeast infection .” invasive candidiasis occurs when Candida species enter the bloodstream and spread throughout the body.