If you're just starting to explore the many benefits of herbal supplements, Puritan's Pride can help you sort out your options. Whole Herbs are made from ground plants and may include the roots, leaves and/or stems of the plants and other natural ingredients.
People use dietary supplements for many health conditions. 1  Historically, people have used herbal medicines to prevent illness, cure infection, relieve fever, and heal wounds. 2  Herbal medicines can also treat constipation, ease pain, or act as relaxants or stimulants.
Herbal supplements are products made from plants for use in the treatment and management of certain diseases and medical conditions. Herbal supplements commonly address specific medical concerns, such as the common cold, menopause, or memory loss.
Herbs at a Glance DHHS. NIH. National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health. Find fact sheets with information about specific herbs or botanicals—common names, what the science says, potential side effects and cautions, and resources for more information.
Find evidence-based information on individual ingredients such as herbs, vitamins, minerals, and other dietary supplements. The supplement monographs on RxList include a description, review of effectiveness, how it works, safety concerns, and interactions with medications.
Vitamins and other nutritional and herbal supplements are frequently used by people with CFS. There have been few clinical trials on nutritional supplements and vitamins, these products are unregulated, and information on potency and side effects is frequently unknown.
If you use herbal supplements, it is best to do so under the guidance of a medical professional who has been properly trained in herbal medicine. This is especially important for herbs that are part of an alternative medical system, such as the traditional medicines of China, Japan, or India.
Herbal supplements are a type of dietary supplement that contain herbs, either singly or in mixtures. An herb (also called a botanical) is a plant or plant part used for its scent, flavor, and/or therapeutic properties.
The use of herbal supplements has increased dramatically over the past 30 years. Herbal supplements are classified as dietary supplements by the U.S. Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act (DSHEA) of 1994.
People commonly take them for health-related reasons. Common dietary supplements include vitamins and minerals (such as vitamin C or a multivitamin), botanicals (herbs and plant products, such as St. John's wort), and substances that come from a natural source (such as omega-3 fatty acids).