Top 10 facts about the world. A butter cake is a classic cake recipe made with butter. It’s sometimes called a shortening cake because some types of fat other than butter can be used in the cake, such as margarine or vegetable shortening. Butter, one of the ingredients in butter cake. Butter cakes can be made white by leaving out the egg yolks. Yellow cake is one variety of butter cake. White sugar is typically used as a sweetener for butter cake recipes.
1 In a large bowl, mix the flour, 2 cups sugar, salt, baking powder and baking soda. 2  Blend in buttermilk, 1 cup of butter, 2 teaspoons of vanilla and 4 eggs. 3  Beat for 3 minutes at medium speed. 4  Pour batter into prepared pan. 
Gooey butter cake is generally served as a type of coffee cake and not as a formal dessert cake. There are two distinct variants of the gooey butter: a bakers' gooey butter and a cream cheese and commercial yellow cake mix variant. It is believed to have originated in the 1930s. The St. Louis Convention & Visitors Commission includes a recipe for the cake on its website, calling it one of St. Louis' popular, quirky foods; the recipe calls for a bottom layer of butter and yellow cake batter, and a top layer made from eggs, cream cheese, and, in one case, almond extract.
Preheat oven to 320 degrees F. Mix together sugar, flour, salt, soda, shortening and butter in the bowl of a stand mixer. Mix on 2nd speed for 3 minutes. Then add whole eggs, buttermilk and vanilla to the mixture and beat again for 3 minutes on 2nd speed. In a separate bowl, beat the egg whites and sugar into a meringue state. 
Gooey butter cake is a type of cake traditionally made in the American Midwest city of St. Louis. Gooey butter cake is a flat and dense cake made with wheat cake flour, butter, sugar, and eggs, typically near an inch tall, and dusted with powdered sugar. The St. Louis Convention & Visitors Commission includes a recipe for the cake on its website, calling it one of St. Louis' popular, quirky foods; the recipe calls for a bottom layer of butter and yellow cake batter, and a top layer made from eggs, cream cheese, and, in one case, almond extract.
Butter cake is just one flavor that can be used for wedding cakes. Butter cake is light and airy with the addition of a leavening agent like baking powder or baking soda. Butter, one of the ingredients in butter cake. Butter cakes can be made white by leaving out the egg yolks. Yellow cake is one variety of butter cake. White sugar is typically used as a sweetener for butter cake recipes.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. A butter cake is a cake in which one of the main ingredients is butter. Butter cake is baked with most basic ingredients: butter, sugar, eggs, flour, and leavening agents such as (baking powder or baking soda). It is considered as one of the quintessential cakes in American baking. Butter cake originated from the English pound cake, which traditionally used equal amounts of butter, flour, sugar, and eggs to bake a heavy, rich cake.
1. Preheat oven to 350°. Sift flour, baking powder, and salt into a medium bowl; set aside. In the bowl of a stand mixer, beat sugar and 1/2 cup butter until creamy. Crack eggs into a small dish (do not beat) and add vanilla. Add eggs to the butter mixture 1 at a time, scraping down the inside of the bowl as needed
Preheat oven to 350°. Combine the cake mix, egg and 8 tablespoons butter and mix well with an electric mixer. Pat the mixture into the bottom of a lightly greased 13 by 9-inch baking pan. In a large bowl, beat the cream cheese until smooth. Add the eggs, vanilla and 8 tablespoons butter and beat together