CBO Estimates the New-Ship Construction Costs in the Navy’s Plan At About $19 Billion per Year. The Navy estimates that buying the new ships specified in the 2015 plan would cost $500 billion over 30 years, or an average of $16.7 billion per year—slightly less than the costs of the 2014. Report. CBO estimates that the cost of the Navy’s 2015 shipbuilding plan—an average of about $21 billion per year (adjusted for inflation) over 30 years—would be one-third higher than the funding that the Navy has received in recent decades.
Based on a report issued by the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) , there has been media reporting and discussion about the cost estimating methodology used by the Navy to forecast over the 30-year shipbuilding plan. The Navy’s confidence in our cost estimates in the FYDP (i.e, the current budget window) is extremely high. From FY13 through FY17, there is great stability in our shipbuilding programs. Pending Congressional approval, DDG 51 and Virginia Class submarines will be procured via fixed price incentive multiyear contracts
Under the President’s proposals, U.S. output would be 0.4 percent higher, on average, from 2016 through 2020, and 1.7 percent higher from 2021 through 2025, than under current law. Deficits are projected to be $1.4 trillion smaller over the next decade than they would be under current law. Spending for those child nutrition programs more than doubled in real terms from 1990 to 2014. CBO expects continued increases in food prices and demographic changes to contribute to further spending growth.
In 2014, the federal government spent about $20 billion to reimburse schools, child care centers, and after-school programs for children’s meals. Spending for those child nutrition programs more than doubled in real terms from 1990 to 2014. CBO expects continued increases in food prices and demographic changes to contribute to further spending growth.
94 Why Has the Cost of Navy Ships Risen? ships was nearly equal to one. 2 If we control for size using Equation E.1, the annual escalation rate for the passenger ships becomes 2.9 percent. This value is more in line with the European GDP deﬂator annual growth rate of 2.2 percent over the same time frame. Options for the Navy to Reduce Ship Costs 65 shift to surface combatants, then build amphibious ships, then con-struct submarines again. This would increase the rate of production for a given type of ship during a speciﬁed time and perhaps realize learn-ing beneﬁts, economies of scale, and other beneﬁts.
The Navy acknowledges in the 30-year plan that the accuracy of its estimates decrease in the mid to far term planning periods. However, our 30-year plan provides the best estimate possible balancing stable costs in the near-term and cost projections of capability required over time. The Navy’s confidence in our cost estimates in the FYDP (i.e, the current budget window) is extremely high. From FY13 through FY17, there is great stability in our shipbuilding programs. Pending Congressional approval, DDG 51 and Virginia Class submarines will be procured via fixed price incentive multiyear contracts
The Navy estimates for these ships are based on the cost knowledge of today’s ships escalated to the far-term. Overall the Navy’s 30-year plan is built upon the confidence in our estimates during the next five years and the affordability focus placed on our new shipbuilding programs. The Navy’s confidence in our cost estimates in the FYDP (i.e, the current budget window) is extremely high. From FY13 through FY17, there is great stability in our shipbuilding programs. Pending Congressional approval, DDG 51 and Virginia Class submarines will be procured via fixed price incentive multiyear contract
Including the costs of refueling aircraft carriers and other items, such as outfitting new ships, raises the overall average cost of the Navy’s plan to $20.7 billion per year, CBO estimates. That figure is slightly less than CBO’s estimate of the average annual cost of the Navy’s 2014 plan. CBO’s estimate of the cost of new-ship construction in the Navy’s 2015 shipbuilding plan is $66 billion, or 13 percent, higher over the next 30 years than the Navy’s estimate. Report. CBO estimates that the cost of the Navy’s 2015 shipbuilding plan—an average of about $21 billion per year (adjusted for inflation) over 30 years—would be one-third higher than the funding that the Navy has received in recent decades.