Right:- The Dee Bridge. © Crown copyright (2013) Visit Wales. The famous Dee Bridge, was built by Bishop Trevor of Trevor Hall in I345. It is a scheduled ancient monument and was widened in the 1960’s to accommodate modern traffic. © Crown copyright (2013) Visit Wales. The Canal. From Llangollen Wharf you can embark on a 45-minute horse drawn trip or a two hour trip on the traditional Canal narrow boat, which takes you through the Vale of Llangollen and across the Britain's biggest aqueduct at Trevor.
The Llangollen line became the primary water source from the River Dee for the central section of the incomplete Ellesmere Canal. As such it was not built as a broad-gauge waterway but as a navigable feeder branch. Eventually the Ellesmere Canal became part of the Shropshire Union network in 1846. The canal was later renamed the Llangollen Canal, becoming one of the most popular canals for holidaymakers in Britain. A notable feature of the canal is the Pontcysyllte Aqueduct, built by Thomas Telford. Opened in 1805, the aqueduct is more than 300 metres (980 ft) long and 38 metres (125 ft) above the valley floor.
Croeso! Welcome to Llangollen! Renowned for the surrounding hills and the River Dee, Llangollen has something for every visitor. We have an astonishing range of cafes, cafés, bars, hotels, restaurants guest, Houses&B, bs cottages and campsites to suit every. pocket
1 Llangollen Traean contained the townships of Bachau, Cysylltau, Llangollen Abad, Llangollen Fawr, Llangollen Fechan, Feifod, Pengwern and Rhisgog. 2  Trefor Traean contained the townships of Cilmediw, Dinbren, Eglwysegl, Trefor Isaf and Trefor Uchaf. The annual Llangollen International Eisteddfod starts on a Tuesday and ends on the following Sunday. It opens with a parade led by the Llangollen Silver Band, in which both locals and visitors take part in dancing, singing, and playing musical instruments.
From the South. Exit M6 at junction 10A for M54 and Shrewsbury and onto A5 the London to Holyhead Road, follow signs for A5 past Oswestry and onto (10 miles) Llangollen. Take right turn at traffic lights in the center of town and drive down onto bridge, the Hotel will be opposite on the right. About The Bridge End Hotel. Ideally suited for Business and Leisure, the Bridge End Hotel offers guests exceptional value, friendly and efficient service. Lunches are served every day with an interesting and varied menu from the Specials board.
Valle Crucis Abbey dating from the 13th century is 2 miles from Llangollen. It is well worth a visit and shows the sheer scale of buildings in the 14th century. It was largely destroyed during the reign of Henry VIII. © Crown copyright (2013) Visit Wales. The Canal. From Llangollen Wharf you can embark on a 45-minute horse drawn trip or a two hour trip on the traditional Canal narrow boat, which takes you through the Vale of Llangollen and across the Britain's biggest aqueduct at Trevor.
The railway was extended from Ruabon, via Acrefair and Trevor, to reach Llangollen by 1865, operating passenger and goods services. Thie Ruabon to Barmouth Line became part of the Great Western Railway. The annual Llangollen International Eisteddfod starts on a Tuesday and ends on the following Sunday. It opens with a parade led by the Llangollen Silver Band, in which both locals and visitors take part in dancing, singing, and playing musical instruments.
Workmen have begun removing sections of Llangollen's historic chain bridge in a £465,000 restoration project which will see it reopened to the public after more than 30 years. Llangollen Town Council and Llantysilio Community Council have been trying to raise funds to carry out the bridge's repairs since 2007. The Heritage Lottery Fund pledged £350,000 last year.
Llangollen takes its name from the Welsh llan meaning a religious settlement and Saint Collen, a 6th-century monk who founded a church beside the river. St Collen is said to have arrived in Llangollen by coracle. The annual Llangollen International Eisteddfod starts on a Tuesday and ends on the following Sunday. It opens with a parade led by the Llangollen Silver Band, in which both locals and visitors take part in dancing, singing, and playing musical instruments.
The Llangollen Canal (Welsh: Camlas Llangollen) is a navigable canal crossing the border between England and Wales. The waterway links Llangollen in Denbighshire, north Wales, with Hurleston in south Cheshire, via the town of Ellesmere, Shropshire. The canal was later renamed the Llangollen Canal, becoming one of the most popular canals for holidaymakers in Britain. A notable feature of the canal is the Pontcysyllte Aqueduct, built by Thomas Telford. Opened in 1805, the aqueduct is more than 300 metres (980 ft) long and 38 metres (125 ft) above the valley floor.