Netherlandish painter, active in his native Amsterdam and in Antwerp. A pioneer of still life and genre painting, he is best known for scenes that at first glance look like pure examples of these types, but which in fact have a religious scene incorporated in them (. , University of Uppsala, 1551). His depictions of food, flowers, and everyday objects make him important in the development of still-life painting. Aertsen was the head of a long dynasty of painters, of whom the most talented was his nephew and pupil Joachim Bueckelaer. Nicknamed Lange Pier (Peter the Long), born in Amsterdam, he became a citizen of Antwerp in 1542 where he resided until around 1556. Hosted initially by Jan Mandyn, a gifted follower of Hieronymus Bosch, Pieter Aertsen links the Dutch and the Flemish schools. His sons, Pieter Pietersz and Aert Pieterz, also became painters. Aertsen also trained his nephew Joachim Beuckelaer
A pioneer of still life and genre painting, Pieter Aertsen is best known for scenes that at first glance look like pure examples of these types, but which in fact have a religious scene incorporated in them (Butcher's Stall with the Flight into Egypt, University of Uppsala, 1551). Our art gallery not only supply high-quality Pieter Aertsen works, but also sell Mannerism oil paintings classic. The famous artists in our art company are good at on canvas Aertsen paintings sale and other beautiful painting wholesale.
Dutch old master Pieter Aertsen paintings sale, supply biography, works, well-known Mannerism art reproductions on canvas in museum quality, and fine art oil painting reproduction. Toperfect, the terminal to your hard journey of searching for Pieter Aertsen paintings! Search: Our art gallery not only supply high-quality Pieter Aertsen works, but also sell Mannerism oil paintings classic. The famous artists in our art company are good at on canvas Aertsen paintings sale and other beautiful painting wholesale.
Go to Artist A-Z. Aertsen was probably a native of Amsterdam, in the Northern Netherlands, but spent most of his career in the South, in Antwerp; in 1560 he moved back to Amsterdam. Aertsen's work included the painting of large altarpieces as well as smaller devotional works. 
Title: Still Life with Meat and the Holy Family. Description: Trained in his native city of Amsterdam, from 1535 Aertsen was also notably active in Antwerp, at that time the commercial and artistic capital of the Low Countries and one of the leading urban centres in Europe.
Toperfect online art gallery supplies famous oil painting reproduction of top Dutch painter Pieter Aertsen and his biography, as well as famous Aertsen paintings for sale, hand painted art oil painting masterpiece in museum quality, and other well-known Mannerism painting on canvas. Our art gallery not only supply high-quality Pieter Aertsen works, but also sell Mannerism oil paintings classic. The famous artists in our art company are good at on canvas Aertsen paintings sale and other beautiful painting wholesale.
Pieter Aertsen, called Lange Pier because of his height, was a Dutch painter in the style of Northern Mannerism, who invented the monumental genre scene combining still life and genre painting, and very often also including a biblical scene in the background. You have Javascript turned off in your browser. 
One of Aertsen’s best-known works is Still Life with Meat and the Holy Family (also known as The Meat Stall or The Butcher’s Stall), which the artist signed and dated in 1551. The present version in the Coleccion Colección santander is of notable quality and was painted In’aertsen s own. studio Trained in his native city of Amsterdam, from 1535 Aertsen was also notably active in Antwerp, at that time the commercial and artistic capital of the Low Countries and one of the leading urban centres in Europe.
Still Life with Meat and the Holy Family-Pieter Aertsen, Studio-Google Cultural Institute. Trained in his native city of Amsterdam, from 1535 Aertsen was also notably active in Antwerp, at that time the commercial and artistic capital of the Low Countries and one of the leading urban centres in Europe.