The Cairn Terrier male will reach heights between 10-13 inches and an average weight of 14-18 pounds. The female Cairn Terrier is slightly smaller, reaching heights between 9-12 inches and an average weight of 13-17 pounds. The Cairn Terrier has a weather resistant double coat. The top coat will feel rough to the touch, however the undercoat is quite soft.
How much should a Cairn Terrier puppy cost from a breeder? We found a breeder on the AKC breeder classifieds and called her, she said her puppies cost $950 plus tax. Report Abuse. You could get a Cairn for much MUCH cheaper if you check your local shelters first. Up to 40% of dogs in shelters are purebred, and not only would you be saving money you'd be saving a life! Check out www.petfinder.com and search by breed.
The Cairn Terrier is one of the oldest of the terrier breeds, originating in the Scottish Highlands and recognized as one of Scotland's earliest working dogs. The breed was given the name cairn, because the breed's function was to hunt and chase quarry between the cairns in the Scottish highlands. Although the breed had existed long before, the name Cairn Terrier was a compromise suggestion after the breed was originally brought to official shows in the United Kingdom in 1909 under the name Short-haired Skye terriers.
1 On the average, Cairn Terrier puppies that range from 12 to 22 weeks old are sold for anywhere from $350-$800. 2  The price depends on the breeder and your location as well as other factors. 1 There are online pet shops that sell Cairn Terriers. 2  You may browse the internet to find these dogs sold at a lower price. 3  Different breeders have different prices, too. 4  PetFinder is a resource that many use to find a dog in their area. 5  It will also save you money to have your new dog picked up rather than delivered.
Cairn Terriers are indoor dogs that children and adults alike will love to have. These dogs are short, shaggy haired, and fairly long for their height. They generally have large heads, pricked up ears, and can come in a variety of colors. These dogs are also an ideal gift to someone who loves pets. 1 There are online pet shops that sell Cairn Terriers. 2  You may browse the internet to find these dogs sold at a lower price. 3  Different breeders have different prices, too. 4  PetFinder is a resource that many use to find a dog in their area. 5  It will also save you money to have your new dog picked up rather than delivered.
The lowest price we've ever had advertised for the Cairn Terrier is $300; the most expensive price is $1,395. Generally the average Cairn Terrier costs around $585 to purchase. Keep this in mind when you see the prices vary greatly within our listings. If you don’t mind having the runt of the litter, or a pup who is far from a champion Cairn Terrier, by all means explore the cheaper options.
How much is it? 1  On the average, Cairn Terrier puppies that range from 12 to 22 weeks old are sold for anywhere from $350-$800. 2  Older Cairn Terriers that are a year old or more can cost anywhere from $100 to $500. 1 There are online pet shops that sell Cairn Terriers. 2  You may browse the internet to find these dogs sold at a lower price. 3  Different breeders have different prices, too. 4  PetFinder is a resource that many use to find a dog in their area. 5  It will also save you money to have your new dog picked up rather than delivered.
how much will a Cairn Terrier puppy cost? or how much would a puppy USUALLY cost? Report Abuse. From a quality breeder will cost about 600 to 800 dollars U.S. they are delightfull adorable dogs and i had one for 11 years before she passed on. If you let it can become the best and faithfull friend you will have for many years to come.
Yorkshire Terriers are quite expensive. Yorkies run anywhere from $400.00 on up to $3,500.00 It just depends on their background and also if the parents were show dogs. You … can get a very nice one for 4 to 5 hundred dollars by just watching you local newspaper. 
The Cairn Terrier is considered to be one of the oldest terrier breeds. They originated in the Scottish Highlands and the Isle of Skye. Cairn Terriers were originally lumped in with the Scottish Terrier and the West Highland White Terrier as one breed. The female Cairn Terrier is slightly smaller, reaching heights between 9-12 inches and an average weight of 13-17 pounds. The Cairn Terrier has a weather resistant double coat. The top coat will feel rough to the touch, however the undercoat is quite soft.