Growing pepper plants is easy. Sweet bell peppers, and many hot peppers, are native to Central and North America. A wide range of hot pepper varieties are also native to Asia, most notably Thailand and China. It used to be that any grower who liked peppers, would plant several sweet green bell pepper plants in their garden. If the weather is still cool in your area, delay transplanting a few days, if possible.Tender, young seedlings do well in hot kaps and cold frames. Space 18-24 inches apart, in rows 24 to 36 inches apart. This spacing varies a little for each variety. Pepper plants prefer moist soil.
Germination Temperature for Peppers. Pepper seeds require a temperature range between 65 and 95 degrees Fahrenheit. The optimum temperature for germination is 85 degrees Fahrenheit. At the optimum temperature, pepper seeds germinate and sprout within eight days. The best way to control soil temperature when planting pepper seeds is to use a seed starting flat and a heating pad
Pepper transplants can go into the garden as soon as plants are 4 to 6 inches tall and the soil temperature has reached 60F or above–70F is optimal. Peppers can suffer some setback or be slow to grow if the night time temperature does not stay above 55F. • Protection. Set plants out when the soil temperature is 60°F–70°F is better. Do not rush peppers into the garden until the soil is warm. They will not do well if the soil is cool. You can warm the garden bed by covering the ground with a black plastic mulch or sheeting for two weeks before transplanting.
Site. Grow peppers in full sun (at least 6 hours per day) in soil that is rich in organic matter, moisture retentive but well draining. Peppers prefer a soil pH of 6.0 to 6.8. If the pH is below 6.0 add limestone to the soil; if the pH is above 8.0 add peat moss to lower the pH.
Planting time. Hot peppers grow best in daytime air temperatures 65° to 80°F and night temperatures above 55°F (nighttime temperatures between 60° and 70° are best). Peppers are most easily grown from transplants. Start seed indoors 7 to 10 weeks before the date you intend to set peppers into the garden. Grow peppers in full sun (at least 6 hours per day) in soil that is rich in organic matter, moisture retentive but well draining. Peppers prefer a soil pH of 6.0 to 6.8. If the pH is below 6.0 add limestone to the soil; if the pH is above 8.0 add peat moss to lower the pH.
Peppers belong to the Solanaceae family of plants. Temperature is key when it comes to getting seeds to germinate. Pepper seeds require the right combination of heat and dampness to get the growing process started. Cold temperatures slow germination and, when too cold, will prevent germination from happening at all. The optimum temperature for germination is 85 degrees Fahrenheit. At the optimum temperature, pepper seeds germinate and sprout within eight days.
Freezing and chilling injury in tomato and pepper plants. Although frost occurs, by definition, when the temperature drops to 0 ° C at 1.5 meters above the ground, this may or may not result in freeze damage to crops. Chilling and freezing injury of tomato and pepper fruit. The fruit of warm season crops like tomato and pepper can be injured by low temperatures. Chilling injury occurs in tomato fruit if they experience temperatures of 10 ° C for longer than 14 days or temperatures of 5 ° C for more than 6 to 8 days.
• Temperature Sensitive. Plant peppers where they will be shaded by taller plants later in the summer. Peppers drop blossoms when temperatures exceed 90°F. Peppers are particularly sensitive to temperature at flowering time. There will be poor fruit set if nighttime temperatures fall below 55°F or rise above 75°F. • Protection. Set plants out when the soil temperature is 60°F–70°F is better. Do not rush peppers into the garden until the soil is warm. They will not do well if the soil is cool. You can warm the garden bed by covering the ground with a black plastic mulch or sheeting for two weeks before transplanting.
When you move to plant peppers outside, your plants will do better once temperatures are staying above 55 degrees F. at night. Before that, they will grow quite slow. Starting pepper plants indoors is best because growing bell peppers require this higher nighttime temperature. Growing bell peppers should be done in the warm season. This usually means you don’t put them outside until sometime near Memorial Day. When thinking about how to grow peppers, remember that they prefer higher temperatures, and when you plant peppers you need to be sure that the chance of frost is long gone.