Confidence votes 3.1K. As of the start of the 2009 season, Fenway Park in Boston is the oldest stadium still in continuous use having opened in 1912. Wrigley Field opened in 1914. 
Forbes Field, the world's first baseball stadium opened in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania on June 30 1909. Forbes Field was home to the Pittsburgh Pirates until it closed on June 28 1970. 
The Coliseum is also on its way to becoming the last multipurpose stadium in the United States that hosts both Major League Baseball and an NFL team. That will happen by 2012 when the Minnesota Twins and Florida Marlins complete their new stadiums. With the demise of Shea Stadium following the 2008 season, Dodgers Stadium is the last park in the National League with symmetrical outfield distances, and one of only four left in all of baseball.
All except ten MLB stadiums (Angel Stadium of Anaheim, Dodger Stadium, Fenway Park, Kauffman Stadium, Marlins Park, Nationals Park, Oriole Park at Camden Yards, Turner Field, Wrigley Field, and Yankee Stadium being the exceptions) have sold the naming rights to their stadiums to corporations. The newest MLB stadium is Marlins Park in Miami, Florida, home of the Miami Marlins, which opened for the 2012 season.
If the question is asked, what the oldest baseball stadium in major league baseball, you might shout FENWAY PARK. Yet others may say that Forbes Field was the first baseball stadium built. If the questioned, however is, what is the oldest continually used baseball park, then the answer is a bit different. Labatt Park is the oldest continually operating baseball grounds in the world. It has a history dating back to 1877 and since December 31, 1936 the park has been owned by the City of London, Ontario, Canada. Formally Tecumseh Park, 1877-1936, it is a baseball stadium near the Thames River. But American Baseball is my subject and the Oldest MLB Baseball Stadium in the USA is Fenway Park. Fenway Park has been the home field for the Boston Red Soxs since it opened in 1912 and is the oldest Baseball Stadium currently in use
Fenway Park. Location Boston, MA. Historic Fenway Park is home to Major League Baseball’s Boston red Sox. The Park opened in 1912 and is the oldest stadium in all of baseball. The park has been renovated and expanded a number of times, resulting in unique and quirky features that make it the most distinct park in baseball. 
Marlins Park, the newest stadium in Major League Baseball. The following is a list of Major League Baseball stadiums, sorted by capacity, their locations, their first year of usage and home teams. The newest MLB stadium is Marlins Park in Miami, Florida, home of the Miami Marlins, which opened for the 2012 season.
Rickwood Field, located in Birmingham, Alabama, is the oldest surviving professional baseball park in the United States. 
It began with the dazzling Skydome in Toronto in 1989 and was followed by Camden Yards in Baltimore in 1992, the first of the “retro” parks that now proliferate Major League Baseball. Now, there are only eight stadiums that predate that time. The following is a list of the oldest ballparks in MLB. Instant $250 Free Bonus Bet from Bovada-CLICK HERE Fenway Park Fenway Park opened in 1912 and, along with Wrigley Field, is a lasting example of the first wave of baseball stadium building. With the demise of Shea Stadium following the 2008 season, Dodgers Stadium is the last park in the National League with symmetrical outfield distances, and one of only four left in all of baseball.