1 The average office space in the United States is around $39 per square foot according to CushWake.com. 2  An office building in Indianapolis will run around $25 per square foot. 3  An office building in downtown New York City will run around $65 per square foot. 1 There are going to be many factors that need to be factored in. 2  The location of the building, the amenities, the age of the building, the foot traffic and more will greatly influence the price. 3 
Start a company in Chicago, and you’ll pay half as much to rent commercial office space as in New York. And it’s even cheaper in other major cities. The average monthly rent for a square foot of office space is $1.74 in Atlanta and $1.92 in Dallas, according to data from TheSquareFoot. But in San Francisco, the price jumps to $5.43. It’s even pricier in New York City at an average of $6.16 — and that’s across all five boroughs. Here’s how much the average office space costs per employee in your city, based on allocating 200 square feet per employee:
Divide that amount by your usable square footage to calculate your actual price per usable square foot. For example, if the rentable square footage is 1,130 and the price is $1 per square foot, your monthly lease amount is $1,130. If the usable space is 1,000 square feet, the cost per square foot of the space that you are leasing is $1.13. 
1 The location of the building, the amenities, the age of the building, the foot traffic and more will greatly influence the price. 2  The average office space in the United States is around $39 per square foot according to CushWake.com. 3  An office building in Indianapolis will run around $25 per square foot. 1 There are going to be many factors that need to be factored in. 2  The location of the building, the amenities, the age of the building, the foot traffic and more will greatly influence the price. 3
Houston Industrial and Warehouse Space. The cost of Houston industrial and warehouse space per square foot is considerably lower in Houston (approx. $5/sq ft) than in many other parts of the country. Comparable areas in California and New York average $8 per square foot on an annual basis
Downtown Houston currently has about 44 million square feet of office space, and Uptown Houston approximately 24 million square feet. Square footage costs for Houston office space on an annual basis run in the $24/sq ft range. Rates vary in accordance with location, as would be expected, with square footage rates as low as $16/sq ft in the East, and about $26/sq ft in the Energy Corridor. The cost of Houston industrial and warehouse space per square foot is considerably lower in Houston (approx. $5/sq ft) than in many other parts of the country.
Price Per Square Foot. According to Remodeling Magazine, the average home-office renovation runs $187.50 per square foot. This includes new cabinetry, countertops, added storage space, new carpeting, new drywall and modernized electrical wiring. You can find square footage by multiplying the length of a room by its width. Example: a 12-foot-by-12-foot room amounts to 144 square feet. The cost for renovation using Remodeling Magazine's average figure would be 144 times $187.50, or $27,000. It helps to know what materials cost. Fixr.com lists some average material costs. For drywall, each 4-foot-by-8-foot panel costs an average of $9.80. Fiberglass insulation costs $1.80 per square foot on average. Doors can cost from $100 to $300 dollars for hardwood models
Houston Industrial and Warehouse Space. The cost of Houston industrial and warehouse space per square foot is considerably lower in Houston (approx. $5/sq ft) than in many other parts of the country. Comparable areas in California and New York average $8 per square foot on an annual basis. As would be expected in Houston’s healthy business climate, demand for available Houston office space is strong. Developers have been responding to this need with continued development. Downtown Houston currently has about 44 million square feet of office space, and Uptown Houston approximately 24 million square feet. Square footage costs for Houston office space on an annual basis run in the $24/sq ft range