Companies often offer moving packages for a slightly less expensive rate, but you can expect the cost per mover to be at least $30 an hour, not including expenses for renting the truck, paying for fuel, and adding packing services. Your moving costs will also vary depending on how much stuff you have. The amount of belongings you’re moving directly influences the size of truck you need and the number of movers you’ll need to hire.
These charges are the minimum of what you can expect to pay. There are moving companies which will ask for $50 an hour or even as much as $120. What you decide to pay depends on how experienced you wish the relocation company you hire to be and on the differences between the costs set by those companies themselves. You will be asked to pay by the hour. So, how much do movers charge per hour? You could be asked to pay a lump sum that includes a few hours of work like 3 or 4 hours for a start, which means that even if the movers work less time, you will still be charged for this amount of time of work.
1 Tipping is common for movers and runs $3-$5 per hour or 7-15% of the total move cost. 2  Insurance for a move runs about 30 cents per pound. 3  The American Moving and Storage Association explains how to plan a move and what to do before getting estimates. Local movers generally charge around $25 per hour, per mover, broken into quarter hours. Moving time varies according to the size of the unit, amount of contents and whether the movers are hired to load and unload only or also handle the packing. Typical costs:
1 A studio apartment takes two movers--at $25 each per hour--an average of 2-4 hours to load, transport and unload for a price of $100-$200. 2  The same service for a 900-square foot two-bedroom apartment with three movers will take 4-6 hours and cost $300-$450. Local movers generally charge around $25 per hour, per mover, broken into quarter hours. Moving time varies according to the size of the unit, amount of contents and whether the movers are hired to load and unload only or also handle the packing. Typical costs:
As with most things, if you live in a big city, you can expect to pay more in moving costs than if you were to move in a small town. Moving companies in big cities charge as much as $20 more per mover per hour than companies in smaller cities and towns, which can add up quite a bit. Your moving costs will also vary depending on how much stuff you have. The amount of belongings you’re moving directly influences the size of truck you need and the number of movers you’ll need to hire.
Mover Salary. (United States). Men make up the majority of Movers in the United States, and the nationwide average salary in this area lies in the neighborhood of $12.16 per hour. Compensation ranges between $9.56 per hour and $17.15. Residence is the biggest factor affecting pay for this group, followed by experience level. Medical benefits are awarded to close to a fifth, and nearly one in eight earn dental coverage
For two men and a truck, you may pay an hourly rate between $70 to over $120, again depending on your area and $45 to $65 for an extra mover-again, it varies from one company to another. More charges may apply though. How much moving companies charge per hour depends on how many movers you will need, how many hours they will work and it depends on the area where you live.
Make sure you keep this in mind when you speak with them to estimate moving costs. The average cost of movers for 2 men and a truck is between $90 and $120 per hour. If you decide to hire movers for labor only (without a moving truck), the professionals will charge about $60 to $80 per hour of labor. You can use our local moving cost calculator form on the top of the page as a cost estimator about the entire move.
The different moving companies have very different moving costs. For example in the Boston and New England area you can find movers for $75-85 per hour for two people up to more than $100 per hour. The average hourly moving rates for 2 men and a truck is about $170 per hour. In most cases the price corresponds to the quality of service. Be careful of phantom movers and always research you movers. A very important factor is the travel fee time.
The cost per hour per mover is about $25 – $30. How many hours of work will the movers do depends on the size of your home, how much stuff you’ve got in there, and if the movers are hired to pack or load/ unload. Hiring only moving labor could cost you about $50 to $70 per hour. You will be asked to pay by the hour. So, how much do movers charge per hour? You could be asked to pay a lump sum that includes a few hours of work like 3 or 4 hours for a start, which means that even if the movers work less time, you will still be charged for this amount of time of work.