Popularity of the Name Adeline. Below you will find the popularity of the baby name Adeline displayed annually, from 1880 to the present day in our name popularity chart. Hover over or click on the dots that represent a year to see how many babies were given the name for that year, for both genders, if available.
Adeline is a French form of the name Adelaide. The name Adelaide is derived from the Germanic elements adel meaning nobel and heid meaning kind or sort. The name was borne by the wife of the Holy Roman Emperor Otto the Great in the 10th century. Adeline is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 7 letters and 3 syllables and is pronounced A-de-line. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 219 in baby name popularity for girls with 1522 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name.
Instead, we recommend that you pay a greater attention to the origin and meaning of the name Adeline. Read our baby name articles for useful tips regarding baby names and naming your baby. If you are thinking of giving your baby the beautiful name Adeline, spread the love and share this with your friends. Below you will find the popularity of the baby name Adeline displayed annually, from 1880 to the present day in our name popularity chart. Hover over or click on the dots that represent a year to see how many babies were given the name for that year, for both genders, if available.
Adeline /ade-line/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced ADD-a-line, add-a-LEEN. It is of Old German origin, and the meaning of Adeline is noble. French diminutive of Adela. Used occasionally in England since the early 16th century. See also Adelaide. Opera soprano Adelina Patti (late 19th century) and a well-known song called Sweet Adeline gave the name exposure. See also Alena. 
In the case of Adeline, which is a diminutive of Adele, the name comes from the Germanic element “adal” meaning “noble”. Alternately, Madelynn comes from the French Madeleine, a name given to Mary Magdalena from the Bible (and so means “of Magdala”). 
Incoming search terms: adeline meaning from Bible, adeline namensbedeutung, bible addeline, biblical meaning of name adeline, the meaning of the name Adeline in hebrew. According to some researches that is related to meaning of ADELINE, Origin of ADELINE and Gender of ADELINE ,ADELINE is fit name.You can give to your baby with complacency.
Our research results for the name of ADELINE hasn’t been found in the Bible/Torah/Quran. Spelling Alphabet. A spelling alphabet, voice procedure alphabet telephone alphabet etc. is a set of words used to stand for the letters of an alphabet in oral communication. According to some researches that is related to meaning of ADELINE, Origin of ADELINE and Gender of ADELINE ,ADELINE is fit name.You can give to your baby with complacency.