A most basic description... Corian is a cross between laminate and granite. Solid surface countertops are manufactured by blending acrylic polymers (basically plastic) and stone-derived materials. This mix is poured into molds to make half-inch-thick sheets. And Corian colors gets playful with solids in yellow and blue too. Golds, purples, pinks, corals and coppers fall in-between. The evolution and addition of new patterns, though, is what's so enticing offering options for any bath or kitchen design theme.
1 Corian: This is what is called a solid surface counter material. 2  It is a man-made product composed of 33% binding resins and 66% minerals. 3  Granite: This is granite quarried directly from the earth, sliced into slabs, honed, and polished. First, let's define what we're talking about. These are two totally different materials: 1  Corian: This is what is called a solid surface counter material. 2  It is a man-made product composed of 33% binding resins and 66% minerals.
Corian® is the original solid surface material. Created to last a lifetime it is a unique blend of minerals and acrylic which creates a stone-hard surface that can be shaped to meet any design or dimension. Corian® is an advanced composite of natural minerals and pure acrylic polymer and is backed by DuPont™ with a 10 year Limited Installed Warranty.
DuPont Corian Solid Surface. Corian is the brand name for a solid surface material created by E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company (DuPont). It is the original material of this type, created by DuPont scientists in 1967. It is composed of acrylic polymer and alumina trihydrate (ATH), a material derived from bauxite ore. Dr. Donald Slocum, a DuPont chemist, is credited as the inventor of Corian solid surface in 1967. His name appears on the patent issued in October 1968. A “ Space Age ” material, the product has evolved since its invention and spawned many imitations.
Corian, the name of a composite material designed by DuPont, is used for numerous applications, both commercially and in homes. Since Corian is available in a vast array of colors and can be cut, carved or embossed, it's useful for everything from countertops to sink basins, furniture and textured vertical displays. Corian consists of one part acrylic resin and two parts natural minerals such as aluminum trihydrate, which comes from bauxite. Under normal temperature conditions, it does not off-gas or emit fumes, so it is considered a non-toxic substance, according to the manufacturer
Cost of Corian solid surface installation is often cheaper than granite or quartz countertops. The material itself tends to be less expensive, it's not prone to cracking, and is generally easier to fabricate with less wastage, all of which translates into lower prices for the average, basic install. And Corian colors gets playful with solids in yellow and blue too. Golds, purples, pinks, corals and coppers fall in-between. The evolution and addition of new patterns, though, is what's so enticing offering options for any bath or kitchen design theme.
Chemical Makeup. Corian consists of one part acrylic resin and two parts natural minerals such as aluminum trihydrate, which comes from bauxite. Under normal temperature conditions, it does not off-gas or emit fumes, so it is considered a non-toxic substance, according to the manufacturer