The Treaty Of Versailles Significance. The significance of the Treaty of Versailles is that it helped to bring an end to World War I and also helped in deciding the fate of Germany after the war came to an end. To under the significance of the treaty, it is important to first understand the mindset of the signatories. Also, the harshness of the Treaty brewed resentment and bitterness among the Germans, a fact that Adolf Hitler took advantage of to unite the Germans against the rest of Europe. This ultimately led to the Second World War. More Articles :
Hang the Kaiser! Popular British newspaper slogan during the negotiation of the Treaty of Versailles. On 28 June 1919, the peace treaty that ended World War I was signed by Germany and the Allies at the Palace of Versailles near Paris. Allied interests were represented by the ‘Big Three’: British Prime Minister David Lloyd George, French Premier George Clemenceau and US President Woodrow Wilson. 
Best Answer: The treaty failed because contrary to popular belief, it wasn't harsh enough. Germany should of been givin  unconditional surrender  terms. Germany was allowed a 100,000 man army and left with the means to increase it and their Air Force and Navy by the treaty. 
45d. The Big 4 of the Paris Peace Conference of 1919 were (left to right) Lloyd George of England, Orlando of Italy, Clemenceau of France, and Woodrow Wilson of the United States. Literary Digest. As the war drew to a close, Woodrow Wilson set forth his plan for a  just peace .. Why did the United States fail to ratify the Versailles Treaty and join the League of Nations? Personal enmity between Wilson and Lodge played a part. Wilson might have prudently invited a prominent Republican to accompany him to Paris to help ensure its later passage.
Why Did The Treaty Of Versailles Fail. Many historians claim that the Treaty of Versailles was a failure because it ultimately led to the rise of Adolf Hitler, Second World War and the Holocaust. However, the big question is why did the Treaty of Versailles fail. History claims that the Treaty failed as it brewed resentment amongst the Germans and also did not help in satisfying the Americans, French, and the British. Also, the harshness of the Treaty brewed resentment and bitterness among the Germans, a fact that Adolf Hitler took advantage of to unite the Germans against the rest of Europe. This ultimately led to the Second World War. More Articles :
All in all, all of the countries who were members of the Treaty of Versailles had small or large contribution to the failure of the treaty and were the countries that need to be responsible. No individual country could bring such a big unsuccessfulness, yet all of the states had contributed to it. Furthermore, the cause of failure of the treaty was because it was lack of the enforcement mechanism and lack of willingness of the allied powers.
Additionally, a huge failure of the Versailles treaty is due to it brought the rising of Adolf Hitler. The treaty placed a number of restrictions on Germany and put them in financial ruin and later on lead to depression and inflation. Furthermore, the cause of failure of the treaty was because it was lack of the enforcement mechanism and lack of willingness of the allied powers.
After the end of World War I, on 28 June 1919 at Versailles, Paris, France, the Treaty of Versailles had established and signed by the allied powers including the United States represented by Woodrow Wilson, Great Britain by David Lloyd, France by Clemenceau, Japan and Italy and central power is Germany. Furthermore, the cause of failure of the treaty was because it was lack of the enforcement mechanism and lack of willingness of the allied powers.
Treaty of Versailles. Negotiations at the Paris Peace Conference were complicated. The United Kingdom, France, and Italy fought together as the Allied Powers during the First World War. The United States, entered the war in April 1917 as an Associated Power. 