Other than these differences, DNA and RNA are the same. Their phosphates, sugars, and bases show the same bonding patterns to form nucleotides and their nucleotides bind to form nucleic acids in the same way. 1  RNA is a single-stranded nucleic acid. 2  RNA has a ribose sugar instead of a deoxyribose sugar like DNA. 3  RNA nucleotides have a uracil base instead of thymine. 
Another difference is that DNA is double-stranded, while RNA is a single strand. Three of the nitrogenous bases are the same in the two types (adenine, cytosine, and guanine), but DNA contains thymine while RNA contains uracil. There are also functional differences. DNA is the blueprint for all proteins formed by the cells. DNA is usually double stranded and most cellular RNA is single stranded. 1)In DNA the pentose sugar is deoxyribose.Whereas in RNA the pentose sugar is ribose. 2)In DNA the common organic bases are adenine,guanine,cytosine and thymine.Whereas in RNA the common organic bases are adenine,guanine,cytosine and uracil
1 DNA contains the sugar deoxyribose, while RNA contains the sugar ribose. 2  The only difference between ribose and deoxyribose is that ribose has one more-OH group than deoxyribose, which has-H attached to the second (2') carbon in the ring. DNA stands for deoxyribonucleic acid, while RNA is ribonucleic acid. Although DNA and RNA both carry genetic information, there are quite a few differences between them. This is a comparison of the differences between DNA versus RNA, including a quick summary and a detailed table of the differences.
(1) RNA is single-stranded while DNA is a double-stranded helix. (2) RNA also has uracil as its base while the DNA base is thymine. However, even with the differences in their structures, DNA and RNA have cooperating roles in the field of Cell Biology. Differences: 1) RNA is single-stranded whereas DNA is a double-stranded helix. 2) ﻿DNA also has uracil as its base while the DNA base is thymime. 3) DNA is composed of deoxyribose sugar while RNA is made up of ribose sugar.
1 DNA and RNA base pairing is slightly different, since DNA uses the bases adenine, thymine, cytosine, and guanine; RNA uses adenine, uracil, cytosine, and guanine. 2  Uracil differs from thymine in that it lacks a methyl group on its ring. DNA stands for deoxyribonucleic acid, while RNA is ribonucleic acid. Although DNA and RNA both carry genetic information, there are quite a few differences between them. This is a comparison of the differences between DNA versus RNA, including a quick summary and a detailed table of the differences.
Each nucleotide consists of a sugar, a phosphate and a nucleic acid base. The sugar in DNA is deoxyribose. The sugar in RNA is ribose, the same as deoxyribose but with one more OH (oxygen-hydrogen atom combination called a hydroxyl). This is the biggest difference between DNA and RNA. Differences: 1) RNA is single-stranded whereas DNA is a double-stranded helix. 2) ﻿DNA also has uracil as its base while the DNA base is thymime. 3) DNA is composed of deoxyribose sugar while RNA is made up of ribose sugar.
1 The only difference between ribose and deoxyribose is that ribose has one more-OH group than deoxyribose, which has-H attached to the second (2') carbon in the ring. 2  DNA is a double stranded molecule while RNA is a single stranded molecule. 3  DNA is stable under alkaline conditions while RNA is not stable. DNA stands for deoxyribonucleic acid, while RNA is ribonucleic acid. Although DNA and RNA both carry genetic information, there are quite a few differences between them. This is a comparison of the differences between DNA versus RNA, including a quick summary and a detailed table of the differences.
DNA is composed of deoxyribose sugar, RNA is composed of ribose sugar. DNA has Thymine as a pairing to Adenine, RNA has Uracil in place of Thymine as a pairing to Adenine. DNA has the chemical code to be transcribed. RNA is the transcribed product.
One of the major differences between DNA and RNA is the sugar, with 2-deoxyribose being replaced by the alternative pentose sugar ribose in RNA. The four bases found in DNA are adenine (abbreviated A), cytosine (C), guanine (G) and thymine (T). 