From an employer’s perspective, a car allowance can produce a number of attractive benefits. A car allowance is often easier to manage than a company car as the business is not responsible for the vehicle. As the vehicle is not owned by the business, it is owned by the employee by choosing a car allowance the business is saving time and money by not having to go through the process of sourcing, maintaining and administering a fleet of company cars.
Automobile and motor vehicle allowances. An allowance is any payment that employees receive from an employer for using their own vehicle in connection with or in the course of their employment without having to account for its use. This payment is in addition to their salary or wages.
Firstly, if your employer is paying you a motor vehicle allowance this is essentially treated as taxable income. Your employer can set this up as a non-deductible allowance and withhold tax (PAYG Withholding) from this just like they would your base salary or they cannot withhold tax by treating it as fully deductible. If you don’t travel that much for work and the majority of your travel is personal travel then you are going to probably have a large year-end tax bill if the allowance is incorrectly treated as fully deductible (ie. no tax is withheld).
Unfortunately sometimes we see the situation where an employee receives a very large car allowance, over $10,000 but tax hasn’t been withheld as the employer has treated the allowance as fully deductible when it isn’t necessarily so. If you don’t travel that much for work and the majority of your travel is personal travel then you are going to probably have a large year-end tax bill if the allowance is incorrectly treated as fully deductible (ie. no tax is withheld).
A motor vehicle allowance can be paid in one of the following ways: Per kilometre – A car expense payment paid per kilometre is not subject to payroll tax. Flat amount, fixed amount or fixed amount plus a rate per kilometre – the allowance is liable for payroll tax if the payment exceeds the exempt component. 
A car allowance is a set amount of money that a business adds to an employee’s incomes to cover the cost of a car or car-related costs. Depending of the employer, a car allowance may pay for the full price of vehicle or, often, a car allowance is provided to only cover the cost of fuel, service and maintenance. A business usually provides the car-related costs car allowance to an employee that uses their personal vehicle for business purposes. As the vehicle is not owned by the business, it is owned by the employee by choosing a car allowance the business is saving time and money by not having to go through the process of sourcing, maintaining and administering a fleet of company cars.
The company car system is long established in the UK. When you join a company, your new employer may offer you a company car as a perk – this means that you will drive a vehicle that the company owns. The good news is that these allowances are tax-free. There are two rates based on the fact that some driving costs are variable (such as fuel) and others are fixed (insurance, tax, etc). The payments are 45p/mile for the first 10,000 miles and 25p/mile thereafter.
A company car is a vehicle that the business owns and is then provided to their employees for use. Depending on the employer, a company car can be used for only business use or for both business and personal use. As the vehicle is not owned by the business, it is owned by the employee by choosing a car allowance the business is saving time and money by not having to go through the process of sourcing, maintaining and administering a fleet of company cars.
522. The 'true purpose' of a car allowance is to compensate you for the use of your vehicle for business purposes-it is however at times included to make the 'package' more attractive. (Structuring). 
Motor vehicle allowance paid as a flat or fixed amount (i.e. not paid on a per kilometre basis). 1  An allowance that is paid as a flat or fixed amount is not an exempt car expense benefit. 2  In the absence of records confirming the business kilometres travelled, the total payments are subject to payroll tax. 