Directions. Cut the squash in half lengthwise and scoop out the seeds. Place the cut-side down in a microwave-safe baking dish (the halves can overlap one another a bit) and add 1 cup water. Cover with plastic wrap and microwave until very tender and a knife easily pierces the skin of the squash, 15 to 18 minutes. Let stand 5 minute
Spaghetti squash and pasta are both low fat, low in salt and have 5 percent of the recommended daily intake of dietary fiber. Pasta has 158 calories, compared to only 27 in squash, but pasta also has 8 times more protein, providing at least 10 percent of the recommended daily intake based on a 2,000-calorie-a-day diet. Spaghetti squash is one of many winter squash varieties. You might expect spaghetti squash to be more nutritious than pasta, but each one has some nutritional benefits that surpass the other. For example, pasta is a better source of folate, while squash has antioxidants you won't get from pasta. No matter which one you prefer, you'll gain dietary fiber, iron and vitamin B-6
1 Slice in half, remove seeds, and pull spaghetti strands free with a fork. 2  Oven method: Preheat oven to 350 degrees. 3  Cut squash in half lengthwise; remove the seeds. 4  Place cut side down in baking pan and add a small amount of water. 5  Bake for 45 minutes. 6  After cooking, pull strand free with a fork. Directions. 1  For spaghetti squash microwave method: With sharp knife, make several deep slashes in squash (this is necessary to keep it from exploding). 2  Cook on high in 5 minute increments, turning 1/4 turn each time fro 15-25 minutes (according to size of squash). 3  When squash is done, it will be soft when squeezed.
The New Spaghetti. Spaghetti squash is undoubtedly one of the most unique foods you'll come across. This melon-shaped winter squash is named for its flesh, which separates into spaghetti-like strands after it's cooked. Our first spaghetti squash recipe: Spaghetti Squash Fritters with Sriracha Mayonnaise. Spaghetti Squash Recipes. It's more than just the vegetable alternative to pasta. Use spaghetti squash to its most delicious advantage with these favorite recipes.
Creating vegetable spaghetti from spaghetti squash is simple. First, cut the squash in half, lengthwise. Remove the seeds and place the squash side down in a glass container or dish with about ¼ to ½ inch of water. Either boil or bake the two squash halves until they’re tender. Procedure: 1  Preheat oven to 350°F. Wash the spaghetti squash, then poke with fork or metal skewer in about six places. 2  Bake for 90 minutes or until fork tender. 3  Tosh the squash with the Wicked Good Sauce and serve warm.
Pumpkin's got competition for the title of fall's best food. Spaghetti squash proves its versatility in this collection of recipes with everything from buffalo chicken spaghetti squash and healthy spaghetti squash crust pizza, to spaghetti squash shrimp scampi and lasagna stuffed spaghetti squash. Spaghetti squash shrimp scampi. Everyone knows that they can sub spaghetti squash for pasta in a classic spaghetti with marinara sauce. But you can go beyond that! Try this shrimp scampi from Pumps & Iron for a super easy, nutritious meal.
Cut it in half, lengthwise. Remove the seeds and pulp with a large spoon or an ice cream scoop, then discard. Using a fork, rake the flesh onto a large platter or bowl to create the spaghetti-like strands. Tosh the squash with the Wicked Good Sauce and serve warm. Procedure: 1  Preheat oven to 350°F. Wash the spaghetti squash, then poke with fork or metal skewer in about six places. 2  Bake for 90 minutes or until fork tender. 3 
Vitamins. Pasta doesn’t have any vitamin C or vitamin A, while spaghetti squash has 4 percent of the recommended daily intake of these antioxidants. Squash also contains lutein and zeaxanthin, which are antioxidants that protect your eyes from age-related diseases. Spaghetti squash is one of many winter squash varieties. You might expect spaghetti squash to be more nutritious than pasta, but each one has some nutritional benefits that surpass the other. For example, pasta is a better source of folate, while squash has antioxidants you won't get from pasta. No matter which one you prefer, you'll gain dietary fiber, iron and vitamin B-6