(sō′lər). adj. 1. Of, relating to, or proceeding from the sun: solar rays; solar physics. 2. Using or operated by energy derived from the sun: a solar heating system
The noun SOLAR ENERGY has 1 sense: 1. energy from the sun that is converted into thermal or electrical energy. Familiarity information: SOLAR ENERGY used as a noun is very rare. Energy from the sun that is converted into thermal or electrical energy. Classified under: Nouns denoting natural phenomena. Synonyms: solar energy; solar power.
My townhome doesn't allow solar panels. To the homeowners association (HOA), they are ugly and disrupt the cohesive (cough, cookie-cutter) look of the neighborhood. To me this was a blow. Not only do I think solar panels look cool, I work at the National Renewable Energy Lab.
The word 'solar' comes from the fact that all all solar systems contain a sun & the word 'system' comes from its planetary system. All solar systems go with this definition. …. 1 person found this useful. Starr Luteri. 26,142 Contributions. Owner of Starrdreams.com, I take a Jungian psychological approach to dreams. What is the meaning of solar eclipse?   Answer 1   The term Solar Eclipse defines an alignment of the Sun, the Moon, and the Earth, such that the Moon is located between the Sun and the Earth, causing t … he Sun to be hidden from view on the Earth.
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: solar energy (Noun). Energy in the form of electromagnetic radiation emitted from the Sun; especially that part of this energy that is converted into usable thermal or electrical energy by man. Princeton's WordNet (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: solar energy, solar power (noun). energy from the sun that is converted into thermal or electrical energy. the amount of energy falling on the earth is given by the solar constant, but very little use has been made of solar energy.
so·lar. adj. 1. Of, relating to, or proceeding from the sun: solar rays; solar physics. 2. Using or operated by energy derived from the sun: a solar heating system. 3. Determined or measured in reference to the sun: the solar year. adj. 1. Of, relating to, or proceeding from the sun: solar rays; solar physics. 2. Using or operated by energy derived from the sun: a solar heating system
Solar energy is radiant light and heat from the Sun harnessed using a range of ever-evolving technologies such as solar heating, photovoltaics, solar thermal energy, solar architecture and artificial photosynthesis. A solar chimney (or thermal chimney, in this context) is a passive solar ventilation system composed of a vertical shaft connecting the interior and exterior of a building. As the chimney warms, the air inside is heated causing an updraft that pulls air through the building.
Meaning: Energy from the sun that is converted into thermal or electrical energy. Classified under: Nouns denoting natural phenomena. Synonyms: solar energy; solar power.
Solar power is the conversion of sunlight into electricity, either directly using photovoltaics (PV), or indirectly using concentrated solar power (CSP). As the cost of solar electricity has fallen, the number of grid-connected solar PV systems has grown into the millions and utility-scale solar power stations with hundreds of megawatts are being built. Solar PV is rapidly becoming an inexpensive, low-carbon technology to harness renewable energy from the Sun.