Traci /tra-ci/ [2 sylls.] as a name for girls. Traci's name origins are Irish and Gaelic, and the meaning of Traci is warlike. Traci is an alternate spelling of Tracy (Irish, Gaelic). Compare surname Trice. Displayed below is the birth name popularity of Traci for girls. Traci entered the list in 1950-1959 and reached its highest rank of #149 in the U.S. during 1970-1979, but is not in the Top 1000 at the moment. (2014 Birth Statistics).
What does Traci mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Traci is of English origin. The meaning of Traci is place of Thracius. It is also of Greek origin, where its meaning is harvester, reaper. The male form of the given name Tracy, is a transferred use of the English surname that derived from a Norman French baronial name meaning place of Thracius. The female form of the name stems from its use as a pet form of the Greek name Theresa.
The name Tracy is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Tracy is: Brave. Latin Meaning: The name Tracy is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Tracy is: Bold. Greek Meaning: The name Tracy is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Tracy is: Harvester.
The name Traci is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Traci is: from Thracia. American Meaning: The name Traci is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Traci is: from Thracia. SoulUrge Number: 1. Expression Number: 6. People with this name have a deep inner desire to use their abilities in leadership, and to have personal independence.
It is pronounced TR EY-Siy- †. Traci's origin is Old Greek and Old French, and its use, English. Traci is an English form of the English and German Theresa. Traci is also a spelling variant of the English Tracy. Traci is uncommon as a baby girl name. At the modest height of its usage in 1970, 0.210% of baby girls were named Traci. It was #100 in rank then.
' Tracy (/ˈtreɪsi/; also spelled Tracey or Traci'or Tracie or Trasci) is originally a British personal name, that refers to the family de Tracy or de Trasci from Tracy-Bocage in Normandy, France. 
Traci ▼ has 2 more related variations via Tracy: Trace and Tracie ▼ . Traci is a very prominent first name for women (#401 out of 4276, Top 9%) but an unusual last name for all people. Displayed below is the birth name popularity of Traci for girls. Traci entered the list in 1950-1959 and reached its highest rank of #149 in the U.S. during 1970-1979, but is not in the Top 1000 at the moment. (2014 Birth Statistics).
Origin of the name Tracy: Transferred use of the surname derived from Tracy-Bocage or Tracy-sur-Mer, Norman baronial names from Calvados meaning place of Thracius.. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. 
The name Tracy is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Tracy is: From Thracia. Surname dating from before the Norman conquest. French Meaning: The name Tracy is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Tracy is: From Thracia. Surname dating from before the Norman conquest. The name Tracy is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Tracy is: Bold. Greek Meaning: The name Tracy is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Tracy is: Harvester.
Traci is a variant spelling of Tracy. The male form of the given name Tracy, is a transferred use of the English surname that derived from a Norman French baronial name meaning place of Thracius. The female form of the name stems from its use as a pet form of the Greek name Theresa.