Balanced pH Scale with Spirulina and Chlorella. Having the proper pH balance is crucial to human health. The pH scale ranges from 0, being the most acidic, to 14 being the most alkaline, with 7 being considered a neutral pH level. One of the body's strategies for countering excess acids is to pull alkaline minerals such as calcium out of your bones. This is why drinking too many sugary sodas can cause the depletion of minerals from your bones, leading to loss of bone mass density and osteoporosis.
It is rich in chlorophyll, much richer than wheat grass and alfalfa. Spirulina contains more Gamma Linolenic Acid (GLA) than any other whole-food source. Phycocyanin, which is the natural blue pigment of Spirulina, is not found in any other food on the planet. Glycolipid, which is found in Spirulina, have been found to be active against the AIDS virus (Boyd et al 1989)
Cancer thrives in an acidic environment, and doesn’t survive in a normal, more alkaline environment. Cancer cells make your body even more acidic as they produce lactic acid. So if you have cancer, your pH levels are low and your body is too acidic. Virtually everyone with cancer has low pH levels. 
Spirulina is typically grown in very alkaline waters and is also regarded as a highly alkalizing food. However, it’s important to keep in mind that not all spirulina are created equal, and the quality will vary greatly depending certain factors. 
A pH of 7 is neutral. Those levels vary throughout your body. Your blood is slightly alkaline, with a pH between 7.35 and 7.45. Your stomach is very acidic, with a pH of 3.5 or below, so it can break down food. And your urine changes, depending on what you eat -- that's how your body keeps the level in your blood steady. The alkaline diet claims to help your body maintain its blood pH level. 
Because all the acidic foods you typically eat, such as refined sugar, white flour, meat, seafood and poultry, cause a pH imbalance in your body. To reverse this harmful process consider foods that are more alkaline, including sprouts, green veggies, and spirulina and chlorella. One of the body's strategies for countering excess acids is to pull alkaline minerals such as calcium out of your bones. This is why drinking too many sugary sodas can cause the depletion of minerals from your bones, leading to loss of bone mass density and osteoporosis.
Spirulina is a blue-green algae. Spirulina is a simple, one-celled form of algae that thrives in warm, alkaline fresh-water bodies. The name spirulina is derived from the Latin word for helix or spiral; denoting the physical configuration of the organism when it forms swirling, microscopic strands. Even though spirulina is distantly related to the kelp algae, it is not a sea plant. However, the fresh-water ponds and lakes spirulina favors are notably more alkaline, in the range of 8 to 11 pH, than ordinary lakes and cannot sustain any other forms of microorganisms.
Health Benefits of Spirulina and Chlorella. The alkaline algae-related plants Chlorella & Spirulina also help to boost your metabolic functions, improve your immune system and can even increase your energy levels. The chlorophyll found in chlorella and spirulina works to eliminate waste products while cleansing your blood, liver and kidneys. One of the body's strategies for countering excess acids is to pull alkaline minerals such as calcium out of your bones. This is why drinking too many sugary sodas can cause the depletion of minerals from your bones, leading to loss of bone mass density and osteoporosis.
Spirulina. Not a sea vegetable, but a form of sea algae (which are different plants) , spirulina is a rock solid choice to alkalize your blood. While broccoli, kale, and other green vegetables are amazing for you, nothing rivals the nutrition in just a teaspoon of spirulina. All you need is a teaspoon to get the benefits, but be sure you buy a high-quality brand that does routine testing to eliminate impurities. Other helpful fruits and veggies that leave an alkaline ash in the body include: beets, cucumber, herbs, asparagus, all leafy greens, lemons, tomatoes, and broccoli.