With the latest addition, Singapore Airlines now has a total 90 aircraft, with an average fleet age of 5 years and 4 months, maintaining the Airline's position as an operator of one of the world's youngest fleet of aircraft (Anon, 2005b). Employees are also SIA’s strategic assets. 
Average age of fleet: 3.9 years. This airline has a young fleet and a sky-high percentage of on-time arrivals -- both of which tend to make passengers happy. Aeroflot is known to some as the poster airline of Russia, with a semi-monopolistic position in its home market. On-time percentage: 80.1%. Average age of fleet: 9.4 years. The Australian airline wants customers to dress a little better on its flights, recently saying it will be more strict about enforcing its smart casual dress code in its business class lounge.
At present, out of 112 planes, 87 are new with an average age of 2.5 years. Jet Airways (India) Ltd, the domestic rival airline, operates a fleet of 100 aircraft with an average age of about 6 years. Singapore Airlines ’ fleet has an average age is 6.4 years. Air India’s rival in Dubai, Emirates Airline, flies a fleet that has an average age of five years and the US’ top airlines have an average fleet age of 12 years. 
Average Age of Fleet. Newer Fleet. The average age of planes in the Singapore Airlines fleet is 6.8 years, which is about 3.6 years younger than the average for all international airlines. Compared to the entire airline industry, the Singapore Airlines fleet is 3.5 years younger than the average
The Cathay Pacific fleet of 146 wide-body aircraft is one of the youngest in the skies. As of August 2014, the average age of the fleet was 8.5 years. The airline is committed to operating a modern, fuel-efficient fleet and has 85 aircraft on firm order for delivery up to 2024.
* Please note that the average fleet age is based on our own calculations and may differ from actual figures! Only supported aircraft types that are active with this airline are included in the calculations. Please refer to the current fleet list to see each aircraft's individual age. 
The Singapore Airlines fleet features exclusively wide-body aircraft from three aircraft families: the Boeing 777, Airbus A380, and the Airbus A330. In keeping with its policy of maintaining a young fleet, which stands at an average of seven years and one month as at 1 January 2015, it renews its fleet frequently. 
The Singapore Airlines Fleet. Singapore Airlines maintains a modern fleet of 104 aircraft. As of 1 September 2015, the average age of our fleet stands at seven years and three months-making it one of the world's youngest and most fuel efficient. Previous Next. Number of aircraft: 19 in fleet and 5 on orderNumber of seats: 471 in 3-class configuration, 409 for all-Business Class upper deck configuration, 441 in 4-class configuration (with Premium Economy Class) Length: 72.7mWingspan: 79.8mCruising speed: 0.85 Mach.
1 Singapore Airlines maintains a policy of keeping a young airline fleet with an average fleet age of 6.5 years. 2  Checked in hand luggage you may carry depends on which service class you are flying. 3  Extra seats can be booked for special baggage. 1 Singapore Airlines offers in-flight service like snacks and beverages for purchase and complimentary meals. 2  Singapore Airlines operates wide body aircraft from five aircraft families. 3 