The pretty, little and fragrant yellow flower that blooms in March or April and resembles a daffodil is a jonquil. Its formal name is Narcissus jonquil, a species of the larger narcissus family. Small daffodil-shaped blossoms bloom in groups of two to six on slender stems that are approximately 16 inches tall. The fragrance of jonquil is stronger than any other narcissus species, making it a favorite of springtime gardeners.
Definition of JONQUIL. : a Mediterranean perennial bulbous herb (Narcissus jonquilla) of the amaryllis family with long linear leaves that is widely cultivated for its yellow or white fragrant short-tubed clustered flowers — compare daffodil. See jonquil defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT.
Although most people associate the jonquil flower with narcissus blossoms – as their names have become interchangeable, they are a member of the same genus, and are more or less the same in general appearance – they are still thought, in the eyes of avid gardeners and botanists alike, to be a separate species.
• JONQUIL (noun). The noun JONQUIL has 2 senses: 1. widely cultivated ornamental plant native to southern Europe but naturalized elsewhere having fragrant yellow or white clustered flowers. 2. often used colloquially for any yellow daffodil. Familiarity information: JONQUIL used as a noun is rare.
Jonquil. 1  Jonquil: This term actually refers to a specific type of daffodil known as Narcissus jonquilla, although the name is often used as a more general term for daffodils in certain parts of the country.
Common names for the lovely spring-bloomer, like daffodil, narcissus and jonquil, can be confusing. In general, daffodil refers to the large-flowered varieties, narcissus to small-flowered and early-blooming types bearing clusters of blossoms, and jonquil denotes N. jonquilla, often with fragrant, yellow flowers.
The word jonquil is from from the Spanish word jonquillo, which is a type of rush plant. The jonquil has leaves that resemble rush plants with a round shape and a groove running down the upper surface. The foliage is much darker green than that of a daffodil or narcissus.