5. Both BOOTP and DHCP address assignment protocols (they can also serve other information like subnet mask, default gateway and DNS). The difference is how they handle the process. Both protocols rely on a centrally located server to store the address assignments. 
Benefits This feature is beneficial in network segments where BOOTP and DHCP clients coexist and both a BOOTP server and a Cisco IOS DHCP server service the network segment. The feature ensures that a BOOTP client will not inadvertently accept an address from a DHCP server. 
What a lot of people don’t know is that DHCP was designed to be the successor to the older Bootstrap Protocol, more commonly referred to as BOOTP to adapt to the changing needs of the industry. BOOTP was designed to provide an IP address during the bootstrap process or while the computer is booting up. BOOTP is also capable of pointing the client to the location of an image file containing an operating system, which can be used by thin clients or diskless computers. 
The Bootstrap Protocol (BOOTP) is a computer networking protocol used in Internet Protocol networks to automatically assign an IP address to network devices from a configuration server. The BOOTP was originally defined in RFC 951. When a computer that is connected to a network is powered up and boots its operating system, the system software broadcasts BOOTP messages onto the network to request an IP address assignment. A BOOTP configuration server assigns an IP address based on the request from a pool of addresses configured by an administrator. BOOTP is implemented using the User Datagram Protocol (UDP) as transport protocol, port number 67 is used by the server to receive client requests and port number 68 is used by the client to receive server responses. BOOTP operates only on IPv4 networks
BOOTP is a client/server protocol used to dynamically assign various parameters from a BOOTP server at boot time. 
1 BOOTP clients that can request an IP address and other relevant information, such as default gateway address, name server address, and so on. 2  BOOTP clients that can request the location of the boot file information from which the client is to boot. 3  This is most common with diskless workstations. 
BOOTP clients do not rebind or renew configuration with the BOOTP server except when the system restarts, while DHCP clients do not require a system restart to rebind or renew configuration with the DHCP server. BOOTP supports a limited number of client configuration parameters called vendor extensions, while DHCP supports a larger and extensible set of client configuration parameters called options.
SecurActive Performance Vision. BOOTP (Bootstrap Protocol) is a protocol that lets a network user be automatically configured (receive an IP address) and have an operating system boot ed (initiated) without user involvement. The BOOTP server, managed by a network administrator, automatically assigns the IP address from a pool of addresses for a certain duration of time. Download this Pocket Guide to Network Management and Monitoring.
Certain HP printers equipped with an Ethernet Network Interface Card (NIC) use the Bootstrap Protocol (BOOTP) to acquire IP addresses and relative network information. BOOTP allows a diskless client to configure itself dynamically at the time of booting. This includes discovering its own IP address and boot information. This will be the address to which the BOOTP server will send the BOOTP response. The router forwards this packet as an IP unicast to the IP helper address. The BOOTP server gets the packet, finds the client's MAC address in its tables, and sends a reply with the client's IP address and boot file