Once the oven has preheated, place the chicken in the oven. If the chicken has been cut into small pieces, it may take only a few minutes to reheat properly. If you are reheating large pieces, like whole breasts, you may have to wait longer. Place it in the refrigerator for several (6-8) hours before reheating it to slowly bring the temperature up. 1  If you are going to reheat the chicken immediately, place the frozen chicken in a water-proof Ziploc bag and run cold water over it until it thaws.
Place the chicken in an oven-safe dish or pan. A cookie sheet would be ideal. Check the bottom of the dish to make sure it will stand up to extreme temperatures. 1  Spread the precooked chicken pieces in the container, doing your best to keep even spacing between the pieces. Place it in the refrigerator for several (6-8) hours before reheating it to slowly bring the temperature up. 1  If you are going to reheat the chicken immediately, place the frozen chicken in a water-proof Ziploc bag and run cold water over it until it thaws.
Step 1. Place the chicken on a microwave-safe plate or dish. If you are reheating pieces, place the largest, meatiest pieces towards the outside of the dish and smaller pieces in the center. Food on the outer edge of the dish cooks faster. Step 4. Reheat the chicken for two to three minutes, then turn the pieces over and stir the sauce. Resume cooking for an additional two to three minutes, or until the center of the thickest piece of chicken is cooked to an internal temperature of at least 165 degrees Fahrenheit.
Four Methods: Reheating in Microwave Reheating on a Stovetop Reheating Chicken in an Oven Reheating a Whole Store-Bought Rotisserie Chicken in an Oven. Chicken makes for a delicious and cost-efficient meal, but it has a tendency to dry out when you reheat it for leftovers. Place it in the refrigerator for several (6-8) hours before reheating it to slowly bring the temperature up. 1  If you are going to reheat the chicken immediately, place the frozen chicken in a water-proof Ziploc bag and run cold water over it until it thaws.
Microwaving. Place precooked chicken on a microwave-safe dish. Cover the dish with a paper towel to lock in moisture while reheating. Turn the microwave on its high setting and cook the chicken for two to three minutes until it reaches 165 degrees Fahrenheit. Oven Baking. Preheat your oven to 350 degrees Fahrenheit. Line a casserole dish or roaster with non-stick cooking spray or oil. Remove precooked chicken from the refrigerator and set it aside for 30 to 45 minutes until it reaches room temperature.
How to Reheat Ribs. Two Methods: Reheating Ribs with an Oven Reheating Ribs on a Grill. It is best to reheat ribs using either an oven or grill to accommodate both the meat and the sauce that are already on the leftover ribs. Heat times vary upon the size of the rib cut, but the process is the same. Ad. 
9) if you are reheating cooked chicken, make sure the chicken is piping hot throughout. This is especially important if you are reheating it in a microwave, which doesn't always cook evenly. 10) If you are freezing chicken, do so immediately after buying. 
1 If you are going to reheat the chicken immediately, place the frozen chicken in a water-proof Ziploc bag and run cold water over it until it thaws. 2  You can also thaw it in the microwave on the “Defrost” setting. Place it in the refrigerator for several (6-8) hours before reheating it to slowly bring the temperature up. 1 
Whether you're reheating a take-out rotisserie chicken from your supermarket or home-cooked chicken pieces, proper reheating in the oven or microwave retains the flavor and texture of the chicken. No matter what reheating method you choose, the most important thing is to reheat the chicken safely. Step 4. Reheat the chicken for two to three minutes, then turn the pieces over and stir the sauce. Resume cooking for an additional two to three minutes, or until the center of the thickest piece of chicken is cooked to an internal temperature of at least 165 degrees Fahrenheit.