A Barr body is the inactivated X chromosome that is usually found in the nuclei of female somatic cells. It can also occur in males when there is an abnormality and the male is XXY instead of the normal XY, a condition known as Klinefelter's syndrome. In this case, the male somatic cells would also contain a Barr body.
Answer by Farah ramadan. Confidence votes 43. A Barr body is the inactivated X chromosome that is usually found in the nuclei of female somatic cells. It can also occur in males when there is an abnormality and the male is XXY instead of the normal XY, a condition known as Klinefelter's syndrome. In this case, the male somatic cells would also contain a Barr body.
The inactivation is random – one X chromosome may be turned off in one cell and the other X chromosome inactivated in a neighboring cell. Once a chromosome is turned off it remains turned off in all descendent cells. With respect to their X chromosomes, female mammals are chimeras.
As the cells develop, the inactivated X chromosome is compacted into an inert bundle called a Barr body. Since males have one X and one Y, no inactivation takes place, so there is, in general, no Barr body found in the nucleus of somatic cells in male mammals.
The nuclei of human cells contain 22 autosomes and 2 sex chromosomes. In females, the sex chromosomes are the 2 X chromosomes. Males have one X chromosome and one Y chromosome. The presence of the Y chromosome is decisive for unleashing the developmental program that leads to a baby boy.
Best Answer: Barr body The condensed, single X-chromosome, appearing as a densely staining mass, that is found in the nuclei of somatic cells of female mammals. It is named after its discoverer, Murray Barr, and is derived from one of the two X-chromosomes which becomes inactivated.
Barr body-The condensed, single X-chromosome, appearing as a densely staining mass, that is found in the nuclei of somatic cells of female mammals. It is named after its discoverer, Murray Barr, and is derived from one of the two X-chromosomes which becomes inactivated.