Laws for Leaving a Child Home Alone. Only a couple of states have laws that specify the age when a child can be left home alone, including Maryland (age 8) and Illinois (age 14). However, most states have guidelines with the Department of Health and Human Services or other child protective agencies that test a child's ability to be left home alone. 11 to 12 years-May be left alone for up to 3 hours but not late at night or in circumstances requiring inappropriate responsibility. 13 to 15 years-May be left unsupervised, but not overnight. 16 to 17 years-May be left unsupervised (in some cases, for up to two consecutive overnight periods).
When to Leave Your Kids Home Alone. Eventually every parent is faced with the question of whether his or her child is old enough to begin staying home alone. When older children are placed in situations of independence that they can handle, it can help them learn responsibility. Because children mature at different rates, there is no single, pre-set age at which children are considered “old enough” to stay home by themselves for short periods. Parents must evaluate their child’s individual development and physical capabilities.
Please watch your kids. The legal age when you can leave a kid home is 12. But that is the legal requirement, parents should always think twice before leaving a small kid in the hands of a 12 year old. 12 year old is still a small kid and giving a responsibility of a an even younger kid to a 12 year can be dangerous. 
Legal age for kids home alone. Some states have laws governing what age you can legally leave them home, ranging from age 8 all the way to age 14. Check out the list here to see the specific laws in your state. Most states, however, do not have laws, leaving the decision up to the parent. Home alone at age 8 or 9. After taking into account their child's maturity, many parents think you can leave kids home alone for short periods of time starting at age eight or nine.
Leaving your child home alone... Deciding when your child is ready to stay home alone is a difficult decision for parents. There is no set age, either prescribed by law or by child development experts. It comes down to a judgment call on the part of parents. 
The National SAFEKIDS Campaign recommends that no child under the age of 12 be left at home alone. However, consider a child's age and maturity level. For example, if a child is extremely impulsive, it might be best to wait until he or she is older than 12. There appear to be very few states with specific regulations about the age of a child left at home alone.
The following is a state by state listing of specific age restrictions on home alone children. This list was obtained from information on the web as well as contacts within certain state agencies. Where no information can be found, the age restriction is listed as unknown. For example, if a child is extremely impulsive, it might be best to wait until he or she is older than 12. There appear to be very few states with specific regulations about the age of a child left at home alone.
Under Maryland law, a child must be at least eight years old to be left alone in a house or car. State law also says a child must be at least 13 years old to baby-sit another child. Generally, it is left up to the parent to decide whether a child who is at least eight is mature enough to be home alone. Any time you leave your child alone, be sure the child knows what to do in case of an emergency
A parent who leaves a child home alone before he is ready may face charges of neglect in Pennsylvania. Although Pennsylvania doesn't have a set minimum age at which it's legal for children to be left home alone, a parent is still responsible for knowing when her child may be safely left home without supervision. A young babysitter must be able to handle the responsibility of the child as well. Parents must decide for themselves whether a child can be left home alone, rather than decide strictly by age, according to the U.S. Administration for Children & Families. Parents should consider how safe their neighborhood is when making the decision.
The official website of Erie County, Pennsylvania, recommends never leaving a child under 10 home alone. Parents must decide for themselves whether a child can be left home alone, rather than decide strictly by age, according to the U.S. Administration for Children & Families. Parents should consider how safe their neighborhood is when making the decision.