Parasitic Worms. Even though they look alike, do not confuse earthworms, which are edible for humans, to roundworms, which are parasites that infect people. Earthworms live on their own as a free species and eat substances found in soil, whereas the roundworm is a parasite that lives and feeds in a person’s gut.
They don't actually eat dirt, as many people believe. You may not believe this but if you hold a worm if drops a liquid that is powerful enough to possibly kill you. In Detail. Earthworms tunnel through the ground by swallowing dirt and passing it through their bodies. In that dirt, the worm gets nutrients from decomposing vegetation, like rotting leaves and other organic material. The worms digestion of this material as it passes through helps break down the leaves and organic material further, helping soil to become fertile (nutritious for plants).
Various species of worms are used in vermiculture, the practice of feeding organic waste to earthworms to decompose food waste. These are usually Eisenia fetida (or its close relative Eisenia andrei) or the Brandling worm, commonly known as the tiger worm or red wiggler. While, as the name earthworm suggests, the main habitat of earthworms is in soil, the situation is more complicated than that. The brandling worm Eisenia fetida lives in decaying plant matter and manure.
(assorted species, including: Lumbricus terrestris and Lumbricus rubellus). The two most common species of earthworms in Northern Virginia are the Common Earthworm, or nightcrawler (Lumbricus terrestris) and the Red Earthworm (Lumbricus rubellus). These earthworms were introduced from Europe many years ago. Earthworms will eat just about anything organic (natural), especially dead leaves and other dead plant material. They will also eat manure (animal poop), some living plants (including Red Clover), and dead animals (carrion). Sometimes they accidentally eat tiny live animals because they are in the soil.
Earthworms are smooth-skinned worms, with a body made of many small segments. If you look at the body you can see lines that mark the segments. Each segment has stiff little hairs that help the worm move, sometimes the hairs are hard to see. They have no skeleton, but do have lots of muscles. Earthworms don't have much coloration, so they usually look white, gray, pink, or reddish brown. Some earthworms have red blood, and you can see it through their skin. Their skin produces slimy mucus that helps them slide through the soil. Like most animals they have a front and back end, and their mouth and tiny brain are at the front.
The worm’s first segment contains its mouth. As they burrow, they consume soil, extracting nutrients from decomposing organic matter like leaves and roots. Earthworms are vital to soil health because they transport nutrients and minerals from below to the surface via their waste, and their tunnels aerate the ground. An earthworm can eat up to one third its body weight in a day. Night crawlers also mate on the surface. They are hermaphroditic but do not self-fertilize. 
All of the terrestrial earthworms in Minnesota are non-native, invasive species from Europe and Asia (There is a native aquatic species that woodcock eat). At least fifteen non-native terrestrial species have been introduced so far. 
Most ants won't eat a worm, but may eat a dead earthworm. Some ants are predatory and will attack earthworms. These worms include carpenter ants, red fire ants and army ants. An earthworm's diet is largely decaying plant matter. If you've spent time gardening, composting or worm composting, you may have noticed earthworms and ants in the same general area. Both are common yard creatures, generally living in the same types of area. An earthworm's diet consists largely of microbes on decaying matter, which is why some earthworms are used for composting. Ants often seek out the same types of food, but the two generally do not otherwise interact
An earthworm is a tube-shaped, segmented worm found in the phylum Annelida. They are commonly found living in soil, feeding on live and dead organic matter. Its digestive system runs through the length of its body. It conducts respiration through its skin. While, as the name earthworm suggests, the main habitat of earthworms is in soil, the situation is more complicated than that. The brandling worm Eisenia fetida lives in decaying plant matter and manure.