Our PDF Coat of Arms + Extended History product is the whole package all in one. With a full color Coat of Arms along with a very detailed History, full symbolism, bibliography and settlers listed by the centuries. More about the Bullis Family Crest...
1. The Bullis family originally came to England in 1066 from Normandy with William The Conqueror (William I). The name is from the French Bois Ville, or village in the woods. (This was from Personal and Family Names, Harry Alfred Long, published in 1883, London, England by Adams and Company.
Welcome to the Bullis Family page at Surname Finder, a service of Genealogy Today. Our editors have compiled this checklist of genealogical resources, combining links to commercial databases along with user-contributed information and web sites for the Bullis surname.
Click on a place to view Bullis immigration records. The information for this chart came from the U.S. Immigration Collection at Ancestry. You can find out where the majority of the Bullis families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records.
Origins of the Bullis Surname. It is quite possible for two people with the Bullis last name to have been given that surname for entirely different reasons. Discovering the country from which your Bullis ancestors originated can often yield additional clues for the meaning of the surname. Keep in mind that it was not unusual for a last name to be altered as an ancestor entered a new country.
The surname of BULLIS was a Belgium surname, meaning 'the son of Bulla'. It arrived early in England, and found its home in Yorkshire. For long periods of history, the northern part of Belgium was administratively united with the Netherlands.
3. BULLIS: Cattle Tenders. (This was published in English Ancestral Names-The Evolution of the Surname From Medieval Occupations, J.R. Dulan. 4. BULLIS: Originally spelled Bullace, referring to a type of wild plum, growing along hedgerows in England.