In many different ways, symbolism has a very deep and underlying insight to the story of “A Rose for Emily”. Miss Emily is compared to her house in many different ways. Descriptions of the decaying house symbolize Miss Emily’s physical and emotional decay, and as well as her mental problems. The representation between herself and her house is shown through constant neglect and unappreciation.
A Rose for Emily, is the remarkable story of Emily Grierson, whose death and funeral drew the attention of the town. The bizarre outcome is further emphasized throughout by the symbolism of the decaying house, which parallels Miss Emily's physical deterioration and demonstrates her ultimate mental disintegration.
There are several different symbolic subjects in this story such as the house, Miss Emily as a “monument,” Homer and the “Yankee” views, and Miss Emily’s old Negro servant who represents death in the story.
Notice how the first section of the story involves what Benjamin Franklin said were the only two certain things in the world: death and taxes. Franklin was talking about the fact that even the U.S....
Miss Emily's house, like Miss Emily, is a symbol both Emily and the decaying South. Her house, is described as once being a grand house ‘‘set on what had once been our most select street.’’ However, by the end of the story her house and the neighborhood it is in have deteriorated.
Symbolism in “A Rose for Emily” In the short story, “A Rose for Emily” by William Faulkner, symbolism is used very frequently through out the story.
1 Comment on the narrator's description of the house in the first and the fifth paragraphs. 2  Describe and discuss the symbolism of Miss Emily's house. 3  What do you think was the relationship between the daughter and the father.
After that, Miss Emily did not leave the house for six months. For a period of six or seven years when she was about forty years old, Miss Emily gave china-painting lessons to the daughters and granddaughters of Colonel Sartoris' contemporaries.. Then the students stopped coming.
Miss Emily's house is an important symbol in this story. (In general, old family homes are often significant symbols in Gothic literature.) For most of the story, we, like the townspeople, only see...