A typical power inverter device or circuit requires a relatively stable DC power source capable of supplying enough current for the intended power demands of the system. The input voltage depends on the design and purpose of the inverter. The AC output voltage of a power inverter device is often the same as the standard power line voltage, such as household 120 VAC or 240 VAC. This allows the inverter to power numerous types of equipment designed to operate off the standard line power.
From DC to AC and Back Again. Ironically, if you use an AC inverter to power a computer or television, the power supply in the device is converting the 120-volt alternating current into a much lower voltage direct current. Most cars and motor homes derive their power from a 12-volt battery. In some cases, a heavy-duty 24-volt battery might be used. It's important to know your vehicle's voltage because the voltage rating of the inverter you select should match the voltage of the battery.
Connected to a campground power pedistal or your RV generator is running the converter it changes 120 Volt AC power to 12 Volt DC and supplies power to the RV's 12v circuits and charges the RV batteries. An inverter does the inverse. Inverters take 12VDC from the batteries and change it to 120VAC. The much larger RV battery system is far superior and only requires adding an inverter. There are smaller inverters... 100 to 350 watts... available that do not need to be installed. You plug them in to a 12 volt power port (cigarette lighter).
A power inverter changes DC power from a battery into conventional AC power that you can use to operate all kinds of devices ... electric lights, kitchen appliances, microwaves, power tools, TVs, radios, computers, to name just a few. If you do not have a deep cycle battery, we recommend that you run the engine of your vehicle when operating the power inverter. When operating the inverter with a deep cycle battery, start the engine every 30 to 60 minutes and let it run for 10 minutes to recharge the battery.
A power inverter, or inverter, is an electronic device or circuitry that changes direct current (DC) to alternating current (AC). The input voltage, output voltage and frequency, and overall power handling depend on the design of the specific device or circuitry. The AC output voltage of a power inverter device is often the same as the standard power line voltage, such as household 120 VAC or 240 VAC. This allows the inverter to power numerous types of equipment designed to operate off the standard line power.
You need a power inverter. ­Power inverters convert direct current (DC), the power that comes from a car battery, into alternating current (AC), the kind of power supplied to your home and the power larger electronics need to function. You might listen to your MP3 player, check for directions on your global positioning system (GPS) or play a portable video game. These types of electronic devices can be recharged or powered by plugging them into the cigarette lighter (or power port) in your vehicle.
A power inverter changes direct current (DC) power from a battery, usually 12V or 24V, into conventional mains alternating current (AC) power at 230V. This means that you can use one to operate all kinds of devices ... electric lights, kitchen appliances, power tools, TVs, radios, computers, to name just a few. Just connect the inverter to a battery, and plug your AC devices into the inverter and you've got portable power whenever and wherever you need it. The inverter draws its power from a 12V or 24V battery (preferably deep-cycle), or several batteries wired in parallel.
A very simple way to use an inverter for emergency power (such as during a power outage), is to use a car battery (with the vehicle running), and an extension cord running into the house, where you can then plug in electrical appliances. If you do not have a deep cycle battery, we recommend that you run the engine of your vehicle when operating the power inverter. When operating the inverter with a deep cycle battery, start the engine every 30 to 60 minutes and let it run for 10 minutes to recharge the battery.
You just connect the inverter to a battery, and plug your AC devices into the inverter ... and you've got portable power ... whenever and wherever you need it. The inverter draws its power from a 12 Volt battery (preferably deep-cycle), or several batteries wired in parallel. The battery will need to be recharged as the power is drawn out of it by the inverter. The battery can be recharged by running the automobile motor, or a gas generator, solar panels, or wind. If you do not have a deep cycle battery, we recommend that you run the engine of your vehicle when operating the power inverter. When operating the inverter with a deep cycle battery, start the engine every 30 to 60 minutes and let it run for 10 minutes to recharge the battery.
The inverter does not produce any power; the power is provided by the DC source. A power inverter can be entirely electronic or may be a combination of mechanical effects (such as a rotary apparatus) and electronic circuitry. Static inverters do not use moving parts in the conversion process. The AC output voltage of a power inverter device is often the same as the standard power line voltage, such as household 120 VAC or 240 VAC. This allows the inverter to power numerous types of equipment designed to operate off the standard line power.