Spring 2012 Commencement-Virginia Tech, Graduate School, National Capital Region. VT in the National Capital Region. Virginia Tech in the National Capital Region (NCR) is dedicated to furthering the university's three missions – education, research, and outreach. 
A total of 20 districts in three neighbouring states of Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan along with whole of the National Capital Territory of Delhi constitute the National Capital Region (NCR) of India as defined in National Capital Region Planning Board (NCRPB) Act, 1985. About 46% of the National Capital Region (NCR)-home to 40-50 lakh (i.e., 4 to 5 million) people-is not connected to sewage networks. Sewage from these areas flows into stormwater drains that empty directly into the Yamuna.
The National Capital Region (NCR) in India is the designation for the conurbation or metropolitan area which encompasses the entire National Capital Territory of Delhi, which includes New Delhi, as well as urban areas surrounding it in neighboring states of Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan. About 46% of the National Capital Region (NCR)-home to 40-50 lakh (i.e., 4 to 5 million) people-is not connected to sewage networks. Sewage from these areas flows into stormwater drains that empty directly into the Yamuna.
The National Capital Region (NCR) is not an operational entity because emergency response is a local function. 
Julia E. Hudson, Regional Administrator. Welcome to the National Capital Region (NCR) of the U.S. General Services Administration, where our team is dedicated to providing superior support to the federal government in the Washington, D.C. metropolitan area. 
NCR. National Capital Region. Also known as the National Capital Region, Metro Manila consists of the cities of Caloocan, Las Pinas, Piñas, Makati, Malabon, Mandaluyong, Manila, Marikina, Muntinlupa, Navotas, Paranaque, Parañaque, Pasay, Pasig Quezon, San, Juan, taguig Valenzuela. and pateros From its historic neighborhoods to the outrageous housing developments, Metro Manila is a maze of vibrant energy with bits of calm in between. Weave your way through this mighty megalopolis, made up of 16 cities, one town and eleven million people. NCR. National Capital Region. Metro Manila.
Before July 2013, National Capital Region (NCR) had a total area of 34,144 km 2 spanning over 15 districts in the states of Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, and Rajasthan, together with the National Capital Territory of Delhi, with the Nation Capital as its core. About 46% of the National Capital Region (NCR)-home to 40-50 lakh (i.e., 4 to 5 million) people-is not connected to sewage networks. Sewage from these areas flows into stormwater drains that empty directly into the Yamuna.
National Capital Region (NCR) - the metropolitan area which encompasses the entire National Capital Territory of Delhi as well as the neighbouring satellite towns of Faridabad and Gurgaon in Haryana, and Noida, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh. Richard · 9 years ago. Thumbs up. Report Abuse. 
The NCR is India's largest and world's second largest urban agglomeration with a population of over 54 million inhabitants. The concept of the National Capital Region was first mentioned in 1962. According to the National Capital Region Planning Board Act, 1985, total 23 districts in the adjoining states of Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Rajasthan as well as the National Capital Territory of Delhi comprise the National Capital Region (NCR) of India.
NCR is India 's largest and one of the world's largest agglomeration with a population of over 47,000,000 at the 2011 Census. All the areas of NCR together generated GDP of $128.9 billion in 2011-12, which was 7.5 percent of the Indian GDP. About 46% of the National Capital Region (NCR)-home to 40-50 lakh (i.e., 4 to 5 million) people-is not connected to sewage networks. Sewage from these areas flows into stormwater drains that empty directly into the Yamuna.