Carbon Dioxide is a gas, a molecule, which has one Carbon atom and two Oxygen atoms. Carbon dioxide is an emission from your body. It generally it not harmful as it is all around you, unless you breathe in a very high amount of it. Then it might disturb the tr … ansportation of oxygen in your body. However, beware of carbon monoxide.
During normal combustion, each atom of carbon in the burning fuel joins with two atoms of oxygen-forming a harmless gas called carbon dioxide. When there is a lack of oxygen to ensure complete combustion of the fuel, each atom of carbon links up with only one atom of oxygen-forming carbon monoxide gas. Carbon monoxide is a significantly toxic gas and has no odor or color. It is the most common type of fatal poisoning in many countries.
Carbon monoxide consists of one carbon atom and one oxygen atom, connected by a triple bond that consists of two covalent bonds as well as one dative covalent bond. It is the simplest oxocarbon and is isoelectronic with the cyanide anion, the nitrosonium cation and molecular nitrogen. The bond length between the carbon atom and the oxygen atom is 112.8 pm. This bond length is consistent with a triple bond, as in molecular nitrogen (N 2), which has a similar bond length and nearly the same molecular mass. Carbon–oxygen double bonds are significantly longer, 120.8 pm in formaldehyde, for example.
Carbon dioxide means carbon dioxide for two major reasons. One, is that carbon dioxide is made up of the element carbon, which is how it get the carbon of it's name, and is al … so made up of the element oxygen, which is how it got the oxide part of it's anem. Carbon dioxide is an emission from your body. It generally it not harmful as it is all around you, unless you breathe in a very high amount of it. Then it might disturb the tr … ansportation of oxygen in your body. However, beware of carbon monoxide.
Chemical reference number (CAS): 56-23-5. Carbon tetrachloride (Carbon tet) is a non-flammable colorless liquid with a heavy, sweet odor. Before 1970, carbon tet was widely used as a cleaning fluid in home and industry. Until 1986, the chemical was used as a grain fumigant. Carbon tet is still used to manufacture propellants and other industrial chemicals
Carbon Dioxide. Also known as: Carbonic acid gas; Dry Ice; CO2; Diesel Exhaust Component. Chemical reference number (CAS): 124-38-9. At room temperature, carbon dioxide (CO2) is a colorless, odorless, faintly acidic-tasting, non-flammable gas. CO2 is the fourth most abundant gas in the earth's atmosphere. Depending on the temperature and pressure, carbon dioxide can also exist as a liquid or a solid. In its solid form, carbon dioxide is called dry ice because it slowly changes from a cold solid directly into a gas.
Best Answer: Carbon??? Pure carbon? Carbon is flammable and completely oxidizes to form CO2. Coal is mostly carbon and obviously we burn coal. A marshmallow is not pure carbon, it's mostly sucrose (sugar), C12H22O11. Obviously, sugar contains carbon. There are literally thousands upon thousands of organic compounds which contain carbon, and almost all of them are flammable.
Yes it does, as the carbon chain length INCREASES, its flammability DECREASES. This is because as the carbon chain length increases, the state changes from gas to liquid to so … lid. We can also use the fractional distillation of crude oil as an example. Bitumen has a carbon chain length of approximately 35 or more. Bitumen is used to make roads, it can not be ignited easily otherwise all our roads will be on fire. Next, Gasoline has a carbon chain length of approximately 5 to 12. Gasoline one of the most commonly known flammable liquid. It ignites at around 232 degrees centigrade or 495 degree fahrenheit
Di means two, and since carbon dioxide is made up of one carbon atom and two oxygen atmos, to show the two oxygen atoms, di is put before the oxide to make carbon dioxide. The chemical formula for this is CO2, with the 2 being in subscript. 9 people found this useful. Carbon dioxide is an emission from your body. It generally it not harmful as it is all around you, unless you breathe in a very high amount of it. Then it might disturb the tr … ansportation of oxygen in your body. However, beware of carbon monoxide.