Hepatitis A is a serious liver disease caused by the hepatitis A virus (HAV). HAV is found in the stool of people with hepatitis A. It is usually spread by close personal contact and sometimes by eating food or drinking water containing HAV.
It’s not just the young developing livers of children that suffer from the toxic Hep B. The Journal Hepatogastroenterology reported in 2002 that the Hepatitis B vaccine was statistically associated with increased risk for hepatitis, gastrointestinal disease, and liver function test abnormalities in adult females.
1 Hepatitis A is a viral liver disease that can cause mild to severe illness. 2  The hepatitis A virus is transmitted through ingestion of contaminated food and water or through direct contact with an infectious person.
The Hepatitis A vaccine is a shot of inactive Hepatitis A virus that stimulates the body's natural immune system. After the vaccine is given, the body makes antibodies that protect a person against the virus. An antibody is a substance found in the blood that is produced in response to a virus invading the body.
There is no vaccine for HCV. Hepatitis D virus (HDV) infections occur only in those who are infected with HBV. The dual infection of HDV and HBV can result in a more serious disease and worse outcome. Hepatitis B vaccines provide protection from HDV infection.
Hepatitis A vaccine will only protect someone from Hepatitis A. A separate vaccine is available for Hepatitis B. There is also a combination vaccine that protects a person from Hepatitis A and Hepatitis B. No vaccine is available for Hepatitis C at this time.
Hepatitis A is a highly contagious liver infection caused by the hepatitis A virus. The virus is one of several types of hepatitis viruses that cause inflammation and affect your liver's ability to function.
WHENFor children, the first dose should be given at 12 through 23 months of age. Children who are not vaccinated by 2 years of age can be vaccinated at later visits. For others at risk, the hepatitis A vaccine series may be started whenever a person wishes to be protected or is at risk of infection. For travelers, it is best to start the vaccine series at least one month before traveling.
Hepatitis A is a serious liver disease caused by the. hepatitis A virus (HAV). HAV is found in the stool of. people with hepatitis A. It is usually spread by close personal contact and. sometimes by eating food or drinking water containing. HAV. A person who has hepatitis A can easily pass the.