Definition: Pastitsio is a creamy, cheesy baked pasta dish that is sometimes called the Greek lasagne; however, there are differences. While both are baked pasta dishes, pastitsio is traditionally made with large tubular pasta, a meat and tomato sauce, and topped with a thick bechamel béchamel. Sauce: pronunciation-PAHS-teet-see. yoh
Then casseroles are your best friend. Pastitsio is a greek casserole made of ground lamb, beef and pasta. We now interrupt our regular scheduled summer recipes for Pastitsio. I feel like I have suddenly taken a left turn with this recipe. Usually in the summer, I post lots of light dishes. So now you get Pastitsio. 
Pastitsio. Pastitsio, sometimes spelled pastichio, is a Greek and Mediterranean baked pasta dish including ground beef and bechamel béchamel sauce in its-best known. Form pastitsio is a version of The italian dish pasticcio di. pasta Pastitsio, sometimes spelled pastichio, is a Greek and Mediterranean baked pasta dish including ground beef and bechamel béchamel sauce in its-best known. form
| 7 Comments. I’m not sure what prompted me to run a recipe for pastitsio, the Greek baked pasta dish, in our USA Weekend column a couple of months ago. Maybe I was looking for an alternative to lasagna. Maybe I was drawn to the dish’s warm spices, but since then I’ve gotten scores of e-mails from readers looking for the recipe. 
When teaching others to make this dish, I have often joked that the word pastitsio (pa-STEE-tsee-oh) translates to messy kitchen in Greek. I was only kidding, but there is a hint of truth to that statement. The Greek word pastitsio derives from the Italian pasticcio, which loosely translates to a mess or a hodgepodge. 
Definition of PASTITSIO. : a Greek baked dish made of ground meat layered with pasta and usually topped with white sauce and cheese. pas·ti·tsio also pastitso \-ˈtēt-(ˌ)sō\. ADVERTISEMENT. 
Pastitsio is a layered Greek casserole of macaroni and seasoned ground lamb, topped with a thick cream sauce. This version substitutes beef in place of the lamb to suit American tastes.. Saved Save I Made it Rate it Share Print. Saved. Save. 
1 Transfer 1/2 cup of this sauce to the meat sauce. 2  To assemble pastitsio: Grease a 9x13 inch baking dish. 3  Spoon half of the prepared ziti evenly in the bottom and top with meat sauce. 4  Top that with remaining ziti. 1 To make cream sauce: Melt butter in saucepan, stir in flour and cook gently for 2 minutes. 2  Pour in milk all at once and bring to a boil, stirring constantly. 3  Boil gently for 1 minute. 4  Add nutmeg, salt, pepper and cool slightly before stirring in beaten egg. 5 
Pastitsio. Pastitsio is a traditional Greek dish made with ground beef, pasta, and a thick bechamel (cream) sauce. Here is our version which omits the sweet spices such as nutmeg and cinnamon that traditionally go in this dish. 2Bleu. by. Pastitsio. Find recipes for Pastitsio and other Course recipes. Greek lasagna, also known as pastitsio, is made up of a meat filling, a creamy white sauce, and pasta layered and baked in a pan until golden brown.