When you brush with Crest Pro-Health Toothpaste, stannous fluoride, a component of the Polyfluorite System™, is released in the mouth. Therapeutic stannous fluoride is a powerful anti-microbial agent that kills harmful bacteria that cause plaque and gingivitis. No. Crest Pro-Health Toothpaste protects your teeth against gingivitis, cavities, tooth sensitivity, tartar buildup, stains and it freshens breath.
The Crest brand has also been associated with about twenty brands of dental care products, including toothpaste, toothbrushes, mouthwash, dental floss, as well as a tooth-whitening product called Crest Whitestrips. The active ingredient of Crest was changed in 1981 to sodium monofluorophosphate, or Fluoristat. Today Crest toothpastes use sodium fluoride, or Dentifrice with Fluoristat; Crest Pro-Health, recently introduced to the market, uses stannous fluoride again and an abrasive whitener together called Polyfluorite.
2. Procter & Gamble: Crest Toothpaste For decades Crest toothpaste was the leading brand in the market. Not many brands other than Coca-Cola or McDonald’s have been on the top for so long. But a few years ago Crest lost its leadership position to Colgate. The Toothpaste Market: Crest Battles Colgate Crest is struggling to regain the popularity that made it the best-selling toothpaste in North America for more than three decades. The two leading brands, Colgate and Crest, control 60 percent of
Crest Complete Whitening Plus Scope Toothpaste. Get the stain removing power of Crest and a breath freshening blast of Scope — all in one tube. Get the stain removing power of Crest and a breath freshening blast of Scope — all in one tube. (11). Crest Complete Multi-Benefit Extra White + Scope Dual-Blast Toothpaste helps fight two causes of bad breath by blasting away bad breath germs* and eliminating strong aftertastes like onions and garlic. (3). $3.75-$6.99 MSRP.
Toothpaste from a tube being applied to a toothbrush. Toothpaste is a paste or gel dentifrice used with a toothbrush as an accessory to clean and maintain the aesthetics and health of teeth. Whitening toothpaste cannot alter the natural color of teeth or reverse discoloration by penetrating surface stains or decay. To remove surface stains, whitening toothpaste may include abrasives to gently polish the teeth, and/or additives such as sodium tripolyphosphate to break down or dissolve stains.
Examples of toothpastes include Crest Pro Health, Crest 3D White, Crest Tartar Protection, Crest Whitening and Scope flavored toothpaste. From 2004 to 2010, Crest sold dental floss under the Crest Glide brand, which is now called Oral-B Glide. The original Crest logo was designed by Donald Deskey. The active ingredient of Crest was changed in 1981 to sodium monofluorophosphate, or Fluoristat. Today Crest toothpastes use sodium fluoride, or Dentifrice with Fluoristat; Crest Pro-Health, recently introduced to the market, uses stannous fluoride again and an abrasive whitener together called Polyfluorite.
Crest Toothpaste is a brand of toothpaste created in 1955 by the Procter and Gamble Company. As the first fluoride toothpaste clinically proven to fight cavities, Crest was commended as an important scientific breakthrough. Competitors for Crest include Colgate, Aquafresh, and several others, although the largest competition is Colgate, a product of the Colgate-Palmolive Company. Colgate has long been the Crest's leading competitor in the global market.
Crest Pro-Health Toothpaste is the first and only toothpaste to provide this combination of protection against cavities, gingivitis, plaque, sensitive teeth, tartar buildup, stains and it freshens breath. Crest Pro-Health Toothpaste provides a gingivitis benefit not found in other sensitivity toothpastes. No. Crest Pro-Health Toothpaste protects your teeth against gingivitis, cavities, tooth sensitivity