Average. Average annual income for a Domino's pizza delivery driver is in the range of $18,000 to $19,000. This corresponds to an hourly wage of around $9 if the driver is working full time. The annual income of a Domino's driver can range widely between $13,000 and $30,000. This fluctuation can be because of different wages paid in different geographic areas, levels of seniority and experience, and different benefits offered by different franchises.
The hourly pay rate for a pizza or other takeout food delivery driver is usually less than minimum wage because tips can be included in compensation. A 2009 PT Money website interview with a pizza delivery driver noted the driver was paid $6 hourly, plus $1.50 per delivery, plus tips. Number of Deliveries. The number of pizza or other food orders a driver can deliver in an hour varies. Most pizzerias and other restaurants limit drivers to a maximum delivery radius. The smaller the radius, the more deliveries drivers can make in an hour.
I worked at Pizza Hut last fall. I made $6 an hour. They also paid me $1 per delivery for mileage. I averaged around $8 - $9 an hour after paying for gas. The Pizza Hut that I worked at was very poorly managed. The managers would only let drivers take one order at a time. I work at the busiest papa johns in my city. We get paid less than minimum wage but if you are a good delivery driver and can get 20-25 deliveries in a shift then the bad pay won't affect you as much. I work between 30-40 hours a week and make between 600-850 every week TAKE HOME! jh · 10 months ago.
Tips. A pizza delivery driver is tipped by most customers. The average tip is approximately $2 per delivery, but a tip can be as high as $5 per delivery or nothing at all. A typical pizza delivery driver will make approximately three deliveries per hour, which will earn him about $6 per hour in tips. Base Salary. Pizza delivery drivers earn the state minimum wage. This typically ranges from $7.25 to $8 per hour, depending on the state and local laws.
The lowest-paid 10 percent made $8.01 an hour, while the highest-paid 10 percent earned $21.98 or more. However, because pizza delivery drivers earn tips and may be classified as wait staff by a restaurant, their actual hourly wages may be much lower than that. Number of Deliveries. The number of pizza or other food orders a driver can deliver in an hour varies. Most pizzerias and other restaurants limit drivers to a maximum delivery radius. The smaller the radius, the more deliveries drivers can make in an hour.
Salary Overview. The Bureau of Labor Statistics groups pizza delivery drivers under the broader job category of Driver/Sales Workers.. These workers earned a median wage of $10.95 an hour or $22,770 a year as of May 2011, according to the BLS. Number of Deliveries. The number of pizza or other food orders a driver can deliver in an hour varies. Most pizzerias and other restaurants limit drivers to a maximum delivery radius. The smaller the radius, the more deliveries drivers can make in an hour.
For Pizza Delivery Drivers, hourly average wages total $7.49 per hour. The bottom of the pay range sits near $6.00 per hour, and the top verges on $9.25. The particular firm is the biggest factor affecting pay for this group, followed by years of experience. 