Hypernyms (Sagittarius is a kind of...): individual; mortal; person; somebody; someone; soul (a human being). Domain category: astrology; star divination (a pseudoscience claiming divination by the positions of the planets and sun and moon). 3. the ninth sign of the zodiac; the sun is in this sign from about November 22 to December 21. 4. type genus of the Sagittariidae. Familiarity information: SAGITTARIUS used as a noun is uncommon.
Sagittarius (♐) (Greek: τοξότης Toxotes, Latin: Sagittarius) is the ninth astrological sign, which is associated with the constellation Sagittarius. Under the tropical zodiac, sun transits this sign between November 23 and December 21. 
In the Sagittarius' character there are combined such qualities as reliance, affability and courtesy. People who were born under this sign come along with the people easily, but it is much more difficult for them to become close friends.They do it very very cautiously. The Sagittarius usually loves sports, nature, traveling, to learn and to win. The Sagittarius likes all doing in the company surrounded by close people. His mind and body are both requiring constant intellectual, emotional and physical loading.
Sagittarius make excellent friends because of their encouraging, positive nature and their kind heart that will do anything to make sure the friend is happy. They do not expect favors in return, their kindness is selfless. They do not interfere with other people's plans and they are never possessive or jealous. Sagittarius have a vibrant, expansive personality that is free like a bird, Sagittarius cannot be contained. They are full of curiosity and they always look forward to the future, never dwelling on the past.
Sagittarius seem to be guided by luck, good things happen to Sagittarius and this is usually because of their optimistic outlook and positive disposition which attracts good fortune. Despite hardships, Sagittarius is always optimistic that good things will happen tomorrow and the future carries good luck. Sagittarius have a vibrant, expansive personality that is free like a bird, Sagittarius cannot be contained. They are full of curiosity and they always look forward to the future, never dwelling on the past.
Sagittarius. Sagittarius is a constellation of the zodiac, the one containing the galactic center. Its name is Latin for the archer, and its symbol is, a stylized arrow. Sagittarius is commonly represented as a centaur drawing a bow. It lies between Ophiuchus to the west and Capricornus to the east.
what does sagittarius mean am a sagittarius and i dont have any ideas about sagittarius and does sagittarius have any signs. Follow. As a Sagittarius, you are friendly and generous to everybody. This is a great trait but it can leave you short on funds. You have a restless personality and like to always be on the move. You enjoy activities that give you a physical outlet and probably enjoy participating and watching a variety of sports.
Sagittarius, the ninth sign of the zodiac, is the home of the wanderers of the zodiac. It's not a mindless ramble for these folks, either. Sagittarians are truth-seekers, and the best way for them to do this is to hit the road, talk to others and get some answers. At the end of the day, what Sagittarius wants most is to know the meaning of life, and to accomplish this while feeling free and easy. It's the Archer that represents Sagittarians, although in this case it's a Centaur (half man, half beast) that is flinging the arrows.
Sagittarius (the Centaurian Archer) is the 9th sign of the Zodiac, and the 3rd, and last of the Fire Signs. This fiery nature is different from that of Aries and Leo, in that its directness and honesty isn't used to achieve a goal or prove themselves, it is unconscious and, more often than not, unintentional. 
The noun SAGITTARIUS has 4 senses: 1. (astrology) a person who is born while the sun is in Sagittarius. 2. a large zodiacal constellation in the southern hemisphere; between Scorpius and Capricornus. 3. the ninth sign of the zodiac; the sun is in this sign from about November 22 to December 21. 4. type genus of the Sagittariidae. Familiarity information: SAGITTARIUS used as a noun is uncommon.