The brain is an organ located in the skull. It weighs about 3 pounds. The senses (taste, smell, sight, hearing, touch), emotions, thoughts, and movement are controlled by the brain. The right side of the brain controls the left side of the body and the left side of the brain controls the right side of the body. Meninges are membranes that cover and protect the brain and spinal cord. There are three layers of meninges: Dura mater (closest to the bone), Arachnoid loosely around the brain, Pia mater is closely attached to the brain and spinal cord surface.
These bones protect the spinal cord. Like the brain, the spinal cord is covered by the meninges and cushioned by cerebrospinal fluid. Spinal nerves connect the brain with the nerves in most parts of the body. Other nerves go directly from the brain to the eyes, ears, and other parts of the head. This part of the brain also controls speech and emotions as well as reading, thinking, and learning. The cerebellum, under the cerebrum at the back of the brain, controls balance and complex actions like walking and talking. The brain stem connects the brain with
The brain is composed of 3 main structural divisions: the cerebrum, the brainstem, and the cerebellum (see the images below). At the base of the brain is the brainstem, which extends from the upper cervical spinal cord to the diencephalon of the cerebrum. Gross Anatomy: Meninges. The meninges consist of 3 tissue layers that cover the brain and spinal cord: the pia, arachnoid, and the dura mater (see the image below). The pia along with the arachnoid are referred to as the leptomeninges, whereas the dura is referred to as the pachymeninx.
The spinal cord is the most important structure between the body and the brain. The spinal cord extends from the foramen magnum where it is continuous with the medulla to the level of the first or second lumbar vertebrae. It is a vital link between the brain and the body, and from the body to the brain. The spinal cord is 40 to 50 cm long and 1 cm to 1.5 cm in diameter. Two consecutive rows of nerve roots emerge on each of its sides. These nerve roots join distally to form 31 pairs of spinal nerves.
Overview. The nervous system is organized into two parts: the central nervous system, which consists of the brain and the spinal cord, and the peripheral nervous system, which connects the central nervous system to the rest of the body. An image depicting the central nervous system can be seen below. It is made up of the cerebellum, the pons, and the medulla. The medulla is a narrow structure nearest the spinal cord; it is the point at which many of the nerves from the left part of the body cross to the right side of the brain and vice versa.
Anatomy and physiology of the brain and spinal cord. The brain is a spongy organ made up of nerve and supportive tissues. It is located in the head and is protected by a bony covering called the skull. The base, or lower part, of the brain is connected to the spinal cord. Together, the brain and spinal cord are known as the central nervous system (CNS). The cerebrum is the largest part of the brain. It is divided into 2 parts (halves) called the left and right cerebral hemispheres. The 2 hemispheres are connected by a bridge of nerve fibres called the corpus callosum.
Overview. The central nervous system consists of the brain and the spinal cord. The peripheral nervous system consists of the extensions of neural structures beyond the central nervous system and includes somatic and autonomic divisions. Gross Anatomy: Meninges. The meninges consist of 3 tissue layers that cover the brain and spinal cord: the pia, arachnoid, and the dura mater (see the image below). The pia along with the arachnoid are referred to as the leptomeninges, whereas the dura is referred to as the pachymeninx.
Click here for an interactive tour of the brain and its functions. The Spinal Cord starts at the brain stem and goes to the tail bone. It is about as wide as your little finger and extends the length of your back. Messages are carried from the spinal cord to and from the brain to the rest of the body. Meninges are membranes that cover and protect the brain and spinal cord. There are three layers of meninges: Dura mater (closest to the bone), Arachnoid loosely around the brain, Pia mater is closely attached to the brain and spinal cord surface.
Together, the brain and spinal cord form the central nervous system. This complex system is part of everything we do. It controls the things we choose to do -- like walk and talk -- and the things our body does automatically -- like breathe and digest food. This part of the brain also controls speech and emotions as well as reading, thinking, and learning. The cerebellum, under the cerebrum at the back of the brain, controls balance and complex actions like walking and talking. The brain stem connects the brain with the spinal cord.
The spinal cord is an extension of the central nervous system (CNS), which consists of the brain and spinal cord. It begins at the bottom of the brain stem (at the area called the medulla oblongata), and it ends in the lower back as it tapers to form a cone called the conus medullaris. By way of the peripheral nervous system (PNS), nerve impulses travel to and from the brain through the spinal cord to a specific location in the body. The PNS is a complex system of nerves that branch off from the spinal nerve roots.