Melt the butter in a medium-sized saucepan over medium heat. Add the garlic and red pepper flakes and cook until fragrant. Add the flour and cook until light blonde in color. Whisk in the cream, reduce the heat to low, and let simmer until thickened, about 2 minutes.
1 Blend in salt, pepper and flour, then stir in the milk and Romano cheese. 2  Simmer, stirring constantly, until thickened. 3  Remove from heat, cover and set aside. 4  To Make the Garlic Butter: Melt the butter in a small saucepan over medium heat. 5  Blend in the garlic, rosemary, and salt.
1 To make the Alfredo Sauce: To make the alfredo sauce, in a medium saucepan, melt the butter on medium heat. 2  Whisk in the heavy cream, garlic powder, salt, pepper, italian seasoning, and parmesan. 3  Allow to simmer while making the dough. 4  If you would like a thicker consistency add 1 T flour.
1 Combine flour and milk until smooth. 2  Stir into pan. 3  Bring to a boil; cook and stir for 2 minutes or until slightly thickened. 4  Spread over crusts; top with chicken, tomatoes, spinach, cheeses and Italian seasoning. 5  Bake 10-12 minutes longer or until crusts are lightly browned and cheeses are melted.
Cook the garlic for about 2 minutes and then add the cubed chicken. Sprinkle with salt and pepper and saute' the chicken for about 5- 10 minutes on med-low. Remove from heat and set aside. To assemble the pizza spread one cup of prepared Alfredo sauce evenly on the pre baked pizza crust.
Directions. 1  In a small saucepan over medium heat, melt butter. 2  Add garlic; cook and stir for 1 minute. 3  Add cream; cook until liquid is reduced by half, about 15-20 minutes. 4  Add the Parmesan cheese, salt and pepper; cook and stir until thickened.
Cook the garlic for about 2 minutes and then add the cubed chicken. Sprinkle with salt and pepper and saute' the chicken for about 5- 10 minutes on med-low. Remove from heat and set aside. Pizza Assembly: Spread one cup of prepared Alfredo sauce evenly on the pre baked pizza crust.
1 To Make Sauce: Melt butter in a small saucepan over medium heat. 2  Blend in salt, pepper and flour, then stir in the milk and Romano cheese. 3  Simmer, stirring constantly, until thickened. 4  Remove from heat, cover and set aside. 5  To Make the Garlic Butter: Melt the
1 Melt butter in medium saucepan with olive oil over medium/low heat. 2  Add the garlic, cream, white pepper and bring mixture to a simmer. 3  Stir often. 4  Add the Parmesan cheese and simmer sauce for 8-10 minutes or until sauce has thickened and is smooth.
1 In a small saucepan, saute garlic in butter until tender. 2  Stir in the parsley, pepper and remaining salt. 3  Combine flour and milk until smooth. 4  Stir into pan. 5  Bring to a boil; cook and stir for 2 minutes or until slightly thickened. 6  Spread over crusts; top with chicken, tomatoes, spinach, cheeses and Italian seasoning.