Standard Chinese (Putonghua/Guoyu/Huayu) is a standardized form of spoken Chinese based on the Beijing dialect of Mandarin. It is the official language of China and Taiwan, as well as one of four official languages of Singapore. It is one of the six official languages of the United Nations. Min Nan, part of the Min group, is widely spoken in southern Fujian, in neighboring Taiwan (where it is known as Taiwanese or Hoklo) and in Southeast Asia (also known as Hokkien in the Philippines, Singapore, and Malaysia).
Pŭtōnghua (Pŭtōnghuà). Mandarin mandarin is spoken by possibly more people than any other: language over.1 3. Billion it is the main language of, government the media and education In china And, taiwan and one of the four official languages In. singapore Hakka is spoken in south eastern China, parts of Taiwan and in the New Territories of Hong Kong. There are also significant communities of Hakka speakers in such countries as the USA, French Guiana, Mauritius and the UK. Further details.
The predominant language in China, which is divided into seven major dialect groups, is known as Hanyu (simplified Chinese: 汉语; traditional Chinese: 漢語; pinyin: Hanyǔ). hànyǔ and its study is considered a distinct academic discipline In. china The Languages of China are the languages that are spoken by China's 56 recognized ethnic groups.
Standard Chinese (known in China as Putonghua), a form of Mandarin Chinese, is the official national spoken language for the mainland and serves as a lingua franca within the Mandarin-speaking regions (and, to a lesser extent, across the other regions of mainland China). The Languages of China are the languages that are spoken by China's 56 recognized ethnic groups.
Shanghai, China, Asia. Image courtesy of Taiwanese Secrets. In Shanghai and throughout Mainland China, Mandarin Chinese is the official language. Regional dialects are spoken in different areas across China, and in Shanghai, you’ll hear people speaking Shanghainese. If you’ve spent some time studying Mandarin, a few similar-sounding words may pop out at you. 
The common language in Hong Kong and overseas Chinese communities is Cantonese. The major languages spoken in Taiwan are Mandarin, Taiwanese (a variety of Min), and Hakka. Six of the seven main dialects are in the southeast of Chinese, south of the Yangtze river. Mandarin is spoken in most of northern China and part of western China. The variety of Mandarin based on the speech in the capital Beijing is the official national language of mainland China and is termed Pŭtōnghua (pŭtōnghuà, 普通話 common). Language the common language In Hong kong and Overseas chinese communities Is. cantonese
The Chinese language known as Mandarin is the most common language in the world. But there are many other languages spoken in China, including Wu, Hunanese, Jiangxinese, Hakka, Yue (including Cantonese-Taishanese), Ping, Shaojiang, and Min. Each region has its own particular style of Mandarin, including variations in pronunciation and grammar. Standard Mandarin, the official Chinese language, is based on the Beijing dialect.
Mandarin is spoken by possibly more people than any other language: over 1.3 billion. It is the main language of government, the media and education in China and Taiwan, and one of the four official languages in Singapore. Hakka is spoken in south eastern China, parts of Taiwan and in the New Territories of Hong Kong. There are also significant communities of Hakka speakers in such countries as the USA, French Guiana, Mauritius and the UK. Further details.
The official Language is, of course, Chinese, and Mandarin is the official national spoken language except in Hong Kong and Macau; however, many different languages, as I have listed, are spoken due to China having so many different ethnic groups residing there. + 14 others found this useful. 