Report Abuse. Healing times for cartilage is 3-6 months. However, a lot of people say it takes closer to a year for the piercing to heal properly and feel truly stable. It can take a year for deep cartilage piercings. won't be sore for that long, but it may be that long until it's fully healed and you can sleep on it. Source(s): i have several.
It it is allowed to regrow the length of time depends upon how much new regrowth is required. If you injured a nerve in your lumbar spine (i.e. your low back), that may be 1 meters worth of growth to get to the feet. At 1-2 mm per day, that may take up 500 to 1000 days. If you injured a nerve at your wrist (as occurs with carpal tunnel syndrome and the median nerve), that may be 5 cm and could take 25-50 days to completely regrow.
it varies from person to person. normally anywhere between 6 weeks - 4 months. If you just want to change the earring, i took mine out after 2 weeks and put another in with no … troubles. At 1-2 mm per day, that may take up 500 to 1000 days. If you injured a nerve at your wrist (as occurs with carpal tunnel syndrome and the median nerve), that may be 5 cm and could take 25-50 days to completely regrow.
ANSWER #18 of 45. I got my cartilage pierced about 3 months ago, and honestly it didn't hurt much. I would say a 3/10 for the actual piercing. and a 5.5/10 for the healing process. It can take up to a year to heal, depending on each person. If you do regular sea salt soaks (3 times a week for the first two weeks, then any time it gets irritated) then it will heal better and faster. never get your cartilage pierced with a gun..it could shatter the cartilage. Its just as fast with a needle
Guest. Join Date: Feb 2009. I got mine done at a mall place with a gun about 12 years ago, and it took years to heal all the way. It would hurt when I slept on it funny or if my hair got tangled in it and it got pulled, and there was a little bump under the skin right next to one of them for years. The gauge is too small (usually 20g or 22g) and often the body starts pushing it out. That happens over the course of years, but in the meantime it never seems quite healed. If it's a larger gauge (16g or larger), circle style done by a real piercer, it could take up to 6 months.
It it is allowed to regrow the length of time depends upon how much new regrowth is required. If you injured a nerve in your lumbar spine (i.e. your low back), that may be 1 meters worth of growth to get to the feet. At 1-2 mm per day, that may take up 500 to 1000 days. If you injured a nerve at your wrist (as occurs with carpal tunnel syndrome and the median nerve), that may be 5 cm and could take 25-50 days to completely regrow.
Best Answer: a cartilage piercing can take anywhere from between 4 months and a year to fully heal. it should stop hurting within a couple of weeks but if you knock it then you may feel a slight stinging for a couple of moments before the pain stops. after the healing period, cartilage piercings very rarely hurt. It can take a year for deep cartilage piercings. won't be sore for that long, but it may be that long until it's fully healed and you can sleep on it. Source(s): i have several.
I have 2 cartilage piercings. The 1st one, I got it pierced with a gun. It wasn't painful at all at the moment it was being pierced (just like a earlobe piercing). The 2nd one, I got it pierced with a needle. If you do regular sea salt soaks (3 times a week for the first two weeks, then any time it gets irritated) then it will heal better and faster. never get your cartilage pierced with a gun..it could shatter the cartilage. Its just as fast