Mariner 9, the first spacecraft to successfully go into orbit around Mars launched on May 30, 1971, and arrived November 13, 1971 for a duration of 167 days. This is the same pattern that has held up for more almost 50 years of Mars exploration: approximately 150-300 days.
Every two years or so, Mars and Earth reach their closest point, called “opposition”, when Mars can be as close as 55,000,000 km from Earth. And every two years, space agencies take advantage of this orbital alignment to send spacecraft to the Red Planet.
How long does it take? It takes the Earth one year to orbit the Sun and it takes Mars about 1.9 years (say 2 years for easy calculation) to orbit the Sun. The elliptical orbit which carries you from Earth to Mars is longer than Earth's orbit, but shorter than Mars' orbit.
That means you will have to spend 3-4 months at Mars before you can begin your return trip. All in all, your trip to Mars would take about 21 months: 9 months to get there, 3 months there, and 9 months to get back. With our current rocket technology, there is no way around this.
The total journey time from Earth to Mars takes between 150-300 days depending on the speed of the launch, the alignment of Earth and Mars, and the length of the journey the spacecraft takes to reach its target. It really just depends on how much fuel you’re willing to burn to get there. More fuel, shorter travel time.
The time that it takes to get to Mars from Earth can be between 150 and 300 days, depending on where Mars is in relation to Earth, the speed of the launch, and the exact travel path that is taken. The distance between Earth and Mars is constantly changing, depending on their relative positions in their orbits.
The journey from Earth to Mars takes about 300 days. Every two years Mars is at its closest point, only 55 million km from Earth, and it's the ideal time to send a spacecraft. Travel time depends on the positions of the planets and how much fuel you're willing to burn.
Unmanned probes from Earth can take from 7 months to two years to reach Mars, depending on when they are launched and how fast they can travel. The direct distance can vary from about 58 million kilometers to more than 400 million kilometers. The distance is at least 36 million miles (58 million km).