Career Education in Project Management. In a project management degree program, you'll learn about the five processes of project management: initiating, planning, executing, controlling and closing. You'll also study management topics such as human resources, communications, risk management and procurement. The minimum level of education for a career in project management is a college degree, usually as a specialization within a Bachelor of Business Administration degree. Industry professionals are increasingly turning to online degrees in project management and related specializations
According to Tom DiVincenzo's report for the Bureau of Labor Statistics titled Project Managers Stay in Charge and Out Front, no specific degree requirements exist for project managers, although the bachelor's degree has emerged as the standard degree required for project management positions. Fields of Project Management. There are many different fields that the aspiring project manager can enter. Each field can require a specific degree or simply one related to it. The aspiring project manager can also pursue a degree in project management that teaches a broad range of leadership skills.
General Education Coursework. Regardless of the degree path pursued, the project manager needs to have a strong grounding in general education courses offered as part of most bachelor's degree programs. Much of what the project manager does requires the development of strong leadership skills. Fields of Project Management. There are many different fields that the aspiring project manager can enter. Each field can require a specific degree or simply one related to it. The aspiring project manager can also pursue a degree in project management that teaches a broad range of
To become a project manager, you can choose to earn a bachelor's or master's degree or a professional certificate. Read on for more details about the education requirements needed to pursue a career in project management. Bachelor's Degree in Project Management. One way to prepare for a career as a project manager is to complete a bachelor's degree program in project management or organizational
It is increasingly important for construction managers to have a bachelor’s degree in construction science, construction management, architecture, or engineering. As construction processes become more complex, employers are placing greater importance on specialized education. 
A project manager is a professional in the field of project management. Project managers can have the responsibility of the planning, execution and closing of any project, typically relating to construction industry, architecture, aerospace and defense, computer networking, telecommunications or software development.
Project managers work on specific projects that have definite outcomes, are time limited and have to stay within a budget. These roles typically include: 1  planning what work needs to be done, when and who’s going to do it. 2  looking at the risks involved in a particular project and managing these risks. 
A project management degree is a type of academic degree awarded to students who have completed a college, university, or business school program that focuses on project management. Types of Project Management Degrees. There are four basic types of project management degrees that can be earned from a college, university, or business school. They include: 1  Associate's Degree-An associate's degree in project management takes approximately two years to complete. 2  The bulk of courses will be general education courses. 1 Master's Degree-Master's degree programs usually take one to two years to complete. 2  Some programs may be MBA programs with a focus on project management. 3  Although some core courses may be required, nearly all of the courses in a master's or MBA program will revolve around project management or closely related topics.
Regardless of the degree path pursued, the project manager needs to have a strong grounding in general education courses offered as part of most bachelor's degree programs. Fields of Project Management. There are many different fields that the aspiring project manager can enter. Each field can require a specific degree or simply one related to it. The aspiring project manager can also pursue a degree in project management that teaches a broad range of leadership skills.