Cara. Meaning of the Irish name Cara. Listen and learn how to pronounce Cara so you can get the correct pronunciation for this Irish girl name. 
Origin of the name Kara: Derived from the Italian cara (beloved, dear), which is from the Latin carus (beloved, dear). From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. 
English Meaning: The name Kara is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Kara is: Pure. Greek Meaning: The name Kara is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Kara is: Pure. American Meaning: The name Kara is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Kara is: Pure. Scandinavian Meaning: The name Kara is a Scandinavian baby name.
It is used mainly in English, German, and Italian. It is derived literally from the word cara which is of the meaning 'dear, beloved'. The name is not common in Italy as it has not been borne by saints and is therefore not sanctioned by the Catholic Church. Among English speakers it was first used in the late 19th century. 
Derived from the Latin cara (beloved) or from the Irish Gaelic cara (friend). Alternatively, Cara is used as a short form of Caroline and Charlotte. 
Cara is a female given name of Latin and Irish origin. It has been frequently used mostly in recent times, especially in the 1970s, 1980s and 1990s. Cara means friend in Irish. Cara also means beloved in Latin and the names Carina, Cherie and Cheryl derive from it. Kara, the alternative spelling, is from the Cornish word, meaning love.
Cara /cara/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced KAR-ah, KEER-ah. It is of Latin, Irish and Gaelic origin, and the meaning of Cara is  beloved; friend. 20th-century coinage: feminine form of the Latin and Italian word for dear. In Irish cara means friend. See also Caroline. Cara is a very popular first name for females (#523 out of 4276, Top 12%) and also a very popular surname for all people (#26419 out of 150436, Top 18%). (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the baby name popularity of Cara for girls.
The name Cara is a Celtic baby name. In Celtic the meaning of the name Cara is: Friend. American Meaning: The name Cara is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Cara is: Friend. English Meaning: The name Cara is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Cara is: Feminine manly. Italian Meaning: The name Cara is an Italian baby name. In Italian the meaning of the name Cara is: Dear, beloved. From the feminine form of the Italian 'cara' or the Latin 'carus'. Latin Meaning: The name Cara is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Cara is: Doe; Beloved.
Etymology & Historical Origin-Cara. Cara is the Latin and Italian word for “dear” as in “cherished, beloved” but it is also the Irish-Gaelic word for “friend”. With a name like Cara you get two lovely etymologies for the price of one! And if that’s not enough, “cara” is the Spanish word for “face”. 