Organisms that utilize an open circulatory system don't have 'true' blood since it is mixed with other fluids. The 'blood' in these organisms is defined as hemolymph, or the mixture between blood and interstitial fluid. You can remember that because 'heme' is Latin for 'blood,' and 'lymph' refers to liquid. Another interesting aspect about organisms that utilize an open circulatory system is they can't create a blood pressure. In mammals, our blood pressure is due to the pumping of our heart. Remember, our blood is separated from our
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: An open circulatory system is an arrangement of internal transport in which circulatory fluid, in a cavity called the hemocoel (also spelled haemocoel), bathes the organs directly. 
Arthropods and mollusks have an open circulatory system. In this type of system, there is neither a true heart or capillaries as are found in humans. Instead of a heart there are blood vessels that act as pumps to force the blood along. Instead of capillaries, blood vessels join directly with open sinuses. 
An Open circulatory system is one in which the flow of blood/hemolymph is from the heart to the peripheral organs then to the body cavity. There is no system of veins to carry … the blood back to the heart. Confidence votes 39. An open circulatory system is one that is not completely contained in vessels like arteries, veins, and capillaries.
A Closed Circulatory system-Is a blood circulation system in which blood moves through the body in closed vessels. In the closed circulatory system, the blood is confined to vessels. The heart pumps blood to vessels through smaller vessels which go to the organs. This system has a more efficient way of transporting blood then an open circulatory system. Some animals that have this systems include earthworms, squids, octopus, and all vertebrates, like humans. 
An open circulatory system describes a system where blood and interstitial fluid are allowed to mix in an organism. Interstitial fluid is just the fluid found between cells in the body. Another interesting aspect about organisms that utilize an open circulatory system is they can't create a blood pressure. In mammals, our blood pressure is due to the pumping of our heart. Remember, our blood is separated from our interstitial fluid.
Synonyms: cardiovascular system; circulatory system. Hypernyms (circulatory system is a kind of...): vascular system (the vessels and tissue that carry or circulate fluids such as blood or lymph or sap through the body of an animal or plant). Meronyms (parts of circulatory system): blood vessel (a vessel in which blood circulates). vein; vena; venous blood vessel (a blood vessel that carries blood from the capillaries toward the heart). venation; venous blood system ((zoology) the system of venous blood vessels in an animal). lymph gland; lymph node; node (the source of lymph and lymphocytes).
Top 10 amazing movie makeup transformations. An open circulatory system is a type of circulatory system in which nutrients and waste are moved through the body with the assistance of a fluid which flows freely through the body cavity, rather than being contained in veins. The fluid in an open circulatory system is sometimes referred to as hemolymph, referencing the fact that it is a cross between blood and lymph.
Closed circulatory system Vertebrates, and a few invertebrates, have a closed circulatory system. Closed circulatory systems have the blood closed at all times within vessels of different size and wall thickness. In this type of system, blood is pumped by a heart through vessels, and does not normally fill body cavities. Open circulatory system The open circulatory system is common to molluscs and arthropods. Open circulatory systems (evolved in crustaceans, insects, mollusks and other invertebrates) pump blood into a hemocoel with the blood diffusing back to the circulatory system between cells.