The pericardium is a tough double layered fibroserous sac which covers the heart. The space between the two layers of serous pericardium (see below), the pericardial cavity, is filled with serous fluid which protects the heart from any kind of external jerk or shock. Both of these layers function in lubricating the heart to prevent friction during heart activity. The visceral layer extends to the beginning of the great vessels (the large blood vessels serving the heart) becoming one with the parietal layer of the serous pericardium.
Parietal Pain. Parietal pain occurs when there is an irritation of the peritoneal lining. The peritoneum has a higher number of sensitive nerve fibers, so the pain is generally more severe and easier to localize. The patient will typically present in a guarded position with shallow breathing. There are three different types of abdominal pain: visceral pain, parietal pain and referred pain. The type of pain varies depending on the organ involved.
Visceral pain is directly related to the organ involved. The majority of organs do not have an abundance of nerve fibers, so the patient might experience mild or less severe pain that is poorly localized. It’s important to understand this does not mean the patient is experiencing a mild or less severe condition. There are three different types of abdominal pain: visceral pain, parietal pain and referred pain. The type of pain varies depending on
The serous pericardium (fig. 23-1) is a closed sac, the parietal layer of which lines the inner surface of the fibrous pericardium and is reflected onto the heart as the visceral layer, or epicardium. 
In between the parietal and visceral pericardial layers there is a potential space called the pericardial cavity, which contains a supply of lubricating serous fluid known as the pericardial fluid. When the visceral layer comes into contact with heart (not the great vessels) it is known as the epicardium. Both of these layers function in lubricating the heart to prevent friction during heart activity. The visceral layer extends to the beginning of the great vessels (the large blood vessels serving the heart) becoming one with the parietal layer of the serous pericardium.
Referred pain is visceral pain that is felt in another area of the body and occurs when organs share a common nerve pathway. For this reason, it is poorly localized but generally constant in nature. An example is a patient with liver problems that experiences referred pain in the neck or just below the scapula. There are three different types of abdominal pain: visceral pain, parietal pain and referred pain. The type of pain varies depending on the organ involved.
The Normal Pericardium. The pericardium is a relatively avascular fibrous sac that surrounds the heart. It consists of 2 layers: the visceral and parietal pericardium. The visceral pericardium is composed of a single layer of mesothelial cells that are adherent to the cardiac epicardium. 
The pericardium (from the Greek περί, around and κάρδιον, heart) is a double-walled sac containing the heart and the roots of the great vessels. The pericardial sac has two layers, a serous layer and a fibrous layer. It encloses the pericardial cavity which contains pericardial fluid. Both of these layers function in lubricating the heart to prevent friction during heart activity. The visceral layer extends to the beginning of the great vessels (the large blood vessels serving the heart) becoming one with the parietal layer of the serous pericardium.
The serous pericardium, in turn, is divided into two layers, the parietal pericardium, which is fused to and inseparable from the fibrous pericardium, and the visceral pericardium, which is part of the epicardium. Both of these layers function in lubricating the heart to prevent friction during heart activity. The visceral layer extends to the beginning of the great vessels (the large blood vessels serving the heart) becoming one with the parietal layer of the serous pericardium.
Parietal pericardium: The outer layer of the pericardium which is a conical sac of fibrous tissue that surrounds the heart and the roots of the great blood vessels. This small amount of fluid, the pericardial fluid, acts as a lubricant to allow normal heart movement within the chest. The word pericardium means around the heart. The inner part of the pericardium that closely envelops the heart is called the visceral pericardium or epicardium.