Because continental crust is less dense than oceanic crust it floats higher on the mantle, just like a piece of Styrofoam floats higher on water than a piece of wood does. The mantle, oceanic crust and continental crust have different densities because they are made of different kinds of rock with different densities. Layers that are less dense, such as the crust, float on layers that are denser, such as the mantle. Both oceanic crust and continental crust are less dense than the mantle, but oceanic crust is denser than continental crust. This is partly why the continents are at a higher elevation than the ocean floor.
The density of the oceanic crust is about 3.0 g/cm3. The continental crust has a lower density. This difference in the average densities allows many natural phenomenon to occur on and below the surface of the Earth. The oceanic crust scarcely floats on the mantle. Accordingly, the crust is divided into two types; the continental crust and the oceanic crust. Oceanic Crust. The oceanic crust is that part of the Earth’s crust that covers the ocean basins. It consists of dark-colored rocks made up of basalt.
A term that is sometimes used for oceanic crust rocks is sima, which is short for magnesium silicate, a common component of these rocks. Another term for these undersea igneous rocks is mafic, which comes from the fact that they are high in magnesium and iron. Basalt and gabbro are examples of mafic rocks. It's thinner, denser, and simpler in structure than the continental crust. Oceanic crust is also younger, on average; from its birth at a mid-ocean ridge to its end at a subduction zone is no more than 250 million years.
Oceanic crust is the uppermost layer of an oceanic tectonic plate. The crust overlies the solidified and uppermost layer of the mantle. The crust and the solid mantle layer together comprise an oceanic plate. The plates of the Earth together are referred to as the lithosphere. Oceanic crust is the result of erupted mantle material originating from below the plate, cooled and in most instances, modified chemically by seawater. This occurs mostly at mid-ocean ridges, but also at scattered hotspots, and also in rare but powerful occurences known as flood basalt eruptions
For the oceanic crust, the thickness is around 3 to 6 miles which is about 5 to 10 kilometers. The oceanic crust is thinner than the continental crust. Continental Crust. The continental crust accounts for 40% of the surface of the Earth. Accordingly, the crust is divided into two types; the continental crust and the oceanic crust. Oceanic Crust. The oceanic crust is that part of the Earth’s crust that covers the ocean basins. It consists of dark-colored rocks made up of basalt.
Oceanic crust is the part of the Earth's crust that makes up the seafloor. It's thinner, denser, and simpler in structure than the continental crust. Oceanic crust is also younger, on average; from its birth at a mid-ocean ridge to its end at a subduction zone is no more than 250 million years.
Rockhound. The oceanic crust is part of the crust that is made fully out of basaltic rock and is several times thinner than the continental crust which is made out of granitic rock. Ocea … nic crust underlies Earth's oceans and is produced at divergent plate boundaries which are commonly referred to as mid-ocean ridges. 
1 The continental crust is typically from 30 km (20 mi) to 50 km (30 mi) thick and is mostly composed of slightly less dense rocks than those of the oceanic crust. 2  Some of these less dense rocks, such as granite, are common in the continental crust but rare to absent in the oceanic crust. The boundary between the crust and mantle is conventionally placed at the Mohorovičić discontinuity, a boundary defined by a contrast in seismic velocity. The crust occupies less than 1% of Earth's volume. The oceanic crust of the sheet is different from its continental crust. 1  The oceanic crust is 5 km (3 mi) to 10 km (6 mi) thick and is composed primarily of basalt, diabase, and gabbro