(June 2011). The nephron (from Greek νεφρός - nephros, meaning kidney) is the basic structural and functional unit of the kidney. Its chief function is to regulate the concentration of water and soluble substances like sodium salts by filtering the blood, reabsorbing what is needed and excreting the rest as urine. The two general classes of nephrons are cortical nephrons and juxtamedullary nephrons, both of which are classified according to the length of their associated Loop of Henle and location of their renal corpuscle.
The functional unit of the kidney is the nephron. The major functions of the kidney are to maintain extracellular fluids, to eliminate wastes resulting from normal metabolism, and to excrete xenobiotics and their metabolites. Mammalian kidneys have 10,000-1,000,000 nephrons per kidney. 
Nephron is the basic structural and functional unit of the kidney. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nephron It is composed of a renal corpuscle and a renal tubule. The renal corp … uscle consists of a glomerulus and the Bowman's capsule. It is the nephron's initial filtering component
Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Nephron is the basic structural and functional unit of the kidney. Its chief function is to regulate the concentration of water and soluble substances like sodium salts by filtering the blood, reabsorbing what is needed and excreting the rest as urine. Report Abuse. The nephron is the functional unit of the kidney. This consists of the renal corpuscle, proximal convoluted tubule, loop of henly. the distal convoluted tubule and the collecting duct.
Each kidney is about 4 or 5 inches long -- about the size of a fist. The kidneys' function are to filter the blood. All the blood in our bodies passes through the kidneys several times a day. The kidneys remove wastes, control the body's fluid balance, and regulate the balance of electrolytes. As the kidneys filter blood, they create urine, which collects in the kidneys' pelvis -- funnel-shaped structures that drain down tubes called ureters to the bladder. Each kidney contains around a million units called nephrons, each of which is a microscopic filter for blood.
Report Abuse. The nephron is the functional unit of the kidney, responsible for the actual purification and filtration of the blood. About one million nephrons are in the cortex of each kidney, and each one consists of a renal corpuscle and a renal tubule which carry out the functions of the nephron. Report Abuse. The nephron is the functional unit of the kidney. This consists of the renal corpuscle, proximal convoluted tubule, loop of henly. the distal convoluted tubule and the collecting duct.
Most people know that a major function of the kidneys is to remove waste products and excess fluid from the body. These waste products and excess fluid are removed through the urine. 
SonyaM June 8, 2012 Posts, The Renal System 5 Comments. Each of our kidneys contains over a million nephrons. They are the functioning unit of the kidneys. They remove waste from the body and produces urine. Each nephron is made up of two parts: a renal corpuscle and renal tubules (Figure 1). Figure 1. Schematic diagram of the nephron demonstrating the site of action of diuretics. Source: PostGraduate Medical Journal. 1 This is the head of the nephron and it is where urine first forms. 2  It consists of the glomerulus, which is surrounded by the Bowman’s capsule (figure 2). 3  The glomerulus is like a network of capillaries.
Nephron is the basic structural and functional unit of the kidney. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nephron It is composed of a renal corpuscle and a renal tubule. The renal corp … uscle consists of a glomerulus and the Bowman's capsule. It is the nephron's initial filtering component. 
Each nephron is composed of an initial filtering component (the  renal corpuscle ) and a tubule specialized for reabsorption and secretion (the renal tubule). The renal corpuscle filters out solutes from the blood, delivering water and small solutes to the renal tubule for modification. The two general classes of nephrons are cortical nephrons and juxtamedullary nephrons, both of which are classified according to the length of their associated Loop of Henle and location of their renal corpuscle.