Methylphenidate (trade names Concerta, Methylin, Medikinet, Ritalin, Equasym XL, Quillivant XR, Metadate) is a central nervous system (CNS) stimulant of the phenethylamine and piperidine classes that is used in the treatment of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and narcolepsy. Methylphenidate is a commonly prescribed psychostimulant and works by increasing the activity of the central nervous system. It produces such effects as increasing or maintaining alertness, combating fatigue, and improving attention.
Ritalin is a stimulant medication that affects the central nervous system. It is used to treat attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), attention deficit disorder (ADD), and narcolepsy. Ritalin helps to increase attention and control symptoms such as hyperactivity and impulsiveness.
Ritalin ® (methylphenidate hydrochloride) is a prescription medication licensed to treat attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in children and teenagers. The drug is not approved for use in adult ADHD, although it is approved to treat narcolepsy in adults. 
Ritalin is the brand name of the drug methylphenidate hydrochloride. Doctors prescribe Ritalin to treat attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and a sleep disorder known as narcolepsy. Ritalin is in a class of medications called central nervous system stimulants (CNS stimulants). It is used to treat attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), attention deficit disorder (ADD), and narcolepsy. Ritalin helps to increase attention and control symptoms such as hyperactivity and impulsiveness.
Last reviewed on RxList 4/24/2015. Ritalin (methylphenidate) is a central nervous system stimulant prescribed for treating narcolepsy (uncontrollable sleepiness), and attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). Ritalin is available as a generic drug. 
Marketed under numerous brand names, the best known of which is Ritalin, methylphenidate and other amphetamines function as central nervous system (CNS) stimulants, and have been FDA approved for the treatment of both childhood and adult attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) as well as narcolepsy in adults. Although it is not known exactly how Ritalin works, it is believed to increase the flow of the neurotransmitters dopamine and norepinephrine, chemicals that carry the signal between neurons (cells of the nervous system).
Uses. Methylphenidate is used as part of a treatment program (including psychological, educational, and social measures) to treat attention deficit hyperactivity disorder-ADHD. It can help increase your ability to pay attention, stay focused on an activity, and control behavior problems. 
DrugFacts: Stimulant ADHD Medications: Methylphenidate and Amphetamines. Stimulant medications including amphetamines (e.g., Adderall) and methylphenidate (e.g., Ritalin and Concerta) are often prescribed to treat children, adolescents, or adults diagnosed with attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). 
This suggests that Ritalin does bring the brain [of a child with ADHD ] back to the brain the typically developing kid has, said study author Constance Moore, associate director of the translational center for comparative neuroimaging at the University of Massachusetts Medical School. By Barbara Bronson Gray. HealthDay Reporter. FRIDAY, May 31 (HealthDay News) -- Ritalin activates specific areas of the brain in children with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), mimicking the brain activity of children without the condition, a new review says.