The term heart disease is often used interchangeably with the term cardiovascular disease.. Cardiovascular disease generally refers to conditions that involve narrowed or blocked blood vessels that can lead to a heart attack, chest pain (angina) or stroke. Diseases under the heart disease umbrella include blood vessel diseases, such as coronary artery disease; heart rhythm problems (arrhythmias); and heart defects you're born with (congenital heart defects), among others.
The most common symptom of coronary artery disease is angina, or chest pain. Angina can be described as a discomfort, heaviness, pressure, aching, burning, fullness, squeezing, or painful feeling in your chest. It can be mistaken for indigestion or heartburn. Angina may also be felt in the shoulders, arms, neck, throat, jaw, or back. Other symptoms of coronary artery disease include: 1  Shortness of breath. 2  Palpitations (irregular heart beats, or a flip-flop feeling in your chest). 3  A faster heartbeat. 4  Weakness or dizziness. 5  Nausea. 6  Sweating
The most common type of heart disease in the United States is coronary artery disease, which affects the blood flow to the heart and can cause a heart attack. The term heart disease refers to several types of heart conditions. The most common type of heart disease in the United States is coronary artery disease, which affects the blood flow to the heart. Decreased blood flow can cause a heart attack. Learn more about heart disease, heart attack, and related conditions: 1  Coronary Artery Disease. 2  Heart Attack. 3  Other Related Conditions.
Heart disease, or cardiovascular disease, is a general name for a wide variety of diseases, disorders and conditions that affect the heart and blood vessels. Heart disease is the number one cause of death in the United States, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (Source: CDC). Heart diseases can damage the coronary arteries, which provide oxygen-rich blood to the heart muscle. Heart diseases can also impair the functioning or structure of the heart and blood vessels. Coronary artery disease causes most heart attacks and is the most common form of heart disease. The types of heart disease include: Atherosclerosis is a buildup of cholesterol, calcium and blood clotting material on the walls of the arteries. The material that builds up is called plaque
Arrythmias are another type of heart disease. Symptoms of arrhythmias can include dizziness, racing heart, and palpitations. The list of possible symptoms that can occur with heart conditions is very broad and reflects disturbances in heart function and circulation as well as loss of oxygen delivery to critical organs. 
Symptoms of heart disease can differ depending on the type and severity of heart disease and individual factors. Symptoms can occur as an isolated problem or in combination with other heart conditions. One well-known symptom of heart disease is chest pain, but not all chest pain is caused by heart disease. In addition, not all people who have heart disease experience chest pain. Some people even have a heart attack without having chest pain.
Symptoms of a heart attack can include: 1  Discomfort, pressure, heaviness, or pain in the chest, arm, or below the breastbone. 2  Discomfort radiating to the back, jaw, throat, or arm. 3  Fullness, indigestion, or choking feeling (may feel like heartburn). It can be mistaken for indigestion or heartburn. Angina may also be felt in the shoulders, arms, neck, throat, jaw, or back. Other symptoms of coronary artery disease include: 1  Shortness of breath. 2  Palpitations (irregular heart beats, or a flip-flop feeling in your chest). 3  A faster heartbeat. 4  Weakness or dizziness. 5  Nausea.
Symptoms of heart disease in your blood vessels (atherosclerotic disease). Cardiovascular disease is caused by narrowed, blocked or stiffened blood vessels that prevent your heart, brain or other parts of your body from receiving enough blood. Heart arrhythmia symptoms can include: 1  Fluttering in your chest. 2  Racing heartbeat (tachycardia). 3  Slow heartbeat (bradycardia). 4  Chest pain or discomfort. 5  Shortness of breath. 6  Lightheadedness. 7  Dizziness. 8  Fainting (syncope) or near fainting.
The classic symptoms of chest pain and shortness of breath due to atherosclerotic or coronary artery disease are called angina. Should one of the coronary arteries become completely blocked, usually due to a blood clot that forms, blood supply to part of the heart muscle is completely lost and that piece of muscle dies. This is called a heart attack or myocardial infarction (myo=muscle + cardia=heart + infarction = tissue death).