High Tide Causes Flooding in Miami Beach. The high tide has caused some flooding in South Florida. NBC 6's Jamie Guirola reports. (Published Monday, Sept. 28, 2015). The courtyard of the Bellamar Hotel on 31st turned into a pond; the water was hazardous to the property. 
Seasonal Miami flooding has recently been called a direct consequence of climate change, depicted with sinister language such as “walls of seawater,” “corrosive,” and “ever-rising waters” reaching “Old Testament” proportions. The flooding in Miami is “not a climate change thing, nothing like that,” National Hurricane Center spokesman Dennis Feltgen told National Review Online.
Miami is susceptible to this flooding, McKie explains, because of its geology. Ocean water pools in the pores of Floridian limestone. Beachside condos lie perilously close to the edge of the sea, with little land reaching over six feet above sea level. The flooding in Miami is “not a climate change thing, nothing like that,” National Hurricane Center spokesman Dennis Feltgen told National Review Online.
When the sun went down Thursday night, the water came up in Miami Beach, as higher than average tide levels caused minor flooding. The same phenomenon is expected to keep happening at high tide, at around 8 a.m. and 8 p.m., for the next several days. NBC 6’s Christina Hernandez reports. 
But the flooding is already happening in Florida. At the University of Miami’s Department of Atmospheric Sciences, Brian McNoldy and other researchers have been accumulating sea level data from Virginia Key (a small island just south of Miami Beach) since 1996. 
(Source: Miami-Dade.gov). MIAMI BEACH (CBSMiami) – For a third day in row there were flooded streets in parts of Miami Beach, but there was nary a raindrop in sight. The water came from the annual autumnal high tides which cause canals, rivers and coastlines to flood without any rain. 
The mean sea level has risen noticeably in the Miami and Miami Beach areas just in the past decade. Flooding events are getting more frequent, and some areas flood during particularly high tides now: no rain or storm surge necessary. Perhaps most alarming is that the rate of sea level rise is accelerating. Whether the majority of the cause is anthropogenic or natural, the end result is indisputable: sea level is rising and it is due to climate change. It is not a political issue, nor does it matter if someone believes in it or not. Tidal flooding on the corner of Dade Blvd and Purdy Ave in Miami Beach in 2010.
MIAMI BEACH (CBSMiami) – South Florida’s autumnal high tides have arrived which means canals, rivers and coastlines are at risk of flooding. On Miami Beach Monday morning, there was some flooding on West Avenue between 7th and 11th Streets, West Avenue and 17th Street and Alton Road and 8th Street. The flooding is caused by unusually high tides which take place in September, October and November. 
Continue reading the main story. MIAMI BEACH — The sunny-day flooding was happening again. During high tide one recent afternoon, Eliseo Toussaint looked out the window of his Alton Road laundromat and watched bottle-green saltwater seep from the gutters, fill the street and block the entrance to his front door. 
High tides rose above predicted levels Thursday, causing some unexpected flooding in low-lying portions of Miami Beach. “Our guests are very angry,” said Carlo Rizzuti, front desk agent at the Alden Hotel on Indian Creek Drive. “They’re coming in with wet feet. We’re receiving them with towels.”. 