One nice thing about contracting with a fence company to put up your fence is that they may obtain the fence permit for you. This is a great time-saver, though keep in mind that the fee is still borne by you. Not all fence companies do this, but a good fence company will.
Before rushing into fence installation, you need to do a little homework on permits, possible restrictions on erecting a barrier at the proposed site of the installation, and whether or not hiring a surveyor is called for. You also have to find out if utility lines lie underground where you propose to dig....
The codes and regulations established by your city, town or county will let you know exactly what type of fence requires a construction permit and what doesn’t. Some agencies also require a permit for repair or replacement of an existing fence.
Many cities and counties will require that a homeowner file a permit for the job. This permit is to ensure that your fence design, size, scale and material, are built to code and approved by the city or local governing body.
You need a permit to put up a fence. You need a permit for just about every damn thing you do in New Jersey. Some towns require permits for installing dishwashers and hot water heaters. I generally ignore them unless it's visible, but a fence definitely is.
Often, fence permitting depends on the type of fence. In unincorporated areas, you often find that fences less than six feet tall do not require permits. In cities, though, almost any type of fence will need a permit.
Some localities require it, while others don't. Also, the fence permits may be issued either on the city or county level. For example, I live in King County, in the Seattle, Washington area. If I wish to construct a fence in unincorporated King County, I must contact King County.
When do I need to get a permit. Your permit expires if work is not started within 180 days from its issuance. Once you have begun work, your permit expires if work is suspended or abandoned for 180 days or more.