Franchise royalties are additional fees that are paid to the franchisor on a continuous basis over and above the initial startup costs. The royalty fee can be calculated using a few different methods. However, the fee is usually based on a percentage of the franchisee's income. Some franchisors use a different method in calculating the royalty payment; they base it on 6-10 percent of net sales after expenses. Also, there are a few franchisors that charge a flat fee without regard to sales. Keep in mind that franchise royalty fees are usually fair and standard; leaving no room for negotiation.
The franchise fee is for a certain term and is renewable typically at a percentage of your then-current franchise fee. Royalties are typically a percentage of the franchisee’s gross revenue (not profit) and are ongoing for the term of the franchise. The franchise fee is a one-time fee that is charged to the franchisee. This fee is payment, in part, for expenses incurred by you for furnishing assistance and services to franchisees.
Further, cooperative/regional advertising may not be fully assessed until a franchise company reaches a larger size in its market. Total fees, a combination of royalties and advertising fees, range from a low of 6.3 percent to more than double at the high end of 14 percent. Differences in industries, services provided, and brand value are among the reasons why total fees vary widely from franchise system to franchise system. # # #. Ed
Buying into a franchise is one method an entrepreneur might undertake to start his or her own business. Franchises provide the entrepreneur with name-recognition, training and operational support from day one in exchange for an initial franchise fee and continuing franchise royalty payments. Multiply total revenue by a royalty percentage (typically 2%-10%) every period. Under this method, the royalty fee fluctuates and allows the franchisee to reduce his or her royalty fee expense when sales are slow. Alternatively, this allows the franchisor to collect a larger fee when a franchisee’s sales are great.
Royalty fees are another franchise fee type. Your contract will provide for “continuing fees” or “continuing royalties,” made over the life of the franchise contract. Royalties are a key element when you’re looking at a franchise or negotiating your contract. There’s no single franchise fee formula. The franchisor, the person or company selling you the franchise, sets the fees. Fees can vary greatly. Generally, franchise fees range between $10,000 and $50,000. Fees at the higher end are common with well-known businesses, like fast-food restaurants. Some franchise fees are even higher
Once franchise fees, royalty rates, or other fees are established, the franchisor is limited to the adjustments they can make, except with respect to their future franchisees, franchisees that sign successor agreements, or after long and expensive negotiations with their existing franchisees. 
Most franchises charge franchisees a royalty based on a percentage of gross sales. The average is 6.7 percent, however, the percentage varies by type of industry, from 4.6 percent for restaurant and hotel franchises to 12.5 percent for personnel services franchises. Total fees, a combination of royalties and advertising fees, range from a low of 6.3 percent to more than double at the high end of 14 percent.
Franchise Fees. The costs of starting and operating a franchise vary widely. Some offer initial fees of less that $15,000 for a home based franchise to as high as $500,000 to just get off the ground. So, typical franchise fees that are paid to the franchisor at the start of the business and on a continuing basis are usually only these three: 1  Initial Franchise Fee — As mentioned above, the initial franchise fee is the first one out of the gate. 2  This is payment for the right to use the franchisor’s business model. 