Are toads mammals, reptiles or amphibians? Are toads mammals, reptiles or amphibians? Toads are reptiles. Amphibians are cold-blooded animals. They have backbones and can live both on land and in water. Are cats mammals, reptiles or amphibians? Are cats mammals, reptiles or amphibians? Cats are mammals. Are snakes mammals, reptiles or amphibians? Are snakes mammals, reptiles or amphibians? Snakes are reptiles. Reptiles are cold-blooded animals. Most reptiles lay eggs, and all have scales on their bodies. Are lizards mammals, reptiles or amphibians? Are lizards mammals, reptiles or amphibians? Lizar
Reptiles are a group (Reptilia) of tetrapod animals comprising today's turtles, crocodilians, snakes, lizards, tuatara, and their extinct relatives. The study of these traditional reptile groups, historically combined with that of modern amphibians, is called herpetology. 
Reptiles. The world's 8,240 species of reptiles inhabit every continent except Antarctica. Reptiles include turtles, snakes, crocodiles, and lizards. They can be as small as the dwarf gecko (less than an inch long) or as big as the saltwater crocodile, which can weigh more than a ton. All reptiles have scales, but some are too small to be seen.
1 Reptiles have claws or nails, amphibians do not. 2  Reptiles only breathe air through their lungs. 3  Amphibians are born breathing with gills until they develop lungs later in life when they are older. 4  Reptiles lay eggs that have a tough, leathery shell. A few rules for being able to tell if something is an amphibian or a reptile are as follows: 1  Reptiles have scales, whether they are large, small, rough, smooth, etc. 2  This protective layer helps them conserve water and has also allowed them to spread across land in a way that amphibians are incapable of.
Topic: I’m doing research on turtles and need to know if they are reptiles or if they are amphibians. It makes sense for turtles to be reptiles because of their skin but they also live in water like amphibians.. so I’m a little lost on what’s the answer for this question. I need the answer quick, I’m doing some homework. *Awarded Answer. Posted by Jaime K: Turtles are reptiles and not amphibians. The easiest way to know whether or not an animal is a reptile is if it lays eggs with a hard shell. I was taught that years ago and it really helps to determine what animals are reptiles. You said that turtles live in water but they can also live on land
No, because reptiles and amphibians are two different species of animals. Amphibians are animals like frogs, toads and salamanders. Reptiles are snakes, lizards, turtles,... … I think what you really meant is if reptiles can live on land and in the water. Several reptiles, like the Chinese Water Dragon (Physignathus cocincinus), the Plumed Basilisk (Basiliscus plumifrons) and a lot of turtles (especially swamp turtles) live a semi-aquatic life. No, reptiles are a type of species, as are amphibians. Therefore, a reptile cannot be an amphibian. Another reason is amphibians live in or near water. Reptiles do not.
Millions of households in the United States own at least one reptile or amphibian. Reptiles include turtles, lizards, and snakes, and amphibians include frogs, salamanders, and caecilians. Reptile and amphibian owners should be aware that their pets may carry germs that make people sick. 
Best Answer: Turtles are reptiles. Reptiles include turtles, crocodilians, lizards, snakes and tuatara (found only in New Zealand). Reptiles were the world's first truly terrestrial vertebrates. All reptiles have scaly skin that can withstand dessication and lay eggs with hard shells, therefore they are not tied to the water like their relatives, the amphibians.
Are frogs mammals, reptiles or amphibians? Are frogs mammals, reptiles or amphibians? Frogs are amphibians. Amphibians are cold-blooded animals. They have backbones and can live both on land and in water. Are cows mammals, reptiles or amphibians? Are cows mammals, reptiles or amphibians? Cows are mammals. Mammals have hair or fur. Are snakes mammals, reptiles or amphibians? Are snakes mammals, reptiles or amphibians? Snakes are reptiles. Reptiles are cold-blooded animals. Most reptiles lay eggs, and all have scales on their bodies. Are lizards mammals, reptiles or amphibians? Are lizards mammals, reptiles or amphibians? Lizard
1 Reptiles only breathe air through their lungs. 2  Amphibians are born breathing with gills until they develop lungs later in life when they are older. 3  Reptiles lay eggs that have a tough, leathery shell. 4  Amphibian’s eggs are soft and need to be laid in water or in damp places. A few rules for being able to tell if something is an amphibian or a reptile are as follows: 1  Reptiles have scales, whether they are large, small, rough, smooth, etc. 2  This protective layer helps them conserve water and has also allowed them to spread across land in a way that amphibians are incapable of.