Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Fort Sumter was one of two federal ports in the southern United States. Soon after the election of 1860 seven southern states succeeded from the Union. President Lincoln declared that the Union would hold on to these two ports after the succession. 
It all began at Fort Sumter. On December 20, 1860, South Carolina seceded from the Union. Five days later, 68 federal troops stationed in Charleston, South Carolina, withdrew to Fort Sumter, an island in Charleston Harbor. The North considered the fort to be the property of the United States government.
The Battle of Fort Sumter (April 12–14, 1861) was the bombardment and surrender of Fort Sumter, near Charleston, South Carolina, that started the American Civil War. 
The Battle of Fort Sumter marked the beginning of the Civil War, it  was the first official battle. Fort Sumter was a Union Fort. But,  Confederate troops wanted to seize … it, as they had with other Union  forts. They asked commanders at Fort Sumter to surrender, but they  wouldn't. 
(Answer #2). The significance of Fort Sumter is that it is where the Civil War essentially started. When the Union tried to resupply the fort and the South fired on the fort, the war was inevitable. Fort Sumter was a fort in the harbor of Charleston, SC. Even after South Carolina seceded from the Union, Pres. Fort Sumter, located in Charleston, South Carolina was one of two federal ports in the southern United States. Soon after the election of 1860 seven southern states succeeded from the Union. President Lincoln declared that the Union would hold on to these two ports after the succession
Introduction. Fort Sumter is an island fortification located in Charleston Harbor, South Carolina. Originally constructed in 1829 as a coastal garrison, Fort Sumter is most famous for being the site of the first shots of the Civil War (1861-65). Construction of Fort Sumter was still underway when South Carolina seceded from the Union on December 20, 1860. Despite Charleston’s position as a major port, at the time only two companies of federal troops guarded the harbor.
On April 12, 1861, General P.G.T. Beauregard, in command of the Confederate forces around Charleston Harbor, opened fire on the Union garrison holding Fort Sumter. At 2:30pm on April 13 Major Robert Anderson, garrison commander, surrendered the fort and was evacuated the next day. 
Fort Sumter is a sea fort located in Charleston Harbor, South Carolina, and notable for two historic battles of the American Civil War. It was one of a number of special forts planned after the War of 1812, combining high walls and heavy masonry, and classified as Third System, as a grade of structural integrity. The First Battle of Fort Sumter opened on 12 April 1861, when Confederate artillery fired on the Union garrison. These were the first shots of the war, and continued all day, watched by many civilians in a celebratory spirit.