As a dietitian, I'm often asked to explain the difference between simple and complex carbohydrates. While most people have heard that complex carbohydrates are better for you than simple carbohydrates, what's often unclear is how the two differ, and why the differences between the two affect your health. Since complex carbohydrates come from plant-based foods, we know that those foods also contain a plethora of beneficial nutrients in addition to their carbs, including vitamins, minerals and antioxidants. The complex carbs are broken down into simple sugars.
Carbohydrates are present in food in the form of starch, sugar and fiber. A carbohydrate is a molecule containing carbon, oxygen and hydrogen, and can be either simple or complex. Both simple and complex carbohydrates can be healthy food options. Simple carbohydrates are monosaccharides and disaccharides. Carbohydrates are present in varying amounts in most of the foods you eat including fruits, vegetables, grains, beans, legumes, milk and milk products, and foods containing added sugar such as candy, soda and other sweets.
A carbohydrate characterised by chemical complexity and multiple-side chains of glycogen and fibre; complex-carbohydrate-rich foods include whole grains, brown bread, brown rice, vegetables and beans. a compound of carbon, hydrogen and oxygen, the latter two usually in the proportions of water (CH 2 O) n. They are classified into mono-, di-, tri-, poly-and heterosaccharides. Carbohydrates in food are an important and immediate source of energy for the body; 1 gram of carbohydrate yields 3.75 calories (16 kilojoules). Carbohydrates may be stored in the body as glycogen for future use. If they are eaten in excessive amounts they are converted to and stored as fat. Rapid ingestion of very large amounts in ruminants and horses causes carbohydrate engorgement. complex carbohydrate.
n.pl polysaccharides; nutritional compounds composed of multiple monosaccharide (simple sugar) building blocks. Complex carbohydrates include starches, glycogen, and cellulose. 
Medical Definition of COMPLEX CARBOHYDRATE. : a polysaccharide (as starch or cellulose) consisting of usually hundreds or thousands of monosaccharide units; also: a food (as rice or pasta) composed primarily of such polysaccharides. ADVERTISEMENT. noun.
While the scientific nomenclature of carbohydrates is complex, the names of the monosaccharides and disaccharides very often end in the suffix-ose. For example, grape sugar is the monosaccharide glucose, cane sugar is the disaccharide sucrose and milk sugar is the disaccharide lactose (see illustration). Carbohydrates perform numerous roles in living organisms.
In food science and in many informal contexts, the term carbohydrate often means any food that is particularly rich in the complex carbohydrate starch (such as cereals, bread and pasta) or simple carbohydrates, such as sugar (found in candy, jams, and desserts). For example, grape sugar is the monosaccharide glucose, cane sugar is the disaccharide sucrose and milk sugar is the disaccharide lactose (see illustration). Carbohydrates perform numerous roles in living organisms.
noun. Bread is a source of carbohydrates. Bread is a source of carbohydrates. The definition of a carbohydrate is an organic compound that occurs in living tissues or food and that can be broken down into energy by people or animals.
Your diet is made up of three macronutrients: carbohydrates, protein and fat. Carbohydrates are present in varying amounts in most of the foods you eat including fruits, vegetables, grains, beans, legumes, milk and milk products, and foods containing added sugar such as candy, soda and other sweets.