Commonly called Tennis leg, a tear or rupture of the plantaris involves the plantaris muscle and possibly the medial head or inside of the gastrocnemius muscle which is the larger of the two calf muscle. Injuries are usually the result of a sudden muscular action such as reaching out for a tennis shot. Unless associated with bony injury, x-rays of the area will not be useful. Injury to the plantaris muscle can present with similar clinical features to conditions like deep vein thrombosis, rupture of Baker's cyst, and tumors. An MRI is accurate in differentiating and characterizing plantaris muscle injury.
The special highlight of plantaris muscle is its muscle belly which is small and thin. Also present is a thin yet long tubular tendon that makes up some part of the posterosuperficial compartment of calf. Along with gastrocnemius and soleus, in group they are termed as triceps surae muscle. An injury to this muscle structure can lead to a very painful calf. The Plantaris muscle is small in size but is one of the important lower limb muscles. Plantaris muscle is very small muscle located along the posterior part of the leg and is a part of calf’s postersuperficial compartment.
The Plantaris muscle is a thin muscle in the back of the lower leg, which attaches just above the knee on the outside, passes down the back of the calf and inserts on to the heel bone. It's function is to assist the larger calf muscles in plantar flexing the ankle or pointing the foot down. Tennis Leg. Tennis leg is a general term used to describe pain in the leg caused by a tear of the inner head of the big calf muscle, the plantaris muscle or sometimes both.
It is composed of a thin muscle belly and a long thin tendon. While not as thick as the achilles tendon, the plantaris tendon (which tends to be between 30 to 45 cm in length) is the longest tendon in the human body. Not including the tendon, the plantaris muscle is approximately 5-10 cm long and is absent in 8-12% of the population. It is one of the plantar flexors in the posterior compartment of the leg, along with the gastrocnemius and soleus muscles. The plantaris muscle arises from the inferior part of the lateral supracondylar ridge of the femur at a position slightly superior to the origin of the lateral head of gastrocnemius. It passes posterior to the knee joint in an inferomedial direction and becomes tendinous distally to insert into the Achilles tendon
Tennis leg is a tear or rupture of the plantaris muscle and possibly the medial head or inside of the gastrocnemius muscle which is the larger of the two calf muscles. Tennis Leg. Tennis leg is a general term used to describe pain in the leg caused by a tear of the inner head of the big calf muscle, the plantaris muscle or sometimes both.
Main Image: The plantaris muscle is a tapering down pencil sized fine tendon which runs beneath the gastrocnemius and soleus muscles and is attached to the Achilles tendon or to the medial side of the tubercle of the calcaneus. An injury to this muscle structure can lead to a very painful calf. The Plantaris muscle is small in size but is one of the important lower limb muscles. Plantaris muscle is very small muscle located along the posterior part of the leg and is a part of calf’s postersuperficial compartment.
Anatomy. The plantaris muscle is a fine rope like tendon running next to the larger Achilles Tendon. It’s function is to work with the Achilles to flex the ankle and knee joint by extending from the outside (lateral) back of the femur (allowing you to stand on your toes or point your foot). Unless associated with bony injury, x-rays of the area will not be useful. Injury to the plantaris muscle can present with similar clinical features to conditions like deep vein thrombosis, rupture of Baker's cyst, and tumors. An MRI is accurate in differentiating and characterizing plantaris muscle injury.