Phosphocreatine, also known as creatine phosphate (CP) or PCr (Pcr), is a phosphorylated creatine molecule that serves as a rapidly mobilizable reserve of high-energy phosphates in skeletal muscle and the brain. 
· This system can prevent energy depletion by rapidly forming ATP. · This process is anaerobic. · Occurs in cytosol of the cell. · Provides energy (ATP) for only a few seconds (3-15 s) during intense muscular effort. · 1 Mol of ATP is produced per 1 mol of phosphocreatine (Pcr).
Since this process does not need oxygen to resynthesize ATP, it is anaerobic, or oxygen-independent. As the fastest way to resynthesize ATP, the phosphagen system is the predominant energy system used for all-out exercise lasting up to about 10 seconds. However, since there is a limited amount of stored CP and ATP in skeletal muscles, fatigue occurs rapidly. 2
The ATP-PCr System. ATP and creatine phosphate (also called phosphocreatine or PCr for short) make up the ATP-PCr system. PCr is broken down releasing a phosphate and energy, which is then used to rebuild ATP. Bioenergetics... or the study of energy flow through living systems is usually one of the first chapters in any good exercise physiology text. But the current model of human energy systems is being challenged... Recent research and practical experience expose its limitations, in particular with regard to fatigue.
The ATP-PC System. If you train any of your clients at high intensity you must understand how this energy system works. Here's a short(ish) explanation... As the name suggests the ATP-PC system consists of adenosine triphosphate (ATP) and phosphocreatine (PC). This energy system provides immediate energy through the breakdown of these stored high energy phosphates. If this energy system is 'fully stocked' it will provide energy for maximal intensity, short duration exercise for between10-15 seconds before it fatigues. There are only a few steps involved in the ATP-PC which is why it provides energy so quickly. S teps of the ATP-PC system: 1. Initially ATP stored in the myosin cross-bridges (microscopic contractile parts of muscle) is broken down to release energy for muscle contraction.
Search. Known also as immediate energy system, phosphagen system, and alactic anaerobic system, the ATP – PCr system is the main energy provider for a high intensity exercise of short duration up to 10 seconds, for example lifting a weight, swinging a golf club, doing a push – up, and throwing a hammer. ATP (adenosine triphosphate) is the primary energy currency of the body and when hydrolyzed, it releases a lot of energy that results in muscle contraction and protein synthesis. In fact, ATP is the stored form of energy readily available for the body to produce heat and energy when reacting with water.
Understanding energy systems underpins the study of exercise and the effect it has on the human body. Bioenergetics... or the study of energy flow through living systems is usually one of the first chapters in any good exercise physiology text. But the current model of human energy systems is being challenged... Recent research and practical experience expose its limitations, in particular with regard to fatigue.
ATP-PCr en·er·gy system. Immediate energy sources stored in skeletal muscle; cleavage of phosphocreatine supplies phosphate to replenish adenosine triphosphate; used in short duration activities (e.g., sprinting). ATP-PCr energy system | definition of ATP-PCr energy system by Medical dictionary.
Think of the ATP-PC system as the V8 of your energy systems – it provides you with the most 'power' because it produces ATP more quickly than any other system and because of this it fuels all very high intensity activities. It's downfall however is that it burns out very quickly. There are only a few steps involved in the ATP-PC which is why it provides energy so quickly. S teps of the ATP-PC system: 1. Initially ATP stored in the myosin cross-bridges (microscopic contractile parts of muscle) is broken down to release energy for muscle contraction.