Eukaryotic cells contain membrane-bound organelles, such as the nucleus, while prokaryotic cells do not. Differences in cellular structure of prokaryotes and eukaryotes include the presence of mitochondria and chloroplasts, the cell wall, and the structure of chromosomal DNA. 
No-although they differ slightly, both prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells have a cell membrane. The main difference is that eukaryotic cells have a nucleus and membrane-boun … d organelles. Prokaryotic cells have neither of these. Eukaryotic cells … , are more complex cells, with membrane bound organisms and a membrane bound nucleus. While prokaryotic cells are more simplistic and act as the whole organisms, in cases such as bacteria.
The Plasma (Cytoplasmic) Membrane. Like the prokaryotic plasma membrane, the eukaryotic plasma membrane is a phospholipid bilayer containing proteins. Eukaryotic plasma membranes contain carbohydrates attached to the proteins and sterols not found in prokaryotic cells (except Mycoplasma bacteria). Cytoplasm. The cytoplasm of eukaryotic cells includes everything inside the plasma membrane and external to the nucleus. The chemical characteristics of the cytoplasm of eukaryotic cells resemble those of the cytoplasm of prokaryotic cells.
Organelles are specialized membrane-enclosed structures in the cytoplasm of eukaryotic cells. The nucleus, which contains DNA in the form of chromosomes, is the most characteristic eukaryotic organelle. The nuclear envelope is connected to a system of membranes in the; cytoplasm called the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). Cytoplasm. The cytoplasm of eukaryotic cells includes everything inside the plasma membrane and external to the nucleus. The chemical characteristics of the cytoplasm of eukaryotic cells resemble those of the cytoplasm of pro
Plasma Membrane. All living cells, prokaryotic and eukaryotic, have a plasma membrane that encloses their contents and serves as a semi-porous barrier to the outside environment. The membrane acts as a boundary, holding the cell constituents together and keeping other substances from entering. 
Some prokaryotic cells also have other structures like the cell wall, pili (singular pillus), and flagella (singular flagellum). Each of these structures and cellular components plays a critical role in the growth, survival, and reproduction of prokaryotic cells. Prokaryotic cells can have multiple plasma membranes. All prokaryotic cells contain large quantities of genetic material in the form of DNA and RNA. Because prokaryotic cells, by definition, do not have a nucleus, the single large circular strand of DNA containing most of the genes needed for cell growth, survival, and reproduction is found in the cytoplasm.
With the exception of the mycoplasmas, the only bacteria that lack a cell wall, prokaryotic membranes lack sterols (def). Many bacteria, however, do contain sterol-like molecules called hopanoids. Like the sterols found in eukaryotic cell membranes, the hopanoids most likely stabilize the bacterial cytoplasmic membrane. The cytoplasmic membrane, also called a cell membrane or plasma membrane, is about 7 nanometers (nm; 1/1,000,000,000 m) thick. It lies internal to the cell wall and encloses the cytoplasm of the bacterium (see Fig.
Prokaryotic Cell Structure. Prokaryotic cells are not as complex as eukaryotic cells. They have no true nucleus as the DNA is not contained within a membrane or separated from the rest of the cell, but is coiled up in a region of the cytoplasm called the nucleoid. Prokaryotic organisms have varying cell shapes. The most common bacteria shapes are spherical, rod-shaped, and spiral.
Prokaryotes known as  gram-negative bacteria , for example, often have two plasma membranes with a space between them known as the periplasm. As in all cells, the plasma membrane in prokaryotic cells is responsible for controlling what gets into and out of the cell. A series of proteins stuck in the membrane (poor fellas) also aid prokaryotic cells in communicating with the surrounding environment. All prokaryotic cells contain large quantities of genetic material in the form of DNA and RNA. Because prokaryotic cells, by definition, do not have a nucleus, the single large circular strand of DNA containing most of the genes needed for cell growth, survival, and reproduction is found in the cytoplasm.