The water is coming from the defrost system. Your defrost system drains water through a tube into a pan at the bottom of the refrigerator, where it evaporates. This tube could be clogged, or the pan could be ajar and the tube spills the water on the floor instead of the pan.
If the water is coming from the back of the refrigerator its most likely from the icemaker water valve. To check this you have to remove the back cover and inspect the valve. If it’s leaking replace it. But it might not leak unless its running water.
It is not common, but occasionally the drain pan at the bottom of the refrigerator can develop a crack that allows water to leak. It is normal for a small amount of water to accumulate in the drain pan, but it is not normal for it to escape the pan.
If adjusting the legs doesn’t stop water from leaking, then you have to clear the drain hole. It gets clogged with food particles: Locate the drain tubes at the rear of the refrigerator or freezer. Push a small plastic tube or a pipe cleaner through the tubes. Pour a mild solution of soapy water and ammonia down the drain tube to kill bacteria. If you have a turkey baster or syringe, use it to squeeze water into the hole.
Water (actually condensation) is supposed to run from inside the refrigerator into a drain hole, and then into a drip pan underneath, where it evaporates. If the refrigerator is completely level or tipped slightly forward, the water may not be able to flow into the drain.
A blocked defrost drain is one of the most common causes of water leaking from your refrigerator and is a good place to start troubleshooting. The small drain opening is easily blocked by food particles or ice, preventing water that accumulated during the defrost cycle from draining to the pan.
Check the drain pan under the refrigerator, on the left side, by removing the front grill. If the soapy water hasn’t drained into it, you still have a problem. Go to Step 6. Working inside the refrigerator, push the tube or pipe cleaner into and through the drain tube. Flush the hole with water again.
Clogged Drain Causes Leaking Refrigerator. If it’s coming from the drain, ice will be build up around the drain. If you have a side-by-side refrigerator and the drain is stopped up, ice will build up in the bottom of the freezer and water will come out the door. To repair this is easy: first you get all the ice out.