Vancouver Island, located in British Columbia, Canada, is the largest Pacific island east of New Zealand. While the city of Vancouver stands on the North American mainland, Victoria, the capital city of British Columbia, is located on the island. Located near the centre of Vancouver Island in 2,500 square kilometres (965 sq mi) Strathcona Provincial Park, it is part of a group of peaks that include the only glaciers on the island, the largest of which is the Comox Glacier.
It is the largest island on the West Coast of North America, the world's 43rd largest island, Canada's 11th largest island, and Canada's second most populous island after the Island of Montreal. The Canada 2011 Census recorded a population of 759,366. Nearly half of that figure (344,630) live in Greater Victoria. Located near the centre of Vancouver Island in 2,500 square kilometres (965 sq mi) Strathcona Provincial Park, it is part of a group of peaks that include the only glaciers on the island, the largest of which is the Comox Glacier.
Vancouver Island is part of British Columbia, Canada. As well as the island itself, it is also a region which includes the Gulf Islands in the Strait of Georgia. It is often referred to by the locals as simply 'The Island'. Vancouver Island is the largest island off the west coast of North America at about 450km long and up to about 90km wide. It has a population of over 700,000 people, with a little less than half of those living in the Greater Victoria area. By ferry [edit]. The most common way to get to Vancouver Island is by BC Ferries [3] . There is regular ferry service from Tsawwassen (near Vancouver) to Swartz Bay (Near Victoria), Tsawwassen to Duke Point (near Nanaimo) and Horseshoe Bay (Near Vancouver) to Departure Bay (in Nanaimo).
Regions & Towns Admin 2015-02-17T14:53:59+00:00. Vancouver Island is located in the Pacific Northwest, off the southwest coast of mainland British Columbia. Most of Vancouver Island once looked as the north island still does today. Much of the remaining wilderness, such as Brooks Peninsula, a stubby 14-km long projection on the northwest coast of the island, has now been preserved.
Vancouver Island boasts the warmest climate in BC and Canada, along with the southern Gulf Islands that lie off the southeast coast of the island, the largest of which is Saltspring Island. Off the east coast of Central Vancouver Island are the Discovery Islands, the largest of which are Quadra Island and Cortes Island. Most of Vancouver Island once looked as the north island still does today. Much of the remaining wilderness, such as Brooks Peninsula, a stubby 14-km long projection on the northwest coast of the island, has now been preserved.
The Gulf Islands are the islands in the Strait of Georgia (also known as Salish Sea or the Gulf of Georgia), between Vancouver Island and the mainland of British Columbia, Canada. The larger populated islands are served by BC Ferries, which operates combined vehicle and passenger ferries between the Gulf Islands and to terminals near the major cities of Nanaimo and Victoria on Vancouver Island as well as Vancouver on the mainland.
Islands in the Strait of Georgia. Situated between Vancouver Island and the mainland of British Columbia, Georgia Strait boasts a number of large islands located between the Gulf Islands and the Discovery Islands. Most of Vancouver Island once looked as the north island still does today. Much of the remaining wilderness, such as Brooks Peninsula, a stubby 14-km long projection on the northwest coast of the island, has now been preserved.
The area has one of the warmest climates in Canada and since the mid-1990s has been mild enough in a few areas to grow subtropical Mediterranean crops such as olives and lemons. The island is 460 kilometres (290 mi) in length, 80 kilometres (50 mi) in width at its widest point, and 32,134 km 2 (12,407 sq mi) in area. Located near the centre of Vancouver Island in 2,500 square kilometres (965 sq mi) Strathcona Provincial Park, it is part of a group of peaks that include the only glaciers on the island, the largest of which is the Comox Glacier.
The city of Victoria is the capital of British Columbia, located on the southern tip of the island. Vancouver Island is divided into North Island, Central Island, South Island, the Pacific Rim (West Coast), Greater Victoria, and the Gulf & Discovery Islands. Most of Vancouver Island once looked as the north island still does today. Much of the remaining wilderness, such as Brooks Peninsula, a stubby 14-km long projection on the northwest coast of the island, has now been preserved.
Along with most of the southern Gulf Islands, plus various minor islands offshore from its southern end, the southern part of Vancouver Island is the only part of British Columbia (and of Western Canada) that lies south of the 49th Parallel. Located near the centre of Vancouver Island in 2,500 square kilometres (965 sq mi) Strathcona Provincial Park, it is part of a group of peaks that include the only glaciers on the island, the largest of which is the Comox Glacier.