Osedax is a genus of deep-sea siboglinid polychaetes, commonly called boneworms, zombie worms, or bone-eating worms. Osedax is Latin for bone-eating. The name alludes to how the worms bore into the bones of whale carcasses to reach enclosed lipids, on which they rely for sustenance. Scientists from the Monterey Bay Aquarium Research Institute using the submarine ROV Tiburon first discovered the genus in Monterey Bay, California, in February 2002. In late 2005, an experiment by Swedish marine biologists resulted in the discovery of a species of the worm in the North Sea off the west coast of Sweden. In the experiment, a minke whale carcass that had been washed ashore had been sunk to a depth of 120 m (390 ft) and monitored for several months.
Giant tube worms grow to over 2 metres long and inhabit the hot waters around hydrothermal vents on the Pacific Ocean bed. Like their cool water relatives, giant tube worms do not have a digestive tract. Their food is manufactured by bacteria that live symbiotically inside each worm's body. 
Comprehensive Description. The Pogonophora, or beard worms, live in thin tubes buried in sediments at ocean depths from 100 to 10,000 meters. The tubes are composed of chitin and scleroproteins secreted by the epidermis. Most pogonophorans are less than 1 mm in diameter, but 10 to 75 cm in length. The tubes may be 3 to 4 times the length of the worm.
The scientific name is Riftia pachyptila. It belongs to the following Kingdom: Animalia Phylum: Annelida Class: Polychaeta Order: Pogonophora Family: Siboglinidae Genus: Riftia Species: Riftia pachyptila. The tube worm looks like a long white tube with an odd bright red nail called a plume or a giant paintbrush. Inside the tube the body of the worm is colorless. The tube worm can grow up to nine feet long and can live 170 to 250 years. The tube worm’s red plume is food for fish, crabs, and other sea creatures. The tube worms white tubular home is made of a material called chitin
By examining genetic differences between annelids there is now a scientific consensus that Siboglinidae is a family within the order Polychaeta. The fossil record along with molecular clocks suggests the family has Mesozoic (250 mya - 66 mya) or Cenozoic (66 mya-recent) origins. Most siboglinids are less than 1 millimetre (0.04 in) in diameter but 10–75 centimetres (3.9–29.5 in) in length. They inhabit tubular structures composed of chitin and fixed to the bottom. The tubes are often clustered together in large colonies. The body is divided into four regio
Siboglinidae, also known as the beard worms, is a family of polychaete annelid worms whose members made up the former phyla Pogonophora (the giant tube worms) and Vestimentifera. They are composed of about 100 species of vermiform creatures and live in thin tubes buried in sediments at ocean depths from 100 to 10,000 m. Most siboglinids are less than 1 millimetre (0.04 in) in diameter but 10–75 centimetres (3.9–29.5 in) in length. They inhabit tubular structures composed of chitin and fixed to the bottom. The tubes are often clustered together in large colonies. The body is divided into four regions
He erected both a new genus, Siboglinum, and a new family, Siboglinidae, for this unusual gutless worm (Caullery 1914, cited in McHugh 1997 and Pleijel et al. 2009). In 1951, Siboglinum was placed by Ivanov in the then recognized phylum Pogonophora (Ivanov 1951, cited in Pleijel et al. 2009). 2009), but later recognized that the name Siboglinidae preceded their proposed name and should be used instead (Rouse and Fauchald 1997). McHugh (1997) also concluded that the pogonophorans (including the vestimentiferans) should be placed together within Caullery's family Siboglinidae. Pleijel et al
Osedax rubiplumus can spawn hundreds of oocytes at a time. The worms' endosymbionts, species of bacteria in the order Oceanospirillales, were not observed in the spawned oocytes, which suggests that they are acquired after the worms settle on the bones. In late 2005, an experiment by Swedish marine biologists resulted in the discovery of a species of the worm in the North Sea off the west coast of Sweden. In the experiment, a minke whale carcass that had been washed ashore had been sunk to a depth of 120 m (390 ft) and monitored for several months.