Graduate scholarships help students pay for college as they pursue graduate-level academic or professional degrees. Graduate students have a variety of options to reduce the cost of their degree, including fellowships, teaching assistantships, and even stipends.
Eligibility requirements for graduate scholarships can vary based on the source and type of scholarship. Many graduate scholarships focus on academic merit, financial need, institution alumni status, subject, industry, heritage, and more.
In most cases for graduate students, you financial need will not come into play as there are only non-need based federal programs for graduate students. If, however, you receive and outside scholarship that is only given to needy students, your financial need would be a factor.
You've decided that graduate school is the right next step for you. Now comes the hard part: how to pay for grad school. Our tips and tools help you explore your options for grad school financial aid, including scholarships, grants and loans.
Universities usually will not offer funding for master's, but you can probably get scholarships from diversity organizations. The decent PhD programs will fund their students while they work towards the degree; usually the funding comes with a TA-ship or GSR (you have to research or teach for the money).
While less common than undergraduate scholarships, scholarships for graduate students are available. Graduate students rely heavily on fellowships or assistantships-especially in high-need areas like nursing or teaching-but these aren’t available to everyone and don’t always cover a graduate student’s living expenses.
There are several different types of financial aid available to graduate students. If eligible, you can receive more than one type of aid. Most students get a combination of grants and loans. Some students may receive scholarships in addition to
Like a grant, students do not need to payback the money awarded in a scholarship. Scholarships can be awarded through your school or through private sources. Institutions offer various scholarships based on merit, talent, and/or need. Contact your school for a list of scholarships being offered to students. Private scholarships are offered through organizations or companies.