Nakazawa: Lupus, multiple sclerosis, type 1 diabetes and rheumatoid arthritis are just a few of the more common types of autoimmune disease, but in fact there are nearly a hundred other known autoimmune diseases. One in 12 people -- and one in 9 women -- has an autoimmune disease. That's nearly 24 million Americans. A Growing Autoimmune Patient Load, An Autoimmune-Disease Crisis in the Making. While epidemiological studies provide a global portrait of an autoimmune-disease crisis in the making, it is through patients' eyes that it takes on more personal meaning.
8 Clearly one of the challenges to the acceptance of bacterial agents as the cause of these autoimmune diseases has been that there is no universally observed association or one specific universally causative agent. This issue is addressed head on in research by Harkiolaki et al. However, patients suffering from disorders such as rheumatoid arthritis (RA), ankylosing spondylitis (AS), and autoimmune thyroiditis (i.e., Hashimoto's or Graves' disease) who visit a rheumatologist or endocrinologist do not routinely have stool analysis of their GI microbiota or food sensitivity testing performed.
Causes of Hypothyroidism. – Autoimmune thyroiditis, where the body’s own immune system attacks the thyroid gland, is the major cause of hypothyroidism. – A lack of iodine in the body. Iodine is necessary for the production of thyroid hormones, and iodine deficiency due to inadequate intake can lead to problems. 
alternatives treatment of disease read our e-book Special GoogleHealth Search THE AUTOIMMUNE EPIDEMIC Diseases a Growing Hazard By Donna Jackson Nakazawa. Autoimmune diseases -- a group of about 100 conditions in which the body's immune system turns on the body itself -- are reaching epidemic proportions. 
In his foreword to The Autoimmune Epidemic, Dr. Douglas Kerr, M.D., Ph.D. professor at Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, says that “there is no doubt that autoimmune diseases are on the rise and our increasing environmental exposure to toxins and chemicals is fueling the risk. The research is sound. But autoimmune disease isn’t just one condition. You’re probably familiar with the most common autoimmune diseases, like rheumatoid arthritis, lupus, multiple sclerosis, inflammatory bowel disease, type-1 diabetes, hypothyroidism, and psoriasis.
Donna calls the environmental toxins that are, in part, driving the autoimmune epidemic “autogens” — foreign compounds that create an “auto” reaction, a reaction against the self. The fact is, these toxins may be the most important cause of autoimmune diseases. But autoimmune disease isn’t just one condition. You’re probably familiar with the most common autoimmune diseases, like rheumatoid arthritis, lupus, multiple sclerosis, inflammatory bowel disease, type-1 diabetes, hypothyroidism, and psoriasis.
In the international medical world, the scientists who study autoimmune disease call this epidemic the global warming of women's health.. Yet the reality that the environment plays a major role in triggering these diseases hasn't yet trickled down to the rest of the population. A Growing Autoimmune Patient Load, An Autoimmune-Disease Crisis in the Making. While epidemiological studies provide a global portrait of an autoimmune-disease crisis in the making, it is through patients' eyes that it takes on more personal meaning.
Q&A with Donna Jackson Nakazawa, author of The Autoimmune Epidemic: Bodies Gone Haywire in a World out of Balance -- and the Cutting Edge Science that Promises Hope (Touchstone/Simon & Schuster, February 2008). A Growing Autoimmune Patient Load, An Autoimmune-Disease Crisis in the Making. While epidemiological studies provide a global portrait of an autoimmune-disease crisis in the making, it is through patients' eyes that it takes on more personal meaning.
The genesis of this article is as a follow-up to a presentation delivered at the 2011 American Association of Naturopathic Physicians (AANP) annual convention on the topic of autoimmune disease, which resulted in a substantial amount of inquiry and requests for further exploration of the topics presented. However, patients suffering from disorders such as rheumatoid arthritis (RA), ankylosing spondylitis (AS), and autoimmune thyroiditis (i.e., Hashimoto's or Graves' disease) who visit a rheumatologist or endocrinologist do not routinely have stool analysis of their GI microbiota or food sensitivity testing performed.