Los Angeles is poised to ban elephants from performing in circuses within its city limits, after pressure from animal welfare advocates who have for decades condemned the methods used to train and transport elephants as abusive and cruel. 
Greece: Nationwide ban on all animals in circuses. Hungary: Nationwide ban on the use of wild caught animals in circuses, the purchase and training of elephants and primates for circus performances and the purchase, training and use of CITES (Appendix 1) listed species in circuses. Chile: Local bans on the use of wild and domestic animals in circuses in the city of Santiago. Colombia: Nationwide ban on the use of wild animals in circuses; Local ban on the use of animals in circuses in the capital, Bogota. Costa Rica: Nationwide ban on the use of wild
Click here to see live footage of Ringling Brothers' mistreatment of elephants on You Tube (or click on video player below). To learn more about elephants, the Ringling Brothers and Barnum & Bailey Circus, and efforts to protect elephants from abuse keep reading. As described by several former Ringling Brothers employees, there is a culture of abuse at the circus that includes the constant use of bull hooks and other weapons on the elephants, and routine chaining while the elephants are transported throughout the country to perform.
The Greatest Show on Earth will soon be without elephants. Ringling Bros. announced Thursday it will gradually reduce the use of elephants in its shows, and all will be retired by 2018. It's the end of an era for the animal that Ringling calls a lifelong symbol of its circus. Elephants have for years played prominently in the circus' shows and its advertising. They triumphantly enter the ring, then perform a synchronized dance routine
RACHEL MARTIN, HOST: The greatest show on Earth will no longer feature one of its most iconic acts. Starting in 2018, elephants will not be performing in the Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey Circus. Elephants have drawn crowds from the very beginning, ever since an enterprising farmer encountered one of the first elephants to live in this country.
Asian Elephants, the elephant species most often used by circuses, are endangered in the wild, due to poaching, hunting, and the destruction of their natural habitat. They are listed as endangered under the Endangered Species Act, which prohibits anyone from killing, harming, or harassing them. As described by several former Ringling Brothers employees, there is a culture of abuse at the circus that includes the constant use of bull hooks and other weapons on the elephants, and routine chaining while the elephants are transported throughout the country to perform.
15 photos: Elephants in Ringling Bros. circus. A blind child in Chicago sits on the back of a kneeling elephant from the Ringling Brothers Circus in April 1917. Ringling Bros. announced Thursday, March 5, that it will gradually reduce the use of elephants in its shows, and all will be retired by 2018. Hide Caption.
Media caption Many animal rights activists have been protesting against the use of elephants in the circus. One of America's largest circus companies has said it will phase out the use of elephants in its shows. The Ringling Brothers and Barnum & Bailey Circus told that it plans to stop using the animals by 2018. It said growing public concern about how the animals are treated led to the decision. The company's 43 elephants will live at an animal conservation centre in Florida. The circus will continue to use other animals-such as lions, tigers, horses, camels, and dogs-in its performances. In recent years, some cities and counties have passed laws banning the use of elephants for entertainment, which has complicated the show's tours, company president Kenneth Feld
There were fears that only big cats and elephants would be banned from travelling circuses after MPs’ recommendations early this summer. But now there has been confirmation from Government ministers that a ban on the use of all wild animals in circuses in England will go ahead by the end of 2015. 
Wild animals in circuses. We’re campaigning against the use of wild animals in circuses and lobbying the Westminster and Welsh governments to ban their use in England and Wales, as other countries have already done. The government in Westminster announced a ban in March 2012 on wild animals in circuses in England, with a licensing scheme in the interim. We are seriously concerned about the lack of firm commitment to a timetable for implementing a ban.