Our salary employees are paid a agreed amount each week. our payroll processor is telling us that we are required to submit hours for our salary personnel as we do for our hourly/non-exempt employees. We don't require salary/exempt employees to clock in so they could work more or less than 40 hours per week. We have a manager stating we violate the law by telling the payroll processor to use 40 hours for all exempt employees so they rate and pay amount is consistent every week. I was employed before the switch as a supervisors with a set salary with a schedule to abide by. After the change I was listed as a exempt employee and schedule changed from mandatory 6 days at 11 hrs a day, to 5 11hr days with a sixth day of 3 hrs.
State of California Exempt Salary Schedule July 2015 3  Cash compensation may be authorized and the rate of cash compensation paid for overtime shall be one and one-half times the hourly equivalent of the employee's salary as of the time the overtime was worked. State of California Exempt Salary Schedule July 2015 47 (m) In addition, the Attorney General may appoint or employ six deputies or employees, the Public Utilities Commission may appoint or employ one deputy or employee, and the Legislative Council may appoint or employ two deputies or employees.
Our hourly employees usually work 40 hours and when they vant to take leave, they can use a combination of sick or vacation hours to equal the 40 hours. As a salary worker, we normally work 45 - 50 hours a week and when we want to take a day of leave we must use a full 8 hour incriment of vacation time only. I was employed before the switch as a supervisors with a set salary with a schedule to abide by. After the change I was listed as a exempt employee and schedule changed from mandatory 6 days at 11 hrs a day, to 5 11hr days with a sixth day of 3 hrs.
Benefits. The initial printing of this City of Seattle Salary Schedule and Compensation Plan includes 2014 general wage rates reflecting increases authorized for non-represented and represented payroll titles at the time of publication of July 2, 2014. 
The employee's gross wages for the week, including overtime, would be $550 (the $500 salary plus $50 in overtime pay). Wisconsin law allows this method of overtime compensation for salaried, non-exempt employees, but federal law may not. Since salary constitutes wages at straight time for all hours worked, the employer owes an additional half-time for the hours in excess of 40 in a week. An example follows: Example: A non-exempt employee is paid a salary of $500 per week, and works 50 hours in a given week. Since the agreement is just that the employee will be paid a $500 salary, that sum would cover any number of hours worked. The regular rate for this week is the salary ($500) divided by the 50 hours worked, or $10.00
To be exempt, the employee must meet certain requirements regarding job duties and -- excluding outside sales employees and teachers -- must be paid on a salary basis. Exempt employees must receive a salary of at least $455 per week. An exempt computer employee must receive a salary of $455 per week or at least $27.63 per hour. 
Minimum Salary Requirements. The minimum compensation for a salary basis employee is $455 per week. If you pay any of your salaried employees on a salary or fee basis, the amount has to equal or exceed $455 per week. The minimum weekly salary for your computer-related salaried employee is also $455 per week. If she works a standard schedule of less than 40 hours per week, then you must make sure that her hourly compensation rate is not less than $27.63 per hour. Your salaried employees must receive a set amount of compensation each pay period. Salaried employees who are exempt from the FLSA guidelines fall into the following exemption categories: administrative staff, executives, outside sales people and professional staff.
A Salaried Employee is paid annually. Salaried employees are usually supervisory, managerial, or professional employees who work on an annual basis and are not paid an hourly rate. Salaried employees are typically considered to be exempt from overtime pay. That is, they work to fulfill the duties of the job. 