Lorena is a very popular first name for females (#466 out of 4276, Top 11%) and a slightly less popular surname for all people (#113519 out of 150436, Top 75%). (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the birth name popularity of Lorena for girls. Lorena /lore-na/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced lor-EEN-ah, lor-AY-nah. It is of Latin origin, and the meaning of Lorena is laurel. Variant of Laura or Lora. Kreatif forms: Leorena, Liarena, Lirena
Meaning of Lorena. English name. In English, the name Lorena means-Variant of Laura or Lora referring to the laurel tree or sweet bay tree symbolic of honor and victory.. Other origins for the name Lorena include-English, Latin-American.The name Lorena is most often used as a girl name or female name. English Name Meaning-Variant of Laura or Lora referring to the laurel tree or sweet bay tree symbolic of honor and victory.
Meanings and history of the name Lorena: | Edit. The only information I've found on it is that it is derived from the name Laurel meaning the plant used to make roman laurel crowns. Comments and insights on the name Lorena: | Edit. My name is Lorena and its pronounced lor-E-na but everyone always pronounces it loraina, which is not the way its spelled.
Lorena is a particularly secretive and reserved woman who is surrounded by an air of mystery. An introverted individual, she is inclined to much soul searching and is sometimes bothered by worry and anxiety. Very often, she is fascinated by philosophy, spirituality and metaphysics. 
English Meaning: The name Lorena is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Lorena is: or Lora referring to the laurel tree or sweet bay tree symbolic of honor and victory. American Meaning: The name Lorena is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Lorena is: or Lora referring to the laurel tree or sweet bay tree symbolic of honor and victory. Latin Meaning: The name Lorena is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Lorena is: Laurel. The laurel tree or sweet bay tree symbolic of honor and victory.
Meaning of Lorena. Latin-American name. In Latin-American, the name Lorena means-crowned with laurel. Other origins for the name Lorena include-Latin-American, English.The name Lorena is most often used as a girl name or female name. Latin-American Name Meaning-crowned with laurel. Origin-Latin-America. 
In English, the name Lorena means-Variant of Laura or Lora referring to the laurel tree or sweet bay tree symbolic of honor and victory.. English Name Meaning
USAGE: English. Meaning & History. Latinized form of LAUREN. This name was first brought to public attention in America by the song 'Lorena' (1856), written by Joseph Webster, who was said to have created the name as an anagram of LENORE (from the character in Poe's poem 'The Raven'). Expand Name Links. Related Names.