Crackers. Foods high in starch — such as saltines, bread, and toast — help absorb stomach acids and settle a queasy stomach. Keep a handful of crackers on your nightstand; eating a few before you get out of bed may help ease nausea in the morning. Try applesauce or apple juice if you're having trouble digesting solid food. 1  Crackers
In terms of actual foods, there are several foods that may help to easy nausea & vomiting. The “BRAT” diet – consisting of bananas, rice, applesauce, and toast – contains bland foods that help to absorb stomach acids and to ease nausea and vomiting. Some of the best foods that help ease nausea & vomiting are not actually foods, they are beverages. Making sure that you drink enough liquids, especially clear liquids such as water, will keep you hydrated. Dehydration can lead to nausea & vomiting, and is one of the most common causes of nausea &
Other bland foods, such as a plain baked potato or a bowl of chicken broth, might also alleviate your nausea. Try cold foods such as salads, sandwiches, raw vegetables and fruit. Watermelon and lemons are top fruit choices for easing the nausea associated with morning sickness. Many pregnant women experience nausea throughout the day. Add certain foods to your pregnancy diet to curb nausea and provide your unborn baby with nutrients essential for healthy growth and development.
You can add other bland foods to the BRAT diet. For example, you can try saltine crackers, boiled potatoes or clear soups. Don’t start eating dairy products and sugary or fatty foods right away. These foods may trigger nausea or lead to more diarrhea. The BRAT diet is a bland-food diet that is often recommended for adults and children. BRAT stands for B ananas, R ice, A pplesauce and T oast. The BRAT diet can help you recover from an upset stomach or diarrhea for the following reasons: 1  It includes “binding” foods.
Avoid foods or smells that make your nausea worse, and avoid being in warm places, which can increase your nausea. In the Evening: For dinner avoid spicy, greasy foods. Prepare foods that are bland and do not have a strong odor. 
If you have recently had an upset stomach or diarrhea, your doctor may suggest that you limit your diet to bland foods that won’t irritate your stomach. The BRAT diet is a bland-food diet that is often recommended for adults and children. BRAT stands for B ananas, R ice, A pplesauce and T oast. The BRAT diet can help you recover from an upset stomach or diarrhea for the following reasons: 1  It includes “binding” foods. 2  These are low-fiber foods that can help make your stools firmer. 3  It includes bananas, which are high in potassium and help replace nutrients your body has lost because of vomiting or diarrhea
Nausea is a feeling of queasiness in the stomach and may be followed by the urge to vomit. Nausea and vomiting can be caused by various conditions, such as cancer or cancer treatments, other diseases and their treatments, illness, pregnancy, or even motion sickness. 1 Select the same type of foods suggested for controlling nausea and eat small amounts frequently instead of large amounts at one time. 2  If vomiting ceases after following the preceding tips, you should be able to resume your regular diet.
A little fiber goes a long way toward clearing nausea-inducing chemicals out of your system — but too much at one time can make you feel even worse. Throughout the day, snack on such fiber-rich foods as a whole apple (Gala apples are a good choice) and crunchy raw vegetables. Try applesauce or apple juice if you're having trouble digesting solid food. 1  Crackers Foods high in starch — such as saltines, bread, and toast — help absorb stomach acids and settle a queasy stomach.
1 Ginger Capsules of powdered ginger have been found to reduce nausea and vomiting. 2  You could also try a cup of ginger tea, a glass of ginger ale (some people swear it works better if it's flat), a few gingersnap cookies, or a piece of ginger candy. 3  Pickled ginger, the kind that usually comes with sushi, may also help. Try applesauce or apple juice if you're having trouble digesting solid food. 1  Crackers Foods high in starch — such as saltines, bread, and toast — help absorb stomach acids and settle a queasy stomach.