They are omnivorous, as they eat both greens and insects. Bearded dragons are one of the most popular of reptile pets. Please make sure to check out the wealth of information on this site to help you take the best care of your bearded dragon as possible. Bearded dragons are technically known as called Pogona Vitticeps.
Enclosure: Bearded dragons (Pogona vitticeps) are big lizards, so they need fairly large enclosures. A good enclosure for an adult bearded dragon is a glass reptile tank that is approximately 36 inches long by 16 inches wide by 17 inches deep (or about 40 gallons). A sliding screen top is also needed
Bearded dragons are omnivores, which mean they will eat both insects and vegetables. Your bearded dragon's diet will depend on his/her age. Younger bearded dragons will eat 80% insects and 20% vegetables, while adult bearded dragons will eat 20% insects and 80% vegetables. When you feed your bearded dragon you will need to make sure that none of the food is wider than the gap between his/her eyes. Pet Stores-Pet stores are probably the easiest and most convenient place to get a bearded dragon. However, pet stores generally are expensive and don't have the variety of bearded dragon colors Learn about the different types of colors bearded dragons can be. that are available in other places.
You'll need a source of heat that maintains temperatures within the enclosure at a level comfortable for the bearded dragon. Dragons like temperatures between 78 and 88 F (25 to 31 C) during the day, and evening temperatures between 70 and 79 F (21 and 26 C). Make sure the habitat is an adequate size. Beardies can grow up to 2 feet (61 cm), move fast, and like to climb, so they need plenty of space in their home. For young dragons, a 10 gallon (39 L) tank is adequate, but this will last them only for a few months, as they grow quickly.
Bearded dragons, or beardies, tend to be good-natured companions, whose natural curiosity and apparent enjoyment of human company make them a popular pet. They are native to parts of Australia and are now widely available in pet stores and from breeders. Make sure the habitat is an adequate size. Beardies can grow up to 2 feet (61 cm), move fast, and like to climb, so they need plenty of space in their home. For young dragons, a 10 gallon (39 L) tank is adequate, but this will last them only for a few months, as they grow quickly.
When your beardie stops eating, stop offering. Young bearded dragons can eat anywhere from 20-60 pinhead crickets a day. 1  Provide hatchlings with a diet of small insects. 2  If you are caring for a very young bearded dragon, you'll need to give it very small prey, such as pinhead crickets and tiny, freshly molted worms. Make sure the habitat is an adequate size. Beardies can grow up to 2 feet (61 cm), move fast, and like to climb, so they need plenty of space in their home. For young dragons, a 10 gallon (39 L) tank is adequate, but this will last them only for a few months, as they grow quickly.
Bearded Dragons are lizards, in the genus Pogona, that are native to Australia. Bearded Dragons are often kept as exotic pets, especially the Inland Bearded Dragon (species Pogona vitticeps). These pets are also affectionately called Beardies by those who breed or raise them. They are a popular breed among children, because of their friendly and calm nature. A significant portion of the Bearded Dragon's diet may consist of leafy greens. Dragons enjoy many types of readily available greens, including: collard greens, spring greens, escarole, turnip greens, mustard greens, romaine lettuce, dandelion greens, parsley, and carrot tops.
Bearded Dragon Names. Bearded dragons are way too cool of a pet to have a boring name. This is why we came up with over 100 cool names for bearded dragons including dragon names from movies, books, and TV shows.
Continued from page 1. Tank Size. For a single bearded dragon a bare minimum of a 40 gallon tank will be necessary, but bigger is definitely better (55 gallon or larger is better). A secure screen top cover will also be necessary. Substrate. Substrate is a hotly debated area of bearded dragon care. 