Gellan Gum is used as an additive for a number of purposes. For instance, it is used in different food items. Apart from that, its usage in the chemical industry cannot be ignored as well. In case of food products, it is used to improve the energy levels in the human body and the flexibility level of the muscles. 
Carob gum is a galactomannan vegetable gum extracted from the seeds of the Carob tree, Ceratonia siliqua. Used in low-fat foods, cookies and biscuits, baked goods, ice-cream, dried fruit, liqueurs and vodkas, soft drinks, confectionary, marshmallows, toothpastes, and many more. Cassia gum is a food additive made from the endosperm of Senna obtusifolia (also called Cassia obtusifolia or Cassia tora). It is used as a thickener and gelling agent. Cassia gum is currently (mid-2009) being used mainly in pet food applications.
Natural gums are polysaccharides of natural origin, capable of causing a large increase in a solution’s viscosity, even at small concentrations. In the food industry they are used as thickening agents, gelling agents, emulsifying agents, and stabilizers. In other industries, they are also used as adhesives, binding agents, crystal inhibitors, clarifying agents, encapsulating agents, flocculating agents, swelling agents, foam stabilizers, etc. Most often these gums are found in the woody elements of plants or in seed coatings.
Locust Bean Gum. Locust bean gum, also known as carob bean gum, is derived from the seeds of the carob tree. During a two-year animal study, rats were given locust bean gum as 5% of their diet, and no carcinogenic or other toxic effects were observed. (12). Tara Gum. Like guar gum and locust bean gum, tara gum is derived from the endosperm of a legume. Tara gum is a relatively new food additive so there’s less data on it, but it has been thoroughly studied for toxic effects in animals.
…Gellan Gum has been listed as an allowable ingredient for use in organic foods and beverages by the USDA National Organic Program (NOP) under the guidelines established by the National Organic Standards Board (NOSB). Aha! If it’s allowable in organic foods, chances are, this gellan stuff is pretty good stuff. If you want to get a bit more scientific, Gellan is a water-soluble polysaccharide made by fermenting the microbe Sphingomonas elodea. The result is an off-white powder that some companies use in place of agar agar as a vegan/vegetarian gelling agent for things like gummy candies. Speaking of gummy candies!
For the camera, see Olympus E-410. Locust bean gum (LBG, also known as carob gum, carob bean gum, carobin, E410) is a thickening agent and a gelling agent used in food technology. Locust bean gum is a galactomannan vegetable gum extracted from the seeds of the carob tree, mostly found in the Mediterranean region. The long pods that grow on the tree are used to make this gum. The pods are kibbled to separate the seed from the pulp. Locust bean gum (LBG, also known as carob gum, carob bean gum, carobin, E410) is a thickening agent and a gelling agent used in food technology
Quick Overview. Gellan gum (type F) has the cleanest flavour with a very small use ratio. It also works over the entire pH range, slices cleanly and withstands temperatures of 90 degrees C.... Gellan gum has the cleanest flavour with a very small use ratio. It also works over the entire pH range, slices cleanly and withstands temperatures of 90 degrees C. Used to make a water gels. Whereas other gelling agents supply viscosity gellan gum supplies a solid gel. 
A product information sheet provided to The VRG by CP Kelco describes gellan gum as “suitable” for those on vegetarian or vegan diets. Food grade and personal care gellan gum products manufactured by this company are certified kosher and halal. We were told on the phone by a customer service specialist that gellan gum “…is produced by bacterial fermentation…on corn syrup…it is a non-GMO product.” A statement provided to us by CP Kelco reads in part: