Even then, if you want one of these breeds, some breeders have bred for dogs that drool less. Other than that, most dogs are fairly slobber-free. It is, of course, individual, too, and you can occasionally get a slobbery dog. Also, when dogs are hot they tend to slobber a bit more.
There are, however dogs that shed very little hair. This is a list of breeds that shed very little hair. Keep in mind that if the dog is a mixed breed with one non-shedding parent and one shedding parent the dog may or may not shed. You can usually tell if the dog will shed when it is a puppy.
List of dog breeds which have the tendency to drool and slobber. There are always exceptions to every breed, depending on the lines in the dog. Some breeds drool and slobber more than others. 1  Alano Espanol. 2  Español Alapaha Blue Blood. 3  Bulldog Ambullneo. 4  Mastiff American Bandogge. 5  Mastiff American Bull dogue De.  bordeaux
Luckily, there are dog breeds which are non-shedders and are less likely to trigger an allergic reaction. Dogs that don’t shed or shed less are also known as hypo-allergenic dogs. With less hair around the house, there will also be less potential allergens that can trigger allergy flare-ups.
There is no such thing as a completely non-shedding dog. Like humans, all dogs shed at least a little hair at one time or another. However there are dogs that shed little hair and these are the best choice for allergy sufferers and, pardon the expression, neat freaks. Dog Shedding and Allergies. Most dog allergies are caused by dog dander, not the hair they shed.
The best hypo-allergenic dogs are those which have the least amount of dander (skin flakes) and those that don’t drool a lot. If you are looking for non-shedding dog breeds, a bit of research will show you that there are certain dog breeds which you can choose from. Most of these dog breeds possess a single coat layer.
While some may find it endearing, the majority of us would probably agree that the less doggie drool we encounter the better of we will be. If you want to steer clear of dog drool there are dog breeds, like the Boxer and Bullmastiff, that you should avoid. Browse our full list of drool offending dog breeds below.
While all dogs shed, some certainly shed more than others. Below is a list of the dog breeds that shed the least! Keep in mind that these are not hypoallergenic breeds, just breeds with minimal shedding. #1 – Bichon Frise A favorite for many, Bichons do have long coats that require constant grooming.