Print. In an autosomal dominant disorder, the mutated gene is a dominant gene located on one of the nonsex chromosomes (autosomes). You need only one mutated gene to be affected by this type of disorder. 
Autosomal recessive: A genetic condition that appears only in individuals who have received two copies of an autosomal gene, one copy from each parent. The gene is on an autosome, a nonsex chromosome. The parents are carriers who have only one copy of the gene and do not exhibit the trait because the gene is recessive to its normal counterpart gene. If both parents are carriers, there is a 25% chance of a child inheriting both abnormal genes and, consequently, developing the disease.
In autosomal recessive inheritance, both genes of interest (i.e., one from each parent) on a paired chromosome have the same defect; if both parents have the recessive gene of interest, the likelihood of expression in progeny is 1:4. Men and women are affected equally. Examples. Genetics Referring to a mode of inheritance, in which the phenotypic expression of a gene of interest requires its presence on both paired chromosomes–ie, a homozygous state; if both parents have the recessive gene of interest, the likelihood of expression in progeny is 1:4; ♂ and ♀
Print. To have an autosomal recessive disorder, you inherit two mutated genes, one from each parent. These disorders are usually passed on by two carriers. Their health is rarely affected, but they have one mutated gene (recessive gene) and one normal gene (dominant gene) for the condition. Two carriers have a 25 percent chance of having an unaffected child with two normal genes (left), a 50 percent chance of having an unaffected child who also is a carrier (middle), and a 25 percent chance of having an affected child with two recessive genes (right).
Autosomal recessive. A pattern of inheritance in which both copies of an autosomal gene must be abnormal for a genetic condition or disease to occur. An autosomal gene is a gene that is located on one of the autosomes or non-sex chromosomes. Genetics Referring to a mode of inheritance, in which the phenotypic expression of a gene of interest requires its presence on both paired chromosomes–ie, a homozygous state; if both parents have the recessive gene of interest, the likelihood of expression in progeny is 1:4; ♂ and ♀ are affected equally.
autosomal-recessive inheritance, a pattern of inheritance resulting from the transmission of a recessive allele on an autosome. Males and females are usually affected with equal frequency. If both parents are heterozygous (Aa), each of their children has a 25% chance of expressing the trait of the recessive allele.
Autosomal: Pertaining to a chromosome that is not a sex chromosome. People normally have 22 pairs of autosomes (44 autosomes) in each cell, together with 2 sex chromosomes, X and Y in a male and X and X in a female. 
Dominance in genetics is a relationship between alleles of one gene, in which the effect on phenotype of one allele masks the contribution of a second allele at the same locus. The first allele is dominant and the second allele is recessive. For genes on an autosome (any chromosome other than a sex chromosome), the alleles and their associated traits are autosomal dominant or autosomal recessive. Dominance is a key concept in Mendelian inheritance and classical genetics. 