Definition of SERIATION. 1. : formation, arrangement, succession, or position in a series or orderly sequence. 
In archaeology, seriation is a relative dating method in which assemblages or artifacts from numerous sites, in the same culture, are placed in chronological order. Whereas contextual seriation is based on the presence or absence of a design style, frequency seriation relies on measuring the proportional abundance or frequency of a design style.
Photo Credit: Description De L'Egypte, 1800. Seriation, also called artifact sequencing, is an early scientific method of relative dating, invented (most likely) by the Egyptologist Sir William Flinders Petrie in the late 19th century. Seriation, with some modifications, is still in use today. The technique is now run by computers using an incidence matrix and then running repeated permutations on the matrix until it falls out in the patterns shown above. However, absolute dating techniques have made seriation a minor analytical tool toda
Best Answer: Seriation is a way of situating an object within a series. In archaeology, seriation is a method in relative dating in which artifacts of numerous sites, in the same culture, are placed in chronological order. In the words of archeologist Gehrard, whoever sees one monument has really seen none; whoever has seen a thousand has only seen one.. (cited in Molino 1974, p.87). Seriation invokes the idea that any investigator, in order to assign some plausible meaning to a given phenomena, must interpret it within a series of comparable phenomena. One cannot interpret what philology calls a hapax; that is, an isolated phenomenon.
Seriation Skills can be defined as “the ability to arrange objects in order by size”. The development of seriation skills is a step-by-step developmental process. As children grow and develop, their ability to seriate will also develop. For instance, a very young child (two years old) may not be able to seriate at all. • First, seriation skills are often related to more complex math concepts, such as ordination or placing numbers in the correct order (for example, 1, 2, 3). • Furthermore, well-developed seriation skills also help to develop higher-order thinking and problem-solving skills.
Seriation Skills. Seriation skills are important for a number of reasons: • First, seriation skills are often related to more complex math concepts, such as ordination or placing numbers in the correct order (for example, 1, 2, 3). • Furthermore, well-developed seriation skills also help to develop higher-order thinking and problem-solving skills.
Two different variants of seriation have been applied: contextual seriation and frequency seriation (Renfrew and Bahn 1996, pp. 116–117). Whereas contextual seriation is based on the presence or absence of a design style, frequency seriation relies on measuring the proportional abundance or frequency of a design style.
Where absolute dating methods, such as carbon dating, cannot be applied, archaeologists have to use relative dating methods to date archaeological finds and features. Seriation is a standard method of dating in archaeology. It can be used to date stone tools, pottery fragments, and other artifacts. In Europe, it has been used frequently to reconstruct the chronological sequence of graves in a cemetery. 
Seriation is a way of situating an object within a series. The term may refer to: Seriation (archaeology) In archaeology, seriation is a method in relative dating in which artifacts of numerous sites, in the same culture, are placed in chronological order. In the words of archeologist Gehrard, whoever sees one monument has really seen none; whoever has seen a thousand has only seen one.. (cited in Molino 1974, p.87). Seriation invokes the idea that any investigator, in order to assign some plausible meaning to a given phenomena, must interpret it within a series of comparable phenomena. One cannot interpret what philology calls a hapax; that is, an isolated phenomenon.