This research is the reason why the Vitamin D Council recommends taking 4,000 IU to 6,000 IU of vitamin D every day if you’re pregnant. This will ensure that you’re getting enough vitamin D as a pregnant mother, and getting enough vitamin D to your unborn child.
The study confirmed vitamin D at this level is not only safe for you, but for your baby, and the researchers from this study now recommend this daily dosage of vitamin D for all pregnant women. The average prenatal vitamin only contains 400 IU of vitamin D, so additional supplementation should be taken daily.
I recommend that pregnant women take a supplement of 4,000 IU of vitamin D a day. And I recommend that lactating women take a supplement of 6,000 IU daily, says Bruce Hollis, professor of pediatrics at the Medical University of South Carolina, who has researched vitamin D needs.
Health.com: Vitamin D -- why you need this vitamin now. Pregnant women need to take 4,000 IU of vitamin D a day, says Bruce Hollis, Ph.D., the director of pediatric nutritional sciences at the Medical University of South Carolina, in Charleston, and one of the authors of the study.
Vitamin D promotes calcium absorption, and it is needed for bone growth. It also has a positive role in the function of the immune system and reduces inflammation. Women aged 19 to 70, pregnant or nursing are required to get 600 international units, or 15 micrograms, of vitamin D.
Vitamin D is beneficial for your own personal health. Vitamin D now has extensive research supporting its role in immune function, healthy cell division and bone health. Vitamin D is necessary for the absorption and metabolism of calcium and phosphorus.
Vitamin D is a steroid vitamin from a group of fat-soluble pro hormones. Vitamin D and pregnancy are important together. Expecting mothers need to make sure they get the recommended amounts of vitamin D during pregnancy for both their own well being and the healthy development of their baby.
Vitamin A is required and essential for maintenance of normal reproductive function. The recommended daily level during pregnancy is 8,000 IU. Doses of Vitamin A, consumed as retinol of more than 10,000 IU can be harmful to unborn children.
(Health.com) -- Pregnant women could -- and probably should -- consume 10 times more vitamin D than experts currently recommend, according to a new study. Current guidelines for daily vitamin D intake during pregnancy range from 200 international units (IU) per day to 400 IU, the amount found in most prenatal vitamins.
Vitamin D works with calcium to help the baby’s bones and teeth develop. It also is essential for healthy skin and eyesight. All women, including those who are pregnant, need 600 international units of vitamin D a day.