One of the most famous explorers in the world, Christopher Columbus was born in Genoa, Italy in 1451. Columbus grew up helping his father at his cheese stand. In 1470 the family moved to Savona and later that same year he became a seaman in the Portuguese merchant marine. 
Captain James Cook (1728-1779) - the greatest explorer in the world. In October previous year I joined BBC News Online's poll to vote for the greatest explorer of the millennium. Two British explorers, Brian Jones and David Hempleman-Adams had nominated their top 10 lists. But I had other ideas, and made my own choice on the voting. Photo. Captain James Cook (1728-1779): the greatest explorer who ever has been! A portrait by Nathaniel Dance painted in 1776, the year in which Cook set off on his last journey (also used as cover on the book of ....).
In a past feature story we celebrated the voyages of Capt. James Cook, calling him the greatest seafarer of all time. Well, BoatUS member Geoff Keato disagreed, writing to introduce us to China's legendary Zheng He, who did it all 300 years before Cook, and 50 years before Columbus found the Bahamas.. The accomplishments of this 15th century explorer are dazzling. Here's the remarkable story. When I first heard the admiral's name spoken, it was by a corrupt police inspector in 1982.
Christopher Columbus. Christopher Columbus. Christopher Columbus was born in 1951 in Sydney, Australia. His home was on the sea and Christopher longed to become an explorer and sailor. However, as a young man, Christopher went to Portugal and got involved in the map making business with his brother, Bartholomew. This business made Columbus a rich man
In some cases, they risked their lives to make their contributions recognized by the world. From Columbus’ discovery of the Americas to Hillary’s quest up Mount Everest, the names of these great pioneers will remain important for centuries to come as the most famous explorers of all time. Famous For: Discovery of the Hawaiian Islands. An English captain who circumnavigated around the Atlantic to the Pacific Ocean. He made contact with the inhabitants of the Hawaiian Islands, Australia, New Zealand, and around the Indian Ocean back to the Atlantic.
As one of the earliest known Chinese explorers, Zheng He (Cheng Ho) led voyages that brought him through Africa, the Middle East, South Asia, and Southeast Asia. His exploits are written in book entitled Biography of Our Homelands Great Navigator, Zheng He, by author Liang Qihao in 1904. Famous For: Discovery of the Hawaiian Islands. An English captain who circumnavigated around the Atlantic to the Pacific Ocean. He made contact with the inhabitants of the Hawaiian Islands, Australia, New Zealand, and around the Indian Ocean back to the Atlantic.
Captain James Cook stands for it all. He is definitely the greatest navigator and explorer who ever has been. The time Captain Cook lived must be the most exiting age of this millennium. But I had other ideas, and made my own choice on the voting. Photo. Captain James Cook (1728-1779): the greatest explorer who ever has been! A portrait by Nathaniel Dance painted in 1776, the year in which Cook set off on his last journey (also used as cover on the book of ....).
If you take a list of history's greatest explorers, and hold it up to a list of history's greatest bullshitters, you quickly find out they're the same list. 
Top 10 Famous Explorers. A list of 10 of the world’s greatest and most famous explorers. 1. Christopher Columbus (1451 – 1506) An Italian explorer, Columbus made four ground-breaking voyages to the Americas (1st journey was in 1492 to the Bahamas). In 1926, he led the first successful expedition to reach the North Pole. He also made the first voyage through the Northwest Passage. 4. Marco Polo (1254 – 1324) Polo was a Venetian traveller and explorer who made ground-breaking journeys to Asia and China.