· just now. Report Abuse. You can usually see a fetal pole about the size of a rice grain around 5 and a half to 6 weeks. the yolk sac is usually about 3-5mm in size and it will only get smaller as the placenta takes over for supplying nutrients to the fetus. Again a vaginal ultrasound and we saw gestational sac, yolk sac and teeny tiny heartbeat on the bottom of it although there was no fetal pole yet! At 6.3 weeks a vaginal ultrasound showed fetal pole, yolk sac, gestational sac and heartbeat very well.
Generally from 6 ½ -7 weeks is the time when a heartbeat can be detected and viability can be assessed. A normal heartbeat at 6-7 weeks would be 90-110 beats per minute. The presence of an embryonic heartbeat is an assuring sign of the health of the pregnancy. If your doctor is concerned about miscarriage, blighted ovum, or ectopic pregnancy miscarriage or blighted ovum is made. If the fetal pole is too small to take an accurate measurement, then a repeat scan should be done in 3-5 days.
The viability of the pregnancy can be assessed from around 6 ½ weeks to 7 weeks when the heartbeat is detected. The normal heartbeat at this point in time should be 90 – 110 beats per minute. The length of the fetal pole can be measured. It is usually taken as the crown to rump length (CRL) or from the top of the head to the beginning of the bend. It enables the doctor to accurately date the pregnancy. The length is usually in the range of 2 to 4 mm.
12-12-2007, 03:03 PM. The fetal pole is a thickening on the margin of the yolk sac of a fetus during pregnancy. It is usually identified at 6.5 weeks with abdominal ultrasound imaging, and 6 weeks with vaginal ultrasound imaging. However it is quite normal for the fetal pole to not be visible until about 8 weeks. The fetal pole may be seen at 2-4 mm crown-rump length (CRL), and heart motion is often detected when it is seen. In the embryo, the heartbeat is seen as a regular flutter, which should be first evident at 5 mm CRL.
The fetal pole is a thickening on the margin of the yolk sac of a fetus during pregnancy. It is usually identified at 8 weeks with abdominal ultrasound imaging, and 6 weeks with vaginal ultrasound imaging. However it is quite normal for the fetal pole to not be visible until about 9 weeks. The fetal pole may be seen at 2–4 mm crown-rump length (CRL), and heart motion is often detected when it is seen. In the embryo, the heartbeat is seen as a regular flutter, which should be first evident at 5 mm CRL
Between 5 ½ weeks and 6 ½ weeks of pregnancy, the fetal pole can be detected using trans-vaginal ultrasonography. The length of the fetal pole can be measured. It is usually taken as the crown to rump length (CRL) or from the top of the head to the beginning of the bend. It enables the doctor to accurately date the pregnancy. The length is usually in the range of 2 to 4 mm. The heartbeat can be detected when the fetal pole is 5 mm CRL. If at this stage no fetal pole is detected, then the trans-vaginal ultrasound scan should be repeated within a week. This may happen at times and is should not be cause for alarm
The fetal pole grows at a rate of about 1 mm a day, starting at the 6th week of gestational age. Thus, a simple way to date an early pregnancy is to add the length of the fetus (in mm) to 6 weeks. Using this method, a fetal pole measuring 5 mm would have a gestational age of 6 weeks and 5 days. 
The fetal pole now allows for crown to rump measurements (CRL) to be taken, so that pregnancy dating can be a bit more accurate. The fetal pole may be seen at a crown-rump length (CRL) of 2-4mm, and the heartbeat may be seen as a regular flutter when the CRL has reached 5mm. If a vaginal ultrasound is done and no fetal pole or cardiac activity is seen, another ultrasound scan should be done in 3-7 days. If your doctor is concerned about miscarriage, blighted ovum, or ectopic pregnancy miscarriage or blighted ovum is made. If the fetal pole is too small to take an accurate measurement, then a repeat scan should be done in 3-5 days.
The fetal pole grows at a rate of about 1 mm a day, starting at the 6th week of gestational age. Thus, a simple way to date an early pregnancy is to add the length of the fetus (in mm) to 6 weeks. Using this method, a fetal pole measuring 5 mm would have a gestational age of 6 weeks and 5 days. 
Vaginal ultrasound is able to detect the fetal pole at around six weeks. It should be noted, however, that every fetus develops differently, and it can be difficult to determine exactly the date of gestation, so some variation in the detection time is to be expected. When the length of the embryo (also known as crown-rump length) is between 2 and 4 mm, the fetal pole can often be detected. In many cases, the fetal heartbeat is also visible at this point and can be detected as a flutter of the embryo that occurs at regular intervals.