The haploid stage, in which a multicellular haploid gametophyte develops from a spore and produces haploid gametes, is the dominant stage in the bryophyte life cycle. The mature gametophyte produces both male and female gametes, which join to form a diploid zygote. The zygote develops into the diploid sporophyte, which extends from the gametophyte and produces haploid spores through meiosis. Once the spores germinate, they produce new gametophyte plants and the cycle continues.
Once the fungi has germinated itself through asexual reproduction the primary mycelia then produces a sclerotium which in turn produces the fruiting body of the morel (the edible part) which will then repeat the process. When the conditions are right, the sclerotium will produce the fruiting bodies of the fungi in either myceliogenic germinations (towards the root) or carpogenic germinations (above ground) in which to start the process of reproduction once again. As seen above, the fruiting body contains asci the houses the spores.
Reproduction via spores involves the spreading of the spores by water or air. Algae and some fungi (chytrids) often use motile zoospores that can swim to new locations before developing into sessile organisms. Airborne spores are obvious in fungi, for example when they are released from puffballs. Reproductive spores grow into multicellular haploid individuals or sporelings. In heterosporous organisms, two types of spores exist: microspores give rise to males and megaspores to females. In homosporous organisms, all spores look alike and grow into individuals carrying reproductive parts of both genders.
Problems. All plants undergo a life cycle that takes them through both haploid and diploid generations. The multicellular diploid plant structure is called the sporophyte, which produces spores through meiotic (asexual) division. The multicellular haploid plant structure is called the gametophyte, which is formed from the spore and give rise to the haploid gametes. The mature gametophyte produces both male and female gametes, which join to form a diploid zygote. The zygote develops into the diploid sporophyte, which extends from the gametophyte and produces haploid spores through meiosis. Once the spores germinate, they produce new gametophyte plants and the cycle continues.
In biology, a spore is a unit of asexual reproduction that may be adapted for dispersal and for survival, often for extended periods of time, in unfavorable conditions. By contrast, gametes are units of sexual reproduction. Spores form part of the life cycles of many plants, algae, fungi and protozoa. Heterosporous plants, such as seed plants, spikemosses, quillworts, and some aquatic ferns produce spores of two different sizes: the larger spore (megaspore) in effect functioning as a female spore and the smaller (microspore) functioning as a male.
A spore is a reproductive structure that is adapted for dispersal and surviving for extended periods of time in unfavorable conditions. Spores form part of the life cycles of … many bacteria, plants, algae, fungi and some protozoans. 3 people found this useful. Mushrooms aren't organisms, however. They are simply the fruiting bodies, or 'sporocarps' (sporo-spore, carp-body) of fungi within the Phylum, Basidiomycota. Ascomy … cota, along with Basidiomycota form the Subkingdom, Dikarya, in the Kingdom of Fungi.
Spores are usually haploid and unicellular and are produced by meiosis in the sporangium of a diploid sporophyte. Under favourable conditions the spore can develop into a new organism using mitotic division, producing a multicellular gametophyte, which eventually goes on to produce gametes. Heterosporous plants, such as seed plants, spikemosses, quillworts, and some aquatic ferns produce spores of two different sizes: the larger spore (megaspore) in effect functioning as a female spore and the smaller (microspore) functioning as a male.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The sporophyte stage of a plant undergoes meiosis which produces haploid spores. Spores can also be produced during meiosis in the plant life cycle. Mushrooms aren't organisms, however. They are simply the fruiting bodies, or 'sporocarps' (sporo-spore, carp-body) of fungi within the Phylum, Basidiomycota. Ascomy … cota, along with Basidiomycota form the Subkingdom, Dikarya, in the Kingdom of Fungi.
Sporogenesis is the production of spores in biology. The term is also used to refer to the process of reproduction via spores. Reproductive spores were found to be formed in eukaryotic organisms, such as plants, algae and fungi, during their normal reproductive life cycle. Reproductive spores grow into multicellular haploid individuals or sporelings. In heterosporous organisms, two types of spores exist: microspores give rise to males and megaspores to females. In homosporous organisms, all spores look alike and grow into individuals carrying reproductive parts of both genders.
The sporophyte stage of a plant undergoes meiosis which produces  haploid spores. Spores can also be produced during meiosis in the  plant life cycle. A spore is a reproductive structure that is adapted for dispersal and surviving for extended periods of time in unfavorable conditions. Spores form part of the life cycles of … many bacteria, plants, algae, fungi and some protozoans.