The mean corpuscular hemoglobin (MCH) , or mean cell hemoglobin (MCH), is the average mass of hemoglobin per red blood cell in a sample of blood. It is reported as part of a standard complete blood count. 
Hemoglobin is the protein molecule in red blood cells that carries oxygen from the lungs to the body's tissues and returns carbon dioxide from the tissues back to the lungs. Hemoglobin is made up of four protein molecules (globulin chains) that are connected together. 
hemoglobin (Hb, Hgb) test, a blood test that measures the total amount of hemoglobin in the peripheral blood, which reflects the number of red blood cells in the blood. The test is normally performed as part of a complete blood count. Abnormal levels indicate anemia, erythrocytosis, and sickle cell disease, among others. 1  Facebook.
Glycohemoglobin (HbA1c, A1c). Guide. A glycohemoglobin test, or hemoglobin A1c, is a blood test that checks the amount of sugar (glucose) bound to the hemoglobin in the red blood cells. When hemoglobin and glucose bond, a coat of sugar forms on the hemoglobin. 
High Hgb Results. A blood test that reflects a high Hgb result may indicate that your kidneys are not functioning as they should be. According to mayoclinic.com, your kidneys may be eliminating too much protein, or that your bone marrow is overproducing red blood cells. High Hgb may also denote dehydration or possibly a lung disorder. Labtestsonline.org explains that the purpose of an Hgb blood test is to determine the amount of hemoglobin that exists in your blood as well as, how well it is supplying your blood cells with oxygen. In patients with bleeding problems such as, heavy menstrual flows, an Hgb test can determine levels of anemia
Definition. A hemoglobin test measures the amount of hemoglobin in your blood. Hemoglobin is a protein in your red blood cells that carries oxygen to your body's organs and tissues and transports carbon dioxide from your organs and tissues back to your lungs. If a hemoglobin test reveals that your hemoglobin level is lower than normal, it means you have a low red blood cell count (anemia). Anemia can have many different causes, including vitamin deficiencies, bleeding and chronic disease
The hemoglobin test is often used to check for anemia, usually along with a hematocrit or as part of a complete blood count (CBC) . The test may be used to screen for, diagnose, or monitor a number of conditions and diseases that affect red blood cells (RBCs) and/or the amount of hemoglobin in blood. The hemoglobin test may be ordered during a general health examination or when a person has signs and symptoms of a condition affecting red blood cells such as anemia or polycythemia. Some signs and symptoms of anemia include: 1  Weakness or fatigue.
Definition. A low hemoglobin count is a commonly seen blood test result. Hemoglobin (Hb or Hgb) is a protein in red blood cells that carries oxygen throughout the body. In many cases, a low hemoglobin count is only slightly lower than normal and doesn't affect how you feel.
Low hemoglobin with low RBC count and low hematocrit indicates anemia. Some causes include: 1  Excessive loss of blood from, for example, severe trauma or chronic bleeding from sites such as the digestive tract (e.g., ulcers, polyps, colon cancer), the bladder or uterus (in women, heavy menstrual bleeding, for example). The hemoglobin test may be ordered during a general health examination or when a person has signs and symptoms of a condition affecting red blood cells such as anemia or polycythemia. Some signs and symptoms of anemia include: 1  Weakness or fatigue.