Magical realism is a genre of literature that blends realistic elements with magical elements to create 'magical realism.' Magical realism originated in Latin America, where writers such as Gabriel Garcia Marquez and Isabel Allende made it popular.
The term magical realism was coined by European art historian Franz Roh in the 1920s. Roh believed that the form was a reaction to expressionism and a return to celebrating the autonomy of the objective world.
Of the four terms, Magical realism is the most commonly used and refers to literature in particular that portrays magical or unreal elements as a natural part in an otherwise realistic or mundane environment.
Magical realism, magic realism, or marvelous realism is literature, painting, and film that, while encompassing a range of subtly different concepts, share in common an acceptance of magic in the rational world. It is also sometimes called fabulism, in reference to the conventions of fables, myths, and allegory.
What is Magic Realism Art To define Magic Realism as it applies to art is both a challenging and elusive task. Those who embark on an exploration of this topic soon experience feelings of disorientation, confusion or even delirium.
Some various definitions of magical realism Magical Realism--We recognize the world, although now--not only because we have emerged from a dream--we look on it with new eyes. We are offered a new style that is thoroughly of this world, that celebrates the mundane.
Jupiterimages/Photos.com/Getty Images. Magical realism has become well-known as a literary genre, but was a term used to categorize visual art as early as the 1920s. In both the visual and literary arts, it refers to a style of expression that presents a realistic world that has elements of the magical or fantastical.
Definition of MAGIC REALISM. 1. : painting in a meticulously realistic style of imaginary or fantastic scenes or images. 2. : a literary genre or style associated especially with Latin America that incorporates fantastic or mythical elements into otherwise realistic fiction —called also magical realism.