Anticholinergic (antispasmodic) drugs include a broad class of medications that are used to treat various medical conditions involving muscles such as overactive bladder, muscle spasms, breathing problems, diarrhea, gastrointestinal cramps, movement disorders, and others. Anticholinergic drugs affect the function of many organs by preventing acetylcholine from binding to its receptors. Anticholinergic drugs decrease the activity of muscles in the gut and reduce production of sweat, saliva, digestive juices, urine, and tears.
A new study provides the strongest evidence that anticholinergic drugs may increase the risk for dementia in older adults. The drugs implicated are commonly used, estimated to be taken by about 20% of the older adult population for many conditions. 
Anticholinergics decrease acetylcholine activity to balance out the production of dopamine and acetylcholine. They are used to treat incontinence, depression and sleep disorders. Medications with strong anticholinergic effects, such as antihistamines that cause drowsiness, are well known for causing acute cognitive impairment in individuals with dementia and may cause confusion and hallucinations.
It’s not surprising that problems with short-term memory, reasoning, and confusion lead the list of anticholinergic side effects, which also include drowsiness, dry mouth, urine retention, and constipation. The University of Washington study is the first to include nonprescription drugs. When the researchers examined the use of anticholinergic drugs, they found that people who used these drugs were more likely to have developed dementia as those who didn’t use them. Moreover, dementia risk increased along with the cumulative dose.
The drugs help to block involuntary movements of the muscles associated with these diseases. They also balance the production of dopamine and acetylcholine in the body. Anticholinergics can also be used to treat certain types of toxic poisoning, and are sometimes used as an aid to anesthesia. Anticholinergics are only available with a doctor’s prescription. Anticholinergics are used to treat a variety of conditions. These include: 1  gastrointestinal disorders, such as diarrhea, overactive bladder, and incontinence. 2  asthma. 3  chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).
Medical uses [edit]. Anticholinergic drugs are used to treat a variety of conditions: 1  Gastrointestinal disorders (e.g., gastritis, diarrhea, pylorospasm, diverticulitis, ulcerative colitis, nausea, and vomiting). 2  Genitourinary disorders (e.g., cystitis, urethritis, and prostatitis). 3  Respiratory disorders (e.g., asthma, chronic bronchitis, and chronic obstructive 4  .... S
Anticholinergic: Opposing the actions of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine. Anticholinergic drugs inhibit the transmission of parasympathetic nerve impulses, thereby reducing spasms of smooth muscles (for example, muscles in the bladder). 
Anticholinergics are a class of drugs that block the action of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine in the brain. They are used to treat diseases like asthma, incontinence, gastrointestinal cramps, and muscular spasms. Anticholinergics are used to treat a variety of conditions. These include: 1  gastrointestinal disorders, such as diarrhea, overactive bladder, and incontinence. 2  asthma. 3  chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).
A. The actual category of medications you are referring to is spelled anticholinergic. Anticholinergic drugs interfere with the action of the neurochemical acetylcholine. Here is a link to an article about why anticholinergic drugs can affect cognition. 
An anticholinergic agent is a substance that blocks the neurotransmitter acetylcholine in the central and the peripheral nervous system. Anticholinergics inhibit parasympathetic nerve impulses by selectively blocking the binding of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine to its receptor in nerve cells. Anticholinergic drugs are used to treat a variety of conditions: 1  Gastrointestinal disorders (e.g., gastritis, diarrhea, pylorospasm, diverticulitis, ulcerative colitis, nausea, and vomiting). 2  Genitourinary disorders (e.g., cystitis, urethritis, and prostatitis). 3  Respiratory disorders (e.g., asthma, chronic bronchitis, and chronic obstructive 4  .... S