This tool is to assist you in estimating the approximate budget cost for building work on your home. It is important to know the proposed floor area of the new extension and also the floor area of associated renovation works together with other works in the remainder of the house. 
Most builders can give you an idea of what your extension will cost per square foot or metre. For example, a basic single storey extension would typically cost around £1,000 per square metre but it could be up to £1,600 or more for a premium two storey extension. 
House Extension Costs Calculator. The current uncertainty in the housing market has caused an upsurge in the number of house extensions being built. Adding a bedroom to a house is an almost certain way of increasing the value of a property beyond the cost of having the work done. Whatprice provide a useful cost calculator (below), or better still why not use our FREE quotation service to get an accurate cost for building an extension. With the extension cost calculator you can get a quick, free, rough estimate of at least some of the costs involved in building extra room(s) for your house. It should be remembered that the extension building costs displayed are indicative only and quotations should be obtained from reputable contractors-Disclaimer. The following table compares the estimate from the extension cost calculator with actual prices submitted to Whatprice.
As a rough idea you can typically say that it will cost at least £1000 per m 2 or 93 per ft 2 including basic plumbing and electrician work. This price is per unit area of internal floor space and so a 5x4m single floor extension will have a total floor area of 20m 2 and a double storey will have 40m 2. 
A same level house extension in Australia will cost approximately $60,000 to $200,000+. Adding a room or extending your living area on the ground floor are affordable ways of creating more space. Here are some key points to consider that will help you keep your renovation costs in check. 
The best way to find out the cost of building an extension in your your area is to Post an Enquiry for home extension costs. You will get up to four house extension prices to compare and you are under no obligation whatsoever to accept any of them. Finding out the cost of building an extension is a good starting point as you will also get loads of advice on different extension designs and extension ideas.
As a rule of thumb you can add 50% extra to the build cost of a single storey extension. So, £24,000 +50% = £36,000. + Add on 10-15% for professional fees (architect, planning application, building regs, structural engineer). + VAT. However, this figure has been bandied about for rather a long time now! From experience, £1,200 per m2 is a now a more realistic estimate for a house extension cost in 2015 and reflects price increases over the last few years. So, for your 4 x 5m extension, the build cost would be roughly £24,000. + Add on 10-15% for professional fees (architect, planning application, building regs, structural engineer). + VAT. Single storey extension = £32,000
A same level house extension in New Zealand will cost approximately $60,000 to $200,000+. Adding a room or extending your living area on the ground floor are affordable ways of creating more space. Here are some key points to consider that will help you keep your renovation costs in check. In most cases, when you are extending your home you will be able to keep all the original cladding on your house and simply add the same style of cladding to your addition so it blends in perfectly. Painting the exterior of an average sized, single-storey house with a one-room extension is likely to cost around $15,000.
Cost/Price of Building an Extension. Assuming that your name isn’t Olly Garch, Croesus or even Gates, the thought process behind getting several quotations for your new extension is simple. 