1 - FOS is crystalized poison and always bad. 2 - FOS is natures blessing upon us and always good. What I read from all this is that if you have a *really bad* bacteria problem (the condition of most of those doing SCD), then probably best to hold the FOS/Inulin because you have so much more bad bacteria. There seems to be a very wide range of what is recommended for FOS and inulin too. For example, a few milligrams in a probiotic supplement is very different from the 5-15 grams or more recommended on some FOS/inulin products.
FOS are found in high concentrations in Jerusalem artichoke and in fruits and vegetables like asparagus, bananas, barley, garlic, jicama, leeks, onions, tomatoes and wheat. The FOS, made up of plant sugars linked in chains, are extracted from these foods for use in medicines and as a sweetener for foods. 
This type of FOS is not natural. Most is manufactured using a chemical process, in which fungal enzymes are added to white sugar (sucrose), acting upon it and turning it into FOS. Some fructooligosaccharides are also made by the hydrolysis (breaking down) of inulin from chicory. It is also classed as an oligosaccharide; oligo meaning few and saccharide, sugar. Fructooligosaccharides are also sometimes called oligofructose. Often the term is abbreviated to the letters FOS. Together with inulin fiber, fructooligosaccharides are probably most recognized for their prebiotic qualities.
Tweet. Fructooligosaccharides (FOS) are short-chain polymers comprised of D-fructose and D-glucose, which are not metabolized by the body like simple sugars are, and are therefore considered non-digestible oligosaccharides. CAUTION: Some individuals taking FOS may experience gastrointestinal bloating that persists longer than 1-2 weeks, possibly due to unfriendly microbes feeding on FOS. In such cases, this product should be discontinued.
Of these foods the sunchoke or Jerusalem artichoke and its relative, the yacon yacón have the highest concentrations OF. Fos you will also find that-fructo oligosaccharide or, oligofructose as it is also, known is added to many processed, foods mainly as a prebiotic or fiber supplement but also as a. sweetener It is also classed as an oligosaccharide; oligo meaning few and saccharide, sugar. Fructooligosaccharides are also sometimes called oligofructose. Often the term is abbreviated to the letters FOS. Together with inulin fiber, fructooligosaccharides are probably most recognized for their prebiotic qualities.
Two different classes of fructooligosaccharide (FOS) mixtures are produced commercially, based on inulin degradation or transfructosylation processes. FOS can be produced by degradation of inulin, or polyfructose, a polymer of. -fructose residues linked by β(2→1) bonds with a terminal α(1→2) linked. -glucose. FOS is extracted from the blue Agave plant as well as fruits and vegetables such as bananas, onions, chicory root, garlic, asparagus, jicama, jícama and. Leeks some grains and, cereals such as wheat and, barley also CONTAIN. fos
Fructooligosaccharides probiotic enhancer. Suitable for vegeterians and hypoallergenic. Source Naturals FOS is a complex of fructooligosaccharides (FOS) - a group of naturally occuring carbohydrates that can help promote the growth of beneficial flora in the gastrointestinal tract.
FOS stands for fructo-oligosaccharides, and these sugars linked together in chain formation. Inulin is a popular version of an FOS that is often added to foods with probiotics and is also marketed under the names Neosugar, Alant Starch, Atlanta Starch, Alantin, Dahlin, Helenin and Diabetic Sugar. FOS is found naturally in certain foods, such as asparagus, garlic, Jerusalem artichokes and chicory root. While simple sugars are digested by your body, FOS is mostly indigestible because humans don't have the enzymes needed to break it down, and so it functions as fiber in the diet.
They occur naturally in bananas, garlic, Jerusalem artichokes and certain other foods, and technically are a soluble fiber. FOS are effective sweeteners, being half as sweet as sucrose, yet are not absorbed and have minimal caloric value. FOS may be considered prebiotic and support the proliferation of intestinal probiotics, especially the bifidobacteria.* Our FOS are derived from sugar cane. CAUTION: Some individuals taking FOS may experience gastrointestinal bloating that persists longer than 1-2 weeks, possibly due to unfriendly microbes feeding on FOS. In such cases, this product should be discontinued.