You party! (Church-style, of course.) The medieval period lasted from approximately 500-1450 A.D. and was a time of heavy church influence. Music was obviously around before this time and had various developments, but during the medieval period, the use and creation of music was regulated by the church. The end of medieval period music is around the 1400s, and Guillaume de Machaut was a key composer in ushering the change of music and style. Literally one of the first Renaissance men, Machaut was a composer and poet who wrote both sacred and secular music.
Certainly there is a strong English flavor in the 13th-century Trondheim cathedral (Norway). High Gothic. During the period from about 1250 to 1300 European art was dominated for the first time by the art and architecture of France. Although modern scholars have long realized that Gothic art has nothing in truth to do with the Goths, the term Gothic remains a standard one in the study of art history. Architecture was the most important and original art form during the Gothic period.
It evolved from Romanesque architecture and was succeeded by Renaissance architecture. Originating in 12th-century France and lasting into the 16th century, Gothic architecture was known during the period as Opus Francigenum (French work) with the term Gothic first appearing during the later part of the Renaissance. Its characteristics include the pointed arch, the ribbed vault and the flying buttress.
Gothic architecture is a style of architecture that flourished during the high and late medieval period. Originating in 12th-century France and lasting into the 16th century, Gothic architecture was known during the period as Opus Francigenum (French work) with the term Gothic first appearing during the later part of the Renaissance. Its characteristics include the pointed arch, the ribbed vault and the flying buttress.
During the middle ages, there were two important artistic periods: -The Romanesque (1000-1150) -The Gothic (1150-1450) The period of history also known as The Dark ages in Europe began about 450 with the disintegration of the Roman Empire. During the middle ages, most important musicians were priests. -The Romanesque (1000-1150). -The Gothic (1150-1450). The period of history also known as The Dark ages in Europe began about 450 with the disintegration of the Roman Empire. During the middle ages, most important musicians were priests. Avirtual monopoly on learning was held by monks in monasterie
Medieval music is Western music written during the Middle Ages. This era begins with the fall of the Western Roman Empire in the fifth century and ends sometime in the early fifteenth century. One of the flute's predecessors, the pan flute, was popular in medieval times, and is possibly of Hellenic origin. This instrument's pipes were made of wood, and were graduated in length to produce different pitches. Medieval music uses many plucked string instruments like the lute, mandore, gittern and psaltery.
By the 12th century music grew from one melodic line (monophony) to two or more (polyphony). One of the earliest major centers of polyphonic music was at Notre Dame in Paris. Another important aspect of medieval music is that, for the first time, we have written-down notation and composer attributions. More About Medieval Music. One way we learn about music in the Middle Ages is by examining Medieval art. There are instruments in the borders of many manuscripts of chant. Angels play everything from organs, vielles and harps to trumpets and shawms in the paintings of the period.
We don’t know a great deal about music-making in the early part of this period, because only church music was important enough to be written down, and only a tiny bit of that has survived. In the early part of the medieval period, church music comprised just one melody line, called plainchant. Very slowly, the idea of combining two or more lines together began to be used in the big churches and cathedrals like Notre Dame in Paris. 