Well they're called Drosophila melanogaster (or just fruit flies) and they've been used to study genetics for over 100 years. This interactive website is designed to introduce biology students to research on model organisms while reviewing genetics basics.
Model organisms are species that are studied to understand the biology of other organisms, often humans. Fruit flies share 75% of the genes that cause disease with humans, so scientists can learn about human genetics by studying fruit fly genetics.
1 The fruit fly (Drosophila melanogaster, ‘ Drosophila ’ hereafter) is the most extensively used and one of the most well understood of all the model organisms. 2  Drosophila fruit flies measure approximately 3 mm in length. 3  Drosophila larvae are small, white and glossy with a similar appearance to worms.
1) To familiarize you with an important research organism, the fruit fly, Drosophila melanogaster. 2) Introduce you to normal wild type and various mutant phenotypes. 3) To help you understand the connection between presence or absence of a genetic trait in an individual and the ratio of that trait in a population.
Drosophila melanogaster, also known as the fruit fly, is a powerful model organism widely used in biological research that has made significant contributions to the greater scientific community over the last century.
Key facts. 1  The fruit fly (Drosophila melanogaster, ‘ Drosophila ’ hereafter) is the most extensively used and one of the most well understood of all the model organisms. 2  Drosophila fruit flies measure approximately 3 mm in length. 3  Drosophila larvae are small, white and glossy with a similar appearance to worms.
Introduction. The fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster has been extensively studied for over a century as a model organism for genetic investigations. It also has many characteristics which make it an ideal organism for the study of animal development and behavior, neurobiology, and human genetic diseases and conditions.
Drosophila melanogaster, also known as the fruit fly, is a small insect that is commonly found near ripening fruit. Drosophila is a widely used model organism for scientific research and the study of this organism has provided insight into eukaryotic genetics and human disease.