Get your razors at the ready as it was revealed today that a beard can make men look up to ten years older. Even a light stubble can age a man by three years and having a moustache can add up to five years to a man's age. A study has shown that by having a beard men can increase their age appearance by up to ten years, a panel agreed that George Clooney looked five years younger without his beard.
A full on beard will make you look older, im not too keen on beards, but i love abit of stubble ;)!! Best Answer: I think they tend to make guys look older, but some just look like they're trying to look older which makes them look younger. If that makes sense? ha ha. Some guys look really hot with beards, like rugged, but some just look terrible and messy.
Other men grow beards because they believe their clean-shaven faces are too feminine or pretty. Some people call this the Justin Bieber effect: No pretty boy look for me!. When you're 22 it is not uncommon to want to make yourself look as old as possible. A beard will put on five years, maybe 10. We live in a hairy age, when stubble or hair on a man's face is thought to be a wonderful thing. Proof of this is all around: full beards on the pasty white faces of 22-year-olds; Ho Chi Minh goatees on the chins of drug dealers, the homeless, karate kids, bankers, supermarket clerks and bicycle messengers.
'There is no doubt that facial hair and beards in particular do tend to make men look older.'. Despite this Dr Shahmalak says that having a little facial hair is better than no hair at all when it comes to self-confidence. A study has shown that by having a beard men can increase their age appearance by up to ten years, a panel agreed that George Clooney looked five years younger without his beard.
There is a difference between looking older and looking old. A beard may make you look older but it doesn't man you look old. In this video I explain the difference. 1  People & Blogs. 2  Standard YouTube License. 
· just now. Report Abuse. It depends on the guy and the beard. A beard can make you look 10 years older or younger or it can change your look entirely without making you look a different age. Z, unnecessary letter · 9 years ago. Thumbs up. If you are older a neat, close cropped beard can make you look younger. If you are young it usually just looks plain stupid and an attempt to look older. Usually mid 30s is when it starts to look OK. And again neat and close cropped is he way to go in this day and age. jackson
Does facial hair on men over 45 make them look older or younger? Posted: 7/18/2009 9:12:23 AM. 2009 styles I think there really is no set 2009 style.What a relief to live in the times when you can wear any hair style, any dress length, and so on and so on and so on.Rules once were very strict. 
DON'T beard it like Beckham if you want to stay looking young: Research shows facial hair can make a man look TEN years older. 1  A study has shown that a beard can age a man by up to ten years. 2  A moustache can add five years and a goatee adds four. 3  Celebrities whose hair is aging them include David Beckham and Roy Keane. A study has shown that by having a beard men can increase their age appearance by up to ten years, a panel agreed that George Clooney looked five years younger without his beard.
Bradley Cooper, Ryan Gosling and other celebrities who have recently sported facial hair may want to rethink their decision. A new survey finds that men with beards look as much as eight years older than those who are clean shaven, according to a report in the Daily Mail. They then revealed their belief that beards made the men look older -- and the longer the beards, the older they looked. But bearded men can take heart in a separate study conducted earlier this year, showing that women prefer men with heavy stubble over clean-shaven guys.