Species: musculus. Blue whales are the largest baleen whale species--in fact they are the largest animal in the world. Blue whales can grow to be about 100 feet (30.5 meters) in length and may weigh around 160 tons. They are mottled bluish gray, with broad flat heads and a small dorsal fin located in the last forth of the body. 
How long do killer whales live? How do they die? Killer whales have no natural predators (they are the top predators of the oceans) and can live to about 50-80 years old. Killer whales have been hunted by humans but not with enthusiasm as it takes 21 killer whales to produce the same amount of oil as 1 sperm whale. Interesting Facts: 1  Killer whales are social animals that live in stable family-related groups. 2  Killer whales display a high level of care for their offspring. 3  In addition to the mothers, various pod members (mainly adolescent females) perform most of the care for the calves.
humpback whale – While humpback whales can be found traveling all over the world, however they prefer the cold waters in and around the Arctic and Antarctic oceans. Blue Whale – Blue whales can also be found traveling all the major oceans. Depending on the area and environment the whale is in some beluga whales will make seasonal migration trips while others will only travel within a small localized area. Narwhal Whale – Narwhal whales can be found living in or near the Canadian Arctic and Greenlandic waters throughout the year.
Whales live in the oceans of the world, but of course they must surface to breathe air. They are migratory and do not stay in one specific location, which is why whaling ships … had to remain at sea for long periods of time to follow their migrations. The Whale Shark is found in tropical and warm oceans, lives in the open sea with a lifespan of about 70 years in the sea Whale sharks live in warm water (near the equator) bot … h along the coast and in the open seas.
Sperm Whale – Sperm whales can be found in all of the worlds major oceans. Female sperm whales and their young prefer to stay in near tropical waters all year-long while the males can be seen traveling back and forth from the colder climates to the warmer climates during mating periods. Depending on the area and environment the whale is in some beluga whales will make seasonal migration trips while others will only travel within a small localized area. Narwhal Whale – Narwhal whales can be found living in or near the Canadian Arctic and Greenlandic waters throughout the year.
For example killer whales (part of the dolphin family) can be found in all of the major oceans of the world, but are more concerned with migrating to where their food supply goes than where they mate, therefore their prey plays a large role in where the killer whale lives. Depending on the area and environment the whale is in some beluga whales will make seasonal migration trips while others will only travel within a small localized area. Narwhal Whale – Narwhal whales can be found living in or near the Canadian Arctic and Greenlandic waters throughout the year.
Answer by Matthew Parker. Confidence votes 2.6K. Whales live in all the world's oceans, and some smaller ones in various zoos and artificial habitats. The largest numbers of whales live in the cooler regions of the Atlantic and Pacific oceans, and many in the polar oceans (Arctic, Southern, and southern Indian Oceans). The Whale Shark is found in tropical and warm oceans, lives in the open sea with a lifespan of about 70 years in the sea Whale sharks live in warm water (near the equator) bot … h along the coast and in the open seas.
Despite their prevalence in marine parks (think SeaWorld), killer whales (more politely called orcas) are a wide-ranging cetacean species in the wild. Learn more about where killer whales live. Answer: Killer whales are found in all the world's oceans. In fact, the Encyclopedia of Marine Mammals states that they are second only to humans as the most widely distributed mammal in the world.. Areas where killer whales have been well-studied include: 1  The Southern Ocean around Antarctica. 2  The Pacific Northwest (where salmon-eating resident orcas, mammal-eating transient orcas and shark-eating offshore orcas have been identified).
orca. Though killer whales, also called orcas, are considered whales by most people, they are actually members of the Delphinidae (dolphin) family. Killer whales are excellent hunters that a wide range of prey, including fish, seals, and big whales such as blue whales. Interesting Facts: 1  Killer whales are social animals that live in stable family-related groups. 2  Killer whales display a high level of care for their offspring. 3  In addition to the mothers, various pod members (mainly adolescent females) perform most of the care for the calves.
Gray Whale – Gray whales are often found swimming in the eastern and western north pacific ocean during feeding season and will migrate towards the Baja peninsula of mexico and the southern golf of california where they can mate and bare off spring during their mating period. Depending on the area and environment the whale is in some beluga whales will make seasonal migration trips while others will only travel within a small localized area. Narwhal Whale – Narwhal whales can be found living in or near the Canadian Arctic and Greenlandic waters throughout the year.