Jeanne Salvatore of the Insurance Information Institute recommends talking with your insurance agent to determine whether and when you're owed a refund if you should cancel the policy before the policy it expires. Get A Quick, Personalized Auto Quote Today. Having A Dedicated Agent Can Make All The Difference.
You don't want your old insurance company to cancel your policy for nonpayment and report you to the state. And you want a refund of any premiums that may be due. 1  When to switch car insurance. 2  Be sure to get new car insurance first.
This can be the best option as long as you have the same car, don’t have any major changes in your life, and are satisfied with your current auto insurance company. If you experience a life change or you are unhappy with your insurance company, however, you may decide to cancel your policy.
Most states' insurance laws actually require the company to confirm that you have a new policy for your car before cancelling your old policy. The reason is that most insurance companies have to report policies that are cancelled to the state insurance department, so the state can keep track of uninsured drivers.
Car insurance is the easiest way to fulfill this requirement. If you cancel a policy without first putting a new car insurance policy in place, you can face: 1  Fines or penalties for driving uninsured. 2  Liability for all of the personal injury and property damages incurred in an accident you cause.
Car insurance cancellation fee and other costs. Unfortunately, some car insurance companies may charge a special short rate cancellation penalty if you cancel in the middle of a policy term, so be sure to ask before you switch.
If you're on the hunt for a new car insurance company, you don't have to wait until your current policy expires. Esurance offers free quotes online and over the phone, making it easy to shop and switch. It's a driver's market, and this 5-step guide can help you make a stress-free transition.
3. Ask for a refund if you have weeks or months left on the policy. This is especially likely if you are canceling your auto insurance for an unexpected reason, such as a death in the family. If there is time left on the policy and you already paid for the entire year, you may be entitled to a refund.
Cancelling your car insurance is needed from time to time. Knowing when you can cancel your car insurance will make sure your car is covered for the right amount of time. Assuming you know how to cancel your car insurance only leaves the question of when to cancel.