You do not need your passport to travel within the EU except to get out of England which I did with just a few weeks left on it. Outside of the EU you are best to check with the appropriate embassy well before you travel as some places insist your passport be valid for at leat six months.
If I renew my passport now and my passport would expire 10 years after the renewal date it would be valid until December 2022. If I waited until April of 2013 I'd get an extra 4 months, and it would be valid until April 2023.
Most countries require that a passport be valid for at least six months beyond the completion of a trip. If your passport expires sooner than that, you must apply to renew your passport. Please view the Visas section to determine how long a passport must be valid for each specific country of travel.
How long is my US passport valid? If your US passport was issued when you were 16 years old or older, your passport is valid for 10 years. If your US passport was issued when you were 15 years old or younger, your passport is valid for 5 years.
It depends on what country issued your passport. If you have a British Passport, and renew it early, then Time left on your existing passport will be added to your new one-up to a maximum of 9 months. Thus you can have a British passport with an expiry date 10 years and 9 months into the future.
US passports are valid for 10 years from the date they are issued. It seems logical, then, to assume that you should renew your passport two or three months before it expires. In fact, you may need to start the renewal process as early as nine months before your passport's expiration date. Answer:
I have a valid passport. You can apply for a new passport up to 12 months before your current passport expires. Please note that if you apply for a new passport before your current passport expires, the unused validity period of your current passport will not be transferred to your new passport.
Also, if you have a 10 year valid passport, and it expires, and you wait 10 years your next passport would already be expired by the time you get it! – easymoden00b Dec 5 '14 at 15:26. add a comment |. up vote 9 down vote. For USA passports, the new passport is valid for 10 years from the issue date.