North American river otters can live up to 21 years in captivity. They normally live about 8 to 9 years in the wild. North American river otters live alone or in family groups of, usually, females and their young. They are known as playful animals, often seen sliding in mud and snow and playing in the water. North American river otters are semi-aquatic mammals, with long, streamlined bodies, thick tapered tails, and short legs. They have wide, rounded heads, small ears, and nostrils that can be closed underwater. Their whiskers are long and thick. The fur is dark brown to almost black above and a lighter color ventrally
North American river otters, like most predators, prey upon the most readily accessible species. Fish is a favored food among the otters, but they also consume various amphibians (such as frogs), turtles, and crayfish. The North American river otter was first described by German naturalist Johann Christian Daniel von Schreber in 1777. The mammal was identified as a species of otter and has a variety of common names, including North American river otter, northern river otter, common otter and, simply, river otter.
North American river otters are found anywhere there is a permanent food supply and easy access to water. They can live in freshwater and coastal marine habitats, including rivers, lakes, marshes, swamps, and estuaries. North American river otters are semi-aquatic mammals, with long, streamlined bodies, thick tapered tails, and short legs. They have wide, rounded heads, small ears, and nostrils that can be closed underwater. Their whiskers are long and thick. The fur is dark brown to almost black above and a lighter color ventrally
North American river otters live an average of 21 years of age in captivity, but they can reach 25 years of age. However, they normally live about 8 to 9 years in the wild, but are capable of living up to 13 years of age. The North American river otter was first described by German naturalist Johann Christian Daniel von Schreber in 1777. The mammal was identified as a species of otter and has a variety of common names, including North American river otter, northern river otter, common otter and, simply, river otter.
The North American river otter (Lontra canadensis), also known as the northern river otter or the common otter, is a semiaquatic mammal endemic to the North American continent found in and along its waterways and coasts. The North American river otter was first described by German naturalist Johann Christian Daniel von Schreber in 1777. The mammal was identified as a species of otter and has a variety of common names, including North American river otter, northern river otter, common otter and, simply, river otter.
Two characteristics of river otters are that they are solitary and territorial. They are polygamous animals, meaning they mate with more than partner throughout their lifetime. A male will mate with a female and then leave to go mate with others, leaving only the female to raise the young. If she is not interested, she will simply push the male away. The pair will mate and then 60 to 63 days later, a litter of two or three pups will be born. The river otter starts it life usually in late spring and early summer. Baby otters, also known as pups, are very small when they are born, weighing only 4.6 ounces. The mother will give birth to one litter a year
Life History and Reproduction: River otters breed in late winter or early spring. They generally give birth to between one to three pups. The young are blind and helpless when born. They first learn to swim after about two months. River otters generally live alone or in small social groups. Communication: River otters communicate with whistles, yelps, growls and screams, as well as touch and body posture. They also scent mark using scent glands near the base of their tails that produce a strong, musky odor.
North American river otters live in a variety of habitats, but they spend most of their time in or near streams, rivers, lakes and marshes. They often build a den or a burrow in their home territory. They will if necessary, however, travel great distances over land and through water to find food. Unlike other species of otter (notably the well-known sea otter), North American river otters and other webbed-footed otters catch prey with their mouths versus their feet. Although otters are quick swimmers, their skill is shown better in their ability to maneuver rapidly, which helps them chase down their prey.