Step 2. Add the steak tips to the marinade and stir to coat them in the liquid. Cover the bowl with a sheet of plastic wrap and refrigerate the steak tips for one hour. Bison steak tips will benefit from increased marinating time. Refrigerate them for two hours for best results
One of the best ways to cook a sirloin tip steak is to grill it. This is a lean cut of beef. Seasoning the meat first will result in a tasty main dish. Cook the steak whole with a mildly spicy rub, as in the recipe below. You can also cut a sirloin tip steak into pieces to make kabobs. Marinate the meat pieces in an acidic mixture, such as Italian dressing, and then grill. For flavor, marinate in the refrigerator for 15 minutes to two hours before grilling
1 Place steaks on very hot grill and close lid. 2  This will help the sirloin cook from all angles and sear in the juices. 3  Grill the steak with lid down for 4-5 minutes depending on thickness. 4  When grilling steaks, you need to resist the urge to open the lid and look. 1 Preheat the gas grill on high (500 –600 degrees). 2  It's very important to have the temperature right to grill a steak properly. 3  Place steaks on very hot grill and close lid. 4  This will help the sirloin cook from all angles and sear in the juices. 5
Preheat on high for 10-15 minutes with lid down if using a gas grill. 4. Scrape grill clean with grill brush, and adjust heat to medium high. 5. Cook the sirloin tip steaks turning once, for best results cook to medium-rare 135 degrees or medium 145 degrees, but no more, anything more will begin to dry out the steaks. 6.
Sirloin Tip Recipe. 1. Trim off any excess fat, mix together the marinade according to its recipe. For best results place the sirloin tip steak in a resealable plastic food bag with 1/2 to 1 cup(250ml) of marinade, squeeze any air from bag, refrigerate 6-24 hours. 4. Scrape grill clean with grill brush, and adjust heat to medium high. 5. Cook the sirloin tip steaks turning once, for best results cook to medium-rare 135 degrees or medium 145 degrees, but no more, anything more will begin to dry out the steaks. 6.
1 For rare steaks, cook for a total of 1 1/2 minutes on each side. 2  For medium rare steaks, cook for a total of 2 minutes on each side. 3  For medium well steaks, cook for a total of 2 1/2 minutes on each side. 4  For well done steaks, cook for 3 or more minutes on each side. Continue turning the steaks every thirty seconds until they are cooked. 1  For rare steaks, cook for a total of 1 1/2 minutes on each side. 2  For medium rare steaks, cook for a total of 2 minutes on each side. 3  For medium well steaks, cook for a total of 2 1/2 minutes on each side.
1 Plan to serve 1/4 to 1/2 pound per of steak per person. 2  Choose steaks that are at least 1 inch (2.5 cm) thick, and preferably 2 inches (5.1 cm). 3  Thinner steaks will dry out easily when you cook them. 4  Fresh sirloin steak is deep red in color, with a generous marbling of fat. 5  This marbling is what makes steak succulent. Continue turning the steaks every thirty seconds until they are cooked. 1  For rare steaks, cook for a total of 1 1/2 minutes on each side. 2  For medium rare steaks, cook for a total of 2 minutes on each side. 3  For medium well steaks, cook for a total of 2 1/2 minutes on each side.
Brush steak with oil and salt and pepper, to taste. Place a piece of foil on the bottom rack as a drip pan. Place another rack in the position above this and put the steak directly on this rack. Cook steak in this position for 5 minutes. Flip steak and cook for another 5 minutes. Move rack with steak to top position in oven, moving rack with foil and drippings just underneath, and cook for 3 minutes. Flip 1 last time and cook for another 3 minutes. Transfer steak to wire rack and rest for 3 to 5 minutes. 
1 Choose steaks that are at least 1 inch (2.5 cm) thick, and preferably 2 inches (5.1 cm). 2  Thinner steaks will dry out easily when you cook them. 3  Fresh sirloin steak is deep red in color, with a generous marbling of fat. 4  This marbling is what makes steak succulent. Continue turning the steaks every thirty seconds until they are cooked. 1  For rare steaks, cook for a total of 1 1/2 minutes on each side. 2  For medium rare steaks, cook for a total of 2 minutes on each side. 3  For medium well steaks, cook for a total of 2 1/2 minutes on each side.