Best of Nature. When it comes to supplements, Nutrilite® is different – and that’s a good thing. We were using plant ingredients in supplements before anyone else. Leading scientists guiding the future of the Nutrilite® brand. What makes Nutrilite so unique – we combine the best of nature with the best of science. Nutrilite has led the industry in nutritional science for 80 years.
Nutrilite is the only global vitamin and mineral brand to grow, harvest, and process plants on their own certified organic farms. Source: Euromonitor International Limited: Based on a 2010 RSP sales (US$) of Vitamins and Dietary Supplements (VDS) across all retail channels. The NUTRILITE brand has been a global leader in nutrition for more than 75 years because all our NUTRILITE products are made from the highest quality ingredients and then subjected to painstaking research and unparalleled testing. We use only sustainable, chemical-free farming methods on our own 6311 organic acre
BEST OF NATURE. NUTRILITE is a vitamin, mineral and dietary supplement brand that provides a complete range of supplements for an array of needs including general nutrition, heart health, weight management and children’s nutrition. The NUTRILITE brand has been a global leader in nutrition for more than 75 years because all our NUTRILITE products are made from the highest quality ingredients and then subjected to painstaking research and unparalleled testing. We use only sustainable, chemical-free farming methods on our own 6311 organic acres
Some of the unique aspects of this guide include comparison of the Nutrilite Double X multivitamins with 100 other vitamin supplement products, including popular brands such as One-A-Day, GNC, Equate, Kirkland, Shaklee, Nature Made, NOW Foods, Melaleuca, Puritan’s Pride, Herbalife, TwinLab, and Walgreens. The Bottom Line. The Double X multivitamin by Nutrilite is an excellent multivitamin. Consumers can rest assured that Double X provides effective supplements that bring tangible health benefits to people who use them.
Nutrilite is a brand of mineral, vitamin, and dietary supplements created in 1934 by Dr. Carl F. Rehnborg. Nutrilite products are currently manufactured by Access Business Group, a subsidiary of Alticor whose products are sold via the Amway and Amway Global Corporations worldwide. The Nutrilite brand is known as Nutriway in Denmark, Finland, Norway, Sweden, Turkey, Australia and New Zealand. Carl F. Rehnborg created the first multi-vitamin in the 1930s. His time in China between roughly 1917 and 1927 exposed him to experiences in which he realized the role vitamins and nutrients impacted general health. He began selling his vitamins as the California Vitamin company and renamed it in 1939 to Nutrilite.
BEST OF NATURE. Nutrilite is a vitamin, mineral and dietary supplement brand that provides a complete array of supplements for a range of needs, including general nutrition, heart health, weight management, and children’s nutrition. Nutrilite® is the only global vitamin and mineral brand to grow, harvest and process plants on our own certified organic farms. All our farms – over 6311 acres in California, Washington State, Mexico and Brazil – replenish the soil and avoid synthetic pesticides, herbicides and fertilizers.
Vitamin and Mineral Products. Several specific vitamins and minerals are offered in supplement form through Nutrilite. For example, the manufacturer offers calcium supplements that contain the same amount of calcium as 20 ounces of milk, which is more than half of the daily value for the mineral. Miscellaneous Products for Adults. Nutrilite markets several weight-loss products that claim to help you shed excess weight. These products include bars, beverages and supplements. The Nutrilite omega-3 supplement supplies the same omega-3 fatty acids present in fish oil.
Created by Dr. Carl F. Rehnborg, Nutrilite was the first vitamin supplement to hit the market in North America. During the 1920s, Rehnborg realized that people who didn't get enough nutrients in their diet became malnourished, which led to illnesses in many cases. Miscellaneous Products for Adults. Nutrilite markets several weight-loss products that claim to help you shed excess weight. These products include bars, beverages and supplements. The Nutrilite omega-3 supplement supplies the same omega-3 fatty acids present in fish oil.