There are many definitions available. As a scholar of rhetoric, I offer my current definition. Rhetoric is the study and practice of communication that persuades, informs, inspires, or entertains target audiences in order to change or reinforce beliefs, values, habits or actions. After reading this article, I have a better understanding on the definition of rhetoric. Now I see rhetoric as a way of communication to persuade and inform a target audience. Rhetoric is also a study of communication for others.
In brief, “rhetoric” is any communication used to modify the perspectives of others. But this is a very broad definition that calls for more explanation. The OWL’s “ Introduction to Rhetoric ” vidcast explains more what rhetoric is and how rhetoric relates to writing. This vidcast defines rhetoric as “primarily an awareness of the language choices we make.” It gives a brief history of the origins of rhetoric in ancient Greece. Download the free Microsoft PowerPoint Viewer. Understanding and being able to analyze rhetorical situations can help contribute to strong, audience-focused, and organized writing. The PowerPoint presentation in the Media box above is suitable for any classroom and any writing task.
rhetorical. adjective rhe·tor·i·cal \ri-ˈtȯr-i-kəl, -ˈtaer-\. ˈtär. : tweet, of relating, to or concerned with the art of speaking or writing formally and effectively especially as a way to persuade or influence. people Full Definition of RHETORICAL. 1. a: of, relating to, or concerned with rhetoric. 2. a: given to rhetoric: grandiloquent b: verbal. — rhe·tor·i·cal·ly \-i-k(ə-)lē\ adverb. See rhetorical defined for English-language learners. See rhetorical defined for kids.
Something that strikes me is that there are many definitions on what rhetoric is. Rhetoric is using selective words to create an argument that persuades the reader of something. It the manipulation of words to produce a certain thought or reaction from readers. After reading this article, I have a better understanding on the definition of rhetoric. Now I see rhetoric as a way of communication to persuade and inform a target audience. Rhetoric is also a study of communication for others.
That is because rhetoric refers to the art of persuasion through carefully crafted words. Rhetoric can be used as a pejorative term because it suggests that the speaker (or writer) is using words falsely, instead of using plain talk to convey something. On the other hand, crafted words don't have to be false words. In literature, rhetoric is what convinces you to feel a certain way about a topic. It is the art of conveying a point in a convincing, eloquent, and effective way.
Examples of RHETORICAL. 1  My question was rhetorical. 2  I wasn't really expecting an answer. 3  rhetorical. 4  McKinney made her name in Georgia politics as a rhetorical bomb-thrower. 5  Colleagues in the statehouse dubbed her “Hanoi Cynthia” after a 1991 speech denouncing the Persian Gulf War. Full Definition of RHETORICAL. 1. a: of, relating to, or concerned with rhetoric. 2. a: given to rhetoric: grandiloquent b: verbal. — rhe·tor·i·cal·ly \-i-k(ə-)lē\ adverb. See rhetorical defined for English-language learners. See rhetorical defined for kids
Definition. The focused criterion of rhetorical analysis is to read an article keeping in mind the impacts that it produces on the audience. Hence it is the kind of analysis which calls for understanding and representing the views of the masses. 
Rhetoric is the study of effective speaking and writing. And the art of persuasion. And many other things. In its long and vigorous history rhetoric has enjoyed many definitions, accommodated differing purposes, and varied widely in what it included. 
Rhetoric (pronounced /ˈrɛtərɪk/) is the art of discourse, an art that aims to improve the capability of writers or speakers to inform, persuade, or motivate particular audiences in specific situations. Scholars have debated the scope of rhetoric since ancient times. Although some have limited rhetoric to the specific realm of political discourse, many modern scholars liberate it to encompass every aspect of culture.