In this article. Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) is a bacterium that causes infections in different parts of the body. It's tougher to treat than most strains of staphylococcus aureus -- or staph -- because it's resistant to some commonly used antibiotics. The symptoms of MRSA depend on where you're infected. Most often, it causes mild infections on the skin, like sores or boils.
Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) is a type of staph bacteria that is resistant to certain antibiotics called beta-lactams. These antibiotics include methicillin and other more common antibiotics such as oxacillin, penicillin, and amoxicillin. In the community, most MRSA infections are skin infections. 
Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) is a bacteria that is resistant to many antibiotics. In the community, most MRSA infections are skin infections. In medical facilities, MRSA causes life-threatening bloodstream infections, pneumonia and surgical site infections. 
Clinical Definition. MRSA, or methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus Aureus, is a staph bacterium and the cause of certain skin infections in the community and serious hospital-acquired infections as well. S. aureus is common on the skin and in the nose and may be resistant to beta-lactam antibiotics (e.g., methicillin). Serious MRSA infections occur most frequently among patients in hospital settings. In Our Own Words. Staphylococcus Aureus, or S. aureus for short, is a staph bacteria commonly found on the skin and in the nose and is a common cause of skin infections. While many people carry staph bacteria, only a small minority of carriers has MRSA, or methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus Aureus
2 Staph bacteria have developed a resistance to penicillin-related antibiotics, including methicillin-these resistant bacteria are called methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus, or MRSA.  Staphylococcus aureus  (S. aureus) refers to an often harmful bacterium, commonly found in the nose and skin of humans. MRSA, full name methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus, is a form of bacterial infection that is resistant to numerous antibiotics including methicillin, amoxicillin, penicillin and oxacillin.
Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) (/ɛmɑrɛseɪ/ or /ˈmɜrsə/) is a bacterium responsible for several difficult-to-treat infections in humans. It is also called oxacillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (ORSA). MRSA is any strain of Staphylococcus aureus that has developed, through the process of natural selection, resistance to beta-lactam antibiotics, which include the penicillins (methicillin, dicloxacillin, nafcillin, oxacillin, etc.) and the cephalosporins.
MRSA, (methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus), is a form of bacterial infection that is resistant to numerous antibiotics including methicillin, amoxicillin, penicillin and oxacillin, thus making it challenging to treat the infection successfully.1. MRSA, full name methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus, is a form of bacterial infection that is resistant to numerous antibiotics including methicillin, amoxicillin, penicillin and oxacillin.
Introduction. MRSA is a type of bacteria that's resistant to a number of widely used antibiotics. This means MRSA infections can be more difficult to treat than other bacterial infections. The full name of MRSA is meticillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus. You may have heard it called a superbug. 
Definition. Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) infection is caused by a type of staph bacteria that's become resistant to many of the antibiotics used to treat ordinary staph infections. When it occurs in these settings, it's known as health care-associated MRSA (HA-MRSA). HA-MRSA infections typically are associated with invasive procedures or devices, such as surgeries, intravenous tubing or artificial joints. Another type of MRSA infection has occurred in the wider community — among healthy people.