Construction Costs- (Continued from Page 24) Chart B illustrates the range of actual golf course con-struction costs (rounded to the nearest $100,000) for an upscale project, along with the median and the mean. The chart demonstrates a wide range in costs from a low of $3,900,000 to a high of $16,100,000. The chart illustrates that actual construction of the golf course typically accounts for 50 to 55 percent of the total cost (excluding land). Golf course construction includes grading and site preparation costs, and grow-in (also known as maturation).
It's nearly recession-proof. It's cheaper than going to the movies and more social, said Darrell Gillo, who manages Karts N' Golf in Fremont, Calif. On average, it costs $5 to play 18 holes of miniature golf, which makes it one of the cheapest forms of entertainment around. It cost the owners of Karts N' Golf closer to $500,000, according to Gillo, to build out their amusement center. They managed to squeeze two 18-hole miniature golf courses, go-karts and bumper cars on 2.5 acres of land east of San Francisco Bay. Getting started runs Mondays on CNNfn's Small Business page.
1 A game of mini-golf will depend on the location, the number of holes you want to play, and the what else is included at the course. 2  To budget properly, most games of mini golf are going to cost anywhere from $4 to $10 per person. 3  Children are going to often be half the price of an adult ticket. 1 In some areas, mini-golf courses may offer an all-day pass that costs anywhere from $15 to $25 per person. 2  This all-day pass will allow you to play as much as you want within the day. 3  According to DisBoards.com, mini-golf at Disney costs $10.75 per person or half of that rate if you carry an annual pass.
1 To budget properly, most games of mini golf are going to cost anywhere from $4 to $10 per person. 2  Children are going to often be half the price of an adult ticket. 3  In some areas, mini-golf courses may offer an all-day pass that costs anywhere from $15 to $25 per person. 1 In some areas, mini-golf courses may offer an all-day pass that costs anywhere from $15 to $25 per person. 2  This all-day pass will allow you to play as much as you want within the day. 3  According to DisBoards.com, mini-golf at Disney costs $10.75 per person or half of that rate if you carry an annual pass.
Cost of Wisconsin, Inc does it all; including consulting, complete design, model building and the construction of miniature golf, Micro-Golf® and adventure golf courses. If you are interested in the business of mini-golf you should contact Cost of Wisconsin for your design and construction needs. COST is an industry leader in designing and constructing the most interesting, visually appealing, and profitable miniature golf courses. We offer unique prefabricated Micro-Golf(R) courses and one-of-a-kind Adventure G
1 According to DisBoards.com, mini-golf at Disney costs $10.75 per person or half of that rate if you carry an annual pass. 2  Lunar Mini Golf, a glow-in-the-dark miniature golf course located in various malls across the United States, can cost around $6 to $9 per person. 1 In some areas, mini-golf courses may offer an all-day pass that costs anywhere from $15 to $25 per person. 2  This all-day pass will allow you to play as much as you want within the day. 3  According to DisBoards.com, mini-golf at Disney costs $10.75 per person or half of that rate if you carry an annual pass.
Mini Golf Prices. 2014 Casey Jones Mini Golf Prices are listed below: 18 HOLES. Adult (12-99 yrs): $6.00. Child (4-11 yrs): $5.00. 36 HOLES. Adult (12-99 yrs): $11. Child (4-11 yrs): $9. Children younger than 4 years of age are free with a paying adult admission. Casey Jones Mini Golf hours of operation can be found here.
After you approve the initial layout, we will create the construction drawings including plumbing, electrical, topography, and construction details. The cost for this will range from $1,000 to $2,000 (per 18 holes), but could be more if detailed engineering is required by your municipality. An overview plan, drawn to scale, costs from $1,000 to $1,500, (per 18 holes), depending on the size and complexity of your project. 
COST LEVELS The following are examples of what can be included for various budgets. However, every course is custom-designed to fit your individual budget and site. Also, some parts of the country have higher construction costs that are not reflected here. This pricing is similar for indoor courses, as well. Prices are subject to change at any time. 