Medical anthropology is the study of how cultural, ecological, social, and historical forces impact the medicine used in a particular society, as well as how these forces impact individual health, the health of a particular community, and the environmental stability in a region. Ad. The academic discipline of medical anthropology emerged as a response to the preoccupation of the medical community in Europe and North America on clinical hospital training that was prevalent throughout the first half of the 20th century.
Hello!!! …The define the anthropology as the study holistic of human being, I can try to explain to medical anthropology as I see it, where medical anthropology is a means to examine and understand health. Through of a study bio-psycho-socio-cultural, which is interested in health and healing in all its various forms. I`m a student of medicine in Mexico and i just want to say about Medical Anthropology: it is true that medical anthropology, and sociocultural anthropology more generally, spans or links up the humanities and social sciences.
Medical anthropology is a subdiscipline of social anthropology focused on studies of illness, healing, medical care, and biotechnologies across societies. The Program in Medical and Psychiatric Anthropology was launched when Professor Arthur Kleinman came to Harvard in 1982 with appointments in both Social Medicine and Anthropology, and was joined one year later by Profs. Byron Good and Mary-Jo DelVecchio Good.
Furthermore, in Europe the terms anthropology of medicine, anthropology of health and anthropology of illness have also been used, and medical anthropology, was also a translation of the 19th century Dutch term medische anthropologie. Currently, research in medical anthropology is one of the main growth areas in the field of anthropology as a whole and important processes of internal specialization are taking place. For this reason, any agenda is always debatable. In general, we may consider the following six basic fields:
Medical anthropology is an interdisciplinary field which studies human health and disease, health care systems, and biocultural adaptation. It views humans from multidimensional and ecological perspectives. All medical anthropologists are trained in anthropology as their main discipline. Many come from health professions such as medicine or nursing, whereas others come from backgrounds such as psychology, social work, social education or sociology.
Historical background. The relationship between anthropology, medicine and medical practice is well documented. General anthropology occupied a notable position in the basic medical sciences (which correspond to those subjects commonly known as pre-clinical). All medical anthropologists are trained in anthropology as their main discipline. Many come from health professions such as medicine or nursing, whereas others come from backgrounds such as psychology, social work, social education or sociology.
Medical anthropology studies human health and disease, health care systems, and biocultural adaptation. It views humans from multidimensional and ecological perspectives. Currently, research in medical anthropology is one of the main growth areas in the field of anthropology as a whole and important processes of internal specialization are taking place. For this reason, any agenda is always debatable. In general, we may consider the following six basic fields:
1 The discipline of medical anthropology draws upon many different theoretical approaches. 2  It is as attentive to popular health culture as bioscientific epidemiology, and the social construction of knowledge and politics of science as scientific discovery and hypothesis testing. I`m a student of medicine in Mexico and i just want to say about Medical Anthropology: it is true that medical anthropology, and sociocultural anthropology more generally, spans or links up the humanities and social sciences.
The Program in Medical and Psychiatric Anthropology is one of the core academic programs in the Department of Global Health and Social Medicine. The Program in Medical and Psychiatric Anthropology was launched when Professor Arthur Kleinman came to Harvard in 1982 with appointments in both Social Medicine and Anthropology, and was joined one year later by Profs. Byron Good and Mary-Jo DelVecchio Good.
Henry Holt,New York 1996; (Permission given by Prof. McElroy Jan. 21th 2002) Medical anthropology is the study of human health and disease, health care systems, andbiocultural adaptation. 