Orca (Orcinus orca). commonly known as Killer Whale. Species Code: OROR. What they look like: The orca (killer whale) is a toothed whale and is the largest member of the Dolphin family. These large marine mammals are easily distinguished by their black-and-white coloration, large dorsal fin and a sleek, streamlined body. 
Genus : Orcinus. Species: orca. Though killer whales, also called orcas, are considered whales by most people, they are actually members of the Delphinidae (dolphin) family. Killer whales are excellent hunters that a wide range of prey, including fish, seals, and big whales such as blue whales. 
Facts About Orcas. Orcas are the most widely distributed of all whales and dolphins, found in every ocean. But though the species is widespread, orca populations are actually very localized. The orca communities that live in the Pacific Northwest stay in that area, and those in the Antarctic stay south of the Equator. 
According to National Geographic, orcas are considered the largest species of the dolphin family. They weigh up to 6 tons (5,443 kilograms) and grow to 23 to 32 feet (7 to 9.7 meters). That is almost as long as a school bus. The largest orca ever recorded was 32 feet (9.8 m) long, according to Sea World. Killer whales are the most widely distributed mammals, other than humans, according to Sea World. They live in the oceans and seas surrounding most coastal countries. They adapt very well to any climate. For example, they can live in the warm waters near the equator or the icy waters of the North and South Pole regions.
Size. Orcas are known for their long dorsal fin (the fin on the animal's back) and black-and-white coloring. Just behind the dorsal fin is a patch of gray called a saddle — because it looks like a riding saddle. An orca's body is cylindrical and tapers at both ends to form an aerodynamic shape. Killer whales are the most widely distributed mammals, other than humans, according to Sea World. They live in the oceans and seas surrounding most coastal countries. They adapt very well to any climate. For example, they can live in the warm waters near the equator or the icy waters of the North and South Pole regions.
The killer whale (Orcinus orca), also referred to as the orca whale or orca, and less commonly as the blackfish or grampus, is a toothed whale belonging to the oceanic dolphin family, of which it is the largest member. Killer whales are very sophisticated and effective predators of marine mammals. Thirty-two cetacean species have been recorded as killer whale prey, from examining either stomach contents, scarring on the prey's body, or feeding activity.
Audio. Orcas, or killer whales, are the largest of the dolphins and one of the world's most powerful predators. They feast on marine mammals such as seals, sea lions, and even whales, employing teeth that can be four inches (ten centimeters) long. They are known to grab seals right off the ice. Group name: Pod. Size relative to a bus: Orcas, or killer whales, are the largest of the dolphins and one of the world's most powerful predators. They feast on marine mammals such as seals, sea lions, and even whales, employing teeth that can be four inches (ten centimeters) long.
Orca (also called Orca: The Killer Whale) is an American 1977 horror film directed by Michael Anderson and produced by Dino De Laurentiis, starring Richard Harris, Charlotte Rampling, and Will Sampson. It is based on Arthur Herzog 's novel of the same name. 
Killer whales are the most widely distributed marine mammals, found in all parts of the oceans. They are most abundant in colder waters, including Antarctica, the North Atlantic and Pacific Oceans, though they also occur, at lower densities, in tropical, subtropical, and offshore waters. Killer whales most widely distributed marine mammals, found in all parts of the oceans; most abundant in colder waters, including Antarctica, the North Atlantic and Pacific Oceans. They also occur, though