1. The cat will need food and water in order to live. If you do not have a sufficient supply of these items, you should not have a cat. Tap water is usually okay for a cat, but if your water is not clean, do not ever give it to your cat. Filtered Water is better though. To feed your cat, pet and grocery stores sell cat food that usually provides all the nutrients your cat needs. If you want to give your cat a natural diet, do your research. Some foods are dangerous for cats.
Make Cat Repellent at Home. There are many products on the market to repel cats and help to keep cats out of the yard. For instance, citronella is great to use, as it’s not only safe but also works at repelling other animals too. However, you can make cat repellent at home as well.
1 For healthy hair, skin, and body, your cat needs a diet with a good balance of carbohydrates, proteins, and fats, just like you do. 2  And also just like you, if your cat eats nothing but poor quality food that is more difficult to digest, kitty may end up short on vital minerals and vitamins.
This is one way to use natural cat repellents, specifically, to keep cats from pooping in your garden. After all, it's not for nothing we have the expression, pussyfooting around.. I already mentioned chicken wire in this context on Page 1, but below I'll suggest a couple of materials found in nature.
Always take your cat for its regular check-ups at the vet. Make sure it has its shots to keep it from getting disease. Ask your vet for heart worm preventing medicine, especially from spring to fall. It is also a good idea to get your cat neutered/spayed.
9. Better still, make a sandbox just for cats and keep it in close proximity to the catnip plants. Chances are that the sandbox will serve as a magnet for cat poop. Sure, you'll have to clean up the cat poop afterwards.
But, as meticulous as cats are in caring for this treasure, once in a while a kitty’s coat can lose its shine. To find out what’s behind a cat’s blah coat -- and what you can do about it -- WebMD talked to cat nutritionists and veterinarians about how to care for your cat’s coat.
How to keep outdoor cats' food and water from freezing. What you put food and water in can make a difference. A thick plastic water container that's deep and wide is better-insulated than a thin plastic or ceramic container. A solar-heated water bowl can prevent or delay water and canned food