The National SAFEKIDS Campaign recommends that no child under the age of 12 be left at home alone. However, consider a child's age and maturity level. For example, if a child is extremely impulsive, it might be best to wait until he or she is older than 12. There appear to be very few states with specific regulations about the age of a child left at home alone. These states do not set a specific age after which a child legally can stay home alone but do provide recommendations. CARE Latchkey Kids Calling Solutions. DSC provides an easy and secure sign-up procedure (For a quick overview, please visit the registration information web page).
Most experts say that by age 10 or 11, it's OK to leave a child alone for short periods of time (under an hour) during the day, provided they're not scared and you think they're mature enough to handle it. Here are a few factors to consider before turning over the house -- and your other kids -- to your preteen. Most states don't have laws stipulating how old a child needs to be to stay home alone. So the decision is left up to the parents' judgment. It's pretty obvious to most parents that a 5-year-old is too young to be left alone in the house
Below are general guidelines to follow when considering the age range for leaving a child home alone. 7 & under-Should not be left alone for any period of time. This may include leaving children unattended in cars, playgrounds, and backyards. 8 to 10 years-Should not be left alone for more than 1½ hours and only during daylight and early evening hours. 11 to 12 years-May be left alone for up to 3 hours but not late at night or in circumstances requiring inappropriate responsibility. 13 to 15 years-May be left unsupervised, but not overnight. 16 to 17 years-May be left unsupervised (in some cases, for up to two consecutive overnight periods)
The following table lists legal age restrictions for children left at home alone categorized by state within the U.S. Please note that city and county ordinances within each state may have more definitive and restrictive laws. These states do not set a specific age after which a child legally can stay home alone but do provide recommendations. CARE Latchkey Kids Calling Solutions. DSC provides an easy and secure sign-up procedure (For a quick overview, please visit the registration information web page).
The following guidelines are from the National Network for Child Care. There is no single answer to “how old is old enough”. No magical age or single indicator that ensures a child is ready to stay at home alone (or with younger siblings). Some states have made laws that specify an age (e.g. 10 years old) below which it is illegal to leave children alone. Other states (such as California) do not set a specific age, but rather, consider the maturity level of the child.
There is no national law regarding a child’s minimum age to stay home alone. A few states have set forth an age, such as Oregon (10 years) and Maryland (8 years), but the majority are either completely silent on the issue or offer only recommendations. 
Laws for Leaving a Child Home Alone. Only a couple of states have laws that specify the age when a child can be left home alone, including Maryland (age 8) and Illinois (age 14). However, most states have guidelines with the Department of Health and Human Services or other child protective agencies that test a child's ability to be left home alone. 8 to 10 years-Should not be left alone for more than 1½ hours and only during daylight and early evening hours. 11 to 12 years-May be left alone for up to 3 hours but not late at night or in circumstances requiring inappropriate responsibility. 13 to 15 years-May be left unsupervised, but not overnight. 16 to 17 years-May be left unsupervised (in some cases, for up to two consecutive overnight periods)
Maturity Check. Most states don't have laws stipulating how old a child needs to be to stay home alone. So the decision is left up to the parents' judgment. It's pretty obvious to most parents that a 5-year-old is too young to be left alone in the house. Here are a few factors to consider before turning over the house -- and your other kids -- to your preteen. Most states don't have laws stipulating how old a child needs to be to stay home alone.