A man bun is a type of long hairstyle that involves the tying of one’s hair into a single bun to be placed upon the crown area of the head (aka the “vertex”). Other names for the man bun include “bro bun”, “hipster bun”, “mun” or “dude bun”. Likewise, the “man bun” word can be spelled as manbun or man-bun. Going back to the hairstyle itself, the man bun is, in fact, a very simply hairstyle, but there’s one specific requirement for it: that you have long hair. Depending on whether you want a full bun or a semi bun (i.e. a top knot hairstyle), you will need a minimum hair length to be able to tie your manbun
4. Twist your hair around your hand and pony tail base. 5. Pull the end of your hair through, this puts the knot in top knot! :) 6. Tease and style your top knot and, if needed, spray on a little hair spray to finish. You can change up the look of your top knot by leaving bangs our strands of hair out before you begin, or by adding a scarf or ribbon to the base. Dress it up however you like to show off your style! xo. 
A top knot bun is a bundle of hair wound into place on the top of your head. It's an easy hairdo for anyone with hair that is at least shoulder-length or longer. For those with braided locks, there is also a version of the top knot provided here. Method 5 of 8: Hacks for thin hair. 1. If you'd like a top knot and your hair is too thin on its own to make a decent bun, you can use either a weft (extension) or a hair doughnut to help create the impression of more thickness.
I find I wear this hairstyle a lot lately as it’s so quick to do. My hair is long enough now to make a pretty good top knot on it’s own, but this giant top knot has a little secret…padding! Think of it like a Wonderbra for your hair, this donut shaped mesh padding adds a little oomph to turn your bun into a statement. If you have fine or short hair you will love this. I pull at a few sections of hair to keep it a little uneven, and more natural looking. This is such a quick and easy hairstyle that will have you out the door looking fab in only a few minutes. The giant top knot is perfect in second day hair too, as your hair will hold the shape even better.
Absolutely, just make sure that the hair on the top of your head (to be tied as a topknot) is between 6 to 8 inches, and not any longer than 8 inches (as otherwise you will have a man bun undercut and not a top knot undercut!). If you’d like to tie all of your hair (sides and back included) instead of just tying the hair on the top of your head, then you will need at least 10 inches of hair length. Such a type of man bun is what I call a “full” man bun.
A neat trick to work out how many months you will need to get a man bun is to measure your current hair length, subtract your current length from the minimum length of your desired type of man bun (6 inches for semi bun and 10 inches for full bun) and then multiply the result by two. If you’d like to tie all of your hair (sides and back included) instead of just tying the hair on the top of your head, then you will need at least 10 inches of hair length. Such a type of man bun is what I call a “full” man bun.
If all that you want to do is to just tie the hair on the top of your head while the sides and back of the head remain short and untied, then you will need at least 6 inches of hair length to tie a man bun. Such a type of man bun is what I call a “semi” man bun. If you’d like to tie all of your hair (sides and back included) instead of just tying the hair on the top of your head, then you will need at least 10 inches of hair length. Such a type of man bun is what I call a “full” man bun.
A top knot hairstyle is a semi man bun. The hair is kept between 6 to 8 inches long (not any longer) while the hair on the sides and back of the head are kept buzzed with a hair clipper in different types of buzz cuts. If you’d like to tie all of your hair (sides and back included) instead of just tying the hair on the top of your head, then you will need at least 10 inches of hair length. Such a type of man bun is what I call a “full” man bun.