Written by David Frank. This is the follow up graphic from yesterday with the average, maximum and minimum size of college football players for defensive positions. Consistently, the D1-A players are an inch or two taller and 10-15 lbs heavier. 
OUTSIDE LINEBACKER. Ideal size: 6-3, 245. There are several types of outside linebackers. I will break them down into the weak outside linebacker, which itself has two categories, and the strong outside linebacker. On the so-called weak side, there are two distinct categories -- the pass rusher and the pursuit-coverage linebacker. 
We've got height, weight, arm size and hand size for the linebackers on Day 4 of the NFL Scouting Combine. Tweet Share.  Tweet Share on Twitter Share Share on Facebook Pin Pinterest + Comments. We've finally reached Day 4 at the NFL Scouting Combine, which means on-the-field workouts and drills have begun. Offensive linemen, tight ends and placekickers took to the weight room for bench press and the field for the 40-yard dash, but the third group of arrivals are now getting their measurements underway. That includes defensive linemen and linebackers. There are definitely some notable measurements thus far when it comes to the linebackers. Alabama's Adrian Hubbard comes in at 6'6 and 257 pounds, both of which are tops among the position. The biggest hands go to Stanford's Trent Murphy, as he's the only one to eclipse 11 inches at 11 1/8
What is the average size of a high school JV linebacker? Well size is as important as strengh and agility I'm 5'7 160 and that's bout the best size But if you put your effort in the weight. The average salary of an NFL Linebacker is close to 8 million, however there are exceptions. Star players at this position have been known to make up to nearly 20 million, whi … le non starters can make just a few hundred thousand.
2013 NFL Combine results: Linebackers provide height, weight, arm size results. By David Fucillo  @NinersNation on Feb 24, 2013, 6:53a 9. USA TODAY Sports. We take a quick look at the height, weight and hand size of the linebackers at the 2013 NFL Combine. A young linebacker can be groomed as a backup to their all-world linebackers, but he can also become a fixture on special teams. Here are the height, weight and arm size measurements of this year's linebackers.
What is the average height and weight of an nfl fullback? Actually the average size is 6'1 245lbs, 5'9:-6'3 220-265lbs is the smallest to biggest size currently in the NFL. average 40yd dash 4.7, typical body fat percentage is 12-17 … percent. But you can find guys in the 20 percentile Jeremi Johnson and Mike Tolbert. The average salary of an NFL Linebacker is close to 8 million, however there are exceptions. Star players at this position have been known to make up to nearly 20 million, whi … le non starters can make just a few hundred thousand.
The average size for a college lineman is around 304 lbs. In the  late 1990s the average size was at 307 lbs. The average salary of an NFL Linebacker is close to 8 million, however there are exceptions. Star players at this position have been known to make up to nearly 20 million, whi … le non starters can make just a few hundred thousand.
Raekwon McMillan, who is from Georgia, is another huge linebacker at 6'2 and 242 pounds. McMillan could weigh 260 pounds before he leaves college. Outside linebackers are required to play in space on the flanks, so size is usually sacrificed for speed and athleticism. However, Hoza Scott is excellent for an outside linebacker, as he looks bigger than his 6'2, 220-pound listed size would indicate. A 5'11, 195-pound safety is considered average, but 2014 prospects Quin Blanding and Laurence Jones have superior size. Blanding, who is committed to Virginia, is a 6'2 seam-defender who weighs 200 pounds.
The size of a quarterback can vary. It depends on the style of offense that the team is running. If a team is running a pro offense, meaning that the quarterback stands in the … pocket the most of the time, the the typical quarterback is between 6'3 and 6'5 220 lbs to 270 lbs. The average salary of an NFL Linebacker is close to 8 million, however there are exceptions. Star players at this position have been known to make up to nearly 20 million, whi … le non starters can make just a few hundred thousand.