Apple is cautious with its Apple Watch and doesn't market the device as waterproof, instead giving it a water resistance rating of IPX7. Apple says it's fine to wear the watch in the rain or while washing your hands, but the company doesn't recommend submerging the device. Many Apple Watch owners have tested Apple's water resistance claims, coming to the conclusion that the Apple Watch is more water resistant than Apple claims. It's survived submersion in a bucket, laps in a pool, lengthy swim tests, and even a 10m dive with no damage
You should use the Apple Watch to keep track of your fitness activities… unless, that is, those fitness activities involve swimming. Although the Apple Watch is water resistant, it doesn’t come close to being waterproof and you probably shouldn’t even take a shower while wearing it, let alone submerse it underwater.
Apple's estimation of the waterproof rating for Apple Watch has most likely been underplayed, as most technology is, due to certain legal and business reasons. The company gave the wrist-worn device a water resistance rating of IPX7, suggesting it to be splash and water resistant but not completely waterproof. 
No, Apple Watch is splash and water resistant, but not waterproof. The Apple Watch has a water resistance rating of IPX7 under IEC standard 60529. This means the watch will survive if you wash your hands while wearing it or if it gets caught in the occasional rain storm, but you should take it off when swimming. Current Android Wear watches are made to IP67 standards.
Follow Business Insider: If you are considering the Apple Watch as a fitness device, you may have heard that it's not recommended for swimming. The Watch has an official waterproof resistance rating of IPX7, meaning its safe in waters up to 1 meter deep for up to 30 minutes. 
So yes, the Apple Watch is water-resistant and you can probably take it into the pool for no more than 30 minutes, but Apple still recommends you don't. According to the Apple Watch User Guide (bolded for emphasis): Exposure to liquid Apple Watch is water resistant but not waterproof. You may, for example, wear and use Apple Watch during exercise (exposure to sweat is OK), in the rain, and while washing your hands. If water splashes on to the watch, wipe it of with a nonabrasive, lint-free cloth..
By Raymond Wong. Exposure to liquid Apple Watch is water resistant but not waterproof. You may, for example, wear and use Apple Watch during exercise (exposure to sweat is OK), in the rain, and while washing your hands. If water splashes on to the watch, wipe it of with a nonabrasive, lint-free cloth... According to the Apple Watch User Guide (bolded for emphasis):
It turns out that the Apple Watch will be just fine with a little water, but don’t plan on wearing it while swimming. Tech journalist David Pogue learned a couple of things about Apple’s new wearable in a private briefing during today’s media event. Apple told him that its watch is “water resistant,” not waterproof. “Sweating, wearing it in the rain, washing your hands, or cooking with it is fine. Take it off before the swim or get in the shower, though.”. That’s a major bummer for those hoping to use the watch’s fitness tracking abilities in the water. Cannot wait to see the waterproof apple watch cases. Hilarious! Most watches come with a water proof case… the watch. That’s a turn off for me, I don’t take my omega and Rolex off my hand when I shower or go for a swim…I see myself forgetting this one on …not that I’m planning to by one since it’s not waterproof.
1 Waterproof or not: According to Apple, Apple Watch is splash and water resistant but not waterproof. 2  You can, for example, wear and use Apple Watch during exercise, in the rain, and while washing your hands, but submerging Apple Watch is not recommended. 1 You can, for example, wear and use Apple Watch during exercise, in the rain, and while washing your hands, but submerging Apple Watch is not recommended. 2  Apple Watch has a water resistance rating of IPX7 under IEC standard 60529. 3  The leather bands are not water resistant..