Step 3: Charge the battery at a 10-amp rate. 42 amp-hours needed by the battery divided by 10 amp charge = it will take around 4-1/2 hours to recharge the battery. Fast charge: Repeated fast charges on a battery may overcharge a battery and reduce service life. Step 1: Determine how long to recharge a battery by calculating how much capacity your battery has. For example, an Interstate battery with the part number MT-34 has 120 minutes reserve capacity.
Idling a car for 5-10 minutes will not recharge a battery. It MIGHT replace a bit of the charge lost to starting it in the first place, but even that is iffy. The alternator in your car will need to hit, roughly, 2000 engine rpm to push a charge back to the battery. Keep the top of the battery clean, not just the posts. 
How to charge a battery. An average car battery has a capacity of around 48 amp hours which means that, fully charged, it delivers 1 amp for 48 hours, 2 amps for 24 hours, 8 amps for 6 hours and so on. It uses mains current to replace the battery's lost. through positive and negative leads that clip to the corresponding battery posts
A basic charger usually charges at around 2 amps-and so needs 24 hours to deliver the 48 amps needed to fully charge a flat, 48 amp hour battery. But there is a wide range of chargers with different charge rates on the market-from 2 to 10 amps. The higher the charge output, the faster a flat battery is recharged. It uses mains current to replace the battery's lost. through positive and negative leads that clip to the corresponding battery posts. An average car battery has a capacity of around 48 amp hours which means that, fully charged, it delivers 1 amp for 48 hours, 2 amps for 24 hours, 8 amps for 6 hours and so on.
The more discharged that a battery is, then the longer it will take to recharge it. Usually it takes several hours to effectively recharge a battery. If a battery is very discharged then it can take up to 12 hours or more to recharge it. While recharging a battery, if the battery becomes hot when you touch it then stop charging it. Slow charge: It is best to slow charge the battery. Slow charging rates vary depending on the battery's type and capacity. Fast charge: Repeated fast charges on a battery may overcharge a battery and reduce service life. Step 1: Determine how long to recharge a battery by calculating how much capacity your battery has. For example, an Interstate battery with the part number MT-34 has 120 minutes reserve capacity.
To fully recharge a battery, you will need 14.1 to 14.8 volts at 80 degrees F, depending on the battery type. If you use a converter or converter/inverter, then you should fully charge your batteries at least once per week. If the battery will not hold a charge, the charging current does not drop below 2% (C/50), and is warm or hot, then it might have some permanent sulfation. Please refer to Section 16 for more information about sulfation and how to remove it.
1 If your battery is not fully charged, try recharging it with a quality, 12V battery charger. 2  Then allow the car battery to rest, unused, for about 12 hours or overnight and retest. 3  If the battery tests low once again, in all probability you need to replace it. 
For example, if 50 amp hours has been consumed from a 100 amp hour battery, then you do not want to recharge it at rate any greater than 25 amps in one hour. At a 25 amp charging rate, it should take approximately two hours to get to a 80% State-of-Charge. If the battery will not hold a charge, the charging current does not drop below 2% (C/50), and is warm or hot, then it might have some permanent sulfation. Please refer to Section 16 for more information about sulfation and how to remove it.
A fully charged “12 volt” battery will be at about 12.6V The charger may well take it up to 14.4 or so while charging. About 12.2 volts is 50% and 11.8 is approaching dead. (these voltages at no load, the battery at rest). Anything under 11.0 may indicate a dead cell. During the constant-current charge, the battery charges to about 70 percent in 5–8 hours; the remaining 30 percent is filled with the slower topping charge that lasts another 7–10 hours. The topping charge is essential for the well-being of the battery and can be compared to a little rest after a good meal.
Charging at a lower rate will not hurt the batteries, it will just take a much longer time to reach full charge. You have to be aware that charging rate and current is not linear: A “Dead” battery, at 10.5 volts will accept a lot more current than one at 50% State Of Charge (roughly 12.2 volts) and one at 80% at 12.5V. During the constant-current charge, the battery charges to about 70 percent in 5–8 hours; the remaining 30 percent is filled with the slower topping charge that lasts another 7–10 hours. The topping charge is essential for the well-being of the battery and can be compared to a little rest after a good meal.