Audit Procedures to Detect Fraud. While audits are not designed to root out every instance of fraud, auditors have a responsibility to detect material misstatements in the company's financial statements caused by either fraud or error. Further, the brainstorming meeting is used to set a tone of professional skepticism in the audit. Often, a fraud specialist attends the meeting to provide insight into other frauds committed by similar companies or industries and help identify the client's risk factors.
A fraud audit reviews a company's financial records to check for unauthorized or improper activity. A fraud audit investigation seeks to identify suspicious transactions. Determining whether or not any of the transactions are legitimate is not part of the ordinary audit process. Ad. A fraud audit is a compliance tool that is used by company management to meet its internal and regulatory obligation to guard against illegal activity by employees.
Fraud is defined as the intentional false representation or concealment of a material fact for the purpose of inducing another to act upon it to his or her injury (as defined by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants). According to the WIU Policy on Fraud, an employee who discovers or suspects fraudulent activity should contact the Internal Auditing Office immediately. If the suspect is a member of the Internal Auditing Office, the President and Ethics Officer/Legal Counsel will be notified.
Fraud encompasses a variety of irregularities and illegal acts characterized by intentional deception. The elements of fraud are: 1  A representation about a material fact. 2  Which is false. 3  And made intentionally, knowingly, or recklessly. 4  Which is believed. 5  And acted upon by the victim. 6  To the victim’s damage.
Save. A fraud audit is a meticulous review of financial documents, while one searches for the point where the numbers and/or financial statements do not mesh. Fraud audits are done when fraud is suspected. Patterns. There are patterns to every fraud case--these help fraud auditors uncover illegal activity. Many criminals perpetrating a fraud will believe that he is too good to be caught or that the scheme is original.
Not an Investigation. Fraud auditing is used to identify fraudulent transactions, not to figure out how they were created. It is a common mistake that many people make---believing that audit and investigation are the same process. Patterns. There are patterns to every fraud case--these help fraud auditors uncover illegal activity. Many criminals perpetrating a fraud will believe that he is too good to be caught or that the scheme is original.
Accountants and auditors are responsible for detecting and deterring fraud by evaluating accounting systems for weaknesses, designing and monitoring internal controls, determining the degree of organizational fraud risk, interpreting financial data for unusual trends, and following up on fraud indicators. 
Top 10 facts about the world. A fraud audit is a review of the financial records of a company by an in-house or independent auditor in an attempt to identify unauthorized and improper activity. Determining whether or not any of the transactions are legitimate is not part of the ordinary audit process. Ad. A fraud audit is a compliance tool that is used by company management to meet its internal and regulatory obligation to guard against illegal activity by employees.
Fraud Brainstorming Session. Under generally accepted auditing standards, audit engagement teams must hold a fraud brainstorming session at the beginning of the audit. This session, led by the partner in charge of the audit, is designed to provide a time for the audit team to consider how the company could commit fraud. Further, the brainstorming meeting is used to set a tone of professional skepticism in the audit. Often, a fraud specialist attends the meeting to provide insight into other frauds committed by similar companies or industries and help identify the client's risk factors.