3) motor neurons —carry impulses from the brain and spinal cord to muscles or glands. The Response Mechanism. When a stimulus is received by a sensory neuron, the impulse (or message) is carried through fibrous extensions called dendrites to the cell body.
Neurons. Neurons carry impulses from one place to another, around the many parts of the nervous system. They connect receptors to the central nervous system and also connect one part of the nervous system to another, for example in the brain and spinal cord. They also carry impulses from the nervous system to effector organs, such as muscles and glands. When neurons are stimulated they transmit an electrical impulse.
1 Transmit nerve impulses: Nerves are able to transmit impulses along the length of the nerve cell in the form of an electrical signal (like power lines). 2  These electrical signals move from one end of the nerve cell to another and can pass from nerve to nerve (power pole to power pole).
Sensory neurons receive impulses and carry them from the sense organs to the spinal cord or brain. Interneurons connect sensory and motor neurons and interpret the impulse. Motor neurons carry impulses from the brain and spinal cord to muscles or glands. 1  Draw and label the structure of a typical nerve cell. 2  Explain how an impulse moves along a neural pathway.
Neurons • Neurons –cells that transmit nerve impulses•3 Types of Neurons –Sensory neurons carry impulses from sense organs to the spinal cord and brain–Motor neurons carry impulses from the brain and spinal cord to muscles and glands–Interneurons connect sensory and motor neurons and carry impulses between them.
1) sensory neurons —receive impulses and carry them from the sense organs to the spinal cord or brain. 2) interneurons —connect sensory and motor neurons and interpret the impulse; only in the brain and spinal cord.
The Neuron. The neuron, a nerve cell, is the functional unit of the nervous system that carries the impulse (the message) to the appropriate part of the nervous system or interprets the impulse and allows a response. There are three types of neurons and each has different functions.