Try to take sertraline at the same time each day. It may take up to four weeks after starting this treatment before you feel the full benefit. Do not stop taking it, feeling it is not helping. Tell your doctor if you feel that you are not getting any better, or if you experience any troublesome side-effects. An anxiety disorder is a condition where anxiety is a major symptom. Panic disorder, social anxiety disorder, and post-traumatic stress disorder are all anxiety disorders. OCD is a condition where you have recurring and persistent ideas that make you do repetitive actions.
Before taking sertraline, tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are allergic to it; or if you have any other allergies. This product may contain inactive ingredients, which can cause allergic reactions or other problems. Talk to your pharmacist for more details. ZOLOFT® (sertraline hydrochloride) is a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) for oral administration. It has a molecular weight of 342.7. Sertraline hydrochloride has the following chemical name: (1S-cis)-4-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)-1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-N-methyl-1-naphthalenamine hydrochloride.
Sertraline is used to treat depression, obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD), panic disorder, premenstrual dysphoric disorder (PMDD), posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD), and social anxiety disorder (SAD). Sertraline belongs to a group of medicines known as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). 
ZOLOFT (sertraline hydrochloride) capsular-shaped scored tablets, containing sertraline hydrochloride equivalent to 25, 50 and 100 mg of sertraline, are packaged in bottles. ZOLOFT 25 mg Tablets: light green film coated tablets engraved on one side with ZOLOFT and on the other side scored and engraved with 25 mg. 
Sertraline is a type of antidepressant called a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) . Serotonin is a neurotransmitter — a chemical that relays signals between the cells in your brain. 
Sertraline does not mix well with drugs. 1  Methadone can make drowsiness worse with sertraline. 2  Taking methadone and sertraline together could make you more likely to get serotonin syndrome. 3  Tell the doctor everything that you have taken. 1 Medicines like sertraline are called selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) because they make the brain think there is more serotonin around than there actually is. 2  This means that the amount of serotonin becomes more normal and the depression becomes better.
Sertraline is an antidepressant in a group of drugs called selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). Sertraline affects chemicals in the brain that may become unbalanced and cause depression, panic, anxiety, or obsessive-compulsive symptoms. 
Sertraline is prescribed for depression, anxiety disorders, and obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) . An anxiety disorder is a condition where anxiety is a major symptom. Panic disorder, social anxiety disorder, and post-traumatic stress disorder are all anxiety disorders. OCD is a condition where you have recurring and persistent ideas that make you do repetitive actions.
1 While you are taking sertraline, you may have thoughts about harming yourself or ending your life. 2  These thoughts may also be associated with your condition. 3  It is very important that you tell your doctor about this if it happens. 4  Do not stop taking sertraline unless your doctor tells you to do so. An anxiety disorder is a condition where anxiety is a major symptom. Panic disorder, social anxiety disorder, and post-traumatic stress disorder are all anxiety disorders. OCD is a condition where you have recurring and persistent ideas that make you do repetitive actions.
If you take ZOLOFT, you should not take any other medicines that contain sertraline (sertraline HCl, sertraline hydrochloride, etc.). • Take ZOLOFT exactly as prescribed. Your. healthcare provider may need to change the. dose of ZOLOFT until it is the right dose for. you. Abnormal bleeding: ZOLOFT and other antidepressant medicines may increase your risk of bleeding or bruising, especially if you take the blood thinner warfarin (Coumadin ® , Jantoven ®), a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAIDs, like ibuprofen or naproxen), or aspirin.