Output from a cDNA microarray used in testing. In genetics, complementary DNA (cDNA) is double-stranded DNA synthesized from a messenger RNA (mRNA) template in a reaction catalysed by the enzyme reverse transcriptase. cDNA is often used to clone eukaryotic genes in prokaryotes. The term cDNA is also used, typically in a bioinformatics context, to refer to an mRNA transcript's sequence, expressed as DNA bases (GCAT) rather than RNA bases (GCAU).
Summary: cDNA stands for complementary DNA or copy DNA and can be single-stranded or double-stranded. cDNA is synthesized in vitro from a mRNA template using reverse transcriptase. The resulted cDNA is single-stranded. This process is called reverse transcription (RT) or first strand cDNA synthesis. In some experiments such as microarray, double-stranded cDNA is required and can be produced by another round of DNA synthesis following the first strand synthesis.
cDNA library. A cDNA library is made using mRNA instead of DNA as the starting material. The mRNA can be extracted from cells of specific tissues from the organism of interest. The “c” in cDNA stands for copy because a double stranded DNA copy is made from a mRNA. Because of the different starting material, cDNA libraries will have some key distinctions from a genomic library. The reasons for the differences above are because of the nature of gene expression.
cDNA construction [edit]. Once mRNA is purified, oligo-dT (a short sequence of deoxy-thymine nucleotides) is tagged as a complementary primer which binds to the poly-A tail providing a free 3'-OH end that can be extended by reverse transcriptase to create the complementary DNA strand. cDNA Library vs. Genomic DNA Library [edit]. cDNA library lacks the non-coding and regulatory elements found in genomic DNA. Genomic DNA libraries provide more detailed information about the organism, but are more resource-intensive to generate and maintain.
cDNA Synthesis & RT-PCR. The ability to synthesize DNA from an RNA template, via reverse transcription, enables researchers to study RNA with the same molecular approaches used for DNA investigations. cDNA generated by reverse transcription can be amplified using polymerase chain reaction (PCR).
Because from those cDNA copies you can do things like PCR amplify a gene of interest, or make a cDNA library and probe it for a specific sequence or activity. There are several advantages to using cDNA as opposed to genomic DNA for doing this: 1  No introns: Eukaryote genes commonly contain introns (non-coding sequences). 2  These are removed after mRNA synthesis so cDNA contains no introns. 3  This means that a cDNA copy of a gene can be isolated as a single, intron-free fragment.
cDNA (Complementary DNA). The term cDNA refers to complementary DNA. cDNA is known to be synthesized, or manufactured from an mRNA or messenger RNA template. It is synthesized in a reaction that is catalyzed by the reverse transcriptase and DNA polymerase enzymes. Once the cDNA is created from such viruses, it is integrated into the genome of the host, where it goes on to create a provirus. Research shows that when a protein is being synthesized, a gene’s DNA is transcribed into an mRNA, which is then translated into a protein.
The purpose of converting mRNA to cDNA is mainly for the analysis of the template mRNA because DNA is much stable than RNA. Once mRNA is converted to cDNA, the cDNA can be used for RT-PCR, as probe for expression analysis and for cloning of the mRNA sequence. The resulted cDNA is single-stranded. This process is called reverse transcription (RT) or first strand cDNA synthesis. In some experiments such as microarray, double-stranded cDNA is required and can be produced by another round of DNA synthesis following the first strand
cDNA is produced from fully transcribed mRNA found in the nucleus and therefore contains only the expressed genes of an organism. Similarly, tissue-specific cDNA libraries can be produced. cDNA Library vs. Genomic DNA Library [edit]. cDNA library lacks the non-coding and regulatory elements found in genomic DNA. Genomic DNA libraries provide more detailed information about the organism, but are more resource-intensive to generate and maintain.