Oatmeal, oat bran and high-fiber foods. Oatmeal contains soluble fiber, which reduces your low-density lipoprotein (LDL), the bad cholesterol. Soluble fiber is also found in such foods as kidney beans, apples, pears, barley and prunes. Soluble fiber can reduce the absorption of cholesterol into your bloodstream. Five to 10 grams or more of soluble fiber a day decreases your total and LDL cholesterol.
Moderate alcohol has been shown to increase HDL; however, it does not lower LDL. Fatty fish, such as salmon, tuna, trout, herring, sardines, and mackerel, contain omega-3 fatty acids, which have been shown to lower triglycerides, a type of fat in the bloodstream. 
HDL (high density lipoprotein) is the good cholesterol. It acts like a cholesterol dump truck, gathering bad cholesterol from the arteries and carrying it back to the liver for clearance. This heart protective effect may even slow the buildup of plaque in the arterial walls of the heart. Fiber, especially soluble fiber, can help bump up your HDL while reducing LDL. Oatmeal is an excellent source of soluble fiber, as is rice, bran, barley, dried peas and beans, and certain fruits like prunes and apples. A couple servings a day of these heart-healthy foods can have a positive effect on your HDL.
Low-density lipoprotein, or LDL cholesterol, is what you may know as bad cholesterol. High LDL levels can cause heart disease, hypertension and stroke. To lower your LDL levels, avoid foods with saturated fats. Having high levels of high-density lipoprotein, or HDL cholesterol, is healthy. HDL cholesterol helps remove LDL cholesterol from your blood, reducing your risk for disease. Plant Sterols. Foods containing plant sterols have high levels of HDL cholesterol. Plant sterols are cholesterol compounds found naturally in plants. In the January 2008 issue of Metabolism, Dr. David Jenkins says that foods high in plant sterols reduced LDL levels of patients by 9 to 14 percent.
4. Fish and shellfish should also be among your good cholesterol foods, they contain the most bio-available animal sources of Omega 3 fatty acids that help increase your HDL counts. Prawns cholesterol is not fully absorbed by the intestines and can not raise our LDL levels contributing to heart disease. Here is a highlight of top 10 good cholesterol foods: 1. Freshly squeezed orange juice is your number one example on how to lower cholesterol naturally due to their high antioxidant content, vitamin C, fiber and bioflavonoids.
8. Green tea is also among good cholesterol foods that contain high levels of antioxidants and polyphenols that actually block the absorption of cholesterol by our bodies. 9. Avocados contain unsaturated fats helping you lower your overall cholesterol count and raise good cholesterol levels. Here is a highlight of top 10 good cholesterol foods: 1. Freshly squeezed orange juice is your number one example on how to lower cholesterol naturally due to their high antioxidant content, vitamin C, fiber and bioflavonoids.
We look at foods that boost your levels of HDL-the so-called 'good' cholesterol that can lessen your chances of a heart attack or stroke. Beans and lentils. All types of beans-from chick peas to lentils and even plain old baked beans-can help to boost your levels of good cholesterol. Oats. Many studies now show that oats help to reduce the amounts of bad cholesterol in the body and boost good HDL cholesterol levels. This is because oats contain something called beta glucans, a fibre that dissolves and sticks to the walls of the intestine. This interferes with the absorption of ba
Fish such as salmon, trout, tuna, mackerel and herring contain an active ingredient called omega-3 fatty acids which has been proven to boost levels of good cholesterol. Olive oil. Although olive oil is a fat it is a monounsaturated fat which has been shown to both reduce bad cholesterol and boost good cholesterol. Oats. Many studies now show that oats help to reduce the amounts of bad cholesterol in the body and boost good HDL cholesterol levels. This is because oats contain something called beta glucans, a fibre that dissolves and sticks to the walls of the intestine. This interferes with the absorption of ba