Answer. KCC is Knowledge Consistency Checker, which creates the connection object that links the DCs into common replication topology and dictates the replication routes between one DC to another in Active Directory forest.
The KCC uses the information in Active Directory to identify the least-cost routes for replication between sites. If a domain controller is unavailable at the time the replication topology is created, making replication through that site impossible, the next least-cost route is used.
KCC and Topology Generation. The KCC is a built-in process that runs on all domain controllers. It is a dynamic-link library that modifies data in the local directory in response to systemwide changes, which are made known to the KCC by changes to the data within Active Directory. The KCC generates and maintains the replication topology for replication within sites and between sites.
The Knowledge Consistency Checker (KCC) is an Active Directory component that is responsible for the generation of the replication topology between domain controllers.
The KCC maintains a list of connections, called a replication topology, to other domain controllers in the site. The KCC ensures that changes to any object are replicated to all site domain controllers and updates go through no more than three connections. Also an administrator can configure connection objects.
Although the work done by the KCC is evidenced by the automatically generated connection objects that are visible in Active Directory Sites and Services, there is no UI component for managing the KCC per se. Most replication tasks that affect the KCC can be managed by using Active Directory Sites and Services.
When you install Active Directory, the installation process creates a server object in the Servers container within the site to which the IP address of the domain controller maps. There is one server object for each domain controller in the site.
The KCC is a built-in process that runs on all domain controllers and generates replication topology for the Active Directory forest. The KCC creates separate replication topo … logies depending on whether replication is occurring within a site (intrasite) or between sites (intersite).