Fortunately, if a patient suffers an adverse reaction to morphine or codeine, he or she will rarely exhibit the same symptoms from a drug in one of the other opioid classes. If the allergy manifests itself as a skin rash, such as blisters or hives, you may be given a type of patch known as a diagnostic patch test. A “true” allergic reaction has to do with the immune system. If you have an immune system which does not respond well to morphine, alternate drugs, including a different class of opiates may be prescribed to handle the pain you’re experiencing.
Symptoms Of Allergic Reaction To Morphine. Some of the common morphine allergy symptoms include, 1  Allergic dermatitis is often manifested in the form of skin rash, are a common symptom associated with allergy to morphine. 2  The rash may be in the form of hives or blisters. 3  Confirmation of allergy to morphine is done by using diagnostic patch test. Morphine Poisoning is associated with toxic reaction of the body for allergic reaction or overdose. Some of the symptoms associated with morphine poisoning include the following, 1  Respiratory depression with bronchospasm results in ability to breath. 2  Fall in blood pressure associated with circulatory failure.
Allergic dermatitis occurs when an allergic reaction causes a skin rash. These rashes can assume a variety of forms, from hives to blisters. People who suspect that their skin rash is related to morphine allergy can be given a diagnostic patch test to confirm whether morphine is indeed the cause of their symptoms.
A very serious allergic reaction to this drug is rare. However, get medical help right away if you notice any symptoms of a serious allergic reaction, including: rash, itching/swelling (especially of the face/tongue/throat), severe dizziness, trouble breathing. This is not a complete list of possible side effects.
1 Nasal Congestion is another way in which morphine allergy may manifest. 2  Nasal congestion is often associated with watery eyes, runny nose and burning in the eyes. 3  This allergic reaction is attributed to the release of histamines into the blood, due to exposure to the allergen, morphine. Morphine Poisoning is associated with toxic reaction of the body for allergic reaction or overdose. Some of the symptoms associated with morphine poisoning include the following, 1  Respiratory depression with bronchospasm results in ability to breath. 2  Fall in blood pressure associated with circulatory failure.
Morphine causes a wide range of side-effects. However, severe reactions such as respiratory depressions and pronounced hypotension are uncommon when the drug is used therapeutically. Drop in blood pressure due to a cardiac infarction or hypovolemia can have dangerous results. Constipation is the most important problem in long-term treatment
A very serious allergic reaction to this drug is rare. However, seek immediate medical attention if you notice any symptoms of a serious allergic reaction, including: rash, itching/swelling (especially of the face/tongue/throat), severe dizziness, trouble breathing. This is not a complete list of possible side effects. 
Morphine allergy: Taking morphine (a painkiller) can cause an allergic response in some people however this is considered rare. It involves the body's immune system overreacting to the drug. The type and severity of symptoms can vary considerable though skin symptoms are the most common allergic response to drugs. More detailed information about the symptoms, causes, and treatments of Morphine allergy is available below. 
However, seek immediate medical attention if you notice any symptoms of a serious allergic reaction, including: rash, itching /swelling (especially of the face/ tongue /throat), severe dizziness, trouble breathing. This is not a complete list of possible side effects. Morphine has a high risk for abuse and severe, possibly fatal, breathing problems. The risk for harm is higher if you use the wrong dose/strength, or if you use it along with other drugs that might also affect