Common knowledge says that beans are a great way to blind-bake pie crusts and get them to hold their shape before putting in your filling. That's great, but then you can't eat the beans afterward: they take on a rather unpleasant smell. CHOW points out that the process of baking the beans a few times causes a chemical reaction called pyrolysis, where the sugars and amino acids in the beans start to give off
Baked beans over scrambled eggs on toast. Baked beans is a dish containing beans, sometimes baked but, despite the name, usually stewed, in a sauce. Most commercial canned baked beans are made from haricot beans, also known as navy beans – a variety of Phaseolus vulgaris in a sauce. In Ireland and the United Kingdom, a tomato and sugar sauce is most commonly used, and they are commonly eaten on toast or as part of a full English breakfast. American Boston baked beans use a sauce prepared with molasses and salt pork, the popularity of which has led to the city being nicknamed Beantown. Beans in a tomato and brown sugar, sugar or corn syrup sauce are a widely available type throughout the US. Canada's Quebec-style beans often use maple syrup
1 Drain beans, reserving the liquid. 2  Baked Beans Tip: You can get a head start on baked beans by soaking them (Step 1) and cooking them (Step 2) in advance. 3  Cover and store the soaked, cooked beans in the refrigerator for up to 3 days, then continue as directed below. 1 Let the salty liquid drain from the beans, then rinse the beans under cool running water and allow the water to drain. 2  Repeat with each can. 3  Baked Beans Tip: Draining and rinsing helps reduce the sodium in the bean recipe.
My mom used to make baked beans similar to these, but she used canned kidney beans. So that's what I did. I used 2 14oz cans of kidney beans with the liquid. And instead of ketchup, I used 1tbsp of Thai sriracha. I also didn't use an onion because I didn't have one, so I substituted one clove of crushed garlic. 
1. Prep the Bacon and Onions. 1  Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. 2  Drain bacon on paper towels, reserving 2 tablespoons of the drippings in the pan. 3  Add 1/2 cup chopped onion (about 1 small) to the reserved drippings. 4  Cook and stir over medium heat about 4 minutes or until the onion is tender. 1 Let the salty liquid drain from the beans, then rinse the beans under cool running water and allow the water to drain. 2  Repeat with each can. 3  Baked Beans Tip: Draining and rinsing helps reduce the sodium in the bean recipe.
1 Drain and rinse the beans, discarding the soaking liquid. 2  Baked Beans Tip: If you have a little extra time, rather than boiling the beans, you can simply place them in the 8 cups water in the Dutch oven. 3  Cover and let them soak in a cool place overnight. 1 Let the salty liquid drain from the beans, then rinse the beans under cool running water and allow the water to drain. 2  Repeat with each can. 3  Baked Beans Tip: Draining and rinsing helps reduce the sodium in the bean recipe.
(If skillet is not large enough, add beans and heat to a simmer then transfer to a large bowl and stir in remaining ingredients). Pour flavored beans into a greased 13-by 9-inch (or similar size) ovenproof pan. Top with bacon, then bake until beans are bubbly and sauce is the consistency of pancake syrup, about 2 hours. 
Today, most people prepare baked beans with a can opener. That's too bad, because the savory-sweet flavor and deep reddish-brown color of Boston baked beans can be so much better than anything you'll get out of a can. We've developed our recipe for baked beans to leverage the speed of pressure-cooking, but without sacrificing flavor. Tomato paste and Worcestershire sauce provide a potent savory umami taste. Brown sugar and molasses add sweetness that isn't cloying.
4. Bake the Beans. 1  Cover the casserole and bake for 2-1/2 hours or to desired consistency. 2  Baked Beans Tip: Some cooks like their beans saucy, while some prefer them more dry. 3  If you like them saucy, add additional reserved bean liquid during cooking. 1 Let the salty liquid drain from the beans, then rinse the beans under cool running water and allow the water to drain. 2  Repeat with each can. 3  Baked Beans Tip: Draining and rinsing helps reduce the sodium in the bean recipe.