liver disease, any one of a group of disorders of the liver. Characteristics of liver disease are jaundice, anorexia, hepatomegaly, ascites, and impaired consciousness. The exact diagnosis of liver disease is made through a combination of laboratory tests and clinical findings. Many liver diseases are acquired from infection and exposure of the liver to toxic substances such as alcohol or drugs. In some areas of the world (although not the United States) liver parasites are a common cause of liver disease.
This system of bile production by the liver, transport through the bile ducts, and storage in the gall bladder is called the biliary system. Damage to this system is called biliary disease. The liver receives blood that comes directly from the intestines. Many liver diseases are acquired from infection and exposure of the liver to toxic substances such as alcohol or drugs. In some areas of the world (although not the United States) liver parasites are a common cause of liver disease.
Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease. Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease is a term used to describe the accumulation of fat in the liver of people who drink little or no alcohol. Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease is common and, for most people, causes no signs and symptoms and no complications. But in some people with nonalcoholic fatty liver disease, the fat that accumulates can cause inflammation and scarring in the liver.
1 Alcoholic liver disease is a hepatic manifestation of alcohol overconsumption, including fatty liver disease, alcoholic hepatitis, and cirrhosis. 2  Analogous terms such as drug-induced or toxic liver disease are also used to refer to disorders caused by various drugs. Liver disease (also called hepatic disease) is a type of damage to or disease of the liver.
Liver disease: Liver disease refers to any disorder of the liver. The liver is a large organ in the upper right abdomen that aids in digestion and removes waste products from the blood. Liver disease includes the following conditions: 1  Cirrhosis, or scarring of the liver. 2  Inflammation (hepatitis) from infectious (hepatitis B, hepatitis C) or non-infectious causes (chemical or autoimmune hepatitis). 3  Tumors, benign and malignant (liver cancer)
The liver is essential for digesting food and ridding your body of toxic substances. Liver disease can be inherited (genetic) or caused by a variety of factors that damage the liver, such as viruses and alcohol use. Obesity is also associated with liver damage. Over time, damage to the liver results in scarring (cirrhosis), which can lead to liver failure, a life-threatening condition. 1  Symptom