Familiarity information: NAIF used as a noun is very rare. • NAIF (adjective). The adjective NAIF has 1 sense: 1. marked by or showing unaffected simplicity and lack of guile or worldly experience. Familiarity information: NAIF used as an adjective is very rare.
The first thing you should know if you are considering Naif for your baby's name is that in most countries all over the world the name Naif is a boy name. The name Naif is of Arabic origin, and is used mostly in Arabic speaking countries but also in a few other countries and languages of the world. If you consider naming your baby Naif we recommend you take note of the special meaning and history of the name as your baby’s name will play a big role in its life and your baby will hear it spoken every day.
Naif Name Meaning. The meaning of Naif is “Lofty, sublime”. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. If you consider naming your baby Naif we recommend you take note of the special meaning and history of the name as your baby’s name will play a big role in its life and your baby will hear it spoken every day.
Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Naif and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Naif and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. If you consider naming your baby Naif we recommend you take note of the special meaning and history of the name as your baby’s name will play a big role in its life and your baby will hear it spoken every day.
[ 2 syll. nai (f), na-if ] The baby boy name Naif is pronounced Naa-IY-F †. Naif's origin, as well as its use, is in the Arabic language. Naif is a variant of Na'if (Arabic). Naif is not popular as a baby name for boys. It is not listed within the top 1000 names. Baby names that sound like Naif include Na'if (Arabic), Nabeeh (Arabic), Nabha (Indian), Nabhea, Nabhey, Nabhi, Nabhie, Nabhy, Nabih (Arabic), Najeab, Nappie, Nappy, Nava (Hebrew), Navey, Navi, Navie, Navy, Nawwaf (Arabic), Nayef, and Nebo.
Find Naif meaning and definition at Hamariweb.com name dictionary a Best place to find your accurate name meanings in Urdu. Naif name reviews, Origin, gender, rating an many more about Naif. 
List of Arabic baby names, Arabic baby boy names (male), girl names (female) & Arabic names meanings has been compiled from various resources. Please use this list of Arabic baby names only for reference/idea to name your kid/child. Database of baby names has been compiled from various references and suggestions provided by our web site visitors and resources partners. Meaning of Naif in Arabic origin/culture for Boy name with history and fame details. Self-awareness test of the baby. Performing the self-awareness test of the baby is quite simple. If you put a red dot on the baby’s forehead and show him the mirror, notice what he does. If they rub the dot, they are aware, else not.
naif [BACK TO TOP]. Meaning: Marked by or showing unaffected simplicity and lack of guile or worldly experience. Synonyms: naif; naive. Context examples: a teenager's naive ignorance of life / the naive assumption that things can only get better / this naive simple creature with wide friendly eyes so eager to believe appearances. • NAIF (adjective). The adjective NAIF has 1 sense: 1. marked by or showing unaffected simplicity and lack of guile or worldly experience. Familiarity information: NAIF used as an adjective is very rare.
Here are pictures of people with the name Naif. Help us put a face to the name by uploading your pictures to BabyNames.com!