When the phrase Myers Briggs is used in the name of a personality questionnaire, it refers specifically to the commercial Myers-Briggs Type Indicator® instrument, published by Consulting Psychologists Press. However, there are many alternative questionnaires that produce a similar result. There is a lot to Myers Briggs theory, though at its heart are four simple preferences. Do you prefer to deal with: 1  People and things (Extraversion or E), or ideas and information (Introversion or I). 2  Facts and reality (Sensing or S), or possibilities and potential (Intuition or N).
The purpose of the Myers-Briggs Type Indicator® (MBTI ®) personality inventory is to make the theory of psychological types described by C. G. Jung understandable and useful in people's lives. Your Personality Type: When you decide on your preference in each category, you have your own personality type, which can be expressed as a code with four letters. The 16 personality types of the Myers-Briggs Type Indicator ® instrument are listed here as they are often shown in what is called a type table..
In 1985 the Myer Emporium (and Target, its discount department store) merged with GJ Coles & Coy forming Coles Myer Limited, then Australia's largest retailer. Myer remained a distinct entity within the new corporate structure until it was sold in 2006. The MYER one program was introduced in August 2004 after Coles Myer discontinued its shareholder discount card the previous month. It initially credited 1-point per $1 spent up to $2500 per annum; 1.5 points per $1 spent from $2500 to $5000 per annum; and 2 points per $1 spent for $5000+ per annum.
Myer retails a broad range of products across women's, men's and children's clothing, footwear and accessories; cosmetics and fragrance; homewares; electrical; furniture and bedding; toys; books and stationery; food and confectionery; and travel goods. Myer's main department store rival is David Jones. The MYER one program was introduced in August 2004 after Coles Myer discontinued its shareholder discount card the previous month. It initially credited 1-point per $1 spent up to $2500 per annum; 1.5 points per $1 spent from $2500 to $5000 per annum; and 2 points per $1 spent for $5000+ per annum.
Myers is an English origin and German origin surname. The English surname traces its origins to Anglo-Saxon England, from the Old English word maire (originally maior) meaning Mayor. The German origin of the surname MYERS has the meaning steward or bailiff, as in the magistrate of a city or town. 
The Myer retail group was started by Sidney Myer, who migrated from Russia to Melbourne in 1899 with very little money and little knowledge of English to join his elder brother, Elcon Myer (1875–1938), who had left Russia two years earlier. They opened the first Myer store in Bendigo, Victoria in 1900. The MYER one program was introduced in August 2004 after Coles Myer discontinued its shareholder discount card the previous month. It initially credited 1-point per $1 spent up to $2500 per annum; 1.5 points per $1 spent from $2500 to $5000 per annum; and 2 points per $1 spent for $5000+ per annum.
Also referred to by many as the Myers-Briggs test, the Myers-Briggs personality test, the MBTI test, or even “that personality test”, the Myers-Briggs® assessment traces the patterns in your behavior to one of 16 distinct personality types. 
Profiles of the Sixteen Personality Types. Get in-depth information on Briggs Myers' 16 personality types, including top careers, relationships, and core values and motivations. Understand your personality type like never before and discover how you can use your strengths to create a happy and satisfying life. Isabel Briggs Myers created the sixteen personality types with the help of her mother, Katharine Briggs, and the theories of psychologist Carl Jung.
The phrase Myers Briggs is most often used to describe a personality theory developed by Isabel Briggs Myers and her mother Katherine Briggs. It explains some of the main differences between people and is often used to help choose a career, improve relationships, develop leadership skills, etc. There is a lot to Myers Briggs theory, though at its heart are four simple preferences. Do you prefer to deal with: 1  People and things (Extraversion or E), or ideas and information (Introversion or I). 2  Facts and reality (Sensing or S), or possibilities and potential (Intuition or N).
In developing the Myers-Briggs Type Indicator [instrument], the aim of Isabel Briggs Myers, and her mother, Katharine Briggs, was to make the insights of type theory accessible to individuals and groups. They addressed the two related goals in the developments and application of the MBTI instrument: Your Personality Type: When you decide on your preference in each category, you have your own personality type, which can be expressed as a code with four letters. The 16 personality types of the Myers-Briggs Type Indicator ® instrument are listed here as they are often shown in what is called a type table..