The only way that a battery can freeze is if it is left in a state of partial or complete discharged. As the state of charge in a battery decreases, the electrolyte becomes more like water and the freezing temperature increases. The freezing temperature of the electrolyte in a fully charged battery is -92.0oF. At a 40% state of charge, electrolyte will freeze if the temperature reaches approximately 16.0oF. Water is lost during charging. Therefore, the best time to water your batteries is always at the end of the charge cycle. However, if the electrolyte level is extremely low or the plates are exposed to air, add some water to cover the plates before starting
But if a battery is discharged because of damage to cells, poor connections or a charging system that isn't doing its job, the battery could start freezing at the same temperature as water. A 100 percent fully charged battery will not freeze until approximately minus 76 degrees Fahrenheit. A fully discharged battery can freeze at or around 32 degrees, Kimbrough said in a telephone interview. The difference between a fully charged and discharged 12-volt battery is not that big. Related: How to Store Your Car for Winter. When I'm talking about a fully discharged battery, I'm not talking about zero volts. Interstate says a car battery loses 33 percent of its power when the temperature drops below freezing and more than 50 percent when it goes below zero, so just when you need more power, you have less to start your car. That's why preventive maintenance is a good idea, Kimbrough said
13.2.6. Float or periodic recharging will prevent batteries from freezing. An Electrolyte Freeze Points at Various States-of-Charge for a Wet Lead-Acid Battery table indicates the temperature when the electrolyte will freeze. 13.2.7. Store in a cold dry place, but not so that it will freeze, and where it can be easily recharged. The freezing point of a battery is determined by the SoC and the higher it is, the lower the freezing temperature. Please see the Electrolyte Freeze Points Table in Section 4.4.1.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. A car battery freezes at different temperatures depending on its state of charge. When fully charged the electrolyte is mostly Sulfuric acid and it will not freeze easily, something as low as minus 60. When discharged the acid turns to mostly water and the freezing will start at much warmer temperatures, minus 10 can give a problem with a flat battery. 32 deg fah +++ (That's the freezing-point of pure water.) Adding antifreeze lowers the freezing-point, to a temperature depending on the make and dilution-the values for a s … pecific anti-freeze will be on its container label.
At a 40% state of charge, electrolyte will freeze if the temperature drops to approximately -16 degrees F. When a battery is fully charged the electrolyte will not freeze until the temperature drops to approximately -92 degrees F. 
1 According to Kimbrough, a fully charged battery will not freeze until -76°F; however, a fully discharged battery could start to freeze at 32°F. 2  Small Maintenance Chores are Necessary. 3  Preparing your car for the winter doesn’t end with the battery itself. 4  You need to inspect your battery cables, posts, and fasteners. 1 Protect Your Battery from Mr. Freeze. 2  The cold weather can dramatically reduce a person’s energy level and it can do the same to a battery’s available starting power. 3  It’s a good idea to have your car’s starting and charging system tested every six months.
This is important because a discharged battery will freeze -- a charged battery will not freeze. A battery that has been frozen is very likely a dead battery. Note that a car battery rarely freezes because a car battery is rarely fully discharged. A car battery will freeze if it is allowed to get cold enough when discharged. Let's examine why my customers need to worry about discharged batteries over the winter. Lead-acid batteries contain a solution of sulfuric acid (H 2 SO 4) and water -- the solution is referred to as the battery's electrolyt
As they get older the charge rate decreases but you should not have a freezing problem with a battery that is charged. More of a problem in cold weather is the batteries inefficiency, at minus 30 70% of the capacity is lost due to the cold. Keep the battery warm if you live in a really cold area. 32 deg fah +++ (That's the freezing-point of pure water.) Adding antifreeze lowers the freezing-point, to a temperature depending on the make and dilution-the values for a s … pecific anti-freeze will be on its container label.