Goose egg. Time to boil: Soft boil - 9-10 mins, hard boil - 13 mins. Taste: Rich and creamy, these are roughly the equivalent of two hen’s eggs. Uses: Perfect size for an omelette but also tasty scrambled. Duck egg. Time to boil: Soft boil - 3½-4 mins, hard boil - 9-10 mins. Taste: The larger yolk gives these eggs a creamier taste than hen’s eggs. Uses: Delicious fried or boiled for a special breakfast, or use to make richer custards.
There has been controversy in the media over how long you need to boil a goose egg -- and perhaps how many mouths one egg will feed -- but there is no doubting their virtues in terms of taste and nutrition. Mrs Perowne recommends boiling them for 9 to 11 minutes. 
Bring the water to a rolling boil then immediately reduce the stove to medium heat for a low boil. This is similar to a simmer but the water is still boiling slightly---it just won't boil over like a rolling boil will. Step 5. Cook the eggs for 10 to 12 minutes for a hard-boiled egg. For soft-boiled eggs, cook for 8 to 9 minutes. Step 6. Remove the eggs and place them in ice water as soon as the time is up. Leave them in ice water for at least 3 to 4 minutes
Cooking times for goose eggs: Soft-boiled Eggs. To soft-boil the eggs, simply place it in boiling water for 7 – 8 minutes. The yolks will be runny in the center and soft around the edges. My eggs in the salad, was boiled for exactly 8 ½ minutes so my whites were a little firmer! Hard-boiled eggs. To hard-boil the eggs, the eggs must be placed in boiling water and boiled for 14-15 minutes.
If the egg is fewer than five days old or does not have an embryo in it, it will be fine to cook. To soft-boil a goose egg, place it in boiling water for 7 to 8 minutes. The yolk will be liquid in the center and soft around the edges, while the white will be soft and spongy. To hard-boil a goose egg, place the egg in boiling water for 15 minutes. The yolk of a goose egg will not become as firm as a chicken egg when hard-boiled, but will remain a little bit soft and wet. The white will be very firm. Sal*UK · 5 years ago. 
Time to boil: Medium Soft boil: 2½-3 mins, hard boil: 6-7 mins. Large Soft boil: 3½-4 mins, hard boil: 9-10 mins. Taste: Varies according to bird variety, diet, method of rearing and how the eggs are stored. Shell colour is no indication of flavour or quality. Duck egg. Time to boil: Soft boil - 3½-4 mins, hard boil - 9-10 mins. Taste: The larger yolk gives these eggs a creamier taste than hen’s eggs. Uses: Delicious fried or boiled for a special breakfast, or use to make richer custards.
About 25-30 minutes total. Starting with a pot of cold water, poke a pinhole in the large end (air pocket) of each egg. (this allows for expansion of the egg without cracking … the shell). Place the eggs in the pot, cover it and bring it to a boil. Boil the eggs 3 minutes for soft boiled eggs or 10 minutes for hard boiled. 1. Put in water in a large pot and boil on very high heat. 2. When it starts to boil violently, add goose egg. 3. Cover pot for around 6-8 minutes. (sometimes up to 12 minutes). 4. Enjoy.
About 25-30 minutes total. Starting with a pot of cold water, poke a pinhole in the large end (air pocket) of each egg. (this allows for expansion of the egg without cracking … the shell). Place the eggs in the pot, cover it and bring it to a boil. Boil the eggs 3 minutes for soft boiled eggs or 10 minutes for hard boiled. Drain the eggs and immediately cover them with cold running water until they are completely cooled, about 5-10 minutes, if they are to be served cold. 1. Put in water in a large pot and boil on very high heat. 2. When it starts to boil violently, add goose egg. 3. Cover pot for around 6-8 minutes. (sometimes up to 12 min … utes) 4. Enjoy.