Sheriff Langston: [ rising in his saddle, until his hat is shot off ] Today, my jurisdiction ends here. Silverado is a 1985 Western film that's something of a Reconstruction of the genre. Released in the theaters July of that year, it was directed by Lawrence Kasdan and starred many well-known (or soon to be well-known) actors, including Kevin Kline, Danny Glover, Scott Glenn, Kevin Costner, Jeff Goldblum, Brian Dennehy and John Cleese.
Silverado was filmed on the Cook Ranch in New Mexico. Silverado was filmed on the Cook Ranch in New Mexico. The baseball field was constructed for the … movie in Southport, SC and built to look like Veterans Field in Chatham, Massachusetts, even though the field in the movie does not resemble the actual Veterans Field in Chatham, Massachusetts, the home field for the Chatham A's (now called the Anglers).
The original Cook Movie Ranch Set was one of the main locations for Silverado. Right: The Cerro Pelon Ranch as it is today (2011), near Galisteo, New Mexico. Formerly the Cook Movie Ranch Set, it is one of the most famous Western Town sets in the world. About Cerro Pelon Ranch: What is now Cerro Pelon Ranch is located near the village of Galisteo. Cook Movie Ranch was owned by Bill and Marian Cook, who got their start in providing locations for the film industry in 1984. It just grew from that into a big budget movie and the Silverado set was built, Cook recalled. The set was appropriately dressed and filmed for towns in four different states, depending on the view from the streets: mountains or prairie or the Galisteo River.
Other locations used on the film are: Abiquiu, Galisteo, Ghost Ranch, Los Alamos, Nambe, White Rock, White Rock Overlook, Tent Rocks, Cochiti Pueblo, and Santa Ana Pueblo, all in New Mexico. Eaves Movie Ranch, near Santa Fe, New Mexico, was also utilized. It just grew from that into a big budget movie and the Silverado set was built, Cook recalled. The set was appropriately dressed and filmed for towns in four different states, depending on the view from the streets: mountains or prairie or the Galisteo River.
Silverado is a 1985 American Western film produced and directed by Lawrence Kasdan. The screenplay was written by Kasdan and his brother Mark. On November 12, 2005, an expanded two-disc version of the score was released by the Intrada Records label. Silverado premiered in the United States on July 12, 1985. It grossed $32,192,570 at the box office, recouping its $23 million production budget.
The film was produced by Columbia Pictures and Delphi III Productions, and distributed to theatres by Columbia, and by Sony Pictures Home Entertainment for home media. The original soundtrack, with a score composed by Bruce Broughton, was released by Geffen Records. On November 12, 2005, an expanded two-disc version of the score was released by the Intrada Records label. Silverado premiered in the United States on July 12, 1985. It grossed $32,192,570 at the box office, recouping its $23 million production budget.
The movie Walking Tall is set in Kitsap County, Washington, but was filmed in Squamish, B.C., Canada. The baseball field was constructed for the … movie in Southport, SC and built to look like Veterans Field in Chatham, Massachusetts, even though the field in the movie does not resemble the actual Veterans Field in Chatham, Massachusetts, the home field for the Chatham A's (now called the Anglers).
Synopsis. Lawrence Kasdan 's Silverado is a fond hark back to the all-star, big-budget westerns of the 1950s and 1960s. The various plotlines converge at the town of Silverado, held in thrall by crooked sheriff Brian Dennehy and his behemoth deputies.. 
The movie Lemonade Mouth was filmed in Albuquerque, New Mexico... The baseball field was constructed for the … movie in Southport, SC and built to look like Veterans Field in Chatham, Massachusetts, even though the field in the movie does not resemble the actual Veterans Field in Chatham, Massachusetts, the home field for the Chatham A's (now called the Anglers).
The film was shot primarily on location in New Mexico. In 1984, Lawrence and Mark Kasdan and crew were out scouting a remote area of New Mexico by helicopter, hoping to find the most suitable place to build the town of Silverado. On November 12, 2005, an expanded two-disc version of the score was released by the Intrada Records label. Silverado premiered in the United States on July 12, 1985. It grossed $32,192,570 at the box office, recouping its $23 million production budget.