List of Types of Shepherd Dogs. Types of shepherd dogs, which are variations of, similar to and/or often confused with the German Shepherd Dog. This is Shady (left) and Nikki (right). They are both German Shepherd
[ˈʃɛːfɐˌhʊnt]) is a breed of large-sized working dog that originated in Germany. The breed's officially recognized name is German Shepherd Dog in the English language, sometimes abbreviated as  GSD , and was also formerly known as the Alsatian and Alsatian Wolf Dog in Britain. The German Shepherd is a relatively new breed of dog, with their origin dating to 1899. German Shepherds are large sized dogs. Close-up of a German Shepherd's face showing the long muzzle, black nose and brown, medium-sized eyes. The adult German Shepherd's ears are large and stand erect, but 14-week-old puppies' ears are often not completely erect yet.
German Shepherd Dogs. German Shepherds are fierce but friendly, and have a calm confidence that may seem kind of aloof. When in need, however, a German Shepherd is instantly ready to protect, play a game or perform a task—in some cases as a guard dog, police dog, herder or seeing eye dog. With a strong work ethic and an eager intelligence, they crave challenges.
The German Shepherd is a relatively new breed, dating back to 1899, and he owes his existence to one man: Captain Max von Stephanitz, a career captain in the German cavalry with a goal of creating a German breed that would be unmatched as a herding dog. 
Types of German Shepherd Dogs. As a versatile utility dog, the German Shepherd Dog breed has several different types that have their own origin, history and unique traits. These different types, although all of them are still German Shepherd dogs, can be better suited for different purposes and roles. Each type is valued and respected for what it brings to the breed. All of these types of German Shepherd dogs within the breed are unique for a variety of reasons. Physical appearance, drives, temperament and purpose varies among the lines, but all of them are German Shepherds equally
German Shepherds have black masks and black body markings. German Shepherds are large-sized dogs. The breed standard height at the withers is 60–65 cm (24–26 in) for males and 55–60 cm (22–24 in) for females. The weight standard is 30–40 kilograms (66–88 lb) for males and 22–32 kilograms (49–71 lb) for females. German Shepherds are large sized dogs. Close-up of a German Shepherd's face showing the long muzzle, black nose and brown, medium-sized eyes. The adult German Shepherd's ears are large and stand erect, but 14-week-old puppies' ears are often not completely erect yet.
General Appearance. The first impression of a good German Shepherd Dog is that of a strong, agile, well muscled animal, alert and full of life. It is well balanced, with harmonious development of the forequarter and hindquarter. The dog is longer than tall, deep-bodied, and presents an outline of smooth curves rather than angles. 
Most people who love German Shepherds love all German Shepherds. That’s why breed clubs have rescue organizations devoted to taking care of homeless dogs. The German Shepherd Dog Club of America’s Rescue Network can help you find a dog that may be the perfect companion for your family. 
There are essentially 3 different general “types” of German Shepherds than can be found in North America. The American show lines, the German show lines, and the European working lines. Each type has its own unique look and personality. 