Schizophrenia. Schizophrenia is a severe mental disorder, characterized by profound disruptions in thinking, affecting language, perception, and the sense of self. It often includes psychotic experiences, such as hearing voices or delusions. Health topics. Schizophrenia is a severe mental disorder, characterized by profound disruptions in thinking, affecting language, perception, and the sense of self. It often includes psychotic experiences, such as hearing voices or delusions.
Schizophrenia is a mental disorder often characterized by abnormal social behavior and failure to recognize what is real. 
Schizophrenia. A mental disorder often characterized by abnormal social behavior and failure to recognize what is real. Common symptoms include false beliefs, unclear or confused thinking, and reduced social engagement and emotional expression. PubMed Health Glossary. (Source: Wikipedia). About Schizophrenia. Schizophrenia is a chronic, severe, and disabling brain disorder that has affected people throughout history. People with the disorder may hear voices other people don't hear. They may believe other people are reading their minds, controlling their thoughts, or plotting to harm them.
It is often considered to be more of a personality disorder; see schizotypal personality disorder. schizoaffective schizophrenia schizoaffective disorder. simple schizophrenia a form characterized by gradual loss of drive, social withdrawal, and emotional apathy, but without prominent psychotic features. It is often considered to be a form of personality disorder; see schizotypal personality disorder. Definition. Schizophrenia is a psychotic disorder (or a group of disorders) marked by severely impaired thinking, emotions, and behaviors. Schizophrenic patients are typically unable to filter sensory stimuli and may have enhanced perceptions of sounds, colors, and other features of their environment.
Schizophrenia is a severe brain disorder in which people interpret reality abnormally. Schizophrenia may result in some combination of hallucinations, delusions, and extremely disordered thinking and behavior. Contrary to popular belief, schizophrenia isn't a split personality or multiple personality. 
Share. Schizophrenia is a chronic, severe, and disabling mental disorder characterized by deficits in thought processes, perceptions, and emotional responsiveness. 
Schizophrenia is a severe mental disorder, characterized by profound disruptions in thinking, affecting language, perception, and the sense of self. It often includes psychotic experiences, such as hearing voices or delusions. 1 Schizophrenia affects more than 21 million people worldwide. 2  It is a treatable disorder. 3  One in two people living with schizophrenia does not receive care for the condition. 4  Care of persons with schizophrenia can be provided at community level, with active family and community involvement.
Pages: 1 2 All. Schizophrenia is a mental disorder that is characterized by at least 2 of the following symptoms, for at least one month: 1  Delusions. 2  Hallucinations. 3  Disorganized speech (e.g., frequent derailment or incoherence). 4  Grossly disorganized or catatonic behavior. Only one of the above symptoms is required to make the diagnosis of schizophrenia if the person’s delusions are bizarre or if the hallucinations consist of a voice keeping up a running commentary on the person’s behavior or thoughts, or two or more voices conversing with each other.