Fiber dyeing is typically used to dye wool and other fibers that are used to produce yarns with two or more colors. Tweeds and fabrics with a heather look are examples of fiber dyed fabrics. Fiber Dyeing. Stock dyeing, top dyeing, and tow dyeing are used to dye fibers at various stages of the manufacturing process prior to the fibers being spun into yarns. The names refer to the stage at which the fiber is when it is dyed. All three are included under the broad category of fiber dyeing
1 Solution dyeing is also being used for environmental reasons, as dyeing at this stage eliminates the need for water, energy and disposal of waste water due to wet process dyeing. 2  Dyeing at the solution stage is often more expensive due to the initial set-up cost. Solution Dyeing. Solution dyeing, also known as dope or spun dyeing, is the process of adding pigments or insoluble dyes to a solution before it is extruded through the spinneret. 1  Only manufactured fibers can be solution dyed
1 As the color pigments become a part of the fiber, solution dyed materials have excellent colorfastness to light, washing, crocking (rubbing), perspiration, and bleach. Solution Dyeing. Solution dyeing, also known as dope or spun dyeing, is the process of adding pigments or insoluble dyes to a solution before it is extruded through the spinneret. 1  Only manufactured fibers can be solution dyed
Methods of Dyeing. Dyeing can be performed using continuous or batch processes. In batch dyeing, a certain amount of textile substrate, usually 100 to 1,000 kilograms, is loaded into a dyeing machine and brought to equilibrium, or near equilibrium, with a solution containing the dye. 
1 Gel dyeing is used for acrylic fibers colored with cationic dyes. 2  The initial set-up for gel dyeing is much simpler than that of solution dyeing, as the fiber is extruded and then colored. 3  Other advantages and disadvantages are similar to those of solution dyeing. Solution Dyeing. Solution dyeing, also known as dope or spun dyeing, is the process of adding pigments or insoluble dyes to a solution before it is extruded through the spinneret. 1  Only manufactured fibers can be solution dyed
Dyeing is the process of adding color to textile products like fibers, yarns, and fabrics. Dyeing is normally done in a special solution containing dyes and particular chemical material. After dyeing, dye molecules have uncut chemical bond with fiber molecules. The temperature and time controlling are two key factors in dyeing. There are mainly two classes of dye, natural and man-made.
History. Skein dyeing is one of the oldest methods of coloring yarn. A skein, which is a length of yarn wound in a loose coil, is dyed by being immersed in a receptacle containing pigment. Skein dye pots were found in the remains of Pompeii and were used by the Inca Indians of South America. Typically a fire was built under the pot, and sticks were used to turn the skeins. 
Check the labels of any fabrics and carpets you are considering for your home. Now that you know what solution-dyed fibers are and what they can do for you, use that knowledge to pick the appropriate fabrics and flooring for each space in your home. 1  Blog this! 2  Recommend on Facebook. 3  Buzz it up. 4  Share on Linkedin. 5  Share with Stumblers. 6  Share on technorati. 7  Tweet about it. 