A plant’s body has different structures designed for different tasks, such as making food and conserving water. LEAVES, usually broad and flat, take in energy from sunlight and carbon dioxide from the air. ROOTS snake through the soil to take in water and minerals. The STEM supports the part of the plant above ground. The stem is the main support of the upright plant, and connects the roots and leaves. It contains bundles of microscopic tubes – xylem vessels, carrying water and minerals, and phloem vessels, carrying food. The stem also has cells with special thickened walls that help to provide strength.
General Anatomical Organization of Plants. Like animals, plant bodies are made up of a variety of cell types that are organized into tissues. Tissues are organized into organs, and organs function together within systems. Within this hierarchy of structure, emergent properties arise at each level. Plants are autotrophic, meaning that they produce their own food (via photosynthesis), and as a result ultimately produce food for the ecosystem's consumers (such as humans). Understanding plant function is the key to enhancing crop production, preserving plant biodiversity, producing medicines, and much more.
Cells are the building blocks that all living things are made of. For example, your body is made of trillions of cells. A pet dog or cat is made of cells. A tree and even a blade of grass are made of cells. There are different kinds of cells. Cells that make up plants are able to make food for a plant. They can store water. Cells that make up animals allow for taking in food, since animals do not make their own food.
Plants are made up of two organ systems: the shoot system and the root system. For terrestrial plants the shoot system is above ground and consists of a number of organs. These include stems, leaves, and flowers. Plants are autotrophic, meaning that they produce their own food (via photosynthesis), and as a result ultimately produce food for the ecosystem's consumers (such as humans). Understanding plant function is the key to enhancing crop production, preserving plant biodiversity, producing medicines, and much more.
Plants also help make soil. Soil is made up of lots of particles of rocks which are broken down into very small pieces. When plants die, their decomposed remains are added to the soil. This helps to make the soil rich with nutrients. M any plants are important sources of products that people use, including food, fibers (for cloth), and medicines. 
Plant cells form, of course, all types of plants and roots, but also form vegetables and fruits and grains. Any organisms that are plants are made up of plant cells. They all … belong to the kingdom Plantae. Organisms such as animals, bacteria, etc. are not made up of plant cells. The reason why this is is because plant cells have organelles called chloroplasts which help the plant to photosynthesize. Photosynthesis allows plants to make their own food, which is what sets them apart from other organisms. Some examples of these are flowers, grass, trees, corn, wheat, vines, weeds, and shrubs. 
1 Sclerenchyma tissues are thick-walled support cells found throughout the plant as fiber. 2  Xylem is a structurally complex tissue that conducts water and nutrients from the roots to all parts of the plant. 3  The xylem is comprised of a series of long tubes made up of shorter vessel members. 
Confidence votes 25. A plant cell is made-up of many components. firstly to start with it has a nucleus which consists of chromosomes, nucleolus and nucleoplasm. it consists of many other components like rRNA, mRNA and tRNA and proteins.. Plant cells form, of course, all types of plants and roots, but also form vegetables and fruits and grains. Any organisms that are plants are made up of plant cells. They all … belong to the kingdom Plantae. Organisms such as animals, bacteria, etc. are not made up of plant cells. The reason why this is is because plant cells have organelles called chloroplasts which help the plant to photosynthesize. Photosynthesis allows plants to make their own food, which is what sets them apart from other organisms
A plant is made up of microscopic living structures called cells. Like animal cells, plant cells have a nucleus and an oily membrane surrounding the whole cell. A plant cell is also encased in a tough cell wall and usually contains a large, fluid-filled bubble called a vacuole. The stem is the main support of the upright plant, and connects the roots and leaves. It contains bundles of microscopic tubes – xylem vessels, carrying water and minerals, and phloem vessels, carrying food. The stem also has cells with special thickened walls that help to provide strength.