The tricuspid valve is located between the right atrium and right ventricle, and it's there because it prevents blood from flowing backward from the right ventricle to the right atrium. 2 people found this useful. Invigilator - 007. 
There are four heart valves: 1  Tricuspid valve: located between the right atrium and the right ventricle. 2  Pulmonary valve: located between the right ventricle and the pulmonary artery. 3  Mitral valve: located between the left atrium and the left ventricle. As the left ventricle contracts, the aortic valve closes and the mitral valve opens, to allow blood to flow from the left atrium into the left ventricle. Initially, unoxygenated blood from the body collects in the right atrium. It then flows to the right ventricle through the tricuspid valve.
The tricuspid valve, or right atrioventricular valve, is on the right dorsal side of the mammalian heart, between the right atrium and the right ventricle. For the type of tooth, see dental anatomy. The tricuspid valve, or right atrioventricular valve, is on the right dorsal side of the mammalian heart, between the right atrium and the right ventricle. The function of the valve is to prevent back flow of blood into the right atrium.
The tricuspid valve is located between the right atrium and right ventricle, and it's there because it prevents blood from flowing backward from the right ventricle to the right atrium. The tricuspid valve is located between the right atrium and the right ventricle. It normally has three flaps but may have two or even four flaps, and this can change with age.
For more information on valve disease and its treatment, see Valve Disease. The tricuspid valve is located between the right atrium (top chamber) and right ventricle (bottom chamber). Its role is to make sure blood flows in a forward direction from the right atrium to the ventricle. Tricuspid valve disease refers to abnormal function of the tricuspid valve. 
It is located on the right side of the heart you have the right atrim, then the tricuspid valve then the right ventricle. The tricuspid valve is located between the right atrium and the right ventricle. It normally has three flaps but may have two or even four flaps, and this can change with age.