The Pearl Harbor advance-knowledge conspiracy theory is the argument that American government officials had advance knowledge of Japan 's December 7, 1941 attack on Pearl Harbor. 
The Infamy Speech was a speech delivered by United States President Franklin D. Roosevelt to a Joint Session of Congress on December 8, 1941, one day after the Empire of Japan 's attack on Pearl Harbor, Hawaii. 
On Sunday, December 7, 1941, Japan launched a sneak attack on the U.S. Pacific Fleet at Pearl Harbor, shattering the peace of a beautiful Hawaiian morning and leaving much of the fleet broken and burning. 
By provoking the Japanese and the foreknowledge of an attack on Pearl Harbor, Roosevelt along with his top advisors and the Federal Government are truly to blame for the lost of American life s and American property. 7 December 1941 shall be a day in American history, which will be remembered as a day of deceit. *72 years after The Day which will live in Infamy, Dec. 7, 1941, myths still surround the Japanese attack that plunged the US into WWII. http://www.nationalenquirer.com/celebrity/pearl-harbor-myths-debunked. The Bombing of Pearl Harbor On 7 December 1941 the greatest disaster in United States history occurred.
Pearl Harbor day: How FDR reacted on December 7, 1941. December 7, 1941, now known as Pearl Harbor day, arrived as the country remained hopeful for peace. President Franklin Roosevelt reacted to the intense day with 'deadly calm,' his wife Eleanor would later recall. 
The USS Oglala lies capsized after the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor. (National Archives at San Francisco; ARC 296007). December 7, 1941, began as a typical Sunday for millions of Americans, but suddenly everything changed, irrevocably, in ways they would remember for the rest of their lives. As the news flashed from coast to coast, the bombing of Pearl Harbor mushroomed into a national disaster. Out of the disaster on Oahu a revisionist myth emerged that has been masquerading as history ever since. In its most extreme form it invites us to stand on our heads and look at everything upside down. It asks us to believe that on December 7, 1941, Franklin D. Roosevelt attacked Japan at
Roosevelt was right. After the attack on Pearl Harbor, the American people were willing, if not eager, to go to war. Once the US had declared war on Japan, under the provisions of the Tripartite Pact signed by Germany, Italy, and Japan on September 1940, Hitler declared war on the US.
Publisher. A+E Networks. On this day in 1941, at around 1:30 p.m., President Franklin Roosevelt is conferring with advisor Harry Hopkins in his study when Navy Secretary Frank Knox bursts in and announces that Japan had attacked Pearl Harbor. The attack killed more than 2,400 naval and military personnel. On this day, in an early-morning sneak attack, Japanese warplanes bomb the U.S. naval base at Oahu Island’s Pearl Harbor—and the United States enters World War II. President Roosevelt and Secretary of State Cordell Hull knew a Japanese attack was imminent.