At the end of the First World War, the Kaiser was kicked out of Germany, and in 1919 the Weimar Republic was set up. Before 1914, the government of Germany had been a military autocracy; after 1919, it was a parliamentary democracy. In January 1919, elections were held for a new Reichstag and in February 1919, in the town of Weimar, a new government was agreed. Freidrich Ebert was elected President of the new Republic. Germany did not just get a new government. The Allies made sure that Germany got a different kind of
The Weimar Republic was established in 1919. It was the German Government between WW1 and WW2. it faced many problems from extremists, power in the Reichstag and the economy. … Reparations led to hyperinflation which was later resolved by the Dawes Plan. It started with the treaty of Versailles where the Weimar Republic was blamed for everything that happened as a result. This blame caused a lack of trust and the German people began to dislike their government.
People use the term “Weimar Republic” to refer to a period in German history between 1919 and 1933 when the government was a democratic republic governed by a constitution that was laid out in the German city of Weimar. However, even from the start, the Weimar Republic was deeply troubled. When the constitution was first established, many Germans were highly suspicious of the new government, and extremists on the left and right rejected the authority of the republic, undermining its effectiveness.
The hyperinflation in the Weimar Republic was a three-year period of hyperinflation in the Weimar Republic (modern-day Germany) between June 1921 and January 1924. 1  1 History. The hyperinflation in the Weimar Republic was a three-year period of hyperinflation in the Weimar Republic (modern-day Germany) between June 1921 and January 1924. Contents.
Introduction. The Weimar Republic, named after the German city of Weimar, is the democratic republic which governed Germany between 1919 and 1933. This chapter explains the economic, social and political factors which led to the downfall of the Weimar Republic
The Weimar Republic was founded at the end of World War I, with Germany in a state of near-anarchy. The Social Democratic Party was the leading party in the creation of the Weimar Republic. It was the only party with sufficient credibility and acceptance by Wilson to negotiate an armistice agreement. 
A new Republic was declared. In January 1919, elections were held for a new Reichstag and in February 1919, in the town of Weimar, a new government was agreed. Freidrich Ebert was elected President of the new Republic. Germany did not just get a new government. The Allies made sure that Germany got a different kind of government.
1 During the Weimar Republic, it was accepted that a law did not have to conform to the constitution as long as it had the support of two-thirds of parliament, the same majority needed to change the constitution (verfassungsdurchbrechende Gesetze). 2  This was a precedent for the Enabling Act of 1933. While the Western borders of the Weimar Republic were accepted by Germany under the influence of Gustav Stresemann as German foreign minister in the Locarno Treaties, the Eastern border remained debatable for the Weimar German governments.
In 1923, the Weimar Republic was on the verge of collapse, but, surprisingly, the crisis was the start of a period of stability and success. The period 1923-1929 was a time when the economy boomed and cultural life flourished in Germany. 
The Weimar Republic was founded when the combined strain of war and resentment of the government resulted in the German November Revolution (1918-1919), which called for the abdication of Kaiser (Emperor) Wilhelm II. The Weimar Republic, named after the German city of Weimar, is the democratic republic which governed Germany between 1919 and 1933.