Cole is a variant of the name Colby (English). Cole is also a variant (English) of the name Colin (English, Scottish, and French). Cole is also a short form (English) of the name Colman (English and Irish). Cole is also a variant of the name Colter (English). Cole is also a variant of the name Colton (English). Cole is also a short form (English) of the name Nicholas (English and French). Cole has 19 variants. Variants include Coal, Coale, Col, Colea, Colee, Coleigh, Colet, Coli, Colie, Colsan, Colsen, Colsin, Colson, Colsun, Colsyn, Coly, Kohl, and Kole. The diminutive form Coley is another English variant
Meaning of Cole. Irish name. In Irish, the name Cole means-warrior. Other origins for the name Cole include-Irish, English.The name Cole is most often used as a boy name or male name. Irish Name Meaning-warrior.
Cole -- a short name that embodies a lot of richness and depth -- has long been associated with the great songwriter Cole Porter. Currently, Cole, which has been on a roll since the mid-90s, is holding on to its steady popularity, now at Number 116. It's also a Top 60 name in Scotland. 
Greek Meaning: The name Cole is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Cole is: People's victory. American Meaning: The name Cole is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Cole is: People's victory. English Meaning: The name Cole is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Cole is: Of a triumphant people; young boy
Cole /cole/ [1 syll.] as a boys' name (also used less commonly as girls' name Cole) is pronounced kohl. It is of Middle English and Old French origin, and the meaning of Cole is swarthy, coal-black, charcoal. Surname derived from a medieval given name. Also used as a short form of Nicholas and names beginning with Cole-. As a given name, it is linked with the songwriter-composer Cole Porter (20th century). Outlaw Cole Younger
Etymology & Historical Origin-Cole. The name Cole comes from an English, Irish and occasionally Scottish surname which itself originated as a personal name. There are two schools of thought on how the name was given in the first place. The primary belief is that the name Cole comes from a Middle English nickname “Cola” (meaning swarthy, coal-black). 
Cole /koʊl/ is a surname of English origin, and is much less frequently a given name. It is of Middle English origin, and its meaning is swarthy, coal-black, charcoal. The Cole family originated in Cornwall, South West England. The first recorded spelling of the family name is shown to be that of Randolphi Cole, appearing in the Winton Rolls of Hampshire in 1148. It is also an Americanized spelling of the German name 'Kohl', and of the Scottish and Irish name 'McCool'
Origin of the name Cole: Transferred use of the surname derived from the Old English col (coal). It originated as a nickname for someone who was coal-black, swarthy, or darkly-complexioned. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. 