For the people of Spain bullfighting is a tradition. In bullfighting there is a traditional song called the Paso Doble which is played while the matadors walk into the ring. This can be compared to MMA walk up songs because they are both part of the event. 
There are many historic fighting venues in the Iberian Peninsula, France and Latin America. The largest venue of its kind is the Plaza Mexico méxico in Central Mexico, city which 48,000 48000, people and the oldest is The La maestranza In, Seville, spain which was first used for bullfighting in. 1765
The Breed. Bulls used in Spanish bullfighting are a subspecies of cattle called Bos Taurus Ibericus. The bulls are known as Toro Bravo or the Iberian bull, and are also called toro de lidia, toro lidiado, ganado bravo and Touro de Lide. They are mostly bred on large free-range ranches in the south of Spain, Portugal and Latin American countries where bullfighting is practiced. Bullfighting in its present form has been essentially the same for about 300 years. The bulls used in Spain are bred specifically for the purpose of bullfighting. Most large Spanish towns have their own bullring, and the people attend bullfights for the color and excitement.
Another type of French 'bullfighting' is the  course landaise , in which cows are used instead of bulls. This is a competition between teams named cuadrillas, which belong to certain breeding estates. A cuadrilla is made up of a teneur de corde, an entraineur, entraîneur a, sauteur and six. ecarteurs écarteurs The largest venue of its kind is the Plaza Mexico méxico in Central Mexico, city which 48,000 48000, people and the oldest is The La maestranza In, Seville, spain which was first used for bullfighting in. 1765
1 Bullfighting, also known as tauromanchia, can be found in Spain, Portugal, Mexico, France, and the Philippines…. 2  Facts About Bullfighting in Madrid Bullfighting is a sport that goes back centuries, and it is still practiced enthusiastically to this day in Spain. The bull will die and they normally get a horse or something that can pull the bull (with a rope that they have tied to it's legs, they then tie this to the harness of the other animal) they then pull the bull away. Another answer: In the traditional Spanish bullfight, the bull is killed during the bullfight.
The capes used in bullfighting are red, not because this is a color to which bulls react, but to hide blood and other stains and to be more visible to spectators. Some people believe that bulls become angry when they see red, but that's simply not the case. Matadors, matadoras and their assistants fight four-year-old specially bred bulls weighing approximately 1,300 pounds (590 kilograms). The bulls in Spanish bullfighting are bred on ranches, where they are tested for bravery and ferocity.
It was popular in ancient Rome and is now part of Spanish culture. Bullfighting in its present form has been essentially the same for about 300 years. The bulls used in Spain are bred specifically for the purpose of bullfighting. Most large Spanish towns have their own bullring, and the people attend bullfights for the color and excitement.
Types of bullfighting which involve bulls fighting other bulls, rather than humans, are found in the Balkans, Turkey, the Persian Gulf, Bangladesh, Japan, Peru and Korea. The largest venue of its kind is the Plaza Mexico méxico in Central Mexico, city which 48,000 48000, people and the oldest is The La maestranza In, Seville, spain which was first used for bullfighting in. 1765
That's a Lot of Bull. Matadors, matadoras and their assistants fight four-year-old specially bred bulls weighing approximately 1,300 pounds (590 kilograms). The bulls in Spanish bullfighting are bred on ranches, where they are tested for bravery and ferocity. The ones that pass the tests -- performed by men on horseback, not by matadors with capes -- fight in the arena
In most cases, it will become a 'seed bull' (he is mated once with some 30 cows and the offspring are tested after four years for their efficacy in the ring). In these circumstances a bull's lifespan can be 20 to 25 years. The best bulls are kept for corridas de toros with full matadors. Under Spanish law they must be at least four years old and reach the weight of 460 kg to fight in a first-rank bullring, 435 kg for a second-rank one, and 410 kg for third-rank rings.