EMV -- which stands for Europay, MasterCard and Visa -- is a global standard for cards equipped with computer chips and the technology used to authenticate chip-card transactions. As with a magnetic-stripe credit card, you sign on the point-of-sale terminal to take responsibility for the payment when making a chip-and-signature card transaction. Once the transition to EMV is under way in the U.S., chip-and-PIN cards will be transitioned in. Again, it is one step at a time, according to Ferenczi.
Payment cards that comply with the EMV standard are often called chip-and-PIN or chip-and-signature cards, depending on the exact authentication methods required to use them. EMV stands for Europay, MasterCard, and Visa, the three companies that originally created the standard. EMV cards are smart cards (also called chip cards or IC cards) which store their data on integrated circuits rather than magnetic stripes, although many EMV cards also have stripes for backward compatibility.
Visa and MasterCard have also developed standards for using EMV cards in devices to support card not present transactions over the telephone and Internet. MasterCard has the Chip Authentication Program (CAP) for secure e-commerce. Its implementation is known as EMV-CAP and supports a number of modes. EMV cards are smart cards (also called chip cards or IC cards) which store their data on integrated circuits rather than magnetic stripes, although many EMV cards also have stripes for backward compatibility.
1 EMV is an open-standard set of specifications for smart card payments and acceptance devices. 2  The EMV specifications were developed to define a set of requirements to ensure interoperability between chip-based payment cards and terminals. EMV cards store payment information in a secure chip rather than on a magnetic stripe and the personalization of EMV cards is done using issuer-specific keys. Unlike a magnetic stripe card, it is virtually impossible to create a counterfeit EMV card that can be used to conduct an EMV payment transaction successfully.
EMV Definition. EMV® is a global standard for credit and debit payment cards based on chip card technology taking its name from the card schemes Europay, MasterCard, and Visa-the original card schemes that developed it. Chip and PIN Definition. These transactions are often referred to as Chip and PIN because PIN entry is required to verify the customer is the genuine cardholder. This is a simplification since the EMV specifications include other cardholder verification methods as well.
EMV is a technical standard for smart payment cards and for payment terminals and automated teller machines that can accept them. EMV cards are smart cards (also called chip cards or IC cards) which store their data on integrated circuits rather than magnetic stripes, although many EMV cards also have stripes for backward compatibility.
EMV commonly refers to the fraud-reducing technology that is built into payment cards with a smart chip. Visa, MasterCard, American Express, and Discover have announced plans to establish EMV as the standard card technology in the U.S. by October 1, 2015. 
EMV, which stands for Europay, MasterCard and Visa, is a global credit card standard that enhances the security of in-person card transactions. EMV technology allows sensitive cardholder data to be stored in a chip, rather than in the traditional magnetic stripe found on most payment cards today. How EMV works. EMV technology is very simple on the customer's end. Instead of swiping the magnetic strip of a credit card, one end of the card is dipped into the EMV reader so it can scan the embedded EMV chip.
EMV chip technology is becoming the global standard for credit card and debit card payments. Named after its original developers (Europay, MasterCard® and Visa®), this technology features payment instruments (cards, mobile phones, etc.) with embedded microprocessor chips that store and protect cardholder data. Chip (EMV) technology is effective in combating counterfeit fraud with its dynamic authentication capabilities (dynamic values existing within the chip itself that, when verified by the point-of-sale device, ensure the authenticity of the card).
EMVCo published its latest EMV deployment figures in May 2015. In 2014, 32% of all chip card-present transactions-both contact and contactless-used EMV chip technology, this is up by 29% compared to 2013. There are now over 3.4 billion EMV payment cards in circulation, which is an increase of 43% on 2013. Chip and PIN Definition. These transactions are often referred to as Chip and PIN because PIN entry is required to verify the customer is the genuine cardholder. This is a simplification since the EMV specifications include other cardholder verification methods as well.