How to wear a Claddagh Ring.... * To wear a Claddagh ring on the right hand with the crown turned inwards indicates that the wearer is single. * To wear a Claddagh ring on the … right hand with the crown turned outward symbolizes that the wearer is being courted. * To wear a Claddagh ring on the left hand with the crown turned inwards indicates a romantic engagement. 
The Claddagh ring (Irish: fainne Fáinne) chladaigh is a Traditional irish ring given which represents, love, loyalty and (friendship the hands represent, friendship the heart represents, love and the crown represents). loyalty 1 On the right hand with the point of the heart toward the wrist, the wearer is in a relationship. 2  On the left hand with the point of the heart toward the fingertips, the wearer is engaged. 3  On the left hand with the point of the heart toward the wrist, the wearer is married.
The design and customs associated with it originated in the Irish fishing village of Claddagh, located just outside the old city walls of Galway, now part of Galway City. The ring, as currently known, was first produced in the 17th century. 1 On the right hand with the point of the heart toward the wrist, the wearer is in a relationship. 2  On the left hand with the point of the heart toward the fingertips, the wearer is engaged. 3  On the left hand with the point of the heart toward the wrist, the wearer is married.
1 To wear a Claddagh ring on the right hand with the crown turned inward, towards you symbolizes that the wearer is being courted in a relationship. 2  To wear a Claddagh ring on the left hand with the crown turned outwards, away from you indicates a romantic engagement. But nothing truly says Irish jewelry like the story of the Claddagh ring. The traditional Claddagh ring with its heart, hands and crown is an Irish symbol of eternal love, loyalty and friendship.
Another example of an Irish ring is the newest interpretation of the Claddagh ring, which stands for love, loyalty and friendship, entwined with Celtic knot work. A Celtic trinity heart ring is another good choice. Options. Another example of an Irish ring is the newest interpretation of the Claddagh ring, which stands for love, loyalty and friendship, entwined with Celtic knot work. A Celtic trinity heart ring is another good choice. It features a knot work-filled heart in the middle, flanked by trinity knots.
The way that a Claddagh ring is worn on the hand is usually intended to convey the wearer's relationship status: 1  On the right hand with the point of the heart toward the fingertips, the wearer is single and may be looking for love. How you wear the claddagh ring has different meanings. First produced in the 17th century, the claddagh design and the customs associated with it originated in the Irish fishing village of Claddagh, located just outside the city Galway.
How To Wear The Claddagh Ring. The Claddagh ring dates back to the 17th century.It is said that the first Claddagh ring was made by a goldmith name Richard Joyce,Who came from Galway in the west of Ireland. The design of the Claddagh shows two hands holding a crowned heart,The meaning is...Hand=Friendship. Crown=Loyalty. Heart=Love. 
The claddagh ring is a traditional irish ring given as a token of friendship, love, or marriage. How you wear the claddagh ring has different meanings. First produced in the 17th century, the claddagh design and the customs associated with it originated in the Irish fishing village of Claddagh, located just outside the city Galway.
The Claddagh ring is a traditional Irish jewelry item composed of a pair of hands, which symbolize friendship; a heart, which symbolizes love; and a crown, which symbolizes loyalty. It is often worn as a wedding ring or more casually as a piece of eye-catching jewelry. 1. Wear the ring on the ring finger of your right hand. Before you get married, the ring should be worn on your right hand, rather than your left. Wearing it on your ring finger shows that you're romantically inclined, but have not yet found the person you are going to marry.