Why It Is Done. An upper gastrointestinal (UGI) endoscopy may be done to: 1  Find problems in the upper gastrointestinal (GI) tract. 2  These problems can include: 3  Inflammation of the esophagus (esophagitis) or the stomach (gastritis). 4  Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) . 5  A narrowing (stricture) of the esophagus.
Talk with your doctor about any concerns you may have. During the procedure. An upper endoscopy usually takes 20 to 30 minutes to complete. Before the procedure begins, you will take off your shirt and put on a hospital gown. If you wear dentures, you may be asked to remove them. When the procedure is over, the endoscope will be gently removed from your body, and you will go to a recovery room. Your throat may feel sore, and you may have bloating or cramping because of the air blown into your stomach. You may also feel some discomfort from lying still for a long time.
Best Answer: I had an endoscopy last month and the actual proceduare was only about 10 min because it was normal. The only prep is 8 hr fasting before you have it done. Depending on how busy they are at the time will determine how long it takes for them to check you in. The procedure takes 15-20 minutes, but it also depends on if biopsies are done or not. Also depends on the hospital, but you can usually go home after about an hour. You can't have anything with seeds for about 2-3 weeks.
The patient will be in the Operating Room for 20-45 minutes for an upper endoscopy, and 30-120 minutes for a colonoscopy. Many patients have both an upper endoscopy and colonoscopy under the same anesthesia, which takes 40-120 minutes. http://www.cincinnatichildrens.org/health/info/abdomen/procedure/gi-endoscopy.htm. I had an endoscopy last month and the actual proceduare was only about 10 min because it was normal
During an upper endoscopy procedure, you'll be asked to lie down on a table on your back or on your side. As the procedure gets underway: 1  Monitors often will be attached to your body. 2  This will allow your health care team to monitor your breathing, blood pressure and heart rate. 3  You may receive a sedative medication. If you're concerned or quite uncomfortable, call your doctor. Take it easy for the rest of the day after your endoscopy. After receiving a sedative, you may feel alert, but your reaction times are affected and judgment is delayed. 1  How you prepare.
The entire procedure barely takes a few minutes. Once the endoscopy procedure is done, you will be kept in a recovery room for about 30 minutes for observation and occasionally are left with a mild sore throat or a feeling of distention from the insufflated air that was used during the procedure. Both these problems, however, are mild and fleeting. 
A: I had an endoscopy last month and the actual proceduare was only about 10 min because it was normal. The only prep is 8 hr fasting before you have it done. Depending on how busy they are at the time will determine how long it takes for them to check you in. Many patients have both an upper endoscopy and colonoscopy under the same anesthesia, which takes 40-120 minutes. http://www.cincinnatichildrens.org/health/info/abdomen/procedure/gi-endoscopy.htm.
In the first two to four hours of upper endoscopy recovery, you may feel slightly bloated from the air that was placed in your stomach during the examination, and your throat may feel numb and slightly sore. Starting Your Upper Endoscopy Recovery. After the upper endoscopy (also known as an EDG), you will either be closely monitored in the recovery room or return to your hospital room. If this was done as an outpatient procedure, you will remain in the clinic area for about one hour