Ruskin coined the term pathetic fallacy to attack the sentimentality that was common to the poetry of the late 18th century, and which was was rampant among poets including Burns, Blake, Wordsworth, Shelley and Keats. In science, the term “pathetic fallacy” is used in a pejorative way in order to discourage the kind of figurative speech in descriptions that might not be strictly accurate and clear, and that might communicate a false impression of a natural phenomenon.
The fact is that they differ in their function. Pathetic fallacy is a kind of personification that gives human emotions to inanimate objects of nature for example referring to weather features reflecting a mood. For example, the sentence “The somber clouds darkened our mood” is a pathetic fallacy as human attributes are given to an inanimate object of nature reflecting a mood. But, “The sparrow talked to us” is a personification because the animate object of nature “sparrow” is given the human quality of “talking”.
The word “fallacy” nowadays is defined as an example of a flawed logic, but for Ruskin and writers of the 19th century and earlier, “fallacy” could be used to mean simply a “falseness”. In the same way, the word “pathetic” simply meant for Ruskin “emotional” or “pertaining to emotion”. In science, the term “pathetic fallacy” is used in a pejorative way in order to discourage the kind of figurative speech in descriptions that might not be strictly accurate and clear, and that might communicate a false impression of a natural phenomenon.
Full Definition of PATHETIC. 1. : having a capacity to move one to either compassionate or contemptuous pity. 2. : marked by sorrow or melancholy: sad. 3. 4. — pa·thet·i·cal \-ti-kəl\ adjective. — pa·thet·i·cal·ly \-ti-k(ə-)lē\ adverb. See pathetic defined for English-language learners. 1 The team was pretty bad last year, but this year they're downright pathetic. 2  The story he told was a pathetic attempt to cover up a lie. 3  His car is a pathetic piece of junk.
Best Answer: Ya, in a way; it does mean 'you suck', kind of expression. Also can mean you're desperate. But if we think differently, 'Pathetic' is just an expression that shows sympathetic sadness or a sorrow, but then it all depends on our thinking at the moment. It can be showing pity or it can be an expression to just say 'you suck'... It means that you are a pathetic excuse for a human being...basically that's about it. It is sort of like 'you suck'. One would say 'you're pathetic' when you wanted to insult someone...you are not up to par.
Synonyms: pathetic, pitiful, pitiable, piteous, lamentable. These adjectives describe what inspires or deserves pity. Something pathetic elicits sympathetic sadness and compassion: a most earnest ... entreaty, addressed to you in the most pathetic tones of the voice so dear to you (Charles Dickens). Both pitiful and pitiable apply to what is touchingly sad: She told a most pitiful story (Samuel Butler). also pa•thet′i•cal, 1. causing or evoking pity, either sympathetically or contemptibly; pitiful: a pathetic sight; a pathetic return on our investment. 2. sad; sorrowful; mournful: a pathetic tone of voice. pathēticus pathētikos pathētikós = sensitive(pathēt) os ós made or liable, to. suffer. v adj of paschein + -páschein-to ]. suffer ikos ic
Report Abuse. According to dictionary.com, Pathetic can be defined as: causing or evoking pity, sympathetic sadness, sorrow, etc.; pitiful; pitiable: a pathetic letter; a pathetic sight.. In other words -- it's sad. Or it's so sad that you look down on them for their actions. Best Answer: Pitiful. So ineffectual as to inspire sympathy. It is a word that, through overuse, has mostly lost its true meaning. I'd say that it means no more than unsatisfactory-at least to the person who says it. Edit-I just noticed your additional details. At 11, bless your heart, nobody's English is that good.
Pathetic Fallacy Definition. Pathetic fallacy is a literary device that attributes human qualities and emotions to inanimate objects of nature. The word “ pathetic ” in the term is not used in the derogatory sense of being miserable; rather, here, it stands for “imparting emotions to something else”. For example, the sentence “The somber clouds darkened our mood” is a pathetic fallacy as human attributes are given to an inanimate object of nature reflecting a mood. But, “The sparrow talked to us” is a personification because the animate object of nature “sparrow” is given the human quality of “talking”.
The phrase pathetic fallacy is a literary term for the attributing of human emotion and conduct to all aspects within nature. It is a kind of personification that is found in poetic writing when, for example, clouds seem sullen, when leaves dance, or when rocks seem indifferent. In science, the term “pathetic fallacy” is used in a pejorative way in order to discourage the kind of figurative speech in descriptions that might not be strictly accurate and clear, and that might communicate a false impression of a natural phenomenon.