The nephron is the basic structural unit of the kidney. It is a tubule that consists of different regions which handle the glomerular filtrate conserving valuable salts, water, proteins. Each region is a simple epithelium that is specialized to handle the unique functions. It begins with the PROXMAL CONVOLUTED TUBULE. Move into the medulla and find the tubules there. You should be able to distinguish the VASA RECTA by their content of blood cells. Also, the thin limbs and the thicker limbs of the LOOP of HENLE can be seen. Finally, the COLLECTING TUBULES are cuboidal and columnar.
The nephron is the basic structural unit of the kidney. It is a tubule that consists of different regions which handle the glomerular filtrate conserving valuable salts, water, proteins. Each region is a simple epithelium that is specialized to handle the unique functions. Kidney. Kidney Glomerulus. If you hold the section of the kidney up to the light, you can distinguish the CORTEX from the MEDULLA. In the Masson stained section, note the blue-stained CAPSULE covering the surface. View the same regions with the low magnification of the microscope.
I. INTRODUCTION. A. The urinary system consists of two kidneys, two ureters, one urinary bladder, and one urethra (Figure 26.1). B. Urine is excreted from each kidney through its ureter and is stored in the urinary bladder until it is expelled from the body through the urethra. 1. A nephron consists of a renal corpuscle where fluid is filtered, and a renal tubule into which the filtered fluid passes (Figure 26.5). a. Nephrons perform three basic functions: glomerular filtration, tubular reabsorption, and tubular secretion.
The epithelium is called Bowman's capsule. That part of the epithelium covering the capillaries is called the visceral epithelium. The part forming the capsule is called parietal epithelium. The filtration membrane is formed from the endothelial cells of the capillaries, basement membrane, and visceral epithelium. Kidney. Kidney Glomerulus. If you hold the section of the kidney up to the light, you can distinguish the CORTEX from the MEDULLA. In the Masson stained section, note the blue-stained CAPSULE covering the surface. View the same regions with the low magnification of the microscope.
The ureter is the structure through which urine is conveyed from the kidney to the urinary bladder. To learn more about the structure of the kidney, see our simple (labelled) diagram of a kidney nephron. Kidney nephron: Kidney nephrons are the functional units of the kidneys. That this, it is the kidney nephrons that actually perform the kidney's main functions. There are approx. a million nephrons within each kidney. To find out more about these, visit the page about Kidney Nephrons.
The proximal tubule then changes to squamous epithelium which passes down to the medulla and then loops back up to the cortex. There are highways of tubules called MEDULLARY RAYS that contain tubules passing to the medulla. The thin part of the nephron is called the LOOP of HENLE. Move into the medulla and find the tubules there. You should be able to distinguish the VASA RECTA by their content of blood cells. Also, the thin limbs and the thicker limbs of the LOOP of HENLE can be seen. Finally, the COLLECTING TUBULES are cuboidal and columnar.
[The nephron microanatomy of the kidney in the lamprey Lampetra fluviatilis L. before and after metamorphosis]. [Article in Russian]. Semenov AV, Fok EM, Goncharevskaia OA. Isolated nephrons from premetamorphic lamprey larvae and adult animals were obtained using microdissection and kidney collagenase treatment methods. Significant differences in the architectonics of kidney tubules were found in larvae as compared with adults. The position of larval kidney was cranial while that in adult lampreys was caudal. The absence of nephron loop was noted in larval kidney. Distal and proximal tubules were shifted one from another in mediolateral direction. Distal tubule was significantly larger than proximal one.
Kidney Health Care-David Mangusan Jr, PTRP. The nephron is the tiny filtering structure in your kidneys. Each of your kidneys contain more than a million tiny filtering nephrons that help clean your blood. Function of the Nephrons. Your nephrons help: Each nephron is composed of two main structures: the glomerulus and renal (kidney) tubule. The Glomerulus. The glomerulus is a tiny blood vessel or capillary, which looks like a ball of yarn. Actual filtering of your blood occurs in the glomerulus. 
What is Nephron and function. Nephron-The microscopic functional unit of the kidney. Each kidney contains more than a million nephrons, each of which extends from the renal cortex into the renal medulla in fairly linear fashion. Two elements make up the nephron: the renal tubules and the renal corpuscle. Each segment of the tubule reabsorbs different substances from the filtrate as it passes through them. A second network of capillaries separate from the glomerulus, the peritubular capillaries, entwines the renal tubule to allow the reabsorbed materials to reenter the blood circulation.