Travelmath provides a database of major and local cities around the world. You can find the latitude and longitude of any world city, and check the city distance by comparing the flight distance between cities with the driving distance to see how far two cities are from each other. 
WGS 84 is the latest revision of the World Geodetic System, which is used in mapping and navigation, including GPS satellite navigation system (the Global Positioning System). Geographic coordinates (latitude and longitude) define a position on the Earth's surface. Coordinates are angular units. The canonical form of latitude and longitude representation uses degrees (°), minutes (′), and seconds (″). GPS systems widely use coordinates in degrees and decimal minutes, or in decimal degrees.
WGS 84 is the latest revision of the World Geodetic System, which is used in mapping and navigation, including GPS satellite navigation system (the Global Positioning System). Geographic coordinates (latitude and longitude) define a position on the Earth's surface. Coordinates are angular units. The canonical form of latitude and longitude representation uses degrees (°), minutes (′), and seconds (″). GPS systems widely use coordinates in degrees and decimal minutes, or in decimal degrees
Oranjestad, Aruba Lat Long Coordinates Info. The latitude of Oranjestad, Aruba is 12.510052, and the longitude is -70.009354. Oranjestad, Aruba is located at Aruba country in the Cities place category. Oranjestad is a wonderful city, the capital and the largest city of Aruba, a small state situated to the north of Venezuela in southern Caribbean Sea. The population of the city exceeds 30,000 people. It is a very popular tourist spot and the place for a huge number of cruise ships to land.
The latitude of a point on the Earth's surface is the north or south angular distance between the point and the equator. The longitude of a point is the east or west angul … ar distance between the point and the Prime Meridian. The starting line for longitude is the imaginary line between the north and south poles that passes through a certain place in a certain suburb of London. The line is called the Prime Meridian. Latitudes are imaginary lines that go east to west while longitudes go north to south.
Aruba flag: Time zone at the center of Aruba: America/Aruba. Note that many countries span multiple time zones, so if you're looking for the world time difference to schedule a meeting or make a phone call, try searching for a particular city to get the local time there. Current time zone offset: UTC/GMT -4 hours.
In geography, latitude is a geographic coordinate that specifies the north-south position of a point on the Earth's surface. Longitude is a geographic coordinate that specifie … s the east-west position of a point on the Earth's surface. The starting line for longitude is the imaginary line between the north and south poles that passes through a certain place in a certain suburb of London. The line is called the Prime Meridian. Latitudes are imaginary lines that go east to west while longitudes go north to south.
Aruba is an island travel destination that is situated in the Caribbean Sea. The latitude and longitude measurements of Aruba are, 12°30' North and 69°58' West. The Equator also passes by Aruba very closely. Because of the location among these latitude and longitude, Aruba has a weather that is marked by almost a perpetual summer throughout the year. Latitude and longitude have a great effect on Aruba climate and subsequently on its economy. 
Oranjestad, Aruba. Oranjestad is a wonderful city, the capital and the largest city of Aruba, a small state situated to the north of Venezuela in southern Caribbean Sea. The population of the city exceeds 30,000 people. It is a very popular tourist spot and the place for a huge number of cruise ships to land.
Location of Oranjestad on a map. Oranjestad is the capital city of Aruba. It has a population of 29,998, and is located on a latitue of 12.52 and longitude of -70.03. Located in the continent of the Caribbean, Aruba covers 180 square kilometers of land, making it the 222nd largest nation in terms of land area. Aruba is a dependant territory of The Netherlands. The population of Aruba is 107,635 (2012) and the nation has a density of 598 people per square kilometer.