Last summer, the auction house sold a rare 1888 card of Hall of Fame baseball player Michael 'King' Kelly for $72,000. The priciest baseball card ever is a 1909 Honus Wagner card, which sold for $2.8 million in 2007. It's not the same as a modern baseball card, which became commonplace beginning in the 1880s. Instead, it's an original photograph from 1865 of the Brooklyn Atlantics amateur baseball club mounted on a card. The card shows nine players gathered around their manager. Strike! The rare 1865 baseball card of the Brooklyn Atlantics, discovered in a photo album bought at a yard sale in Baileyville, Maine, is expected to raise $100,000 at auction
Welcome to Net54baseball.com. These forums are devoted to both Pre-and Post-war baseball cards and vintage memorabilia, as well as other sports. There is a separate section for B uying, S elling and T rading-the B/S/T area!! If you give an opinion of a person or company your full name needs to be in your post. I think that Leon's point was that the 1869 Red Stockings are generally considered the first recognized all-professional team, hence the 1869 Peck and Snyder would be considered the first baseball card of the professional era.
The oldest known baseball card is the 1869 Peck and Snyder Cincinnati Red Stockings card. Since the game is released in sets there isn't an oldest card. The oldest set put into production for public sale was simply 'Magic the Gathering' with no additional sub tit … les, released in 1993. It was first printed in two black bordered production runs known to collectors as Alpha and Beta
A baseball card is a type of trading card relating to baseball, usually printed on some type of paper stock or card stock. 
First Baseball Card Value Made over 130 years ago there is a debate on which is the first card ever made. One of the cards under debate as the first player to appear on a base … ball card is Dave Birdsall The Old Man of the Unions of Morisannia ball club (1866-1870). Dave Birdsall 'The Old Man' The first baseball cards were issued over 130 years ago, and the answer to this question will be debated over the next 130 years.
To my mind, the first baseball card (not cdvs, photos, cabinets, trade cards, etc.) set was the N167 Old Judge set. Debates about what is a card are interesting and endless. I doubt there will ever be consensus. I think that Leon's point was that the 1869 Red Stockings are generally considered the first recognized all-professional team, hence the 1869 Peck and Snyder would be considered the first baseball card of the professional era.
With the inclusion of one of the finest known 1869 Peck & Snyder Cincinnati Red Stockings Trade Card, industry leader SCP Auctions continues to bring high-quality cards and memorabilia in its second Internet auction of 2009. World’s Oldest Baseball Card, Rare 1869 Peck & Snyder Cincinnati Red Stockings Trade Card, Highlights SCP Auctions’ July Internet Auction.