English names generally consist of a given name, middle name and family name. Many English speaking countries have fairly flexible naming laws. This allows the multicultural families that live in these countries to merge the naming conventions of their faiths or previous nationalities with their current homeland. View the Lenny Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Lenny has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Lenny to other names.
English Meaning: The name Lenny is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Lenny is: Abbreviation of Leonard. American Meaning: The name Lenny is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Lenny is: Abbreviation of Leonard. German Meaning: The name Lenny is a German baby name. In German the meaning of the name Lenny is: Hardy lion or lion-bold. St Leonard is the patron saint of prisoners. Famous Bearers: American composer/conductor Leonard Bernstein; Italian Renaissance artist/scientist Leonardo da Vinci (in Italian form).
Lenny is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 5 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Le-nny. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 1610 in baby name popularity for boys with 96 occurrences. It ranked 13834 in popular baby names for girls with 7 occurrences.iew the Lenny Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Lenny has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Lenny to other names.
Comments and insights on the name Lenny: | Edit. I think the name Lenny is a very nice name. It is unknown to me why Lenny is not a popular name. Lenny and Lynne are anagrams of each other; they contain the same letters.
Here are pictures of people with the name Lenny. Help us put a face to the name by uploading your pictures to BabyNames.com!
Lenny is a somewhat prominent first name for men (#968 out of 1220, Top 79%) and an even more prominent last name for all people (#74398 out of 150436, Top 49%). (2000 U.S. Census). (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the birth name popularity of Lenny for boys. Lenny entered the list in 1950-1959 and reached its apex position of #611 in the U.S. in the 1960s, but is not found in the list at the moment.
German Name Meaning-Diminutive of Leonard: Hardy lion or lion-bold. St Leonard is the patron saint of prisoners. Famous Bearers: American composer/conductor Leonard Bernstein; Italian Renaissance artist/scientist Leonardo da Vinci (in Italian form).. Other origins for the name Lenny include-German, Scottish, English.The name Lenny is most often used as a boy name or male name. In German, the name Lenny means-Diminutive of Leonard: Hardy lion or lion-bold.
Lenny ▼ is alike in pronunciation to Lanny ▼ . Other suggested similar baby names are Benny ▼ , Denny ▼ , Kenny ▼ , Linn, Lonn, Lonne, Lunn, Lynn ▼ , Renny and Tenny. These names tend to be less commonly used than Lenny.2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the birth name popularity of Lenny for boys. Lenny entered the list in 1950-1959 and reached its apex position of #611 in the U.S. in the 1960s, but is not found in the list at the moment.
Meaning of Lenny. German name. In German, the name Lenny means-Diminutive of Leonard: Hardy lion or lion-bold. St Leonard is the patron saint of prisoners. Famous Bearers: American composer/conductor Leonard Bernstein; Italian Renaissance artist/scientist Leonardo da Vinci (in Italian form).. Other origins for the name Lenny include-German, Scottish, English.The name Lenny is most often used as a boy name or male