1. law of proximity-a Gestalt principle of organization holding that (other things being equal) objects or events that are near to one another (in space or time) are perceived as belonging together as a unit. Gestalt law of organization, Gestalt principle of organization-a principle of Gestalt psychology that identifies factors leading to particular forms of perceptual organization.
Noun. 1. law of proximity-a Gestalt principle of organization holding that (other things being equal) objects or events that are near to one another (in space or time) are perceived as belonging together as a unit. proximity. Gestalt law of organization, Gestalt principle of organization-a principle of Gestalt psychology that identifies factors leading to particular forms of perceptual organization.
Gestalt psychology tries to understand the laws of our ability to acquire and maintain meaningful perceptions in an apparently chaotic world. The central principle of gestalt psychology is that the mind forms a global whole with self-organizing tendencies. This principle maintains that when the human mind (perceptual system) forms a percept or gestalt, the whole has a reality of its own, independent of the parts. The gestalt effect is the capability of our brain to generate whole forms, particularly with respect to the visual recognition of global figures instead of just collections of simpler and unrelated elements (points, lines, curves...). In psychology, gestaltism is often opposed to structuralism.
3. proximity-a Gestalt principle of organization holding that (other things being equal) objects or events that are near to one another (in space or time) are perceived as belonging together as a unit. law of proximity. Proximity. cheek by jowl Side by side, in close proximity. Cheek by jowl, in use since 1577, is a variation of the older cheek by cheek, which dates from 1330.
1. the property of being close together. 2. the region close around a person or thing. 3. a Gestalt principle of organization holding that (other things being equal) objects or events that are near to one another (in space or time) are perceived as belonging together as a unit. Familiarity information: PROXIMITY used as a noun is uncommon. Dictionary entry details. • PROXIMITY (noun). 
There are two main reasons why people form groups with others nearby rather than people further away. First, human beings like things that are familiar to them. Second, the more people come into contact with one another, the more likely the interaction will cultivate a relationship. Also, proximity promotes interaction between individuals and groups, which ends up leading to liking and disliking between the groups or individuals. These are not in any speciﬁc order, but they are an important to consider to fully understand the principles of attraction. The other principles are, The Elaboration Principle, The Similarity Principle, The Complementarity Principle, The Reciprocity Principle, and the Minimax Principle.
Gestalt is a psychology term which means unified whole. It refers to theories of visual perception developed by German psychologists in the 1920s. These theories attempt to describe how people tend to organize visual elements into groups or unified wholes when certain principles are applied. These principles are: 