Most home pregnancy tests will give accurate results if you test at the time your period would normally be due, about two weeks after you ovulate. A test may be negative for several reasons. You may not be pregnant. Or, you may have ovulated later than you thought, and not be as far along in pregnancy as you thought. You can get a negative hcg test and still be pregnant at 5 weeks.. From my experience, I had about 10 false pregnancy tests and even a false blood test.. On January 17 I had a Negative BLOOD TEST..
The best way to get accurate results when using a home pregnancy test is to wait until your period late. At that time, the level of hCG in your sytem will be large enough that all of the pregnancy tests on the market will be able to detect it, producing a positive pregnancy test result. The best results, especially early in pregnancy, are when you take a pregnancy test with the first morning urine. That allows the hcg to build up to a level that the tests can pick up on. As you go through the day, and drink liquids, the concentration gets diluted and can produce a nega
1 The earlier after a missed period that you take a home pregnancy test, the harder it is for the test to detect HCG. 2  For the most accurate results, take the test one week after a missed period — when the level of HCG in your urine is most likely to be detectable. 1 Drinking too much fluid before taking a home pregnancy test might cause a false-negative result. 2  For the most accurate results, take the test first thing in the morning — when your urine is the most concentrated.
It's possible to get a negative result from a home pregnancy test when you're actually pregnant. This is known as a false-negative — and it's much more likely to occur than is a false-positive. You might get a false-negative if you: 1  Take the test too early. 2  The earlier after a missed period that you take a home pregnancy test, the harder it is for the test to detect HCG. 1 Drinking too much fluid before taking a home pregnancy test might cause a false-negative result. 2  For the most accurate results, take the test first thing in the morning — when your urine is the most concentrated.
1. Testing To Early. One of the most common reasons for a false negative result is testing too early. In order for a pregnancy test to show accurate results, you have to give your body time to produce the levels of hcg (pregnancy hormone) that the pregnancy test needs in order to trigger a positive result. Typically, if you get a positive pregnancy test, you are pregnant. False positives are pretty rare. As you are just a little late, it could be that your system hasn’t had the time to build up a high enough level of hcg in your urine on a continual basis.
A negative result on a home pregnancy test COULD mean that you are not pregnant, that the test was performed too early, or that there was a problem with the technique or timing. If you suspect that you are pregnant and that you received a false negative, wait for a few days and test again. Typically, if you get a positive pregnancy test, you are pregnant. False positives are pretty rare. As you are just a little late, it could be that your system hasn’t had the time to build up a high enough level of hcg in your urine on a continual basis.
A false positive test result—a positive human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) test result when you are not pregnant—can occur for a variety of reasons. Most over-the-counter pregnancy tests measure the levels of hCG in a woman’s urine. Blood tests can detect hCG at lower levels than urine tests, and therefore can detect a pregnancy earlier. Of course, it is possible for a woman to become pregnant, get a positive test result, and then miscarry. This is known as a chemical pregnancy.
Yes it's for sure. You can get a negative hcg test and still be pregnant at 5 weeks.. From my experience, I had about 10 false pregnancy tests and even a false blood test.. On January 17 I had a Negative BLOOD TEST.. January 25 and 28 negative hcg test..and finally on feb 4th positive hcg and BLOOD TEST ..
Despite a negative test result, it’s very possible that you are pregnant, but the hCG levels are too low for a test to accurately detect it. Another cause of false-negative pregnancy test results is erratic or improper testing techniques. Most test sticks need to be saturated in urine to get accurate results. 
Improper testing can lead to false positive results. When taking a home pregnancy test, it is very important to read the directions before testing. Your home pregnancy test instructions will specify when test results should be interpreted and when test results are no longer valid. False Positive Pregnancy Test. If you've taken a home pregnancy test and get two lines (or a plus sign depending on the brand and type of test), you assume this means you are pregnant. After all, home pregnancy tests claim an accuracy rate of over 99%.