In a very young child, the presentation of symptoms associated with appendicitis tends to be different from adults, so when trying to decide between fast-track surgery versus watchful observation, you're often damned if you do and damned if you don't, Bundy said. A 5-year-old with abdominal pain, nausea and fever may have appendicitis or any of a number of other problems.
Early appendicitis symptoms in children are less common. Infants and young children are usually more difficult to diagnose with appendicitis because they cannot communicate their symptoms with their parents or doctors. Without a clear explanation of symptoms, doctors must rely on a physical exam and less specific symptoms, such as vomiting and fatigue.
Many children do not report the early symptoms of appendicitis and only appreciate the pain when it localizes to the RLQ. In addition, children with a retrocecal appendicitis may have a delay in the appreciable pain, leading to a delay in presentation. Certain features of a child's presentation may suggest a perforated appendix. A child younger than 6 years with symptoms for more than 48 hours is much more likely to have a perforated appendix. The child may have generalized abdominal pain and may have a high heart rate and a temperature higher than 38°C.
Usually, diagnosis of appendicitis in children is difficult, as the symptoms can be confused with some other disease. The symptoms of appendicitis are usually similar to those seen in adults but problem arises because children are unable to explain the discomfort and pain that they are suffering from. The child might suffer from slight fever. If it is an appendicitis pain the child will probably not feel like eating. This can be surmounted by a feeling of nausea and vomiting. Children with the appendicitis pain have a tendency of frequent urination and are unable to control their bladder for long. A slight swelling in the abdomen is also an important sign that indicates appendicitis in children
Symptoms. Signs and symptoms of appendicitis may include: 1  Sudden pain that begins on the right side of the lower abdomen. 2  Sudden pain that begins around your navel and often shifts to your lower right abdomen. 3  Pain that worsens if you cough, walk or make other jarring movements. 4  Nausea and vomiting. 5  Loss of appetite
Appendicitis in children has a variety of symptoms, most notably abdominal pain. Appendicitis, or the inflammation of the appendix, is a condition that will require medical attention as quickly as possible so it's important to be able to recognize its symptoms. Appendicitis in children typically begins with pain around the bellybutton area and a mild fever. As the condition progresses this pain can get worse and will start to spread down to the right side of the abdomen. This may be accompanied by a loss of appetite, constipation, diarrhea and vomiting.
Symptoms of Appendicitis. It's important to know the symptoms of appendicitis so you can get help quickly. For children 2 years old and younger, the most common signs of appendicitis are pain in the lower belly, vomiting and swelling in the belly. An older child may first complain of pain near the belly button. Over time, the pain moves to the lower-right belly