Maui is the second largest of the Hawaiian Islands. Its diverse geography is what makes it unique. It is surrounded by 30 miles of sandy beaches. Aside from it's red, black and white sand beaches and crystal clear water, Maui also has high-altitude mountain slopes and lowlands. 
What Makes Kauai Unique. If there's something that makes Kauai unique, it's the fact that everything Hawaiian can be found in the islands. From its rich history, geology, culture, and sights, you can get a full view of what Hawaii is all about in Kauai. If you're asking for scenic beaches, Kauai has those. Another feature of Kauai that makes it unique is the natural beauty of its surroundings and the rich plant and animal life that it hosts on its island. The valleys, crags, mountains, and canyons in Kauai present some of the most majestic views in Hawaii.
Unique is what a person finds unique. I don't find Hawaii Unique when compared to Guam, Tahiti, Fiji, etc. But it's Unique when compared to the mainland. I see not difference between Miami and Venice Beach, or Seattle and Portland, or NYC and Chicago. But I do see a uniqueness if comparing Boston to Yuma, or Nashville to LA. Originally Posted by VanHa. When I travel to other parts of the U.S. there seems to be a general theme that Hawaii is just another state that has been absorbed into the mainland...and does not have its own culture and values or any uniqueness.
Report Abuse. Like the first person said, the culture. You can prolly find some nicer beaches in the Bahama's, more tropical settings in Tahiti, and nicer greenery in New Zealand, but no where else in the world will you find a culture like ours. That's because Hawaii is the point where different cultures of the pacific rim meet and meld. Here you will find traditions taken from Japan, China, Philippines, Samoa, Fiji, Tahiti, and even South America, come together to what is now known as the Hawaiian Culture. Here, common courtesy and good manners are taught all throughout life, starting before potty training. Source(s): Born and Raised, Kauai Hawaii.
Each of the Hawaiian islands has its own personality and its own sites that make for a truly memorable vacation. Since I just returned from the big island of Hawaii, I want to share with you 3 unique benefits of visiting the big island. Volcano National Park. This is unique to the island. It is accessed through Hilo, which is on the windward side of the island, so it gets more rain. So if you are staying on the Kona side of the island, do check the weather report for Hilo before driving over. It’s about a two hour drive to the park from the Kona area
People often times send the rocks they collected and took home back to the Hawaii Volcanoes National Park with no return addresses. The Hawaiian culture is rich, living, mysterious and unique. It's what truly makes Hawaii special. So, when you're in Hawaii, be sure to look past the sunsets, sunshine, surf and sand and take the time to explore the culture that makes the Hawaiian Islands truly special and unforgettable. 1  Hawaiian Tattoos. 
The ambiance of the Hawaiian islands can make a one week vacation so relaxing that it seems like two. Hawaii lends itself well to romantic vacations for couples with its knock-out gorgeous beaches, sunsets, and high-quality hotels. Volcano National Park. This is unique to the island. It is accessed through Hilo, which is on the windward side of the island, so it gets more rain. So if you are staying on the Kona side of the island, do check the weather report for Hilo before driving over.
Hawaii is special because of the energy that is here. We call it aloha. It is a spirit that is unique to these islands and you cannot find it anywhere else. That is what brings people back year after year. 