Place it in the pan on top of the rosemary and garlic, and put the rest of the rosemary and garlic on top of the lamb. Tightly cover the tray with aluminum foil and place in the oven. Turn the oven down immediately to 325 degrees F and cook for 4 hours-it's done if you can pull the meat apart easily with 2 forks. 
This is a video cooking a whole lamb. This is a nearly 37 pound lamb. Cook time was 5 hr 20 mins. This is the first time that I have cooked a whole lamb. This lamb was spit roasted over open fire. I used lemons, rosemary and oregano as seasoning together with a lot of lemons, kosher salt and pepper. I also used a little ginger.
Roasting a whole lamb or whole goat is fun! If you have read my pages on cooking a whole pig then you probably know most of the details on how to cook a whole roast lamb as well! While the flavors are distinctly different and the recipes are different, the cooking equipment and process is similar. I hope this helps get you on your way to a wonderful whole lamb roast! Be sure to check out my whole roast lamb recipe for more details on how to cook your lamb. Cheers! The best place I know of to buy whole hog or lamb rotisseries and other accessories for pit roasts is SpitJack.
Cooking Roast Lamb. 1  Most of the details of how to go about roasting a whole lamb can be found on my roast lamb recipe page. 2  Lamb is best when still slightly pink, not well done. 3  To develop a nice glaze on the surface and to infuse the meat with additional flavor, a whole lamb really takes to frequent basting well. I hope this helps get you on your way to a wonderful whole lamb roast! Be sure to check out my whole roast lamb recipe for more details on how to cook your lamb. Cheers! The best place I know of to buy whole hog or lamb rotisseries and other accessories for pit roasts is SpitJack.
As always, there are many different recipes for cooking a leg of lamb. Elise cooks her leg of lamb with the bone in by starting at 425 degrees for 20 minutes then turns the oven down to 300°F and continues to roast the meat for about 10-12 minutes per pound for medium rare lamb. 
1. Roast the lamb for 30 minutes. Place the roasting pan in the oven and roast at a high temperature for half an hour. This will create a delicious crust around the leg of lamb. 
1 Most of the details of how to go about roasting a whole lamb can be found on my roast lamb recipe page. 2  However, a couple important points should be mentioned here. 3  Lamb is best when still slightly pink, not well done. 4  Unlike pork, there are no safety issues with medium-rare or medium lamb. I hope this helps get you on your way to a wonderful whole lamb roast! Be sure to check out my whole roast lamb recipe for more details on how to cook your lamb. Cheers! The best place I know of to buy whole hog or lamb rotisseries and other accessories for pit roasts is SpitJack.
Rotisserie. 1  Lamb's tend to be a bit longer than most whole pigs of the same weight but most are lighter (except for small suckling pigs). 2  Most rotisseries which hold a whole hog will be more than adequate to support the size and weight of a 30 lb. lamb. I hope this helps get you on your way to a wonderful whole lamb roast! Be sure to check out my whole roast lamb recipe for more details on how to cook your lamb. Cheers! The best place I know of to buy whole hog or lamb rotisseries and other accessories for pit roasts is SpitJack.
Directions. Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F. Using your hands, rub the lamb all over with the lemon juice. Pat the garlic and rosemary evenly all over the surface of the meat. Season the meat with the salt and pepper and place the lamb in a roasting pan. Place the lamb in the oven and roast for 30 minutes. 