Coolant should always be added through the expansion (overflow) tank. NEVER REMOVE THE RADIATOR CAP FROM A HOT ENGINE. REMOVING THE PRESSURE CAN CAUSE STEAM TO SHOOT OUT AND SERIOUSLY BURN YOU. Just because your cap is a 13 psi cap does not mean that your coolant system is under a maximum of 13 psi.
This is the principle that causes the cooling system to work; the hotter the coolant is, the faster the heat in it moves to the radiator and the air passing by. So, a cooling system under pressure takes heat away from the engine faster, which makes it more efficient.
The pressure cap is similar to the safety valve found on a kitchen pressure cooker. The pressure cap seals the operating cooling system forcing the hot pressurized coolant to carry approximately 50 more degrees of heat than the normal (212) boiling point of water.
The car’s radiator acts as a heat exchanger, transferring excess heat from the engine’s coolant fluid into the air. The radiator is composed of tubes that carry the coolant fluid, a protective cap that’s actually a pressure valve and a tank on each side to catch the coolant fluid overflow.
Ways to check if your radiator cap is causing problems on your car. Overheat diagnosis. Air in the cooling system. Coolant overflow not on proper level. How a car radiator cap works. How to diagnose a fualty radiator cap. Car radiator cap ..
The cap is actually a pressure release valve, and on cars it is usually set to 15 psi. The boiling point of water increases when the water is placed under pressure. When the fluid in the cooling system heats up, it expands, causing the pressure to build up.
Purpose of the Pressure Cap. When the pressure inside the cooling system increases above its psi rating, the pressure cap releases some of the coolant into the overflow tank. It does this by use of a spring loaded valve. Once enough coolant has exited the system to reduce the pressure, the valve closes again.
To prevent this, the radiator cap has a pressure relief valve. The valve has a preset rating that allows it to take just up to a certain amount of pressure. When you turn the cap on the filler neck of the radiator, you seal the upper and lower sealing surfaces of the filler neck.