Normal Flora of the Nasopharynx. Streptococcus. Members of the genus Streptococcus are commonly found as resident flora in the nose and throat of humans. S. mutans, S. gordonii, and S. salivarius are examples of resident mouth flora. Group A Strep such as S. pyogenes (one are found in approximately 5-15% of normal individuals as part of the normal throat flora. Streptococcus species are cultured on blood agar plates, and classified based on hemolytic patterns. Neisseria. 
It is part of the normal flora of the respiratory tract in many people, but usually does not cause complications until the person's natural defenses to disease compromised.[5] Streptococcus pyogenes is somewhat unique in that it does not cause just one disease, but is capable of causing many different diseases. Cellulitus is an inflammation of the skin and deep tissues that can be caused by Streptococcus pyogenes. Cellulitus begins when Streptococcus pyogenes infects the site of a minor injury, such as a bruise, burn, or wound. It causes the skin to turn red, widespread pain, swelling, and tenderness of the infected area.
Streptococcus pyogenes, or Group A Streptococcus, (GAS) is a Gram-positive bacterium and one of the most frequent pathogens found in the normal flora of humans. In recent years, there has been an increase in the variety and severity of Streptococcus pyogenes infections, including those that are invasive. Though Strep remains susceptible to penicillin, some strains are known to be resistant to macrolides, such as erythromycin, as well as tetracyclines and clindamycin.
Group A strep (S. pyogenes) are the most common bacterial cause of acute pharyngitis (sore throat). About 20% of sore throat are caused by Group A Strep (the most of the rest cases by viruses). SYMPTOMS (2-4 days) PHARYNGITIS generally develops 2 to 4 days after exposure to the pathogen. 
Streptococcus pyogenes, also known as the flesh eating bacteria, is the most pathogenic bacterium in the whole genus (2). The name pyogenes comes from the word pyogenic, which is a classification for the streptococci that are associated with pus formation. Streptococcus pyogenes is a gram-positive bacterium that usually grows in pairs or chains. It has been classified as a beta-hemolytic streptococcus because when cultured on a blood agar plate all the red blood cells are ruptured by the bacteria (1).
Group A Strep is the cause of such non-invasive diseases as strep throat and impetigo, as well as much more harmful lethal conditions such as streptococcal toxic shock syndrome (STSS) and necrotizing fasciitis (NF)--also known as flesh-eating disease--among others. In recent years, there has been an increase in the variety and severity of Streptococcus pyogenes infections, including those that are invasive. Though Strep remains susceptible to penicillin, some strains are known to be resistant to macrolides, such as erythromycin, as well as tetracyclines and clindamycin.
Streptococcus pyogenes: This species causes streptococcal pharyngitis, which is commonly referred to as  strep throat .. It can also cause rheumatic fever, scarlet fever, and necrotizing fasciitis (also known as the flesh eating bacterial infection). This Gram-positive bacteria can be treated with penicillin. 
Streptococcus pyogenes is a species of bacteria. Like most other streptococci, it is clinically important in human illness. It is an infrequent, but usually pathogenic, part of the skin flora. It is the sole species of Lancefield group A and is often called group A streptococcus (GAS), because it displays streptococcal group A antigen on its cell wall
Groups A and B are the most common and devastating human pathogens. Group A Streptococcus bacteria causes disease ranging from streptococcal sore throat (strep throat) to necrotizing fasciitis (flesh-eating disease). They can also cause scarlet fever, rheumatic fever, postpartum fever, and streptococcal toxic shock syndrome. Ecology. Streptococci are a part of normal animal flora. Although some can cause diseases. The progression from latency to virulence is not well-understood, but the sequencing of the Streptococcus genomes is aiding researchers in understanding better the mechanisms of streptococci.
Streptococcus pyogenes is the most common bacterial cause of sore throat.[6] A painful, red throat with white patches on your tonsils is characteristic of pharyngitis, otherwise known as strep throat. Cellulitus is an inflammation of the skin and deep tissues that can be caused by Streptococcus pyogenes. Cellulitus begins when Streptococcus pyogenes infects the site of a minor injury, such as a bruise, burn, or wound. It causes the skin to turn red, widespread pain, swelling, and tenderness of the infected area.