Because an enhanced driver's license is cheaper than a passport book or passport card, consider getting one if you cruise between the Bahamas and the United States often. Enhanced driver's licenses are not acceptable forms of identification at Jamaican border crossings. Although a passport is the most common form of international identification, it is not the only way to get into Jamaica and the Bahamas.
Traveling to the Bahamas by Sea. U.S. citizens traveling to the Bahamas by sea must have a valid passport. Their port of entry and re-entry should be the same. Citizens will need a United States issued passport or passport card, or a (WHTI) compliant document. It is advisable for Americans to obtain their passport early in the event of an emergency. Traveling to the Bahamas by Air. Americans traveling abroad or internationally need a valid United States issued passport. A U.S. passport allows Americans to travel to any world of the world, legally. This includes travels to the Caribbean, Mexico, Canada and the Bahamas
If you are traveling by air to the Bahamas or Jamaica, you are required to show a valid U.S. passport upon leaving the United States. Although a passport is the most common form of international identification, it is not the only way to get into Jamaica and the Bahamas.
Actually, it depends. Right now, if you’re traveling to or from the Bahamas by sea, all you need is government-issued photo identification and proof of citizenship, such as your birth certificate. However, if you’re flying, you have to have a US passport to re-enter the US from the Bahamas. On June 1st, 2009, the rules are changing again. After that date, almost everybody who is traveling to the Bahamas will need a passport to re-enter the US, whether they are traveling by land or by sea. If you need to get a passport to go the Bahamas, you should apply for it as soon as possible. It can take 6 weeks or longer for you to receive your passport if you apply for regular processing, so make sure you allow enough time.
A US passport card is a travel document that can be used by US citizens to enter the United States from land border crossings or sea ports-of-entry from the Caribbean, Bermuda, Canada, and Mexico. The passport card cannot be used for entry into the states by air. When traveling by air from the Bahamas, all US citizens must provide a valid US passport to enter or re-enter the states. Citizens traveling to the Bahamas on short trips for tourist or business purposes do not require a visa. It is of note that many airlines do not allow US citizens to fly to the Bahamas without a valid passport. This is in an effort to prevent them from not being able to board a flight home.
When traveling by sea from the Bahamas, US citizens must present a passport card, passport, or other Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative-compliant identification to enter or re-enter the states. Citizens traveling to the Bahamas on short trips for tourist or business purposes do not require a visa. It is of note that many airlines do not allow US citizens to fly to the Bahamas without a valid passport. This is in an effort to prevent them from not being able to board a flight home.
To enter The Bahamas, citizens from Latin America are required to present a valid passport which must cover the period of intended stay. You are not required to have a Bahamas visa if the stay is less than 3 months. If you are departing The Bahamas for a country that has the passport validity requirement of six (6) months beyond the dates of travel, then that requirement will be enforced. Other Countries. To enter The Bahamas, citizens from countries other than the US and Canada are required to present a valid passport which must be current up to your travel period and some countries are also required to have a Bahamas visa.
The Bahamas and Jamaica accept the U.S. passport book or card as forms of identification when entering via a port. The passport card functions like a passport book for land and sea crossings between the countries in the Western Hemisphere Travel Initiative. Although a passport is the most common form of international identification, it is not the only way to get into Jamaica and the Bahamas.