Another feature of Hunan cuisine is that the menu changes with the seasons. In a hot and humid summer, a meal will usually start with cold dishes or a platter holding a selection of cold meats with chilies for opening the pores and keeping cool in the summer. It is one of the Eight Great Traditions of Chinese cuisine and is well known for its hot spicy flavour, fresh aroma and deep colour. Common cooking techniques include stewing, frying, pot-roasting, braising, and smoking.
Hunan chicken tends to be spicier, yet plainer in taste. Summary: 1) Szechuan and Hunan Chicken are Chinese dishes originating from two different regions. 2) They are both composed of a great deal of chilies and garlic. Hunan, however, is generally hotter in flavor than the Szechuan dish. 3) Szechuan chicken result in a good mix of sweet and spicy while Hunan chicken is plainer and hotter.
Definition of HUNAN. : of, relating to, or being a hot and spicy style of Chinese cooking. Variants of HUNAN. Origi
It is based loosely on the cooking style of the Hunan region of southeastern China, particularly along the Xiang river; most experts concede, though, that there is no single chicken dish from this region so popular as to warrant such a universal name. Hunan chicken can be served over nutritious brown rice. Spicy foods like chili peppers are commonly used in Hunan chicken. Hunan chicken is named for the cooking style of the Hunan region in southeastern China, particularly along the Xiang River. Peppercorns can supplement hunan chicken for an added punch. With its high smoking point and mild flavor, peanut oil is ideal for making a Hunan chicken stir-fry
Report Abuse. Hunan is Malaysian and is usually yellow in color.. if am not mistaken it also has coconut milk in it.. Szechuan is Chinese and the sauce is usually red and peppery (because the sauce is made from szechuan peppers). I keep getting confused between Hunan and Szecuhan chicken from a chinese restaurant.. I think one has darker sauce, and one has water chestnuts and the other doesen't, but I don't know which is which.. Add your answer. Source.
Szechuan vs Hunan Chicken. Every corner in the world has a place for Chinese cuisine. And two of the most favorite dishes among the omnifarious Oriental gastronomy are Szechuan and Hunan Chicken. Regardless of their same country of origin, the said dishes aren’t quite alike. Hunan, however, is generally hotter in flavor than the Szechuan dish. 3) Szechuan chicken result in a good mix of sweet and spicy while Hunan chicken is plainer and hotter.
Hunan cuisine consists of three primary styles: Known for its liberal use of chili peppers, shallots and garlic, Hunan cuisine is known for being dry hot (干辣) or purely hot, as opposed to Sichuan cuisine, to which it is often compared. It is one of the Eight Great Traditions of Chinese cuisine and is well known for its hot spicy flavour, fresh aroma and deep colour. Common cooking techniques include stewing, frying, pot-roasting, braising, and smoking.
I love Hunan beef. Really I love anything that is prepared Hunan style. Chinese peppers are so intense and dynamic. And when you combine them with some of the sweeter flavors that the Chinese use the pairing is delicious. Any boneless cut of beef steak can be used for hunan beef. Sliced red bell peppers are often stir-fried and served with Hunan beef. Hunan beef can be served with brown rice in order to boost the dish's nutritional content. If beef is unavailable, chicken can be substituted in a spicy Hunan dish.