If you are aged 17 and 18, you can work up to a maximum of 8 hours per day and 40 hours per week. You must have a break after 4.5 hours of work and a break of 12 consecutive hours after an 8 hour day. The maximum average working week is 48 hours. This does not mean that it is prohibited to work more than these hours in any week, nor does it mean that one can stop work when you have worked 48 hours in a week. However it means that on average your working time should not be greater than 48 hours. An exception is night time working where the maximum is 8 hours
If you only have one employer, though, most employers aren't so fond of paying overtime pay to their hourly employees (over 40 hours in one week you receive 1.5 times your normal hourly pay in most situations) and aren't usually so open to giving you the opportunity to work limitless hours. Best Answer: A person can work as many hours as they're willing to put in for their employer. However, thier employer has certain labour regulations they must meet, including adequate number and length of breaks, overtime hours and rates of pay, etc.
And no, your employer doesn't have to pay you overtime if you work more than eight hours in a day. The federal law is interested only in weeks, not days. As long as you work fewer than 40 hours in a week, you aren't entitled to overtime. The FLSA sets no limits on how many hours a day or week your employer can require you to work. It requires only that employers pay employees overtime (time and a half the worker's regular rate of pay) for any hours over 40 that the employee works in a week.
1 If you are 15 years you can work up to a maximum of 8 hours per week. 2  If you are 15 or over you can take up work experience up to 40 hours per week, provided it is not harmful to your 'safety, health or development'. The maximum average working week is 48 hours. This does not mean that it is prohibited to work more than these hours in any week, nor does it mean that one can stop work when you have worked 48 hours in a week. However it means that on average your working time should not be greater than 48 hours. An exception is night time working where the maximum is 8 hours
• working hours per week in any 16-week period: the maximum is an average of 48 hours in any 16-week period. You should agree with your employer about your daily and weekly working hours. Rest period after work • After a working day, you may not work for at least 11 consecutive hours. 
New York labor labor requires employers to pay employees working more than 10 hours a day one extra hour of pay, but at the minimum legal wage. Otherwise, as one labor lawyer commented, no one may work more than 168 hours per week, but only because physics prevents it -- there are only 168 hours in a week, after all. The FLSA provides that workers under 16 years of age cannot work more than 8 hours a day, with a lower limit of 3 hours daily on school days
You can work more than 48 hours a week if you choose, but your employer must not pressurize you into agreeing to this. If you choose to work more than 48 hours, you must tell your employer in writing. Your employer must keep a record to show that you have agreed to do this. You can change your mind if you want to stop working over 48 hours a week. What is meant by a 48 hour working week? The rule that you cannot work more than 48 hours a week, does not mean that you can never work more than 48 hours in one week. The number of hours you can spend at work are usually averaged out over a period of 17 weeks.
Anyone over the age of 18 can work as many hours as their employer will allow. Their employer may also require them to work as many or as few hours as the employer chooses. After 40 hours in a week, they must pay 1 1/2 times your regular wage. coolrockboy380 · 8 years ago. Thumbs up. Best Answer: A person can work as many hours as they're willing to put in for their employer. However, thier employer has certain labour regulations they must meet, including adequate number and length of breaks, overtime hours and rates of pay, etc.