Though natural selection acts on individuals, the effects of chance mean that fitness can only really be defined on average for the individuals within a population. The fitness of a particular genotype corresponds to the average effect on all individuals with that genotype.
E: But natural selection is the primary mechanism that drives evolution. C: Natural selection doesn’t drive molecules-to-man evolution; you are giving natural selection a power that it does not have—one that can supposedly add new information to the genome, as molecules-to-man evolution requires.
The core of Darwin's theory is natural selection, a process that occurs over successive generations and is defined as the differential reproduction of genotypes. Natural selection requires heritable variation in a given trait, and differential survival and reproduction associated with possession of that trait.
A process in nature in which organisms possessing certain genotypic characteristics that make them better adjusted to an environment tend to survive, reproduce, increase in number or frequency, and therefore, are able to transmit and perpetuate their essential genotypic qualities to succeeding generations.
Supplement. It is the process by which heritable traits that increase an organism’s chances of survival and reproduction are favoured than less beneficial traits. Originally proposed by Charles Darwin, natural selection is the process that results in the evolution of organism.
In 1859, Charles Darwin set out his theory of evolution by natural selection as an explanation for adaptation and speciation. He defined natural selection as the principle by which each slight variation [of a trait], if useful, is preserved.
Speciation—A Possible Outcome of Natural Selection. A species can be defined as a population of organisms produced by a parent population that has changed so significantly that it can no longer interbreed with the parent population.
Question and answer. Natural selection can best be defined as the _____. a. survival of the biggest and strongest organisms in a population b. elimination of the smallest organisms by the biggest organisms c. survival.
Biological evolution is not defined as simply change over time. Many organisms experience changes over time, such as weight loss or gain. These changes are not considered instances of evolution because they are not genetic changes that can be passed on to the next generation.
Mutations are random, but selection for them is not random, Pobiner said. But natural selection isn't the only mechanism by which organisms evolve, she said. For example, genes can be transferred from one population to another when organisms migrate or immigrate, a process known as gene flow.