Fried ripe plantains-Platanos maduros fritos. Yield: 5-6 plantains slices per plantain. Easy recipe for fried ripe plantains or platanos maduros fritos, a must-have side dish for so many Latin dishes. Ingredients. 1  2 ripe plantains. 2  1-2 tbs oil for frying, can use avocado, sunflower, peanut oil
Definition: Platanos fritos, or deep-fried plantains, are an indispensable side dish in Central America cuisine. However, platanos fritos differ from country to country, dish to dish. In Nicaragua, platanos fritos sometimes resemble potato chips, scooped from sizzling pots of oil with mesh ladles and served streetside. In Costa Rica and Belize, platanos fritos are softer, slow-fried and slightly caramelized. In most Central American countries, platanos fritos are sold in markets and grocery stores beside the Doritos and cans of Pringles.
His Platanos Fritos are served with a side of beans and Salvadorian Sour Cream or Crema. This is a beautiful and delicious dish. The texture of the Platanos are soft but not mushy and very creamy almost melting in one’s mouth. I would have never guessed eating a sweet dish like Platanos Fritos with a side of beans and sour cream, but it works, and I must say it is the only way to go. The Salvadorian Sour Cream or Crema as Antonio calls it, is a rich thick cream that is not as sour as the American version.
1 In a large skillet, melt the butter with the olive oil over medium heat; add the plantain slices and fry for about 4 minutes on each side, moving the slices with a spatula occasionally to prevent sticking. 2  Remove the plantains from the skillet with a slotted spoon and let drain on paper towels. Directions. 1  In a large skillet, melt the butter with the olive oil over medium heat; add the plantain slices and fry for about 4 minutes on each side, moving the slices with a spatula occasionally to prevent sticking.
Roasted plantain sellers in Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso. Fried plantain is a dish cooked wherever plantains grow, from Central America through West Africa to East Africa, and in many parts of Southeast Asia such as Indonesia, where fried snacks (called gorengan) are widely popular. It is called alloco in Cote côte'D ivoire and dodo In. nigeria 
1 Heat the oil over medium heat in a large frying pan and add the plantains. 2  The plantains will cook very quickly, make sure to turn them before they burn and cook until golden on each side. 3  You can use a spatula or a fork to turn them. 4  If the plantain flesh is still pink or white it means that it is not yet fully cooked. Yield: 5-6 plantains slices per plantain. Easy recipe for fried ripe plantains or platanos maduros fritos, a must-have side dish for so many Latin dishes.
Here’s my easy recipe for fried ripe plantains or platanos maduros fritos, a must-have side dish for so many Latin dishes. I experienced overexposure to plantains when I was growing up (and it was great). Yield: 5-6 plantains slices per plantain. E
Fill a 12-inch heavy-duty skillet with 1/4 inch of oil (about 1-1/2 cups) and heat over medium heat until the tip of a plantain slice dipped in the oil sizzles vigorously. Working in batches of about 12, slide the plantain slices in one at a time, making sure they’re not touching. Sliced ripe plantains retain a sweet, creamy center and become caramelized around the edges when fried. This tasty side dish makes a good accompaniment to rice and beans, roasted pork, or both.
Directions. 1  Peel plantains; cut each into thirds crosswise. 2  Cut each piece into 4 (2-inch) lengthwise slices. 3  Heat oil in a large nonstick skillet over medium heat. 4  Add plantains to pan; cook 3 minutes on each side or until lightly browned. 5  Transfer plantains to a plate; sprinkle with salt. 1 Cut each piece into 4 (2-inch) lengthwise slices. 2  Heat oil in a large nonstick skillet over medium heat. 3  Add plantains to pan; cook 3 minutes on each side or until lightly browned. 4