1 You should receive your amended refund within 6 months from the date filed. 2  If it has been more than five months since you filed your amended return, please call 1-877-252-3052 for assistance. 3  Select individual income tax then listen for the refund option to speak with an agent. 
December 28, 2010 | Author Mark Meredith. If you are having your refund direct-deposited, it should appear in your bank account 7-14 days after your return is e-filed and accepted. If you are receiving your refund by check, it will be mailed by the IRS 14-21 days after your return is e-filed and accepted. Allow a few more days for the mail system to get the check to you. Posted in. Comments are closed. 
Don’t count on getting your refund by a certain date to make major purchases or pay other financial obligations. Even though the IRS issues most refunds in less than 21 days, it’s possible your tax return may require additional review and take longer. Essentially, they’re saying most people will get their refunds in less than 21 days, but there won’t be any schedules they will follow this year. The IRS provides these tips to tax preparers to get the fastest tax refund: 1  File an accurate tax return. 2  Efile your tax return.
Best Answer: If you e-file, you usually can expect your refund within as little as 10 business days with direct deposit. It could take as long as 6 weeks. Filing this early though, you should not have a problem and should see your refund, I'd say no later than Feb 16th. Use this link and it should give you a good idea of how quickly you can get your refund. Source(s): http://www.taxact.com/products/all_efcyc...
Tax refunds are normally issued within approximately 21 days if you file electronically, but due to budget cuts, expect to wait a bit longer. Check the status of your refund within 24 hours after your e-filed tax return is received by the IRS or four weeks after your tax forms are mailed in. [Image: Daily Finance 1  ]. Share 746. 2  Tweet 18. 3  Share 9. 4  Share 10. 5  Pin It 0
If you filed a tax return by mail, your refund will be issued within six weeks from the date the return was received by the IRS, whether or not you opted for a paper check or an electronic deposit. Verify Tax Refund is Correct. Once a refund is received, taxpayers should check to ensure the amount is correct. If a check or electronic deposit arrives for more than the amount listed on the tax return, the check should not be cashed. A notice will be sent out from the IRS explaining the discrepancy in amount.
When you'll get your refund. HM Revenue and Customs (HMRC) will usually send repayments within 5 weeks, but it may take longer in some cases. You should wait 5 weeks after making an online claim and 6 weeks after making a postal claim before contacting HMRC about the payment. Print entire guide. 
If you e-file, your refund by direct deposit can be processed in as little as 6 business days after they accept your return (once your e-file provider notifies you that the IRS has accepted your return). For example, I e-filed my return on Jan 19th. My refund was deposited on Jan 27. It could take as long as 6 weeks. Filing this early though, you should not have a problem and should see your refund, I'd say no later than Feb 16th. Use this link and it should give you a good idea of how quickly you can get your refund. Source(s): http://www.taxact.com/products/all_efcyc...
Thank you. If you filed electronically, you should expect a refund to be issued 10 – 21 days after the IRS accepts the return. Please do not call our toll-free number as our representatives cannot provide further information before processing is complete nor expedite processing. 