The enrichment of water by nutrients can be of a natural origin (natural eutrophication) but is often dramatically increased by human activities (cultural or anthropogenic eutrophication). Natural eutrophication has been occurring for millennia. It is the process of addition, flow and accumulation of nutrients to water bodies resulting in changes to the primary production and species composition of the community. Cultural eutrophication is the process that speeds up natural eutrophication because of human activity. There are three main sources of anthropogenic nutrient input: erosion and leaching from fertilized agricultural areas, and sewage from cities and industrial waste water
Major sources of excess nutrients which are responsible for eutrophication are agricultural fertilizers, livestock wastes and domestic sewage. Agricultural fertilizers provide inorganic nutrients like nitrates and phosphates which play an important role in this process. Eutrophication can be of two types.Man madeWhen the waste materials like sewage effluents are thrown in the water than it contains some nutrients which causes this problem.
Eutrophication occurs when a body of water becomes overly enriched with nutrients. While this can happen naturally, accelerated eutrophication is typically the result of human activities. Learn about the human causes of eutrophication. Eutrophication can be a natural process that occurs over time due to natural runoff of soil nutrients and the decay of organic matter. However, use of the term came into common usage when human causes of eutrophication were identified. Eutrophication is typically the result of human activities that contribute excess amounts of nitrogen and phosphorus into water. Agricultural fertilizers are one of the main human causes of eutrophication. Fertilizers, used in farming to make soil more fertile, contain nitrogen and phosphorus
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Eutrophication is the excessive richness of nutrients in a body of water. This leads to an unhealthy growth of plants and the death of marine animals due to lack of oxygen. Farming and the use of too much fertilizers can contribute to eutrophication. 
There are two major causes for eutrophication in aquatic systems that are excess of nitrogen and phosphate in water. Generally these two nutrients added in aquatic system by human activities. Eutrophication can be of two types.Man madeWhen the waste materials like sewage effluents are thrown in the water than it contains some nutrients which causes this problem.
Lesson Summary. Eutrophication occurs when an aquatic system has an overabundance of nutrients. It is most often caused by human activity like farming, maintaining golf courses and other activities that can lead to fertilizer run off. 
Eutrophication (pronounced you-tro-fi-KAY-shun) is a natural process that occurs in an aging lake or pond as that body of water gradually builds up its concentration of plant nutrients. In nature, eutrophication is a common phenomenon in freshwater ecosystems and is really a part of the normal aging process of many lakes and ponds. Some never experience it because of a lack of warmth and light, but many do.
Cultural or artificial eutrophication occurs when human activity introduces increased amounts of these nutrients, which speed up plant growth and eventually choke the lake of all of its animal life. In nature, eutrophication is a common phenomenon in freshwater ecosystems and is really a part of the normal aging process of many lakes and ponds. Some never experience it because of a lack of warmth and light, but many do.