Indian name – Saptrangi. Introduction. Salacia oblonga is a woody plant found in the forests of Sri lanka and India. The Roots and stems of Salacia oblonga have been used extensively in Ayurveda and traditional Indian Medicine for the treatment for Diabetes. 1 Herbs used in traditional Indian medicine to treat diabetes seems to lower blood sugar and insulin levels in a manner similar to prescription drugs, a new study reports. 2  Researchers gave extracts of the herb Salacia oblonga to 39 healthy adults, and the results were promising.
1 HbA1C is a measure of blood sugar control. 2  A single dose of salacia, in combination with a meal, also seems to reduce after-meal insulin levels and reduce after-meal blood sugar in healthy volunteers and in people with type 2 diabetes. 3  These reductions indicate better blood sugar control. Salacia can cause uncomfortable side effects such as gas, belching, pain in the abdomen, nausea, and diarrhea in some people. Pregnancy and breast-feeding: There is not enough reliable information about the safety of taking salacia if you are pregnant or breast-feeding. Stay on the safe side and avoid use.
Salacia reticulata is an indigenous plant of the genus Salacia grown in dry zone forests in Sri Lanka. Known as kothala himbutu, it is a herbal plant used for the treatment of diabetes in ayurvedic medicine. 
In Japan it has been sold as a food supplement for several years. Salacia oblonga plant grows in limited regions of India and Sri Lanka, and it is not yet well known in the U.S. It is also known as Saptrangi and Ponkoranti. Benefit of Salacia Oblonga This herb may be beneficial in blood sugar control.
Chemical Constituents. Salacia Oblonga contains two potent a-Glucosidase inhibitors: Salicinol and Kotalanol. Parts Used. Bark of the tree. Benefits Salacia oblonga 1  : Major use of Salacia oblonga is in Diabetes. 1 Herbs used in traditional Indian medicine to treat diabetes seems to lower blood sugar and insulin levels in a manner similar to prescription drugs, a new study reports. 2  Researchers gave extracts of the herb Salacia oblonga to 39 healthy adults, and the results were promising.
Salacia is POSSIBLY SAFE when taken by mouth, short-term. Single doses of salacia can be consumed safely in doses up to 1000 mg. Consuming salacia tea with food seems to be safe for most people for up to three months. There isn't enough information to know if salacia is safe when used for long periods of time. Salacia can cause uncomfortable side effects such as gas, belching, pain in the abdomen, nausea, and diarrhea in some people. Pregnancy and breast-feeding: There is not enough reliable information about the safety of taking salacia if you are pregnant or breast-feeding. Stay on the safe side and avoid use.
The root and the root bark of the Salacia Oblonga are extensively used in the indigenous system of Ayurveda as an anti blood sugar product. Researchers proved that its phenolic constituents were found to exhibit pancreatic lipase inhibitory and anti obese effects. Salacia oblonga is an herb which is known to maintain healthy blood sugar levels over time, and thereby helps to prevent complications’ --“Journal of the American, Dietetic Association, January 2005’’. Understand about Ayurveda a 5,000 year old natural health system.
Natural, herbal extract promotes healthy glucose metabolism.* What is Salacia oblonga extract? Salacia oblonga is a climbing plant that grows in India and Sri Lanka, used extensively in Ayurvedic medicine. 
1 Superior in terms of safety compared to chemically synthesized products, Salacia Oblonga is an effective anti-diabetic agent. 2  Herbs used in traditional Indian medicine to treat diabetes seems to lower blood sugar and insulin levels in a manner similar to prescription drugs, a new study reports. 1 Herbs used in traditional Indian medicine to treat diabetes seems to lower blood sugar and insulin levels in a manner similar to prescription drugs, a new study reports. 2  Researchers gave extracts of the herb Salacia oblonga to 39 healthy adults, and the results were promising.
Latin Meaning: The name Salacia is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Salacia is: Wife of Neptune. SoulUrge Number: 3. Expression Number: 1. People with this name have a deep inner desire to create and express themselves, often in public speaking, acting, writing or singing. 