This nucleotide contains the five-carbon sugar deoxyribose, a nitrogenous base called adenine, and one phosphate group. Together, the deoxyribose and adenine make up a nucleoside (specifically, a deoxyribonucleoside) called deoxyadenosine. Nucleotides contain either a purine or a pyrimidine base. Ribonucleotides are nucleotides in which the sugar is ribose. Deoxyribonucleotides are nucleotides in which the sugar is deoxyribose. Nucleic acids are polymeric macromolecules made from nucleotide monomers.
A Closer Look: Chemical Structure of a Nucleotide. The three parts of the nucleotide building block of DNA are the sugar, the base and the phosphate. The complex of the sugar with the base is called a nucleoside.
There are two types of nucleic acids, deoxyribonucleic acid, DNA, and ribonucleic acid, RNA. DNA stores genetic information used for the synthesis of proteins including enzymes and is found in the nucleus and mitochondria. RNA has several functions and is found in the nucleus, cytosol and mitochondria. Nucleotides Structure. Primary Structure of Nucleic Acids: The sequence or order of the nucleotides defines the primary structure of DNA and RNA. The nucleotides of the polymer are linked by phosphodiester bonds connecting through the oxygen on the 5' carbon of one to the oxygen on the 3' carbon of another.
Each nucleotide consists of a sugar (deoxyribose) bound on one side to a phosphate group and bound on the other side to a nitrogenous base. There are two classes of nitrogen bases called purines (double-ringed structures) and pyrimidines (single-ringed structures). The base pairs in DNA are adenine with thymine and cytosine with guanine. DNA has a spiral staircase-like structure. The steps are formed by the nitrogen bases of the nucleotides where adenine pairs with thymine and cytosine with guanine. Photo courtesy U.S. National Library of Medicine.
Nucleotides are organic molecules that serve as the monomers, or subunits, of nucleic acids like DNA and RNA. The building blocks of nucleic acids, nucleotides are composed of a nitrogenous base, a five-carbon sugar (ribose or deoxyribose), and at least one phosphate group. Nucleotides contain either a purine or a pyrimidine base. Ribonucleotides are nucleotides in which the sugar is ribose. Deoxyribonucleotides are nucleotides in which the sugar is deoxyribose. Nucleic acids are polymeric macromolecules made from nucleotide monomers.
The basic building block of DNA is the nucleotide. The nucleotide in DNA consists of a sugar (deoxyribose), one of four bases (cytosine (C), thymine (T), adenine (A), guanine (G)), and a phosphate. Cytosine and thymine are pyrimidine bases, while adenine and guanine are purine bases. The sugar and the base together are called a nucleos
DNA Structure. ­DNA is o­ne of the nucleic acids, information-containing molecules in the cell (ribonucleic acid, or RNA, is the other nucleic acid). DNA is found in the nucleus of every human cell. (See the sidebar at the bottom of the page for more about RNA and different types of cells). The base pairs in DNA are adenine with thymine and cytosine with guanine. DNA has a spiral staircase-like structure. The steps are formed by the nitrogen bases of the nucleotides where adenine pairs with thymine and cytosine with guanine. Photo courtesy U.S. National Library of Medicine.
DNA structure. DNA is made up of molecules called nucleotides. Each nucleotide contains a phosphate group, a sugar group and a nitrogen base. The four types of nitrogen bases are adenine (A), thymine (T), guanine (G) and cytosine (C). The order of these bases is what determines DNA's instructions, or genetic code.
The structure of nucleotide monomers. A nucleotide is made of a nucleobase (also termed a nitrogenous base), a five-carbon sugar (either ribose or 2-deoxyribose) depending on if it is DNA or RNA, and one or, depending on the definition, more than one phosphate groups. Nucleotides contain either a purine or a pyrimidine base. Ribonucleotides are nucleotides in which the sugar is ribose. Deoxyribonucleotides are nucleotides in which the sugar is deoxyribose. Nucleic acids are polymeric macromolecules made from nucleotide monomers.