A railway link from the north was established from the South Durham coal fields to the historic town. An additional link from the south, in 1835, together with a new port, resulted in further expansion, with the establishing of the new town of West Hartlepool. Hartlepool is represented in the House of Commons by one Member of Parliament. The current MP for the Hartlepool constituency is Iain Wright of the Labour Party. He was first elected in a by-election on 30 September 2004 with a much-reduced majority following an 18% swing to the Liberal Democrats.
The information includes council tax rates and how to contact the council. Hartlepool is a local government district and borough in the ceremonial county of County Durham, North East England. In 2003 it had a resident population of 90,161. Hartlepool Borough Council is located in the Civic Centre on Victoria Road. All major bus routes stop on Vicotria Road or Hartlepool’s York Road is a short stroll away. For drivers, park in the Middleton Grange Shopping Centre car parks.
West Hartlepool TDSOB (Tech) ceased playing in 2008/09 year due to a high number of players leaving. The club continued to support town and County rugby with all of the towns other clubs playing at Grayfields when their own pitches were unavailable. Hartlepool is represented in the House of Commons by one Member of Parliament. The current MP for the Hartlepool constituency is Iain Wright of the Labour Party. He was first elected in a by-election on 30 September 2004 with a much-reduced majority following an 18% swing to the Liberal Democrats.
BBC Tees visited the town's Headland as part of its search for our region's identity. The search was sparked after Stockton South MP James Wharton said the region must decide who and where it is. In the Headland, the majority of people BBC Tees met were clear where they are-County Durham. Fresh feel. The Headland is just a couple of miles outside of Hartlepool's town centre but feels like a different world. While some of the streets and estates close to the town are run down and home to some of our region's most disadvantaged families, the Headland area has a fresh, positive air about it.
Donate. This is an ancient seaport and county borough which merged with its Victorian neighbour, West Hartlepool in 1967. It was not so much a marriage but more a reconciliation, for West Hartlepool was built in the 1830's by Ralph Ward Jackson in protest of increased coal shipment charges at the senior port. Hartlepool is not without its famous sports teams, it is renowned for both Football and Rugby with all matches being well attended by loyal fans. The Town Hall Theatre presents a varied programme of plays, comedy, music and dance, and Hartlepool stages a number of seasonal events.
A port town in County Durham, Hartlepool has been successful in creating a new, rather more tourist friendly image for itself, helped in no small part by continued investment and the hosting of the prestigious 2010 Tall Ships' Races. The Hartlepool of today is almost unrecognisable compared to the town of 20 years ago, and its transformation is at its most impressive around the former South Docks, which are now home to a vibrant 500-berth marina, full of luxury yachts and surrounded by waterfront bars, restaurants and shops.
Hartlepool (/ˈhɑːtlɪpuːl/ or /ˈhaːtlpuːl/) is a town on the North Sea coast of North East England, 7.5 miles (12 km) north of Middlesbrough and 17 miles (27 km) south of Sunderland. Hartlepool is represented in the House of Commons by one Member of Parliament. The current MP for the Hartlepool constituency is Iain Wright of the Labour Party. He was first elected in a by-election on 30 September 2004 with a much-reduced majority following an 18% swing to the Liberal Democrats.
It was one of the four districts of the non-metropolitan county of Cleveland. Cleveland was abolished in 1996 after a review by the Banham Commission, with the four boroughs of Stockton-on-Tees, Hartlepool, Redcar & Cleveland and Middlesbrough becoming unitary authorities. Hartlepool was one of a small number council in the United Kingdom to have a directly-elected mayor. This followed a referendum held in the borough in October 2001, and the first mayoral election was held in May 2002.
Hartlepool is a unitary authority area in the ceremonial county of County Durham, north-east England. In 2003 it had a resident population of 90,161. Hartlepool was one of a small number council in the United Kingdom to have a directly-elected mayor. This followed a referendum held in the borough in October 2001, and the first mayoral election was held in May 2002.
'Old Hartlepool' once occupied the Headland peninsula, before the town relocated its centre to the west, and consequently the Headland area is rich in history and Christian heritage, being somewhat enhanced by the presence of the beautiful St. Hilda's Church. The Hartlepool of today is almost unrecognisable compared to the town of 20 years ago, and its transformation is at its most impressive around the former South Docks, which are now home to a vibrant 500-berth marina, full of luxury yachts and surrounded by waterfront bars, restaurants and shops.