The cost of the procedure varies from surgeon to surgeon, but generally Intacs cost slightly more than laser vision correction. The best way to determine if Intacs corneal implants are right for you is to consult a doctor who specializes in Intacs corneal implants, who can give you all the facts and evaluate your eyes. If you are considering Intacs surgery for keratoconus, your first step is to have a comprehensive eye exam by an ophthalmologist who specializes in the procedure. He or she will examine your eyes and perform a number of measurements to determine if the procedure is likely to improve your vision.
After examining your eyes, your eye doctor can tell you more about Intacs. The cost of the procedure varies from surgeon to surgeon, but generally Intacs cost slightly more than laser vision correction. If you are considering Intacs surgery for keratoconus, your first step is to have a comprehensive eye exam by an ophthalmologist who specializes in the procedure.
A literature review of 452 patients who underwent Intacs corneal ring implantation for the correction of nearsightedness was published in the October 2001 issue of Ophthalmology. Twelve months after surgery, 97 percent of treated eyes had 20/40 vision or better, and 74 percent had 20/20 or better. For keratoconus, Intacs work by flattening the steep part of the cornea or cone to reduce vision distortions. Intacs are made of the same biocompatible material found in intraocular lenses used for cataract surgery, so there is little or no risk of adverse effects from the material.
If you suffer from keratoconus, the eye surgeon can determine whether Intacs are a viable keratoconus treatment for you. Generally, the cost of Intacs corneal ring segment surgery ($1,500 to $2,500 per eye) is comparable with or a bit higher than the cost of LASIK surgery and other laser vision correction procedures. The Intacs Procedure. Like LASIK, Intacs corneal ring segment surgery is performed on an outpatient basis and requires only local anesthesia (numbing eye drops). If you desire, your eye surgeon can also give you a mild oral sedative to relax you prior to the surgery.
Results of Clinical Trials for Intacs for Keratoconus. In 58 keratoconus eyes implanted with Intacs, almost half (25) achieved 20/40 uncorrected vision or better in a study reported in the October 2005 issue of Archives of Ophthalmology. For keratoconus, Intacs work by flattening the steep part of the cornea or cone to reduce vision distortions. Intacs are made of the same biocompatible material found in intraocular lenses used for cataract surgery, so there is little or no risk of adverse effects from the material.
Cost of Intacs® for Keratoconus. Both Intacs® and corneal transplant surgery are able to treat keratoconus. The cost of Intacs® is typically around $2,000 per eye, less than the cost of a corneal transplant. Intacs® inserts are also far less invasive. An ophthalmologist will fully discuss your eye care with you in order to determine the cost of Intacs® for your keratoconus treatment. Intacs® Eye Surgery. The Intacs® eye surgery procedure usually requires only a one hour office visit. A preoperative exam will determine if a patient is able to undergo Intacs® eye surgery as a treatment for myopia or keratoconus.
Other Procedures Intacs. The progression of keratoconus leads to worsening vision, discomfort, and intolerance of contact lenses. For many keratoconus patients, Intacs corneal inserts can be a safe, minimally invasive way to slow or halt that progression. If you are considering Intacs surgery for keratoconus, your first step is to have a comprehensive eye exam by an ophthalmologist who specializes in the procedure.
Cost for keratoconus treatment can vary greatly depending on the best option for the individual patient. Since treatments range from glasses and contact lenses (several hundred dollars) to a corneal transplant (many thousands of dollars) it is difficult to suggest one cost for keratoconus treatment. 
According to the INTACS web site, the cost of INTACS ranges from $1,500 to $2,500 per eye. This includes the implants, doctor fees, after-care patient kit, and all post-operative follow-up visits. Although most vision insurance companies do not cover the costs of this procedure, financing options are usually available. People are best suited for INTACS inserts if: 1  They have in the range of -1.00 and -3.00 diopters with less than 1.00 diopter of astigmatism. 2  They have healthy eyes with no prior problems. 3  They are at least twenty-one years old and have had stable vision for at least a year.