Green Tea. Chinese green tea is the oldest and most popular type of tea; it has been enjoyed in China for several thousand years. Green tea is made from the new shoots of the tea plant, and the tea leaves are dried and processed according to the type of tea desired. The techniques of processing green tea are sub-divided into four categories: stir-fried, roasted, sun-dried, and steamed.
The practice of drinking tea has a long history in China, having originated there. Although tea originated in China, during the Tang Dynasty, Chinese tea generally represents tea leaves which have been processed using methods inherited from ancient China. Green tea is the most popular type of tea consumed in China. Within these main categories of tea are vast varieties of individual beverages. Some researchers have counted more than 700 of these beverages. Others put the number at more than 1,000.
Tea leaves are processed using traditional Chinese methods. Chinese tea is drunk throughout the day, including during meals, as a substitute for plain water, for health, or for simple pleasure. Green tea is the most popular type of tea consumed in China. Within these main categories of tea are vast varieties of individual beverages. Some researchers have counted more than 700 of these beverages. Others put the number at more than 1,000.
Report Abuse. There are many types of teas. Typically in Chinese restaurants they serve oolong teas or bonay teas (which is a black tea also known as pu-erh tea). Also, I've seen Jasmine tea or Chrysanthemum teas. If you have a favorite restaurant, you can ask them or ask them to show you the package. Dave C · 8 years ago.
There are many different types of tea; some teas, like Darjeeling and Chinese greens, have a cooling, slightly bitter, and astringent flavour, while others have vastly different profiles that include sweet, nutty, floral, or grassy notes. Tea originated in the southwest of China, used as a medicinal drink. It became a popular drink throughout China during the Tang dynasty, and tea drinking spread to other East Asian countries. Portuguese priests and merchants introduced it to the West during the 16th century. The phrase herbal tea usually refers to infusions of fruit or herbs made without the tea plant, such as steeps of rosehip, chamomile, or rooibos.
Chinese Tea. Chinese tea varies widely in tea leaf, taste, & aromas. Chinese teas include all types: green tea, black tea, white tea, oolong, & pu'erh. In China tea is deeply ingrained into the daily culture, since tea originally originated in China nearly 4000 years ago. 33 Item(s). Chinese teas include all types: green tea, black tea, white tea, oolong, & pu'erh. In China tea is deeply ingrained into the daily culture, since tea originally originated in China nearly 4000 years ago
Chinese tea is a beverage made from the leaves of tea plants (Camellia sinensis) and boiled water. Green tea is the most popular type of tea consumed in China. Within these main categories of tea are vast varieties of individual beverages. Some researchers have counted more than 700 of these beverages. Others put the number at more than 1,000.
Best Answer: try 香片 (xiang pian) which is a kind of chinese jasmine tea (green tea), or 铁观音 (tie guan yin) which is a kind of oolong tea. these are the two most common tea used in chinese restaurants due to wide acceptance by novice tea drinkers. There are many types of teas. Typically in Chinese restaurants they serve oolong teas or bonay teas (which is a black tea also known as pu-erh tea). Also, I've seen Jasmine tea or Chrysanthemum teas. If you have a favorite restaurant, you can ask them or ask them to show you the package. Dave C · 8 years ago.