1 The follicular cell layer becomes cuboidal and then columnar as the primary oocyte enlarges at puberty and a primary follicle is formed. 2  A primary follicle with more than one layer of cuboidal follicular cells is called a growing follicle. 1 All of the oogonia enlarge to form primary oocytes, of which about 2 million are present at birth. 2  No primary oocytes form after birth (in contrast to the continuous production of primary spermatocytes in the male after puberty).
Primary oocyte. Definition. noun, plural: primary oocytes. The oocyte that arises from the oogonium via the process of oocytogenesis, and gives rise to secondary oocyte and polar body after first meiotic division (meiosis I). Supplement. In humans, the primary oocytes are produced by the process of oocytogenesis that occurs during embryonic stage. At that time each oogonium inside the ovaries of the fetus divides and enters the initial stage of meiosis I to become the primary oocyte.
1 Oogenesis (oocyte maturation). 2  PRENATAL MATURATION: the ova are formed in the ovary from cells called oogonia which proliferate by mitotic division. 3  All of the oogonia enlarge to form primary oocytes, of which about 2 million are present at birth. 1 All of the oogonia enlarge to form primary oocytes, of which about 2 million are present at birth. 2  No primary oocytes form after birth (in contrast to the continuous production of primary spermatocytes in the male after puberty).
An oocyte is produced in the ovary during female gametogenesis. The female germ cells produce a primordial germ cell (PGC), which then undergoes mitosis, forming oogonia. During oogenesis, the oogonia become primary oocytes. During the primary oocyte stage of oogenesis, the nucleus is called a germinal vesicle. The only normal human type of secondary oocyte has the 23rd (sex) chromosome as 23,X (female-determining), whereas sperm can have 23,X (female-determining) or 23,Y (male-determining).
Oogenesis, ovogenesis, or ooegenesis /oögenesis.ˌoʊ/ əˈdʒɛnɨsɪs is the creation of an (ovum egg). Cell it is the female form of; gametogenesis the male equivalent is. Spermatogenesis it involves the development of the various stages of the immature. ovum The succeeding phase of ootidogenesis occurs when the primary oocyte develops into an ootid. This is achieved by the process of meiosis. In fact, a primary oocyte is, by its biological definition, a cell whose primary function is to divide
1 The primary oocyte and its follicular cells constitute the primordial follicle. 2  The follicular cell layer becomes cuboidal and then columnar as the primary oocyte enlarges at puberty and a primary follicle is formed. 3  A primary follicle with more than one layer of cuboidal follicular cells is called a growing follicle. 1 All of the oogonia enlarge to form primary oocytes, of which about 2 million are present at birth. 2  No primary oocytes form after birth (in contrast to the continuous production of primary spermatocytes in the male after puberty).
The formation of an oocyte is called oocytogenesis, which is a part of oogenesis. Oogenesis results in the formation of both primary oocytes before birth, and of secondary oocytes after it as part of ovulation. During the primary oocyte stage of oogenesis, the nucleus is called a germinal vesicle. The only normal human type of secondary oocyte has the 23rd (sex) chromosome as 23,X (female-determining), whereas sperm can have 23,X (female-determining) or 23,Y (male-determining).
Ad. In the first stage of oogenesis, the oogonium undergoes oocytogenesis, creating the primary oocyte through mitosis. Like the oogonium, the primary oocyte is a diploid cell, containing two complete sets of chromosomes. Sex cells are haploid cells, containing only half the amount of chromosomes in a diploid cell. Haploid cells are formed from diploid cells by meiosis. Through ootidogenesis, a form of meiosis, the primary oocyte produces the haploid secondary oocyte. The process of ootidogenesis is halted halfway through, which is called dictyate, until ovulation, when it is completed to produce the released egg or ootid. 
An oocyte (UK /ˈoʊəsʌɪt/ , US /ˈoʊ.oʊ.saɪt/), ooecyte, oöcyte, ovocyte or rarely, ocyte is a female gametocyte or germ cell involved in. Reproduction in other, words it is an immature, ovum or egg. Cell an oocyte is produced in the ovary during female. gametogenesis During the primary oocyte stage of oogenesis, the nucleus is called a germinal vesicle. The only normal human type of secondary oocyte has the 23rd (sex) chromosome as 23,X (female-determining), whereas sperm can have 23,X (female-determining) or 23,Y (male-determining).