In Android, Dropbox doesn't automatically sync all of the files in its appointed folder as it does in Windows. But you can download files from the Dropbox app to your phone or tablet's local storage. And you can upload files to Dropbox via an Upload here option on the app's pull-down menu. Dropbox also provides an automatic way to send your photos to your PC. You can set this up in the Android Dropbox app: 1  Tap the menu icon in the upper-right corner. 2  Tap Settings. 3  Tap Turn on Camera Upload. 4  In order to avoid hitting your mobile data cap, you'll probably want to leave the Wi-Fi only option on.
1 Connect your device to your computer using a USB cable. 2  If you’re asked to select a USB connection on your device, choose Media device (MTP). 3  Use the Android File Transfer window that pops up on your computer to drag and drop files. 4  Disconnect the USB cable when you’re finished. 1 Open Android File Transfer. ( 2 The next time you connect your device, it should open automatically.). 3  Make sure your device’s screen is unlocked. 4  Connect your device to your computer using a USB cable. 5  If you’re asked to select a USB connection on your device, choose Media device (MTP).
Step five: If you’re transferring from Android to Windows, tap the icon for your PC in the app, then select either the file browser option to navigate to your chosen documents, or the gallery option to quickly select multiple photos. Transfer files between PC and Android: Wi-Fi network. The best way to transfer files between your PC and Android is to send them over a shared wireless network. There are many apps you can use for this, but our favourite is Filedrop.
Cloud storage services such as Dropbox, Google Drive, and SkyDrive all support Android. You can send files, via each service's Android app, from the cloud to your device or from your device to the cloud. And everything you have stored in the cloud with one of these services automatically gets on your PC. Dropbox also provides an automatic way to send your photos to your PC. You can set this up in the Android Dropbox app: 1  Tap the menu icon in the upper-right corner. 2  Tap Settings. 3  Tap Turn on Camera Upload. 4  In order to avoid hitting your mobile data cap, you'll probably want to leave the Wi-Fi only option on.
If you need to send large files from your Android device to other smartphones, tablets, PCs and Macs connected to the same network via WiFi, then File Transfer is a handy tool. File Transfer is easy enough for anyone to use-no configuration is needed and it doesn't use the Coud or Bluetooth. 
How to sync or transfer files easily from your Android phones to your PC or Mac computers, and I show you three ways to do the same. Android sync manager wifi https://play.google.com/store/apps/de... Airdroid https://play.google.com/store/apps/de... 
You can transfer photos, music, and other files between your computer and device using a USB cable. You can also transfer files from your device to a computer. 1  Make sure your device’s screen is unlocked. 2  Connect your device to your computer using a USB cable. 1 Open Android File Transfer. ( 2 The next time you connect your device, it should open automatically.). 3  Make sure your device’s screen is unlocked. 4  Connect your device to your computer using a USB cable. 5  If you’re asked to select a USB connection on your device, choose Media device (MTP).
1 Make sure your device’s screen is unlocked. 2  Connect your device to your computer using a USB cable. 3  If you’re asked to select a USB connection on your device, choose Media device (MTP). 4  Use the Android File Transfer window that pops up on your computer to drag and drop files. 1 Open Android File Transfer. ( 2 The next time you connect your device, it should open automatically.). 3  Make sure your device’s screen is unlocked. 4  Connect your device to your computer using a USB cable. 5  If you’re asked to select a USB connection on your device, choose Media device (MTP).
1 Connect your device to your computer using a USB cable. 2  If you’re asked to select a USB connection on your device, choose Media device (MTP). 3  Use the File Transfer window that pops up on your computer to drag and drop files, just like other external devices. 4  Eject your device from Windows, then unplug the USB cable. 1 Open Android File Transfer. ( 2 The next time you connect your device, it should open automatically.). 3  Make sure your device’s screen is unlocked. 4  Connect your device to your computer using a USB cable. 5  If you’re asked to select a USB connection on your device, choose Media device (MTP).