The human norovirus is the most common cause of gastroenteritis, or “the stomach flu.” It causes vomiting and diarrhea in both children and adults and is responsible for 19 to 21 million cases of gastroenteritis in the U.S. alone every year, Medical News Today reported. A new study has shown that dogs may be capable of becoming infected with the human norovirus — better known as the common
Your dog could be to blame. Norovirus, the leading cause of gastroenteritis, or stomach flu, affects 23 million people in the U.S. each year, and studies show that we can contract the virus from man’s best friend. Until last year, it was thought that animals didn’t carry human norovirus because of species barriers. But a study at the University of Helsinki in Finland found that dogs do carry human strains of the virus and can pass them to humans. Researchers took 92 fecal samples from dogs living in homes where either people or their pooch had recently experienced symptoms of stomach flu such as vomiting or diarrhea
The finding raises the possibility of human-to-dog transmission of the virus, and may add the norovirus to the list of known zoonotic illnesses, or diseases transmitted from animals to humans. Dog owners and veterinarians are familiar with the idea of humans and dogs passing along a stomach virus. A new study has shown that dogs may be capable of becoming infected with the human norovirus — better known as the common stomach flu.
Norovirus is a leading cause of gastroenteritis, or stomach flu , causing vomiting and diarrhea in both adults and children. It is very contagious and can infect anyone. You can catch it from an infected person, contaminated food or water, or from contaminated surfaces. We also confirmed that human norovirus can bind to the cells of the canine gut, which is the first step required for infection of cells.. Together with evidence that human norovirus has been isolated from domestic dogs in Europe, the findings raise concerns that people could catch the bug from animals.
Gastroenteritis is a medical term referring to inflammation of the gastrointestinal tract, usually the stomach and intestines. It can be caused by infection with bacteria, viruses, parasites, or reactions to medications or new foods. 
Salmonellosis in Dogs. Salmonellosis is an infection found in dogs caused by the Salmonella bacteria. It often leads to disorders, including gastroenteritis, spontaneous abortions, and septicemia. This bacterial disease is also zoonotic, meaning it can be transmitted to humans. Salmonellosis affects both dogs cats. 
· just now. Report Abuse. Dogs can pass around stomach viruses just like humans can, but they can not pass the SAME viruses as humans. Your dog can not get sick with your stomach flu, or vice versa. It is very rare for a virus to jump from one species to another. 
Virus. Norovirus is a major cause for diarrhea-induced gastroenteritis. The virus is mainly found in dog feces but can also inhabit food, water, surface areas, vomit and saliva. Dogs are most likely to catch this virus from young children. Sick dogs can give some illnesses to humans. Thinkstock/Comstock/Getty Images. If your dog is experiencing diarrhea or vomiting, it's best to take precautions such as washing your hands frequently. Some viruses and bacteria can transmit from dog feces to humans, causing a stomach bug. If a family member goes to the doctor with gastroenteritis symptoms, be sure to inform your doctor if your dog is also sick. Infants, young children and the immunocompromised are at the highest risk for dog to human infections
With the concern about the current canine flu hitting epidemic levels, owners may have found some comfort in the news that this particular strain of flu is unable to affect humans. A study from the American Society for Microbiology says there’s a chance dogs and humans can give each other the stomach bug. 