A disconformity is an unconformity between parallel layers of sedimentary rocks which represents a period of erosion or non-deposition. Disconformities are marked by features of subaerial erosion. This type of erosion can leave channels and paleosols in the rock record.
An unconformity is a widespread surface separating rocks above and below, which represents a gap in the rock record. Unconformities occur when either erosion wears away rocks, or rock deposits never form. Therefore, a time gap exists between when the rocks below the unconformity formed and when those above it formed.
An unconformity is a buried erosional or non-depositional surface separating two rock masses or strata of different ages, indicating that sediment deposition was not continuous.
unconformity. (geology). The relation between adjacent rock strata whose time of deposition was separated by a period of nondeposition or of erosion; a break in a stratigraphic sequence.
For geologists, one of the most famous angular unconformity is the Grand Unconformity in the Grand Canyon of Arizona. Here tilted sedimentary rocks of Precambrian age (lower half of photo) are overlain by younger sedimentary rocks of Phanerozoic age (Cambrian and younger, upper half of photo).
Definition of UNCONFORMITY. 1. archaic: lack of conformity. 2. a: lack of continuity in deposition between rock strata in contact corresponding to a period of nondeposition, weathering, or erosion b: the surface of contact between unconformable strata.
An unconformity is the contact between sedimentary rocks that are significantly different in age, or between sedimentary rocks and older, eroded igneous or metamorphic rocks. Unconformities represent gaps in the geologic record; periods of time that are not represented by any rocks.
Unconformity is the general term for missing pages of Earth history. There are three types of unconformities (below): angular unconformity, nonconformity, and disconformity. An angular unconformity (left) is an erosional surface separating steeply dipping rock layers below from gently dipping layers above.