Canary Life Expectancy. While the average life expectancy of a domestic canary is between 9 and 10 years, individual birds might live up to 15 years. In the wild, canaries might live even longer, if they escape predators and have a good food supply. To ensure your canary lives as long as possible, feed him a high-quality commercial canary seed and make sure your pet always has fresh, clean water available. Canaries benefit from eating small but regular amounts of fresh greens that haven't been treated with pesticides. Keep his cage clean and out of drafty areas.
Yellow is the classic canary shade, but these small members of the finch family are available in a wide variety of hues. With good care, your canary can share your life for quite awhile. While the average life expectancy of a domestic canary is between 9 and 10 years, individual birds might live up to 15 years. In the wild, canaries might live even longer, if they escape predators and have a good food supply. To ensure your canary lives as long as possible, feed him a high-quality commercial canary seed and make sure your pet always has fresh, clean water available. Canaries benefit from eating small but regular amounts of fresh greens that haven't been treated with pesticides. Keep his cage clean and out of drafty areas.
How long do canaries live? I have had a little yellow canary for bout 6 years now, but hes starting to loose his appetite, hes not eating much and im getting worried.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Canaries in captivity live approximately 15 years if cared for properly. They must have a varied diet in order to live the longest life. Males typically live 10 years and have a slightly shorter lifespan than females. 
Male and Female Lifespan. The lifespans of the average male and female canaries aren't the same. Male canaries, the sex that sings, tend to live longer. Female canaries that aren't bred might live as long as males, but breeding takes a lot out of the captive bird. A female used for regular breeding might only live about 6 years, although the lifespans of individual birds vary greatly. Care. Give your canary the best chance at a long life with proper care and feeding. House your canary in the largest cage possible, so that he has room for flight within the space. The minimum acceptable cage size is 17 inches long and 10 inches high.
1 Canaries can live up to 10 years. 2  Males canaries sing better than females, although the canary may not sing as much during a molt. 3  They do not require a great deal of attention and are suitable for beginning pet bird owners. 4  Canaries are not social birds so will a single pet canary will be happy. 1 The wild canary is greenish yellow over most of their body with yellow underparts. 2  The domestic canary comes in an array of bright colors including orange, red, and yellow. 3  Canaries can live up to 10 years. 4  Males canaries sing better than females, although the canary may not sing as much during a molt
Report Abuse. Canaries usually live 8 to 10 years, but have been known to live as long as 15 years. A factor in assisting your canary live longer healthier life can be obtained by the proper nutrition. They are social birds that enjoy the company of other birds, especially other canaries. Best Answer: My Grandmother had one that lived for 15 years. My oldest one is about 6-7 years. I recently read that if you cage 3 or more canaries together, consider that one is dying from the start. Canaries are not flocking bird
The average life span of a bred female canary is 5 - 6 years and for a male canary, up to 10 years, though there have been canaries that have lived up to 20 years. Types of Canaries: There are basically three selectively bred canary types available today. 