IAI. The Certified Forensic Interview (CFI) program was created by the International Association of Interviewers (IAI) to raise the level of professionalism of every individual and organization involved in the interviewing field. 
Pass a background check. As with other legal professions, forensic interviewers must pass a criminal background check, required by employers and organizations offering certification in forensic interviewing. 1 While a doctorate isn't a requirement for forensic interviewing, some agencies enlist licensed psychiatrists or psychologists to conduct follow-up interviews after the initial stages of an investigation.
Get Additional Knowledge. Many organizations offer specialized training programs to help strengthen the skills of forensic interviewers. For example, the National Children's Advocacy Center offers a five-day course to help interviewers deal with children who allege physical or sexual abuse. Get Certified. Although it's not a requirement, completing the IAI's certification program can boost your career by establishing you as an expert. Applicants with a bachelor's degree or high school diploma need two to three years of investigative experience, which rises to four years for those who only have a GED.
A bachelor's degree is the minimum credential for becoming a forensic interviewer. For that reason, you should plan to take classes in criminal justice, sociology and psychology, with a goal of getting a degree in one of those fields. Get Certified. Although it's not a requirement, completing the IAI's certification program can boost your career by establishing you as an expert. Applicants with a bachelor's degree or high school diploma need two to three years of investigative experience, which rises to four years for those who only have a GED.
Study criminal justice, sociology or psychology. Forensic interviewers need a strong background in human behavior and psychology, in addition to an in-depth understanding of criminal investigation and legal procedures. 1 While a doctorate isn't a requirement for forensic interviewing, some agencies enlist licensed psychiatrists or psychologists to conduct follow-up interviews after the initial stages of an investigation.
The NCAC Child Forensic Interview Structure is a flexible structure that can be adapted to children of different ages and cultural backgrounds, and is appropriate for interviewing children who may have experienced sexual or physical abuse or who may be a witness to violence against another person. • Professionals desiring to learn the current NCAC Child Forensic Interview Structure. The NCAC has trained thousands of professionals from all 50 states and 12 foreign countries, as well as personnel from the Navy, the Marine Corps, the Air Force, and non-governmental organizations.
CFI—Certified to be the Elite. A Certified Forensic Interviewer (CFI) is documented to be at the top of the field. You can become part of this exclusive fraternity through the resources of the IAI. A CFI is a professional with the expertise to conduct a variety of investigative interviews with victims, witnesses, suspects or other sources to determine the facts regarding suspicions, allegations or specific incidents in either public or private sector settings.
Attend a forensic interviewer training program, such as those offered by child advocacy organizations or law enforcement agencies. The Federal Bureau of Investigation, for example, offers short-term training programs that teach participants what to ask and how to interview victims in a way that does not traumatize them. 1 While a doctorate isn't a requirement for forensic interviewing, some agencies enlist licensed psychiatrists or psychologists to conduct follow-up interviews after the initial stages of an investigation.
The training includes audience discussion, child interview practicum, review of recorded forensic interviews, experiential skill-building exercises, and participation in a mock court simulation. • Professionals desiring to learn the current NCAC Child Forensic Interview Structure. The NCAC has trained thousands of professionals from all 50 states and 12 foreign countries, as well as personnel from the Navy, the Marine Corps, the Air Force, and non-governmental organizations.