$5.82. Get an INSTANT estimate of the cost to Install Wallpaper! Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Wallpaper Installation project. For a basic 120 square feet project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install Wallpaper ranges between $2.76 - $5.82 per square foot* . To estimate costs for your project: 1.
if you need to have old wallpaper removed before installing new paper, that will add to the cost of your installation. And how difficult it is to remove the old paper will affect how much that portion of the installation will cost. If you are worried about this part of the cost, ask your pro to give you a quote on the removal of the old paper before you begin.
If Your Budget is busting with vinyl prices at $14 - $18 per yard, then We can Help ! How are we different from the herd of vinyl peddlers? Service is our most important product, quality Vinyl & Price range of $9.50 - $11.50 per linear yard make us an economical resource site to review for your projects. Most of our Vinyl is Quick Ship product, stock subject to hourly order changes. We do not attempt to offer all ranges of vinyl textures, designs or colors. Our Vinyl wall covering products ship FOB from either the East or Midwest US. email us: sales@wiusa.com Call us: 800.527.9014 Vinyl Library Curvwall Select Sample Boxes: Most of our Vinyl will be 20 oz. Type II 20 oz. Vinyl Price range $9.50 to $11.50 lin yd.
Vinyl (PVC) fencing is a popular option, and this guide will explain its benefits and the types of vinyl fencing that can be selected. When determining the cost to install a vinyl fence, the first thing to consider is the price of materials. The cost of supplies usually falls between $20 per linear foot for a picket fence to $40 per linear foot for a privacy fence. Labor may cost an additional $35-$50 per hour. 
The cost of wallpapers and wallpaper hangers will vary, but here are a few things that will affect the cost of your wallpaper installation. There are many types of wallpaper-vinyl coated, coated fabric, paper or solid sheet backed vinyl and fabric backed vinyl. And how difficult it is to remove the old paper will affect how much that portion of the installation will cost. If you are worried about this part of the cost, ask your pro to give you a quote on the removal of the old paper before you begin.
Get an INSTANT estimate of the cost to Install a Vinyl Fence! Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Vinyl Fence Installation project. For a basic 25 linear feet project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install a Vinyl Fence ranges between $25.00 - $33.12 per linear foot. 
Cost. According to data from RS Means (Building Construction Cost Data, 57th Annual Edition, 1999), the total cost of materials, equipment and labor for installation of a lightweight (Type I) fabric-backed vinyl wallcovering is $1.04 per square foot.
Average Price Range. The average cost of linoleum and vinyl flooring is $2-$2.50 per square foot. Like most flooring, vinyl and linoleum is produced at different quality levels. The thicker the material and the better the finish, the more it will cost. The best way to understand the differences in the quality is to shop around. Linoleum and Vinyl Flooring Price Guide. Linoleum and vinyl flooring can be quite affordable to install yourself or have a pro install for you. It is a cost-effective flooring material when you need something for 5-20 years that won’t require a lot of maintenance. It’s popular where low price is a high priority.
1 Good, basic wallpaper sells for an average of $25-$50 a single roll, depending on material and style. 2  Papering a typical 16-by-20-foot room requires 16 to 20 rolls, at a cost of $400-$1,000. Wallpaper enhances a room's decor with textures, colors and patterns that would be nearly impossible to create with paint, and the images can range from a simple repeated pattern to a complex mural or a blend of patterns and borders. Wallpaper installation can last 15 to 25 years or more. Typical costs: