verb. 1 Add (something) at the beginning as a prefix or introduction: a preface is prefixed to the book. More example sentences. 1  Similar advertisements are prefixed to plays by David Garrick, Isaac Bickerstaffe, Hannah More, Elizabeth Griffith, Elizabeth Inchbald, Frederick Reynolds, and many others. 1 A word, letter, or number placed before another: the Institute was granted the prefix ‘Royal’ in 1961. More example sentences. 1  Originally christened, with admirable simplicity, the Station Hotel, the royal prefix was added after Queen Victoria blessed the building with her presence.
Meta (from the Greek preposition and prefix meta- (μετά-) meaning after, or beyond) is a prefix used in English to indicate a concept which is an abstraction from another concept, used to complete or add to the latter. Contents. 
de-prefix. › used to ​add the ​meaning ​opposite, ​remove, or ​reduce to a ​noun or ​verb: ​deforestation the denationalization of the ​coal ​industry Once you've written a ​computer ​program, you have to ​debug (= ​remove the ​errors from) it. 
TheRE and Back Again. Today we will focus on the prefix re- , which can mean “back” or “again.” Prefixes are morphemes which begin words, attaching to a word’s main part, the “root” or “stem.” For instance, in the word re turn, re-is the prefix, and “turn” is the root or stem. 
de-. 1. Away from, cessation, without; sometimes has an intensive force. 2. For names with this prefix not found here, see under the principal part of the name. de-, prefix meaning to do the opposite, away, off, to remove entirely, down or from: decapitation, decartation, dedentition. Prefix meaning away from, cessation, without; sometimes has an intensive forc
Prefixes. A prefix is placed at the beginning of a word to modify or change its meaning. This is a list of the most common prefixes in English, together with their basic meaning and some examples. You can find more detail or precision for each prefix in any good dictionary. A prefix goes at the beginning of a word.
About Biology Prefixes. Biology Prefixes is a prefix dictionary, a subsection of Suffix Prefix Dictionary, the most comprehensive online dictionary of biological and medical suffixes and prefixes. 
de-. prefix forming verbs and verbal derivatives. 1. removal of or from something specified: deforest; dethrone. 2. reversal of something: decode; decompose; desegregate. 3. departure from: decamp. de-. a prefix, occurring orig. in loanwords from Latin, used to form verbs that denote motion or conveyance down from, away, or off (deflect; descend); reversal or undoing of the effects of an action (deflate); extraction or removal of a thing (decaffeinate); thoroughness or completeness of an action (despoil).