Tamsulosin is used to treat men who have symptoms of an enlarged prostate gland, which is also known as benign enlargement of the prostate (benign prostatic hyperplasia or BPH). Benign enlargement of the prostate is a problem that can occur in men as they get older. The prostate gland is located below the bladder. 
Tamsulosin is used by men to treat the symptoms of an enlarged prostate (benign prostatic hyperplasia-BPH). It does not shrink the prostate, but it works by relaxing the muscles in the prostate and the bladder. Tamsulosin belongs to a class of drugs known as alpha blockers. Do not use this medication to treat high blood pressure. OTHER USES: This section contains uses of this drug that are not listed in the approved professional labeling for the drug but that may be prescribed by your health care professional.
Flomax (tamsulosin hydrochloride) is an alpha-blocker used to treat the symptoms of a prostate gland condition called BPH (benign prostatic hyperplasia). Flomax is available as a generic drug, and dosing should be taken by mouth, usually once daily. Less serious side effects of Flomax include: dizziness, weakness, drowsiness, headache, nausea, diarrhea, blurred vision, dental problems, sleep problems (insomnia), abnormal ejaculation, decreased sex drive, runny or stuffy nose, sore throat, or cough.
Uses of This Medicine. Tamsulosin is used to treat men who have symptoms of an enlarged prostate gland, which is also known as benign enlargement of the prostate (benign prostatic hyperplasia or BPH). Benign enlargement of the prostate is a problem that can occur in men as they get older. The prostate gland is located below the bladder
Dutasteride is used alone or with another medication (tamsulosin [ Flomax ]) to treat benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH; enlargement of the prostate gland). ... If you experience a serious side effect, you or your doctor may send a report to the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA ... 
Tamsulosin is used to treat men who have symptoms of an enlarged prostate gland, which is also known as benign enlargement of the prostate (benign prostatic hyperplasia or BPH). Benign enlargement of the prostate is a problem that can occur in men as they get older. The prostate gland is located below the bladder. TAMSULOSIN is used to treat enlargement of the prostate gland in men, a condition called benign prostatic hyperplasia or BPH. It is not for use in women. It works by relaxing muscles in the prostate and bladder neck.
Tamsulosin is used by men to treat the symptoms of an enlarged prostate (benign prostatic hyperplasia-BPH). It does not shrink the prostate, but it works by relaxing the muscles in the prostate and the bladder. Tamsulosin belongs to a class of drugs known as alpha blockers. Do not use this medication to treat high blood pressure. OTHER USES: This section contains uses of this drug that are not listed in the approved professional labeling for the drug but that may be prescribed by your health care professional.
Flomax. TAMSULOSIN is used to treat enlargement of the prostate gland in men, a condition called benign prostatic hyperplasia or BPH. It is not for use in women. It works by relaxing muscles in the prostate and bladder neck. This improves urine flow and reduces BPH symptoms
Although commonly thought of as a medication used to treat enlarged prostate, tamsulosin can also be prescribed for women who have problems with bladder blockages or obstruction to help them urinate more easily. Doctors may also prescribe tamsulosin to help the body clear or pass kidney stones. Tamsulosin (Flomax) Dosage. For enlarged prostate or benign prostatic hypertrophy (BPH): Tamsulosin is usually taken once a day in a dose of 0.4 milligrams (mg), 30 minutes after eating. For best results, try to take tamsulosin at the same time each day.
Dutasteride is used alone or with another medication (tamsulosin [ Flomax ]) to treat benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH ... Your doctor may need to change the doses of your medications or monitor you ... Call your doctor if you have any unusual problems while taking this medication. ... Tamsulosin (Flomax), alfuzosin (Uroxatral), and silodosin (Rapaflo), types of alpha-adrenergic blocker, are specifically targeted at the bladder and prostate. ... For instance, Jalyn is a medication that contains both tamsulosin and dutasteride, a 5-alpha reductase inhibitor. ...