City of Seattle Section A 2014 Salary Schedule and Compensation Plan Page 13 of 14 FLSA STATUS CODES This section gives a brief description of the codes used in the Salary Schedule which pertain to the Federal Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA). City of Seattle Section A 2014 Salary Schedule and Compensation Plan Page 3 of 14 COMPENSATION PLAN ADMINISTRATION Compensation policy is established by a variety of ordinances, personnel rules and regulations.
This chart describes the expected percentage of people who perform the job of Marketing Manager in Seattle, WA that make less than that salary. For example 50% of the people who perform the job of Marketing Manager in Seattle are expected to make less than the median. Source: HR Reported data as of June 2015. Requires a bachelor's degree with at least 7 years of experience in the field. Familiar with a variety of the field's concepts, practices, and procedures. Relies on experience and judgment to plan and accomplish goals. Performs a variety of tasks.
Seattle, WA Salary. Seattle, WA average salary is $78,852, median salary is $75,000 with a salary range from $18,170 to $1,644,000. Seattle, WA salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position. Seattle, WA salary statistics is not exclusive and is for reference only. 
Our team of Certified Compensation Professionals has analyzed survey data collected from thousands of HR departments at employers of all sizes and industries on Marketing Director salaries to construct a range which describes the distribution of salaries for people with the job title Marketing Director in Seattle, WA. Requires a bachelor's degree with at least 10 years of experience in the field. Familiar with a variety of the field's concepts, practices, and procedures. Relies on extensive experience and judgment to plan and accomplish goals.
This chart describes the expected percentage of people who perform the job of Marketing Director in Seattle, WA that make less than that salary. For example 50% of the people who perform the job of Marketing Director in Seattle are expected to make less than the median. Source: HR Reported data as of August 2015. Requires a bachelor's degree with at least 10 years of experience in the field. Familiar with a variety of the field's concepts, practices, and procedures. Relies on extensive experience and judgment to plan and accomplish goals.
The salary for someone with the job title Marketing Director in Seattle, WA varies depending on a number of factors. Requires a bachelor's degree with at least 10 years of experience in the field. Familiar with a variety of the field's concepts, practices, and procedures. Relies on extensive experience and judgment to plan and accomplish goals.
Our team of Certified Compensation Professionals has analyzed survey data collected from thousands of HR departments at employers of all sizes and industries on Marketing Manager salaries to construct a range which describes the distribution of salaries for people with the job title Marketing Manager in Seattle, WA. Requires a bachelor's degree with at least 7 years of experience in the field. Familiar with a variety of the field's concepts, practices, and procedures. Relies on experience and judgment to plan and accomplish goals. Performs a variety of tasks.
City of Seattle Section A 2014 Salary Schedule and Compensation Plan Page 7 of 14 ABBREVIATIONS USED IN SECTION C Note: The items listed below represent the most commonly used of the least obvious abbreviations used in the Salary Schedule. Every attempt is made to use abbreviations consistently. City of Seattle Section A 2014 Salary Schedule and Compensation Plan Page 3 of 14 COMPENSATION PLAN ADMINISTRATION Compensation policy is established by a variety of ordinances, personnel rules and regulations.
$71,000. Average Marketing Manager salaries for job postings in Seattle, WA are 8% higher than average Marketing Manager salaries for job postings nationwide.