It is no secret that much of the scenic allure of the Shenandoah Valley has to do with how its landscape and environment changes are so dramatically visual from season to season – but most so whenever Autumn arrives. Autumn in Virginia’s Shenandoah Valley! Virginia's scenic Shenandoah Valley is a great place to visit during any season, but Autumn is extra special. World renown mountaintop vistas, countless Valley backroads with a myriad of visual experices.
The Shenandoah Valley, directly northeast of Plymouth, is primarily located in Amador County with the northern portion of the AVA extending into El Dorado County. 
The valley is bounded to the east by the Blue Ridge Mountains, to the west by the eastern front of the Ridge-and-Valley Appalachians (excluding Massanutten Mountain), to the north by the Potomac River and to the south by the James River. The Shenandoah Valley was known as the breadbasket of the Confederacy during the Civil War and was seen as a back door for Confederate raids on Maryland, Washington, and Pennsylvania. Because of its strategic importance it was the scene of three major campaigns.
Named for the river that stretches much of its length, the Shenandoah Valley encompasses nine counties in Virginia and two counties in West Virginia. 1  Frederick County, Virginia. 2  Clarke County, Virginia. 3  Warren County, Virginia. 4  Shenandoah County, Virginia. 5  Page County, Virginia. The Shenandoah Valley was known as the breadbasket of the Confederacy during the Civil War and was seen as a back door for Confederate raids on Maryland, Washington, and Pennsylvania. Because of its strategic importance it was the scene of three major campaigns.
The Big Valley. The Shenandoah Valley stretches 200 miles across the Blue Ridge and Allegheny mountains. It's been nicknamed The Big Valley and immortalized in song, dance, film and television. The Roanoke Valley is conveniently located off Interstate 81 and the Blue Ridge Parkway at the southern tip of the Shenandoah
Shenandoah Valley. The Shenandoah Valley is located in the western part of Virginia and the eastern panhandle of West Virginia, between the Blue Ridge and Allegheny Mountains. The region is best known for its natural beauty and Civil War history. Understand [edit]. The Shenandoah Valley is formed by two mountain ranges, the Blue Ridge on the east and the Appalachian on the west. Another mountain ridge, the Massanutten, runs down the middle, as does the Shenandoah River. The Shenandoah Valley is believed to have been named by a lost Native American tribe.
Some of the ridges found in this region are the Massanutten Mountain, Shenandoah Mountain, Brushy Mountain, Walker Mountain, and Clinch Mountain. The Valley and Ridge Region is west of the Blue Ridge Mountains. It consists of an area of flatter land called the Valley of Virginia, or the Great Valley, and a line of mountains known as the Allegheny Mountains. This line of mountains is also part of the Appalachian Mountain range. The Great Valley is made up of several valleys. The largest of these valleys is the beautiful Shenandoah Valley, located in the northern section of the Great Valley. No one really knows exactly how the Shenandoah Valley got its name or what it means. Its most popular meaning is daughter of the stars.
Shenandoah is a borough in Schuylkill County, Pennsylvania, United States, located in the anthracite-mining region approximately 100 miles (160 km) northwest of Philadelphia. 
Kids Trail. Hi, my name is 'Bucket', I am your guide to having a good time in the Shenandoah Valley of Virginia and West Virginia. The Shenandoah Valley is located between two mountain ridges -- the Blue Ridge and the Allegheny. It is full of FUN activities and events just for you and your sisters, brothers, or friends. Make a bucket list of what you want to experience before you grow up. Can't wait to meet you!