History [edit]. Historically chimeneas, also spelled chimineas, have been made out of fired clay and used for heating and cooking. These traditional designs can be traced to Spain and its influence on Mexico. The first use of a traditionally designed chiminea appears around 400 years ago. A chimenea /tʃɪmɨˈneɪ.ə/ , also spelled chiminea, is a freestanding front-loading fireplace or oven with a bulbous body and usually a vertical smoke vent or chimney.
Do not store your chiminea on its stand. Other Chiminea uses Although Chimineas are primarily designed for small, outdoor fires many people are using them as decorative accent pieces in their homes or gardens. Indoors We have seen chimineas used for everything from a towel holder to housing for pets. Introduction Its been a couple of years now since Chimineas (clay outdoor fireplaces) made their way into the hearth and Leisure marketplace. At first you may have noticed them in an occasional hearth store. Next they spread to the local garden center.
A chiminea will keep the smoke out of your eyes. There are 2 basic designs of outdoor fireplaces, Chimineas and Fire Pits. A chiminea can be defined as a single mouth opening fireplace that has a chimney to efficiently fuel the fire with fresh air. The design of a good chiminea creates a drafting action, drawing fresh air into the fire directing smoke/fumes upward away from you and your guests. The fire burns hotter and cleaner, leaving behind only a small amount of ash. Chimineas also enclose a fire, protecting people and property. Blue Rooster Company chimineas are easy to light, efficient, and clean burning outdoor fireplaces. Fire pits and 360 degree open fireplaces are like a raised ring of rocks.
Clay Chimineas. With the natural beauty and aesthetic of a Clay Chiminea, you and your family can stay snug and warm in your garden even during the colder months of the year. Perfect for dinners, parties and other social events, a clay chiminea will bring any group together. Some clay chimineas also double as a mini barbecue. Your favourite grilled meals aren’t just a summer affair, with a clay chiminea you can enjoy freshly cooked hamburgers and hotdogs anytime
A fire pit is an open burning bowl, whereas a chiminea is built with a chimney. The outdoor fireplace products on the market that have mesh wrap-arounds, multi openings or bowl designs should be considered fire pits. There are many fire pits incorrectly advertised as chimineas, but they are not chimineas. A chiminea will have a flue or chimney that drafts properly much like an indoor fireplace. The drafting on a chiminea naturally brings fresh air into the fire and directs smoke up, away from guests. With proper use and maintenance our cast iron and cast aluminum chimineas will last for many years. We believe there are too many products on the market today that are designed for a throw-away society. Mass marketed chiminea designs and fire pits do not have the durability or longevity of a Blue Rooster chiminea.
Outdoor Fireplaces & Chimineas. Outdoor Chiminea: With patio furnishings being one of the most diverse areas to work with in your outdoor d cor and garden areas, chimineas have become a great way to add the style and warmth of a fire place to your relaxing retreat. 
We have seen chimineas used for everything from a towel holder to housing for pets. Homeowners who are going for a southwest theme have been purchasing chimineas as oversized planters and candle holders. A large Chiminea in the corner with a big, three-wicked candle makes for a great conversation piece. Be sure and find a level, immovable surface for which to set your Chiminea. Be sure there is nothing above your chiminea i.e. Branches, awnings, umbrellas or anything else that could potentially catch on fire. Remember do not put your Chiminea in a gazebo or enclosed porch.
No matter how good a clay fireplace is built, if you put a piece of a clay chiminea in a bucket of water, in a few days you will have mud. The bottom line is that clay chimineas are just large clay pots made of burnt dirt and clay pots should be used for flowers, not fire. The fire burns hotter and cleaner, leaving behind only a small amount of ash. Chimineas also enclose a fire, protecting people and property. Blue Rooster Company chimineas are easy to light, efficient, and clean burning outdoor fireplaces. Fire pits and 360 degree open fireplaces are like a raised ring of rocks.