Earlier this week, another potential presidential candidate in the Ron Paul mold was put forward by a faction within the Paul coalition. Next week, Revolution PAC will reportedly announce the formation of a committee to draft Judge Andrew Napolitano (pictured) to run as a Republican in 2016 for president. The small but powerful monied cabal that runs the Republican (and Democratic, for that matter) Party will never allow a man they cannot control to be their party’s nominee for president. They railroaded Ron Paul, and they would do likewise to Andrew Napolitano.
“Judge Gray has been rumored to be a likely candidate for the Libertarian Party 2016 Presidential or VP nomination.”. Maybe Judge Gray should recruit Robert Milnes to run as his VP candidate and the two could bill themselves as the Teddy Roosevelt Libertarians. George Whitfield : I suggest that Judge Gray read “Theodore and Woodrow: How Two American Presidents Destroyed Constitutional Freedom” by Judge Andrew Napolitano for a more libertarian perspective of Theodore Roosevelt.
The “Draft the Judge” petition concludes by calling on “Judge Andrew Napolitano to offer himself as a ‘Republican‘ candidate for President of the United States” (emphasis added). As much as I appreciate Judge Napolitano, if he chooses to run as a Republican, I won’t be able to bring myself to expend my effort in support of his campaign. Spending time, money or the reputation of a good man on anything associated with the “R” party would be tantamount to giving aid and comfort to the enemy.
This would actually be all the more reason for Judge Napolitano to run for President on the Libertarian Party ticket. Rand Paul is not likely to win the Republican nomination. Napolitano could run for the Libertarian Party’s nomination while Rand is running for the Republican nomination. George Whitfield : I suggest that Judge Gray read “Theodore and Woodrow: How Two American Presidents Destroyed Constitutional Freedom” by Judge Andrew Napolitano for a more libertarian perspective of Theodore Roosevelt.
Draft Judge Andrew Napolitano for President shared MRCTV's video. October 4 at 4:49pm ·. Draft Judge Andrew Napolitano for President. October 6 at 3:48am ·. Sign the Petition. http://FireMcCarthy.com.
The other night I ran across a Facebook page titled “Draft Judge Andrew Napolitano for President.” I found that it is associated with a website devoted to the same purpose of convincing the judge to seek the Presidency in 2016. I like Judge Napolitano. As much as I appreciate Judge Napolitano, if he chooses to run as a Republican, I won’t be able to bring myself to expend my effort in support of his campaign. Spending time, money or the reputation of a good man on anything associated with the “R” party would be tantamount to giving aid and comfort to the enemy.
A Closer Look at History. “Mitt is the only non-incumbent GOP candidate for president to have ever won both Iowa and New Hampshire and his total vote count is the second largest number of votes ever received by a non-incumbent candidate in New Hampshire... * Economic smarts make Romney best of GOP field. We believe the president's top priority for the next four years will be restoring health and vigor to the American economy, and former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney is the Republican candidate best suited to the task.
Despite these qualifications, Hunter admits that Napolitano has neither encouraged nor accepted such an offer. In fact, when asked by Robert Wenzel of the Economic Policy Journal whether he would consider running for president, Judge Napolitano said, “ Probably not. The small but powerful monied cabal that runs the Republican (and Democratic, for that matter) Party will never allow a man they cannot control to be their party’s nominee for president. They railroaded Ron Paul, and they would do likewise to Andrew Napolitano.
Draft Judge Andrew Napolitano for President. 14 hrs ·. This will set up, much like the EU the Pacific Union or PU and yes it stinks. Draft Judge Andrew Napolitano for President. October 6 at 3:48am ·. Sign the Petition. http://FireMcCarthy.com.
The best thing about Judge Andrew Napolitano as a candidate for president is that he, like Ron Paul, will always tell the truth, no matter what, so help him God. The small but powerful monied cabal that runs the Republican (and Democratic, for that matter) Party will never allow a man they cannot control to be their party’s nominee for president. They railroaded Ron Paul, and they would do likewise to Andrew Napolitano.