In Prisoner of Azkaban, Sirius Black anonymously sends Harry a Firebolt broom after the demise of Harry's Nimbus 2000 in the Whomping Willow. At the end of PoA, Sirius writes Harry a letter and explains that, yes, it was he who sent the Firebolt:
The Firebolt was first developed by Randolph Spudmore around 1993, at a time when brooms made by the Nimbus Racing Broom Company dominated the market. Twelve months after its release, the Firebolt was the highest-selling racing broom of that time, beating out the Nimbus 2000 and 2001.
In Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban the book states that the Firebolt is priceless, so I would guess that it would cost a fair amount of gold. If you're looking to b … uy an actual Firebolt however, it is $295.00.
Harry Potter using his Firebolt in the first task of the Triwizard Tournament. Harry made good use of the broom throughout the rest of his time at Hogwarts, riding it during every Quidditch match he played. He also used the broom to get past a Hungarian Horntail during the First Task of the Triwizard Tournament in 1994.
A scene from Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban when Harry recieves a Firebolt from his Godfather Sirius Black.  1 Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban (Amazon.com).
In 1993 Harry Potter received a Firebolt racing broom as a Christmas present from an anonymous benefactor (Sirius Black, his godfather) following the destruction of his Nimbus 2000 in a Quidditch match against Hufflepuff.
1 In Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban, the Firebolt's handle is stated to be made of superfine ash. 2  Pottermore, however, lists it as having an ebony handle. 3  It is possible, however, that the person who wrote the advertisement that stated it to be ash was mistaken.
The Firebolt was used by both the Irish and Bulgarian teams during the 1994 Quidditch World Cup. Harry Potter first saw a prototype Firebolt broom in the window of Quality Quidditch Supplies in the summer before his third year. He wanted one, but he already had a Nimbus 2000 and had to remind himself of that to keep himself from going in and asking what the price was.