£20,000 + per year. If you enjoy science and want to help solve crimes, this job could be perfect for you. This type of scientist prepares traces of physical evidence for use in courts of law. Before you can start as a trainee you are likely to need an honours degree in a biology or chemistry-related subject. There may be opportunities to start with a company as a forensics lab support assistant if you have qualifications, such as HND, BTEC or A levels in science, together with relevant work experience. As with all forensics vacancies, there will be tough competition for jobs.
Biological Scientist Training and Qualifications. Most biological scientists need a Ph.D. in biology or one of its subfields to work in independent research or development positions. Other positions are available to those with a master's or bachelor's degree in the field. Education and training. A Ph.D. is usually necessary for independent research, particularly in academia, as well as for advancement to administrative positions.
1 Education – Data scientists are highly educated – 88% have at least a Master’s degree and 46% have PhDs – and while there are notable exceptions, a very strong educational background is usually required to develop the depth of knowledge necessary to be a data scientist. 1 The one language a Data Scientist must master-Sep 1, 2015. 2  R vs Python for Data Science: The Winner is 3  ... - May 26, 2015. 4  Top 5 arXiv Deep Learning Papers, Explained-Oct 1, 2015. 5  9 Must-Have Skills You Need to Become a Data Scientist-Nov 22, 2014. 6  15 Mathematics MOOCs for Data Science-Sep 23, 2015.
Don’t worry. In my experience as a data scientist, that’s not the case. You don’t need to learn a lifetime’s worth of data-related information and skills as quickly as possible. Instead, learn to read data science job descriptions closely. 
It may also improve your chances of finding work if you have work experience in a research department or your degree included a placement in a research environment. It may be possible to start as a research assistant or graduate industrial scientist and study part-time for a PhD whilst working. As a research scientist with research councils and institutes or in industry, you could progress to a senior research or laboratory management position once you are seen to be making a significant individual contribution to the work.
It is important to check potential employers' exact requirements as not all science-based subjects provide the right level of knowledge needed for the work. You can find more information about how to become a forensic scientist and a list of courses on the Forensic Science Society (FSS) website. There may be opportunities to start with a company as a forensics lab support assistant if you have qualifications, such as HND, BTEC or A levels in science, together with relevant work experience. As with all forensics vacancies, there will be tough competition for jobs.
Entry requirements. To begin your career as a research scientist you would need a good honours degree, usually at least 2:1, in a science subject related to your area of interest. Most research scientists then go on to study towards postgraduate qualifications. As a research scientist with research councils and institutes or in industry, you could progress to a senior research or laboratory management position once you are seen to be making a significant individual contribution to the work.
The education and training required to become a science teacher will help you develop the skills you need to transfer your love of science to the students in your classroom, perhaps inspiring some to become future scientists themselves. Science is often a subject students either love or hate. As a science teacher, you must be able to teach both types of students and help make science come alive.
As a research scientist, you would plan and carry out experiments and investigations to broaden scientific knowledge in a range of areas, from life sciences to industrial processes. If you have an enquiring mind, and would like to be at the forefront of scientific discovery, this could be the career for you. As a research scientist with research councils and institutes or in industry, you could progress to a senior research or laboratory management position once you are seen to be making a significant individual contribution to the work.
A Ph.D. in a biological science is the minimum education required for most prospective medical scientists. However, some medical scientists also earn medical degrees in order to perform clinical work. Students planning careers as medical scientists should pursue a bachelor's degree in a biological science. In addition to required courses in chemistry and biology, undergraduates should study allied disciplines, such as mathematics, engineering, physics, and computer science.