Characteristics and Lifespan. Shelties will typically live 11 to 15 years with proper care. Shelties innately herd so you must be careful your sheltie does not put himself in danger by herding cars or larger animals without supervision. The average sheltie is about 13 to 16 inches tall and weighs 11 to 30 pounds.
Life Span. The average life span of the Sheltie is 12 to 14 years. We realize that each dog is unique and may display other characteristics. This profile provides generally accepted breed information only. 
Health. The Sheltie has a lifespan of 12 to 14 years and may be prone to minor concerns like patellar luxation, allergies, hypothyroidism, Legg-Perthes, canine hip dysplasia, hemophilia, trichiasis, cataract, Collie eye anomaly, and progressive retinal atrophy, or a major one like dermatomyositis. 
Shelties colors can be black, merle or sable with a mix of white and/or tan colors. Shetland sheepdogs, also called shelties, are excellent working dogs and pets. Appearing as small collies, shelties come in multiple colors and have an average lifespan of 11 to 15 years. With regular exercise, shelties can make loving, loyal and fun additions to your family for a dozen or so years. Shelties innately herd so you must be careful your sheltie does not put himself in danger by herding cars or larger animals without supervision. The average sheltie is about 13 to 16 inches tall and weighs 11 to 30 pounds.
A Shetland Sheepdog, or Sheltie, is a breed of dog that looks similar to the Collie. It usually is around 13-16 in. tall and weighs around 15-20 lbs. It is a popular companion … breed, rarely used as a working dog. How big does a shetland sheepdog get? The male Shetland Sheepdog should average around 13-15 inches in height, with the female reaching around 12-14 inches. The weight of the male Shetland Sheepdog is around 14-18 … pounds, with females reach approximately 12-16 pounds in weight.
Answer   Because they are a smaller breed dog they have a longer life expectancy of 14-16 years. Some live even longer. The average lifespan of a Maltese can reach … fifteen years. Average weight of adult Maltese is four to seven pounds. a arverage dogs lifespan is 12.5 years Well considering that 10 is old for a dog I would say at least 13 to14   Depends on the breed. Smaller breeds tend to live longer. Terriers can often live until 16 years of age for example, whereas a good lifespan for some larger breeds can be as short as 10.
Average lifespan of a sheltie? The average lifespan of a Shetland Sheepdog (Sheltie) is about 10-15 years. a arverage dogs lifespan is 12.5 years Well considering that 10 is old for a dog I would say at least 13 to14   Depends on the breed. Smaller breeds tend to live longer. Terriers can often live until 16 years of age for example, whereas a good lifespan for some larger breeds can be as short as 10.
Shelties are generally a healthy and long-lived breed with an average life expectancy of 13-16 years. Shelties come in two basic colors: brown and black. Brown shelties are called ‘Sables’, and can range from a golden color to a very dark brown color, sometimes called shaded sable. The Shetland Sheepdog. The Shetland Sheepdog, or Sheltie, is a small to medium sized dog(13 to 16 inches) with medium build carrying a lush double coat that is smoother on the face and legs.