No. A notary surety bond is written with the expectation that the notary public will faithfully perform the duties of the office as notary public as prescribed by state laws. An insurance policy expects losses based upon calculated probabilities. A notary surety bond has the same elements as a bank s letter of credit. 
A Guide to Notary Bonds. SuretyBonds.com is legally licensed to issue notary bonds nationwide. Whether you’re a notary working in Utah, Texas, California or Arizona, we can help! A great deal of legal authority is put into the hands of notaries. Depending on your state’s notary bond requirement, you’ll pay just $50 to $135 for a year of bond coverage when working with SuretyBonds.com. Even though notary bonds are inexpensive compared to other types of surety bonds, they still provide a significant amount of coverage.
A surety bond is a legal instrument that reflects an agreement between three parties. In the case of a notary bond, those parties are the state, the surety company who underwrites the bond, and the notary public herself. How Bonds Pay Out. Notaries must be licensed by the state they work in, and if someone has a claim against a notary, he must file against the state. If a claim is made, the surety pays out to the state, as obligee, in the amount of the claim, up to the maximum limit of the bond.
State Specific Costs. Notary bond costs and requirements vary greatly as the notary bond amounts and regulations required for each license are established on a state level. Select your state below for more information about Notary Bonds in your area or call 1-800-308-4358 to speak with a surety expert. Begin your search by entering your ZIP: Depending on your state’s notary bond requirement, you’ll pay just $50 to $135 for a year of bond coverage when working with SuretyBonds.com. Even though notary bonds are inexpensive compared to other types of surety bonds, they still provide a significant amount of coverage.
A notary bond is a guarantee of payment to the obligee (the State) should a loss occur for a penalty amount of the bond. Notary bonds are usually provided by a surety company (typically an insurance carrier). The bond generally runs concurrently with the term of the notary public's commission. You're probably familiar with an auto insurance policy. If you have an auto accident, the insurance company pays the claim and writes off the loss.
Cost of Surety Bonds. The required value of a notary surety bond varies by state. They typically range from $5,000 to $15,000, depending on the period of time they're intended to cover. The cost of obtaining the bond is a tiny fraction of the bond amount, as little as $35 to $50 depending on the surety company. How Bonds Pay Out. Notaries must be licensed by the state they work in, and if someone has a claim against a notary, he must file against the state. If a claim is made, the surety pays out to the state, as obligee, in the amount of the claim, up to the maximum limit of the bond.
Cancel. Notary bonds allow an individual to notarize the truth of an event and are typically used in business deals where the bond acts as a financial remedy for the truth. 
Order your 4-year, $5,000 Illinois notary bond from the American Association of Notaries. It is a state requirement that all new Illinois notary public applicants provide a 4-year, $5,000 Illinois notary bond. The cost of the 4-year, $5,000 Illinois notary bond is only $30. Your $5,000 Illinois notary bond includes a $5,000 notary errors and omissions insurance policy for your protection at no extra cost
Notary Bonds. A bond guarantees a notary’s faithful performance of duty. A bond is mandated by law and protects your customers from loss as a result of negligence. Pennsylvania requires a notary to carry a $10,000 bond during each four-year commission. As a member of the Pennsylvania Association of Notaries, we can offer you guidance in your guarantee.
Notary Bonds. Several states require a Notary Bond in order to be licensed to conduct business as a Notary Public. The use of an embossing seal or an inking stamp is also required as part of your notarial duties. We offer Notary Errors & Omissions Insurance for sale with your Notary Public Bond and you should buy this insurance to protect yourself, your business and your reputation! Currently, BondsExpress.com does not provide Notary Bonds for the State of Florida.