Overview. Melatonin is a hormone secreted by the pineal gland in the brain. It helps regulate other hormones and maintains the body's circadian rhythm. The circadian rhythm is an internal 24-hour clock that plays a critical role in when we fall asleep and when we wake up. When it is dark, your body produces more melatonin. When it is light, the production of melatonin drops.
Within the human body, melatonin is a hormone naturally secreted by the pineal gland of the brain. Its main function is to help regulate other hormones within the body and help to maintain the body's circadian rhythm, a sort of internal clock for the body.**. 
Melatonin is a naturally occurring hormone, which plays an important role in regulating sleep. Secreted by the pineal gland, a small endocrine gland located in the brain, Melatonin controls the circadian rhythm, the body's internal clock that controls when a person falls asleep and wakes up. Melatonin is a hormone secreted from pineal gland and is important for the sleep-wakefulness cycle. High doses of melatonin can induce sleep(80mg) but low doses do not(2-10) but may only increase your propensity for slee.
By Dr Ananya Mandal, MD. Melatonin is a hormone that is secreted by the pineal gland. The pineal gland is a small gland that lies within the brain. It acts as a “chronobiotic” in the body. This hormone in other words helps in maintaining the normal circadian rhythms. Melatonin is secreted by the pineal gland in the brain. The secretion of the hormone occurs in response to the light and dark cycles. Normally, its production is reduced by being in bright light. On the other hand, being in darkness stimulates melatonin release. This is why it is often called ‘the hormone of darkness’
Melatonin secretion. Melatonin is secreted by the pineal gland in the brain. The secretion of the hormone occurs in response to the light and dark cycles. Normally, its production is reduced by being in bright light. On the other hand, being in darkness stimulates melatonin release. This is why it is often called ‘the hormone of darkness’
Examples of the circadian rhythm in melatonin secretion in humans is depicted in the figure to the right (adapted from Vaughn, et al, J Clin Endo Metab 42:752, 1976). The dark gray bars represent night, and serum melatonin levels are shown for two individuals (yellow versus light blue). The precursor to melatonin is serotonin, a neurotransmitter that itself is derived from the amino acid tryptophan. Within the pineal gland, serotonin is acetylated and then methylated to yield melatonin. Synthesis and secretion of melatonin is dramatically affected by light exposure to the eyes.
Read More. Melatonin is a naturally occurring neuro-hormone that is secreted by the pineal gland in the brain. When released from the pineal gland, melatonin causes drowsiness and a decrease in core body temperature. The levels of melatonin rise throughout the evening hours and peak in the middle of the night. Melatonin is a hormone secreted from pineal gland and is important for the sleep-wakefulness cycle. High doses of melatonin can induce sleep(80mg) but low doses do not(2-10) but may only increase your propensity for slee.