I know a Notary who is dying to notarize a Won’t with or without instructions from an Attorney! Tweets: (1) Yes, Notary can notarize signatures on a Will, although it is generally discouraged w/o written instructions from an Attorney. (2) Document drafting may or may not be considered practicing law in your state. Ask the Bar Association. 
No, in Florida, you do not need to notarize your will to make it legal. However, Florida allows you to make your will self-proving and you'll need to go to a notary if you want to do that. A self-proving will speeds up probate because the court can accept the will without contacting the witnesses who signed it.
All statutes. West Virginia. Two witnesses and a notary are required for a living will. Medical power of attorney for health care also requires two witnesses and a notary. §§16-30-1 to 16-30-25. All statutes. Wisconsin. Declaration to physicians requires two witnesses, but is not valid if pregnant. Minnesota. A notary or two witnesses are required for a health care living will. Not valid if pregnant. Two witnesses or a notary are required for durable power of attorney for health care.
The notary is responsible for administering an oath to the testator and the witnesses, and for completing the jurat. Witnesses. The notary does not have the responsibility of furnishing two witnesses for the execution of a self-proving will, or any other document. Because the witnesses' signatures are also notarized on a self-proved will, the notary may not serve as one of the witnesses. This also eliminates the notary's spouse, son, daughter, mother, or father from being one of the witnesses.
The Florida statutes do state A notary public may not notarize a sig … nature on a document if: The person whose signature is to be notarized is the spouse, son, daughter, mother, or father of the notary public. §117.107(11). It seems to be allowed, but I would personally find someone else to do it just to be sure. A notary can notarize the signature if it is signed in front of them and done in the state where the notary is licensed. Where the signing person lives does not matter.
Two witnesses or a notary are required for a living will, but it is not valid if pregnant unless pregnancy won't develop to a live birth. Durable power of attorney for health care requires a notary or two witnesses. Minnesota. A notary or two witnesses are required for a health care living will. Not valid if pregnant. Two witnesses or a notary are required for durable power of attorney for health care.
To make a living trust in Florida, you: 1  Create the trust document, which says who will inherit trust property and names you as trustee (the person in charge). 2  Sign the document in front of two witnesses and a notary public. 3  Transfer your property, such as your house and car, to your name as trustee of the trust. 
No. Section 117.107(11) of the Florida Statutes states: A notary public may not notarize a signature on a document if the person whose signature is to be notarized is the spo … use, son, daughter, mother or father of the notary public.. 2 people found this useful. A notary can notarize the signature if it is signed in front of them and done in the state where the notary is licensed. Where the signing person lives does not matter.
Other options that can be included in your Florida living will form: 1  Tip for Snowbirds: Many states mandate that a living will is notarized, so a notary block should be added if you are using this form in multiple states. 2  The name, address, and phone number of more than one physician can be included in the form. 1
In most places, a living trust document, unlike a will, does not need to be signed in front of witnesses. (In Florida, two witnesses are required; a witness statement automatically prints out with the Florida trust document.) But you do need to sign your living trust document in front of a notary public for your state. If you create a shared living trust, both of you need to sign the trust document in front of the notary