GameGain 4 for Windows. Install GameGain and play the latest PC games with the highest settings possible. With GameGain you can instantly increase the performance of your computer to make games run faster and play smoother. Compatible: Windows 10, 8, 7, Vista, XP & Windows Server 2012, 2008, 2003. 32-BIT/64-BIT ready. 
Sign in to Reply. To make your Pc run faster and smother you can make use of the Reimage Repair Tool. It is an efficient tool that organizes files so your computer finds them faster. It looks at your registry and memory, as well as your hard drive. It even creates an image of a perfect windows operating system. 1 First, you double-click My Computer before right-clicking the hard disk that you want to check. 2  Then, go to Properties and select Tools. 3  Once you've found the bit that says error-checking, hit check Now.
When one of these factors is affecting your PC game negatively, it causes it to run choppy and sluggishly, ruining your enjoyment of the game. There are a variety of techniques you can use to make your PC games run faster and smoother. Instructions. Upgrade your hardware. The three most important PC components to run a PC game are your CPU, video card and RAM. Upgrading any of these three components will result in smoother and faster gameplay. Upgrade your video card drivers.
Instructions. If you have anti-virus and anti-spyware software, you should first run this to make sure it's not a virus slowing down your computer. Next, empty your browser's cache. This is very easy to do and is one of the best ways to make your computer faster. Firefox browser: If you are on a Mac, run the Disk Utility called Repair Permissions. Disk Defragmenter: Press Analyze once in the program too see if your computer should be defragmented, and if so click the Defragment button when ready. Mac's Repair Permissions: Double click Disk Utilities.
Proven tips to make your Computer or Laptop run faster. How to make your computer faster is a question that may be bothering many of you struggling hard with slower machines. Computers/Laptops start to slow down as they get older and clogged up with files, unused software and other digital debris. As you use your computer and load programs, files, music, photos etc, the available space on your hard disk continually reduces. You should keep tabs on how much free space you have on the hard disk because Windows uses some of that space to keep information that it uses to run.
Running CHKDSK isn't hard either. 1  First, you double-click My Computer before right-clicking the hard disk that you want to check. 2  Then, go to Properties and select Tools. 1 First, you double-click My Computer before right-clicking the hard disk that you want to check. 2  Then, go to Properties and select Tools. 3  Once you've found the bit that says error-checking, hit check Now.
If you are on a Windows computer, run Disk Defragmenter. If you are on a Mac, run the Disk Utility called Repair Permissions. Disk Defragmenter: Press Analyze once in the program too see if your computer should be defragmented, and if so click the Defragment button when ready. Mac's Repair Permissions: Double click Disk Utilities.
Spyware and Ad-Ware will also make your computer run slower so get a good spyware cleaner like Spyware Doctor, AVG etc. Some anti-virus programs although needed for a Windows computer will slow down your computer (but it is very risky to use internet without security). 
free ram program. make pc run better. up win 8 cpu. how to speed up your computer on windows 8. make internet faster. speed up cpu in windows 8. how to speed up windows 8 for gaming. If an entire pot of coffee can brew in the time it takes for your computer to boot, it's time to make some changes. Most likely your computer is not slow -- it's the dozens of programs turning on during startup that are slowing it down