Refined sugar comes from sugar cane or sugar beets, which are processed to extract the sugar. It is typically found as sucrose, which is the combination of glucose and fructose. We use white and brown sugars to sweeten cakes and cookies, coffee, cereal and even fruit. But the effect on the body and your overall health depends on the type of sugar you’re eating, either natural or refined. We wanted to explore the difference between these sugar types as a follow-up to our post about whether sugar drives the growth of cancer, which has received several comments.
Natural sugars are found in fruit as fructose and in dairy products, such as milk and cheese, as lactose. Foods with natural sugar have an important role in the diet of cancer patients and anyone trying to prevent cancer because they provide essential nutrients that keep the body healthy and help prevent disease. But the effect on the body and your overall health depends on the type of sugar you’re eating, either natural or refined. We wanted to explore the difference between these sugar types as a follow-up to our post about whether sugar drives the growth of cancer, which has received several comments.
To most dieticians and food experts, natural sugar is the kind of sugar contained in fruits, vegetables, and other plants. Most of these sugars occur as fructose, though glucose and sucrose can also be found in some foods. Natural sugars occur most plentifully in fruits, which is what gives them their sweet and often appealing taste. Foods do not have to be sweet to contain sugar compounds, however. Carrots are often high in natural sweetness, as are most squashes.
Nutrition. The fructose in fruit has a natural advantage over table sugar because fruit contains so many vitamins, minerals and nutrients. According to the USDA, the nutrients in fruit can help reduce the risks of heart attack, stroke, cancer, diabetes, obesity, high blood pressure and other diseases. Quantities. The sugar in fruit is a monosaccharide called fructose, a type of carbohydrate. Table sugar, in contrast, is a disaccharide known as sucrose. Although most fruits have the same type of sugar in them, they don’t all have the same amount of it.
Natural sugars are those found naturally in foods. For example, lactose is a natural milk sugar and fructose is a sugar found in fruits. They can also be sugars that are naturally produced, not refined, and are added to foods, such as honey, stevia, agave nectar and maple syrup. Sources of natural sugar are considered healthier than refined sugars, because they usually contain additional nutrients -- for example, calcium from dairy products. Natural sugar refers to sugars that occur naturally in foods, such as fruits, while refined sugar is crystallized sugar that has gone through processing.
Overview. Sugars, also called saccarides, represent a type of carbohydrate. Sugars are often made up of carbon-based rings, which can be linked together to form more complex carbohydrates, such as starch. Natural-occurring sugars can be produced by cells within your body, or consumed through the foods you eat. Lactose. Lactose is a natural-occurring sugar found in milk, and other dairy products. It is also a component of human breast milk, providing a source of carbohydrates to a nursing infant. Lactose is a disaccaride, made up of one glucose and one galactose molecule bound together.
One type of natural-occurring sugar makes up the building block for several carbohydrates in your body. Upon ingestion, some natural sugars get chemically converted into glucose and are taken up by cells within your intestines for use by your body. Some glucose remains in your blood on its own, where it provides fuel for your muscles during physical activity, as well as acts as the major source of fuel for your brain. Lactose. Lactose is a natural-occurring sugar found in milk, and other dairy products. It is also a component of human breast milk, providing a source of carbohydrates to a nursing infant. Lactose is a disaccaride, made up of one glucose and one galactose molecule bound together.
CTCA. Sugar, in all forms, is a simple carbohydrate that the body converts into glucose and uses for energy. But the effect on the body and your overall health depends on the type of sugar you’re eating, either natural or refined. We wanted to explore the difference between these sugar types as a follow-up to our post about whether sugar drives the growth of cancer, which has received several comments.
Find answers to common questions about sugar—such as what is fructose and what is glucose—in our sugar glossary. When it comes to the health implications of sugar, most of what you hear about is naturally-occurring versus added sugars. 