Your heart is divided into two pumps which work together. Blood coming back from the organs and tissues of your body enters the right side of your heart which then pumps it to your lungs. Your lungs remove waste carbon dioxide from the blood and recharge it with oxygen. 
A. The heart is an amazing organ. It pumps oxygen and nutrient-rich blood throughout the body to sustain life. This fist-sized powerhouse beats (expands and contracts) 100,000 times per day, pumping five or six quarts of blood each minute, or about 2,000 gallons per day. 1 They begin with the aorta, the large artery leaving the heart. 2  Arteries carry oxygen-rich blood away from the heart to all of the body's tissues. 3  They branch several times, becoming smaller and smaller as they carry blood further from the heart and into organs. 4  Capillaries.
The human heart works with EVERY organ system in the body. Everything in the human body needs blood to survive and the heart provides that blood be pumped to every part of the … body. + 5 others found this useful. other organs that work with the heart are the lungs, the brain, the blood vessels, the red and white blood cells, and the nerves and veins.
View full size image. The human heart is an organ that pumps blood throughout the body via the circulatory system, supplying oxygen and nutrients to the tissues and removing carbon dioxide and other wastes. 
Double pump. Blood carries oxygen and many other substances around your body. Oxygen from your blood reacts with sugar in your cells to make energy. The waste product of this process, carbon dioxide, is carried away from your cells in your blood. Your heart is a single organ, but it acts as a double pump. The first pump carries oxygen-poor blood to your lungs, where it unloads carbon dioxide and picks up oxygen. It then delivers oxygen-rich blood back to your heart. The second pump delivers oxygen-rich blood to every part of your body. 
Your heart is a muscular organ that pumps blood to your body. Your heart is at the center of your circulatory system. This system consists of a network of blood vessels, such as arteries, veins, and capillaries. These blood vessels carry blood to and from all areas of your body. Your heart is vital to your health and nearly everything that goes on in your body. Without the heart's pumping action, blood can't move throughout your body. Your blood carries the oxygen and nutrients that your organs need to work well.
The heart is a muscular organ in humans and other animals, which pumps blood through the blood vessels of the circulatory system. Blood provides the body with oxygen and nutrients, and also assists in the removal of metabolic wastes. The heart is located in the middle compartment of the mediastinum in the chest. The heart functions as a pump in the circulatory system to provide a continuous circulation of blood throughout the body. This circulation consists of the systemic circulation to and from the body and the pulmonary circulation to and from the lungs.
Your heart works with the circulatory (heart, blood, vessels) and respiratory system (nose, trachea, lungs). The hearts pumping action helps to circulate blood through the bod … y. The heart must be supplied with rich fresh oxygen and used blood must be returned to the lungs for reoxygenation.. other organs that work with the heart are the lungs, the brain, the blood vessels, the red and white blood cells, and the nerves and veins.