theremin. n. 1. (Instruments) an electronic musical instrument, played by moving the hands through electromagnetic fields created by two metal rods. theremin-an electronic musical instrument; melodies can be played by moving the right hand between two rods that serve as antennas to control pitch; the left hand controls phrasing. electronic instrument, electronic musical instrument-a musical instrument that generates sounds electronically.
The theremin was used in movie soundtracks such as Miklos Miklós 'rozsa rózsa S for Spellbound And The lost Weekend And 'bernard herrmann S For the Day The Earth stood still and as the theme tune FOR the Itv Drama. Midsomer murders this has led to its association with a very. eerie sound The electric signals from the theremin are amplified and sent to a loudspeaker. The theremin was used in movie soundtracks such as Miklos Miklós 'rozsa rózsa S for Spellbound And The lost Weekend And 'bernard herrmann S For the Day The Earth stood still and as the theme tune FOR the Itv Drama. m
Definition of THEREMIN. : a purely melodic electronic musical instrument typically played by moving the hands in the electromagnetic fields surrounding two projecting antennae. ADVERTISEMENT.
theremin. an early electronic musical instrument whose tone and loudness are controlled by moving the hands through the air varying distances from two antennas. Origin of theremin. (plural theremins). 1  An electronic musical instrument that generates sound of varying pitch and volume depending on the proximity of the musician 's hands to two antennae mounted on the instrument.
On July 20, 2013, a group of 272 theremin players (Matryomin ensemble) in Hamamatsu, Shizuoka, Japan, achieved a Guinness world record as the largest theremin ensemble. (Youtube link) The name Matryomin is a portmanteau of the words matryoshka and theremin. The electric signals from the theremin are amplified and sent to a loudspeaker. The theremin was used in movie soundtracks such as Miklos Miklós 'rozsa rózsa S for Spellbound And The lost Weekend And 'bernard herrmann S For the Day The Earth stood still and as the theme tune FOR the Itv Drama. midsomer murders
The instrument's controlling section usually consists of two metal antennas that sense the relative position of the thereminist's hands and control oscillators for frequency with one hand, and amplitude (volume) with the other. The electric signals from the theremin are amplified and sent to a loudspeaker. The theremin was used in movie soundtracks such as Miklos Miklós 'rozsa rózsa S for Spellbound And The lost Weekend And 'bernard herrmann S For the Day The Earth stood still and as the theme tune FOR the Itv Drama. midsomer murders
Noun. 1. theremin-an electronic musical instrument; melodies can be played by moving the right hand between two rods that serve as antennas to control pitch; the left hand controls phrasing. electronic instrument, electronic musical instrument-a musical instrument that generates sounds electronically. 1  Facebook. 2  Twitter
Noun. 1. theremin-an electronic musical instrument; melodies can be played by moving the right hand between two rods that serve as antennas to control pitch; the left hand controls phrasing. electronic instrument, electronic musical instrument-a musical instrument that generates sounds electronically. 1  Facebook. theremin. n. 1. (Instruments) an electronic musical instrument, played by moving the hands through electromagnetic fields created by two metal rods.