No, Aloe Vera doesn't help prevent or heal sunburn. I have to admit to being surprised by this. I was expecting to see a (small) effect. 1  Porntip Puvabanditsin and Rujirat Vongtongsri, Efficacy of Aloe Vera Cream in Prevention and Treatment of Sunburn and Suntan J Med Assoc Thai 2005; 88(Suppl 4): S173-6. The aloe vera cream has no bleaching effect too. 1  Feily, A.; Namazi, M. R., Aloe vera in dermatology: a brief review. 2  Giornale Italiano di Dermatologia e Venereologia 2009 Vol. 144 No. 1 pp. 85-91 ISSN 0026-4741.
Aloe vera gel is used in hospitals for burn victims. Aloe Vera comes from the aloe vera plant, and the gel may be squeezed from its leaves, or you can buy pure aloe vera gel as a product in most health food stores. Vitamin E Cream. One of the antioxidants, vitamin E creams, ointments and oils, can help heal sunburn damage and shorten its effects. Increase Your Vitamin C. 
the aloe vera plant has been used for thousands of years to heal a variety of conditions most notably burns wounds skin irritations and constipation it is grown in most subtropical and tropical locations including south africa latin america and the caribbean 
1 In a 100% share, aloe vera contains 99% of water and 1% is filled with 150 minerals and trace elements such as vitamins, zinc, calcium, iron, magnesium, copper, zinc, sodium, manganese, tannins, germanium, potassium, amino acids and selenium. 2  In which all these things will effectively cures sunburn problem. 1 To get more effective results, you have to use aloe vera gel that has been freshly taken out from the leaves. 2  It contain certain elements like tannins (astringent) and selenium which are well known used for sunburns and these are widely used in preparing many commercial sunburn lotions and creams as well.
Use store-bought aloe. If you do not have an aloe plant, you can use over-the-counter aloe gel or cream. It can be acquired at most general stores, pharmacies, and grocery stores. When purchasing a brand, make sure the cream or gel is 100% pure aloe vera gel, or as close as possible. Part 2 of 2: Treating the Burn with Aloe Vera. 1. Cut aloe from a plant. If you have an aloe plant in your home or near where your burn occurred, you can use it to get fresh aloe. Remove a few meaty leaves near the bottom of an aloe vera plant.
1 Take aloe vera leaf and take out the gel from it. 2  Place this aloe vera gel in a small bowl. 3  Then add few drops of lavender oil in it. 4  This lavender oil has analgesic, tissue regeneration and anti – inflammatory property that helps to sooth the sunburn affected skin areas. 1 To get more effective results, you have to use aloe vera gel that has been freshly taken out from the leaves. 2  It contain certain elements like tannins (astringent) and selenium which are well known used for sunburns and these are widely used in preparing many commercial sunburn lotions and creams as well.
The Power of Aloe Vera. Aloe vera is a plant imported from Africa. Aloe vera contains a gel or a juice portion used frequently for burns. The gel or juice in the plant has soothing qualities, especially for burns and is antibacterial. Even hospitals now use aloe vera for burn victims. 
Overview. The Aloe vera plant has been used for thousands of years to heal a variety of conditions, most notably burns, wounds, skin irritations, and constipation. It is grown in subtropical and tropical locations, including South Africa, Latin America, and the Caribbean
1 Or you can also apply this aloe vera gel or juice on sunburned lips to have soothing and cooling affect on lips and to get rid of sunburn quickly. 2  Not only sunburned skin or lips, but it also used for curing sunburn itch relief, repairing the peeled sunburn skin and heals the sunburn blisters. 1 To get more effective results, you have to use aloe vera gel that has been freshly taken out from the leaves. 2  It contain certain elements like tannins (astringent) and selenium which are well known used for sunburns and these are widely used in preparing many commercial sunburn lotions and creams as well.
1 Aloe vera gel is suggested for peeling sunburn skin why because the aloe vera juice forms a protective layer and helps to hold the moisture within the skin. 2  It has amazing hydrating property that helps for faster healing from sunburn. 1 To get more effective results, you have to use aloe vera gel that has been freshly taken out from the leaves. 2  It contain certain elements like tannins (astringent) and selenium which are well known used for sunburns and these are widely used in preparing many commercial sunburn lotions and creams as well.