USA Rail Height For REsidences. Guardrails are required once the deck is 30 or more above the grade. A 36 rail measured from the top of rail to the deck surface is required. California is the one exception where they require 42 guards. Canada REsidential Height and Dimensions. Guards are required when then deck is 24 (60 cm) above grade. The minimum height of the railing varies based on the height of the deck. Decks 24 to 5-10 (180 cm) need 36 guards and anything above 5-10 requires a 42 high railing
Install railings on any deck that is 30 inches or more from the surrounding surface and on at least one side of a stairway leading to the deck. The top of the handrail should be at least 34 inches but not more than 38 inches high. 
Railings for residential decks require a height of 3 feet from the floor of the deck to the rail top surface, as mandated by the IRC. Commercial railings necessitate a higher railing at 42 inches, as regulated by the IBC. Another specification for railings include rail spacing that is less than 4 inches apart, making sure that a ball or sphere of 4 inches in diameter cannot push in between for safety parameters.
Helpful Tips. Any deck that is 30 inches or more above ground must have a railing, as well as a building permit for that deck, if it is an addition to a building. If a deck is below 30 inches, it is the owner's choice to install railings, though they still must adhere to the mandated rules. Commercial railings necessitate a higher railing at 42 inches, as regulated by the IBC. Another specification for railings include rail spacing that is less than 4 inches apart, making sure that a ball or sphere of 4 inches in diameter cannot push in between for safety parameters.
Rail height below 42 inches puts most of the body mass above the rail. A child slipping through the balcony railings and falling to the ground below is a nightmare no parent or homeowner wants to face. That's why local and state building codes regulate the gaps allowable in balcony railings. The balustrade is the entire railing assembly. It consists of posts spaced through the length to stabilize the railings, balusters -- the thinner vertical members -- in between the posts and the top and bottom rails that frame the vertical members.
Is not excessivly high for an elderly person, and keeps everyone happy. As for the balcony height that is for a balcony and not a stair railing. The GC is incorrect on that point (nor more than 38 inches (965 mm)above landings). Stairs are for assending and decending. People do not tend to lean over the railings while going up or down stair cases. 
In this example, an architecturally correct railing height for this house is 27.25 inches or lower. This places the rail even with the window sill. Therefore, this hand rail must be 8.75 inches higher to meet the building code requirement of 36 inches from the porch floor (36-27.25=8.75). Your railing height is now up to the 36″ code. Well – almost to code. Step 3) To correct this, a 1 x 1.5 inch strip of wood should be attached to the support blocks. You will then have a space of 3 inches on one side and 2.75″ on the other side. Building Code: Your rail height must be 36 inches or more.
What is the new building code requirement for rail height on a deck? Is it 42 regardless of the distance to the ground, or is it 36 as long as that distance is less than x. This site says: 