Galen Tyrol (commonly referred to as The Chief) is a character on the television series Battlestar Galactica. Tyrol is responsible for the maintenance of the Vipers and Raptors aboard Battlestar Galactica. After the events of the miniseries, he was the ship's highest-ranking non-commissioned officer at rank of Senior Chief Petty Officer. Galen Tyrol is played by Aaron Douglas, who originally auditioned for the role of Lee Adama before that role went to English actor Jamie Bamber. At the start of the series, Tyrol is romantically involved with Lieutenant Sharon Boomer Valerii aboard Galactica, who is, unbeknownst to either Tyrol or herself, a Cylon.
This special “Battlestar Galactica” extended episode takes place during Apollo’s tenure as commander of the Pegasus. It centers on Kendra Shaw (Stephanie Chaves-Jacobsen), a Pegasus crew member who is chosen by Apollo to be his new executive officer. 
Battlestar Galactica (BSG) is an American military science fiction television series, and part of the Battlestar Galactica franchise. Unlike most space opera series, Battlestar Galactica has no humanoid aliens (the antagonists are man-made Cylon robots), the primary armaments used by both military forces utilize bullets, rail guns, and missiles instead of lasers, and the series intentionally avoids technobabble.
As depicted in Battlestar Galactica: Blood & Chrome, in the tenth year of the First Cylon War, Adama, (played by Luke Pasqualino) is a new Academy graduate, assigned to the newest battlestar in the Colonial fleet: the Galactica. Adama was born on Caprica, the son of Joseph Adama (a civil liberties lawyer and previously a lawyer for the Ha'la'tha, the Tauron resistance movement turned mob) and Joseph's second wife, Evelyn Adama (an accountant). Though he's raised on Caprica, he later states that he was a fan of the Picon Panthers.
Bill was the only child of Joseph and Evelyn, though he is Joseph's third child, a half-brother to Joseph's children Tamara and Willie with his first wife Shannon, who died in the year YR42 on the Colonial calendar (as depicted in the prequel series Caprica). Adama was born on Caprica, the son of Joseph Adama (a civil liberties lawyer and previously a lawyer for the Ha'la'tha, the Tauron resistance movement turned mob) and Joseph's second wife, Evelyn Adama (an accountant). Though he's raised on Caprica, he later states that he was a fan of the Picon Panthers.
Another spin-off, Battlestar Galactica: Blood & Chrome, was released in November 2012 as a web series of ten 10-minute episodes, and aired on February 10, 2013 on Syfy as a televised movie. Unlike most space opera series, Battlestar Galactica has no humanoid aliens (the antagonists are man-made Cylon robots), the primary armaments used by both military forces utilize bullets, rail guns, and missiles instead of lasers, and the series intentionally avoids technobabble.
1 Gage is a Specialist serving on the battlestar Pegasus, and later on Galactica, played by Mike Dopud. 2  He appears in four episodes. 3  Jurgen Belzen was the long-time executive officer on Pegasus who was executed by Admiral Helena Cain for insubordination, played by Steve Bacic. Leland Joseph Adama, commonly known as Lee Adama or by his callsign, Apollo, is a former Colonial Fleet Reserve officer who is appointed Galactica ‍ '​s CAG after the Cylon attack the Twelve. He is the sole surviving son of William Adama.
77. William Adama, a veteran of the First Cylon War, is the commanding officer of the Battlestar Galactica, and has the longest tenure as the highest-ranking officer in the Colonial Fleet after the Fall of the Twelve Colonies. Laura Roslin. Mary McDonnell. Leland Joseph Adama, commonly known as Lee Adama or by his callsign, Apollo, is a former Colonial Fleet Reserve officer who is appointed Galactica ‍ '​s CAG after the Cylon attack the Twelve. He is the sole surviving son of William Adama.