Note If you give a new macro the same name as a built-in macro in Office Word 2007, the new macro actions will replace the built-in macro. To view a list of built-in macros, on the Developer tab, in the Code group, click Macros. In the Macros in list, click Word Commands. In the Store macro in box, click the template or document in which you want to store the macro.
To do that, you will create a Macro-Enabled Template file. First, close any Word files that you have open. To create the new file to hold your macros, click the File button, click New, and then click My Templates. In the New dialog box, select the Template option button and then click OK.
Tip You can open the macro security settings dialog box from the Developer tab in the Ribbon, which is part of the Microsoft Office Fluent user interface. If the Developer tab is not available, click the Microsoft Office Button, and then click Word Options.
Change the keyboard shortcut for a macro. Click the Microsoft Office Button, and then click Word Options. Click Customize. Next to Keyboard shortcuts, click Customize. In the Categories list, click Macros. In the Macros list, click the macro that you want to change.
The AutoNew macro runs when New is selected on the File menu in Word if the AutoNew macro was saved as part of the current template. The AutoNew macro does not run if the AutoNew macro was saved as part of a global add-in. The AutoNew macro is available when you select Macros on the Tools menu.
In Microsoft Word, a macro is a series of commands and instructions that you group together as a single command to accomplish a task automatically. Typical uses for macros include speeding up routine editing and formatting, combining multiple commands, and automating a complex series of tasks.
Macros are a great way to automate your work in Microsoft Word. A macro is a set of tasks that can be performed by pressing a shortcut key, clicking a Quick Access toolbar button, or by selecting the macro from a list.
To change your macro security settings: 1  In Word 2010, from the menu, select. 2  In Word 2007, from the Office Button menu, select. 3  Click, and then click. 4  A new page will open. 5  Click on the left, and then select from the following security levels: 6  will allow only macros installed in trusted locations to run.
Record or run a macro. In Microsoft Office Word 2007, you can automate frequently used tasks by creating and running macros. A macro is a series of commands and instructions that you group together as a single command to accomplish a task automatically.