With reference to the anterior thoracic wall, Eycleshymer and Schoemaker found the apex of the heart at the level of the fifth intercostal space in the mamillary line. According to Joessel, Schultze, and others, the apex lies at the level of the fifth intercostal space midway between the parasternal and mamillary lines.
Gross anatomy. The carina is found at the base of the trachea and it is formed as the main bronchi divide into right and left branches. The carina usually sits in the T4/T5 plane and is at the level of the sternal angle (thoracic plane). Carina ultimately derives from Latin, meaning keel of a boat 1.
1 This is the sternal angle. 2  The 2nd rib is continuous with the sternal angle; slide your finger down to localize the 2nd intercostal space. 3  The angle of Louis also marks the site of bifurcation of the trachea into the right and left main bronchi and corresponds with the upper border of the atria of the heart.
The carina is part of the trachea and is an important reference point in chest imaging. The carina is found at the base of the trachea and it is formed as the main bronchi divide into right and left branches. The carina usually sits in the T4/T5 plane and is at the level of the sternal angle (thoracic plane). Carina ultimately derives from Latin, meaning keel of a boat 1.
They report the average position as being at the level of the upper third of the ninth thoracic vertebra. With reference to the anterior thoracic wall, the tricuspid valve is slightly to the right of the median line, opposite the sternal end of the fourth intercostal space.
The aortic valve area is located at the left fourth intercostal space at the level of the shoulder. The mitral valve is located between the shoulder and elbow at the fifth intercostal space.
The space located between the ribs is called the intercostal space. Because there are 12 ribs on each side of the thorax, there are 11 intercostal spaces, which comprise intercostal muscles and membranes and neurovascular structures (Fig. 1).