The Cold War Museum-Franklin D. Roosevelt. Roosevelt had pledged the United States to the good neighbor policy, transforming the Monroe Doctrine from a unilateral American manifesto into arrangements for mutual action against aggressors. He also sought, through neutrality legislation ... Good Neighbor Policy. We get to freedom through democracy; to prosperity through trade; and to security through a concerted, multiple-layered effort to combat the scourges of terrorism, narcotics trafficking, criminality and lawlessness, and other transnational threats..
The greatest risk faced by the United States in the post-cold war era is that the U.S. will declare victory against communism and fail to fundamentally reassess its foreign policy toward Latin America and the rest of the globe. To begin this assessment, it is helpful to examine several past criticisms of U.S. foreign policy toward Latin America. It is also important to understand the two basic approaches the United States has adopted toward Latin American governments, the motives for each policy, and their respective results.
Roosevelt had pledged the United States to the good neighbor policy, transforming the Monroe Doctrine from a unilateral American manifesto into arrangements for mutual action against aggressors. Assuming the Presidency at the depth of the Great Depression as our 32nd President (1933-1945), Franklin D. Roosevelt helped the American people regain faith in themselves. Assuming the Presidency at the depth of the Great Depression
Canada, like the United States, was little damaged by the war and in 1945 was one of the world's largest economies. It operated its own aid program. In 1948, the U.S. allowed ERP aid to be used in purchasing goods from Canada. Canada made over a billion dollars in sales in the first two years of operation. 
The Good Neighbor policy was the foreign policy of the administration of United States President Franklin Roosevelt towards Latin America. Although the policy was implemented by the Roosevelt administration, 19th-century politician Henry Clay paved the way for it and coined the term Good Neighbor.
The Good Neighbor Policy terminated the U.S. Marines occupation of Nicaragua in 1933 and occupation of Haiti in 1934, led to the annulment of the Platt Amendment by the Treaty of Relations with Cuba in 1934, and the negotiation of compensation for Mexico's nationalization of foreign-owned oil assets in 1938. Although the policy was implemented by the Roosevelt administration, 19th-century politician Henry Clay paved the way for it and coined the term Good Neighbor.
President Roosevelt intended that his Good Neighbor Policy improve U.S. relations with nations around the world. But it was in the Western Hemisphere that FDR s new foreign policy framework had its most dramatic impact. The Good Neighbor Policy demonstrated that it was possible to alter the course of international relations and U.S. foreign policy. As in 1932, it is time once again to change course, and the model of the Good Neighbor policy is a good one to follow.
The United States tried unsuccessfully to subvert the revolution in Cuba through the Bay of Pigs invasion by Cuban exiles in 1961. Castro allowed the Soviet Union to place nuclear missiles in Cuba a year later, to defend the island against continued threats from the United States. Good Neighbor Policy. We get to freedom through democracy; to prosperity through trade; and to security through a concerted, multiple-layered effort to combat the scourges of terrorism, narcotics trafficking, criminality and lawlessness, and other transnational threats..
The Good Neighbor Policy and the Pan-American war propaganda were further abandoned when the United States ignored free trade overtures and viewed Latin America merely as a supplier of raw materials and tropical foodstuffs. Good Neighbor Policy. We get to freedom through democracy; to prosperity through trade; and to security through a concerted, multiple-layered effort to combat the scourges of terrorism, narcotics trafficking, criminality and lawlessness, and other transnational threats..