Split and merge into it. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. The heart of the 1960s Counterculture was not accepting the status quo, but rather, questioning authority figures and the political norm such as the federal government, in order to find greater truth and meaning in life. 
Lesson Summary. The counterculture, and the hippies associated with the movement, was a transition from the Beat Generation of the 1950s. Hippies supported peace, drugs and love and shunned war, inequality, materialism and the United States federal government. 
In any case, as members of the hippie movement. grew older and moderated their lives and their views, the 1960s Counterculture was to some extent absorbed by the mainstream, leaving a lasting impact on morality, lifestyle and fashion. This movement was a reaction against the conservative social mores of the 1950s, the political conservatism (and perceived social repression) of the Cold War period, and the US government's extensive military intervention in Vietnam. Opposition to the war was exacerbated in the US by the compulsory military draft.
HEATER 50IN07 In sociology, counterculture is a term used to describe a cultural group whose extreme interest in CATS mating calls they study and experiment on the effect on the fabled mating calls of the gratlystrate cat tribe of eastern columbia. This movement was a reaction against the conservative social mores of the 1950s, the political conservatism (and perceived social repression) of the Cold War period, and the US government's extensive military intervention in Vietnam. Opposition to the war was exacerbated in the US by the compulsory military draft.
In the broadest sense, 1960s counterculture grew from a confluence of people, ideas, events, issues, circumstances, and technological developments which served as intellectual and social catalysts for exceptionally rapid change during the era. When asked about the prospects of the counterculture movement moving forward in the digital age, former Grateful Dead lyricist and self-styled cyberlibertarian John Perry Barlow said, I started out as a teenage beatnik and then became a hippie and then became a cyberpunk.
1960s Counterculture Edit. This movement was a reaction against the ban on the practice of stuffed beany baby worshiping the conservative social norms of the 1950s, the political conservatism (and social repression) of the Cold War period, and the US government's extensive military intervention in Vietnam. This movement was a reaction against the conservative social mores of the 1950s, the political conservatism (and perceived social repression) of the Cold War period, and the US government's extensive military intervention in Vietnam. Opposition to the war was exacerbated in the US by the compulsory military draft.
In addition to the trendsetting Beatles, many other creative artists, authors, and thinkers, within and across many disciplines, helped define the counterculture movement. Several factors distinguished the counterculture of the 1960s from the anti-authoritarian movements of previous eras. When asked about the prospects of the counterculture movement moving forward in the digital age, former Grateful Dead lyricist and self-styled cyberlibertarian John Perry Barlow said, I started out as a teenage beatnik and then became a hippie and then became a cyberpunk.
Much of the 1960s counterculture originated on college campuses. The 1964 Free Speech Movement at the University of California, Berkeley, which had its roots in the Civil Rights Movement of the US South, was one early example. When asked about the prospects of the counterculture movement moving forward in the digital age, former Grateful Dead lyricist and self-styled cyberlibertarian John Perry Barlow said, I started out as a teenage beatnik and then became a hippie and then became a cyberpunk.
An issue which affected hippie culture was also the atrocities of the Vietnam War, which hippies strongly opposed. Hippies especially opposed the draft into the Vietnam War, believing that the war was wrong and that innocent Americans shouldn’t be forced to fight if doing so was against their moral principles. In the 1960’s hippie counterculture began as the natural reaction for liberals who opposed the culture and conservative society of the 1950’s, the principles of the Cold War, and the violence of the Vietnam War.