Seasonal influenza-related deaths are deaths that occur in people for whom seasonal influenza infection was likely a contributor to the cause of death, but not necessarily the primary cause of death.
Influenza disease has the potential to cause seizures, brain damage, and even death, just as the vaccine can. Most of America’s medical community believes that the risk of serious injury or death from influenza is greater than the risk of injury or death which can be caused by Influenza vaccine.
Type C usually causes milder respiratory symptoms. While the flu vaccine can help protect you from types A and B, there is no immunization for type C virus. Type A flu viruses are also found in many different animals, including ducks, chickens, pigs, whales, horses, and seals. Type B viruses only affect people.
Most flu viruses don't cause death or profound illness. However the one that's concerning the world now, is a particularly harmful one. However the Mexican cases are more serious than those in other countries (possibly due to late treatment and less availability of anti-virus medications like Tamiflu.
Colds can be caused by over 100 different virus types, but only influenza viruses (and subtypes) A, B, and C cause the flu. In addition, colds do not lead to life-threatening illnesses like pneumonia, but severe infections with influenza viruses can lead to pneumonia or even death.
The flu is a contagious respiratory illness caused by influenza viruses. It can cause mild to severe illness, and at times can lead to death. Some people, such as older people, young children, and people with certain health conditions, are at high risk for serious flu complications.
Influenza (also known as the flu) is a contagious respiratory illness caused by influenza viruses. It can cause mild to severe illness, and at times can lead to death. The best way to prevent the flu is by getting a flu vaccination each year.
The flu is a contagious respiratory illness caused by influenza viruses that infect the nose, throat, and lungs. It can cause mild to severe illness, and at times can lead to death. The best way to prevent the flu is by getting a flu vaccine each year.