When Private School Tuition Costs More Than College. Private high schools in New England charge more than $35,000 a year on average in tuition. Marymount School of New York is one of the most expensive private high schools in the country. Tuition for a typical private high school in the Southeast costs a relatively modest $18,900 a year. But move a few hours north and that price tag becomes far more daunting.
Quite a number of schools have tuition that starts under $4,000 per year for elementary levels, while many schools fall into a range of $6,000 to $12,000 per year, depending on what grade your child is in. In general, boarding schools where the tuition covers boarding fees are the most expensive. At Montcrest School in Toronto, 85% of tuition (which ranges from $18,000 to $34,335 annually, depending on the grade) goes towards faculty compensation, says Jim Linley, Director of Finance.
New England is home to the most expensive private, four-year colleges in the country, their tuition and fees averaging $39,200 this year, according to the College Board. Private, four-year colleges in the South, on the other hand, charged $27,400 on average this year. Tuition for a typical private high school in the Southeast costs a relatively modest $18,900 a year. But move a few hours north and that price tag becomes far more daunting.
States States Towns Towns Counties Counties. The national average private school tuition is approximately $10,154 per year. The private elementary school average is $7,406 per year and the private high school average is $13,476 per year. Did You Know? The most expensive town for private school tuition is Palo Alto, CA with an average tuition of $27,213. The most expensive county for private school tuition is Litchfield County, CT with an average tuition of $45,534.
Tuition Fees. School fees for the 2015-2016 Academic Year. Glenburnie School does not ask or expect parents to contribute to any capital costs or to expansion plans. Fees for full-day Pre-kindergarten and Junior Kindergarten range from $17,200 – $18,950.
You’re right. L.A. private school tuition isn’t cheap. And, tuition doesn’t even cover the full cost of educating a child at a private school. So, in addition to writing the big check, a parent can expect to contribute to annual giving, auctions or gala fundraisers and numerous other events throughout the year. 73. Here's a list of L.A. private elementary school tuition for 2015-16. We picked a range of schools to put on the chart, but this isn't an all-inclusive list. If you have a school you'd like people to know about, leave a comment! The cost of private school doesn't begin and end with tuition
Until June 10, the application fee and half of one-month’s tuition (non-refundable) will hold a spot for the student. After June 10, a full-month’s tuition (non-refundable) holds the spot until July 10, when a second month’s payment is due. Only the first full month’s tuition is non-refundable if you withdraw before the first day of school (excepting International Students for all of the above). Tuition & Fees. OUR TUITION INCLUDES… Our tuition includes many fees and programs that may be charged for separately at other Christian/private schools; including activity fees, book fees, consumable materials fees, laboratory fees, music fees (instrumental and choral), athletic transportation fees, and technology fees.