Where is Amsterdam located on the world map, you might be wondering? Amsterdam is the capital city of the Netherlands, and this country is located in North-West Europe between Germany in the east, Belgium in the south, and the North Sea in the north and west. Amsterdam is located in the province of North-Holland. The provincial capital of North-Holland is not Amsterdam, though, but Haarlem.
Amsterdam Map. Explore map of Amsterdam, it is the capital city and most populous city of Netherlands. Its status as the Dutch capital is given by the Constitution of the Netherlands. It has a estimated population of 825,080 within the city proper, 1,590,520 in the metropolitan area and 1,317,663 in the urban area
Map of Amsterdam. We also offer other quality maps of Amsterdam: 1  Amsterdam hotel map. 2  Interactive map of Amsterdam that helps to choose a hotel by it's location. 3  Metro map Easy to print scheme of the underground transportant in Amstedam. 4  Free printable map of Amsterdam.
detailed map of Amsterdam and near places. Welcome to the Amsterdam google satellite map! This place is situated in Noord-Holland, Netherlands, its geographical coordinates are 52° 21' 0 North, 4° 55' 0 East and its original name (with diacritics) is Amsterdam. See Amsterdam photos and images from satellite below, explore the aerial photographs of Amsterdam in Netherlands.
1 Amsterdam hotel map. 2  Interactive map of Amsterdam that helps to choose a hotel by it's location. 3  Metro map Easy to print scheme of the underground transportant in Amstedam. 4  Free printable map of Amsterdam. 5  You can also use our original printable Amsterdam city map, which was designed especially to print and take. We also offer other quality maps of Amsterdam: 1 
Amsterdam Map : Amsterdam is the capital of Netherlands as mandated by the Dutch constitution, though the seat of the government is at The Hague. Amsterdam is a vital part of the Randstad conurbation and a top financial city. It covers an area of 219 sq km and has a population of 805,166 in 2013. Explore map of Amsterdam, it is the capital city and most populous city of Netherlands. Its status as the Dutch capital is given by the Constitution of the Netherlands. It has a estimated population of 825,080 within the city proper, 1,590,520 in the metropolitan area and 1,317,663 in the urban area
The Amsterdam city map is available for €2.50 at any of the official Visitor Information Centres, or you can download a map of the city centre to use during your visit. The map legend is printed in six languages and also includes a detailed street index, as well as tram and metro lines. In addition to the map of Amsterdam, you’ll find an overview map of the greater Amsterdam metropolitan region.
Amsterdam The Map. Amsterdam The Map is an attractive and detailed offline tourist map of Amsterdam. It contains a GPS Locator, that shows where you are on the map and loads of other useful information. Major landmarks appear as 3D drawings, and information pops up as you touch the screen
Legal notice, please read: Amsterdam.info is pleased to offer its visitors a possibility of high quality map of Amsterdam. Any copying of the map, except for the print for personal use of Amsterdam.info visitors, is violation of the copyrights and is explicitely prohibited. 