1 Height. 2  Make sure the changing table is tall enough that you won't have to bend over it, especially if you're prone to back problems. 3  Tables range in height from 32 to 42 inches (approximately 81–107 centimeters), so you should be able to find a comfortable fit at any height. 4  Baby position. 1 Make sure the changing table is tall enough that you won't have to bend over it, especially if you're prone to back problems. 2  Tables range in height from 32 to 42 inches (approximately 81–107 centimeters), so you should be able to find a comfortable fit at any height.
I have a true changing table and it's 39 high. I'm 5'5 and that's a very comfortable height for me. I think anything from about 34-45 would be okay. It seems like most changing tables are around 36-38 inches tall. I have the changing pad on a shorter dresser and the salesman who sold me the furniture tried to talk me into a taller dresser but I'm short (5'0) and have no problem with the shorter height. Michelle I.
Tall parents have needs too, starting with a taller than average baby changing table. Nearly all baby changing tables are built to around 37 tall. This means a lot of stooping and sore backs for anyone over 5' 10 or so, let alone someone well over 6 feet. Dad and mom can spend several minutes at a changing table depending on the job at hand.
Well, it's a great idea to use a regular dresser for changing, especially if you're limited in space. A good height would be about 36 tall. A standard table might be 20 wide x 26 long x 36 high. A standard changing pad is 17 x 33. As far as dressers, Ikea is a good place to start. The Malm 4 drawer has a really clean, simple design, good dimensions, and a great pri
Good luck. I just measured my changing table and the shelf where baby will go is 30 inches tall, yours would run 41 so quite a bit taller but I measured and I think it would be fine I'm also 5ft 5 and the changer feels very short to me. Bending wasnt my favorite thing after I got hone from the hospital with my last. I just got a changing pad and my intent was to just use it on the floor or something as we do not have a changing table. But just for kicks, I'm wondering if maybe our dresser would work for it. The dresser is 3ft 5in and I'm about 5ft 5in.
Report Abuse. My son's changing table is a dresser with a changing table part that can be taken off and just used as a dresser when he no longer needs the changing table. It is 3 drawers high. It is not too tall, as I am short, about 5'2, and it is fine for me. Gabrielle *Ryder's Mommy* · 6 years ago. Seems like most changing tables and 3 drawer dressers are anywhere from 35-41 inches tall, which seems like it would be too tall.
A bedside table lamp should not be too large or too small, but a happy medium. The size of your lamp should be based upon the size of the bedside table it sits upon. According to William Miller Design, if your nightstand is 24 inches to 30 inches tall, the ideal height for a lamp is 27 inches to 32 inches tall. Base the height of your lamp on the height and size of your bedside tables and bed. For 24- to 30-inch nightstands, opt for a lamp that is 27
I find the most comfortable height is halfway between the top of my hips and the top of my shoulders, so I really do not understand how women can be comfortable changing their babies on the bed-unless an American bed is one hell of a lot taller than an Aussie bed! I don't know my conversions-I'm 170cm tall. Seems like most changing tables and 3 drawer dressers are anywhere from 35-41 inches tall, which seems like it would be too tall.
How tall does a dresser need to be to use as changing table (to avoid back strain)? I'm 5'5 and my husband is 5'11 and we are hoping to use a dresser we already have for a changing table. It seems like most changing tables are around 36-38 inches tall. I have the changing pad on a shorter dresser and the salesman who sold me the furniture tried to talk me into a taller dresser but I'm short (5'0) and have no problem with the shorter height. Michelle I.