(1) Place where an organism or a biological population normally lives or occurs. (2) The location or environment where an organism (or a thing) is most likely to be found, e.g. the body part of the host of a parasite as in the scalp of the host is the habitat of a head louse. 
Habitat. Habitat is an ecological or environmental area that is inhabited by a particular species of animal, plant, or other type of organism. It is the natural environment in which an organism lives, or the physical environment that surrounds a species population. 
Full Definition of HABITAT. 1. a: the place or environment where a plant or animal naturally or normally lives and grows b: the typical place of residence of a person or a group c: a housing for a controlled physical environment in which people can live under surrounding inhospitable conditions (as under the sea). 2
1. the natural environment of an organism; place that is natural for the life and growth of an organism: a jungle habitat. 2. the place where one is usu. found. 3. a special environment for living in over an extended period, as an underwater research vessel. Noun. 1. habitat-the type of environment in which an organism or group normally lives or occurs; a marine habitat; he felt safe on his home grounds. home ground.
Translations for 'habitat'. 1  British English: habitat The habitat of an animal or plant is the natural environment in which it normally lives or grows. 2  NOUNIn its natural habitat, the hibiscus will grow up to 25ft. 3  Brazilian Portuguese: habitat. 
Search also in: Web News Encyclopedia Images. habitat (habitats plural) The habitat of an animal or plant is the natural environment in which it normally lives or grows. n-var usu supp N In its natural habitat, the hibiscus will grow up to 25ft... 
habitat. n. 1. (Biology) the environment in which an animal or plant normally lives or grows. 2. (Sociology) the place in which a person, group, class, etc, is normally found. [C18: from Latin: it inhabits, from habitāre to dwell, from habēre to have]. Noun. 1. habitat-the type of environment in which an organism or group normally lives or occurs; a marine habitat; he felt safe on his home grounds. home ground.
noun. The camels habitat is the desert. The camels habitat is the desert. The definition of a habitat is the natural environment of someone or something. 1  An example of habitat is the desert to a camel. 2  An example of habitat is the library to law students. 
A habitat is an ecological or environmental area that is inhabited by human, a particular species of animal, plant, or other type of organism. A place where a living thing lives is its habitat. It is a place where it can find food, shelter, protection and mates for reproduction. It is the natural environment in which an organism lives, or the physical environment that surrounds a species population. A habitat is not necessarily a geographic area—for a parasitic organism it is the body of its host, part of the host's body such as the digestive tract, or a cell within the host's body.
1. a. The natural environment in which a species or group of species lives: good coyote habitat; managing wildlife habitat. b. A particular kind of natural environment: woodland and prairie habitats. c. An artificial environment created for an animal to live in: the lion habitat at the zoo. Noun. 1. habitat-the type of environment in which an organism or group normally lives or occurs; a marine habitat; he felt safe on his home grounds. home ground.