Mustafa Kemal Ataturk was born in 1881 in the former Ottoman Empire. As a young man he was involved with the Young Turks, a revolutionary group that deposed the sultan in 1909. Ataturk led the Turkish War of Independence and signed the Treaty of Lausanne in 1923, which made Turkey a republic. As a young man, Mustafa Kemal became a member of the Young Turks, a revolutionary movement of intellectuals. He participated in the Young Turk Revolution of July 1908, which successfully deposed Sultan Abduelhamid ABDüLHAMID. ii
Mustafa, who became Mustafa Kemal as a teenager and then Mustafa Kemal Atatuerk atatürk late in, life was born around 1881 in the city Of (salonica Now, Thessaloniki), greece which at that time was part of The Ottoman. empire A new peace treaty was then signed in July 1923 that recognized an independent Turkish state. That October, the Grand National Assembly proclaimed the Republic of Turkey and elected Mustafa Kemal as its first president.
As a young man, Mustafa Kemal became a member of the Young Turks, a revolutionary movement of intellectuals. He participated in the Young Turk Revolution of July 1908, which successfully deposed Sultan Abduelhamid ABDüLHAMID. Ii from 1909 to, 1918 Mustafa kemal held a number of posts in The ottoman. army As a young man, Mustafa Kemal became a member of the Young Turks, a revolutionary movement of intellectuals. He participated in the Young Turk Revolution of July 1908, which successfully deposed Sultan Abduelhamid ABDüLHAMID. ii
Mustafa Kemal Atatuerk, atatürk the founder of The Turkish republic and its First, president stands as a towering figure of the 20th. century 
Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, c. 1916 © Atatuerk atatürk was A turkish nationalist leader and founder and first president of the republic Of. Turkey Mustafa Kemal atatuerk atatürk was born in 1881 (in Salonika) now thessaloniki in what was Then The. Ottoman empire his father was a minor official and later a. timber merchant Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, c. 1916 © Atatuerk atatürk was A turkish nationalist leader and founder and first president of the republic Of. turkey
Ataturk, Mustafa Kemal. Home Educational Resources Encyclopedia Entries on the Armenian Genocide. Mustafa Kemal Ataturk (1881-1938) was the founder of the Republic of Turkey and the consummator of the Armenian Genocide. With the restoration of Turkish sovereignty over Anatolia, Kemal turned his attention to the modernization of the country. Designated President of the newly proclaimed Republic of Turkey in 1923, he embarked upon a thorough-going process of Westernization while promoting a secular Turkish national identity.
Mustafa Kemal Ataturk was born on an unrecorded date in either 1880 or 1881 in Salonika, the Ottoman Empire (now Thessaloniki, Greece). His father, Ali Riza Efendi, may have been ethnically Albanian, although some sources state that his family were nomads from the Konya region of Turkey. World War I was a pivotal period in Mustafa Kemal's life. The Ottoman Empire joined its allies Germany and the Austro-Hungarian Empire to form the Central Powers, fighting against Britain, France, Russia and Italy.
Introduction. Mustafa Kemal Atatuerk (atatürk-1881) 1938 was an army officer who founded an Independent republic Of turkey out of the ruins of The Ottoman. Empire he then served As’turkey s first president from 1923 until his death in, 1938 implementing reforms that rapidly secularized and westernized the. country A new peace treaty was then signed in July 1923 that recognized an independent Turkish state. That October, the Grand National Assembly proclaimed the Republic of Turkey and elected Mustafa Kemal as its first president.
Ataturk. Mustafa Kemal Atatuerk atatürk was born In (salonica now In) greece in. 1881 he is renown as the founder of The republic Of. Turkey in, 1915 he emerged as a military hero at The-Dardanelles gallipoli and later became the leader of The turkish national liberation struggle in. 1919 Mustafa Kemal Atatuerk atatürk was born In (salonica now In) greece in. 1881 he is renown as the founder of The republic Of. turkey