San Francisco is decidedly a Northern California city and Los Angeles likewise a Southern California one, but areas in between do not often share their confidence in geographic identity. The US Geological Survey defines the geographic center of the state at a point near North Fork, California. The main population centers of Northern California include San Francisco Bay Area (which includes the cities of San Francisco, Oakland, and the largest city of the region, San Jose), and Sacramento (the state capital) as well as its metropolitan area.
California's Central Valley is a large, flat valley that dominates the geographical center of the U.S. state of California. It is 40 to 60 miles (60 to 100 km) wide and stretches approximately 450 miles (720 km) from north-northwest to south-southeast, inland from and parallel to the Pacific Ocean coast. 
California's geography is largely defined by its central feature — the Central Valley, a huge, fertile valley between the coastal mountain ranges and the Sierra Nevada. The main population centers of Northern California include San Francisco Bay Area (which includes the cities of San Francisco, Oakland, and the largest city of the region, San Jose), and Sacramento (the state capital) as well as its metropolitan area.
Find an overview of California geography, topography, geographic land regions, land areas, and major rivers. The Central and Southern California Coast and Valleys covers the central and southern coast of California, including the San Francisco Bay and extending to the Mexican border. In the interior it includes the Central Valley and foothills of the Sierra Nevada.
Population (1994): 31,431,000 (1st in size). State size: 158,706 square miles (3rd in size). State Capital: Sacramento (From the Spanish word Sacramento meaning The Blessed Sacrament.. Major cities: Sacramento, Los Angeles, San Francisco, San Jose and Oakland. Admission to union: The 31st State.
Covering an area of 163,696 sq mi (423,970 km 2), the U.S. state of California is geographically diverse. The Sierra Nevada, the fertile farmlands of the Central Valley, and the arid Mojave Desert of the south are some of the major geographic features of this U.S. state. The main population centers of Northern California include San Francisco Bay Area (which includes the cities of San Francisco, Oakland, and the largest city of the region, San Jose), and Sacramento (the state capital) as well as its metropolitan area.
The state of California covers a land area of 163,973 square miles and 7,734 square miles of water. California is the third largest state in the US and has over 1,200 miles of coastline. The state of California never ceases to amaze the tourist with its incredible geographic diversity. The northern part of the state is dotted with a number of rugged mountain ranges. The Klamath Mountains dominate the northwestern regions of California. The peaks of the Klamath Mountains vary from 6,000 to 8,000 feet in height. The mountains form small ranges and form a thickly forested region, punctuated by deep canyons. The Klamath, the Smith, and the Trinity traverse this mountainous region
California (map of California) is a state located in the western United States. It is the largest state in the union based on its population of over 35 million and it is the third largest state (behind Alaska and Texas) by land area. California is bordered to the north by Oregon, to the east by Nevada, to the southeast by Arizona, to the south by Mexico and the Pacific Ocean to the west. California's nickname is the Golden State.. To learn more about California, visit the state's official website and the About.com California Travel GuideSite. References. Infoplease.com. (n.d.). California: History, Geography, Population & State Facts-Infoplease.com. Retrieved from: http://www.infoplease.com/ipa/A0108187.html. Wikipedia. (22 June 2010).
Access California almanac, furnishing more details on the state geography, geographical and land regions, climate and weather, elevation, land areas, bordering states, and other statistical data. Covering an area of 163,696 sq mi (423,970 km2), California is geographically diverse. The Sierra Nevada, the fertile farmlands of the Central Valley, and the arid Mojave Desert of the south are some of the major geographic features of this U.S. state. The Central and Southern California Coast and Valleys covers the central and southern coast of California, including the San Francisco Bay and extending to the Mexican border. In the interior it includes the Central Valley and foothills of the Sierra Nevada.