The third ventricle is a narrow cavity that is located between the two halves of the brain. The third ventricle sends messages to and receives messages from the lateral ventricles, which are located in front of the third ventricle, and the aqueduct of the midbrain, which is located directly behind the third ventricle. The third ventricle is one of the four ventricles in the brain that communicate with one another. As with the other ventricles of the brain, it is filled with cerebrospinal fluid, which helps to protect the brain from injury and transport nutrients and waste.
The ventricular system is a set of four interconnected cavities (ventricles) in the brain, where the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) is produced. The ventricular system is continuous with the central canal of the spinal cord (from the fourth ventricle) allowing for the flow of CSF to circulate.
Brain ventricle: One of the communicating cavities within the brain. There are four ventricles: two lateral ventricles, the third ventricle, and the fourth ventricle. The lateral ventricles are in the cerebral hemispheres. Each lateral ventricle consists of a triangular central body and four horns. In front, the third ventricle communicates with the lateral ventricles, and in back it communicates with the aqueduct of the midbrain (the aqueduct of Sylvius). The fourth ventricle is the most inferior of the four ventricles of
Overview. The ventricles of the brain are a communicating network of cavities filled with cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and located within the brain parenchyma. The ventricular system is composed of 2 lateral ventricles, the third ventricle, the cerebral aqueduct, and the fourth ventricle (see the following images). The rest of the CSF production is the result of transependymal flow from the brain to the ventricles. CSF flows from the lateral ventricles, through the interventricular foramens, and into the third ventricle, cerebral aqueduct, and the fourth ventricle.
The third ventricle is part of a network of linked cavities in the brain that extend to form the central canal of the spinal cord. Third Ventricle: The third ventricle is a narrow cavity located between the two hemispheres of the diencephalon of the forebrain. The third ventricle is part of a network of linked cavities (cerebral ventricles) in the brain that extend to form the central canal of the spinal cord. The cerebral ventricles consist of the lateral ventricles, third ventricle and fourth ventricle. The ventricles contain cerebrospinal fluid which is produced by specialized epithelium located within the ventricles called the choroid plexus.
The 4th ventricle of brain is located in the brain stem, just in front of the cerebellum. It is connected to the third ventricle by a narrow canal, the cerebral aqueduct (aqueduct of Sylvius), which passes lengthwise through the brain stem. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The ventricular system is a set of four interconnected cavities (ventricles) in the brain, where the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) is produced. Within each ventricle is a region of choroid plexus, a network of ependymal cells involved in the production of CSF. The ventricular system is continuous with the central canal of the spinal cord (from the fourth ventricle) allowing for the flow of CSF to circulate.
All the four ventricles of the human brain develop from the central canal of the embryonic neural tube, usually during the first trimester of pregnancy. All the ventricles, the lateral, the third, and the fourth ventricle, are joined to one another. They are known as, lateral ventricles, third ventricle, and fourth ventricle. There are two lateral ventricles, known as right and the left ventricle, which are located within the cerebral hemisphere. The lateral ventricles are the largest ventricles of the brain. The brain ventricles are concerned with the production, as well as the circulation of cerebrospinal fluid. The main function of the Cerebrospinal fluid is to help cushion the brain and spinal cord from physical trauma
Fourth ventricle. Inside the brain, there are four cavities, called ventricles. The right and left lateral ventricles and the third and fourth ventricles compose the ventricular system. The fourth ventricle contains cerebrospinal fluid. It has a diamond shape and is located in the upper portion of the medulla. 