Histamine receptors are proteins situated in various parts of the body that bind with histamine to produce a specific effect on the organism. There are four known receptors, designated H1 - H4. The receptor that the histamine reacts with is dependant upon where the histamine is released in the body. Histamine action at these receptors stimulates the release of gastric acid, excess of which can result in gastroenteritis. These receptors are also found on heart, uterus and vascular smooth muscle cells. Histamine reacting with the receptor at these places encourages smooth muscle relaxation.
It is destroyed by the enzyme diamine oxidase (histiminase), which is also involved in the metabolism of other bioactive amines. Histamine is synthesized in all tissues, but is particularly abundant in skin, lung and gastrointestinal tract. Mast cells, which are present in many tissues, are a prominent source of histamine, but histamine is also secreted by a number of other immune cells. These effects also depend on which receptor is being bound by histamine; for example, the H2 receptor mediates bronchodilation. One of the first bioassays for histamine involved measuring contraction of guinea pig intestinal muscle.
Mast cells. Most histamine in the body is generated in granules in mast cells and in white blood cells called basophils and eosinophils. Mast cells are especially numerous at sites of potential injury — the nose, mouth, and feet, internal body surfaces, and blood vessels. Non-mast cell histamine is found in several tissues, including the brain, where it functions as a neurotransmitter. Another important site of histamine storage and release is the enterochromaffin-like (ECL) cell of the stomach.
: The histamine reaction in relation to the immune response (in both allergic reactions and immune reactions) serves two main functions: 1. It causes what is called “vasodilation.” Vasodilation occurs when the muscular walls that surround blood vessels are relaxed, causing the interior of the blood vessel to widen. 2. Histamine in Sleep: The body regulates the amount of histamine in circulation and maintains a careful balance. This is most important with keeping the body awake and alert. Antihistamines are known to cause drowsiness and sleep.
Histamine is involved in the inflammatory response and has a central role as a mediator of pruritus. Non-mast cell histamine is found in several tissues, including the brain, where it functions as a neurotransmitter. Another important site of histamine storage and release is the enterochromaffin-like (ECL) cell of the stomach.
As part of an immune response to foreign pathogens, histamine is produced by basophils and by mast cells found in nearby connective tissues. Histamine increases the permeability of the capillaries to white blood cells and some proteins, to allow them to engage pathogens in the infected tissues. Non-mast cell histamine is found in several tissues, including the brain, where it functions as a neurotransmitter. Another important site of histamine storage and release is the enterochromaffin-like (ECL) cell of the stomach.
Histamine is a type of chemical that is found within the human body. It is normally produced as a reaction to a substance. If someone is allergic to a food or plant, their body releases histamine and inflammation develop. Other symptoms like water retention can develop during the allergic reaction. It is involved in the body’s immune response to invaders or allergens. This chemical also works as a neurotransmitter and causes an inflammatory response. Typically, histamine levels increase when someone is around something that they are allergic to. Common allergens include hay fever, dairy and dust mites.
Histamine Intolerance. Histamine is a chemical which occurs naturally in certain foods. This is also one of the chemicals that is released in the body as part of an allergic reaction, causing the typical itching, sneezing, wheezing and swelling allergy symptoms. Certain foods (even food that is low in histamine) can stimulate the release of histamine from mast cells in your body (a type of immune cell). These foods include: 1  Bananas. 2  Tomatoes. 3  Strawberries. 4  Nuts.
In the human body, histamine is an organic nitrogen compound. It is involved in the body’s immune response to invaders or allergens. This chemical also works as a neurotransmitter and causes an inflammatory response. Typically, histamine levels increase when someone is around something that they are allergic to. Common allergens include hay fever, dairy and dust mites.
When a neuron releases molecules of a chemical neurotransmitter, it passes from what is called the “presynaptic nerve terminal” or the end of the neuron, through the “synapse” or the gap between neurons, and is finally taken up by a “receptor” area on the receiving neuron. Histamine in Sleep: The body regulates the amount of histamine in circulation and maintains a careful balance. This is most important with keeping the body awake and alert. Antihistamines are known to cause drowsiness and sleep.