A white dwarf is a star that has exhausted most of its fuel. White dwarfs are one of the densest forms of matter, being 200,000 times as dense as the earth. They are formed from small to medium-sized stars. A very few white dwarfs, formed from larger stars, have atmospheres that are rich in oxygen. These white dwarfs have burned the carbon they once contained and the oxygen in their atmosphere is what remains of their cores.
Atmosphere. Because of its density, the surface gravity of a white dwarf is very great. The force of this gravity causes the heavier atoms in its atmosphere to sink, while the lighter atoms remain at the surface. As a result, white dwarfs have atmospheres that are composed of hydrogen or helium, two of the lightest elements. A very few white dwarfs, formed from larger stars, have atmospheres that are rich in oxygen. These white dwarfs have burned the carbon they once contained and the oxygen in their atmosphere is what remains of their cores.
A white dwarf, also called a degenerate dwarf, is a stellar remnant composed mostly of electron-degenerate matter. A white dwarf is very dense: its mass is comparable to that of the Sun, and its volume is comparable to that of Earth. A white dwarf's faint luminosity comes from the emission of stored thermal energy. The nearest known white dwarf is Sirius B, at 8.6 light years, the smaller component of the Sirius binary sta
Search. A white dwarf is what stars like the Sun become after they have exhausted their nuclear fuel. Near the end of its nuclear burning stage, this type of star expels most of its outer material, creating a planetary nebula. Only the hot core of the star remains. An Earth-sized white dwarf has a density of 1 x 10 9 kg/m 3. Earth itself has an average density of only 5.4 x 10 3 kg/m 3. That means a white dwarf is 200,000 times as dense. This makes white dwarfs one of the densest collections of matter, surpassed only by neutron stars.
A typical white dwarf has a carbon and oxygen mass similar to the Sun, but is much smaller in size (similar to the Earth). It is much hotter (25,000 K), but because of its small size its luminosity is low. 
Let's assume for the moment that there is a very large population of white dwarfs in the halo. As mentioned above, most stars end up as white dwarfs, but the lowest mass stars (so-called M and K dwarfs, or red dwarfs) take an extremely long time to evolve from their stellar states to the white dwarf stage. The outer part of a white dwarf contains helium and hydrogen. It is the tremendous gravitational force associated with these dense stars that stratifies the material within them, with the heaviest elements residing at the deepest depths in the star. The atmospheres of white dwarfs are only about ten meters thick.
by Jean Tate on September 23, 2009. A black dwarf is a white dwarf that has cooled down to the temperature of the cosmic microwave background, and so is invisible. Unlike red dwarfs, brown dwarfs, and white dwarfs, black dwarfs are entirely hypothetical. Not a black dwarf ... yet (white dwarf Sirius B). 
Usually, therefore, white dwarfs are composed of carbon and oxygen. If the mass of the progenitor is between 8 and 10.5 solar masses (M☉), the core temperature is sufficient to fuse carbon but not neon, in which case an oxygen-neon– magnesium white dwarf may be formed. A white dwarf is very dense: its mass is comparable to that of the Sun, and its volume is comparable to that of Earth. A white dwarf's faint luminosity comes from the emission of stored thermal energy.