Measurable precipitation occurs on about 100 days per year. The number days on which. amounts exceed 0.5 inch varies from about 15 days in the northwest to 25 days in the southeast. The greatest one day rainfall is 13.18 inches at Atlantic on June 14, 1998.
Get Your Own Sequoia.I did. This calculator is useful when you need to determine how many gallons of annual rainfall are received by soil for a specific geographic region. With this calculator you will need to know how many inches of annual rainfall a geographic region receives per year.
Nevada, the driest state, has an average rainfall of only 9 inches per year. Total annual rainfall for Florida typically varies (sometimes greatly) from one part of the state to another, from one season to another, and from one year to the next.
Each place has a total for the amount of precipitation it usually receives in a year. Most locations also have information on the number of days with wet weather. That includes the days when precipitation amounts to 0.01 inches (0.25 millimetres) or more. The annual precipitation totals are averages based on weather data collected from 1981 to 2010 for the NOAA National Climatic Data Center.
Gallons of water received annually by one square acre of soil. Get Your Own Sequoia.I did. This calculator is useful when you need to determine how many gallons of annual rainfall that you must take from a water source in order to simulate the annual rainfall of a different geographic region.
The annual precipitation totals are averages based on weather data collected from 1981 to 2010 for the NOAA National Climatic Data Center. You can jump to a separate table for each region of the state: Eastern Wisconsin, Southwest Wisconsin, Northern Wisconsin and the Lake Superior Shore.
1 The average annual snowfall in Minnesota varies from 36 inches in the southwest to more than 70 inches along the Lake Superior snow belt.. 2  Although snow is an important component of Minnesota's hydrology, the water found in the snow comprises less than 20 percent of the total precipitation received annually.
Each place has a total for the amount of precipitation it usually receives in a year. Most locations also have information on the number of days with wet weather. That includes the days when precipitation amounts to 0.01 inches (0.25 millimetres) or more.