Optic neuritis (ON) is a condition in which your optic nerve (the nerve that carries visual information from your eye to your brain) becomes inflamed. Inflammation causes vision loss—although usually in only one eye. As you recover and the inflammation goes away, your vision may return. 
Optic neuritis is an inflammation that affects the myelin lining of the optic nerve, which transmits visual stimuli to the brain. The optic nerve is actually a nerve tract of axons that originate in the ganglion cells of the retina. Nerve tracts are the information pathways in the brain. 1 Other causes include infections, autoimmune disease, and injury to the optic nerve. 2  The symptoms of optic neuritis include vision loss, reduced color vision, and pain on movement of the eye with recovery over weeks to a month, in most cases.
1 Optic neuritis is an inflammation of the optic nerve, often affecting young adults in one eye. 2  Optic neuritis is frequently associated with multiple sclerosis. 3  Other causes include infections, autoimmune disease, and injury to the optic nerve. 1 Other causes include infections, autoimmune disease, and injury to the optic nerve. 2  The symptoms of optic neuritis include vision loss, reduced color vision, and pain on movement of the eye with recovery over weeks to a month, in most cases.
Optic neuritis (ON) is a condition in which the nerve to the eye (the optic nerve) becomes inflamed or irritated. Inflammation refers to a process in which white blood cells and chemical messengers go to an area of the body to stimulate healing or to attack viruses or foreign material. 
1 Optic neuritis is frequently associated with multiple sclerosis. 2  Other causes include infections, autoimmune disease, and injury to the optic nerve. 3  The symptoms of optic neuritis include vision loss, reduced color vision, and pain on movement of the eye with recovery over weeks to a month, in most cases. 1 Other causes include infections, autoimmune disease, and injury to the optic nerve. 2
Please Share! Optic neuritis is inflammation of the optic nerve, caused by damage to and loss of the protective sheath (myelin) surrounding this nerve that is so vital for good vision. Demyelinating optic neuritis is another term for this eye condition. Vision symptoms from optic neuritis can include blurring and blind spots. 
Optic Neuritis. Optic neuritis is caused by inflammation of the optic nerve, which is located between the back of the eye and the brain. The optic nerve is the only pathway of information from the nerve cells in the retina of the eye to the nerve cells of the brain. 
Optic neuritis facts. 1  Optic neuritis is an inflammation of the optic nerve, often affecting young adults in one eye. 2  Optic neuritis is frequently associated with multiple sclerosis. 3  Other causes include infections, autoimmune disease, and injury to the optic nerve. 1 Other causes include infections, autoimmune disease, and injury to the optic nerve. 2  The symptoms of optic neuritis include vision loss, reduced color vision, and pain on movement of the eye with recovery over weeks to a month, in most cases.
Causes. The exact cause of optic neuritis is unknown. However, optic neuritis is believed to develop when the immune system mistakenly targets the substance covering your optic nerve (myelin), resulting in inflammation and damage to the myelin. 
Optic nerve inflammation — or optic neuritis — occurs when the eye’s optic nerve becomes irritated and enlarged. This condition often results in eye pain and possible vision loss. Underlying diseases like diabetes, immune disorders, and multiple sclerosis usually lead to the inflammation. 