Slovak language is an Indo-European language used in Slovak Republic, Czech Republic, USA and in other countries (almost 6 million people). 
Slovak is the official language of Slovakia where it is spoken by approximately 5.51 million people (2014). Slovak speakers are also found in the United States, the Czech Republic, Argentina, Serbia, Ireland, Romania, Poland, Canada, Hungary, Croatia, the United Kingdom, Australia, Austria, and Ukraine. Romanian words entered the Slovak language in the course of the so-called Wallachian colonization in the 14th–16th century when sheep breeding became common in Slovak mountains. Many of today's Slovak rustic-pastoral words like bača (shepherd; Rmn.
Home News Alphabets Languages Search. Slovak is a Western Slavonic language spoken by about 5.6 million people in Slovakia and also in Canada, Hungary, Poland, Romania, Ukraine and the USA. Slovak is closely related to Czech, Polish, and Sorbian. Slovak (slovenčina). Slovak is a Western Slavonic language spoken by about 5.6 million people in Slovakia and also in Canada, Hungary, Poland, Romania, Ukraine and the USA.
The only official language in the Czech Republic is Czech, which is a Slavonic language like Slovak, Polish, Serbian, Russian, Croatian and Bulgarian. 
The Slavic Languages. The Slavic languages, also called Slavonic languages is a group of similar languages of the Slavic people. It is spoken in the most of Eastern Europe, Balkans and Central Europe. As these languages are very closely related, we understand well Czechs, Polish and other Slavic language speakers. 
Slovak. The Slovak language is spoken by approximately 7 million people, most of them residing in Slovakia. Slovak is also spoken in a number of other Eastern European countries including Croatia and Bulgaria, as well as by immigrant groups in the United States and Canada. Until the mid-19th century, both Czech and Slovak speakers used a written Czech language. In the mid-1800s, however, a distinct Slovak literary language developed based on the dialect spoken in central Slovakia.
Slovak is spoken in Slovakia. It is closely related to Czech, and is part of the Western Slavic languages under the Indo-European branch. Slovak is related to Polish, Silesian … , Sorbian, and Kashubian. Apparently Czechs and Slovaks can understand each other without needing to learn the other language. Czech and Slovakia are two different countries since 1993. In Czech Republic they speak Czech and in Slovakia they speak Slovak, but the languages are very similar so a lot of … people from those countries are able to understand each other. 3 people found this useful.
Slovenia has been a meeting area of the Slavic, Germanic, Romance, and Uralic linguistic and cultural regions, which makes it the most complex meeting point of languages in Europe. The official and national language of Slovenia is Slovene, which is spoken by a large majority of the population. Czech and Slovak, which used to be the fourth largest minority language in Slovenia prior to World War II (after Italian, German, Hungarian, Croatian and Serbian), is now the native languages of a few hundred Slovenian residents.