Freiberg disease, also known as a Freiberg infraction, is a form of avascular necrosis in the metatarsal. It generally develops in the second metatarsal, but can occur in any metatarsal. Physical stress causes repeated microfractures where the middle of the metatarsal meets the growth plate. 
Freiberg’s Infarction is the term applied to the condition when it occurs in a child. It is likely that the excessive pressure causes a small fracture to occur within the cartilage growth plate that exists between the long shaft of the metatarsal bone and the head, cutting off the blood flow. Freiberg’s Infraction. Freiberg’s Infraction is the terminology used in the adult condition where the x-ray signs are very similar. It has been shown that, while many people have two or three arteries that can supply blood to the area, some have only one making complete loss of blood flow more possible.
It is not a severe widespread disease, but a condition whereby the head of the metatarsal becomes misshapen and loses its nice round smooth contour. As the end of the bone loses its shape it gradually turns into a “square peg“ trying to fit into a “round socket”. 
Freiberg’s Disease. Note the flattened tip of the 2nd Metatarsal bone. Freiberg’s disease refers to a painful condition mostly affecting the 2nd metatarsal head. This is the bony ‘knuckle’ in the ball of the foot behind the 2nd toe. Freiberg’s Infraction. Freiberg’s Infraction is the terminology used in the adult condition where the x-ray signs are very similar. It has been shown that, while many people have two or three arteries that can supply blood to the area, some have only one making complete loss of blood flow more possible.
Freiberg Infraction. Freiberg infraction is a condition that affects the metatarsal bones of the foot. It most commonly affects the second metatarsal (the bone underneath the second toe) but it can also affect the third or fourth metatarsal. Essentially, the rounded end or ‘head’ of the metatarsal bone collapses and flattens out. Typically, it occurs in young female athletes between ages 12 and 15.
Synonyms: Freiberg's infraction. This is a rare disease characterised by osteonecrosis of the second metatarsal head, most commonly seen in teenage girls. It was first described in 1914 by Alfred H. Freiberg. It is difficult to ascertain the true incidence of Freiberg's disease, as many cases may resolve spontaneously before treatment has been sought
Causes of Freiberg's infraction is usually due to a longer second metatarsal. More often it is noticed in patients in there 2nd decade of life. As the bones are fully developed the effect of the longer metatarsal takes more of the weight while walking/running. Symptoms of a Freiberg's infraction is typically pain under the second metatarsal (ball) of the foot.
Anti-inflammatory oral medications or an injection of medication and local anesthetic may be used to reduce the pain and swelling. Freiberg's infraction is an osteochondrosis of the second metatarsal head in the foot. Symptoms of a Freiberg's infraction is typically pain under the second metatarsal (ball) of the foot. The patient usually has a longer second metatarsal or toe than the others and may have had previous stress fractures of this bone
Freiberg disease: Introduction. Freiberg disease: A condition where progressive degeneration of the head of a toe bone (usually the second toe) results in foot pain. More detailed information about the symptoms, causes, and treatments of Freiberg disease is available below