A request for proposal (RFP) is a solicitation, often made through a bidding process, by an agency or company interested in procurement of a commodity, service or valuable asset, to potential suppliers to submit business proposals. Similar requests include a request for quotation (RFQ), whereby the vendor may simply be looking for a price quote, and a request for information (RFI), where the customer needs more information from vendors before submitting an RFP. An RFI is typically followed by an RFP or RFQ.
A purchasing document is an instrument used by Purchasing to procure materials or services. The following list shows the various external purchasing documents available in the standard SAP System. (Note: purchase requisitions are not included on this list because they are usually regarded as. The header contains information relevant to the whole document. The items specify the materials or services to be procured. For example, information about the vendor and the document number is contained in the document header, and the material description and the order quantity are specified in each item.
DEFINITION of 'Vendor'. The party in the supply chain that makes goods and services available to companies or consumers. The term vendor is typically used to describe the entity that is paid for the goods that are provided, rather than the manufacturer of the goods. A vendor, however, can operate both as the supplier of goods (seller) and the manufacturer. Also known as a supplier. Next Up
Sample Vendor Registration Form Note: The pages in this file illustrate the information that will be asked to the vendor in a step by step manner during the registration process. 
Part of the Business terms glossary: A vendor, also known as a supplier, is an individual or company that sells goods or services to someone else in the economic production chain. Tier 1 vendors may be both manufacturers and value-added resellers (VAR s). A tier 2 vendor is a smaller and less well-known provider that is often also limited in its geographic coverage as well.
All vendors wishing to participate in the competitive bid process and receive purchase orders from the State of West Virginia exceeding $2,500 in aggregate across all state agencies are required to complete the Vendor Registration and Disclosure Statement (WV‐1 form) and pay a $125.00 annual fee. Should you need additional information relating to vendor registration, please visit www.state.wv.us/admin/purchase/VendorReg.html. Questions concerning this Vendor Registration and Disclosure Statement may be directed to the Purchasing Division at (304) 558‐2311.
Retailers are vendors of products to consumers. In information technology as well as in other industries, the term is commonly applied to suppliers of goods and services to other companies. A tier 1 vendor is a large and well-known vendor, often enjoying national or international recognition and acceptance. Tier 1 vendors may be both manufacturers and value-added resellers (VAR s). A tier 2 vendor is a smaller and less well-known provider that is often also limited in its geographic coverage as well.
All vendors are encouraged to start the registration process at level 1. Only vendors interested in contracts up to $40,000 should register at Basic level. After completion of registration at level 1, vendors can upgrade to level 2 registration at any time. Registration Assistance & Support: An interactive UNGM guide to supplier registration. Meeting the Registration Criteria: It is highly recommended that your company prepare in advance to meet the registration criteria for applying on-line in order to efficiently process your application.
Definition. An electronic or paper file containing relevant information on a given vendor. This may include contracts and other agreements, quotes, specification documents, purchase order history, payment history, D&B credit check information, warranty documentation, form W-9, etc. 