Shows what I know.. Post gathered some of the top studio musicians in the area, including Glen Campbell and Hal Blaine, to do the backing and used tricks innovated by The Beatles, like phasing and backward mastering, to give the song the trippy feel that was popular at the time. This was released in 1968 to a lukewarm reception, but when the group appeared on the Smothers Brothers show to lip-sync in a psychedelic video, the song shot into the top 10. According to Kenny Rogers, Jimi Hendrix once told him that this was his all-time favorite song.
One of the funniest moments in movie history features The Dude (Jeff Bridges) doing a Busby Berkelely dance rountine with viking maidens in a bowling alley to Just Dropped In to See What Condition my Condition was In. This was released in 1968 to a lukewarm reception, but when the group appeared on the Smothers Brothers show to lip-sync in a psychedelic video, the song shot into the top 10. According to Kenny Rogers, Jimi Hendrix once told him that this was his all-time favorite song.
Just Dropped In ... was a hit for Kenny Rogers and the First Edition (with Kenny Rogers on lead vocals) in 1968. It was Rogers' first top ten hit in the Billboard charts, and got the group their first national TV audience on The Smothers Brothers Comedy Hour. Another version was released on the Deluxe Edition of Tom Jones Spirit in the Room in 2012. Covered by Supergrass as a B-Side to their 1995 single Alright/Time. Also covered by melodic death metal band Children of Bodom on their Blooddrunk album as a bonus track.
Eddy Arnold had a No. 1 Country hit with Here Comes the Rain, Baby, Andy Williams had a No. 4 Easy Listening hit with  Sweet Memories , and Kenny Rogers and the First Edition had a No. 5 Pop/Rock hit with  Just Dropped In (To See What Condition My Condition Was In) . The group opened for several famous performers, such as Sam Cooke and Johnny Cash. Although Mickey tried to make a living from his music by singing in clubs, he put his musical career on hold at age 19 when he joined the Air Force.
When the group needed another song to complete the album, Rogers brought in the Jerry Lee Lewis version of Just Dropped In (To See What Condition My Condition Was In), which Post described as Dope and Roll.. They decided to perform it as a psychedelic song, and it became a hit and helped establish Rogers as a star. This was released in 1968 to a lukewarm reception, but when the group appeared on the Smothers Brothers show to lip-sync in a psychedelic video, the song shot into the top 10. According to Kenny Rogers, Jimi Hendrix once told him that this was his all-time favorite song.
Please try again later. Before he was roasting chicken or crooning country tunes, Kenny Rogers led The First Edition and hit #5 on the Billboard chart in 1968 with this strange psychedelic rock song.  1 Just Dropped In (To See What Condition My Condition Is In) by Kenny Rogers & The First Edition (Google Play • AmazonMP3 • iTunes). 
The track was covered by Bettye LaVette on Karen Records (KA 1544) in 1968 as the flip side to the track Get Away. On that release it was called What Condition My Condition Is In. Jim Turner of the comedy troupe Duck's Breath Mystery Theatre performed (as his character Randee of the Redwoods) a surprisingly faithful version on the Ducks' 1986 album Born To Be Tiled. Another version was released on the Deluxe Edition of Tom Jones Spirit in the Room in 2012. Covered by Supergrass as a B-Side to their 1995 single Alright/Time. Also covered by melodic death metal band Children of Bodom on their Blooddrunk album as a bonus track.
Best Answer: Kenny Rogers in the first edition. Written by Mickey Newbury. Published by Acuff-Rose Music, Inc. (BMI) Courtesy of MCA Records. Under license from Universal Music Special Markets. Just Dropped In Lyrics To See What Condition My Condition Was In) (Mickey Newbury) (Yeah, yeah, oh-yeah, what condition my condition was in) I woke up this mornin' with the sundown shinin' in I found my mind in a brown paper bag, but then... 
Written by country music outlaw Mickey Newberry as a song about junkies, this was first recorded by Jerry Lee Lewis on a Country album in 1967, but he vetoed releasing it as a single. This was released in 1968 to a lukewarm reception, but when the group appeared on the Smothers Brothers show to lip-sync in a psychedelic video, the song shot into the top 10. According to Kenny Rogers, Jimi Hendrix once told him that this was his all-time favorite song.