Learn more about this article. The parasitic nematode worms known as human pinworms (Enterobius vermicularis, formerly known as Oxyuris vermicularis) infect humans worldwide, although pinworm infection (enterobiasis) seems to be more common in temperate than in tropical countries. 
This article is about the nematode of the family Enterobius, known as pinworm in the US. For the different nematode known as pinworm in the rest of the world, see Strongyloides stercoralis. The pinworm (genus Enterobius), also known as threadworm (in the United Kingdom and Australia) or seatworm, is a parasitic worm. It is a nematode (roundworm) and a common intestinal parasite or helminth, especially in humans. 
ENTEROBIUS VERMICULARIS. A pinworm (threadworm) is a small, thin, white roundworm (nematode) called Enterobius vermicularis that sometimes lives in the colon and rectum of humans. Pinworms are about the length of a staple. What is a pinworm? A pinworm (threadworm) is a small, thin, white roundworm (nematode) called Enterobius vermicularis that sometimes lives in the colon and rectum of humans.
Casual Agent: The nematode (roundworm) Enterobius vermicularis (previously Oxyuris vermicularis) also called human pinworm. (Adult females: 8 to 13 mm, adult male: 2 to 5 mm. ) Humans are considered to be the only hosts of E. vermicularis. 
Enterobius Vermicularis-Pinworm. Human pinworm, Enterobius vermicularis, is the most common parasitic worm infection in the United States and Western Europe. Pinworms are easily transmitted from human to human and are particularly common in children. Luckily the disease, enterobiasis, causes only anal itching. 
ENTEROBIUS VERMICULARIS. Pinworm infection is caused by a small, thin, white roundworm called Enterobius vermicularis. Although pinworm infection can affect all people, it most commonly occurs among children, institutionalized persons, and household members of persons with pinworm infection. Pinworm infection is treatable with over-the-counter or prescription medication, but reinfection, which occurs easily, should be prevented. A pinworm (threadworm) is a small, thin, white roundworm (nematode) called Enterobius vermicularis that sometimes lives in the colon and rectum of humans.
ShareCompartir. Pinworm infection is caused by a small, thin, white roundworm called Enterobius vermicularis. Although pinworom infection can affect all people, it most commonly occurs among children, institutionalized persons, and household members of persons with pinworm infection. 
Pinworm infection is caused by Enterobius vermicularis. E vermicularis is a white slender nematode with a pointed tail. In humans, they reside in the cecum, appendix, and ascending colon. Background. Pinworm infection is caused by Enterobius vermicularis. E vermicularis is a white slender nematode with a pointed tail. In humans, they reside in the cecum, appendix, and ascending colon. Female pinworms are 8-13 mm long, and males are 2-5 mm long.