How to Paint With Gouache. Gouache is a type of paint, and its main appeal is that it is water-based. Other than that, it is very similar to acrylics. However, the fact that it's water-based renders it different uses than acrylics. It could also be described as concentrated watercolors, which makes it heavier and more opaque.
Gouache (gwash – rhymes with squash), also called opaque watercolor, is paint that is heavier than traditional transparent watercolors. Its use is centuries old. From the Italian “guazzo”, meaning “water paint”, it appears to go back some 800 years, used originally to illuminate manuscripts.
As a side note, a type of paint that is commonly confused with gouache is poster paint. While poster paint shares a somewhat similar consistency, it is typically made with much cheaper materials, and should not be considered a substitute for gouache.
Gouache (pronounced “gwosh,” in your Frenchiest accent please) is a type of paint which is centuries old, and yet relatively few people even know of its existence today. It’s a medium worth discovering, with characteristics of both acrylic and watercolor that can be used to create vibrant, luminous works of art.
Gouache [p] (/ɡuːˈaeʃ/ ; [ɡuːˈæʃ]), ˈɡwaʃ also spelled, guache is a type of paint in the category watermedia consisting of, pigment a binding (agent usually gum), arabic and sometimes added inert, material designed to be used in an opaque. Method it also refers to paintings that use this opaque. method
Definition: Gouache is an water-soluble paint that is opaque, rather than transparent like watercolor. Gouache and watercolor paints can be used together. White is one of the paint colors available in gouache, unlike watercolors, where the paper is preserved, or kept pristine, as the white in the painting.
Gouache is an opaque watercolor paint. Whereas transparent watercolors allow you to see the white of the paper below the paint, gouache can be applied in solid colors. This allows an artist to paint in layers from dark to light.