http://www.chacha.com/question/what-is-considered-processed-meat. Processed meat include breakfast sausage, hot dogs, jerkies, bacon, lunch meat, and even meats in canned soup products. Process meat can cause cancer because it contains sodium nitrite which is a precursor to highly carcinogenic nitrosamine..
They often come in a box or a jar, are can be high in added sugars, low in fiber and whole grains, processed with sodium, high in fat or include trans fat and lots of saturated fat. While snack foods, candy, cookies and crackers are certainly considered processed foods, “healthy” foods can fall into this category too. Here is a list of 6 common processed foods that you can easily make a healthier homemade version of: — Hilary Meyer, Associate Food Editor. Next: 1. Salad Dressing 1  ». 1. 2  2. 3  3.
Choose natural cheeses instead of cheese food or cheese products. *Processed meat is defined as any meat preserved by smoking, curing or salting, or with the addition of chemical preservatives; examples include bacon, salami, sausages, hot dogs or processed deli or lunch-eon meats.
AICR/WCRF’s expert report and its updates define processed meat as “meat preserved by smoking, curing or salting, or addition of chemical preservatives.” Ham, bacon, sausages, hot dogs and yes, deli meats, are all considered processed meat. Research suggests that regularly eating even small amounts of cold cuts, bacon, sausage and hot dogs increase colorectal cancer risk, which is why AICR recommends avoiding these foods, except for special occasions. The risk continues to rise as processed meat consumption increases.
List of Processed Foods. This is a list of processed foods by type (not by brand). It is not a complete list. Many new food products are marketed every year. You can evaluate how processed a food is by reading the label's ingredients list to see the names, number, and type of ingredients. A large number of ingredients, with names that you don't recognize, indicates a highly processed food. More generally, virtually every food that has a label is processed. Virtually every food that comes in a box, bag, jar, or can is processed. For more information see the pages on processed food and whole foods.
Bacon, ham, cold cuts – we get more questions about processed meats than any other type of food. It’s not surprising since the headlines can change with every new study. So we put together some answers to your most-asked questions. Research suggests that regularly eating even small amounts of cold cuts, bacon, sausage and hot dogs increase colorectal cancer risk, which is why AICR recommends avoiding these foods, except for special occasions. The risk continues to rise as processed meat consumption increases.
Breakfast cereals and commercial orange juice can be considered processed foods. The definition of what constitutes a processed food can vary slightly, but it usually refers to foods that are packaged in boxes, cans or bags. These foods need to be processed extensively to be edible and are not found as is in nature. These oils, and foods containing them, are highly processed. Trans fat, which is the result of the hydrogenation of vegetable oils, is also a processed food.
The amount of salt/sodium typically added to fresh meat is not enough for it to be considered processed meats. It is considerably less salt than is in luncheon meats. For example, the “enhanced” chicken breast meat would contain about 150 mg sodium per 3 oz, whereas 3 oz of deli chicken can contain more than 700 mg. As for meat in canned soups, plain chicken or beef, for example would not be considered processed meat, but if it is processed before going into the soup – like sausage, ham or bacon – then it would be considered processed meat.
The evidence is specifically related to processed meats and does not address processed plant-based burgers like soy burgers. Vegetarian burgers are less likely to contain added nitrites (you can check the label) and they wouldn’t contain heme iron (found only in meat). As for meat in canned soups, plain chicken or beef, for example would not be considered processed meat, but if it is processed before going into the soup – like sausage, ham or bacon – then it would be considered processed meat.