1 Beans are good antioxidants due to the fact that they contain vitamin C. They may not be as effective as fruits or bell peppers in this regard, but a serving of mung beans will help you meet the daily requirement of this nutrient.
1 You should but lots of vegetables in your mung beans and rice.”A good cleansing diet that gives plenty of nourishment. 2  Good for the kidneys, colon, and digestive organs, or when food is not being digested thoroughly by the intestines. 3  Good diet for winter (make it spicy). 4  May have fruit in between meals for snack.
I searched the same question since it's nutrition month celebration and I saw my family preparing meat so I laugh when they prepare 'humba'. I told them that when you want protein for nutrition month cook 'munggo' or mung bean. They answered back and told me that it is the main cause of arthritis.
Mung Beans & Rice Cleansing Diet. 1  Eat only mung beans and rice for 30 days as a mono-diet. 2  Cook with lots of vegetables. 3  Yogi Bhajan says,” You Americans are rich. 4  You should but lots of vegetables in your mung beans and rice.”A good cleansing diet that gives plenty of nourishment.
To my surprise, it is even a cure for damp and heat arthritis. The thought of mung bean as a cause of arthritis is an old myth and total lie since scientific community already solved the answer.
They are also consumed in India as a snack, and the bean sprouts are a vegetable accompaniment to a number of dishes. Mung beans are the basis of the flour used to make the wrapping of spring rolls in Vietnam and its starch forms the basis of the cellophane noodles used in various Asian cuisines.
Mung beans also have diuretic and calming effects. Other conditions treated by the use of mung beans in the diet include edema, headaches, acne, arterial plaque, arthritis, yeast overgrowth, and carpal tunnel syndrome.
Mung beans are beans native to India and are valued in a large variety of Asian cuisines for their source of high quality protein. They are used in Chinese, Japanese, Korean, Thai, and Indian cooking, and they are eaten whole, as bean sprouts, or as the basis of soup such as mung dal in India. They are made into paste, which can be the flavor of ice cream or used as a cake filling.