For Solaris 2.6 and higher, use iostat-xPnce 30 to get information including the common device names of the disk partitions, CPU statistics, error statistics, and extended disk statistics. For Solaris 2.5.1 and earlier, or for more compact output, use iostat-xc 30 to get the extended disk and CPU
About iostat. iostat reports Central Processing Unit (CPU) statistics and input/output statistics for devices and partitions. The iostat command is used for monitoring system input/output device loading by observing the time the devices are active in relation to their average transfer rates. The iostat command generates reports that can be used to change system configuration to better balance the input/output load between physical disks.
“Iostat” is a computer monitoring system that is short for “input/output statistics.” As it name suggests, iostat is used to get statistical data regarding a computer’s input and output devices like disk drives, for example.
Sample output of iostat command and its explanation: The first line displays general information — Linux kernel version, hostname etc., Next two lines displays CPU statistics, in which the first 3 column displays average CPU usage.
The iostat command is used for monitoring system input/output device loading by observing the time the devices are active in relation to their average transfer rates. The iostat command generates reports that can be used to change system configuration to better balance the input/output load between physical disks.
Introduction to iostat, vmstat and netstat. This document is primarily written with reference to solaris performance monitoring and tuning but these tools are available in other unix variants also with slight syntax difference. iostat, vmstat and netstat are three most commonly used tools for performance monitoring.
Device Utilization Report. The second report generated by the iostat command is the Device Utilization Report. The device report provides statistics on a per-physical device or partition basis. Block devices and partitions for which statistics are to be displayed may be entered on the command line.