In order to teach preschool, the student must have at least a high school diploma or equivalent. To teach K - 12th grade, the student needs a bachelor's degree. In the case of public schools, the teacher must possess a bachelor's degree and also be licensed as a teacher in the state where they live.
How to Become a Special Education Teacher. Special education teachers in public schools are required to have a bachelor’s degree and a state-issued certification or license. Teachers in private schools also need a bachelor’s degree, but may not be required to have a state license or certification.
A: In order to be a teacher you will need at least a bachelor's degree in a subject such as: early childhood education, special education, science, mathematics or teaching. Teachers can also take advanced, post-graduate degrees or certificate programs in teaching, teacher training and adult education.
Although you don't need a master's degree to get a teaching license, you may need one to maintain your license. Some states require that you earn one within a specified time frame. There are two types of master-level education programs. One is designed for certified teachers who want or need an advanced degree.
Certification Required to Become a Teacher. All states in the U.S. require public school teachers to be certified or licensed through each state's own process. Early childhood, elementary, middle and high school education certification is available. Specialty certifications are available in areas like reading, physical education or music.
Students in an alternative licensing program must already have a bachelor's degree. The bachelor's does not necessarily have to be in the subject area that the student will be teaching. In most programs, students practice teaching in the classroom while taking education classes on weekends or at night.
Although the specific education requirements for becoming a teacher vary by state, all states require that public school teachers have bachelor's degrees. Those who teach high school and college usually need degrees in the disciplines they teach; however, college professors may also need an advanced, graduate degree.
For a student to become a teacher for K - 12th grade in a public school, they must first earn a bachelor's degree and receive state certification. To receive a teacher's license, an individual must complete an approved teaching program before passing a state licensure exam.