By Amy Colwell, Mon, September 12, 2011. Refeeding syndrome symptoms may occur when a person receives a large intake of carbohydrates following a period of starvation. A severe shift in electrolytes takes place when an individual consumes a quantity of complex carbohydrates after a prolonged period of food deprivation. 
Oral phosphate supplementation should be routine and blood phosphate levels should be maintained above 1.0 mg/dl. Refeeding syndrome (RS) is a rare but potentially fatal condition that can occur during refeeding of severely malnourished individuals (such as anorexia nervosa patients). After prolonged starvation, the body begins to use fat and protein to produce energy because there are not enough carbohydrates. 
Refeeding syndrome (RFS) broadly encompasses a severe electrolyte disturbance (principally low serum concentrations of intracellular ions such as phosphate, magnesium, and potassium) and metabolic abnormalities in undernourished patients undergoing refeeding whether orally, enterally, or parenterally. The danger is that refeeding that is too cautious can result in underfeeding syndrome, which is when patients can experience increased morbidity and mortality as a result of insufficient energy intake.
You won't believe these 10 facts about people. Refeeding syndrome is a condition that can occur when a person who has gone through prolonged periods of starvation or poor nutrition begins to eat again, which can result in water retention and falling levels of potassium, magnesium, and phosphorus. 
Refeeding Syndrome. Weight restoration is the first and one of the most essential parts of the treatment process for patients with anorexia nervosa. Without nutritional rehabilitation, patients face severe and potentially life-threatening consequences of starvation, such as organ failure, stroke, or cardiac arrest. 
Refeeding syndrome is a syndrome consisting of metabolic disturbances that occur as a result of reinstitution of nutrition to patients who are starved or severely malnourished. This syndrome can occur at the beginning of treatment for anorexia nervosa when patients have an increase in calorie intake and can be lethal. The shifting of electrolytes and fluid balance increases cardiac workload and heart rate.
refeeding syndrome moderate to severe electrolyte and fluid shifts occurring during a period of refeeding; hypophosphatemia is common, and heart failure sometimes occurs. The potentially fatal metabolic response of a starved individual to feeding, either enteral or parenteral. The correction of electrolyte imbalances is imperative before gradual refeeding to prevent hypophosphatemia, rhabdomyolysis, and other life-threatening complications.
Refeeding syndrome (RFS) describes the biochemical changes, clinical manifestations, and complications that can occur as a consequence of feeding a malnourished catabolic individual. RFS has been recognised in the literature for over fifty years and can result in serious harm and death. In 2001 Crook et al. referred to a syndrome of severe electrolyte and fluid shifts associated with metabolic abnormalities in malnourished patients undergoing refeeding, whether orally, enterally, or parenterally [ 1 ]. As there is no strict definition, it is not surprising that the incidence of RFS is unclear.
refeeding syndrome. The potentially fatal metabolic response of a starved individual to feeding, either enteral or parenteral. The correction of electrolyte imbalances is imperative before gradual refeeding to prevent hypophosphatemia, rhabdomyolysis, and other life-threatening complications.
1 Refeeding Syndrome = a group of clinical findings that occur in severely malnourished individuals undergoing nutritional support. 2  underecognised. 3  occurs in the setting of prolonged starvation followed by provision of nutritional supplementation from any route. OVERVIEW. 1 