Look for a light yellow color that intertwines with the usual reds of a nectarine. A light yellow indicates ripeness, while the reds are there for looks only. The yellow may appear to be tinged with white, which also indicates the fruit is ripe. If you have white-fleshed nectarines, the mature color should appear white. Any hints of green on either yellow-or white-fleshed nectarines indicates the nectarine is not ripe.
1 It is crucial to make sure that the nectarine is ripe. 2  You can tell this by seeing if it is slightly squishy; it should also be very fragrant. 3  There is no harm eating a nectarine without cutting it. 4  Wash it well and simply be careful when biting near the pit (stone) that you don't accidentally bite into.
Peaches, nectarines and plums may well be the pinnacle of summer fruit: sweet, juicy and utterly irresistible. They're all “stone fruits”— that is, these fruits have sweet flesh surrounding a hard, rather large pit (or “stone”). Here’s how to get the best of the season’s stone fruits.
1 Do not eat them. 2  If the nectarine is not ripe, use a knife to remove the pit (stone). 3  Cook with the unripe nectarine-stew it with some sugar and it will taste fine.
1 Sometimes the pit comes apart with age; just remove the broken pieces. 2  Do not eat them. 3  If the nectarine is not ripe, use a knife to remove the pit (stone). 4  Cook with the unripe nectarine-stew it with some sugar and it will taste fine.
The best way to tell if a peach is ripe is by looking for a yellow ground color. Some varieties will have a slight green color to the background even when it is ready to pick. The peach will also have medium-soft flesh and will smell like a peach.
The red blush of a peach or nectarine doesn't tell you if the fruit is ripe. Look at the background color. It should be uniform, either golden or pale cream, with absolutely no green blush or tinge. Yellow-fleshed peaches and nectarines should be soft but not mushy in any way.
If you have a nectarine tree in your back yard, distinguishing the ripe ones is relatively straightforward. Pluck one from your tree and taste it, and if it's not ready yet try a different one later.