It should not be used in: 1  People with an allergy (hypersensitivity) to brimonidine tartrate or any of the other ingredients. 2  People taking drugs for depression called monoamine oxidase inhibitors, and certain antidepressants such as tricyclic antidepressants and mianserin. 1 In general this drug is used to reduce elevated pressure inside the eye due to open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension. 2  Benefits of being on this drug can include: 3  Decreasing the damage caused by high pressure in the eye.
1 People with an allergy (hypersensitivity) to brimonidine tartrate or any of the other ingredients. 2  People taking drugs for depression called monoamine oxidase inhibitors, and certain antidepressants such as tricyclic antidepressants and mianserin. 1 In general this drug is used to reduce elevated pressure inside the eye due to open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension. 2  Benefits of being on this drug can include: 3  Decreasing the damage caused by high pressure in the eye.
DRUG DESCRIPTION. ALPHAGAN速 P (brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution) 0.1% or 0.15%, sterile, is a relatively selective alpha-2 adrenergic receptor agonist (topical intraocular pressure lowering agent). The structural formula of brimonidine tartrate is: 5-bromo-6-(2-imidazolidinylideneamino) quinoxaline L-tartrate; MW= 442.24. In solution, ALPHAGAN速 P (brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution) has a clear, greenish-yellow color. Brimonidine tartrate appears as an off-white to pale-yellow powder and is soluble in both water (0.6 mg/mL) and in the product vehicle (1.4 mg/mL) at pH 7.7.
This is a prescription-only medicine (POM). Brimonidine Tartrate 0.2%w/v Eye Drops are a sterile, preserved solution used as eye drops. The active ingredient brimonidine tartrate works by reducing pressure within the eyeball. It is used to reduce pressure in the eye in the conditions of glaucoma or ocular hypertension. The medicine may be used alone or in conjunction with another eye drop that reduces pressure in the eye. 
INDICATIONS AND USAGE. ALPHAGAN 速 P (brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution) 0.1% or 0.15% is an alpha-adrenergic receptor agonist indicated for the reduction of elevated intraocular pressure (IOP) in patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension. IMPORTANT SAFETY INFORMATION. CONTRAINDICATIONS. Adverse reactions occurring in approximately 10% to 20% of the subjects receiving brimonidine ophthalmic solution (0.1% to 0.2%) included: allergic conjunctivitis, conjunctival hyperemia, and eye pruritus.
What is it used for? 1  Brimonidine is used to treat raised pressure inside the eye due to open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension. 2  It is a type of alpha-adrenergic agonist, or alpha-agonist. 3  It is used to lower the pressure inside the eye by reducing the amount of watery fluid in the eye (aqueous humour). 4  In general this drug is used to reduce ... 1 In general this drug is used to reduce elevated pressure inside the eye due to open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension. 2  Benefits of being on this drug can include: 3  Decreasing the damage caused by high pressure in the eye.
GENERIC NAME: brimonidine. DRUG CLASS AND MECHANISM: Brimonidine is is an ophthalmic solution used for the treatment of one type of glaucoma, open-angle glaucoma. In this type of glaucoma, too much fluid (aqueous humor) is made within the eye and causes high pressures within the eye. 
Brimonidine tartrate (Alphagan 速) is a prescription eye medication used to lower the pressure in the eyes (known medically as intraocular pressure). Specifically, it is approved to lower eye pressure in people with the following conditions: Brimonidine is prescribed for lowering eye pressure in people with various eye conditions, such as open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension.
Combigan (brimonidine tartrate/timolol maleate ophthalmic solution) is used to treat glaucoma or ocular hypertension (high pressure inside the eye). Brimonidine is an alpha agonist, and timolol is a beta-blocker. Both work to reduce pressure inside the eye. This is not a complete list of side effects and others may occur. Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects. You may report side effects to FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088. Read the entire detailed patient monograph for Combigan (Brimonidine Tartrate, Timolol Maleate Ophthalmic Solution .2%/.5%).