Sodium hydroxide (NaOH), also known as lye and caustic soda, is an inorganic compound. It is a white solid and highly caustic metallic base and alkali salt which is available in pellets, flakes, granules, and as prepared solutions at a number of different concentrations. Sodium hydroxide forms an approximately 50% (by weight) saturated solution with water. This alkali is deliquescent and readily absorbs moisture and carbon dioxide in air. Sodium hydroxide is used in many industries, mostly as a strong chemical base in the manufacture of pulp and paper, textiles, drinking water, soaps and detergents and as a drain cleaner. Worldwide production in 2004 was approximately 60 million tonnes, while demand was 51 million tonnes
Chemical Reactions-Sodium Hydroxide. A chemical reaction is a change where two or more substances are changed into a new substance. You can identify a chemical reaction by colour change, effervescence (bubbles), when light or heat given off, and the change is usually irreversible. 
Sodium Chloride (Salt). The salt Olin distributes is a high-purity, chemically processed version of common table salt. Olin’s salt is used in electrochemical and feed applications. 
Class practical. In this experiment sodium hydroxide is neutralised with hydrochloric acid to produce the soluble salt sodium chloride in solution. This solution is then concentrated and crystallised to produce sodium chloride crystals. In this experiment sodium hydroxide is neutralised with hydrochloric acid to produce the soluble salt sodium chloride in solution. This solution is then concentrated and crystallised to produce sodium chloride crystals. Less More. Class practical. In this experiment sodium hydroxide is neutralised with hydrochloric acid to produce the soluble salt sodium chloride in solution. This solution is then concentrated and crystallised to produce sodium chloride crystals. Lesson organisation.
Yep, because.... Sodium hydroxide (NaOH), also known as caustic soda, is a caustic metallic base. Pure sodium hydroxide is a white solid available in pellets, flakes, granules, and as a 50% saturated solution. It is hygroscopic and readily absorbs carbon dioxide from the air. 
Naming salts. The name of a salt is in two parts: 1  The first part of the name comes from the metal in the metal oxide, hydroxide or carbonate. 2  The second part of the name comes from the acid used to make it. 
Sodium Hydroxide. Chemical Description. Sodium hydroxide is a highly caustic metallic base and alkali salt. It is a whitish solid supplied as pellets, flakes, or grains. It is hygroscopic, very soluble in water, and often sold in solution. Because it doesn’t occur naturally, sodium hydroxide is produced as a 50% solution in various solution strengths through the electrolytic chloralkali process. Common Industrial Uses of Sodium Hydroxide. Most of the sodium hydroxide produced today is used in industrial applications. Its ability to neutralize acids and increase the alkalinity of a mixture makes it a popular additive for drilling muds used in the petroleum industry.
Description. In this experiment sodium hydroxide is neutralised with hydrochloric acid to produce the soluble salt sodium chloride in solution. This solution is then concentrated and crystallised to produce sodium chloride crystals. In this experiment sodium hydroxide is neutralised with hydrochloric acid to produce the soluble salt sodium chloride in solution. This solution is then concentrated and crystallised to produce sodium chloride crystals. Less More. Class practical. In this experiment sodium hydroxide is neutralised with hydrochloric acid to produce the soluble salt sodium chloride in solution. This solution is then concentrated and crystallised to produce sodium chloride crystals. Lesson organisation.