To start numbering with 1, click Page Number in the Header & Footer group, then click Format Page Numbers, and then click Start at and enter 1. 4. To return to the body of your document, click Close Header and Footer on the Design tab (under Header & Footer Tools).
How to Remove a Header from the Second Page. When you create a header for your document using Microsoft Office, the program adds the header to all pages of your document by default. However, you can remove the header from the second page of your document by making changes to your Header and Footer settings.
Click Open.. Browse to the document with the header to remove and double-click the file name. The document opens in a new Word window. Scroll to the second page of the document. Double-click anywhere within the top margin/header area of the second page to turn on the header editor. The header appears, surrounded by dotted lines and a new tab opens on the top of the workspace. Highlight the header information with the cursor and press the Delete key on the keyboard.
Select a header style for your document and enter the text for the header. Click “Close Header and Footer.”. Move your cursor to beginning of the second page of the document. Be sure your cursor is in front of the first letter on the page you want a different header. Click “Page Layout” in the ribbon. Click “Breaks” in the Page Setup section. You will get a drop-down menu of breaks you can do in your document.
1 open microsoft word and the document you want to work with double click the first page at the top of the page and above the words to open the header area of the document click header in the ribbon under the header footer section select a header style for your document and enter the text fo
Double-click the header on the second page of your document. Notice in your header the words “Same as Previous” appear in the far right corner. When you double-clicked the header section, you brought up the Design menu in the ribbon. In the Navigation section, you should see a Link to Previous option.
2. Click on the section of the document where you want a new page started without the header. For example, if you want the header removed from the second page, place your cursor at the beginning of the second page. 3. Click on the tab labeled “Page Layout,” then click on “Breaks. ”. 4. Click on “Next Page.