By Dave Trosdahl on August 25th, 2007. With air duct cleaning advertisments ranging in price from $88 – $450 – $1,000, it is quite difficult to guess who is right when it comes to the true cost of air duct cleaning. The same is true with duct cleaning, except. Metal is much easier to clean than carpet, so yes we can do a good job and still keep the cost under $100. double that price, and you can have a great job, using a rotary brush. We’re happy at that rate, so are our well-trained techs and you are too.
Companies offering a super low price on air duct cleaning might do more harm and no good. The fact of the matter is this: The average air duct cleaning for most homes costs between $300 and $500, with factors like the size of the home, the number of ducts and their configuration affecting the price. They quickly go through the house, vacuuming out a few vents, and are gone in less than 30 minutes. A legitimate air duct cleaning should take three to four hours to complete, according to reputable duct cleaning companies that I've spoken to.
1 A proper home air duct cleaning costs anywhere from $400-$1,000, depending on the size of the system to be cleaned, the type of services offered, the regional climate and the level of use the ventilation system gets, the type of materials inside the ductwork and the amount of contaminants (dust, mold, etc.). 
This does not indicate that your air ducts are contaminated with heavy deposits of dust or debris; the registers can be easily vacuumed or removed and cleaned.. Air duct cleaning usually costs about $400-$800 for an average size home-a home with 2 zones may cost $1000 or slightly more. How long does it take to clean the air ducts? - usually about 2-4 hours for a home with a single air handler. Most companies that offer air duct cleaning services promote themselves as something good for your health and the health of your family.
Air duct cleaning should take about 3 hours and cost between $300 and $500. Q: I'm looking to have my air ducts cleaned but I've seen prices vary from $99 to $800. I have not been given an explanation that I believe as the reason for the price difference. They quickly go through the house, vacuuming out a few vents, and are gone in less than 30 minutes. A legitimate air duct cleaning should take three to four hours to complete, according to reputable duct cleaning companies that I've spoken to.
Fortunately, hiring a professional cleaning service is much more affordable than you might think. While the specific cost will vary depending on how many vents and ducts you have in addition to their size, most home and business owners can have these services performed for about $150 to $400. In general, it should not take more than 3 to 5 hours for the cleaners to get the job done. During this time, they will use a series of tools to clean out all the ducts and vents within your home or place of business. By having this type of work done, you can notice an immediate improvement in your home's air quality.
NEXT STEP. Find out how much your project will cost. Provide a few details about your project and receive competitive quotes from local pros. The average national cost to clean ducts & vents is $333, with most homeowners spending between $238 and $429. This data is based on actual project costs as reported by HomeAdvisor members. 
Typical Costs. As of 2014, the cost of residential duct cleaning ranges from $450 to $1,000 per heating or cooling system. Cost varies depending on how large the system is, contamination level of the debris in the ducts and accessibility. 