Typically currency refers to money that is legally designated as such by the governing body, but in some cultures currency can refer to any object that has a perceived value and can be exchanged for other objects. 
The first usage of the term came from Mesopotamia circa 3000 BC. Societies in the Americas, Asia, Africa and Australia used shell money – often, the shells of the cowry (Cypraea moneta L. or C. annulus L.). According to Herodotus, the Lydians were the first people to introduce the use of gold and silver coins. The word money is believed to originate from a temple of Juno, on Capitoline, one of Rome's seven hills. In the ancient world Juno was often associated with money. The temple of Juno Moneta at Rome was the place where the mint of Ancient Rome was located.
In economics, money is a broad term that refers to any financial instrument that can fulfill the functions of money (detailed above). These financial instruments together are collectively referred to as the money supply of an economy. The word money is believed to originate from a temple of Juno, on Capitoline, one of Rome's seven hills. In the ancient world Juno was often associated with money. The temple of Juno Moneta at Rome was the place where the mint of Ancient Rome was located.
The economics term cost, also known as economic cost or opportunity cost, refers to the potential gain that is lost by foregoing one opportunity in order to take advantage of another. The lost potential gain is the cost of the opportunity that is accepted. For example, the marginal propensity to consume refers to the incremental tendency to spend income on consumer goods: the fraction of any additional income which is spent on additional consumption (or conversely, the fraction of any decrease in income which becomes a decrease in consumption).
The main functions of money are distinguished as: a medium of exchange; a unit of account; a store of value; and, sometimes, a standard of deferred payment. Any item or verifiable record that fulfills these functions can be considered money. The word money is believed to originate from a temple of Juno, on Capitoline, one of Rome's seven hills. In the ancient world Juno was often associated with money. The temple of Juno Moneta at Rome was the place where the mint of Ancient Rome was located.
n. pl. cur·ren·cies. 1. Money in any form when in actual use as a medium of exchange, especially circulating paper money. 2. Transmission from person to person as a medium of exchange; circulation: coins now in currency. 3. General acceptance or use; prevalence: the currency of a slang term. 
Fiat money, like any check or note of debt, is without intrinsic use value as a physical commodity. It derives its value by being declared by a government to be legal tender; that is, it must be accepted as a form of payment within the boundaries of the country, for all debts, public and private. The word money is believed to originate from a temple of Juno, on Capitoline, one of Rome's seven hills. In the ancient world Juno was often associated with money. The temple of Juno Moneta at Rome was the place where the mint of Ancient Rome was located.
Share to: 1  Today's Top Jobs: Finding a Job in a Slow Economy Finding a job can be tough. 2  The process is even harder when the economy is suffering from high unemployment rates. 3  You can find a job much more easily if you choose a career …. The general term for federal money or resources granted to states  or local governments is grant. This are funds and resources which  are devolved to the local level through … the states. BJ Sullivan.
Avid political scientist with a strong focus on US History, including the political & military aspects of the US Civil War. Generally speaking a few words relate to the use of money, but not necessarily cash exchanges. The terms of commerce, payments, loans, and buying all relate to the use of money and or currencies. 
DEFINITION of 'Time Value of Money-TVM'. The idea that money available at the present time is worth more than the same amount in the future due to its potential earning capacity. This core principle of finance holds that, provided money can earn interest, any amount of money is worth more the sooner it is received. 