Tahirah is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 7 letters and 3 syllables and is pronounced Ta-hi-rah. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 5741 in baby name popularity for girls with 23 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. Your child may feel that they fit in more with a more popular name. On the other hand, they may feel more special if their name is less popular and more uniquely their own. As you see it can go both ways, so just keep this point in mind as you examine the different possibilities.
Meaning of Tahirah. Egyptian name. In Egyptian, the name Tahirah means-pure.The name Tahirah originated as an Egyptian name. The name Tahirah is most often used as a girl name or female name. Egyptian Name Meaning-pure.
If you consider naming your baby Tahirah we recommend you take note of the special meaning and history of the name as your baby’s name will play a big role in its life and your baby will hear it spoken every day. Popularity of the Name Tahirah. This name is not popular in the US, according to Social Security Administration, as there are no popularity data for the name. This doesn't mean that the name Tahirah is not popular in other countries all over the world.
Egyptian Meaning: The name Tahirah is an Egyptian baby name. In Egyptian the meaning of the name Tahirah is: Pristine. Muslim Meaning: The name Tahirah is a Muslim baby name. In Muslim the meaning of the name Tahirah is: Pure. Chaste. Arabic Meaning: The name Tahirah is an Arabic baby name. In Arabic the meaning of the name Tahirah is: Virginal. 
The meaning of Tahirah is “Pure, virtuous”. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Tahirah and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Tahirah and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. Popularity of the Name Tahirah. This name is not popular in the US, according to Social Security Administration, as there are no popularity data for the name. This doesn't mean that the name Tahirah is not popular in other countries all over the world.
Then just follow the diagram below. Just for fun, see the name Tahirah in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Tahirah in Nautical Flags page. Your child may feel that they fit in more with a more popular name. On the other hand, they may feel more special if their name is less popular and more uniquely their own. As you see it can go both ways, so just keep this point in mind as you examine the different possibilities.