A computing platform is, in the most general sense, whatever pre-existing environment a piece of computer software or code object is designed to run within, obeying its constraints, and making use of its facilities. 1 A browser in the case of web-based software. 2  The browser itself runs on a hardware+OS platform, but this is not relevant to software running within the browser. 3  An application, such as a spreadsheet or word processor, which hosts software written in an application-specific scripting language, such as an Excel macro.
As of July 2010, the database that costs the most per machine-processor among Oracle database editions, at $47,500 per processor. The term per processor for Enterprise Edition is defined with respect to physical cores and a processor core multiplier (common processors = 0.5*cores). Oracle database management tracks its computer data storage with the help of information stored in the SYSTEM tablespace. The SYSTEM tablespace contains the data dictionary —and often (by default) indexes and clusters.
The Oracle Corporation is an American global computer technology corporation, headquartered in Redwood City, California. The company primarily specializes in developing and marketing computer hardware systems and enterprise software products – particularly its own brands of database management systems. Larry Ellison, a co-founder of Oracle, served as Oracle's CEO from founding. On September 18, 2014, it was announced that he would be stepping down (with Mark Hurd and Safra Catz to become CEOs). Ellison became executive chairman and CTO.
Oracle Database (commonly referred to as Oracle RDBMS or simply as Oracle) is an object-relational database management system produced and marketed by Oracle Corporation. Oracle database management tracks its computer data storage with the help of information stored in the SYSTEM tablespace. The SYSTEM tablespace contains the data dictionary —and often (by default) indexes and clusters.
The Commonwealth Bank and National Australia Bank (NAB) have been in the process of revamping their old core banking systems for some time. NAB is already on Oracle's newly released platform, as a test case for the software vendor to build up credibility for the product, according to Oracle. Suncorp is another bank that has adopted the Oracle platform, and is currently in phase two of deployment. The vendor is hoping that banks will be using this new platform for at least the next few decades, according to Oracle Financial Services Group Vice President Ashwin Goyal.
On 24 October 2010, Oracle announced the appointment of Chaitanya M Kamat (Chet Kamat) as Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Oracle Financial Services Software Limited. Mr. Kamat has also joined the Board of Directors. On 4 April 2008, Oracle told i-flex solutions to change the name of the company to Oracle Financial Services Limited, subject to regulatory and shareholder approvals.
The platform is designed as a complement to Oracle's FLEXCUBE core banking product suite. [See Related: 12 Best Practices for a Core Banking Upgrade]. Jonathan Camhi has been an associate editor with Bank Systems & Technology since 2012. Oracle's unveiled its new Oracle Banking Platform today conceived as an answer for large global banks who are looking to overhaul their legacy core systems.
PL/SQL is a programming language like C, Java or Pascal. In the Oracle world, there is no better way to access your data from inside a program. SQL can be natively embedded in PL/SQL programs. I will be using both SQL and PL/SQL very heavily in my future articles. SQL*Plus has a command line interface. With it, you can access the database and write stored procedures, you can run SQL commands to retrieve data and you can run scripts of either SQL, PL/SQL or built-in SQL*Plus commands, or a mixture of those three things. Oracle Developer is a 4GL GUI application Builder.
Oracle Financial Services Software Limited is a subsidiary of Oracle Corporation. It is an IT solution provider to the banking industry. It claims to have more than 900 customers in over 145 countries. Oracle Financial Services Software Limited is ranked No. 9 in IT companies of India and overall ranked No. 253 in Fortune India 500 list in 2011. On 4 April 2008, Oracle told i-flex solutions to change the name of the company to Oracle Financial Services Limited, subject to regulatory and shareholder approvals.