Based on the 1979 novella of the same title by Jim Harrison, the film is about three brothers and their father living in the wilderness and plains of Montana in the early 20th century and how their lives are affected by nature, history, war and love. Legends of the Fall was first released on DVD on April 29, 1997, and once again on October 17, 2000. The film was later released on Blu-ray on February 8, 2011, with bonus content that includes two audio commentaries, deleted scenes with optional commentary and two behind-the-scenes featurettes.
Legends of the Fall was filmed on location in Alberta and British Columbia, Canada. Principal photography began in mid-September 1993. The World War I battlefield scenes took two weeks to film and were shot near Morley, Alberta, with hundreds of locals and a few Canadian Forces soldiers recruited as extras. Legends of the Fall was first released on DVD on April 29, 1997, and once again on October 17, 2000. The film was later released on Blu-ray on February 8, 2011, with bonus content that includes two audio commentaries, deleted scenes with optional commentary and two behind-the-scenes featurettes.
The movie Legends of the Fall (1994) is set in Montana, but the filming of the ranch scenes occurred along Ghost River, Alberta, Canada. Kevin Costner, Paul Newman, and Robin Wright Penn starred in this  1999 hit movie filmed in Phippsburg (at Popham Beach), Bath,New  Harbor, and Portland. The big wharf where … Kevin Costner first is  seen is Brackett's Wharf in New Harbor, a large wharf at the head  of the harbor.
Split and merge into it. Answer by Julia Werner. Confidence votes 2.3K. Legends of the Fall was primarily filmed on location in Alberta and British Columbia, Canada. Some of the scenes were shot at Maple Leaf Square in Vancouver, and Ocho Rios in St. Ann, Jamaica. Where is the location of the ranch in the movie Legends of the Fall? The movie Legends of the Fall (1994) is set in Montana, but the filming of the ranch scenes occurred along Ghost River, Alberta, Canada.
Brad Pitt – Legends of the Fall. Calgary, Alberta-The skilled labour, tax breaks and the spectacular scenery of Alberta have made it a mecca for ‘western’ film shoots, including Legends of the Fall, the 1994 Oscar-winning film starring Brad Pitt and Anthony Hopkins. He must have taken to it. He was back to Alberta in 2005 for the filming of the Assassination of Jesse James. The Legends WWI scenes were filmed just north of Calgary and included serviceman from the Canadian forces to work with the locally-recruited extras.
According to IMDB one of the locations was Ghost River Alberta, Canada. All of the outdoor scenes, including the WWI scenes, were filmed west of Calgary Alberta (this includ … es the Ghost River area). Scenes taking place in Helena, Montana were filmed in Vancouver, British Columbia. Where is the location of the ranch in the movie Legends of the Fall? The movie Legends of the Fall (1994) is set in Montana, but the filming of the ranch scenes occurred along Ghost River,
Legends of the Fall is a 1994 American epic drama film directed by Edward Zwick and starring Brad Pitt, Anthony Hopkins, Aidan Quinn, Julia Ormond and Henry Thomas. Legends of the Fall was first released on DVD on April 29, 1997, and once again on October 17, 2000. The film was later released on Blu-ray on February 8, 2011, with bonus content that includes two audio commentaries, deleted scenes with optional commentary and two behind-the-scenes featurettes.
Actress Julia Ormond chatted with HuffPost Live host Ricky Camilleri on Thursday, July 17, about her role in the 1995 classic, Legends of the Fall -- you know, that film she co-starred in with a blossoming Brad Pitt, the esteemed Anthony Hopkins and E.T. star Henry Thomas. (Oh, Aidan Quinn was in it too). 
According to IMDB one of the locations was Ghost River Alberta, Canada. All of the outdoor scenes, including the WWI scenes, were filmed west of Calgary Alberta (this includes the Ghost River area). Kevin Costner, Paul Newman, and Robin Wright Penn starred in this  1999 hit movie filmed in Phippsburg (at Popham Beach), Bath,New  Harbor, and Portland. The big wharf where … Kevin Costner first is  seen is Brackett's Wharf in New Harbor, a large wharf at the head  of the harbor.
Film: Legends Of The Fall. A 1994 film based on the 1979 novel by Jim Harrison. Directed by Edward Zwick. Starring Anthony Hopkins, Brad Pitt, Aidan Quinn and Julia Ormond. It's a Generational Saga about the lives and loves of the Ludlow clan. John Toll won the award for Best Cinematographer at that year's Academy Awards. It centers on the Ludlow family of Montana, including veteran of the Indian Wars Colonel Ludlow (Anthony Hopkins), his sons, Alfred (Aidan Quinn), Tristan (Brad Pitt) and Samuel (Henry Thomas), and object of the brothers' love, Susannah (Julia Ormond).