What is Pericardium, definition and function. Pericardium is a tough, two-layer membranous sac that encloses the HEART. The pericardium’s fibrous outer layer, called the fibrous pericardium, protects the heart from contact with the chest wall and other structures in the chest, including the LUNGS and the sternum. 
What is Endocardium, definition and function. Endocardium is the membrane that lines the inner HEART, made up of epithelial cells. The endocardium also covers the heart valves, providing a smooth surface that offers no opportunity for BLOOD cells (particularly platelets) to stick to it as they pass through the heart. 
I am an integrative healthcare professional, massage therapist, and health sciences educator. The endocardium consists of the same tissue as the insides of arteries and veins. Its main function is to allow the smooth flow of blood through the heart. Confidence votes 32.8K. I am an integrative healthcare professional, massage therapist, and health sciences educator. The endocardium consists of the same tissue as the insides of arteries and veins. Its main function is to allow the smooth flow of blood through the heart. It is composed mostly of epithelial tissue.
The Epicardium. The epicardium is the layer of muscle found covering the external surfaces of the heart. It is directly fused with the myocardium internally and is in contact with the serous layer of the pericardium. It is sometimes considered as a division of the inner layer of the pericardium. 
Medical Definition of EPICARDIUM. : the visceral part of the pericardium that closely envelops the heart—called also visceral pericardium; compare parietal pericardium. Definition of EPICARDIUM. : the inner layer of the pericardium that closely envelops the heart. — epi·car·di·al \-dē-əl\ adjective. ADVERTISEMENT
Abstract. The epicardium is the outermost layer of the heart and it is formed by mesothelial cells that derive from a transient structure of precursor cells (the proepicardium). 
These 10 facts about space will blow your mind. The epicardium is a layer of muscle located on the outside of the heart. A continuous piece of muscle, this tissue performs a protective role, helping hold the other muscles close together. 
Pericardial Membranes. 1  Fibrous Pericardium-the outer fibrous sac that covers the heart. 2  Parietal Pericardium-lies between the visceral pericardium and the fibrous pericardium. 3  Visceral Pericardium-also called the epicardium, this is the outer layer of the wall of the heart. 1 Parietal Pericardium-lies between the visceral pericardium and the fibrous pericardium. 2