Vitamin C. Vitamin C is a key nutrient in collagen and elastin production and can be a limiting factor if you don't obtain sufficient quantities in your diet. Many plant foods offer significant amounts of vitamin C. Guavas pack the biggest vitamin C punch of all, with 165 milligrams in one medium-sized fruit. One of estrogen's effects on the body is to promote collagen and elastin production and prevent them from being broken down. Low estrogen levels, as in menopause, lead to the characteristic skin, bone and joint changes associated with menopause-related aging.
Collagen is a protein that works like glue to bind cells together. It’s the most abundant of fibers in our connective tissue, which gives our bodies form and support. Collagen is found in the connective tissue of our skin, teeth, bones, organs, and cartilage. Collagen keeps our skin firm and resilient, protecting it from wrinkling. The role of vitamin C in the production of collagen is to interact with amino acids within collagen cells. It adds hydrogen and oxygen to those amino acids, so that they may do their part in collagen production. If you don’t get the proper amount of vitamin C, collagen production will slow
It also works with vitamin C to help reconstruct collagen and keep your skin youthful and able to retain moisture and firmness. A diet deficient in vitamin E can result in acne, miscarriage, cancers, anemia and gallstones. It can ease the discomfort of painful swollen joints, and aid circulation. Topical applications of vitamin A can boost collagen levels and improve the texture of your skin. A 2010 Mayo Clinic article described retin A, a form of retinoid, as the first antioxidant used in a wide range of anti-wrinkle creams.
Specifically, vitamin C has been shown to stabilize collagen mRNA, thus increasing collagen protein synthesis for repair of the damaged skin (47) . This occurs concurrently with a decrease in elastin production; the elastin protein is often overproduced in response to photodamage (48) . In addition to its antioxidant functions, vitamin C regulates the synthesis of the structural protein collagen. The role of vitamin C in the hydroxylation of collagen molecules is well characterized (46) . Hydroxylation of collagen is necessary for its extracellular stability and support of the epidermis.
The antioxidant properties of vitamin C (ascorbic acid) and its role in collagen synthesis make vitamin C a vital molecule for skin health. In addition to its antioxidant functions, vitamin C regulates the synthesis of the structural protein collagen. The role of vitamin C in the hydroxylation of collagen molecules is well characterized (46) . Hydroxylation of collagen is necessary for its extracellular stability and support of the epidermis.
Make sure to include vegetables and fruits in your meals for healthy collagen -- produce contains vitamin C, which also aids in collagen production. A spinach and red pepper salad topped with steamed oysters and roasted cashews makes for a hearty lunch that also keeps your collagen production healthy. 
Vitamin C is not only necessary for collagen production and maintenance, but it is also a potent antioxidant that can neutralize free radicals in the skin. Free radicals are atoms or molecules with an unpaired electron. 18 Topical vitamin C may also help preserve existing collagen by influencing the enzymes responsible for collagen degradation. 19. Connective structures composed of collagen known as dermal papillae that lie in the skin’s dermis become smaller and weaker as collagen levels decline.
Collagen, the very substance that these supplements are trying to support, keeps skin resilient and joints working smoothly and provides the structure in the tissue that connects our organs—but past the ripe old age of 30, everyone's collagen production declines. Even more significant, levels of the body's own procollagen (the precursor to collagen) were significantly elevated, with production up by an impressive 65%. It seems that, however improbably, the pills in this study could make a woman's skin behave like a younger version of itself.
While vitamin C is an important nutrient for overall health, little reaches the skin when orally ingested. 6 As levels of vitamin C in the skin decline with age, 7 replenishing levels directly in the skin can help combat collagen degradation and oxidative stress. 18 Topical vitamin C may also help preserve existing collagen by influencing the enzymes responsible for collagen degradation. 19. Connective structures composed of collagen known as dermal papillae that lie in the skin’s dermis become smaller and weaker as collagen levels decline.