#3. Louvre. One of the not-to-miss sights in Paris is the Louvre Museum, possibly the most famous museum in the world with a fabulous collection. It is housed in the Louvre Palace, once the residence of France's royal family.
The museums of Paris, France, are museums within the city limits of Paris. 
In Paris, museums most often mean art. And so it follows that famous museums in Paris are of that type. The major ones are so large that it would take many hours and cause much aching of feet to see all they have on display. The Louvre Museum began as a fortification in the 12th century and grew into a palace that ultimately was the grand home of King Louis XIV. Its beginnings as a museum can be traced to 1793, when the Museum Central des Arts opened in a part of the palace.
1 Most reside in permanent collections at museums, b…. 2  Must-See Works of Art in the Louvre The Louvre is one of the world's largest and most famous museums. 3  Located in Paris, France, the Louvre is home to more than 35,000 works of art from prehistory to the 21st ce…. It is called Le Louvre museum, hope that helps :). 9 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: Studio K. 9,121 Contributions. As a graphic designer I enjoy creating relationships between images and type, and proofread by habit.
It is called the Musee musée Du, louvre'it s the main museum Of france and'it s located In. paris It is called Le Louvre museum, hope that helps :). 9 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: Studio K. 9,121 Contributions. As a graphic designer I enjoy creating relationships between images and type, and proofread by habit.
One very popular museum name is Gugenheim, there are 8 Gugenheim museums across the world, including Venice and New York. Two other museums in New York are the Metropolitan Mu … seum of Art (The Met) and the Museum of Modern Art (MoMA). Other famous art museums are the Louvre in France, and the Tate Modern in London. 2 people found this useful. 1  5 of the Top Museums in Rome When people talk of their travel experience Rome, they often talk about their visits to distinct historical landmarks such as the Pantheon and Coliseum.
Musee du Louvre. One of the largest and most visited museums in the world, the Musee du Louvre, or Louvre Museum (louvre.fr), is part of the Louvre Palace, a central landmark of Paris. This museum houses over 35,000 works of art in over 60,000 square meters of space for its permanent collections. The Louvre is home to some of the most famous original works of art in the world, including Da Vinci's Mona Lisa, some of which date back to the 12th century. For centuries, Paris, France, has played a starring role in the world of art. The City of Light has historically been the inspiration, the central hub, the launch pad of trends, and the exposition place for artists from all over the world.
The Mona Lisa painting is currently located at The Louvre Museum in Paris, France. The Louvre is one of the world's largest museums and the most visited art museum in the wo … rld. Nearly 35,000 objects from prehistory to the 19th century are exhibited over an area of 60,600 square meters. It is called Le Louvre museum, hope that helps :). 9 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: Studio K. 9,121 Contributions. As a graphic designer I enjoy creating relationships between images and type, and proofread by habit.
What is the name of the famous museum in Paris where the famous painting called 'Mona Lisa' can be seen? It is called the Musee musée Du, louvre'it s the main museum Of france and'it s located In. paris Other famous art museums are the Louvre in France, and the Tate Modern in London. 2 people found this useful. 1  5 of the Top Museums in Rome When people talk of their travel experience Rome, they often talk about their visits to distinct historical landmarks such as the Pantheon and Coliseum.
Musee musée'D. Orsay located on the left bank Of Seine, River musee’Musée d orsay is one of famous Museums, In. Paris france taking place in a former, Railway station’Gare d orsay which was built in 1898, to 1900 the museum is home To numerous, french, sculptures, furniture paintings and photography produced between 1848. to 1914 