1 Combine the marinade ingredients in a large non-reactive bowl. Place steak in the bowl and turn so that it is completely coated with the marinade. (You can also place the steak and marinade in a freezer bag and place it in a bowl.) Chill and marinate for at least 2 hours and up to overnight. 2 Prepare your grill for high, direct heat with one part of the grill for lower, indirect heat. 4 When the steak has cooked to your preferred level of doneness, remove from the grill and place on a cutting board. Cover with aluminum foil to hold in the heat while the steak rests for 10 to 15 minutes. 5 Notice the direction of the muscle fibers of the steak; this is called the grain of the meat. Flank steak is a very lean cut that will be tough and chewy unless you cut it in a way that breaks up the muscle fibers
Directions. Place the flank steak in a large, plastic resealable bag. In a 2-cup measuring cup combine the remaining ingredients. Pour the marinade mixture into the bag with the steak, seal and marinate in the refrigerator at least 4 hours and up to 12 hours in advance. Preheat a gas or charcoal grill.
Coat the flank steak with marinade: Place the steak in a shallow dish, like a 9x13-inch baking dish. Whisk together all the marinade ingredients and pour over the steak. Rub the marinade into the steak and flip the steak once or twice in the dish to coat. Marinate for 1 hour or up to 24 hours: Cover the dish and place the steak in the fridge for at least 1 hour or up to 24 hours. Line a broiler pan with aluminum foil, add the top, and spray the top with nonstick cooking spray. Broil the steak 4 to 6 minutes per side: Remove the steak from the marinade, shake off any excess, and place it in the middle of the broiler pan. Slide it directly under the broil. Cook for 4 to 6 minutes, flip it over, and broil for another 4 to 6 minutes (8 to 12 minutes total)
The Best Way to Cook Flank Steak. You can grill flank steak, cook it in a skillet on the stovetop, or even cut it up for a stir-fry, but my choice for everyday cooking is under the broiler. The broiler is basically an upside-down grill that blasts the steak with direct heat. Line a broiler pan with aluminum foil, add the top, and spray the top with nonstick cooking spray. Broil the steak 4 to 6 minutes per side: Remove the steak from the marinade, shake off any excess, and place it in the middle of the broiler pan. Slide it directly under the broil. Cook for 4 to 6 minutes, flip it over, and broil for another 4 to 6 minutes (8 to 12 minutes total)
In general, the first step in grilling flank steak is to prepare your grill; make sure the flame/heat is not too high. Next, you’ll want to sprinkle a dash of salt and a hint of pepper on each side of the beef that you’re cooking. The next step is to put the flank steak on the grill. It’s recommended that you then grill the steak for approximately 10 minutes over coals that are medium-hot. While a grilling time of 10 minutes will give you a medium-rare steak, you may allow it to grill for a bit longer until the beef reaches the desired doneness. 
Directions. Preheat oven broiler. Marinate flank steak in lime juice, salt and pepper. Do this right on the paper the steak comes wrapped in for easy clean up. Place on broiler pan and cook, turning once until medium rare, about 4 to 5 minutes per side. Remove to a cutting board to rest. 
Flank steak is a flavorful cut of meat taken from the flank (lower abdominal region) of the cow. In the hands of a budget-minded cook, flank steak can be a delicious yet affordable alternative to pricier cuts of beef like prime rib and other steak varieties (T-bone, ribeye, etc.). 
Step 2. Marinate your flank steak in a food-safe plastic bag or stainless steel bowl to make it tender and flavorful. Use approximately ¼ cup of liquid marinade for every pound of flank steak and let it soak for six to 24 hours before cooking. Use a pre-made marinade or create your own. 