The Komodo dragon (Varanus komodoensis) is a species of lizard that lives in the Indonesian islands of Komodo, Rincah, Flores, Gili Motang, and Gili Dasami. It is the largest living lizard. They grow to an average length of 2–3 meters (approximately 6.5–10 ft) and weigh around 70kg (154 pounds). Komodo dragon bites can be very dangerous, and they sometimes attack people. Western scientists first saw Komodo dragons in 1910. The Komodo dragon's earholes are easy to see, but Komodo dragons are not very good at hearing. It is able to see as far away as 300 meters (985 feet), but it is thought to have poor night vision. The Komodo dragon is able to see in color, but has trouble seeing objects that do not move.
Komodo Dragon Facts. 1  The Komodo dragon is the largest and heaviest living lizard in the world. 2  Komodo dragons eat almost any kind of meat. 3  Komodo Dragons are easily confused with crocodiles, in fact: They are called the “Ora” or land crocodile by locals. 1 Komodo dragons eat almost any kind of meat. 2  Komodo Dragons are easily confused with crocodiles, in fact: They are called the “Ora” or land crocodile by locals. 3  They are able to grow as long as 10 feet and weigh about 300 pounds.
Komodo dragons hunt and ambush prey including invertebrates, birds, and mammals. It has been claimed that they have a venomous bite; there are two glands in the lower jaw which secrete several toxic proteins. The Komodo dragon is a vulnerable species and is on the IUCN Red List. There are approximately 4,000 to 5,000 living Komodo dragons in the wild. Their populations are restricted to the islands of Gili Motang (100), Gili Dasami (100), Rinca (1,300), Komodo (1,700), and Flores (perhaps 2,000).
Komodo Dragon Description. Out of more than 5,600 species of Lizards, the Komodo Dragon is the largest. This is huge Lizard that can be up to 10 feet long but the average is around 8 feet for the females. They weigh around 300 pounds. Due to the size and aggression of this Lizard there are many cultures that have stories about them. 
Komodo Dragon. The Komodo dragon (Varanus komodoensis) is a lizard species that is found on the islands (particularly the Komodo Island) in central Indonesia. The komodo dragon is a member of the monitor lizard family and is the largest living species of lizard. Because of their size and because there are no other carnivorous animals, these apex predators dominate the ecosystem in which they live. 
1 The Komodo dragon is the largest and heaviest living lizard in the world. 2  Komodo dragons eat almost any kind of meat. 3  Komodo Dragons are easily confused with crocodiles, in fact: They are called the “Ora” or land crocodile by locals. 4  They are able to grow as long as 10 feet and weigh about 300 pounds. 1 Komodo dragons eat almost any kind of meat. 2  Komodo Dragons are easily confused with crocodiles, in fact: They are called the “Ora” or land crocodile by locals. 3  They are able to grow as long as 10 feet and weigh about 300 pounds.
There are over 3,000 lizard species, but the Komodo dragon wins the prize for being the largest living lizard in the world! It is a type of monitor lizard, an ancient species of reptile with ancestors that date back more than 100 million years. 
The Komodo dragon (Varanus komodoensis), also known as the Komodo monitor, is a large species of lizard found in the Indonesian islands of Komodo, Rinca, Flores, Gili Motang, and Padar. The Komodo dragon is a vulnerable species and is on the IUCN Red List. There are approximately 4,000 to 5,000 living Komodo dragons in the wild. Their populations are restricted to the islands of Gili Motang (100), Gili Dasami (100), Rinca (1,300), Komodo (1,700), and Flores (perhaps 2,000).