Market niches can be geographic areas, a specialty industry, ethnic or age groups, or any other particular group of people. Sometimes a niche product can be a variation of a common product that is not produced and marketed by the main marketing firms. Examples of niche markets are listed in Table 1. It is obvious from the table that niche marketing is everywhere.
Concentrating all marketing efforts on a small but specific and well defined segment of the population. Niches do not 'exist' but are 'created' by identifying needs, wants, and requirements that are being addressed poorly or not at all by other firms, and developing and delivering goods or services to satisfy them. You can try for niche marketing if you think that you really need your product to go out to one small demographic. 7 people found this helpful. Me and my business partner practiced niche marketing and concentrated all of our efforts on a small percentage of the population. 8 people found this helpful. You may want to target a specific group of people for your product by using a specialized niche marketing plan
A large potential market. For your business to be profitable, your market and niche must be large enough that you can make money selling your product or service. In addition to identifying and accessing potential customers, there has to be enough of them, Rackley said. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. A niche market is the subset of the market on which a specific product is focused. The market niche defines the product features aimed at satisfying specific market needs, as well as the price range, production quality and the demographics that is intended to impact. It is also a small market segment. For example, sports channels like STAR Sports, ESPN, STAR Cricket, and Fox Sports target a niche of sports enthusiasts.
The word niche comes from a French word that means to nest. Niche marketing is targeting a product or service to a small portion of a market that is not being readily served by the mainstream product or service marketers. Nearly every business—fast food chains, convenience stores, even Wal-Mart was begun to fill perceived voids in the market place. Sometimes a niche product can be a variation of a common product that is not produced and marketed by the main marketing firms. Examples of niche markets are listed in Table 1. It is obvious from the table that niche marketing is everywhere.
Your niche is the service you specialise in offering to your target market. For example various design businesses can have creative freelancers as their client group: a design company can offer them web design and app development, another company can offer them branding advice or photography. However, it is important to understand that there is a difference between your niche and your target market: Your target market is the specific group of people you work for e.g. women in the City, dog owners, creative female freelancers, ceramic collectors, brides to be, outdoor galleries.
A niche in the wall. A niche in the wall. The definition of a niche is a specialized part of a market for products or services or a little separated area in a room. 1  An example of a niche is a market for beagle products, which is a niche in the market of dog products as a whole. 