2. Infinitives are the to form of the verb. The infinitive form of learn is to learn.. You can also use an infinitive as the subject, the complement, or the object of a sentence. Examples: 1  To learn is important. 2  subject of sentence. 3  The most important thing is to learn. complement of sentence.
When we use the word 'to' before a verb in a sentence, we are using the infinitive verb form. However, what can be confusing is that the infinitive phrase -- 'to' plus a verb -- does not act like a verb at all but rather takes on the role of a noun, adjective or adverb in a sentence. Infinitives as Adjectives. Now, we will take a look at how infinitives can be used as adjectives in sentences. Take a look at these examples: 'Terrence lacked the motivation to succeed.' In this sentence, the phrase 'to succeed' modifies the noun 'motivation' and takes the role of an adjective.
A verbal construction made up of the particle to and the base form of a verb, with or without modifiers, complements, and objects. An infinitive phrase can function as a noun, an adjective, or an adverb, and it can appear in various places in a sentence. See Examples and Observations, below. See also: 1  Infinitive. 2  Infinitive Clause. 3  Catenative Verb. 4  Exercise in Identifying Infinitive Phrases.
1 An infinitive is a verbal consisting of the word to plus a verb; it may be used as a noun, adjective, or adverb. 2  An infinitive phrase consists of an infinitive plus modifier(s), object(s), complement(s), and/or actor(s). An infinitive is a verbal consisting of the word to plus a verb (in its simplest stem form) and functioning
An infinitive will almost always begin with to followed by the simple form of the verb, like this: To + Verb = Infinitive. Important Note: Because an infinitive is not a verb, you can not add s, es, ed, or ing to the end. Ever! Infinitives can be used as nouns, adjectives, or adverbs. Look at these examples: To sleep is the only thing Eli wants after his double shift waiting tables at the neighborhood cafe. café 
Definition. A base form of a verb --often preceded by the particle to --that can function as a noun, an adjective, or an adverb (but not as a main verb). The infinitive is a type of verbal. Adjective: infinitival. 
Infinitives as Nouns. Here are some examples of infinitives that are used as nouns in sentences: 'To run a marathon was Amelia's greatest dream.' Here, the phrase 'to run' is used as the subject of the sentence. 'Monica wanted to score five goals in the soccer game.' In this sentence, 'to score' acts as a direct object. Infinitives as Adjectives. Now, we will take a look at how infinitives can be used as adjectives in sentences. Take a look at these examples: 'Terrence lacked the motivation to succeed.' In this sentence, the phrase 'to succeed' modifies the noun 'motivation' and takes the role of an adjective.
An infinitive is a verb form that typically begins with the word to. An infinitive phrase includes the infinitive, plus any modifiers and complements. Infinitives and infinitive phrases can function as nouns, adjectives, or adverbs in a sentence. As nouns, infinitives and infinitive phrases can act either as subjects, direct objects, or predicate nominatives.
Actors: In these last two examples the actor of the infinitive phrase could be roughly characterized as the subject of the action or state expressed in the infinitive. It is somewhat misleading to use the word subject, however, since an infinitive phrase is not a full clause with a subject and a finite verb. An infinitive is a verbal consisting of the word to plus a verb (in its simplest stem form) and functioning as a noun, adjective, or adverb.