Vesphene IIse Germicidal Detergent is intended for use in institutions such as hospitals, nursing homes, schools, medical and dental offices, pharmaceutical plants, and other indoor areas where disinfection, cleaning, and deodorizing are necessary. For full access to this content, please Register or Sign In. Vesphene IIse Germicidal Detergent cleans and disinfects all washable hard non-porous environmental surfaces such as floors, walls, woodwork, bathroom fixtures, equipment, and furniture.
The Vesphene products are all made with the same alkaline phenolic formulation, but are processed and packaged differently for specific applications. At a use-dilution rate of 1:128, the Vesphene products kill a broad spectrum of common bacteria without harming the surface. Formulated to maintain an alkaline use-dilution pH of 10.4-10.6, they are ideal for use in a disinfectant rotation program with the LpH ® acidic family of products. HOW VESPHENE IISE ONE STEP GERMICIDAL DETERGENT WORKS.
STERIS' Process Vesphene st Sterile One-Step Cleaner Disinfectant and One Solution Vesphene st System Pre-measured WFI are liquid concentrates specifically formulated for the disinfection of hard surfaces. The use-dilution can be applied manually or sprayed. The One Solution Vesphene st System Pre-measured WFI combines a sterile unit dose pouch with a gallon of USP Water For Injection (WFI). The Vesphene products are all made with the same alkaline phenolic formulation, but are processed and packaged differently for specific applications. At a use-dilution rate of 1:128, the Vesphene products kill a broad spectrum of common bacteria without harming the surface. Formulated to maintain an alkaline use-dilution pH of 10.4-10.6, they are ideal for use in a disinfectant rotation program with the LpH ® acidic family of products
STERIS' Vesphene IIse One Step Germicidal Detergent is a liquid concentrate specifically formulated for the disinfection of hard surfaces. The use-dilution can be applied manually or sprayed. Formulated to maintain an alkaline use-dilution pH of 10.4-10.6, they are ideal for use in a disinfectant rotation program with the LpH ® acidic family of products. HOW VESPHENE IISE ONE STEP GERMICIDAL DETERGENT WORKS.
Environ™ Vesphene™ st Sterile Phenolic Disinfectant. The Environ Vesphene phenolic disinfectant is made specifically for use on hard, non-porous surfaces and is formulated to deliver proven efficacy against a broad spectrum of microorganisms without harming common surface materials. Sign Up and.
Vesphene IIse Germicidal Detergent is a research developed, one step disinfectant cleaner and deodorizer which contains selected phenols blended with synthetic detergents and builders. Vesphene IIse Germicidal Detergent is intended for use in institutions such as hospitals, nursing homes, schools, medical and dental offices, pharmaceutical plants, and other indoor areas where disinfection, cleaning, and deodorizing are necessary.
Vesphene IIse Germicidal Detergent is a research developed, one step disinfectant cleaner and deodorizer which contains selected phenols blended with synthetic detergents and builders. SKU #: 646108. 
Vesphene II Disinfectant 1.28-Gal Ea. 1  Steris Vesphene II se Phenolic Disinfectant, 1 Gallon, 4/CS-The Vesphene formula is a one-step, alkaline phenolic cleaner/disinfectant made specifically for use on hard non-porous surfaces. 1 At a use-dilution rate of 1:128, Vesphene products kill a broad spectrum of common bacteria without harming the surface. 2  Formulated to maintain an alkaline use-dilution pH of 10.4-10.6, they are ideal for use in a disinfectant rotation program with the LpH® acidic family of products.
STERIS' Vesphene ® IIse One Step Germicidal Detergent is the non-sterile version of the Vesphene family of one-step, alkaline phenolic cleaner/disinfectants made specifically for use on hard non-porous surfaces. Formulated to maintain an alkaline use-dilution pH of 10.4-10.6, they are ideal for use in a disinfectant rotation program with the LpH ® acidic family of products. HOW VESPHENE IISE ONE STEP GERMICIDAL DETERGENT WORKS.