Junior firefighter programs help young people learn about local fire, rescue, and emergency medical services. Read more or register now ! 
Youth can use the program to locate a local junior firefighter program, keep track of their hours of service, and find other resources as a youth participant in the fire and emergency services. Learn more, register a program, and access resources at www.nvfc.org/juniors. The National Junior Firefighter Program provides fire/EMS departments with the resources, tools, and information to help develop, grow, enhance, and promote a local junior firefighter program.
Cadet and junior firefighter programs allow minors (youth ages 14 to 18) to learn about volunteer firefighting; train with experienced firefighters; and in some places, assist at fire scenes. Child labor laws that prohibit minors from engaging in hazardous work and limit work hours apply to these programs. DOL Guidance for Cadet/Junior Firefighter Programs. DOL initially issued a guidance letter for cadet/junior firefighters in 2004. This year representatives of the Commission on Fire Prevention and Control, the Connecticut Fire Chiefs Association, and DOL met to further develop the guidelines.
Junior firefighters may partake in a number of activities around the firehouse and while responding to an emergency. They can participate in a number of different safety training activities as long as an adult is present and as long as the situation is not hazardous and does not contain hazardous materials. Junior firefighters mostly take an observational role, acquire community service skills and learn what it means to be a volunteer (see Reference 1). In Pennsylvania, teenagers serving in this capacity must follow a set of guidelines and rules.
Answers. Best Answer: I know in the state of Pa. you can not do much as a junior firefighter as training goes. To become a Junior firefighter go to your vol. fire dept. The youngest you can be to join is 14. The most training in Pa. is HAZMAT R&I, the new Esstinals which gets you ready for Firefighter 1. [That class is rly cool bc you do not have to do have the stuff for ff1 (my gf is takeing it)]. The best thing to do is go to a fire station and ask to volunteer. It will be a junior volunteer until you are 18. Most fire companies will send you to receive your fire fighter I certification.
The requirements to be a junior firefighter are as follows: Junior firefighters must be in High School and 14 years to 18 years of age; they must be able to follow directions under stressful conditions; and they should be in good physical condition to perform essential fire ground tasks. The Fire Company is proud of its members. Junior members are expected to conduct themselves in a professional manner when representing the Fire Company. If you know someone that would like to become a Junior Firefighter call 732-775-9784 ext.
National Junior Firefighter Program. Getting youth involved in the fire and emergency services fosters the next generation of first responders and creates a network of community supporters of the emergency services. The National Junior Firefighter Program provides fire/EMS departments with the resources, tools, and information to help develop, grow, enhance, and promote a local junior firefighter program.
The NVFC National Junior Firefighter Program serves as an umbrella for junior firefighter programs nationwide to promote youth participation within the fire and emergency services community. The National Junior Firefighter Program provides fire/EMS departments with the resources, tools, and information to help develop, grow, enhance, and promote a local junior firefighter program.
If volunteering on a school day, junior firefighters ages 14 and 15 can work only four hours; any other day they can work eight hours with a maximum of 18 hours in a Monday through Friday period, with an additional eight hours on a Saturday or Sunday. Junior firefighters mostly take an observational role, acquire community service skills and learn what it means to be a volunteer (see Reference 1). In Pennsylvania, teenagers serving in this capacity must follow a set of guidelines and rules.