aeon. 1. a period of one thousand million years. 2. Gnosticism one of the powers emanating from the supreme being and culminating in the demiurge. 
Definition of AEON. 1. : an immeasurably or indefinitely long period of time: age. 2
Noun. 1. aeon - (Gnosticism) a divine power or nature emanating from the Supreme Being and playing various roles in the operation of the universe. eon. Gnosticism-a religious orientation advocating gnosis as the way to release a person's spiritual element; considered heresy by Christian churches. I have a dream of laying my head on your breast and sleeping an aeon or so, and the dream will come true ere another year is gone. Martin Eden by London, Jack View in context. I sighed, following the sartorial train of thought, even to the loathly arrows that had decorated my person once already for a little aeon.
In astronomy an aeon is defined as a billion years (10 9 years, abbreviated AE). Roger Penrose uses the word aeon to describe the period between successive and cyclic big bangs within the context of conformal cyclic cosmology. Christianity 's idea of  eternal life  comes from the word for life, zoe, and a form of aeon, which could mean life in the next aeon, the Kingdom of God, or Heaven, just as much as immortality, as in John 3:16.
This source of all being is an Aeon, in which an inner being dwells, known as Ennoea (thought, intent, Greek ἔννοια), Charis (grace, Greek χάρις), or Sige (silence, Greek σιγή). The split perfect being conceives the second Aeon, Nous (mind, Greek νους), within itself. ) Ennoea is one of several alternative names for the consort of the primary Aeon Bythos. For the somewhat different form in which Ptolemaeus presented this part of the system see Irenaeus (I. xii.
aeon. n. 1. an immeasurably long period of time; age. 2. (Astronomy) a period of one thousand million years. I have a dream of laying my head on your breast and sleeping an aeon or so, and the dream will come true ere another year is gone. Martin Eden by London, Jack View in context. I sighed, following the sartorial train of thought, even to the loathly arrows that had decorated my person once already for a little aeon.
Aeon can also refer to the four aeons on the Geologic Time Scale that make up the Earth's history, the Hadean, Archean, Proterozoic, and the current aeon Phanerozoic. Christianity 's idea of  eternal life  comes from the word for life, zoe, and a form of aeon, which could mean life in the next aeon, the Kingdom of God, or Heaven, just as much as immortality, as in John 3:16.
Aeons is a word used to describe a series of words without having to use many. Usually used to describe well-off Westside boys. The word originates from Final Fantasy, but has evolved over modern time to also include the above mentioned definition. 
αἰϝών) for age is present in words such as longevity and mediaeval. Although the term aeon may be used in reference to a period of a billion years (especially in geology, cosmology or astronomy), its more common usage is for any long, indefinite, period. Christianity 's idea of  eternal life  comes from the word for life, zoe, and a form of aeon, which could mean life in the next aeon, the Kingdom of God, or Heaven, just as much as immortality, as in John 3:16.
In many Gnostic systems, various emanations of  God  are known by such names as One, Monad, Aion teleos (αἰών τέλεος The Broadest Aeon), Bythos (depth or profundity, βυθός), Proarkhe (before the beginning, προαρχή), Arkhe (the beginning, ἀρχή), and Aeons. ) Ennoea is one of several alternative names for the consort of the primary Aeon Bythos. For the somewhat different form in which Ptolemaeus presented this part of the system see Irenaeus (I. xii.