And indoor tanning harms you in other ways as well. It can: 1  Cause skin damage, including wrinkling at a younger age than normal. 2  Make your immune system weaker. 3  Damage your eyes. 4  Give you a rash, if you are sensitive to sunlight. But their reasons may not be valid. 1  People may believe that indoor tanning can give them a base tan that protects them from getting a sunburn while outdoors. 2  But a tan is how your skin responds to injury-getting a tan is a sign that your skin has already been damaged.
Recommend on Facebook Tweet ShareCompartir. Using a tanning bed, booth, or sunlamp to get tan is called indoor tanning. Indoor tanning can cause skin cancers including melanoma (the deadliest type of skin cancer), basal cell carcinoma, and squamous cell carcinoma. Tanning indoors is not safer than tanning in the sun. Indoor tanning and tanning outside are both dangerous. Although indoor tanning devices operate on a timer, the exposure to UV rays can vary based on the age and type of light bulbs. Indoor tanning is designed to give you high levels of UV radiation in a short time
Understand how tanning works. Tanning is the process of cells in your skin protecting you from harmful UVA and UVB rays that come from the sun, not simply a pretty glow you get in the summer time. 1  UVA and UVB rays are a type of radiation linked to cancer. 
Indoor tanning is only moderately safe and you should only tan for a short amount of time and tanning should be regulated. Do not lie out in the sun for extensive hours to get a tan. You will save time and can minimize risk by tanning indoors. If you are still concerned, talk with your doctor about the risks of tanning during pregnancy and how to tan safely, in a tanning bed or with self tanning products. If you enjoy a golden tan, you can tan safely without fear of sunburns or skin cancer if you follow certain precautions. First, know your skin type.
1 People may believe that they can avoid sunburn by using indoor tanning. 2  But if you stay under the artificial light too long or at too high an intensity, you can get a sunburn. 3  People may say they use indoor tanning to get vitamin D in the winter, when there is less sunlight. But their reasons may not be valid. 1  People may believe that indoor tanning can give them a base tan that protects them from getting a sunburn while outdoors. 2  But a tan is how your skin responds to injury-getting a tan is a sign that your skin has already been damaged.
When people use a tanning bed or booth or a sunlamp to get a tan, it's called indoor tanning. Indoor tanning uses artificial ultraviolet A (UVA) and ultraviolet B (UVB) light, rather than sunlight, to tan the skin. But their reasons may not be valid. 1  People may believe that indoor tanning can give them a base tan that protects them from getting a sunburn while outdoors. 2  But a tan is how your skin responds to injury-getting a tan is a sign that your skin has already been damaged.
Print. Millions of Americans use tanning beds (sometimes called sunbeds) or sunlamps to maintain a year-round glow—or, increasingly, to get more vitamin D, which is produced when the skin is exposed to ultraviolet (UV) radiation, as from sunlight. Some sunlamps are marketed specifically for vitamin D production. 
Even though indoor tanning isn't safe, some people still use it. But their reasons may not be valid. 1  People may believe that indoor tanning can give them a base tan that protects them from getting a sunburn while outdoors. 2  But a tan is how your skin responds to injury-getting a tan is a sign that your skin has already been damaged.
A base tan does little to protect you from future damage to your skin caused by UV exposure. In fact, people who indoor tan are more likely to report getting sunburned. The best way to protect your skin from the sun is by using these tips for skin cancer prevention. Tanning indoors is not safer than tanning in the sun. Indoor tanning and tanning outside are both dangerous. Although indoor tanning devices operate on a timer, the exposure to UV rays can vary based on the age and type of light bulbs. Indoor tanning is designed to give you high levels of UV radiation in a short time