Welcome to Pescara Airport Sixt rent a car. Pescara is the most populous city of the Abruzzo Region and is also home to an important touristic port, the port of Pescara, and the Abruzzo International Airport, the largest and most important in the Region.
1 The airport is connected to the center of Pescara and Chieti with the company ARPA (Regional Public Bus Abruzzo) Chieti-Pescara line with which you can reach the university center G. 2  D'Annunzio in Chieti Scalo. 1 Coming from Bari-Foggia: Autostrada A14 (Italy) Chieti-Pescara Ovest exit, turn immediately right (twice) to get onto Strada statale 5 Via Tiburtina Valeria in the direction of Pescara, then walk about 6km (3.7 miles) until you reach the airport.
The closest major airport to Pescara, Italy is Abruzzo Airport (PSR / LIBP). This airport is 6 km from the center of Pescara, Italy. If you're looking for international or domestic flights to PSR, check the airlines that fly to PSR. Search for direct flights from your hometown and find hotels near Pescara, Italy, or scroll down for more international airports or domestic airports. You can also browse local airports if you're a pilot.
Pescara Airport. Pescara-Airport is one of the major airports in Italy. It is an international airport with more than 0.6m passengers per year (incoming, outgoing and transit). The runways are located 16 hours away from London and from here the shortest possible connection is a 2 Stop Over flight. To have a look at the Pescara-Airport Flight Information please check the Arrivals & Departures section. And if you plan to visit Italy please keep in mind that the official currency is Euro. Just use the currency converter in the field Money. Airport. 1  Pescara Airport. 2  Passengers per Year 563,187 (2013).
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Abruzzo Airport (IATA: PSR, ICAO: LIBP) is an airport located near Pescara, Italy. It is located approximately 4 km (2.5 miles) from the centre of Pescara, about 180 km (112 miles) from Rome, a 2-hour drive by car on a motorway across the Appennine mountains. 1 Coming from Bari-Foggia: Autostrada A14 (Italy) Chieti-Pescara Ovest exit, turn immediately right (twice) to get onto Strada statale 5 Via Tiburtina Valeria in the direction of Pescara, then walk about 6km (3.7 miles) until you reach the airport.
To the immediate south of the mouth of the river is the marina. Pescara has also an important international airport, called Abruzzo Airport and one of the most important and major touristic ports of Adriatic Sea and Italy, the Port of Pescara. Pescara is the most populous city in the Abruzzo region, and is one of the top ten economic, commercial, and tourist centers on the Adriatic coast. Featuring a shoreline that extends for more than 20 km (12 mi), Pescara is a popular seaside resort on the Adriatic coast during summer.
Pescara Airport. Pescara Airport is also known as Abruzzo International Airport. Take the short 10 minute drive to the centre of Pescara in your hire car and enjoy the local markets and the charismatic old town of Pescara Porto. The IATA code for Pescara Airport is PSR. Find out more about driving in italy, or read our Italian travel guide. You may also like to view information about other destinations in Italy or read our guide to skiing in Italy
Pescara [pesˈkaːra] listen (help·info) is the capital city of the Province of Pescara, in the Abruzzo region of Italy. As of 1 January 2007 it was the most populated city within Abruzzo at 123,059 residents, approximately 450,000 including the surrounding metropolitan area. Pescara is the most populous city in the Abruzzo region, and is one of the top ten economic, commercial, and tourist centers on the Adriatic coast. Featuring a shoreline that extends for more than 20 km (12 mi), Pescara is a popular seaside resort on the Adriatic coast during summer.