Your brain's wrinkled surface is a specialized outer layer of the cerebrum called the cortex. Scientists have mapped the cortex by identifying areas strongly linked to certain functions.
To From Subject Comments. Cortex, in plants, tissue of unspecialized cells lying between the epidermis (surface cells) and the vascular, or conducting, tissues of stems and roots. Cortical cells may contain stored carbohydrates or other substances such as resins, latex, essential oils, and tannins.
The cerebral cortex is the cerebrum 's (brain) outer layer of neural tissue in humans and other mammals. It is divided into two cortices, along the sagittal plane: the left and right cerebral hemispheres divided by the medial longitudinal fissure.
Each of the two hemispheres of the brain's cerebral cortex consists of four lobes. Although there is some overlap among these sections, each has distinct functions. The front portion is the frontal lobe, which controls voluntary movement, planning, organizational skills, and abstract thinking.
The Cerebrum: The cerebrum or cortex is the largest part of the human brain, associated with higher brain function such as thought and action. The cerebral cortex is divided into four sections, called lobes: the frontal lobe, parietal lobe, occipital lobe, and temporal lobe.
The cerebral cortex consists of four lobes; frontal lobe, parietal lobe, temporal lobe, and occipital lobe. The cerebral cortex is a highly convoluted or folded outer layer of the cerebrum.
Location: Directionally, the cerebrum and the cortex that covers it is the uppermost part of the brain. It is superior to other structures such as the pons, cerebellum and medulla oblongata.
The cortex (thin layer of tissue) is gray because nerves in this area lack the insulation that makes most other parts of the brain appear to be white. The cortex covers the outer portion (1.5mm to 5mm) of the cerebrum and cerebellum. The portion of the cortex that covers the cerebrum is called the cerebral cortex.