Testing: Testing is the process or procedure to determines the quality of a product. Quality: The term quality refers the excellence of a product. When we say the quality of a product is good. We mean that the product is good for the purpose for which it has been made. Control: To check or verify and hence to regulate. Quality Control: Quality control is the synthetic and regular control of the variable which affect the quality of a product. The operational techniques and activities that sustain the quality of a product or service in order to satisfy given requirements.
The Martindale abrasion test is an international standard and widely accepted throughout the world as a reliable means of determining a fabric’s ability to withstand abrasion and pilling. It was developed for the express purpose of testing woven and knit fabrics. This abrasion testing method has been modified to test all types of materials against abrasion. In its various iterations, the test can be used to test clothing textiles, leather, upholstery fabric, automotive tires and floor covering.
Oeko-Tex Standard 100 or Öko-öko Tex standard (100 sometime Misspelled) oktex is an independent testing and certification system for textile products from all stages of (production, fibres, yarns, fabrics-ready-to use end, products including) accessories along the textile value. chain The global standard is issued by the International Association for Research and Testing in the Field of Textile Ecology (Oeko-Tex) with headquarters in Zurich (Switzerland). It currently includes 15 neutral test and research institutes in Europe and Japan with contact offices in over 60 countries around the world.
Eco-Textile Testing-The trend of green consumerism has extended to textile and apparel products. Major European and U.S. textile product buyers have responded to this public awareness by viewing their textile products from an ecological standpoint, and are establishing relevant requirements. Performance Testing-Intertek offers a variety of tests meeting specific performance standards related to consumer end use of textile products, including: 1  Dimensional Stability to Washing and Dry cleaning.
A type of material composed of natural or synthetic fibers. Types of textiles include animal-based material such as wool or silk, plant-based material such as linen and cotton, and synthetic material such as polyester and rayon. Textiles are often associated with the production of clothing. 
In addition to the textile testing solutions stated above, Intertek also offers a full suite of services for each and every chemical found in your product including toxicity assessments, chemical certification and quality assurance solutions. Performance Testing-Intertek offers a variety of tests meeting specific performance standards related to consumer end use of textile products, including: 1  Dimensional Stability to Washing and Dry cleaning.
Abrasion Testing. In the interiors fabric industry there are two different methods of testing that are typically used to measure a fabric’s ability to withstand abrasion. One is known as the “Martindale” and the other is known as the “Wyzenbeek”. This abrasion testing method has been modified to test all types of materials against abrasion. In its various iterations, the test can be used to test clothing textiles, leather, upholstery fabric, automotive tires and floor covering.
Testing is a valuable aid for textile production, distribution, and consumption. During textiles testing the variation of a fibre or fabric i.e. length, colour, fineness, threads per inch, cover factor, is detected properly. Continuous test of the textiles results a enhanced and efficient output of the production. By Apparel Testing we can evaluate and ensure the quality of the garments to be used by the end users.