The history of FGM is not well known but the practice dated back at least 2000 years. It is not known when or where the tradition of Female Genital Mutilation originated from. It was believed that it was practised in ancient Egypt as a sign of distinction amongst the aristocracy. Some believe it started during the slave trade when black slave women entered ancient Arab societies. Some believe FGM began with the arrival of Islam in some parts of sub-Saharan Africa.
Female genital mutilation (FGM), also known as female genital cutting and female circumcision, is the ritual removal of some or all of the external female genitalia. According to the researchers, the most common form of FGM in Egypt is Type I. The study found that, between 2000 and 2009, 3,711 of the subjects had undergone FGM, giving a prevalence rate of 89.2 percent. The incidence rate was 9.6 percent in 2000.
Until the 1980s FGM was widely known as female circumcision, which implied an equivalence in severity with male circumcision. The Kenya Missionary Council began referring to it as the sexual mutilation of women in 1929, following the lead of Marion Scott Stevenson, a Church of Scotland missionary. According to the researchers, the most common form of FGM in Egypt is Type I. The study found that, between 2000 and 2009, 3,711 of the subjects had undergone FGM, giving a prevalence rate of 89.2 percent. The incidence rate was 9.6 percent in 2000.
The practice of male genital mutilation is far older than recorded history. Certainly, it is far older than the Biblical account of Abraham (Genesis 17). It seems to have originated in eastern Africa long before this time. Many theories have been advanced to explain the origin of genital mutilation. 
Female Genital Mutilation can also be called Female Genital Cutting or Female Circumcision.Although the practice predates the birth of Islam, it has taken on a dimension of the religion. 1 Sunna Circumcision (Type I)- The tip of a woman's clitoris is shaved or cut off. 2  The word sunna refers to Muhammed's early tradition of the practice. 3  This form of Female Genital Mutilation can be found in many countries in both East and West Africa, and countries in the Middle East.
Female genital mutilation may be practiced in different cultures and religions, however, it is not supported by the written word or history of any of the participants. For example, in East Africa, where the strongest concentration of population in the world that practices FGM is located, has a strong Muslim basis. In the Muslim culture there are two main sources of law, and. , neither of which make any reference to FGM and therefore can not advocate it either. She is one of the 6,000 girls genitally mutilated daily in East Africa and to date,114 million women have already experienced this mutilation in East Africa alone (Dorkenoo 1994, p123). Female Genital Mutilation (FGM) originally began in Egypt as a type of ceremony for young women entering puberty. The ancient Egyptians practiced a form of FGM called infibulation, also known as Pharaonic Circumcision.. The Romans populated much of Egypt at this time and the term infibulation originated with them
It is, however, a practice that is performed across cultures and religions, and should not be considered to be strictly a religious practice, but also a cultural one. There are many beliefs that add to the supposed reasons for the existence of Female Genital Mutilation. The cultures that practice the surgery do it for many different reasons. The following is a list of most of them found on a website: 1 Sunna Circumcision (Type I)- The tip of a woman's clitoris is shaved or cut off. 2  The word sunna refers to Muhammed's early tradition of the practice. 3  This form of Female Genital Mutilation can be found in many countries in both East and West Africa, and countries in the Middle East.
(I believe it was actually only after the early 1990s that female circumcision was made illegal). Anyways, the male circumcision rates peaked in the USA in 1960-ish at about 85-90%. Since then, it has been steadily on the decline, and the rates are now at around 40% of baby boys circumcised. 