The jerboa are native to the Eastern Gobi Desert Steppe, the Junggar Basin and the Tian Shan Range. The central Asian viper, one of the most dangerous snakes in the Gobi because of its aggressiveness and highly toxic venom. Typically about two feet in length, the central Asian viper has a buff to reddish to olive color with variable patterning and a light colored belly with distinct to faint brown dots.
The Gobi desert, one of the world's great deserts, covers much of the southern part of Mongolia. Unlike the Sahara there are few sand dunes in the Gobi; rather you'll find large barren expenses of gravel plains and rocky outcrops. The climate here is extreme. Temperatures reach +40° C. in summer, and -40 in winter.
The Sahara (the world's largest and hottest desert, with temperatures reaching 57.6°C (136°F) and the Atacama (the world's driest desert) on the coast of Chile and the Kalahari in Africa were formed in this way. The Gobi Desert is a cold winter desert and daytime temperatures can drop to -30°C (22°F).
Here is the list for one of the top most dangerous and largest deserts in the world. Desert can be define as countryside or section that collects an exceedingly near to the ground amount of rainfall a smaller amount than adequate to prop up intensification of the majority of the plants.
The Gobi Desert straddles the China-Mongolia border, and holds landscapes ranging from sand and bare rock to grassy steppe. The Gobi is one of the world’s most abundant sources of dust. Dust storms tend to be the most frequent in the springtime, especially March and April.
The Gobi desert is also home to the golden eagle, which is a large and powerful bird of prey. With a wingspan of 1.8 to 2.3 meters, this raptor has darker plumage with hints of white on the tail. This may fade as the bird ages. In the wild, a golden eagle can live up to the age of 18 years.
The Gobi Desert is dangerous and dry. There is a little water, but is rare, and an oasis is very rare. The Taklamakan Desert, China's other desert, is the second largest desert in the world. It's nickname is the Sea of Death. Sand storms whip up frequency, and without warning.