Caprine Arthritic Encephalitis (CAE), discovered by researchers at Washington State University over 20 years ago, is a viral infection in goats which can cause encephalitis in kids and chronic joint disease in adults. The elusive nature of CAE complicates the goat raiser's ability to control the disease. Researchers at Washington State University found that 80% of the dairy goats which they tested carried the virus, while a smaller percentage displayed clinical (visible) symptoms of the disease. However, CAE is not unique to dairy goats, although it has been most commonly associated with dairy breeds in the past.
Caprine arthritis encephalitis is a viral disease of goats that is caused by the caprine arthritis encephalitis virus (CAEV). CAEV is a lentivirus, and one of several lentiviruses in the family Retroviridae. 
Since not all goats that become infected with CAE virus progress to disease, it is important to routinely test goats for infection by means of a serology test which detects viral antibodies in the serum. Caprine Arthritis Encephalitis (CAE) Virus. Caprine arthritis encephalitis (CAE) is a viral infection of goats which may lead to chronic disease of the joints and on rare occasions encephalitis in goat kids less then six months of age.
Caprine arthritis encephalitis (CAE) virus is a member of the small ruminant lentiviruses (also includes ovine progressive pneumonia, or OPP, of sheep), which may lead to chronic disease of the joints, and on rare occasions, encephalitis in goat kids less than six months of age. 8. A positive result means the goat has been infected with the CAE virus and has made antibodies reactive with the CAE antigens used in this test. This goat is regarded as potentially contagious for the virus, especially if lactating.
Why Your Goat Herd Should be CAE Free. CAE stands for Caprine Arthritis Encephalitis. It is a virus that affects goats and not humans. Goats pass CAE to each other via infected colostrum, milk, or blood. It is not passed from feces, breeding, or sharing food and water. Fortunately, it is one that is easily prevented. To raise goats on CAE prevention means pulling the kids at birth and never allowing them to nurse from their dams. You must heat treat colostrum and pasteurize milk and bottle feed it to the kids. Heat treating colostrum is a tedious and laborious process.
What is CAE? Caprine arthritis-encephalitis (CAE) is a group of diseases caused by caprine arthritis-encephalitis virus (CAEV). Diseases include encephalitis (infection of the brain) in kids, and arthritis in adult goats. Encephalitis usually shows up as a progressive paralysis. Eventually, kids are unable to stand. 
CAE and CL tests for goats. Caprine arthritis encephalitis (CAE) and Caseous Lymphadenitis (CL) are a big issue in the goat world. We test our goats frequently and strongly recommend CAE and CL tests for everybody who raises goats. 
There are goat breeders out there who do not practice CAE prevention. They may believe that it is not humane to bottle raise or that CAE is not a real disease. They have every right to believe that and maintain their herd how they wish, but you do not want to start your life with goats with this disease. Fortunately, it is one that is easily prevented. To raise goats on CAE prevention means pulling the kids at birth and never allowing them to nurse from their dams. You must heat treat colostrum and pasteurize milk and bottle feed it to the kids. Heat treating colostrum is a tedious and laborious process.
Clinical signs are seen in ~20% of CAE virus–infected goats during their lifetime. The most common manifestation of infection is polysynovitis-arthritis, which is primarily seen in adult goats but can occur in kids as young as 6 mo old. 