Mathea is a form of the name Matthew. In use since the Middle Ages, Matthew is the English form of the Greek name Matthaios, which is in turn is a form of the earlier Hebrew name Mattityahu (מַתִּתְיָהוּ). The name Matthew is derived from the Hebrew elements mattaht meaning gift and yahu meaning G-d. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 13946 in baby name popularity for girls with 7 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Mathea Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Mathea has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Mathea to other names.
[ 3 syll. mat-hea, ma-th-ea ] The baby girl name Mathea is pronounced as M AE DHiyAH †. Mathea has its origins in the Hebrew language. It is used largely in English and Scandinavian. Mathea is a variant form of the English and Italian Mattea. Mathea is not commonly used as a baby girl name. It is not in the top 1000 names. 
Mathea /math-ea/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name. Mathea's root is Hebrew, and the meaning of Mathea is gift of God. Mathea is an alternate form of Mattea (Hebrew): feminine of Matthew. Compare surname Mathew. See also Thea. Mathea is a rare first name for females. Mathea is a unique surname too for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is a comparison of the usage of the girl name Mathea and affiliated names.
Mathea is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 6 letters and 3 syllables and is pronounced Ma-the-a. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 13946 in baby name popularity for girls with 7 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Mathea Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Mathea has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Mathea to other names.
Meanings and history of the name Mathea: | Edit. Ganja, Gift of god or Angel/ Angel plant. One of the most uncommon names in Eastern Europe, 'Mathea' was originally slang for the narcotic marijuana aka 'ganja' in the earlier centuries. Today it is still recognised as the narcotic but also as Gift of God and Angel.
Matthea /mat-thea/ [2 sylls.] as a name for girls is of Hebrew origin, and the meaning of Matthea is gift of God. Matthea is a variant transcription of Mattea (Hebrew): feminine of Matthew. Matthei is a familiar last name. Matthea is an equally unusual surname for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the baby name popularity of Matthea for girls. Matthea has not been listed in the Top 1000 thus far.