Limited liability partnerships are distinct from limited partnerships in some countries, which may allow all LLP partners to have limited liability, while a limited partnership may require at least one unlimited partner and allow others to assume the role of a passive and limited liability investor. LLP is different from Limited partnership.It operates like a limited partnership, but in llp each member of the is protected from personal liability, except to the extent of their capital contribution in the LLP. 1.
A limited liability partnership (LLP) is a partnership in which some or all partners (depending on the jurisdiction) have limited liabilities. It therefore exhibits elements of partnerships and corporations. In an LLP, one partner is not responsible or liable for another partner's misconduct or negligence. LLP is different from Limited partnership.It operates like a limited partnership, but in llp each member of the is protected from personal liability, except to the extent of their capital contribution in the LLP. 1.
Limited Liability for Partners. All partners in an LLP enjoy limited liability from business obligations and wrongdoing by the other partners. This is particularly important for professionals so that one professional in the partnership is not held responsible for malpractice committed by another partner. LLPs Formed Under State Law. An LLP is a special type of general partnership that you must register with the state. However, states differ in how they treat LLPs. Some states restrict the use of the LLP structure to professionals, such as lawyers and accountants.
The limited liability partnership (LLP) is a special type of partnership that provides personal liability protection to everyone involved. It should not be confused with limited partnerships or limited liability companies, which are different types of business structures. LLPs Formed Under State Law. An LLP is a special type of general partnership that you must register with the state. However, states differ in how they treat LLPs. Some states restrict the use of the LLP structure to professionals, such as lawyers and accountants.
Limited Liability Partnership (LLP). An LLP is a form of ownership in which all the partners receive limited liability protection. However, an LLP is similar to a general partnership in that all the partners can take an active role in managing the day-to-day affairs of the business. The LLP form of ownership is limited in the State of California to persons licensed to practice in the fields of public accountancy, law, or architecture. An LLP is a form of ownership in which all the partners receive limited liability protection
There are a few differences in the formation of an LLC and LLP. Both are formed through articles of organization or articles of formation, and each usually is run based on an operating agreement. The differences are in how the members or partners buy in, sell out and add or remove members or partners. However, in an LLC the members are not protected from the liability of another member, but an LLP does give this protection. For instance, if an LLC member in an engineering practice makes a client error that is legally actionable, the LLC and all of its members can be held liable.
The limited liability partnership (LLP) is a similar business structure but it has no general partners. All of the owners of an LLP have limited personal liability for business debts. 
An LLC is a limited liability company, sometimes referred to as a limited liability corporation, and an LLP is a limited liability partnership. Both legal entities are relatively new in the business world, and both share aspects of a corporation and a partnership. However, in an LLC the members are not protected from the liability of another member, but an LLP does give this protection. For instance, if an LLC member in an engineering practice makes a client error that is legally actionable, the LLC and all of its members can be held liable.