A. Community characteristics. 1. Factors shaping community structure-community = association of interacting populations of different species living together in a particular habitat-habitat = place where an organism lives; characterized by distinctive physical features and vegetation. - factors to consider: 2
A community is a set of interacting groups of organisms. Those organisms and their abiotic environment constitute an ecosystem. In an ecosystem, energy flows from producers through various trophic levels of consumers (herbivores, carnivores, omnivores, and decomposers). Chapter Summary. Everything that affects an organism during its lifetime is collectively known as its environment. The environment of an organism can be divided into biotic (living) and abiotic (nonliving or physical) components. The space an organism occupies is known as its habitat, and the role it plays in its environment is known as its niche. The niche of an organism is the result of natural selection directing the adaptation of the organism to a specific set of environmental conditions
Ecology: Study of interactions of living organisms with one another and with their physical environment. Habitat: place where a particular population of a species lives. Community: the many different species that live together in a habitat. Ecosystem: a community and all of the physical aspects of its habitat (soil, air, water, weather. 
2.1. biotic factor-A living, biological factor that may influence an organism or ecosystem, such as producers-plants,consumers-animals etc. abiotic factors – A non-living or physical factor that may influence an organism or ecosystem. population-A group of organisms of the same species living in the same area at the same time, and which are capable of interbreeding. community-A group of populations living and interacting with each other in a common habitat. ecosystem-A community of interdependent organisms and the physical environment they inhabit. habitat-The environment in which a species normally lives. niche-A species' share of a habitat and the resources in it. An organism's ecological niche depends not only on where it lives but on the role it plays in the
A community unit with a relationship between its physical  environment is called an ecosystem. An ecosystem contains both  abiotic and biotic factors. 1 person found this useful. Edit. 
Trophic level-The position that an organism occupies in a food chain, or a group of organisms in a community that occupy the same position in food chains. And is mainly considered as feeding level. Producers/Autotrophs-Organisms that make their own food. Usually plants through photosynthesis. population-A group of organisms of the same species living in the same area at the same time, and which are capable of interbreeding. community-A group of populations living and interacting with each other in a common habitat. ecosystem-A community of interdependent organisms and the physical environment they inhabit. habitat-The environment in which a species normally lives. niche-A species' share of a habitat and the resources in it. An organism's ecological niche depends not only on where it lives but on the role it plays in the ecosystem
A community unit with a relationship between its physical  environment is called an ecosystem. An ecosystem contains both  abiotic and biotic factors. 
Population: A group of organisms, all of the same species, and all of whom live together in a particular habitat. Community: The total of all populations living together in a particular habitat. Niche: The position occupied by an organism in a particular ecosystem, dependent upon the resources it uses. 