Some of the videos have even received international media recognition. Gangnam Style is a 2012 Korean Pop single sung by the South Korean rapper Psy. It is widely praised worldwide for its humor, catchy rhythm as well as Psy's unusual dance moves, unofficially called The Horse Dance. The song was released on July 15, 2012, when it debuted at number one on the Gaon Chart. 
Ever wonder what is your music style? This quiz will not only tell you, but will also give you some suggestions on what is your perfect song! 
A lullaby or cradle-song, also spelled cradle song, is a soothing song or piece of music, usually played or sung to children of all ages or adults. The purposes of lullabies vary. In some societies they are used to pass down cultural knowledge or tradition. Lullabies written by established classical composers are often given the form-name berceuse, which is French for lullaby, or cradle song. The most famous lullaby is the one by Johannes Brahms ( Wiegenlied , 1868).
Consider what it is for. Before you begin composing your song, you will need to consider what it is for. What the purpose of the song is, what type of song it is, will significantly impact the writing process. You should plan accordingly. 1  If you will be writing a song with lyrics, you will need to consider that while you are writing the song. This tune should be the essence of the song and will be what you build everything else off of. 1  One starting point would be the melody. 2  This is the basic line of music, usually thought of as the “singable” part of a song. 3  This is a tune which you can easily write lyrics to and build off of.
Style  is a song by American singer-songwriter Taylor Swift and is the third track from her fifth studio album, 1989 (2014). The song was written by Taylor Swift, Max Martin, Shellback, and Ali Payami. It was released to radio by Republic Records, in partnership with Swift's label Big Machine Records, on February 13, 2015, as the album's third single, following  Blank Space .. Style has a tempo of 95 beats per minute and is written in the key of D major. Jason Lipshutz from Billboard characterized Style as a  James Dean-evoking pop rock song.
Lullaby by Francois François Nicholas (riss). Fr a lullaby or-cradle, song also spelled cradle, song is a soothing song or piece of, music usually played or sung to children of all ages or. Adults the purposes of lullabies. Vary in some societies they are used to pass down cultural knowledge or. tradition Lullabies written by established classical composers are often given the form-name berceuse, which is French for lullaby, or cradle song. The most famous lullaby is the one by Johannes Brahms ( Wiegenlied , 1868).
In a less enthusiastic review, The Independent called the song desperately inclusive electropop grooves and corporate rebel cliches clichés of, songs though a certain piquancy is. Apparent Pitchfork media Named style the 50th best song of. 2014 Style has a tempo of 95 beats per minute and is written in the key of D major. Jason Lipshutz from Billboard characterized Style as a  James Dean-evoking pop rock song.
Godnatsang (Goodnight Song) – This is a popular lullaby that was composed (lyrics and music) by Sigurd Barrett (born 1967), pianist, composer and host of a children's TV programme in Denmark, and fellow musician Steen Nikolaj Hansen. Lullabies written by established classical composers are often given the form-name berceuse, which is French for lullaby, or cradle song. The most famous lullaby is the one by Johannes Brahms ( Wiegenlied , 1868).
For other uses, see Song (disambiguation) . A song is an artistic form of expression based on sound, generally considered a single (and often standalone) work of music with distinct and fixed pitches, pattern, and form. Written words created specifically for music or for which music is specifically created, are called lyrics. If poetry, a pre-existing poem, is set to composed music, that is an art song. Songs that are sung on repeated pitches without distinct contours and patterns that rise and fall are called chants.