The tomatillo (Physalis philadelphica), also known as the Mexican husk tomato, is a plant of the nightshade family bearing small, spherical and green or green-purple fruit of the same name. History [edit]. Tomatillos were domesticated in Mexico before the coming of Europeans, and played an important part in the culture of the Maya and the Aztecs, more important than the tomato. The specific name philadelphica dates from the 18th century.
The tomatillo (from Nahuatl, tomatl) is also known as husk tomato, Mexican husk tomato, or ground cherry. These names, however, can also refer to other species in the Physalis genus. Other names are Mexican green tomato and miltomate. History [edit]. Tomatillos were domesticated in Mexico before the coming of Europeans, and played an important part in the culture of the Maya and the Aztecs, more important than the tomato. The specific name philadelphica dates from the 18th century.
No Follow. Sometimes called Mexican green tomatoes, the tomatillo looks like a small green tomato with a papery covering or husk. It is in the same family as a tomato, but tomatillas have a distinctive tart flavor. For a tomatillo substitute, buy underripe tomatoes and add a squeeze of lime juice. You can buy tomatillos in Latin-American markets year round as well as in many specialty stores and some supermarkets.
Tomatillos may resemble green tomatoes slightly, but they’re a completely different fruit. They do belong to the nightshade family — the same family that is home to eggplant, tomatoes and potatoes — but they have a very different flavor than tomatoes. Tomatillos are common to Mexican cuisine. They can be used raw, as in this green tomatillo salad or cooked in a roasted tomatillo salsa or enchiladas verde. Not all tomatillo recipes are Latin influenced either; this green linguine combines a variety of influences, including Italian. If you can’t find them in Latin stores, you can grow your own tomatillos
Tomatillos. Photo © Molly Watson. Tomatillos look like small green tomatoes (of which they are a distant relative) covered with a papery husk. They have a bright, lemon-like flavor perfect with spicy food or alongside grilled items. They can also add a nice hit of acid to stews and other heavy fare. 
People confuse the Mexican Husk tomato with the green tomato because once you remove the papery parchment-like skin they resemble the size and shape of small green tomatoes. The tomatillo is a vegetable member of the nightshade family, along with the common eggplant, morning glory, and the potato. You can find the tomatillo masquerading with other common names as the Mexican Husk Tomato, Ground Cherry, Mexican Green Tomato or even the Husk Berry.
Tomatillo, also known as tomate, is a small spherical shaped berry in the tomato family of fruits. Tomate, chiefly employed as a vegetable, was originated in Mexico and was cultivated by the Aztecs centuries before the Spanish explorers introduced it elsewhere. 
Tomatillo Equivalent: 1 pound fresh tomatillos = 1 (11-ounce) can of tomatillos. Growing Tomatillos: When growing your own, they are ripe when the tomatillo fills out its papery husk but are still green in color. If they turn yellow, they are still useable but at this stage loose much of their tangy flavor. Rinse before using as the tomatillo is covered by a sticky substance. Do not peel the green skin. Cooking Tomatillos: Tomatillos can by very inconsistent in flavor, with some being sour and others tasting mild and sweet. If the tomatillos are to tart for your taste, try adding a little sugar to balance the taste.
Tomatillos are small, round fruits resembling little tomatoes bearing a papery outer covering. They are members of the nightshade family, along with tomatoes, potatoes, and peppers. Set aside two tomatillos, 1/2 green pepper, and two scallions. Chop the remaining tomatillos, scallions, and peppers. In a food processor, puree purée the chopped, vegetables, garlic and lime juice until. Smooth add vegetable stock and season to taste with, salt, pepper and. sugar