Trex® decks come in many styles, colors and textures. When you make the shift to Trex Elevations Steel Deck Framing, you get high–performance, low–maintenance, dual–coated galvanized steel that won’t sag, rot, warp or leave you hanging like traditional pressure–treated wood substructures. Traditionally made from wood flour and PVC, a composite deck can last for years and does not require staining, sanding or sealing. Composite decks are fire and water resistant and come in many different styles, grains and colors.
Trex Accents is available in Saddle, Madeira, Woodland Brown and Winchester Grey. Trex Contours closely follows these colors, with the only difference being that Woodland Brown is not offered in this style. Trex Brasilia offers luxury colors, such as Burnished Amber, Cayenne and Espresso. Timber Tech composite decking can be found in the following colors: Mountain Cedar, River Rock, Sand Ridge, Desert Bronze, Rustic Bark, Rosewood, Teak, Walnut, Cedar, Grey and Redwood. These are available at dealers located throughout the country.
Due to the nature and process of producing composite materials it should be expected that color variation between Trex Composite Fencing components may occur and in some cases may be significant. Trex Fencing is produced from a variety of recycled plastic and wood fibers that may absorb pigments differently. Woodland Brown. Woodland Brown is the darkest Trex fencing color. It is a dark brown. Woodland Brown fades the least from its new color. It is often popular as a contrast to lighter colors on the property.
No screws, no screw holes, nothing to interrupt the smooth texture and comfortable feel of your new Trex deck. ALL 6 COLORS: Vintage Lantern, Tree House, Gravel Path, Fire Pit, Classic White and Charcoal Black. COLOR TIP Add dimension to your Woodland Brown deck with a Transcend Railing in Charcoal Black. Composite Decking & Railing 15 ALWAYS GREEN: Trex® has engineered a way for even the recyclables to work simpatico: The plastic shields the wood from moisture and insect damage, preventing rotting and splintering, while the wood protects the plastic from UV damage and provides a natural, attractive look and feel.
While a deck out back is great for a quiet escape, the front porch invites local company to come sit a spell. It's the perfect welcome mat to your home. These porch systems offer a comprehensive selection of premier porch components with endless mix-and-match color options. Get creative with customizable components, including railing and post selections in great colors for your one-of-a-kind porch design. 1  Personalize your porch's look with rich, lasting colors. 2  Improve the curb appeal of your home. 3  Enjoy a fade-, stain-, scratch-and mold-resistant finish.
Easy to forget. Our business was built on the invention and perfection of wood-alternative composite decking. And although we’ve expanded our outdoor offerings through the years, the enduring beauty and hassle-free maintenance of our decking and railing materials still inspires every innovation. Start browsing our collection of information and resources on the revolutionary products at the heart of the world’s #1 decking brand.
Trex. Trex composite decking is available in a wide range of colors. Focusing mainly on wood grained tints, each color is offered in a weathered and unweathered version to suit your needs. In addition, there are three different color lines offered by Trex, giving a wider range of possibilities. Timber Tech composite decking can be found in the following colors: Mountain Cedar, River Rock, Sand Ridge, Desert Bronze, Rustic Bark, Rosewood, Teak, Walnut, Cedar, Grey and Redwood. These are available at dealers located throughout the country.
COLOR TIP Up the rustic charm of your Contours deck in Saddle with the ruddy warmth of a Madeira railing. Equally stunning is Winchester Grey decking with the same colored railing. 4 COLORS: Saddle, Woodland Brown, Winchester Grey and Madeira. COLOR TIP A Winchester Grey deck highlights the natural wood grain. Composite Decking & Railing 15 ALWAYS GREEN: Trex® has engineered a way for even the recyclables to work simpatico: The plastic shields the wood from moisture and insect damage, preventing rotting and splintering, while the wood protects the plastic from UV damage and provides a natural, attractive look and feel.
ARBORCOAT Premium Exterior Stain. ARBORCOAT Premium Exterior Stains offer a variety of opacities in an array of captivating colors that let you express your own unique style. These finishes are designed to enhance the appearance of your deck, siding, or outdoor wood furniture with outstanding color retention. 
Like all Trex products, Transcend won’t rot, warp, crack or splinter – and upkeep is hassle-free. The product requires no sanding, staining or painting, and its protective shell defends against fading while being extremely low maintenance. In fact, spills wash off easily with just soap and water. 