The international human rights movement essentially began with the creation of the United Nations (UN) in 1945. Both the human rights movement and the creation of the United Nations were responses to the barbarous acts and feelings of insecurity that characterized World War II. 
The Universal Declaration was adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations on 10 December 1948. Motivated by the experiences of the preceding world wars, the Universal Declaration was the first time that countries agreed on a comprehensive statement of inalienable human rights. Australia played an important role in the development of the Universal Declaration. Click here to find out more.
On December 10, 1948 UDHR was adopted by 56 members of the United Nations where the vote was unanimous although eight nations choose to abstain. UDHR was proclaimed as important document closely linked with peace, a landmark for protecting the rights and dignity of people and beginning of a system. The document was prepared by Chairperson of the Commission on Human Rights and group of researcher’s. Also referred as the international Magna Carta UDHR was formed by 18 UN members from various political, cultural and religious backgrounds that read: “Man’s desire for peace lies behind this Declaration.
The Universal Declaration of Human Rights is a declaration adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations on December 10, 1948. It states that the recognition of human … dignity is the foundation for justice and peace in the world. 4 people found this useful. Answered. The purpose of the Universal Declaration Of Human Rights, is to  ensure that every human being is entitled to basic rights and  fundamental freedoms. It was adopted by the G … eneral Assembly of the  United Nations on 10 December 1948. 2
1 Text, Audio, and Video excerpt of Eleanor Roosevelt's Address to the United Nations on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. 2  Animated presentation of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights by Amnesty International on YouTube (in English duration 20 minutes and 23 seconds). The Universal Declaration of Human Rights Drafting Committee was chaired by Eleanor Roosevelt, who was known for her human rights advocacy. Canadian John Peters Humphrey was called upon by the United Nations Secretary-General to work on the project and became the Declaration's principal drafter.
Eleanor Roosevelt looks at the first printed copy of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Photo: United Nations. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) was adopted after the end of World War II on 10 December 10, 1948 by United Nation (UN) General Assembly in Paris. UDHR was adopted after the world was drenched with atrocities by promising that war and conflict of such kind would never exist. The document was prepared by Chairperson of the Commission on Human Rights and group of researcher’s. Also referred as the international Magna Carta UDHR was formed by 18 UN members from various political, cultural and religious backgrounds that read: “Man’s desire for peace lies behind this Declaration.
The Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) is a declaration adopted by the United Nations General Assembly on 10 December 1948 at the Palais de Chaillot, Paris. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights Drafting Committee was chaired by Eleanor Roosevelt, who was known for her human rights advocacy. Canadian John Peters Humphrey was called upon by the United Nations Secretary-General to work on the project and became the Declaration's principal drafter.
RE: why was the universal declaration of human rights created? i have been on this homework for 2 hours and cant find answers to a few question. can someone please help i have an hour before it needs to be finished. thank you please look at my other questions. A universal declaration that specified the rights of individuals was necessary to give effect to the Charter's provisions on human rights. Such a declaration was proposed by Cuban diplomats Guy Perez Pérez cisneros And Ernesto. Dihigo(source): S · alva 6 years. ago
The International Bill of Human Rights consists of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and its two Optional Protocols. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights Drafting Committee was chaired by Eleanor Roosevelt, who was known for her human rights advocacy. Canadian John Peters Humphrey was called upon by the United Nations Secretary-General to work on the project and became the Declaration's principal drafter.
UDHR stands for the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. It dates back to 1948 when it was created in response to World War II. The United Nations General Assembly formally adopted the UDHR Dec. 10, 1948 in Paris. UDHR represents the first international treatise defining the basic human rights to which all human beings are entitled