Events and Accomplishments of William McKinley’s Presidency: During McKinley's time in office, Hawaii was annexed. This would be the first step towards statehood for the island territory. In 1898, the Spanish-American War began with the Maine incident. Becoming the President: In 1896, William McKinley was nominated to run for president for the Republican Party with Garret Hobart as his running mate. He was opposed by William Jennings Bryan who during his acceptance to the nomination gave his famous Cross of Gold speech where he spoke against the gold standard.
William McKinley, the 25th president of the United States, was born in Niles, Ohio on January 29, 1843. He enlisted as a private during the Civil War and distinguished himself in action earning the rank of major in 1865. He served in Congress from 1876 to 1890 and became a strong supporter of protective tariffs. 
1 Foreign policy accomplishments of President McKinley: 2  Led the nation to a decisive victory in the 1898 Spanish-American War and gained control of Puerto Rico, Guam, Cuba, and the Philippines as part of the peace settlement. 
William McKinley was the 25th president of the united States. He led the nation to victory in 100 days in the spanish-american war. He also allowed the U.S. to gain control of … Puerto Rico, Guam, and the Philippines. 4 people found this useful. William McKinley was governor of Ohio and served five terms in the U.S. House of Representatives before he was President. Before he entered pubic service he was a lawyer. Befo … re he was admitted to the bar, he spent four years in the US army, rising from private to brevet major.
William McKinley By Michael. There were many important things that McKinley did in his life. Wobbly Willie, as he was called by his enemies, was the 25th President. He was born in Niles, Ohio on January 29, 1843. McKinley was quite fortunate as a kid
William McKinley By Michael There were many important things that McKinley did in his life. Wobbly Willie, as he was called by his enemies, was the 25th President. He was born in Niles, Ohio on January 29, 1843. McKinley was quite fortunate as a kid.
During the Civil War, McKinley served on the staff of Colonel Rutherford B. Hayes, a fellow Ohioan who would become his lifelong mentor and friend. His ties to Hayes helped McKinley rise through Ohio's political ranks and win election to Congress in 1876, the same year Hayes was elected as the nation's 19th president. As a longtime champion of protective tariffs, the Republican McKinley ran on a platform of promoting American prosperity and won a landslide victory over Democrat William Jennings Bryan to become the 25th president of the United States.
5 user reviews. William McKinley, a member of the Republican Party, took office as the 25th President of the United States on March 4, 1897 at age 54. McKinley served in office for 4 years 26 weeks and was assassinated while president. He was born in Niles, Ohio and received an education from Allegheny College
William McKinley was the 25th President of the United States, serving from March 4, 1897, until his assassination on September 14, 1901, after leading the nation to victory in the Spanish-American War and raising protective tariffs to promote American industry. 