During a sneeze, the soft palate and palatine uvula depress while the back of the tongue elevates to partially close the passage to the mouth so that air ejected from the lungs may be expelled through the nose. The force and extent of the expulsion of the air through the nose varies. Sneezing can not occur during sleep due to REM atonia-a bodily state wherein motor neurons are not stimulated and reflex signals are not relayed to the brain.
I am a single-sneezer. Occasionally I will have a double sneeze but they're rare. The second sneeze is always kinda half-hearted-sounding compared to the first, for me. I've never sneezed thrice in a row (except this one time after I vomited through my nose, but that was extremely abnormal and IMO doesn't really count). 
I am a single-sneezer. Occasionally I will have a double sneeze but they're rare. The second sneeze is always kinda half-hearted-sounding compared to the first, for me. I've never sneezed thrice in a row (except this one time after I vomited through my nose, but that was extremely abnormal and IMO doesn't really count). 
My sneezes usually come in three's or more. A really good sneeze (or series of sneezes) feels good, but not THAT good. Perhaps the person who originally equated sneezing with orgasms wasn't doing it right (I don't mean the sneezing). Regardless, my sneezes are loud, having been heard 3 houses down on a cold day when doors and windows are all shut. Up until a few years ago I was always a double-sneezer. They were so fast it was almost like two sneezes at the same time. I never thought about it being odd until one day in school when someone made a comment about it-then I suddenly became self-conscious about my sneezing.
A sneeze, or sternutation, is a semi-autonomous, convulsive expulsion of air from the lungs through the nose and mouth, usually caused by foreign particles irritating the nasal mucosa. The force and extent of the expulsion of the air through the nose varies. Sneezing can not occur during sleep due to REM atonia-a bodily state wherein motor neurons are not stimulated and reflex signals are not relayed to the brain.
A sneeze can produce 40,000 droplets. To reduce the possibility of thus spreading disease (such as the flu), one holds the forearm or the inside of the elbow in front of one's mouth and nose when sneezing. The force and extent of the expulsion of the air through the nose varies. Sneezing can not occur during sleep due to REM atonia-a bodily state wherein motor neurons are not stimulated and reflex signals are not relayed to the brain.
Sneezes protect your body by clearing the nose of bacteria and viruses, Kao explains. When something enters your nose or you encounter a trigger that sets off your sneeze center in your brain, located in the lower brain stem, signals are rapidly sent to tightly close your throat, eyes, and mouth. Next, your chest muscles vigorously contract, and then your throat muscles quickly relax. It's a nerve transmission that tells your brain something is in your nose that needs to come out, Kao tells WebMD. 2. Sneezing helps keep your body safe.  Sneezing is an important part of the immune process, helping to keep us healthy and sniffle-free Kao says.
Ah-choo! You feel a sneeze coming on, and you're helpless to stop it. That's because sneezing is a reflex. When your nose gets irritated, your body automatically tries to clear your airways, says Todd Rambasek, MD, an allergist and immunologist with ENT & Allergy Health Services of Cleveland. The result is a sneeze. When you sneeze, you release irritants back into the air. Mom was right: You should cover your mouth and your nose with a tissue when you sneeze to prevent the spread of viruses and other germs that can cause the common cold and other illnesses. Or turn your head and sneeze into your shoulder if a tissue isn't handy.
But signals traveling along nerves can take slightly different paths to and from the brain, resulting in different sneeze scenarios from person to person. It's a nerve transmission that tells your brain something is in your nose that needs to come out, Kao tells WebMD. 2. Sneezing helps keep your body safe.  Sneezing is an important part of the immune process, helping to keep us healthy and sniffle-free Kao says.
Sneeze Causes. A number of things can trigger a sneeze. Some of the more common sneeze causes are: 1  Allergies to substances such as pet dander, pollen, or ragweed. 2  Irritants such as dust, strong odors, powder, or pepper. 3  Viruses that cause the common and often contagious cold. When you sneeze, you release irritants back into the air. Mom was right: You should cover your mouth and your nose with a tissue when you sneeze to prevent the spread of viruses and other germs that can cause the common cold and other illnesses. Or turn your head and sneeze into your shoulder if a tissue isn't handy.