Wed, Feb 12, 2014 @ 10:54 am | updated Wed, Feb 12, 2014 @ 10:55 am. Photo by Clark Pierce. Some of the 104 members of First Coast Fire & Emergency Services (Consolidated NAS Jackson-ville/NS Mayport) celebrate on Feb. 7 their selection as Commander Navy Region Southeast Fire Department of the Year (Large Category). It is the department's third win in the past four years. From Staff. Elizabeth Lynch is a First Coast Navy F&ES firefighter/EMT who said the CNRSE Fire Department of the Year award was indicative of the goal-oriented leadership at NAS Jax and NS Mayport.
The List of Webcams near Mayport, Florida, USA: (Other places in Florida, USA ») Webcam Jacksonville Beach, Florida, USA - 7.2 miles from Mayport: Webcam Jacksonville, Florida, USA - 14.3 miles from Mayport: Webcam Brunswick, Georgia, USA - 52.4 miles from Mayport: Webcam Alachua, Florida, USA - 75.9 miles from Mayport: Webcam Orlando, Florida, USA - 127.2 miles from Mayport: Webcam Walt Disney World Resort, Florida, USA - 138.8 miles from Mayport: Webcam Brooksville, Florida, USA - 139.4 miles from Mayport: All webcam-and operator-links will open a new browser window.
904. Mayport Naval Station, FL is currently using one area code which is area code 904. In addition to Mayport Naval Station, FL area code information read more about area code 904 details and Florida area codes. Mayport Naval Station, FL is located in Duval County and observes the Eastern Time Zone. View our Times by Area Code tool. 
Jacksonville is the largest city by population in the U.S. state of Florida, and the largest city by area in the contiguous United States. It is the county seat of Duval County, with which the city government consolidated in 1968. Naval Station Mayport is a Navy Ship Base that is the third largest fleet concentration area in the United States. Mayport's operational composition is unique, with a busy harbor capable of accommodating 34 ships and an 8,000-foot (2,400 m) runway capable of handling any aircraft used by the Department of Defense.
HISTORYSailors have been flocking to the area surrounding the present site of Naval Station Mayport for more than 400 years. With its ease of access to inland waterways and the open ocean, early Sailors’ interest in the region has resulted in an important military base with strong ties to the community. MWR MAYPORT AND DEPLOYED FORCES SUPPORTMWR Mayport is home to “the finest resort on the First Coast” ... and you’re already a member. With top-notch facilities, outstanding customer service and high-quality programs, you might expect to pay a lot for this resort-like atmosphere.
RLSO SE geographic area of responsibility includes the states of Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi, South Carolina and Texas, as well as Cuba, Puerto Rico, South America and portions of Mexico. 
Jacksonville is in the First Coast region of northeast Florida and is centered on the banks of the St. Johns River, about 25 miles (40 km) south of the Georgia state line and about 340 miles (550 km) north of Miami. The Jacksonville Beaches communities are along the adjacent Atlantic coast. Naval Station Mayport is a Navy Ship Base that is the third largest fleet concentration area in the United States. Mayport's operational composition is unique, with a busy harbor capable of accommodating 34 ships and an 8,000-foot (2,400 m) runway capable of handling any aircraft used by the Department of Defense.
SERMC is the largest command on board Mayport Naval Station, and occupies Building 1488 along the basin making service to the fleet more efficient. Sailors assigned to the Outside Electrical Shop of Southeast Regional Maintenance Center remove the rotor from the inside of a fire pump motor taken from USS Philippine Sea (CG 58) in preparation for its complete overhaul.
PRIVATIZED FAMILY HOUSING (BALFOUR BEATTYCOMMUNITIES) UNACCOMPANIED HOUSING (UH) All personnel transferring to Naval Station Mayport are required to contact the Housing Service Center (HSC), located in Building 289, prior to making any off-base commitments. Upon entering through the main gate, turn right onto Moale Avenue. MWR MAYPORT AND DEPLOYED FORCES SUPPORTMWR Mayport is home to “the finest resort on the First Coast” ... and you’re already a member. With top-notch facilities, outstanding customer service and high-quality programs, you might expect to pay a lot for this resort-like atmosphere.