Over the years Smurfs have featured in animated films such as the adventures of the Smurfs, the Smurfs and the Magic Flute, the Baby Smurf, and Here Come the Smurfs. Sony has announced its intention to begin a trilogy of Smurf stories in film, the first of which is due to be released in 2011. The Smurfs are an endearing and enduring bunch of characters that your children will love to play with. They are superbly modelled in indestructible resin by Schleich, and are available in the UK from Totally Schleich.co.uk.
At the time he came up with the creative idea for the Smurfs, Peyo was the creator, artist, and writer of the Franco-Belgian comics series titled Johan et Pirlouit (translated to English as Johan and Peewit), set in Europe during the Middle Ages and including elements of sword-and-sorcery. When they first appeared in 1958, the Smurfs lived in a part of the world called  Le Pays Maudit  (French for the Cursed Land). To reach it required magic or travelling through dense forests, deep marshes, a scorching desert and a high mountain range.
Pierre Culliford, a Belgian cartoonist, created The Smurfs, which were first seen in the Belgian comic Spirou on October 23rd 1958 in an episode of the cartoonist's tales of … Johan et Pirlouit (Johan and Peewit in English - 2 of the Smurfs' human friends in the animated TV series). papa, clumsy, grouchy, smurfette, smarty and vanity are basically the main smurfs. 99 of the smurfs are related but the only girl (smurfette) is … not related because she was created by the evil dude for evil purposes. papa found her and raised her like the rest.
The name Smurf derives from the French word schtroumpfs meaning what-you-may-call-its which apparently came from a mealtime conversation with a friend, when Peyo, forgetting momentarily the word for salt, asked his friend to pass the schtroumpf, and, when he had finished schtroumpfing, to pass it back. The Smurfs are an endearing and enduring bunch of characters that your children will love to play with. They are superbly modelled in indestructible resin by Schleich, and are available in the UK from Totally Schleich.co.uk.
The actual origin of the Smurfs was an idea by a Belgian cartoonist named Pierre Culliford (also known as Peyo), in 1958. The initial comic strip appeared in a Belgian magazine, but only really gained wide appeal when the idea was taken up by Hanna-Barbara Productions. The Smurfs are an endearing and enduring bunch of characters that your children will love to play with. They are superbly modelled in indestructible resin by Schleich, and are available in the UK from Totally Schleich.co.uk.
The Smurfs was first created and introduced as a series of comic characters by the Belgian comics artist Peyo (pen name of Pierre Culliford) in 1958, where they were known as Les Schtroumpfs. When they first appeared in 1958, the Smurfs lived in a part of the world called  Le Pays Maudit  (French for the Cursed Land). To reach it required magic or travelling through dense forests, deep marshes, a scorching desert and a high mountain range.
The Smurfs (French: Les Schtroumpfs) (Dutch: De Smurfen) is a Belgian comic and television franchise centered on a fictional colony of small blue creatures who live in mushroom-shaped houses in the forest. When they first appeared in 1958, the Smurfs lived in a part of the world called  Le Pays Maudit  (French for the Cursed Land). To reach it required magic or travelling through dense forests, deep marshes, a scorching desert and a high mountain range.
Where do Smurfs come from?. Annabelle asked Toby as he was setting up the last of the small figures in a line stretched across the table. I don't know, he replied. Somewhere far away I think. The Smurfs are an endearing and enduring bunch of characters that your children will love to play with. They are superbly modelled in indestructible resin by Schleich, and are available in the UK from Totally Schleich.co.uk.
All Smurfs, with the exception of Papa, Baby, Smurfette, Nanny and Grandpa, are said to be 100 years old. There were originally 99 Smurfs, but this number increased as new Smurf characters appeared, such as Sassette and Nanny. When they first appeared in 1958, the Smurfs lived in a part of the world called  Le Pays Maudit  (French for the Cursed Land). To reach it required magic or travelling through dense forests, deep marshes, a scorching desert and a high mountain range.
1 Notable Smurfs Cartoon Characters The Smurfs are a cartoon family that was introduced to the public in 1963 by Pierre Culliford, better known as Peyo. papa, clumsy, grouchy, smurfette, smarty and vanity are basically the main smurfs. 99 of the smurfs are related but the only girl (smurfette) is … not related because she was created by the evil dude for evil purposes. papa found her and raised her like the rest.