The symptoms of HIV vary, depending on the individual and what stage of the disease you are in: the early stage, the clinical latency stage, or AIDS (the late stage of HIV infection). Below are the symptoms that some individuals may experience in these three stages. Not all individuals will experience these symptoms.
1 Early HIV symptoms include fever, headache, fatigue, rash, sore throat, and swollen lymph nodes in the neck. 2  A characteristic feature of primary HIV infection is open sores or ulcers in the mouth. 3  These symptoms usually disappear within a few weeks.
Advanced Symptoms of HIV/AIDS. As HIV progresses, there may be bouts of diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, and weight loss. Other symptoms include severe headache, joint pain, and muscle aches. Shortness of breath, chronic cough, and difficulty swallowing are not uncommon.
There are several stages of HIV disease. The first HIV symptoms may include swollen glands in the throat, armpit, or groin. Other early HIV symptoms include slight fever, headaches, fatigue, and muscle aches. These symptoms may last for only a few weeks.
1 The most common symptoms are similar to a flu-like illness within several days to weeks after exposure to the virus. 2  Early HIV symptoms include fever, headache, fatigue, rash, sore throat, and swollen lymph nodes in the neck. 3  A characteristic feature of primary HIV infection is open sores or ulcers in the mouth.
The initial infection can be mild or very severe and can be accompanied by fever, swollen lymph nodes, joint and muscle aches, and sore throat. Other symptoms can include chills, night sweats, and mouth ulcers. The symptoms and signs of the initial HIV infection have also been compared to infectious mononucleosis.
The stages of HIV infection are acute infection (also known as primary infection), latency and AIDS. Acute infection lasts for several weeks and may include symptoms such as fever, swollen lymph nodes, inflammation of the throat, rash, muscle pain, malaise, and mouth and esophageal sores.
The Symptoms of HIV/AIDS-the First Stage. HIV infection comes in three stages. The first stage is called acute infection or seroconversion, and it typically happens within two to six weeks after exposure or becoming infected. This is when the body's immune system puts up a fight against HIV.
Many people have no symptoms when they first get HIV. Some have no symptoms for years. It varies from person to person. But some people get a flu-like illness within a month or two after first getting HIV. Those symptoms include fever, headache, being very tired, and swollen lymph nodes (glands in the neck and groin).