Takao: The mountain village of Takao has been one of Kyoto’s most famous foliage destinations for years and with good reason: the mountainsides are festooned with maples. Okochi-Sanso Villa: This is one of Kyoto’s best gardens and it’s particularly lovely in autumn. The leaves start changing in Kyoto sometime in October. The peak of fall foliage usually comes in mid-November, and you can usually see colors on the trees until mid-December. Thus, in an average year, the foliage season in Kyoto lasts from 15 October to 15 December, with a peak around 15 November
Hachimantai Early to late October Some of Japan's most spectacular autumn colors are found in the Hachimantai mountains. Good spots include the summit of Mount Hachimantai, Goshogake Onsen with nearby Onuma Pond, Tamagawa Onsen and Nyuto Onsen.
Here’s our guide on how to see the Autumn Colors in Kyoto at it’s best. While the cherry blossoms at their peak are almost excessively lovely, even tawdry in their obvious appeal, the fall foliage is a more restrained beauty that grows on you the more you look at it. The leaves start changing in Kyoto sometime in October. The peak of fall foliage usually comes in mid-November, and you can usually see colors on the trees until mid-December. Thus, in an average year, the foliage season in Kyoto lasts from 15 October to 15 December, with a peak around 15 November
Open: 9:00-17:00; 500 yen; Tel: 075-781-2954; http://www.kyoto-shisendo.com/ Enko-ji Temple Enko-ji Temple is a short walk north of Shisen-do Temple. The temple was founded in 1601 by Ieyasu Tokugawa in Fushimi, in the southern part of Kyoto, as a place to study and promote Confucianism. Here in a few short hours visitors can see terraced, open fields, old farm villas, quiet country lanes and wonderful views of north and west Kyoto. The highlights of this special area are Shisen-do Temple, Enko-ji Temple, and Manshu-in Temple.
When it comes to autumn leaves in Kyoto, Eikan Hall is the place to be. It’s so famous for beautiful fall foliage that it also goes by the name “Eikan Hall of the Autumn Leaves.” The Buddhist temple is the head temple of the Seizen sect of Pure Land Buddhism and holds a famous statue of Amida Buddha. The cost of admittance is 500 yen, and you can find the shrine at 59 Shimogamo Izumigawa-cho, Sakyo-ku, Kyoto-shi, Kyoto. Daitoku Temple. As you can probably tell from the picture above, this Buddhist temple is overflowing with trees, making for a stunning display in autumn.
Kyoto is one of the most popular destinations for fall foliages. There are many beautiful spots to visit in late fall. From mid November to early December, the city tends to be crowded by tourists. Below is a list of popular places. 
Eikando Late November to early December Illumination 2015: 11/6 to 12/3, 17:30 to 20:30, 600 yen With their abundance of autumn colors, the temple grounds of Eikando are another of Kyoto's most popular koyo spots. It is one of several temples that offer special illumination opening hours in the evenings. Late November to early December. Illumination 2015: 11/6 to 12/3, 17:30 to 20:30, 600 yen. With their abundance of autumn colors, the temple grounds of Eikando are another of Kyoto's most popular koyo spots. It is one of several temples that offer special illumination opening hours in the evenings.
We visited Kyoto and Osaka last year in November, near the peak of the Autumn season where leaves turn to wonderful palettes of red, yellows, browns and greens, which makes for a fantastic experience. Here are four of our most favorite places to visit in Kyoto and Osaka, Japan during the Autumn season. 