As you can see, Apple has three price tiers for its iPhone. Tier 1 is always represented by the best iPhone of the year – in this case the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus.
Many previous reports have said that Apple is also developing a smaller iPhone version in addition to the 4.7-inch iPhone 6s and the 5.5-inch iPhone 6s Plus. Dubbed the iPhone 6c, the device supposedly has a 4-inch display and specs that match last year’s iPhone 6.
The price of iPhone 6C in US is expected to be around $649 for a standard 16GB contract free unlocked model. Apple iPhone 6C specs also includes redesign case, an upgraded camera and processor running Apple iOS 8 operating system software.
Print Email. Learn about the new iPhone 6C Price, Specs, Features along with expected iPhone 6C Release Date coming out in fall 2014. Apple has introduced two models of smartphones with iPhone 5G. Although Apple CEO Tim Cook does not seems much happy from the response they got from iPhone 5C.
For those looking to buy an iPhone 6 without a contract, the price may be $929. According to the iPhone 6 Updates blog, this price estimate is based on an iPhone 6 with 128GB of storage.
With Apple working on a raft of new features for the iPhone 7, many of which will significantly change the physical construction of the device, it seems extremely likely that an iPhone 6s will hit the stores in 2015.
Apple is expected to introduce at least two iPhones this fall, including the new 4.7-inch iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus. Some people say that a new 4-inch iPhone 6c will also be included in Apple’s 2015 new iPhone lineup for anyone who still prefers to buy a smaller iPhone.
On top of that, since introducing the iPhone in 2007, Apple has only released flagship handsets that sold at rather expensive prices compared to the competition. At the same time, Apple has kept older iPhones in stock that it’s sold at cheaper prices.
With Apple likely to delay the iPhone 7 until 2016, we could see the iPhone 6c before the end of this year. It is believed that an October release date is possible for this new Apple handset.