The mourning dove (Zenaida macroura) is a member of the dove family (Columbidae). The bird is also called the turtle dove or the American mourning dove or rain dove, and formerly was known as the Carolina pigeon or Carolina turtledove. It is one of the most abundant and widespread of all North American birds. Mourning doves weigh 112–170 g (4.0–6.0 oz), usually closer to 128 g (4.5 oz). The elliptical wings are broad, and the head is rounded. Its tail is long and tapered (macroura comes from the Greek words for large and tail). Mourning doves have perching feet, with three toes forward and one reversed.
By virtue of their melancholy call, mourning doves have been fittingly named. Their distinctive “wooo-oo-oo-oo” sounds may evoke a feeling of grief over the loss of a dearly beloved. But far from representing death, the symbolism of mourning doves gives us optimism with its spirituality. Beyond their sorrowful song is a message of life, hope, renewal and peace. This beautiful bird (Zenaidura macroura) is the most common species of dove found in North America. Because they are plentiful, they are considered the most popular bird game – hunted both for meat and sport. A dove is in fact a small pigeon.
Avoids unbroken forest. The mournful cooing of the Mourning Dove is one of our most familiar bird sounds. From southern Canada to central Mexico, this is one of our most common birds, often abundant in open country and along roadsides. 
Mourning Doves can be found in our area year-round. Mourning Doves are pigeon-like birds that grow up to 12 inches long. Their coloring is tannish-gray with black spots on their wings. They have long, pointed tails with a white tip. Mourning Doves live in fields, parks, open woods, and roadsides. 
Description. Mourning Doves are our most slender dove, with a long pointed tail, and fairly narrow pointed wings held close while flapping; however, on takeoff they produce a light airy whistling on takeoff. Song of a Mourning Dove is a mournful hooting ooAAh cooo cooo coo, often mistake for an owl. Mourning Dove. Distribution. Mourning Doves (Zenaida macroura) are found in all counties of the Texas Panhandle, in every month of the year, and are an important migratory upland game bird. Resident populations occur year-round in our area
Adult mourning doves. The Mourning Dove (Zenaida macroura) is a member of the dove family (Columbidae). The bird is also called the American Mourning Dove or Rain Dove, and formerly was known as the Carolina Pigeon or Carolina Turtledove. It is one of the most abundant and widespread of all North American birds. 
The mourning dove is a medium-sized, slender dove. It weighs an average of 110 to 170 grams (4 to 6 oz). It has a small head and a long tail. mourning doves have perching feet, with three toes facing forward and one facing backward. When there is no suitable place to nest above, mourning doves will nest on the ground. The nest is almost always big enough for exactly two eggs. Sometimes, however, a female will lay her eggs in the nest of another pair, leading to three or four eggs in the nest. The eggs are small and white.
The mourning dove is sometimes called the American mourning dove to distinguish it from the distantly related mourning collared dove (Streptopelia decipiens) of Africa. It was also formerly known as the Carolina turtledove and the Carolina pigeon. Mourning doves weigh 112–170 g (4.0–6.0 oz), usually closer to 128 g (4.5 oz). The elliptical wings are broad, and the head is rounded. Its tail is long and tapered (macroura comes from the Greek words for large and tail). Mourning doves have perching feet, with three toes forward and one reversed.
The mourning dove is hunted both for sport and meat. Up to 70 million birds are shot in the United States every year. Its mournful woo-oo-oo-oo call gives the bird its name. The bird is a strong flier, and can fly at up to 88 km/h (55 mph). When there is no suitable place to nest above, mourning doves will nest on the ground. The nest is almost always big enough for exactly two eggs. Sometimes, however, a female will lay her eggs in the nest of another pair, leading to three or four eggs in the nest. The eggs are small and white.