A variable is any characteristics, number, or quantity that can be measured or counte d. A variable may also be called a data item. Age, sex, business income and expenses, country of birth, capital expenditure, class grades, eye colour and vehicle type are examples of variables. It is called a variable because the value may vary between data units in a population, and may change in value over time. Types of variables flowchart: 1  A continuous variabl e is a numeric variable. 2  A discrete variable is a numeric variable. 3  An ordinal varia ble is a categorical variable. 4  A nominal variable is a categorical variable.
1 A nominal variable is a categorical variable. 2  Observations can take a value that is not able to be organised in a logical sequence. 3  Examples of nominal categorical variables include sex, business type, eye colour, religion and brand. Types of variables flowchart: 1  A continuous variabl e is a numeric variable. 2  A discrete variable is a numeric variable. 3  An ordinal varia ble is a categorical variable. 4  A nominal variable is a categorical variable.
Discrete variables are also called categorical variables. A discrete variable, X, can take on a finite number of numerical values, categories or codes. Discrete variables can be classified into the following categories: 1  Nominal variables. 2  Ordinal variables. 3  Dummy variables from quantitative variables. 4  Preference variables. We can say that the temperature of 40 C is higher than 30 C, and an increase from 20 C to 40 C is twice as much as the increase from 30 C to 40 C. Counts are interval scale measurements, such as counts of publications or citations, years of education, etc. 1  Continuous Ordinal Variables.
Interval scale data has order and equal intervals. Interval scale variables are measured on a linear scale, and can take on positive or negative values. It is assumed that the intervals keep the same importance throughout the scale. We can say that the temperature of 40 C is higher than 30 C, and an increase from 20 C to 40 C is twice as much as the increase from 30 C to 40 C. Counts are interval scale measurements, such as counts of publications or citations, years of education, etc. 1  Continuous Ordinal Variables.
Ordinal. An ordinal variable is similar to a categorical variable. The difference between the two is that there is a clear ordering of the variables. For example, suppose you have a variable, economic status, with three categories (low, medium and high). A categorical variable (sometimes called a nominal variable) is one that has two or more categories, but there is no intrinsic ordering to the categories. For example, gender is a categorical variable having two categories (male and female) and there is no intrinsic ordering to the categories
Nominal variables. A nominal variable is one that describes a name or category. Contrary to ordinal variables, there is no 'natural ordering' of the set of possible names or categories. Sex and type of dwelling are examples of nominal variables. In Table 1, the variable mode of transportation for travel to work is nominal because it describes the category of transportation. 
The distinction between discrete and continuous variables is important. Categorical variables. The values of a categorical variable are selected from a small group of categories. Examples are gender (male or female) and marital status (never married, married, divorced or widowed). Categorical variables can be further categorised into ordinal and nominal variables. 1 ... Name is a label variable. 2  Sex, Marital Status and Smoking are nominal categorical variables. 3  Age and Income are continuous numerical variables. 4  Number of children is a discrete numerical variable (a count).