Octreotide injection is used to treat severe diarrhea and other symptoms that occur with certain intestinal tumors or metastatic carcinoid tumors (tumors that has already spread in the body). It does not cure the tumor but it helps the patient feel more comfortable. Octreotide injection is also used to treat a condition called acromegaly, which is caused by too much growth hormone in the body. Too much growth hormone produced in adults causes the hands, feet, and parts of the face to become large, thick, and bulky.
Octreotide injection is used to treat severe diarrhea and other symptoms that occur with certain intestinal tumors or metastatic carcinoid tumors (tumors that has already spread in the body). Octreotide injection is also used to treat a condition called acromegaly, which is caused by too much growth hormone in the body. Too much growth hormone produced in adults causes the hands, feet, and parts of the face to become large, thick, and bulky.
1 Review. Octreotide is a man-made protein that is similar to a hormone in the body called somatostatin. Octreotide lowers many substances in the body such as insulin and glucagon (involved in regulating blood sugar), growth hormone, and chemicals that affect digestion. Octreotide is used to treat acromegaly. 
Uses. Octreotide is used to treat severe watery diarrhea and sudden reddening of the face and neck caused by certain types of tumors (e.g., carcinoid tumors, vasoactive intestinal peptide tumors) that are found usually in the intestines and pancreas. By decreasing watery diarrhea, octreotide helps to reduce the loss of body fluids and minerals. Octreotide is also used to treat a certain condition (acromegaly) that occurs when the body makes too much of a certain natural substance called growth hormone. Treating acromegaly helps reduce the risk of serious problems such as diabetes and heart disease
Uses of This Medicine. Octreotide injection is used to treat severe diarrhea and other symptoms that occur with certain intestinal tumors or metastatic carcinoid tumors (tumors that has already spread in the body). It does not cure the tumor but it helps the patient feel more comfortable. Octreotide injection is also used to treat a condition called acromegaly, which is caused by too much growth hormone in the body. Too much growth hormone produced in adults causes the hands, feet, and parts of the face to become large, thick, and bulky.
Octreotide (brand name Sandostatin, Novartis Pharmaceuticals) is an octapeptide that mimics natural somatostatin pharmacologically, though it is a more potent inhibitor of growth hormone, glucagon, and insulin than the natural hormone. It was first synthesized in 1979 by the chemist Wilfried Bauer. Octreotide can also be labelled with a variety of radionuclides, such as yttrium-90 or lutetium-177, to enable peptide receptor radionuclide therapy (PRRT) for the treatment of unresectable neuroendocrine tumours.
Uses. This medication is a long-acting form of octreotide. Octreotide is used to treat severe watery diarrhea and sudden reddening of the face and neck caused by certain types of tumors (e.g., carcinoid tumors, vasoactive intestinal peptide tumors) that are found usually in the intestines and pancreas. Octreotide is also used to treat a certain condition (acromegaly) that occurs when the body makes too much of a certain natural substance called growth hormone. Treating acromegaly helps reduce the risk of serious problems such as diabetes and heart disease.