It can take up to three weeks to process and it is taking a long time to get the refunds back because of EIC and dependants that have to be processed on the return as well. I hope this helps some of you and the returns from 01/01-01/24 had a two week delay because they are a week behind with their system. If you filed electronically, you should expect a refund to be issued 10 – 21 days after the IRS accepts the return. Please do not call our toll-free number as our representatives cannot provide further information before processing is complete nor expedite processing.
If you filed a tax return by mail, your refund will be issued within six weeks from the date the return was received by the IRS, whether or not you opted for a paper check or an electronic deposit. They can opt to have the refund amount direct deposited into their bank account or they can request a paper check be mailed. The option you choose will affect the amount of time it takes to receive your refund. It also matters how you have filed your tax return and if the return was accurate.
The amount of time it takes to receive your federal income tax return varies from state to state and depends on the first letter of your last name. It also depends how much ti … me it takes the government to asses your paper work. In general it can take as little as two weeks to as much as two months. 
There are two ways for a taxpayer to get back their federal income tax refund. They can opt to have the refund amount direct deposited into their bank account or they can request a paper check be mailed. The option you choose will affect the amount of time it takes to receive your refund. It also matters how you have filed your tax return and if the return was accurate.
Filing a return through the mail is, of course, the slower of the two processes. For those who mail their federal return, the IRS will remit a tax refund within six weeks after they have been received the completed return. If you file electronically, you should receive your tax refund within three weeks. The IRS allows two options for receiving a federal tax refund: paper check sent via the mail, or an electronic funds transfer (also called a direct deposit). The direct deposit method, not surprisingly, is always the quicker option. For anyone wanting to check the status of their tax refund, simply go to the IRS's Where's my refund webpage where you'll find an easy to use tool to request the information. If you would rather check the refund status by phone, you may call 1-800-829-1954. The IRS asks that you wait 3 days after filing electronically, or 3 weeks after mailing a return before checking for a status update
How long will your tax refund take and how much will you get back? The IRS started accepting returns on January 20, but refunds may take longer than normal this year. If you haven’t filed yet, get an idea of how much your refund check will be for with the tax refund calculator below. Time to go shopping. Finally got my Tax Refund. Refunds are normally issued within approximately 21 days if you use e-File, but you may have to wait a bit longer this year due to staff cutbacks within the IRS. Mailing your return in and requesting a paper check is the least speedy choice, slowing down your refund by several weeks.
@meast07 me either and it seems like if you filed and they say wait 72 hours before you check the status of your refund it would at least give you a proposed date to when you may get your money back…all i have been told by my tax preparer is that i had to wait 10-14 days. If you filed electronically, you should expect a refund to be issued 10 – 21 days after the IRS accepts the return. Please do not call our toll-free number as our representatives cannot provide further information before processing is complete nor expedite processing.
The IRS eliminated the refund schedules that were used in prior years for both direct deposit and mailed refunds. The guideline the IRS is using in 2015 for filing your 2014 tax return is: Don’t count on getting your refund by a certain date to make major purchases or pay other financial obligations. Even though the IRS issues most refunds in less than 21 days, it’s possible your tax return may require additional review and take longer. Tax Refund Direct Deposit versus Mail. If you want to get your refund faster, opt for the direct deposit route. Not only will the IRS send your money earlier via direct deposit, but you’ll cut down on the mailing time too.
Tracking tax refunds is quite the adventure this year. Readers are reporting all sorts of data points in how long it takes to get your tax refund back. Originally the IRS started out with an aggressive one week turnaround on tax refunds for efiled returns. 