Based on information we have to date, the incubation period for MERS (time between when a person is exposed to MERS-CoV and when they start to have symptoms) is usually about 5 or 6 days, but can range from 2-14 days. Some people also had gastrointestinal symptoms including diarrhea and nausea/vomiting. For many people with MERS, more severe complications followed, such as pneumonia and kidney failure. About 3-4 out of every 10 people reported with MERS have died. Most of the people who died had an underlying medical condition.
Overview. Coronavirus infection is a highly contagious infection of dogs that primarily attacks the intestinal tract. The disease is spread from dog to dog through contact with feces. After coronavirus has been transmitted to a dog, the incubation (development) period of the disease can be as short as one to four days. A vaccine is available to prevent canine coronavirus infection. Coronavirus vaccine is not a core vaccine, but it may sometimes be included in combination vaccines for other, more serious diseases, such as infections with canine distemper virus, canine parvovirus, and canine adenovirus type 2.
Human coronavirus HKU1 (HCoV-HKU1) is a positive-sense, single-stranded RNA virus with the HE gene, which distinguishes it as a group 2, or betacoronavirus. It was discovered in January 2005 in two patients in Hong Kong. 
Results. The Figure (panel A) shows the conditional probability of coronavirus infection given the incubation period (based on equation (1)), in a setting where one has to differentiate coronavirus infection from influenza virus infection, assuming an equal probability of 0.5 for either virus. Thirdly, one cannot guarantee that the incubation period of a novel pathogen is always similar to that of closely related pathogens. For instance, the incubation period of Escherichia coli O104:H4 infection has been shown to be longer than that of E. coli O157:H7 [13].
In other words, the probability of influenza A given a two-day incubation period is as high as 99.9% and 84.3%, respectively, when comparing between influenza A and either non-SARS or SARS coronaviruses. Thirdly, one cannot guarantee that the incubation period of a novel pathogen is always similar to that of closely related pathogens. For instance, the incubation period of Escherichia coli O104:H4 infection has been shown to be longer than that of E. coli O157:H7 [13].
The incubation period is one to three days. The disease is highly contagious and is spread through the feces of infected dogs, who usually shed the virus for six to nine days, but sometimes for six months following infection. Symptoms include diarrhea, vomiting, and anorexia. Known as canine respiratory coronavirus (CRCoV) and found to be similar to strain OC43 of bovine and human coronaviruses, it was first isolated in the United Kingdom in 2003 from lung samples of dogs and has since been found on the European mainland and in Japan.
MERS-CoV – a novel virus, similar to that which caused the SARS outbreak of 2002-03 – was first identified in two patients suffering from severe respiratory illness in September 2012. As of 23 May, 2013, there have been 44 cases worldwide [1]. The new study provides the first detailed clinical description of the two MERS-CoV cases identified in France, outlining the symptoms the patients experienced, how they were treated, and how the virus was detected.
The majority of cases have been identified in Saudi Arabia, with a smaller number of cases appearing in other countries in the Middle East (Jordan, Qatar, Tunisia, and United Arab Emirates), as well as the UK and France. The new study provides the first detailed clinical description of the two MERS-CoV cases identified in France, outlining the symptoms the patients experienced, how they were treated, and how the virus was detected.
Diagnostic tests will eliminate any other possible disease such as inflammation of the intestine, intestinal obstruction, pancreatitis (inflammation of the pancreas) or parasites, including worms. The incubation period for canine coronavirus is 1 to 3 days. However, this highly-contagious disease can be spread via the feces of infected dogs for 6 to 9 days, and sometimes for as long as 6 months. Canine Respiratory Coronavirus. A similar disease affecting the lungs of dogs has been discovered in Europe and Japan in 2003. It has also appeared in Canada and the United States as recently as 2006 and perhaps as far back as 1996.