Glands of the endocrine system. Each gland of the endocrine system releases specific hormones into your bloodstream. These hormones travel through your blood to other cells and help control or coordinate many body processes. Endocrine glands include: 1  Adrenal glands. 2  Two glands that sit on top of the kidneys that release the hormone cortisol. 3  Hypothalamus.
Endocrine disorders arise because of problems with the glands of the endocrine system. Of the many potential endocrine disorders, some of the most common relate to problems with the pancreas or with the pituitary, thyroid, or adrenal glands. Types and causes of endocrine disorders include: Acromegaly, an overproduction of growth hormone, and prolactinoma, an overproduction of prolactin hormone, resulting from damage to the pituitary gland.
Causes and treatment of endocrine diseases. Diabetes, the most common disease of the endocrine system, can be linked to obesity, diet and family history, according to Dr. Alyson Myers of North Shore-LIJ Health System. To diagnose diabetes, we do an oral glucose tolerance test with fasting.. Stress, infection, and changes in the blood's fluid and electrolyte balance can also influence hormone levels, according to the National Institutes of Health. The most common endocrine disease in the United States is diabetes, a condition in which the body does not properly process glucose, a simple sugar.
Common Diseases of the Endocrine System. Your endocrine system includes eight major glands throughout your body. These glands make hormones, which are chemical messengers that travel through your bloodstream to tissues or organs. Hormones work slowly and affect body processes from head to toe. In the U.S., the most common endocrine disease is diabetes. There are many others. They are usually treated by controlling how much hormone your body makes. Hormone supplements can help if the problem is too little of a hormone. Some endocrine diseases are: 1  Growth and development.
Glands of the Endocrine System. Each gland of the endocrine system releases specific hormones into your bloodstream. These hormones travel through your blood to other cells and help control or coordinate many body processes. Endocrine glands include: 1  Adrenal glands: Two glands that sit on top of the kidneys that release the hormone cortisol. 2  Hypothalamus: A part of the lower middle brain that tells the pituitary gland when to release hormones. 3  Ovaries: The female reproductive organs that release eggs and produce sex hormones
The endocrine system influences how your heart beats, how your bones and tissues grow, even your ability to make a baby. It plays a vital role in whether or not you develop diabetes, thyroid disease, growth disorders, sexual dysfunction, and a host of other hormone-related disorders. These hormones travel through your blood to other cells and help control or coordinate many body processes. Endocrine glands include: 1  Adrenal glands: Two glands that sit on top of the kidneys that release the hormone cortisol.
Thyroid disorders are also very common. Thyroid disorders include hypothyroidism, in which the thyroid glands produce too little hormones, hyperthyroidism, in which the thyroid glands produce too much hormones, thyroid cancer, and thyroid nodules.
Increased or decreased levels of endocrine hormone may be caused by: 1  A problem with the endocrine feedback system. 2  Disease. 3  Failure of a gland to stimulate another gland to release hormones (for example, a problem with the hypothalamus can disrupt hormone production in the pituitary gland). Other endocrine disorders include: Adrenal insufficiency. The adrenal gland releases too little of the hormone cortisol and sometimes, aldosterone. Symptoms include fatigue, stomach upset, dehydration, and skin changes.
1 Endocrine disease that results when a gland produces too much or too little of an endocrine hormone, called a hormone imbalance. 2  Endocrine disease due to the development of lesions (such as nodules or tumors) in the endocrine system, which may or may not affect hormone levels. These hormones travel through your blood to other cells and help control or coordinate many body processes. Endocrine glands include: 1  Adrenal glands: Two glands that sit on top of the kidneys that release the hormone cortisol.