Chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) are a group of manufactured chemical compounds that contain chlorine, fluorine, and carbon. This group includes CFC-11, CFC-12, CFC-113, CFC-114, CFC-115, and many forms of Freon. 
Chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) are a group of compounds which contain the elements chlorine, fluorine and carbon. At room temperatures, they are usually colourless gases or liquids which evaporate easily. They are generally unreactive and stable, non-toxic and non-flammable. 
CFC'S or Chlorofluorocarbons are molecules which demolish the ozone layer. The ozone layer is made up of O3 or ozone molecules these reflect UV rays (harmful ultra violet ligh … t) the CFC'S smash up the O3 into O2 molecules (the type we breathe) these do not reflect UV so we suffer. UV is radiation and increases the chances of skin cancer.
CFC's-ChloroFluoroCarbons-are a class of volatile organic compounds that have been used as refrigerants, aerosol propellants, foam blowing agents, and as solvents in the electronic industry ChloroFluroCarbon a fluorocarbon with chlorine; Commercially, the most important CFCs were derivatives of methane and ethane. Chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) are commonly used as the gases used to exchange heat in refrigeration, due to their high volatility. However, when released into the upper atmosphere, their carbon-chlorine bonds are easily broken by solar radiation to release chlorine radicals (unstable chlorine atoms).
CFC's-ChloroFluoroCarbons-are a class of volatile organic compounds that have been used as refrigerants, aerosol propellants, foam blowing agents, and as solvents in the electronic industry ChloroFluroCarbon a fluorocarbon with chlorine; Commercially, the most important CFCs were derivatives of methane and ethane. The ozone layer is made up of O3 or ozone molecules these reflect UV rays (harmful ultra violet ligh … t) the CFC'S smash up the O3 into O2 molecules (the type we breathe) these do not reflect UV so we suffer. UV is radiation and increases the chances of skin cancer.
CFCs Chlorofluorocarbon (CFC) is an organic compound that contains carbon, chlorine, and fluorine, produced as a volatile derivative of methane and ethane. A common subclass is the hydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs), which contain hydrogen, as well. Freon is DuPont's brand name for CFCs, HCFCs and related compounds. These then react with the ozone molecules, resulting in their removal. CFCs have a lifetime in the atmosphere of about 20 to 100 years, and consequently one free chlorine atom from a CFC molecule can do a lot of damage, destroying ozone molecules for a long time.
CFC'S or Chlorofluorocarbons are molecules which demolish the ozone layer. The ozone layer is made up of O3 or ozone molecules these reflect UV rays (harmful ultra violet ligh … t) the CFC'S smash up the O3 into O2 molecules (the type we breathe) these do not reflect UV so we suffer. Chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) are commonly used as the gases used to exchange heat in refrigeration, due to their high volatility. However, when released into the upper atmosphere, their carbon-chlorine bonds are easily broken by solar radiation to release chlorine radicals (unstable chlorine atoms).
A chlorofluorocarbon (CFC) is an organic compound that contains only carbon, chlorine, and fluorine, produced as a volatile derivative of methane, ethane, and propane. They are also commonly known by the DuPont brand name Freon. The most common representative is dichlorodifluoromethane (R-12 or Freon-12). Because CFCs contribute to ozone depletion in the upper atmosphere, the manufacture of such compounds has been phased out under the Montreal Protocol, and they are being replaced with other products such as hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) (e.g., R-410A), hydrocarbons, and CO 2.
CFCs. Chlorofluorocarbon (CFC) is an organic compound that contains carbon, chlorine, and fluorine, produced as a volatile derivative of methane and ethane. A common subclass is the hydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs), which contain hydrogen, as well. These then react with the ozone molecules, resulting in their removal. CFCs have a lifetime in the atmosphere of about 20 to 100 years, and consequently one free chlorine atom from a CFC molecule can do a lot of damage, destroying ozone molecules for a long time.