Obon was originally celebrated around the 15th day of the seventh month in the lunar calendar. Obon periods are nowadays different in various regions of Japan. In most regions, Obon is celebrated around August 15, and it typically begins 13th and ends 16th of August. In some areas in Tokyo, Obon is celebrated around July 15, and it is still celebrated on the 15th day of the seventh month in the lunar calendar in many areas in Okinawa
The Obon festival lasts for three days. During the three days of the festival, Japanese people pay respect by visiting their ancestors' graves. In preparation for the festival, homes are cleaned and flower arrangements are made. Obon festival, also sometimes known as Bon festival in Japan, is a time of celebration and family reunion as the people of Japan commemorate their ancestors. It is one of three major holiday seasons in Japan
Of the 3 holidays, especially Obon Festival In Japan is considered a family reunion holiday. 1  In some areas of Tokyo, Obon is celebrated around July 15. 2  In most areas of Japan, Obon is still celebrated around August 15, and it typically begins 13th and ends 16th of August, coinciding with the traditional lunar calendar. Where is Obon Festival Celebrated In Tokyo. 1  Floating of the lanterns down the river takes place on the Sumida River Toro Ngashi Tokyo. 2  Tsukiji Hongan-ji Temple Noryo Bon Odori Taikai. 3  Marunouchi Ondo Dai Bon Odori Taikai in Hibiya Park. 4  Oedo Matsuri Bon Odori Taikai. 5  Tokyo Disney celebrates Obon numerous ways.
For over 500 years, Obon Festival In Japan has been celebrated and traditionally includes a dance, known as Bon-Odori. On the last day, the spirits of the ancestors are brought back to the grave, and family crest chochin painted meant to guide the spirits are hung. It’s called okuri-bon. Where is Obon Festival Celebrated In Tokyo. 1  Floating of the lanterns down the river takes place on the Sumida River Toro Ngashi Tokyo. 2  Tsukiji Hongan-ji Temple Noryo Bon Odori Taikai. 3  Marunouchi Ondo Dai Bon Odori Taikai in Hibiya Park. 4  Oedo Matsuri Bon Odori Taikai. 5  Tokyo Disney celebrates Obon numerous ways.
Obon: Festival of the Dead in Japan. Obon is a Japanese Buddhist holiday that honors the return of the spirits of ancestors. It's a summer holiday in which people return to their hometowns to visit the graves of their departed relatives. Graves are cleaned and people pray to their ancestors. It's a time to think about the past and departed loved ones
1 In some areas of Tokyo, Obon is celebrated around July 15. 2  In most areas of Japan, Obon is still celebrated around August 15, and it typically begins 13th and ends 16th of August, coinciding with the traditional lunar calendar. Where is Obon Festival Celebrated In Tokyo. 1  Floating of the lanterns down the river takes place on the Sumida River Toro Ngashi Tokyo. 2  Tsukiji Hongan-ji Temple Noryo Bon Odori Taikai. 3  Marunouchi Ondo Dai Bon Odori Taikai in Hibiya Park. 4  Oedo Matsuri Bon Odori Taikai. 5  Tokyo Disney celebrates Obon numerous ways.
Obon was originally celebrated around the 15th day of the seventh month in the lunar calendar. Obon periods are nowadays different in various regions of Japan. In most regions, Obon is celebrated around August 15, and it typically begins 13th and ends 16th of August. In some areas in Tokyo, Obon is celebrated around July 15, and it is still celebrated on the 15th day of the seventh month in the lunar calendar in many areas in Okinawa.