Michael Sam became the first openly-gay player to play in a professional football game last week, but he left the team over concerns over his mental state. The last 12 months have been very difficult for me, Sam said, to the point where I became concerned with mental health.. Recent News. Free agent DE Michael Sam has fired his agents and is refocused on making an NFL team in 2016. Sam spent part of the spring and summer with the CFL's Montreal Alouettes, but quit the team twice and ultimately walked away from football in August.
Went over Michael Sam's preseason tape, he can definitely play in the league as situational pass rusher. High motor leaps off film at you.— Benjamin Allbright (@AllbrightNFL) August 29, 2014. Went over Michael Sam's preseason tape, he can definitely play in the league as situational pass rusher. High motor leaps off film at you. On this first play, against the Green Bay Packers, take a look at Sam’s get-off on his sack of quarterback Matt Flynn. I do not expect Michael Sam to end up on the Rams' 53-man roster. But he could absolutely end up on some team's 53.— Michael Silver (@MikeSilver) August 29, 2014
By Adam Howard. The Dallas Cowboys on Tuesday cut Michael Sam, the first openly gay active NFL player. The Texas-based team was the second franchise to sign him. The defensive end was let go by St. Louis Rams in August, who made history when they drafted him in the seventh round earlier this year. 
(CNN) -- The St. Louis Rams announced Saturday that Michael Sam, who made history as the first openly gay player to be drafted into the NFL, has been waived and did not make the team's final 53-man roster. MIAMI GARDENS, FL-AUGUST 28: Defensive end Michael Sam #96 of the St. Louis Rams reacts during pregame workouts before his team met the Miami Dolphins at Sun Life Stadium on August 28, 2014 in Miami Gardens, Florida. (Photo by Marc Serota/Getty Images).
Welcome to Montreal, Michael!”. By playing in the Canadian Football League, Michael Sam will essentially make history twice. Last year, he became the first openly gay football player in the NFL. Now that he has joined the Montreal Alouettes, Michael is the first openly gay football player in the CFL as well. Reports confirm that Sam, a former Missouri Tiger, has signed on to play in the Canadian Football League. As a defensive end, Michael Sam, 25, will play with the Montreal Alouettes. http://t.co/SSa9jTb864 #IsItJuneYet #Alouettes pic.twitter.com/mc3GCuUiQV.
Sam was a consensus All-American and the Southeastern Conference (SEC) Defensive Player of the Year as a senior at Missouri. After completing his college football career, Sam publicly came out as gay. He became the first publicly gay player to be drafted in the NFL. The Rams cut him at the end of training camp. He also spent time on the Dallas Cowboys ' practice squad before being waived.
MICHAEL SAM CUT FROM RAMS ROSTER. There is still a chance he could play for the NFL. By Michelle Garcia. August 30 2014 4:47 PM EDT Updated October 01 2015 3:02 AM EDT. Out gay football player Michael Sam did not make the final cut to play on the St. Louis Rams this fall, the team announced today. 
The St. Louis Rams were the first professional football team to take Michael Sam when they selected him in the seventh round of the 2014 NFL draft. On August 30 of the same year, however, Sam was released during the team’s final round of roster cuts. Reports confirm that Sam, a former Missouri Tiger, has signed on to play in the Canadian Football League. As a defensive end, Michael Sam, 25, will play with the Montreal Alouettes. http://t.co/SSa9jTb864 #IsItJuneYet #Alouettes pic.twitter.com/mc3GCuUiQV.
Michael Sam became the first openly gay NFL draft pick when he was selected by the St. Louis Rams with the 249th pick in May. Michael Sam, the first openly gay player drafted by an NFL team, never would have come out before May's draft if he had it his way. 