Onomatopoeia is defined as a word, which imitates the natural sounds of a thing. Onomatopoeia, in its more complicated use, takes the form of phanopoeia. Phanopoeia is a form of onomatopoeia that describes the sense of things rather than their natural sounds. D.H Lawrence in his poem “Snake” illustrates the use of this form: “He reached down from a fissure in the earth-wall in the gloom.
Onomatopoeia is a word that imitates the sound or suggests the source of the sound that it describes. It is commonly used in comic strips as action sounds and in nursery rhymes. Onomatopoeia is used to help the reader hear and be involved in the writer's written word, by describing the action with a sound. Why don’t you try writing a poem using Onomatopoeia and enter it into one of our poetry competitions.
Calling this train a choo choo is an example of onomatopoeia. The definition of onomatopoeia is a poetic structure of words to convey how something sounds. An example of onomatopoeia is a poem about a stream written in a way to imitate the sound of a stream. Onomatopoeia is defined as a word that sounds like the common sound of the object it is describing. An example of onomatopoeia is a train being called a choo choo
Onomatopoeia Definition. Onomatopoeia is defined as a word, which imitates the natural sounds of a thing. It creates a sound effect that mimics the thing described, making the description more expressive and interesting. Onomatopoeia, in its more complicated use, takes the form of phanopoeia. Phanopoeia is a form of onomatopoeia that describes the sense of things rather than their natural sounds. D.H Lawrence in his poem “Snake” illustrates the use of this form: “He reached down from a fissure in the earth-wall in the gloom.
Full Definition of ONOMATOPOEIA. 1. : the naming of a thing or action by a vocal imitation of the sound associated with it (as buzz, hiss). 2. : the use of words whose sound suggests the sense. — on·o·mato·poe·ic \-ˈpē-ik\ or on·o·mato·po·et·ic \-pō-ˈe-tik\ adjective. 
Onomatopoeia is a word that imitates the source of a sound that the word describes. For example a clock makes a tick tock noise. Tick and tock are examples of onomatopoeia. Below are several examples of oomatopoeia within famous poems. 1 Identify examples of onomatopoeia in poetry on your own. 2  Explain the purpose for the onomatopoeia and analyze how it contributes to the theme of the poem. 3  I have provided analysis with my examples to show you what I mean. 4  Write poems containing onomatopoeia.
Poetry Definition. Also spelled onomatopoeia. Onomatopœia a figure of speech that employs a, word or, occasionally a grouping of, words that imitates the sound it is, describing and thus suggests its source. Object a word imitating a. sound Gr. ?; ?, ?, a name + ? to make.] (Philol.) The formation of words in imitation of sounds; a figure of speech in which the sound of a word is imitative of the sound of the thing which the word represents; as, the buzz of bees; the hiss of a goose; the crackle of fire.
Poetry Definition. Also spelled onomatopoeia. Onomatopœia a figure of speech that employs a, word or, occasionally a grouping of, words that imitates the sound it is, describing and thus suggests its source. object Gr. ?; ?, ?, a name + ? to make.] (Philol.) The formation of words in imitation of sounds; a figure of speech in which the sound of a word is imitative of the sound of the thing which the word represents; as, the buzz of bees; the hiss of a goose; the crackle of fire.