Green or Dark Yellow Phlegm. A thick and dark yellow phlegm may be a sign of a viral or bacterial infection, sinus infection, or lower respiratory tract infection. Typically, this occurs when the immune system sends white blood cells, known as neutrophils, to the area of infection. Pink Phlegm. Pink-colored phlegm is anything but pretty. Coughing up pink phlegm is an indicator of pulmonary edema, also known as fluid in the lungs. It can also be a sign of bleeding when seen in small amounts, which show up as a stain or streak.
If you’re coughing up yellow, green, or brown phlegm, your body is in the process of fighting an infection. If the color of your phlegm is brown or gray, it may be your body is expelling tars or resins built up from smoking or inhaling large amounts of dust. 
Home » Pulmonology » Phlegm ». Phlegm or respiratory system mucus is a gel like substance produced by upper and lower respiratory system organs in response to various types of irritants in the form of allergens, viruses, bacteria, environmental toxins and pollution. However, in response to various irritants and inflammatory processes, the color of phlegm changes along with its consistency. The presence of white blood cells, proteins and irritants gives mucus its tint.
Your mucus can also change color when you're sick. Green mucus is a sign that your body’s immune system is at work. The color comes from a type of infection-fighting white blood cell. “With cold or flu, mucus starts clear, then begins to darken as it gets thicker, Kemmerly says. 
The green-colored phlegm is often produced due to a long term infection or non-infectious inflammatory causes. The color of the phlegm can be attributed to the enzyme called myeloperoxidases (MPO) which is caused by the breakdown of neutrophils in the cells and secreted by the white blood cells. The phlegm can be a sign of infections like bronchitis, pneumonia, cold or flu, chronic sinus problems, asthma and even lung cancer in certain situations. Different types of infections produce different colored phlegm. The color of sputum could help in identifying the nature of an infection.
A rainbow of mucus and phlegm As far as color goes, mucus is typically clear. But when the immune system sends white blood cells into the nose to fight off infection, they contain a greenish enzyme that shades the substance yellow or green. These are the same tones mucus takes on when it dries and clumps into boogers. 
Color of phlegm is a very helpful way for you to know how your body is coping with an illness. No matter what the color of phlegm is, if it’s accompanied by a fever of 102 F degrees or higher, if you generally feel run down, experience wheezing, chest pains and persistent cough, it is time to call a doctor. However, in response to various irritants and inflammatory processes, the color of phlegm changes along with its consistency. The presence of white blood cells, proteins and irritants gives mucus its tint.
Normal Mucus is a whitish cloudy looking glob – Your fine! Dr Oz Phlegm – Yellow Phlegm Green Phlegm Red Phlegm Yellow phlegm means a viral infection – If you yellow phlegm, you could see this color phlegm if you have a cold or bronchitis. It has a thicker consistency. Green Phlegm – Green Phlegm is the first sign that you need antibiotics, you could have pneumonia. The consistency is typically thick like molasses and sticks in your throat. Guaifenesin is found in a lot of OTC medications.
Coughing up yellow mucus can be a sign of a sinus infection, especially when the color changes to a dark yellow. It can also be a sign of bronchitis if it is accompanied by the symptoms already described for bronchitis under Green mucus, above. Yet when the air is very dry some persons produce a light yellow mucus. Brown mucus. 1  Smokers or non-smokers who have been heavenly subjected to tobacco smoke, can have mucus turned into a brown color. 2  if the mucus or liquid is yellow-brown or greenish and part of vomit, and it is accompanied by other symptoms such as: 3  severe abdominal pain. 4  lump in the abdomen.
A rainbow of mucus and phlegm. As far as color goes, mucus is typically clear. But when the immune system sends white blood cells into the nose to fight off infection, they contain a greenish enzyme that shades the substance yellow or green. These are the same tones mucus takes on when it dries and clumps into boogers.