Larynx (Throat) Polyps. Laryngeal polyps (also called throat or vocal cord polyps) are growths on the larynx (voice box). In most cases it is the result of injury to the vocal cords (folds of mucous tissue in the voice box) through overuse of the voice. In the vast majority of cases, they are not cancerous. The most common sites for growth are the nasal passage of the nose, the vocal cords (larynx) and colon (colorectal polyp). The two types unique to women are uterine polyps and cervical polyps. The cause of cervical polyps is not completely understood.
Nodules are most frequently caused by vocal abuse or misuse. Polyps may be caused by long-term vocal abuse but may also occur after a single, traumatic event to the vocal cords, such as yelling at a concert. Long-term cigarette smoking, hypothyroidism, and GERD may also cause polyp formation. The nodules will become larger and stiffer the longer the vocal abuse continues. Polyps can take a number of forms. They are sometimes caused by vocal abuse. Polyps appear on either one or both of the vocal cords. They appear as a swelling or bump (like a nodule), a stalk-like growth, or a blister-like lesion. Most polyps are larger than nodules and may be called by other names, such as polypoid degeneration or Reinke's edema
Direct rigid laryngoscopy may be used as a surgical procedure to remove foreign objects in the throat, collect tissue samples (biopsy), remove polyps from the vocal cords, or perform laser treatment. Direct rigid laryngoscopy may also be used to help find cancer of the voice box (larynx). Laryngoscopy is an examination that lets your doctor look at the back of your throat, your voice box (larynx) , and vocal cords with a scope (laryngoscope). There are two types of laryngoscopy, and each uses different equipment.
The larynx /ˈlaerɪŋks/ (ˈlærɪŋks plural; larynges from The greek λάρυγξ), larynx lárynx commonly called the, voice box is an organ in the neck, of, amphibians reptiles and mammals involved, in breathing, sound production and protecting the trachea against. Food aspiration it manipulates pitch. and volume The larynx /ˈlaerɪŋks/ (ˈlærɪŋks plural; larynges from The greek λάρυγξ), larynx lárynx commonly called the, voice box is an organ in the neck, of, amphibians reptiles and mammals involved, in breathing, sound production and protecting the trachea against. food aspiration
laryngeal. pertaining to the larynx. laryngeal adductory reflex, adduction test. slapping of the saddle region of a horse just behind the withers causes a flickering, adductory movement of the contralateral arytenoid cartilage in normal horses. The movement of the cartilage can be viewed endoscopically. laryngeal ventricle. a bilateral outpocketing of the laryngeal mucosa in the dog, pig and horse. In the dog and the horse they are between the vocal and vestibular folds in the lateral walls of the laryngeal vestibule. In the pig they are in the lateral wall of the glottis.
A person with a laryngeal polyp has a growth on the vocal cord. A polyp is a ball of tissue, attached to the vocal cord by a stalk. Laryngeal polyps are made up of the cells that line the vocal cords. In most cases, laryngeal polyps are caused by an injury to the vocal cords by overusing the voice. Most laryngeal polyps are non-cancerous. Treatment for laryngeal polyps depends on the size of the polyp. Treatment may include resting the voice, and surgery to remove the polyp. A special procedure, known as microlaryngoscopy, allows the doctor to remove a laryngeal polyp without making an incision.
the laryngeal saccules protrude into the lumen of the larynx, become edematous and cause upper airway obstruction with increased inspiratory effort. laryngeal fremitus. a vibration palpable at the throat with partial obstruction of the larynx. laryngeal ventricle. a bilateral outpocketing of the laryngeal mucosa in the dog, pig and horse. In the dog and the horse they are between the vocal and vestibular folds in the lateral walls of the laryngeal vestibule. In the pig they are in the lateral wall of the glottis.