Renal tubular acidosis, a kidney condition that makes the urine more acidic. Kidney stones form more easily in acidic urine. ... Uric acid, calcium oxalate, and cystine stones form more readily in acidic urine, so this prevention strategy hinges on keeping the urine slightly alkaline. This is usually done with medication, but your doctor might ask you to make some dietary changes as well.
Because certain medications can make your urine more acidic, your physician also may order the urine pH test to determine if the medicine is making your urine too acidic. The urine pH test can also be used to determine the best medication to prescribe when you have a urinary tract infection. For example, according to the National Institutes of Health, antibiotic medications such as streptomycin, neomycin, and kanamycin are most effective when your urine is alkaline (NIH, 2001).
A urine pH test can tell your doctor how acidic or basic (alkaline) your urine is using a simple, painless urine test. Many diseases, your diet, and the medicines you take can affect how acidic or basic your urine is.
The urine pH is a measure of the ‘acid’ in the urine. On the pH scale, the ph value in neutral is 7. For instance, pure water has pH of 7, anything more than this is basic and anything lesser than this is 7 is acidic. So if the pH value of your urine is lower than 7, it
Sponsored link. The urine pH is a measure of the ‘acid’ in the urine. On the pH scale, the ph value in neutral is 7. For instance, pure water has pH of 7, anything more than this is basic and anything lesser than this is 7 is acidic. So if the pH value of your urine is lower than 7, it
An acidic urine may increase your risk of developing uric acid kidney stones. A diet that increases your intake of foods that make the urine more alkaline, including citrus fruits, vegetables and dairy products, may help limit your risk of developing these stones.
Uric acid is a chemical created when the body breaks down substances called purines. Most uric acid dissolves in blood and travels to the kidneys, where it passes out in urine. If your body produces too much uric acid or does not remove enough of it, you may get sick.