The flexor tendons are smooth, flexible, thick strings which bend your fingers-they look a bit like clothesline rope. They work like a bicycle brake cable to bend your fingers, sliding in and out of the finger as it straightens and bends. 
An Achilles tendon injury can affect both professional and amateur athletes. The Achilles tendon is one of the longer tendons in your body, stretching from the bones of your heel to your calf muscles. You can feel it -- a springy band of tissue at the back of your ankle and above your heel. It allows you to extend your foot and point your toes to the floor. Symptoms of an Achilles tendon injury are: 1  Pain along the back of your foot and above your heel, especially when stretching your ankle or standing on your toes; with tendinitis, pain may be mild and worsen gradually. 2  If you rupture the tendon, pain can be abrupt and severe. 3  Tenderness. 4  Swelling. 5  Stiffness.
It also helps keep your shoulder stable. Tendons attach muscles to bones. Your biceps tendons attach the biceps muscle to bones in the shoulder and in the elbow. If you tear the biceps tendon at the shoulder, you may lose some strength in your arm and be unable to forcefully turn your arm from palm down to palm up.
Muscles and tendons are the tissues that move joints. The muscles are the “red meat” of the body. When they receive a signal from the brain via the nerves the muscles contract i.e. shorten and bunch. The pull is transmitted through the tendon to the bone on the far side of the joint so the joint moves. Muscle and tendon injuries are often obvious because of local pain and swelling. Initially the injury may be underestimated as patients’ are often reluctant to move local joints when they are sore from injury. Joint movement should return within days if the muscle/tendon is intact.
Get help from a doctor now ›. Not a ligament: A ligament connects bone to bone. A tendon connects muscle to bone. Thus, a biceps tendon tear maybe the problem. The biceps can tear at the shoulder or at the elbow. Proximal tears in the shoulder are painful temporarily and usually treated with physical therapy. Distal bicops tears at the elbow are painful and affect function and usually require surgery. See your sports doc for a work up.
A deep cut on the palm side of your fingers, hand, wrist, or forearm can damage your flexor tendons, which are the tissues that help control movement in your hand. A flexor tendon injury can make it impossible to bend your fingers or thumb. Anatomy. Tendons are tissues that connect muscles to bone. Description. A torn or cut tendon in the forearm, at the wrist, in the palm, or along the finger will make it impossible to bend one or more joints in a finger. Because flexor tendons are very close to the surface of the skin, a deep cut will most likely hit a flexor tendon.
Like a rubber band, tendons are under tension as they connect the muscle to the bone. If a tendon is torn or cut, the ends of the tendon will pull far apart, making it impossible for the tendon to heal on its own. Because the nerves to the fingers are also very close to the tendons, a cut may damage them, as well. Description. A torn or cut tendon in the forearm, at the wrist, in the palm, or along the finger will make it impossible to bend one or more joints in a finger. Because flexor tendons are very close to the surface of the skin, a deep cut will most likely hit a flexor tendon.
Best Answer: When something is put into a cast, the tendons and ligaments can become tight and inflexible. When this happens, they easily become inflamed with normal activities. Tendon and ligament inflammation causes a nearly constant ache, and possibly sharp pain when you try to bend the affected joint(s). 