Devic's syndrome (also known as Devic's disease and Neuromyelitis Optica) is a rare, chronic, inflammatory and demyelinating disease of the central nervous system (CNS) which resembles Multiple Sclerosis in several ways. 
When the immune system releases antibodies that attack myelin, the spinal cord or/and optic nerve become inflamed which in turn causes numbness, weakness or paralysis of the limbs (transverse myelitis) or/and blindness in one or both eyes (usually temporary) or loss of colour vision (optic neuritis). Some people with Devic’s disease have only one attack and recover completely without any lasting consequences but most patients experience relapses. These are usually milder than in patients with the so-called monophasic Devic’s disease, however, each attack causes further damage to myelin.
Neuromyelitis optica, also known as Devic disease (DD), is a chronic disorder of nerve tissue characterized by inflammation of the optic nerve (optic neuritis) and inflammation of the spinal cord (myelitis). There appear to be two forms of this disease. 
﻿What is Devic’s Disease. Devic’s disease, also known as neuromyelitis optica is an autoimmune disorder in which the immune system attacks the myelin cells in the spinal cord or/and optic nerves causing the so-called optic neuritis or/and transverse myelitis. Some people with Devic’s disease have only one attack and recover completely without any lasting consequences but most patients experience relapses. These are usually milder than in patients with the so-called monophasic Devic’s disease, however, each attack causes further damage to myelin.
(Redirected from Devic's disease). Neuromyelitis optica (NMO), also known as Devic's disease or Devic's syndrome, is a heterogeneous condition consisting of the simultaneous inflammation and demyelination of the optic nerve (optic neuritis) and the spinal cord (myelitis). It can be monophasic or recurrent. Devic's disease is more common in Asians than Caucasians. In fact, Asian optic-spinal MS (which constitutes 30% of the cases of MS in Japan) has been suggested to be identical to Devic's disease (differences between optic-spinal and classic MS in Japanese patients).
AQP4+ NMO is currently considered an autoimmune disease (autoimmune astrocytopathy, or autoimmune astrocytic channelopathy) in which a person's own immune system attacks the astrocytes of the optic nerves and spinal cord. The cause of the AQP4- variants is unknown. Devic's disease is more common in Asians than Caucasians. In fact, Asian optic-spinal MS (which constitutes 30% of the cases of MS in Japan) has been suggested to be identical to Devic's disease (differences between optic-spinal and classic MS in Japanese patients).
In general, the test for oligoclonal bands (a test that is often positive in MS) is usually negative in the spinal fluid in Devic's disease. Oligoclonal bands are immunoglobulins (or antibodies), proteins produced by the immune system to fight off invaders like bacteria or viruses. A blood test known as the NMO-IgG blood test is positive in 70 percent of patients diagnosed with Devic's disease. Another difference in findings for Devic's disease as compared to MS is that cerebrospinal fluid may show a greater increase in white blood cells than in MS patients, and may show a type of cell (neutrophil) that is not usually seen in MS.
General Discussion. Neuromyelitis optica, also known as Devic disease (DD), is a chronic disorder of nerve tissue characterized by inflammation of the optic nerve (optic neuritis) and inflammation of the spinal cord (myelitis). There appear to be two forms of this disease. 
Devic's disease, or neuromyelitis optica, (NMO) is a type of inflammatory demyelinating disease. A demyelinating disease occurs when the myelin sheath, a protective covering that surrounds brain and spinal cord nerves is damaged. In the case of Devic's disease, the patient develops myelitis (inflammation of the spinal cord) and optic neuritis (inflammation of the optic nerve). 1 NMO is an example of an autoimmune disease. 2  Experts are not sure why autoimmune diseases, such as NMO occur. 3  The immune system of a patient with NMO attacks the myelin sheath, the protective blanket for the spinal cord and optic nerve.