Hastelloy C is an alloy composed of nickel, molybdenum, chromium and iron, Hastelloy™ Alloy-C maintains its outstanding properties in extreme heat, holding its strength and resisting oxidation. Hastelloy C is also resists chlorine and compounds with chlorine, as well as strong oxidizing acids, acid mixes and salts. One of the most corrosion-resistant alloys, it’s exceptional in high-stress applications and in environments prone to repeated thermal shock. With nickel, molybdenum and chromium in the mix, Hastelloy C is highly weldable and offers tremendous heat resistance that makes it perfect for applications in seals, springs and other pieces of mechanical structures such as aerospace parts.
Haynes International Inc. is a manufacturer of metal alloys employing more than 1,070 employees worldwide with sales of $434.4 million in 2007 with 8 plants around the world. The corporation is headquartered in Kokomo, Indiana. Haynes International now primarily produces two families of products, Ultimet and Hastelloy. Both sets of alloys are designed to be highly corrosion and wear resistant compared to common types of iron alloys. Each set of alloys has variations with advantages and disadvantages for specific uses
Hastelloy B2 is a nickel-molybdenum alloy with significant resistance to reducing environments, such as hydrogen chloride gas and sulfuric, acetic and phosphoric acids. Hastelloy B2 provides resistance to pure sulfuric acid and a number of non-oxidizing acids. HASTELLOY Alloy B-2 is a nickel-molybdenum alloy particularly suited for equipment handling reducing chemical environments. Applications in the chemical process industry involving sulfuric, phosphoric, hydrochloric and acetic acid.
Hastelloy C-276® is a nickel-molybdenum-chromium alloy with excellent corrosion resistance in severe environments. Hastelloy C-276® is used in pollution control, chemical processing, pulp and paper production, and waste treatment. 
Haynes International, Inc., headquartered in Kokomo, Indiana, USA, is a leading developer, manufacturer and marketer of high-performance nickel-and cobalt-based alloys used in corrosion and high-temperature applications. 
MATERIAL OVERVIEW. Hastelloy® is a trademark for a series of high-strength, nickel based, corrosion resistant alloys produced by Haynes International. Alloys of identical chemical and mechanical properties are available from other manufacturers and offer excellent alternatives to the various Hastelloy alloys. 
Hastelloy Availability. Mega Mex supplies Hastelloy C276, C22, X, B3 and B2. Most of these alloys are available in the form of plate, sheet, bar, pipe, tubing, pipe fittings, flanges and welding material. Request a Quote today on any of these alloys
UNS Number N10276. Other common names: Alloy C276, Hastelloy C, Inconel® C-276. Hastelloy C276 is a nickel-molybdenum-chromium superalloy with an addition of tungsten designed to have excellent corrosion resistance in a wide range of severe environments. Alloy C-276 is widely used in the most severe environments such as chemical processing, pollution control, pulp and paper production, industrial and municipal waste treatment, and recovery of sour natural gas.