Since hurricanes are natural and form in the ocean around summer time near the equator (where the ocean is very hot), the area with the highest incidents of hurricanes (around … the world) would be near the gulf of mexico, florida, cal. Hurricanes are more likely to form in the northern hemisphere than the southern, and the area most hit is the China Sea area. There are a couple of interesting maps in wikiped … ia.org under Hurricanes/formation.
Hurricanes (by whatever name) are by far most common in the Pacific Ocean, with the western Pacific being most active. In some years, the Philippines are struck by more than 20 tropical storms and typhoons. The term applied to various storms depends on their location. Only one hurricane force storm has ever occurred in the South Atlantic-Hurricane Catarina in 2004. Below is a map showing where each tropical cyclone has tracked between 1851 and 2007... use our Interactive Tracker to plot the storms on top of road and aerial maps. When hurricanes strike is also determined by location. Below is a brief description of each basin's hurricane season.. More information can be obtained from the NOAA Hurricane FAQ. ATLANTIC: Hurricane season in the Atlantic runs from June 1 to November 30. Storms outside of these dates are not unheard of
The Carolina Hurricanes are a professional ice hockey team based in Raleigh, North Carolina. They are members of the Metropolitan Division of the Eastern Conference of the National Hockey League (NHL), and play their home games at the 18,680-seat PNC Arena. The Hurricanes were formed in 1971 as the New England Whalers of the World Hockey Association (WHA), and joined the NHL in 1979 as part of the NHL–WHA merger, renaming themselves the Hartford Whalers.
Credit: Most hurricanes that hit the United States begin either in the Caribbean or the Atlantic. Many of the worst start as seedlings coming off the coast of Africa. Like all tropical cyclones, a hurricane needs the warm water of the tropics, which feeds a storm with energy, in order to form. The atmosphere must be laden with moisture. Complete Coverage. Seasonal forecasts plus the science, facts and numbers behind nature's greatest storms.
The scientific name for a hurricane, regardless of its location, is tropical cyclone. In general, a cyclone is a large system of spinning air that rotates around a point of low pressure. Only tropical cyclones, which have warm air at their center, become the powerful storms that are called hurricanes. 
Answer by Taylor rolyaT. Confidence votes 6. Hurricanes are located in the Atlantic Ocean because of the amount of warm waters located here, and because of the different types of fronts, and storms taylor WPMS. Minor edit? Hurricanes are more likely to form in the northern hemisphere than the southern, and the area most hit is the China Sea area. There are a couple of interesting maps in wikiped … ia.org under Hurricanes/formation.
What is a hurricane? Well, a hurricane is a tropical cyclone that occurs in the North Atlantic Ocean or the Northeast Pacific Ocean and remains east of the International Dateline. Tropical cyclones are characterized by a large low pressure center and numerous thunderstorms. These produce strong winds and heavy rain. 
Hurricane Katrina was the eleventh named storm and fifth hurricane of the 2005 Atlantic hurricane season. It was the costliest natural disaster, as well as one of the five deadliest hurricanes, in the history of the United States. 
a hurricane is located in the Atlantic ocean or the eastern pacific ocean. It's located EXACTLY in the middle of the hurricane. The eye is about 2 miles long usually and is very calm and quiet and non threatening like the rest of the hurricane which … is deadly.
The National Hurricane Center is co-located with the National Weather Service Miami-South Florida Weather Forecast Office on the campus of Florida International University in Miami, Florida. 1  Brief history of the National Weather Service in Miami, Florida. Contact Us. The National Hurricane Center (NHC) is a component of the National Centers for Environmental Prediction (NCEP) located at