TB is an airborne disease caused by the bacterium Mycobacterium tuberculosis. (M. tuberculosis). M. tuberculosis and seven very closely related mycobacterial species (M. bovis, M. africanum, M. microti, M. caprae, M. pinnipedii, M. canetti and M. mungi) together comprise what is known as the M. tuberculosis complex.
1 Secondary tuberculosis: seen mostly in adults as a reactivation of previous infection (or reinfection), particularly when health status declines. 2  The granulomatous inflammation is much more florid and widespread. 3  Typically, the upper lung lobes are most affected, and cavitation can occur.
any pathological or traumatic discontinuity of tissue or loss of function of a part. Lesion is a broad term, including wounds, sores, ulcers, tumors, cataracts and any other tissue damage. They range from the skin sores associated with eczema to the changes in lung tissue that occur in tuberculosis.
Publisher Summary. This chapter discusses the pathological changes in tuberculosis. Tubercle bacilli are omnipresent, but while they can be in contact with tissue cells, it does not necessarily mean that there is a state of
In the United States, the majority of TB cases are caused by M. tuberculosis. M. tuberculosis organisms are also called tubercle bacilli. Figure 2.1 Mycobacterium tuberculosis Transmission of TB M. tuberculosis is carried in airborne particles, called droplet nuclei, of 1– 5 microns in diameter.
General Features. Mycobacterium tuberculosis is the organism that is the causative agent for tuberculosis (TB). There are other atypical mycobacteria such as M. kansasii that may produced a similar clincal and pathologic appearance of disease.
A specific disease caused by infection with Mycobacterium tuberculosis, the tubercle bacillus, which can affect almost any tissue or organ of the body; most common site is in the lungs.
Causes. Pulmonary tuberculosis (TB) is caused by the bacterium Mycobacterium tuberculosis (M. tuberculosis) . TB is contagious. This means the bacteria is easily spread from an infected person to someone else. You can get TB by breathing in air droplets from a cough or sneeze of an infected person.
Anergy, or absence of PPD reactivity in persons infected with TB, can occur in immunocompromised persons, or it may even occur in persons newly infected with TB, or in persons with miliary TB. 1  Injecting PPD intracutaneously, gross. 2  A properly placed TB skin test, gross. 3  A positive