A scherzo is a light-hearted movement found from the early 17th century in various forms, but used by Beethoven as an alternative to the minuet in symphonies, sonatas and other instrumental forms. Scherzo. A scherzo is a light-hearted movement found from the early 17th century in various forms, but used by Beethoven as an alternative to the minuet in symphonies, sonatas and other instrumental forms. Chopin expanded the form very considerably.
The Scherzo No. 1 in B minor, Op. 20, which is Chopin 's first scherzo, is a composition for solo piano written by Frederic Frédéric chopin between 1831 and 1832 and dedicated To Thomas. Albrecht the tempo marking Is presto con. fuoco From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The Scherzo No. 1 in B minor, Op. 20, which is Chopin 's first scherzo, is a composition for solo piano written by Frederic Frédéric chopin between 1831 and 1832 and dedicated To Thomas. albrecht
Full Definition of SCHERZO. : a sprightly humorous instrumental musical composition or movement commonly in quick triple time. See scherzo defined for English-language learners. ADVERTISEMENT. 
A scherzo is a piece of music, often a movement from a larger piece such as a symphony or a sonata. The scherzo's precise definition has varied over the years, but it often refers to a movement which replaces the minuet as the third movement in a four-movement work, such as a symphony, sonata, or string quartet. Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: scherzo (Noun). A piece of music or a movement from a larger piece such as a symphony; especially, a piece of music played in a playful manner.
Introduction. Scherzo, loosely translated as 'joking' or 'to joke,' is a term that has been applied to many pieces of music since early in the 17th century before later becoming slightly more standardized and applied to any movement that takes the place of a minuet in a sonata cycle. Origins & Today. The first use of the word 'scherzo' to describe a musical composition took place in Italy in 1605, where it was used to describe vocal music that was based on the 'poetic scherzo,' a poetic form.
A scherzo (/ˈskɛrt.soʊ/ ; [ˈskertso] ; plural scherzos or scherzi), in western classical music, is a piece of music, often a movement from a larger piece such as a symphony or a sonata. An early use of the word scherzo in music is in light-hearted madrigals of the early baroque period, which were often called scherzi musicali, for example: 1  Claudio Monteverdi wrote two sets of works with this title, in 1607 and in 1632.
The scherzo itself is a rounded binary form, but, like the minuet, is usually played with the accompanying trio followed by a repeat of the scherzo, creating the ABA or ternary form. This is sometimes done twice or more (ABABA). An early use of the word scherzo in music is in light-hearted madrigals of the early baroque period, which were often called scherzi musicali, for example: 1  Claudio Monteverdi wrote two sets of works with this title, in 1607 and in 1632.
scherzo. (skĕr`tsō) [Ital.,=joke], in music, term denoting various types of composition, primarily one that is lively and presents surprises in the rhythmic or melodic material. In 1607 a group of light pieces for voice were published by Monteverdi as scherzi musicali. Like the burlesque, the scherzo is often associated with the expression of humor, ranging from the lighthearted to the darkly ominous and grotesque. The scherzo is usually written in a three-part, reprise form, with a trio in a more serene mood. The classical scherzo was perfected by Beethoven.