Iron Content of Some Common Foods. 1  Animal sources (called “heme iron”) include meat, fish and poultry. 2  Plant sources (called “non-heme iron”) include dried beans, peas and lentils and some fruits and vegetables. 3  In Canada, grain products like flour, pasta and breakfast cereals are fortified with iron. Iron Content of Some Common Foods. 1  Animal sources (called “heme iron”) include meat, fish and poultry. 2  Our bodies easily absorb this type of iron. 3
Iron-deficiency anemia, the most common form of anemia, is a decrease in the number of red blood cells caused by too little iron. Without sufficient iron, your body can't produce enough hemoglobin, a substance in red blood cells that makes it possible for them to carry oxygen to the body's tissues. Iron in plant foods such as lentils, beans, and spinach is nonheme iron. This is the form of iron added to iron-enriched and iron-fortified foods. Our bodies are less efficient at absorbing nonheme iron, but most dietary iron is nonheme iron. 1  1.
Are some foods with iron better than others? Food has two types of iron — heme iron and non-heme iron. Heme iron is found in meat, fish and poultry, and is the form of iron that is most readily absorbed from your stomach and taken up into your body after you eat it. Non-heme iron is found in plant foods as well as meat. When you eat heme iron with other sources of non-heme iron, the iron is more completely absorbed. Foods high in vitamin C, like tomatoes, citrus fruits and red, yellow and orange peppers can also help with the absorption of
Heme iron is derived from hemoglobin. It is found in animal foods that originally contained hemoglobin, such as red meats, fish, and poultry. Your body absorbs the most iron from heme sources. Iron in plant foods such as lentils, beans, and spinach is nonheme iron. This is the form of iron added to iron-enriched and iron-fortified foods. Our bodies are less efficient at absorbing nonheme iron, but most dietary iron is nonheme iron. 1  1.
1 Getty Images Are You Eating Enough Iron-rich Food? 2  Iron deficiency is the most common form of nutritional deficiency – especially among children and pregnant women – according to the Center for Disease Control and Prevention. “It’s important to get both types from your diet.”. Here are 10 iron-rich foods that can help you do that. 1  Getty Images Liver Organ meats like liver and giblets are some of the best sources of heme iron, with the added bonus of other minerals, vitamins, and protein.
Iron deficiency anemia is a worldwide health problem that is especially common in young women and in children. Iron is found in food in two forms, heme and non-heme iron. Heme iron, which makes up 40 percent of the iron in meat, poultry, and fish, is well absorbed. Non-heme iron, 60 percent of the iron in animal tissue and all the iron in plants (fruits, vegetables, grains, nuts) is less well absorbed. Because vegan diets only contain non-heme iron, vegans should be especially aware of foods that are high in iron and techniques that can promote iron absorption.
Foods with non-heme iron are still good to eat, but the iron contained in these foods won’t be absorbed as completely as heme iron. You absorb up to 30 percent of heme iron, found only in animal tissues (meat, poultry, and fish). You absorb 2-10 percent of non-heme iron, found in plant foods as well as meat. When you eat heme iron with other sources of non-heme iron, the iron is more completely absorbed. Foods high in vitamin C, like tomatoes, citrus fruits and red, yellow and orange peppers can also help with the absorption of non-heme iron.
Although iron is widely distributed in foods, some sources are better absorbed than others. The best sources of iron are foods with a high iron content and are easily absorbed by the body. Iron absorption is best (15-18%) from foods that contain haem iron. Red meat, seafood and poultry are the best sources of haem iron. Some substances in food inhibit the absorption of iron. Excessive intakes of tea, coffee and bran have an inhibitory effect.
Heme iron can be obtained mainly from protein found in red meats, white meats, and fish. Nonheme iron can be obtained from meat, dairy products, plant foods, and iron salts that are sometimes added to various foods. The following factors can enhance and inhibit the absorption of nonheme iron into your blood: Iron is an essential component of hundreds of enzymes and proteins in your body. As it is with other trace minerals, a little iron goes a long way. More specifically, your body needs about 1/2 to 1 teaspoon of iron at any given time to carry out its everyday metabolic activities.