The North Pole, also known as the Geographic North Pole, Celestial North Pole, or Terrestrial North Pole, is (subject to the caveats explained below) defined as the point in the Northern Hemisphere where the Earth's axis of rotation meets its surface. It should not be confused with the North Magnetic Pole. The North Pole is the northernmost point on the Earth, lying diametrically opposite the South Pole. It defines geodetic latitude 90° North, as well as the direction of true north. At the North Pole all directions point south; all lines of longitude converge there, so its longitude can be defined as any degree value. The Earth's axis of rotation – and hence the position of the North Pole – was commonly believed to be fixed (relative to the surface of the Earth) until, in the 18th century, the mathematician Leonhard Euler predicted that the axis might wobble slightly.
This line is called the Earth’s axis. The North Pole is at the northern end of this axis, and the South Pole is at the southern end. You might say that these poles are at the ends of the Earth! The area around the North Pole is called the Arctic, while the area around the South Pole is called the Antarctic. The North Pole and the South Pole are at opposite ends of the Earth, and they have their differences.
The north and south pole are the earth's equivalent of a bar magnet, with a north and south pole. If you hold a bar magnet up, tied to a piece of string, the north pole of the … bar magnet will face the earth's north pole. The earth has an inner magnet. 
Magnetic poles are defined in different ways. They are commonly understood as positions on the Earth's surface where the geomagnetic field is vertical (i.e., perpendicular) to the ellipsoid. These north and south positions, called dip poles, do not need to be (and are not currently) antipodal. 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The North Pole, also known as the Geographic North Pole or Terrestrial North Pole, is, subject to the caveats explained below, defined as the point in the northern hemisphere where the Earth's axis of rotation meets the Earth's surface. It should not be confused with the North Magnetic Pole. The North Pole is the northernmost point on Earth, lying diametrically opposite the South Pole. It defines latitude 90° North, as well as the direction of True North. At the North Pole all directions point south. While the South Pole lies on a continental land mass, the North Pole is located in the middle of the Arctic Ocean, amidst waters that are almost permanently covered with constantly shifting sea i
The 'South Pole' usually refers to the geographic South Pole, which is found at the southern tip of the Earth's axis. This is the southernmost point of Earth and is where all the Earth's lines of longitude meet. The geographic South Pole is found in central Antarctica and sits at about 2900 metres above sea level. 
If you look at the north pole of the bar magnet you have the field lines going from the north pole to the south pole, but for the earth it's exactly opposite, Maus explains. So the north magnetic pole is where the earth's magnetic field lines pull toward the planet, acting like the south pole of a bar magnet. The magnetic pole describes the two locations (north and south) where the planet's magnetic field is vertical. So if you're standing over the north magnetic pole with a compass, the needle would dip and try to point straight down—hence its other name: the magnetic dip pole.
A: Imagine a large pole being shoved into the earth and come out the other end. This is called the earth's axis. It's an imaginary rod that the earth spins around once a day. at the top of the earth is the north pole while the bottom of the earth is the south pole. The North Police is also called the Geographic North Pole or Terrestrial North Pole.
What you have been observing is the behavior of the north and south poles of a magnet. One end of any bar magnet will always want to point north if it is freely suspended. This is called the north-seeking pole of the magnet, or simply the north pole. The opposite end is called the south pole. The needle of a compass is itself a magnet, and thus the north pole of the magnet always points north, except when it is near a strong magnet. Remember that a compass is a magnet and the north pole of a magnet is attracted to the south pole of a magnet. This situation is also seen in Experiment 1 & 2. In Experiment 2, when you move the north pole of a magnet toward the south pole of the other magnet, the two magnets attract.
1978, and Young 1989. The region surrounding the North Pole consists of a large ocean surrounded by land. This ocean, called the Arctic Ocean, is like no other ocean on Earth; and because of its special location and climate, the lands that surround it are unique. 