If you lose weight too soon after childbirth, it can take longer for you to recover. Give yourself until your 6-week checkup before trying to slim down. If you are breastfeeding, wait until your baby is at least 2 months old before you try to lose weight. Aim for a weight loss of about a pound and a half a week.
Both pregnancy and labor can affect a woman's body. After giving birth you will lose about 10 pounds right away and a little more as body fluid levels decrease. Don't expect or try to lose additional pregnancy weight right away.
You should plan to return to your pre-pregnancy weight by 6 to 12 months after delivery. Most women lose half of their baby weight by 6 weeks after childbirth (postpartum). The rest usually comes off over the next several months. A healthy diet with daily exercise will help you shed the pounds.
In the first few days after you give birth, you’ll lose weight quickly, as the extra water you carried during late pregnancy is passed out in your wee and sweat. You will lose more weight as the amount of circulating blood returns to normal levels, and your uterus gets smaller.
As the level of the hormone progesterone in your body drops, the tone of smooth muscle throughout your body improves. Pregnancy hormones can still affect your joints for up to six months after giving birth, so keep exercise gentle for the first few months. Don't do anything high-impact too soon (ACPWH 2010) .
If you started out at a normal weight and gained the 25-35 pounds your doctor probably recommended, it shouldn't take you more than a couple of months to get back to your pre-pregnancy weight if you watch what you eat and exercise.
The pregnancy got her up to 155 pounds, but right after giving birth she lost a lot of water weight along with the weight from the baby and was back down to 135 pounds.
You probably won't return to your pre-pregnancy weight for some time, but you will lose a significant amount of weight immediately after delivery. Subtracting one 7- to 8-pound baby, about a pound or so of placenta, and another few pounds of blood and amniotic fluid leaves most new moms about 12 pounds lighter.