A scalar has only magnitude. A vector has magnitude and direction.   Acceleration is a vector because it has magnitude and direction. That's why an o … bject can be said to be accelerating if it has a circular rotation and a constant speed; even though it's speed isn't changing, it's direction constantly is.
You've already chosen the best response. It's a vector because acceleration has both a direction and a magnitude. An example would be a car stopping at a rate of 10 m/s. In this example the direction of acceleration is opposite the direction of velocity (towards the trunk) and the magnitude is 10 m/s. Show full answer. 
Velocity is a physical vector quantity; both magnitude and direction are needed to define it. The scalar absolute value (magnitude) of velocity is called speed, a quantity that is measured in metres per second (m/s or m⋅s −1) in the SI (metric) system. For example, 5 metres per second is a scalar (not a vector), whereas 5 metres per second east is a vector. If there is a change in speed, direction, or both, then the object has a changing velocity and is said to be undergoing an acceleration.
The term acceleration can refer to a scalar acceleration or an acceleration vector. So far, we have only met scalar acceleration, e.g. 5 m/s 2. Vector acceleration is a scalar acceleration and a direction, e.g. 5 m/s 2 to the right. Treat acceleration as a vector when there is another vector quantity, such as velocity or force, involved. Forces need a size and direction, e.g. 300 N to the left. Momentum is equal to mass x velocity
It is a vector. A scalar has only magnitude. A vector has magnitude and direction. Acceleration is a vector because it has magnitude and direction. That's why an object can be said to be accelerating if it has a circular rotation and a constant speed; even though it's speed isn't changing, it's direction constantly is. Mass is a scalar quantity because it doesn't have direction. Acceleration is a vector quantity because it has both magnitude and direction.
Report Abuse. Acceleration is the rate at which velocity changes. Velocity is a vector, in the sense that it has both magnitude and direction. Hence change in velocity means change in the direction or magnitude or change in both of the magnitude and direction of the velocity. Acceleration is a vector because it has a magnitude and a direction (Accelerating at a rate of 5 Miles Per Hour North). Speed is a scalar because it only has a magnitude (35 Miles Per Hour) . Velocity is the derivative of the acceleration and is also a vector (35 miles per hour North). Adam · 5 years ago.
Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Acceleration is a vector quantity [it have both magnitude (size) and direction] since it is the change in velocity over time in with velocity is a vector. As a vector quantity, acceleration is also the rate at which direction changes. Source(s): http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Acceleratio... Acceleration is defined as the rate of change of velocity. Acceleration is inherently a vector quantity, and an object will have non-zero acceleration if its speed and/or direction is changing..