Released on the global market in 2011, Totara closed a gap that Moodle, an education-focused LMS, left wide open. Developers of Totara recognized the need for an open source learning management system that addressed the core requirements expected of a high-end corporate learning management system. Rising quickly to the top, Totara is ranked as a one of 2014’s Top 20 learning portals worldwide by TrainingIndustry.com. Totara LMS can be easily integrated with online content resource repositories, human resource management systems, workforce management systems, compliance management records and business intelligence software. Furthermore, Totara can be installed on any computer that runs on PHP, and can support an SQL type database.
Tailored for the working professional, Totara LMS adds the following functionalities that enable corporate, healthcare, government and education clients like BMI Healthcare, McDonald’s and Tesco exceed their training and learning goals. Totara LMS can be easily integrated with online content resource repositories, human resource management systems, workforce management systems, compliance management records and business intelligence software. Furthermore, Totara can be installed on any computer that runs on PHP, and can support an SQL type database.
Totara LMS is an open source distribution of Moodle developed for the corporate and government market. Totara is translated into 19 languages and has over 5 million subscribers. The current version of Totara LMS is 2.7 and is based on Moodle 2.7.
As Totara is a custom distribution of Moodle, which is open source and the world’s most popular LMS, it provides the benefits of open source to the world of corporate learning. The results are no per user license fees and full access to the source code. This way the LMS can be tailored to the specific needs of the organization, its workforce and its partners. Totara is a customized distribution of Moodle, the most popular learning management system in the world, created for the corporate sector.
Starting from $2,950 Per year/user. Totara is a game-changing LMS for the corporate sector, comprising a rich feature set and commercial grade support but with all of the benefits and freedom open source brings to play. Developed as a distributio. Developed as a distribution of Moodle, the leading open source platform in the education sector, at Totara we have focused on the requirements of the corporate sector and extended the functionality to meet the specific requirements of corporate and work based learning.
Podocarpus totara (tōtara) is a species of podocarp tree endemic to New Zealand. It grows throughout the North Island and northeastern South Island in lowland, montane and lower subalpine forest at elevations of up to 600 m. Tōtara is commonly found in lowland areas where the soil is fertile and well drained. The tōtara is a medium to large tree which grows slowly to around 20 to 25 m, exceptionally to 35 m; it is noted for its longevity and the great girth of its trunk. The bark peels off in papery flakes, with a purplish to golden brown hue.
Totara LMS is a distribution of Moodle developed with the enterprise in mind. Totara LMS gives you powerful tools to manage and facilitate learning online. Totara LMS maps to your organisation’s structure, so that learning can be automatically allocated based on a range of organisational and system criteria.
Totara, or otherwise known as Totara LMS, is an open source talent and learning management system (LMS) that extends upon the core structure of Moodle for corporate, healthcare and government environments. Totara LMS can be easily integrated with online content resource repositories, human resource management systems, workforce management systems, compliance management records and business intelligence software. Furthermore, Totara can be installed on any computer that runs on PHP, and can support an SQL type database.
Totara LMS is an open source platform co-developed originally by Kineo UK, Kineo Pacific and Catalyst IT. We collaborated to create what we believe is a game-changer in the LMS market. It’s built on Moodle, the world’s most popular LMS – with a comprehensive and growing set of features for business. 