These back end systems could be both SAP and non-SAP. You are not just viewing data, but adding, changing, and deleting data (with all the correct security permissions, of course). For example, over 300 customers have implemented other SAP xApps such as: 1  SAP xApp Cost and Quotation Management (SAP xCQM). 2  SAP xApp Emissions (SAP xEM). 3  SAP xApp Product Definition (SAP xPD). Usually, it's a cooperative effort between a business expert and the data source expert (like BI, R/3, or database). First, the data source expert connects the new model to the appropriate back-end systems. Then, the business expert builds the user interface and designs the process the user will go through.
What does SAP stands for – SAP stands for Systems, Applications and Products in data processing. 1  SAP is the fourth largest software company in the world. 2  The SAP R/3 system is a business software package designed to integrate all areas of a business. SAP is an Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system by SAP AG, company based out of Walldorf in Germany. AG is derived from the German word AKtiengesellschaft.
This conversation between a Business Process Expert and an SAP xApp Analytics Implementation Expert first appeared on the SAP Developer Network. While both experts are SAP employees, we hope it may help bring some clarity to the much-hyped area of xApp Analytics. Usually, it's a cooperative effort between a business expert and the data source expert (like BI, R/3, or database). First, the data source expert connects the new model to the appropriate back-end systems. Then, the business expert builds the user interface and designs the process the user will go through.
JG: Yes, and it's important that SAP not force-feed xApps on its customers. The use case has been built on real ROI, not a cool-technology justification. There are lots of mini-xApps on the way, and lots of partners who will be deployed to push these new xApps into the market. This eco-system approach is the right way, and it will yield the necessary results in due time
SAP R/3 :– SAP upgraded R/2 to R/3. SAP R/3 is the client/server version of the software and it is 3 tier architecture in which three layers Presentation, Application and data base are installed in three server/system. SAP is an Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system by SAP AG, company based out of Walldorf in Germany. AG is derived from the German word AKtiengesellschaft.
Find sources: XApps – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR · free images (January 2014). xApp (SAP AG Composite Application), is a collective term applied to software products built following the SAP xApps convention and running on a SAP NetWeaver application server. Including a range of software products from SAP AG, solutions by SAP partners and customer made composite applications. The application architecture is defined by the SAP Composite Application Framework within the SAP NetWeaver platform. The framework includes the methodology, tools, and run-time environment to develop composite applications.
As we enter the second generation of xApps, with Duet functionality, Project Argo and hundreds of new xApps on the horizon, we decided to check in with veteran SAP guru Josh Greenbaum to take stock of where we are and what we can expect from xApps in the years ahead. The use case has been built on real ROI, not a cool-technology justification. There are lots of mini-xApps on the way, and lots of partners who will be deployed to push these new xApps into the market.
1 SAP is the fourth largest software company in the world. 2  The SAP R/3 system is a business software package designed to integrate all areas of a business. 3  It provides end to end solutions for financials, manufacturing, logistics, distribution etc. SAP is an Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system by SAP AG, company based out of Walldorf in Germany. AG is derived from the German word AKtiengesellschaft.
xApps typically have a smaller footprint than some of the company's other business applications such as MySAP. xApp is the general term for applications based on the SAP ESOA, i.e. applications using SAP enterprise SOA services. The application architecture is defined by the SAP Composite Application Framework within the SAP NetWeaver platform. The framework includes the methodology, tools, and run-time environment to develop composite applications.