These 10 animal facts will amaze you. Also known as oscillating or swinging vision, oscillopsia is a disorder of the eye. People suffering with this condition report that objects appear to move back and forth across their field of vision, as well as up and down. Oscillopsia treatment varies greatly depending upon the underlying reason for the development of the condition. Once a diagnosis of the cause is confirmed, treatment of that underlying condition can commence.
If the visual cortex is impaired due to the presence of toxins in the body, oscillating vision may also occur. It is important to note that people suffering with the condition may experience one type of movement of objects, or several different types at one time. Oscillopsia treatment varies greatly depending upon the underlying reason for the development of the condition. Once a diagnosis of the cause is confirmed, treatment of that underlying condition can commence.
SUMMARY: Oscillopsia may result either from impaired ocular stability or impaired compensation or suppression of afferent visual information resulting from normal eye movements. Understanding the exact mechanisms of oscillopsia may lead to novel treatment. Oscillopsia could also theoretically result from a deficit in mechanisms underpinning perceptual stability maintenance despite constant gaze displacement in the environment. The recent findings concerning the mechanisms and underlying neural network subserving this phenomenon of 'spatial constancy' are developed.
It's one that is very hard to understand when I tell you about it, so best given by way of the video below... The disability is bilateral Oscillopsia. Basically, when I lost all my balance, I lost my built in 'image stabiliser'. The video shows you what it is like for me when I walk. If I bump into someone I know in the street, I will not recognise them until I stop and get everything in focus. 
Oscillopsia: Oscillating vision. Swinging vision. In oscillopsia, objects seem to swing, move back and forth, jerk, or wiggle. A classical language hybrid derived from the Latin oscillo, to swing, + the Greek opsis, vision.
A person suffering with oscillopsia may experience objects that move back and forth, as well as up and down in their field of vision. Individuals with a severe head injury may experience oscillopsia. Some patients with oscillopsia experience bouts of vertigo. Oscillopsia treatment varies greatly depending upon the underlying reason for the development of the condition. Once a diagnosis of the cause is confirmed, treatment of that underlying condition can commence.
PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Oscillopsia is an illusion of an unstable visual world. It is associated with poor visual acuity and is a disabling and distressing condition reported by numerous patients with neurological disorders. Oscillopsia could also theoretically result from a deficit in mechanisms underpinning perceptual stability maintenance despite constant gaze displacement in the environment. The recent findings concerning the mechanisms and underlying neural network subserving this phenomenon of 'spatial constancy' are developed.
Oscillopsia is a visual disturbance in which objects in the visual field appear to oscillate. The severity of the effect may range from a mild blurring to rapid and periodic jumping. Oscillopsia is an incapacitating condition experienced by many patients with neurological disorders. Oscillopsia can also be used as a quantitative test to document aminoglycoside toxicity. Permanent oscillopsia can arise from an impairment of the ocular system that serves to maintain ocular stability. Paroxysmal oscillopsia can be due to an abnormal hyperactivity in the peripheral ocular or vestibular system.
Oscillopsia may also be caused by involuntary eye movements such as nystagmus, or impaired coordination in the visual cortex (especially due to toxins) and is one of the symptoms of superior canal dehiscence syndrome. Sufferers may experience dizziness and nausea. Oscillopsia can also be used as a quantitative test to document aminoglycoside toxicity. Permanent oscillopsia can arise from an impairment of the ocular system that serves to maintain ocular stability. Paroxysmal oscillopsia can be due to an abnormal hyperactivity in the peripheral ocular or vestibular system.