In the early years of Christianity, St Augustine (345-430 AD) pronounced suicide to be a 'mortal sin'. A century later, the Christian Church prohibited the saying of masses for the souls of those who died by suicide, and they were denied burial in hallowed ground. The last recorded 'unhallowed' burial of a suicide in Britain occurred as late as 1823.
Christian Burial. Help support New Advent and get the full contents of this website as an instant download. Includes the Catholic Encyclopedia, Church Fathers, Summa, Bible and more  all for only $19.99... The interment of a deceased person with ecclesiastical rites in consecrated ground. The Jews and most of the nations of antiquity buried their dead. Amongst the Greeks and Romans both cremation and interment were practised indifferently. For instance, the question may often arise whether a non-Catholic can be buried in a consecrated cemetery belonging, not to the civil administration, but to the Church, and perhaps adjoining the sacred building itself; or again in such a case whether non-Catholic worshippers can perform their own rites at the interment.
I don't believe we are damned for this, However I do believe we spent a lot of time in purgatory for it. Remember we have free will. But God reads whats in our hearts even in the times we despair, If we have not rejected God, God will know it. Yes, I feel we can be buried on sacred ground and have a mass said. Remember, We are taught to pray for the dead and why pray for someone who is already in heaven. Wouldn't it be a waste of time. 
Suicides, if they were buried in consecrated ground at all, were usually deposited in the north end, although their corpses were not allowed to pass through the cemetery gates to enter. They had to be passed over the top of the stone wall. 
Report Abuse. cemeteries are generally non Christian, therefore don't care how the person died. It used to be if you wanted to be buried in consecrated ground you can't commit suicide. I'm not sure what religions still enforce that rule. Any answers or references would be... show more In a recent conversation with my boyfriend we were discussing how a friend of a friend committed suicide and since his faith was Christianity, he was not able to buried in a Cemetery...
They cannot be buried in a churchyard, but when i worked as a council gravedigger in the 70s we did occasionally bury suicides in the cemetery but on a plot that was for non christian faiths, so maybe things haven't changed that much. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Yes, I am a Roman Catholic living in Ireland, and only one month ago my neighbours son hung himself, and he was given a full catholic funeral, and buried on consecrated ground.
I don't know about that, but there was a time when attempted suicides could theoretically be arrested and tried for attempted murder, (of themselves). maybe the two are linked. Drusilla1S. Suicide was considered sinful and the victims of suicide were forbidden burial in consecrated ground. In medieval times the tradition was to bury such people at the crossroads leading out of town. A century later, the Christian Church prohibited the saying of masses for the souls of those who died by suicide, and they were denied burial in hallowed ground. The last recorded 'unhallowed' burial of a suicide in Britain occurred as late as 1823.
Report Abuse. years ago they could not be but understanding vicars would allow them to be buried just outside consecrated ground. these days most vicars wait to see what the suicide verdict was; if balance of mind was disturbed they tend to accept that the person was not responsible and allow it. Some just turn a blind eye. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Yes, I am a Roman Catholic living in Ireland, and only one month ago my neighbours son hung himself, and he was given a full catholic funeral, and buried on
People’s ashes are not always buried or scattered in consecrated ground. One woman buried her father’s ashes under a cherry tree in the garden at home. After the cremation some people keep the ashes at home for a while, or leave them at the funeral director’s for a few weeks, until they decide what to do with them. 
However, in my own family tree I appear to have a 4x great aunt, Elizabeth LANGTRY (LANGTREY) who possibly committed suicide and WAS buried in consecrated ground at Breamore, Hampshire on 8th March 1786 aged 19. Against the burial entry the priest has added pois'ned herself. 