The first cause could be an infection in your gastrointestinal tract (GIT). This kind of infection is caused by the Helicobacter pylori bacteria, also known as Giardia. This is a parasite and causes people to have sulfur burps. The parasite can lead to the development of ulcers, abdominal cramps, diarrhea and vomiting. The only way that the bacteria are spread is through poor hygiene, oral-fecal transmission, and in untreated water. Another cause is improper eating patterns. 
There are a number of causes of sulfur burps, some of which are listed here: 1  Medical: Helicobacter Pylori or Giardia are some of the most common cause of getting sulfur burps. 2  Helicobacter Pylori is a bacteria that causes gastric ulcers, chronic gastritis, heartburn, burping and abdominal bloating. How to get rid of sulfur burps. If sulfur burps are likely to be caused due to poor eating habits, consuming certain medications or intestinal infection caused along with vomiting and diarrhea then it is important to seek medical attention.
Tweet. Burping is expelling of the air and other gases from the stomach through your mouth. Sulfur burps are those which smell of rotten eggs or sulfur. The smell comes from hydrogen sulfide (H2S), a gas which is present in sulfur proteins. 1 Giardia is a one cell parasite that causes bloating, diarrhea, and foul smelling burps. 2  Poor hygiene, unclean water sources and oral-fecal transmissions are ways these infections can enter the body. 3  Sulfur burps could be a symptom of either infection.
1 Remove as much as possible sulfur containing foods from your diet. 2  This may reduce sulfur smell of burps and gas in a day or two. 3  After that, you will still need to find the cause of belching or gas themselves. If you have sulfur burps after eating sulfur containing foods (check examples above in the article)you may visit a gastroenterologist and ask for a test for H. pylori. Help! I have had a couple cases of these but they usually are with nausea and vomitting.
Eating lots of protein.  Recurrent rotten-egg tasting burps could also be a symptom of Giardia lamblia infection. Giardia lamblia is a parasite that colonises and reprodu … ces in the small intestine of humans, but is also one of the most common parasites infecting cats and dogs. Answer by Puhlaa. Confidence votes 4.9K. Recurrent rotten-egg tasting burps associated with diarrhea could be a symptom of Giardia lamblia infection. Giardia lamblia is a parasite that colonises and reprodu
The terrible smell of sulfur burps is caused by hydrogen sulfide (H2S). The gas is known to originate from certain foods that contain sulfur proteins in them. During the process of digestion these proteins are broken down in the gastro-intestinal tract by sulfur-reducing microbes. Mentioned below are some of the different and most common sulfur burp causes. 1  Gastro-intestinal infection caused by the Helicobacter pylori bacteria or Giardia, which is a parasite, is one of the major causes of sulfur burps.
If you suffer from both sulfur burps and gas you may have a gallbladder or small intestinal problem. In this case, an endoscopy can be carried out to determine the cause. However, an endoscopy is not known to aggravate the condition. 1 Giardia is a one cell parasite that causes bloating, diarrhea, and foul smelling burps. 2  Poor hygiene, unclean water sources and oral-fecal transmissions are ways these infections can enter the body. 3  Sulfur burps could be a symptom of either infection.
Foods that cause sulfur burps. Since sulfur burp may result due to certain food it is beneficial to understand what food may cause such eggy burps. There are several edible items which are blamed to cause the condition. These are not all but some foods that may cause sulfur burps. But you should understand that not always these foods can cause such burps. It is only when you consume any of these in excessive amount or improper quality you may suffer from smelly burp.
Causes of sulfur burps. Some of the common causes of sulfur burps are listed below: 1  The most common, and perhaps the most serious, cause of sulfur burps is infection of the gastrointestinal system by Helicobacter pylori bacteria or Giardia, a parasite. 1 Another common cause of sulfur burps is the use of prescription drugs. 2  Sulfa medications often used as antibiotics is a common culprit. 3  Patients may check the prescription label and verify the ingredients. 4  If sulfur is listed as an ingredient, then you may suffer from a bout of smelly burps after consuming the medicine.
1 If you have sulfur burps but NOT sulfur gas (flatulence) the cause is probably in your stomach (H. pylori infection, gastroparesis). 2  If you suffer from both sulfur burps and gas or only sulfur gas you may have small intestinal or gallbladder disorder. If you have sulfur burps after eating sulfur containing foods (check examples above in the article)you may visit a gastroenterologist and ask for a test for H. pylori. Help! I have had a couple cases of these but they usually are with nausea and vomitting.