Germs that live in human blood and can cause disease in humans are called bloodborne pathogens. The most common and dangerous germs spread through blood in the hospital are: 1  Hepatitis B virus (HBV) and hepatitis C virus (HCV). 2  These viruses cause infections and liver damage. 3  HIV (human immunodeficiency virus).
The virus is transmitted through infected blood or body fluids with infected blood. Hepatitis C – Hepatitis C infects the liver and is caused by the Hepatitis C virus. This virus is transmitted from person-to-person through contaminated blood. Herpes – Herpes is a group of several viruses that infect humans.
The Hepatitis B virus (HBV) may be transmitted to others through blood and body fluid contact. HBV is spread when blood or body fluids from an infected person enters the body of a person who is not infected, through breaks in the skin or through the moist linings of the eyes, nose, mouth, and genitalia.
Symptoms of the illness is include fever, headache, tiredness, aches, and sometimes rash. Although WNV is most often transmitted by the bite of infected mosquitoes, the virus can also be transmitted through contact with infected animals, their blood, or other tissues.
Blood-borne viruses (BBVs) are viruses that some people carry in their blood and can be spread from one person to another. Those infected with a BBV may show little or no symptoms of serious disease, but other infected people may be severely ill.
Hepatitis B virus (HBV) is transmitted through exposure to infective blood, semen, and other body fluids. HBV can be transmitted from infected mothers to infants at the time of birth or from family member to infant in early childhood.
An infected person can transmit (spread) blood-borne viruses from one person to another by various routes and over a prolonged time period. The most prevalent BBVs are: 1  human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)- a virus which causes accuired immunodeficiency virus (AIDS), a disease affecting the body's immune system;
However, any bloodborne pathogen has the potential to be transmitted by blood transfusion. Transfusion-transmitted infections (TTIs) are infections resulting from the introduction of a pathogen into a person through
A wide variety of organisms, including bacteria, viruses, prions, and parasites can be transmitted through blood transfusions. The use of a standard donor screening questionnaire as well as laboratory tests help to reduce the risk of an infectious organism being transmitted by blood transfusion.