Usually, denoting that portion of the alveolar bone immediately about the teeth; used also to denote the functional unity of teeth and alveolar bone. /den·to·al·ve·o·lar/ (den″to-al-ve´ah-ler) pertaining to a tooth and its alveolus. Bulleidia extructa periprosthetic hip joint infection, United States by Kloesel, Benjamin; Beliveau, Margaret; Patel, Robin; Trousdale, Robert T.; Sia, Irene G. / Emerging Infectious Diseases.
The most common dentoalveolar procedure that we perform is the extraction of teeth which are either badly decayed or impacted (ie. Wisdom Teeth). You have several anesthetic options when receiving dentoalveolar surgery. Local anesthesia General anesthesia Conscious intravenous sedation Nitrous Oxide Gas (laughing gas) Oral Sedation The Doctors will discuss with you the various anesthetic options during your consultation.
Dentoalveolar Surgery. Dentoalveolar surgery is the very important aspect of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery that concentrates on routine issues such as extractions, bone contouring, surgical root canals and minor soft tissue repairs. It actually represents nearly 50% of all minor surgeries completed in our office office setting. 
Dentoalveolar surgery is the removal of impacted teeth and difficult extractions, and the treatment of diseases of the teeth, soft tissue, and the jawbone. The most common dentolalveolar procedure is the extraction of teeth which are either badly decayed or impacted. Other dentoalveolar procedures include: 
Coding for Dentoalveolar Surgery I. INTRODUCTION Recent coding changes and the dynamically changing health care delivery system demand concise and accu-rate coding to ensure fair and reasonable reimbursement from third parties. 
Dentoalveolar Surgery. Dentoalveolar surgery is the surgical treatment of disorders of the teeth and their supporting hard and soft tissues (excluding restoration of the teeth, such as dental fillings, crowns and bridges) and encompasses the following areas: Referral to a specialist in Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery is required for diagnosis and appropriate treatment. Removal of benign growths of the jaw-This involves the surgical management of non-cancerous growths of the jaws.
No. If your child has a dentoalveolar infection, he or she will need treatment. For most dentoalveolar infections, treatment involves an attempt to save your child’s tooth by the dentist. If that is not possible, the tooth may need to be removed. Most dentoalveolar infections are treated with antibiotics and cleaning out or removal of the affected tooth or teeth. However, if the infection spreads, it can be much more difficult to treat and could even require surgery and hospitalization.
Surgical removal of teeth-Some teeth, because of the extent of breakdown of the tooth, caused by tooth decay or tooth fracture, or because of problems with the surrounding bone may require referral to a specialist in Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery for removal. Referral to a specialist in Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery is required for diagnosis and appropriate treatment. Removal of benign growths of the jaw-This involves the surgical management of non-cancerous growths of the jaws.
Background. A dentoalveolar abscess is an acute lesion characterized by localization of pus in the structures that surround the teeth. Most patients are treated easily with analgesia, antibiotics, drainage, and/or referral to a dentist or oral-maxillofacial surgeon. Odontogenic infections are polymicrobial, with an average of 4-6 different causative bacteria. The dominant isolates are strictly anaerobic gram-negative rods and gram-positive cocci, in addition to facultative and microaerophilic streptococci. Anaerobic bacteria outnumber aerobes 2-3:1.