Use a bun to create waves. After washing your hair, twist it into a loose bun at the back of your head. Secure it in place with hair elastics and bobby pins. Sleep on it, and after waking up in the morning, untie your hair and shake out your newly-wavy locks. Style your hair into large waves using a curling iron. Wrap loose sections of your hair around the barrel of a large curling iron without clamping down on the hair. Hold the section in place for 10 or 15 seconds before releasing. Brush the curls out into waves when done. 1  Use a curling iron with a 1-inch to 2-inch (2.5-cm to 5-cm) barrel for best result
1. Use hair rollers to create waves. Set wet hair in the largest hair rollers you can find. Use a handheld hair dryer or stand hair dryer to completely dry your hair as it sets, carefully unroll your dry hair and separate the curls into large, voluminous waves. Style your hair into large waves using a curling iron. Wrap loose sections of your hair around the barrel of a large curling iron without clamping down on the hair. Hold the section in place for 10 or 15 seconds before releasing. Brush the curls out into waves when done. 1  Use a curling iron with a 1-inch to 2-inch (2.5-cm to 5-cm) barrel for best result
Corkscrew Curls. Corkscrew curls are a breeze to create on relaxed hair, they can be done in three main ways: fine plaits, cane rows and two plait twists. For each of these styles your hair needs to be dampened and then sealed with a natural oil before you proceed. These styles generally work best on freshly washed hair. Beach Waves. Now this is an easy style to create with your hair and the best thing about it is, it does not take up much time and it does not require any heat. The style is best created on damp hair. Hence, the first step is to wash, condition and detangle hair, then to seal with your favorite natural oil.
Method #4: Hair Curlers. You can create really defined curls without heat using hair curlers! This is probably the most popular way to curl relaxed hair and has been a method used for years. Spray your relaxed hair with a moisturizer of your choice or product that will add sheen. Get a bra strap or a headband in bra strap size. Brush your dry relaxed hair down to how it naturally falls. Place the bra strap around the crown of your head on top of the hair (the bra strap must rest above the ears). Then take each portion of your relaxed hair and wrap it around the bra strap firmly
First, wash your hair and dab your hair with a towel or white tee shirt. Damp hair is better to work with, creates faster results, and better results. Then, separate a 1-1 1/2 inch part of hair and make several large or small cornrows (depending on how tight the curls you want) around your head. Your hair should begin to curl over night and create big, beautiful, voluminous curls. You can do this on natural hair, and relaxed hair.In the morning, un-braid your hair and use a curl definer on your hair to maintain volume and create shine and more defined curls. Enjoy you're new, heat-less curls!
1 For tighter, less frizzy waves, braid your hair in 1/2-inch (1.25-cm) sections. 2  Create large, loose waves with a French braid. 3  You can use a single French-braided ponytail to create voluminous waves down the center of your hair. 4  Braid your hair, sleep on it, and let air dry as needed. Style your hair into large waves using a curling iron. Wrap loose sections of your hair around the barrel of a large curling iron without clamping down on the hair. Hold the section in place for 10 or 15 seconds before releasing. Brush the curls out into waves when done. 1  Use a curling iron with a 1-inch to 2-inch (2.5-cm to 5-cm) barrel for best results
Method #3: Bun. You can create curls without heat on relaxed hair using the bun method. With air-dried hair, secure your hair with a hair-tie into a ponytail. After doing this, take the ponytail and twist it from the base all the way to the ends. Get a bra strap or a headband in bra strap size. Brush your dry relaxed hair down to how it naturally falls. Place the bra strap around the crown of your head on top of the hair (the bra strap must rest above the ears). Then take each portion of your relaxed hair and wrap it around the bra strap firmly