When to Seek Medical Care. Call a doctor when experiencing pain or pressure in the upper face accompanied by nasal congestion or discharge, postnasal drip, fever for several days, or ongoing bad breath unrelated to dental problems. Fever can be a symptom of a sinus infection or a cold. Simple nasal congestion with a low-grade fever and a runny nose probably indicates a cold and may not call for medications or antibiotics and may be contagious. Those also experiencing facial pain, headaches, and fever for several days may have a sinus infection.
1 Ethmoid or frontal sinusitis can cause the formation of a blood clot in the sinus area around the front and top of the face. 2  Symptoms may be similar to those of eye socket infection with the addition of a dilated pupil (the pupil is larger than usual).
Sometimes, a cold may cause swelling in the sinuses, hollow spaces in your skull that are connected to each other. The swelling can prevent the flow of mucus. This can lead to a sinus infection. If you have pain around your face and eyes -- and thick yellow or green mucus for more than a week -- see your doctor.
1 Symptoms of sinusitis associated with pain when moving the eye or swelling around the eye are an emergency and should be evaluated immediately. 2  Ethmoid or frontal sinusitis can cause the formation of a blood clot in the sinus area around the front and top of the face.
The common cold is a viral infection. Colds can lead to sinusitis symptoms, but these usually clear by themselves. Antibiotics do not treat viruses, so they won't help the sinus symptoms of a cold. Cold symptoms end in seven to 14 days.
Infectious causes of face swelling. Facial swelling can be due to a variety of infections including: Bacterial or viral conjunctivitis (noticeable swelling around the eyes). Cellulitis (skin infection). Mumps. Orbital cellulitis (acute infection of the area surrounding the eye). Sinus infection or sinusitis.
It's inflammation or swelling of your sinuses. Normally they're filled with air. When they become blocked and filled with fluid, bacteria can grow there and cause infection. The result: a sinus infection. You may hear your doctor refer to it as sinusitis.