There are various types of marble available in market. Some of the popular ones are: Italian, Makrana, Simple. Each of these again have many sub-types. Price range is also huge. Marble Prices usually vary with place and demand. For Example: If your house is 500 sq feet with 350 sq feet carpet area. lets say you end up ordering 350 sq feet of Marble for complete flooring. Here’s how you will calculate the cost. Rate of a some type of Italian Marble is Rs
Italian Marble having competative price range across the world. The general Italian Marble Price having variation from 150 Rs. Per sq. feet and goes on increase as per the quality basis. Whereas Statuario Marble Price ranging from 250 Rs. per sq. feet to 25000 Rs per sq.feet as Italian products and even another quality marble which produces in India namely Indian Statuario Marble. Marble includes Italian Marble, Indian Marble and many more. Italian Marble having wide range in variety,some of Italian Marble Names or Italian Marble Types viz. Statuario Marble, Botticino Marble, Dyna Marble, Omnia marble, Perlato Marble, Onyx m
All Kishangarh Marble Types With Price Range. We all know that kishangarh is asia’s largest marble market. It also known as marble hub, marble mandi. Due to here situated many Marble Supplier, Manufacturer, Mines Owner and Marble Exporters. As per Kishangarh Marble Association or Other sources more than 9000 Marble traders are available here. The world famous R.K. Marbles is also situated in kishangarh. Here you can get best Price of Marble, Granite, slate Stone and Sandstone. due to heavy competition of marble sellers for sale the products.
The price variate in between 50 Rs. per sq. feet up to 150 Rs. per sq. feet.of Indian Statuario Marble (Indo-Italian Marble) which looks like Statuario venato marble founded mainly in Statuario Marble India and Statuario Marble Kishangarh or kishangarh marble in statuario marble price India. Marble includes Italian Marble, Indian Marble and many more. Italian Marble having wide range in variety,some of Italian Marble Names or Italian Marble Types viz. Statuario Marble, Botticino Marble, Dyna Marble, Omnia marble, Perlato Marble, Onyx m
ITALIAN MARBLE. We Deal in Italian marble, Italian marble tiles, Italian floor designs, Italian marble flooring, Italian marble images, India, Italian marble prices, Italian marble statues, Italian marble suppliers, Italian marble stones etc. 
Cost of Marble Flooring. Cost of Marble flooring is more then Cost of flooring with Vitrified Tiles. It also takes a more time to complete flooring work using Marble compared to tiles. However once you fix marbles you don’t have to worry about your floor for perhaps next 25 years. Cost of common Indian Marble ranges from Rs 90 to Rs 300. All rates are with unit of “Per Square feet”. Buying Italian Marble in block is cheaper then slabs. Above rates have assumed certain Cost of Italian Marble. Commonly, Italian Marble range from Rs 300 to Rs 2000 Per Sq.
You’ll find a wide range of marble tiles including Italian Carrara Marble and Turkish Marble. They come in a variety of finishes and sizes allowing you to find the right tile for your home. You’ll also find an assorted selection of marble mosaic tiles available in honed (matt) and polished (shiny) finishes. 
Marble is a non-foliated metamorphic rock composed of recrystallized carbonate minerals, most commonly calcite or dolomite. Marble includes Italian Marble, Indian Marble and many more. Italian Marble having wide range in variety,some of Italian Marble Names or Italian Marble Types viz. Statuario Marble, Botticino Marble, Dyna Marble, Omnia marble, Perlato Marble, Onyx marble and many more.
We are supplier, manufacturer and dealer of Italian marbles and tiles. Italian marble is really very good quality of stone. Italian marbles mainly use in flooring of house, hotels, restaurant, resorts and shopping malls. Commercial Trade Information and Terms :-. Price :- Display Price list free. This enable buyer to quickly decide whether or not the material is in their budget.