Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Food stuff normally stays in the stomach for 2-6 hours. When giving meds (I am a nurse) the generally rule of thumb for empty stomach is 1 hour before you eat or 2 hours after you eat. This Site Might Help You. RE: How long does it take to get an empty stomach after a meal? I have these supplements that say, take on an empty stomach before breakfast lunch and dinner. We&#39;ll I know my stomach is empty before breakfast. I just dont know how long after breakfast my stomach is empty.
During the process of digestion, the stomach must contract to empty itself of food and liquid. Normally, it contracts about three times a minute. This empties the stomach within 90-120 minutes after eating. If contractions are sluggish or less frequent, stomach emptying is delayed. 
How long do you have to wait after eating to have an empty stomach for taking medication to be taken on an empty stomach? If you ate for 20 minutes, wait for 3-5 hours, or if you ate for 1/2 an hour, wait for 4-6 hours. Do NOT wait two hours because there may be a risk if your digestion is in … complete. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Approximately 2 to 3 hours after a meal. I have had antibiotics that had to be taken on an empty stomach, and the pharmacist told me to take them one hour before or 2-3 hours after a meal.
Digestion time varies between individuals and between men and women. After you eat, it takes about six to eight hours for food to pass through your stomach and small intestine. Food then enters your large intestine (colon) for further digestion, absorption of water and, finally, elimination of undigested food. 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: all that it means is wait for about 2-3 hours after eating and about 1.5 hours before eating to take the medicine. for some people this makes their stomachs hurt and they have to take the medicine with a small snack. 
It usually takes about 4 to 6 hours for a full stomach to digest the food. However, this varies from person to person, and if vomitting occurs, much less time. It takes … from 12 to 24 hours for the food to completely leave the digestive/excremetory systems. 7 people found this useful. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Approximately 2 to 3 hours after a meal. I have had antibiotics that had to be taken on an empty stomach, and the pharmacist told me to take them one hour before or 2-3 hours after a meal.
492 Followers. A. Stomach-emptying time varies from person to person, but generally, two hours is a reasonable average. When you are ill, food can stagnant in the stomach for longer periods of time, or even quickly move on to the small intestines. When you are having surgery, they will want you NPO (nothing by mouth) for about 8-12 hours, just to be sure. If you select Keep me signed in on this computer, you can stay signed in to WebMD.com on this computer for up to 2 weeks or until you sign out. This means that a cookie will stay on your computer even when you exit or close your browser which may reduce your levels of privacy and security.
For some medicines, having food or liquids in your stomach can result in poorer absorption of the drug or an upset stomach. It generally takes 4 to 5 hours for the stomach to empty after a full meal and a bit less after a snack or liquid, though it varies depending on how much and what kind of food you ate. When the instructions say to take medicine on an empty stomach, how long do I have to wait after eating for my stomach to empty? Can I still drink while waiting? —W.H., Colorado Springs, Colo.
It usually takes about 4 to 6 hours for a full stomach to digest the food. However, this varies from person to person, and if vomitting occurs, much less time. It takes … from 12 to 24 hours for the food to completely leave the digestive/excremetory systems. 7 people found this useful. 