Professional certification, trade certification, or professional designation, often called simply certification or qualification, is a designation earned by a person to assure qualification to perform a job or task. 
British qualified accountants are full voting members of United Kingdom professional bodies that evaluate individual experience and test competencies for accountants. It is illegal for any individual or firm that is not a Registered Auditor to perform an audit of a UK limited company. To become a Registered Auditor, an accountant must hold a practising certificate from a recognised body, demonstrate the necessary professional ability in that area, and submit to regular inspection.
IAB qualifications provide the perfect opportunity to gain employment and help you achieve your career goals. The IAB also offers Professional Membership to support you whether you set up your own business or decide to work for a company. It’s not easy deciding on a career path with so much uncertainty in the market place. One thing is for sure: with IAB qualifications on your CV, you can offer financial expertise to countless businesses crying out for your skills.
1 IAB qualifications open new doors to exciting careers, as well as extend business accounting and payroll skills if you’re currently employed or a business owner. 2  With skills gained from IAB qualifications you can set up your own business as a professional bookkeeper or a payroll administrator for numerous industries. It’s not easy deciding on a career path with so much uncertainty in the market place. One thing is for sure: with IAB qualifications on your CV, you can offer financial expertise to countless businesses crying out for your skills.
1 Gaining an IAB qualification gives prospective employers or clients complete confidence in your expert skills, whilst exclusive access to IAB Professional membership offers on-going support throughout your career. It’s not easy deciding on a career path with so much uncertainty in the market place. One thing is for sure: with IAB qualifications on your CV, you can offer financial expertise to countless businesses crying out for your skills.
Whether you are a start-up, need a career change or want to study for your future, the IAB bookkeeping authority offers the ‘best for business’ choice and a selection of bookkeeping courses to help you train to be a bookkeeper. Few careers offer as much opportunity as bookkeeping! Always in demand, a choice of career paths, flexibility and much more. Find out more about bookkeeping and the IAB by requesting an information pack.
1 Because IAB qualifications are accredited, your professional competence will always be recognised... 2  If you’re an international student, you can study bookkeeping courses and exams across the globe. It’s not easy deciding on a career path with so much uncertainty in the market place. One thing is for sure: with IAB qualifications on your CV, you can offer financial expertise to countless businesses crying out for your skills.
IAB is the body created within the IIW structure to operate the International IIW Qualification, Certification and Authorisation Systems, which is called the “International Authorisation Board” (IAB). (more information). 
The International Association of Book-keepers (IAB) is the leading awarding and supervisory body for professional bookkeepers in the UK. Celebrating 40 years of empowering people across the globe, it’s a not-for-profit organisation which promotes the professional status of bookkeepers. Few careers offer as much opportunity as bookkeeping! Always in demand, a choice of career paths, flexibility and much more. Find out more about bookkeeping and the IAB by requesting an information pack.
The International Association of Book-keepers (IAB) offer Qualifications and Credit Framework (QCF) qualification specifically in bookkeeping and Payroll. IAB members are professionally qualified book-keepers. It is illegal for any individual or firm that is not a Registered Auditor to perform an audit of a UK limited company. To become a Registered Auditor, an accountant must hold a practising certificate from a recognised body, demonstrate the necessary professional ability in that area, and submit to regular inspection.