1 When to amend a return. 2  You should file an amended return if you need to correct your filing status, number of dependents, total income, tax deductions or tax credits. 3  The instructions for Form 1040X, Amended U.S. Individual Income Tax Return, list additional reasons to amend a return. 1 The instructions for Form 1040X, Amended U.S. Individual Income Tax Return, list additional reasons to amend a return. 2  When NOT to amend a return. 3  In some cases, you don’t need to amend your tax return. 4  For example, the IRS usually corrects math errors when processing your original return.
OVERVIEW. What to do if you filed your tax return with TurboTax, and now need to change it. TurboTax makes it easy to amend your tax return and file it again. How to amend your tax return ... I need to change my tax return, but I already filed!. So you filed your tax return with TurboTax: But wait, I need to change it!. Well, if you have already filed, you can’t get the return back. But what you can do is amend your tax return and file it again. You can do this in TurboTax. 
First, fill out an amended federal income tax return, Form 1040X. Then, get the proper form from your state and use the information from Form 1040X to help you fill it out. Like the IRS, your state uses a special form for an amended return. Many states also use the X suffix for the form number. For example, California uses Form 540X. Other states do not
1 When NOT to amend a return In some cases, you do not need to amend your tax return. 2  The IRS usually corrects math errors or requests missing forms – such as Forms W-2 or schedules – when processing an original return. 1 When to amend a return Generally, you should file an amended return if your filing status, number of dependents, total income, tax deductions or tax credits were reported incorrectly or omitted.
First off, make sure you need to amend your return. If you’ve made minor math errors, the IRS states that the service center will be able to handle that without requiring a 1040x. However if you need to change your filing status, credits, tax deductions, or income, then you do need to amend your tax return. You’ll need to fill out a 1040x Amended U.S. Individual Income Tax Return, print and sign it, and then mail it in since you can not e-file it. If you did, but your tax return was rejected by the IRS you may not be happy about the IRS rejection, but you should be happy to know, you don’t need to amend your tax return. All you need to do is fix your tax return and resend it.
When you e-file your federal and state income tax returns, you need the information from your W-2 forms for data entry, but you do not need to submit or send your W-2 forms to the government agencies unless special circumstances require it. Always keep copies of your tax documents including your form W-2s, 1099s and tax returns. If the federal, state or local taxing authorities have a question with regard to your e-filed tax return, you need to have a copy of your tax return and all tax documents that you used.
1 When to file Generally, to claim a refund, you must file Form 1040X within three years from the date you filed your original tax return or within two years from the date you paid the tax, whichever is later. 2  Processing time Normal processing time for amended returns is 8 to 12 weeks. 1 When to amend a return Generally, you should file an amended return if your filing status, number of dependents, total income, tax deductions or tax credits were reported incorrectly or omitted.
I know a 1040X has to be mailed in-it can not be efiled. I would wait until your federal return has been accepted by the IRS and see if the 1040X option is available. If by chance, your return gets rejected by the IRS, you could change it and add the 1098E. Cindy KowalskiSenior Tax Advisor 524 years experience. The Community Looking at life through tax.
1 Form to use Use Form 1040X, Amended U.S. Individual Income Tax Return, to amend a previously filed Form 1040, 1040A, 1040EZ, 1040NR or 1040NR-EZ. Make sure you check the box for the year of the return you are amending on the Form 1040X. 1 When to amend a return Generally, you should file an amended return if your filing status, number of dependents, total income, tax deductions or tax credits were reported incorrectly or omitted.
1 You should file an amended return if you need to correct your filing status, number of dependents, total income, tax deductions or tax credits. 2  The instructions for Form 1040X, Amended U.S. Individual Income Tax Return, list additional reasons to amend a return. 3  When NOT to amend a return. 1 The instructions for Form 1040X, Amended U.S. Individual Income Tax Return, list additional reasons to amend a return. 2  When NOT to amend a return. 3  In some cases, you don’t need to amend your tax return. 4  For example, the IRS usually corrects math errors when processing your original return.