A: Xanax (alprazolam) (http://www.everydayhealth.com/drugs/xanax) is a benzodiazepine that works on chemicals in the brain that become unbalanced. Xanax is indicated for anxiety. Common side effects of Xanax include drowsiness, dizziness, dry mouth, muscle weakness, and blurred speech. Xanax is in a class of drugs called benzodiazepines, and is available in several forms including tablets, a liquid, disintegrating tablets, and extended release tablets. Xanax is made by Pfizer and was approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in 1981. It's also available as a generic drug.
A: Xanax (alprazolam) is in a drug class called benzodiazepines. Xanax is used in the treatment of anxiety disorders, such as generalized anxiety disorder. Xanax is also used for the short-term relief of anxiety symptoms. Xanax is also used to treat panic disorders. Xanax is in a class of drugs called benzodiazepines, and is available in several forms including tablets, a liquid, disintegrating tablets, and extended release tablets. Xanax is made by Pfizer and was approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in 1981. It's also available as a generic drug.
Alprazolam /aelˈpraezəlaem/ ælˈpræzəlæm /or/ , aelˈpreɪzəlaem ælˈpreɪzəlæm available as the Trade /name/ xanax ˈzaenaeks, ˈzænæks among others-is a short acting anxiolytic of. The benzodiazepine class it is commonly used for the treatment, of panic disorder, and anxiety disorders such as (GENERALIZED) anxiety disorder gad or (SOCIAL). anxiety disorder sad It was the 12th most prescribed medicine in 2010. Alprazolam, like other benzodiazepines, binds to specific sites on the GABAA receptor. It possesses anxiolytic, sedative, hypnotic, skeletal muscle relaxant, anticonvulsant, and amnestic properties.
A: Xanax (alprazolam) is a medication that is in the group of medications called benzodiazepines that are used to treat anxiety and panic disorders. Antidepressants mainly work on specific chemicals in the brain: serotonin, norepinephrine and dopamine. Xanax is in a class of drugs called benzodiazepines, and is available in several forms including tablets, a liquid, disintegrating tablets, and extended release tablets. Xanax is made by Pfizer and was approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in 1981. It's also available as a generic drug.
More detail and supporting information is in the main article. 1  Xanax (alprazolam) is the single most prescribed psychiatric medication in the US. 2  Xanax is a member of the benzodiazepine family of drugs and is primarily used to treat anxiety and panic disorders. Alprazolam is an anti-anxiety medication in the benzodiazepine family, the same family that includes diazepam (Valium), clonazepam (Klonopin), lorazepam (Ativan), flurazepam (Dalmane), and others. 9 Xanax works by decreasing abnormal excitement in the brain. 11.
Xanax is the brand name for a drug called alprazolam. Xanax is a type of medication called a benzodiazepine, which is a central nervous system depressant that decreases abnormal excitement in the brain. Doctors most frequently prescribe Xanax as a tablet, but it can also come in a liquid concentration as well. Xanax can also be used to treat mental health disorders and is currently being studied in the treatment of nausea and vomiting caused by some cancer treatments. * agoraphobia (fear of open spaces). * anxiety disorders. * cancer treatments (for nausea and vomiting).
1 Xanax is a member of the benzodiazepine family of drugs and is primarily used to treat anxiety and panic disorders. 2  Xanax are dispensed in 0.25 mg, 0.5 mg, 1 mg and 2 mg strengths. 3  The drug is 10 to 20 times as potent as Valium of the same dosage. Alprazolam is an anti-anxiety medication in the benzodiazepine family, the same family that includes diazepam (Valium), clonazepam (Klonopin), lorazepam (Ativan), flurazepam (Dalmane), and others. 9 Xanax works by decreasing abnormal excitement in the brain. 11.
Uses. Alprazolam is used to treat anxiety and panic disorders. It belongs to a class of medications called benzodiazepines which act on the brain and nerves (central nervous system) to produce a calming effect. It works by enhancing the effects of a certain natural chemical in the body (GABA). How to use Xanax. Take this medication by mouth as directed by your doctor. Dosage is based on your medical condition, age, and response to treatment. Your dose may be gradually increased until the drug starts working well. Follow your doctor's instructions closely to reduce the risk of side effects
Xanax is the brand name of alprazolam, a prescription drug used to treat anxiety disorders. Xanax is prescribed for generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) , anxiety associated with depression, and panic disorder. Other uses include treatment of depression and premenstrual syndrome (PMS) . Xanax is in a class of drugs called benzodiazepines, and is available in several forms including tablets, a liquid, disintegrating tablets, and extended release tablets. Xanax is made by Pfizer and was approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in 1981. It's also available as a generic drug.