Escherichia coli (E. coli) bacteria normally live in the intestines of people and animals. Most E. coli are harmless and actually are an important part of a healthy human intestinal tract. However, some E. coli are pathogenic, meaning they can cause illness, either diarrhea or illness outside of the intestinal tract. Escherichia coli (abbreviated as E. coli) are a large and diverse group of bacteria. Although most strains of E. coli are harmless, others can make you sick. Some kinds of E. coli can cause diarrhea, while others cause urinary tract infections, respiratory illness and pneumonia, and other illnesses.
Definition. Escherichia coli (E. coli) bacteria normally live in the intestines of healthy people and animals. Most varieties of E. coli are harmless or cause relatively brief diarrhea. But a few particularly nasty strains, such as E. coli O157:H7, can cause severe abdominal cramps, bloody diarrhea and vomiting.
E. coli is a type of bacteria that normally live in the intestines of people and animals. However, some types of E. coli, particularly E. coli 0157:H7, can cause intestinal infection. Symptoms of intestinal infection include diarrhea, abdominal pain, and fever. More severe cases can lead to bloody diarrhea, dehydration, or kidney failure. People with weakened immune systems, young children, and the elderly are at increased risk for developing these complications.
Escherichia coli (/ˌɛʃɨˈrɪkiə ˈkoʊlaɪ/ ; also known as E. coli) is a Gram-negative, facultatively anaerobic, rod-shaped bacterium of the genus Escherichia that is commonly found in the lower intestine of warm-blooded organisms (endotherms). 
E. coli is short for Escherichia coli -- bacteria (germs) that cause severe cramps and diarrhea. E. coli is a leading cause of bloody diarrhea. 
There are many types of E. coli, and most of them are harmless. But some can cause bloody diarrhea. Some strains of E. coli bacteria (such as a strain called O157:H7) may also cause severe anemia or kidney failure, which can lead to death. Other strains of E. coli can cause urinary tract infections or other infections. You get an E. coli infection by coming into contact with the feces, or stool, of humans or animals
Causes of E. coli Infection. People and animals normally have some E. coli in their intestines, but some strains cause infection. The bacteria that cause infection can enter your body in a number of ways. Symptoms of intestinal infection include diarrhea, abdominal pain, and fever. More severe cases can lead to bloody diarrhea, dehydration, or kidney failure. People with weakened immune systems, young children, and the elderly are at increased risk for developing these complications.
The most common way to acquire an E. coli infection is by eating contaminated food, such as: 1  Ground beef. 2  When cattle are slaughtered and processed, E. coli bacteria in their intestines can get on the meat. 3  Ground beef combines meat from many different animals, increasing the risk of contamination. 4  Unpasteurized milk. Among the many strains of E. coli, only a few trigger diarrhea. One group of E. coli — which includes O157:H7 — produces a powerful toxin that damages the lining of the small intestine, which can cause bloody diarrhea.
Non-pathogenic strains of E. coli -- those that do not cause disease -- are normal inhabitants of the intestinal tract in humans and animals. But certain strains of E. coli can cause severe diarrhea and infect the genital and urinary tracts. The most notorious type of pathogenic E. coli is known as E. coli 0157:H7. 