Comments and insights on the name Jo: | Edit. Primarily used as a nickname for Josephine, Joanna, Joanne, Jolene, Joan, etc. Regarded as a tomboy name thanks to the characters named Jo from the book Little Women and the '80s sitcom The Facts of Life.. Also used often as a middle name. I like Jo for a middle name. I think Mary Jo is a bright, happy sounding name.
Jo is a very prominent first name for women (#250 out of 4276, Top 6%) and also a very prominent last name for both adults and children (#11476 out of 150436, Top 8%). Charted below is the baby name popularity of Jo for girls. Jo reached its peak rank of #62 in the U.S. during the years 1940-1949, but is not listed currently. (Top 1000 Birth Names Statistics, 2014).
Jo /jo/ [1 syll.] as a girls' name (also used as boys' name Jo) is pronounced joh. It is of American origin. An independent name and short form of names like Joanna, Joanne, Jody and Josephine. Also sometimes used as a prefix Jo-in blends and compound names. Literary: Jo was the nickname of the second daughter in Louisa May Alcott's Little Women. Charted below is the baby name popularity of Jo for girls. Jo reached its peak rank of #62 in the U.S. during the years 1940-1949, but is not listed currently. (Top 1000 Birth Names Statistics, 2014).
Girls Names Mashed With Jo. My father in law's name is Kelly Joe. I don't like the name Kelly at all, but I think a girl's name mixed with Jo could be cute, however I'm having a block. I can't for the life of me come up with name that works well with Jo. (Example: Mary-Jo) Please Help!
There are 604 Jo-names for baby girls. Jo-names are rather popular as baby girl names. Their usage peaked in 1934 with 4.704% of baby girls being given Jo-names. Within the top 1000 baby names then, there were 20 Jo-names. The names have slipped in popularity since then, and they are of moderate use in recent times. In 2012, their total usage was only 0.870% with 17 Jo-names listed among the top 1000
A short form of the various female names containing the element Jo, it is also popularly used as an element in combination names such as Mary Jo and Jo Ellen. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. Regarded as a tomboy name thanks to the characters named Jo from the book Little Women and the '80s sitcom The Facts of Life.. Also used often as a middle name. I like Jo for a middle name. I think Mary Jo is a bright, happy sounding name.
The name Jo is of Hebrew origin, and it means Nickname for names starting with JO . It's a name commonly given to both boys and girls. According to the 1940 U.S. Social Security Administration data, the name Jo ranks #48 in popularity as a baby girl's name in Wyoming. Imagine that, 11 babies in Wyoming have the same name as you in 1940. Across the entire United States a total of 3,450 babies also bear the same first name during the same year
The name Jo is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Jo is: Abbreviation of names like Joanna and Josephine. Also used as a prefix in compound names like Jobeth and Jolisa. American Meaning: The name Jo is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Jo is: Abbreviation of names like Joanna and Josephine. Also used as a prefix in compound names like Jobeth and Jolisa. French Meaning: The name Jo is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Jo is: May Jehovah add. Addition (to the family). Also can be a diminutive of Joanne: God is gracious. French form of Joanna (from the Latin, Johanna) and the feminine form of John.