Major trauma is any injury that has the potential to cause prolonged disability or death. There are many causes of major trauma, blunt and penetrating, including falls, motor vehicle collisions, and gunshot wounds. Depending on the severity of injury, quick management and transport to an appropriate medical facility (called a trauma center) may be necessary to prevent loss of life or limb. Penetrating trauma is caused when a foreign body such as a bullet or a knife enters the body tissue, creating an open wound. In the United States, most deaths caused by penetrating trauma occur in urban areas and 80% of these deaths are caused by firearms.
Traumatology (from Greek trauma, meaning injury or wound) has two meanings, following from two definitions of trauma. In medicine, it refers to the study of wounds and injuries caused by accidents or violence to a person, and the surgical therapy and repair of the damage. Traumatology is a branch of medicine. It is often considered a subset of surgery and in countries without the specialty of trauma surgery it is most often a sub-specialty to orthopedic surgery. Points of interest related to trauma and orthopedics on Wikipedia: Outline – Index – History – Portal – Category:Traumatology, Category:Orthopedics – Stubs.
Trauma is an emotional response to a terrible event like an accident, rape or natural disaster. Immediately after the event, shock and denial are typical. Longer term reactions include unpredictable emotions, flashbacks, strained relationships and even physical symptoms like headaches or nausea. 
2. in some psychiatric theories, the psychic shock produced in an infant by the experience of being born. psychic trauma a psychologically upsetting experience that produces an emotional or mental disorder or otherwise has lasting negative effects on a person's thoughts, feelings, or behavior. 2. the psychic shock produced in an infant by the experience of being born. psychic trauma a psychologically upsetting experience that produces a
Traumatology is the branch of surgery that deals with injured patients, usually on an emergency basis. Patients who have suffered significant physical trauma, as from a car accident, may be cared for in a traumatology unit. Trauma and Pain can be defined in two ways: body wound or shock produced by sudden physical injury, as from violence or accident and in psychiatry, trauma is an experience that produces psychological injury or pain. Major trauma is injury that can potentially lead to serious outcomes
Subsets of blunt trauma, are the number one and two causes of traumatic death. For statistical purposes, injuries are classified as either intentional such as suicide, or unintentional, such as a motor vehicle collision. Intentional injury is a common cause of traumas. Penetrating trauma is caused when a foreign body such as a bullet or a knife enters the body tissue, creating an open wound. In the United States, most deaths caused by penetrating trauma occur in urban areas and 80% of these deaths are caused by firearms.
2. psychological or emotional damage.traumat´ic. birth trauma. 1. an injury to the infant during the process of being born. 2. the psychic shock produced in an infant by the experience of being born. psychic trauma a psychologically upsetting experience that produces a mental disorder or otherwise has lasting negative effects on a person's thoughts, feelings, or behavior.
In physical medicine, trauma (injury) is damage to a biological organism caused by physical harm from an external source. The term is sometimes used to refer to trauma centers and other medical units that deal with trauma. Major trauma is injury that can potentially lead to serious outcomes. Trauma and Pain can be defined in two ways: body wound or shock produced by sudden physical injury, as from violence or accident and in psychiatry, trauma is an experience that produces psychological injury or pain.