electrical resistance-a material's opposition to the flow of electric current; measured in ohms. electric resistance, impedance, ohmic resistance, resistivity, resistance. electrical phenomenon-a physical phenomenon involving electricity. ohmage-the ohmic resistance of a conductor. 
The electrical resistance of a circuit component or device is defined as the ratio of the voltage applied to the electric current whichflows through it: Whether or not a material obeys Ohm's law, its resistance can be described in terms of its bulk resistivity. The electrical resistance of a wire would be expected to be greater for a longer wire, less for a wire of larger cross sectional area, and would be expected to depend upon the material out of which the wire is made.
ρ (Greek: rho) is the electrical resistivity (also called specific electrical resistance) of the material, measured in ohm · meter. Resistivity is a measure of the material's ability to oppose the flow of electric current. Electrical resistance is a measure of the degree to which an object opposes the passage of an
Thanks George. Electrical resistance exacts a voltage drop as the price for allowing electrical current to flow through the resistance. The use of the term resistance implies that the current flow will be in phase with the voltage across the resistor and that the current flow will be proportional to the voltage drop. 
The electrical resistance of an electrical conductor is a measure of the difficulty to pass an electric current through that conductor. An object of uniform cross section has a resistance proportional to its resistivity and length and inversely proportional to its cross-sectional area. All materials show some resistance, except for superconductors, which have a resistance of zero.
The inverse quantity is electrical conductance, the ease with which an electric current passes. Electrical resistance shares some conceptual parallels with the notion of mechanical friction. The SI unit of electrical resistance is the ohm (ω), while electrical conductance is measured in siemens (S). An object of uniform cross section has a resistance proportional to its resistivity and length and inversely proportional to its cross-sectional area. All materials show some resistance, except for superconductors, which have a resistance of zero.
Resistivity Calculation. The electrical resistance of a wire would be expected to be greater for a longer wire, less for a wire of larger cross sectional area, and would be expected to depend upon the material out of which the wire is made (resistivity). The electrical resistance of a wire would be expected to be greater for a longer wire, less for a wire of larger cross sectional area, and would be expected to depend upon the material out of which the wire is made.
Resistance is the opposition that a substance offers to the flow of electric current. It is represented by the uppercase letter R. The standard unit of resistance is the ohm, sometimes written out as a word, and sometimes symbolized by the uppercase Greek letter omega: In an AC circuit, the resistance and reactance combine vectorially to yield impedance. Resistance contrasts with conductance, which is a measure of the ease with which electrical current flows through a substance.
Resistors (and other elements with resistance) oppose the flow of electric current; therefore, electrical energy is required to push current through the resistance. This electrical energy is dissipated, heating the resistor in the process. An object of uniform cross section has a resistance proportional to its resistivity and length and inversely proportional to its cross-sectional area. All materials show some resistance, except for superconductors, which have a resistance of zero.
Every material has an electrical resistance and it is the reason that the conductor give out heat when the current passes through it. Resistance is a measure of how much an object opposes the passage of electrons. The unit of electrical resistance is the ohm and it is represented by ω. Every material has Resistance. Copper has a low resistance and wood has a high resistance. For example, a metre of copper has a resistance of only 1 Ohm but a metre of wood has a resistance of 10000000 ohm. We need resistance to reduce the flow of electrons through a circuit, so we can build resistors to behave as Electrical resistance.