1. Glycogen is made up of only one molecule while starch is made up of two. 2. While both are polymers of glucose, glycogen is produced by animals and is known as animal starch while starch is produced by plants. Glucose or sugar can be acquired from starch. We get starch from both plants and animals. The organs of our bodies like the liver, stomach, and the muscles are naturally able to produce the animal starch glycogen but we get most of our sugar from the starch which is produced by plants such as potatoes, wheat, and rice.
The main structural difference comes from the difference in the sequence of bonds in glycogen and cellulose and starch where the three of them composed mainly of glucose and its derivatives Starch, glycogen and cellulose are all polymers of glucose. Starch and glycogen are made from alpha-glucose. This is an isomer of glucose in which the hydroxyl (-OH) group attached to carbon number 1 is below the plane of the ring. Starch is itself composed of two types of polymer:amylose and amylopectin.
Glycogen is a molecule made by the liver, muscles, brain, uterus (of pregnant women), and stomach which is the secondary energy storage in animal cells. It is often referred to as animal starch and plays an important part in the glucose cycle. It helps cells store glucose ensuring them of a steady supply of energy. Glucose or sugar can be acquired from starch. We get starch from both plants and animals. The organs of our bodies like the liver, stomach, and the muscles are naturally able to produce the animal starch glycogen but we get most of our sugar from the starch which is produced by plants such as potatoes, wheat, and rice.
Polysaccharides, such as starch and glycogen, are complex chains of carbohydrates composed of monosaccharide units, such as glucose. Plants and animals store excess energy for later use or as structural support. Animals create starch ito store unused energy for later, while animals store glycogen for the same purpose. 
Glycogen. Glycogen, also known as animal starch, is a source of energy that can be found in animals only. Glycogen consists of a single molecule and its structure is branched purely. The animal liver and muscles are responsible in the creation of glycogens. Starch, the same with glycogen, is another source of energy that can be found in plants only. Starch can usually be found in staple foods like rice, barley, oats and potatoes. Difference between Glycogen and Starch. Glycogen and starch are a good source of energy aside from the energy that the human body produces. Glycogen can be found solely from animals and is created by the liver and the muscles and can sometimes be made in small amount by the brains and stomach
Starch is a carbohydrate produced by all green plants that has a large number of glucose units used to store energy. Plants such as potatoes, wheat, corn, rice, and cassava, are all rich with this type of carbohydrate which is necessary for man. Starch contains 20-25% amylase and 75-80% amylopectin molecules. Glucose or sugar can be acquired from starch. We get starch from both plants and animals. The organs of our bodies like the liver, stomach, and the muscles are naturally able to produce the animal starch glycogen but we get most of our sugar from the starch which is produced by plants such as potatoes, wheat, and rice.
Glycogen and Starch are two main sources of glucose that gives human body the energy needed in order to perform day to day tasks. These two sources of glucose are then converted into carbohydrates by the body and distributed to every single cell for later use. Starch, the same with glycogen, is another source of energy that can be found in plants only. Starch can usually be found in staple foods like rice, barley, oats and potatoes. Difference between Glycogen and Starch. Glycogen and starch are a good source of energy aside from the energy that the human body produces. Glycogen can be found solely from animals and is created by the liver and the muscles and can sometimes be made in small amount by the brains and stomachs
Summary. 1. Glycogen is made up of only one molecule while starch is made up of two. 2. While both are polymers of glucose, glycogen is produced by animals and is known as animal starch while starch is produced by plants. 3. Glycogen has a branched structure while starch has both chain and branched components. Glucose or sugar can be acquired from starch. We get starch from both plants and animals. The organs of our bodies like the liver, stomach, and the muscles are naturally able to produce the animal starch glycogen but we get most of our sugar from the starch which is produced by plants such as potatoes, wheat, and rice.