A connective tissue disease is any disease that affects the parts of the body that connect the structures of the body together. Connective tissues are made up of two proteins: collagen and elastin. Collagen is a protein found in the tendons, ligaments, skin, cornea, cartilage, bone, and blood vessels. Elastin is a stretchy protein that resembles a rubber band and is the major component of ligaments and skin. When a patient has a connective tissue disease, the collagen and elastin are inflamed.
Connective tissue (blue) is seen supporting the epithelium (purple). Connective tissue (CT) is one of the four types of biological tissue that support, connect, or separate different types of tissues and organs in the body. The other three types are epithelial, muscle, and nervous tissue. Connective tissue is found in between other tissues everywhere in the body, including the nervous system. In the central nervous system the outer membranes, the meninges, that cover the brain and spinal cord are composed of connective tissue.
Bone is a connective tissue that is characterized by a mineralized extracellular matrix. The matrix is secreted by cells called osteocytes. It consists mostly of mineralized collagen fibres arranged in lamellae. What little ground substance is present is also mineralized. A really diverse group of tissues. Connective tissue is the most diverse of the four tissue types with a wide variety of functions. It ranges in consistency from the gel-like softness of areolar connective tissue to the hardness of bone. Blood is also a connective tissue.
The noun CONNECTIVE TISSUE has 1 sense: 1. tissue of mesodermal origin consisting of e.g. collagen fibroblasts and fatty cells; supports organs and fills spaces between them and forms tendons and ligaments. Familiarity information: CONNECTIVE TISSUE used as a noun is very rare. scar tissue (the connective tissue that forms a scar; consists of fibroblasts in new scars and collagen fibers in old scars). facia; fascia (a sheet or band of fibrous connective tissue separating or binding together muscles and organs etc).
Marfan syndrome is a genetic disorder that affects the body’s connective tissue. Connective tissue holds all the body’s cells, organs and tissue together. It also plays an important role in helping the body grow and develop properly. Connective tissue is made up of proteins.
All connective tissue apart from blood and lymph consists of three main components: fibers (elastic and collagenous fibers), ground substance and cells. (Not all authorities include blood or lymph as connective tissue.) Blood and lymph lack the fiber component. All are immersed in the body water. The other three types are epithelial, muscle, and nervous tissue. Connective tissue is found in between other tissues everywhere in the body, including the nervous system. In the central nervous system the outer membranes, the meninges, that cover the brain and spinal cord are composed of
Interestingly enough, blood is considered to be a type of connective tissue. Even though it has a different function in comparison to other connective tissues it does have an extracellular matrix. The matrix consists of the plasma, while red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets are suspended in the plasma. Lymph. Lymph is another type of fluid connective tissue. Cartilage is a form of fibrous connective tissue that is composed of closely packed collagenous fibers in a rubbery gelatinous substance called chondrin. The skeletons of sharks and human embryos are composed of cartilage.
Cartilage is the third type of connective tissue. Many of us are familiar with this flexible tissue that makes up our nose and ears. Cartilage is strong due to the collagen fibers within its matrix, and it is resilient due to a gel matrix. Cartilage is also found in the body as a cushion within the skeletal system. 
Connective tissue is the material between the cells of the body that gives tissues form and strength. This “cellular glue” is also involved in delivering nutrients to the tissue, and in the special functioning of certain tissues. 