Kai is a Dutch, Finnish, Frisian, German, Scandinavian, and Welsh name of Latin origin. It is derived from the element 'gaudere' which means to rejoice. Caius (Latin) and Gaius (Latin) are old forms of Kai. The name is of multiple origins; its oldest derivation is as a Welsh form of the Roman Caius.t is derived from the element 'katha' meaning hen, chicken. Kai is an English and Hawaiian name of Hawaiian origin. Meaning: sea. The popularity of the name in the late 20th century is probably attributed to this derivation.
The name Kai /ˈkaɪ/ has various origins and meanings in different cultures: 1  In Ancient Greek, Kai (και) is a conjunction meaning and. 2  In Basque, Kai is a common word meaning pier of a harbour and a variant of the first name Kaio (from the old Latin name Caius).3  In Burmese, Kai means strong or unbreakable.
Kai /kai/ [1 syll.] as a boys' name (also used less commonly as girls' name Kai) is pronounced kye. It is of Welsh, Scandinavian and Greek origin, and the meaning of Kai is  keeper of the keys; earth . Variant of Kay. Also possibly (South African)  beautiful . Kai is also a Hawaiian name meaning the sea .hown below is the baby name popularity of Kai for boys. Kai was first listed in 1980-1989 and reached its peak rank of #177 in the U.S. in 2014. (Top 1000 Birth Names Statistics, 2014). Kay is the only other popular alternative form of Kai (#177 the previous year) .
What does Kai mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Kai is of German origin. The meaning of Kai is keeper of the keys. It is also of Hawaiian origin, where its meaning is sea and Danish origin, where its meaning is pure, chaste.
Kai is a rare first name for males but a very popular last name for both adults and children (#24701 out of 150436, Top 16%). (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the baby name popularity of Kai for boys. Kai was first listed in 1980-1989 and reached its peak rank of #177 in the U.S. in 2014. (Top 1000 Birth Names Statistics, 2014). Kay is the only other popular alternative form of Kai (#177 the previous year) .
My son's name is also Kai, this is what I know of the meaning... The boy's and girl's name Kai kai is pronounced kye. It is of Welsh, Scandinavian and Greek origin, and its meaning is ''keeper of the keys; earth''. It is also Hawaiin meaning ''sea''. came across Kai with a W. African meaning lovable and I liked the fact that it started with the letter K' like my name. I have since found out that in Thai it means chicken, In Senegal it means friend and in Hawaii it refers to the sea.
1 Kai can also be used to transliterate the Chinese character used in some names meaning start (啟) in the Cantonese pronunciation. 2  In Cornish, Kai means dog, and so dogs are often given this name. 3  In Estonian, Kai is a female name meaning pier. 4  In Finnish, Kai is a common male name, Finnish form of Kaj. In Basque, Kai is a common word meaning pier of a harbour and a variant of the first name Kaio (from the old Latin name Caius).
1 In Ancient Greek, Kai (και) is a conjunction meaning and. 2  In Basque, Kai is a common word meaning pier of a harbour and a variant of the first name Kaio (from the old Latin name Caius). 3  In Burmese, Kai means strong or unbreakable.
I came across Kai with a W. African meaning lovable and I liked the fact that it started with the letter K' like my name. I have since found out that in Thai it means chicken, In Senegal it means friend and in Hawaii it refers to the sea.
More About African Name: Kai. Kai means lovable. Kai is a Hawai'ian unisex name meaning ocean. It can also be a nickname for the feminine Kaja in Swedish, or from the masculine Gaius in German. Sea. Kai means also shell. It can also mean earth, seashell,king/queen and sea. Kaiyo-an abridged version of the name, means forgiveness. Kai Name also appears in following Origin(s): Hawaiian, English, Welsh, Finnish, Scottish, German, Scandinavian, Greek, Japanese, Maori, Chinese.