Aug. 3, 2009 - The FDA has approved a Livalo, a new cholesterol-lowering statin drug. Known by the generic name of pitavastatin, Livalo has been used in Japan since 2003. It's also sold in Korea and Thailand. In a study presented at a recent scientific meeting, Danish researchers reported that a 4 milligram dose of Livalo was superior to a 40 milligram dose of Pravachol. The FDA approval is based on five clinical studies showing that Livalo is as safe and as effective as three of the statins on the U.S. market.
Up to one third of first heart attacks will be fatal. Prevention of first heart attack is known as primary prevention.. The Pravachol Primary Prevention Study, evaluated the use of Pravachol in 6,595 subjects over a five-year period, demonstrated that Pravachol reduced the risk of first heart attack by 31%. Death from cardiovascular disease was reduced by 32%, and there was no increase in death from non-cardiovascular causes. In addition, the study showed that Pravachol reduced the need for coronary procedures such as balloon angioplasty and bypass surgery by 37%. Clinical Results. The new Pravachol indication is based on the Pravachol Primary Prevention Study (also known as the West of Scotland study), a landmark clinical trial demonstrating a significant reduction in the risk of a first heart attack in subjects with elevated cholesterol, but no history of heart disease.
Pravastatin. Pravastatin (trade name Pravachol) is a statin drug developed in Japan by scientists at pharmaceutical company Sankyo in 1979. Pravastatin is produced by chemical modification of lovastatin in a two-step fermentation reaction performed by the bacterium Nocardia autotrophica. Pravastatin is available in 10, 20, 40, and 80 mg tablets and is taken orally. Typical starting doses are between 20-40 mgs. Since the patent expired in 2006, several generic drug makers have received FDA approval to produce p
A: Pravachol (pravastatin) is a medication that is used to treat high cholesterol levels. It is in the class of medications called statins, which work by blocking an enzyme in the body that is responsible for the production of cholesterol. A: Pravastatin is a cholesterol-lowering medication in the class of drugs called statins.. Statins block the production of cholesterol in the body. Pravastatin reduces low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol and total cholesterol in the blood, which can help prevent heart disease and hardening of the arteries.
Bristol-Myers Squibb pursuing FDA approval of pravastatin as an OTC cholesterol-lowering therapy. Michael O'Riordan. Princeton, NJ-Bristol-Myers Squibb announced that it would be seeking Food and Drug Administration approval to allow pravastatin (Pravachol ®) 20 mg to be used without a prescription. He said the company is pursuing a program to provide the FDA with information needed to consider pravastatin an appropriate OTC therapy. If the pravastatin application is approved by the FDA, Bayer AG will handle OTC sales and marketing of the drug in the US.
Pravastatin was first launched by Sankyo in Japan. In 1991, following FDA approval, pravastatin was introduced to the US market by Bristol-Myers Squibb who had acquired the rights to sell it outside of Japan. Myopathic patients, who cannot tolerate other stains, may be administered pravastatin. Pravastatin is available in 10, 20, 40, and 80 mg tablets and is taken orally. Typical starting doses are between 20-40 mgs. Since the patent expired in 2006, several generic drug makers have received FDA approval to produce
On July 6, the FDA approved safety labeling revisions for pravastatin sodium (Pravachol tablets, made by Bristol-Myers Squibb Co.) to advise of a contraindication and warning associated with its use. On July 29, the FDA approved safety labeling revisions for etonogestrel plus ethinyl estradiol vaginal ring (NuvaRing, made by Organon, Inc.) to advise of a new contraindication and warning associated with its use.
The Food and Drug Administration today approved the first generic version of Bristol-Myers Squibb's Pravachol (Pravastatin Sodium Tablets), an important step in the agency's effort to increase the availability of lower-cost generic medications. The Bristol-Myers Squibb's patent for the drug expired on April 20. Pravastatin Sodium Tablets (10mg, 20mg and 40mg) are manufactured by TEVA Pharmaceuticals in Kfar Sava, Israel.