A: There are a lot of ways to support Guide Dogs for the Blind. You can volunteer on a GDB campus, help raise puppies, become a breeding stock custodian, provide a home to a retired dog, donate funds and services, or fundraise in your community.
So it may surprise you to know that not only are many dogs short-sighted, there are many breeds where short-sightedness is very common. Perhaps your dog is short-sighted...
Laser eye surgery can generally be effective for people with a prescription of up to -10D (see diagnosing short-sightedness for more information about this). If your short-sightedness is more severe, lens implants may be more appropriate.
Getting your eyes tested. If you think you or your child may be short-sighted, you should book an eye test at a local opticians. Find an opticians near you. You should have a routine eye test at least every two years, but you can have a test at any point if you have any concerns about your vision.
Not all dogs are near sighted, just like you and I, we are born with eye defects that sometimes affect our eyes. Greyhounds and Saluki's are known for their far-sightedness, since they hunt using their eyes and not their noses. However, Dalmatians are known for being born blind and is one of their breed defects.
Toys that hide treats and toys that make noise when they are played with both work well. Indoor tips. A carpeted runner or large area rug can be a great play area for a blind dog. The dog will learn quickly where the edge of the runner is and the traction is good.
1 The best treat is a tiny piece of chicken for a small dog. 2  Blind dogs can be trained for some actions far easier than sighted dogs, because they are not distracted. 3  Easy words and easy training are even easier for a blind dog! 4  Condition something negative with a sharp sound.
1 Condition “Good!” (Good boy, good girl, good puppy, good Fido) with either a soft pet or a small treat. 2  The best treat is a tiny piece of chicken for a small dog. 3  Blind dogs can be trained for some actions far easier than sighted dogs, because they are not distracted.
K9 Magazine is your digital destination helping you have a happier, healthier dog. Here you'll find advice on everything from dog training to dog diet advice as well as interviews with well known dog lovers and insightful features on the broadest range of canine lifestyle topics.