Abstract. Perineural involvement is a well-recognized clinicopathologic entity found in head and neck (H&N) cancers, including mucosal epithelial carcinomas and salivary gland malignancies. Perineural disease remains a diagnostic, prognostic and therapeutic challenge for the multidisciplinary H&N oncology team
CT scanning and MRI play complimentary roles in assessment of perineural tumor spread. CT scans are superior to MRI for evaluating bony changes, which is important because a substantial portion of the trigeminal and facial nerves are surrounded by, or contained within, bony structures. This spread along the cisternal portion is true perineural tumor spread, whereas that within the pterygopalatine fossa is also perineural tumor spread but could be a pathway of least resistance in a bony canal. Perineural spread of tumor along the fifth and seventh cranial nerves (CNs).
Tarlov cysts (hereafter referred to as TCs) are also known as perineural/perineurial, or sacral nerve root cysts. They are dilations of the nerve root sheaths and are abnormal sacs filled with cerebrospinal fluid (hereafter referred to as CSF) that can cause a progressively painful radiculopathy (nerve pain). Perineural cysts can form in any section of the spine; a significant percentage (11%) of patients have cysts at more than one location of the spine.. Some patients have cysts at all sections of the spine, including cervical, thoracic, lumbar, and sacral.
Introduction. Perineural tumor growth is a form of direct spread of cancer, which is considered to be associated with a poorer prognosis and increased risk for locoregional recurrence. The terms perineural invasion (PNI), neurotropism and perineural spread (PNS) are used to describe perineural tumor growth. Perineural involvement is a well-recognized clinicopathologic entity found in head and neck (H&N) cancers, including mucosal epithelial carcinomas and salivary gland malignancies. Perineural disease remains a diagnostic, prognostic and therapeutic challenge for the multidisciplinary H&N oncology team
Overview. Perineural cysts, which are also known as Tarlov cysts, are fluid-filled sacs that form on nerves at the base of the spine. A person with such cysts would likely never know it. They almost never cause symptoms. When they do cause symptoms, however, the most common is pain in the lower back, buttocks, and legs. A cyst is a sac that can form anywhere in the body and is filled with air or some type of fluid. Most of these are completely benign and noncancerous. Perineural cysts are those that form in the sacrum, or the base of the spine.
A final nuance in the evaluation for perineural spread on is the presence of a venous plexus along the course of the facial nerve, specifically at the anterior genu, tympanic, and mastoid segments. This is important as it can often be mistaken for neoplasm or perineural invasion. This spread along the cisternal portion is true perineural tumor spread, whereas that within the pterygopalatine fossa is also perineural tumor spread but could be a pathway of least resistance in a bony canal. Perineural spread of tumor along the fifth and seventh cranial nerves (CNs).
Perineural spread of a tumor, or spread of tumor along a nerve, is one of the more insidious forms of tumor growth. This form of spread is more commonly found in malignant rather than benign lesions, and its presence is considered a marker for poor prognosis and decreased survival rates. This spread along the cisternal portion is true perineural tumor spread, whereas that within the pterygopalatine fossa is also perineural tumor spread but could be a pathway of least resistance in a bony canal. Perineural spread of tumor along the fifth and seventh cranial nerves (CNs).