Coursework and training to become an EMT-basic or first responder can generally be completed in as little as three weeks on an accelerated basis. For part-time students, these programs may take around 8-11 weeks to complete. To become an EMT-intermediate 1985 or 1999, students generally must complete 30-350 hours of training. This training requirement varies according to the procedures the state allows these EMTs to perform.
How long does it take to be a paramedic depends on the area of study and the skill one chooses. Clinical instructions are in-hospital rotations where students get them familiar with the different trauma cases and treatment options. Some students preferentially choose part time paramedic classes. It means that instead of the regular classes in the week, they only take classes on the weekend. While it may sound more convenient for the student, it may be one of the reasons the course time may extend to two years or longer.
Paramedics have a rewarding, coveted job that has a 33% job growth rate predicted by 2020. However, to be a paramedic, you have to put in long hours during training, be quick on your feet, and help patients as quickly as possible while staying calm. Most community colleges offer EMT-Basic classes. They cost $500-$900 and last from 3 to 6 months, or a semester. In some communities, you may have to ride along as a third person for a few months before you will be put into a class.
You must complete at least the first level, EMT-Basic, and the EMT-Paramedic level to become a paramedic. With field training hours and a semester of courses, it can take you up to one year to complete an EMT-Basic program. You can complete the second level, EMT-Intermediate, which takes an additional 350 hours of education and training, but it is not a necessary requirement to become a paramedic. EMT-Paramedic training is typically done through an associate's degree program at a technical or community college. You might have what it takes to be a paramedic. Continuing reading to find out about this career and how long it takes to complete paramedic training. Schools offering Fire & Emergency Services degrees can also be found in these popular choices.
An EMT-B program can be completed in as few as three weeks or last several months, depending on the course schedules. Students need a valid CPR certification before they are trained in EMT fundamental life-saving skills. EMT-B certification is necessary to become a paramedic. In order to be eligible for entry into any paramedic program, students must be certified as an EMT-B. Some institutions may require students to have six months to 1-year experience working as a EMT-B. Students are required to take courses in: 1  Anatomy and physiology. 2  Patient assessment. 3  Airway management
In Kansas, you first have to take an EMT course which is roughly 6 months long depending on where you take the course. Then you have to take A&P, English Comp, Sociology, Algebra, & Interpersonal Communication as pre-requisites for Paramedic. EMT is 110 hours which can be done in 3 weeks or dragged out for several months by just going one night per week to class. The Paramedic is 600 - 1200 hours in length depending on the state and averages about 6 - 9 months of training.
Becoming an emergency medical technician (EMT) or paramedic can take anywhere from one to three years, depending on a student’s choice of career and educational path. EMT training focuses on life support techniques in first-response situations, including CPR, tourniquet application, and treatment of wounds. EMT basic training (EMT-B) takes anywhere from six months to two years to complete, depending on the institution. These programs are offered at technical institutes and community colleges and typically include 120 to 150 hours of coursework.
Get your EMT-B certification. Most community colleges offer EMT-Basic classes. They cost $500-$900 and last from 3 to 6 months, or a semester. In some communities, you may have to ride along as a third person for a few months before you will be put into a class. Sometimes you pay for the class and are reimbursed