Mometasone furoate is used in the treatment of inflammatory skin disorders (such as eczema and psoriasis), allergic rhinitis (such as hay fever), asthma for patients unresponsive to less potent corticosteroids, and penile phimosis. Mometasone is marketed under the brand names Elocom (and its derivatives) and Hhsone as a cream or ointment for skin conditions, Nasonex as a nasal spray for upper respiratory conditions and Asmanex Twisthaler as a dry powder inhaler (DPI) for lower respiratory conditions.
Mometasone furoate ointment is part of a group of medications known as glucocorticoids, which are a type of corticosteroid (or steroid for short). Although glucocorticoids have numerous effects in the body, they are used mostly for their anti-inflammatory or immune-suppressing properties. Mometasone furoate is approved to treat any skin condition that is responsive to corticosteroids. This medicine comes in three forms, including a cream, an ointment, and a lotion. The ointment is greasier, while the lotion and cream are easier and less messy to apply.
Mometasone is a topical (for the skin) steroid. It reduces the actions of chemicals in the body that cause inflammation, redness, and swelling. Mometasone topical is used to treat the inflammation and itching caused by a number of skin conditions such as allergic reactions, eczema, and psoriasis. Mometasone topical may also be used for other purposes not listed in this medication guide.
Uses. This medication is used to treat skin conditions such as eczema, psoriasis, allergies, and rash. Mometasone decreases swelling (inflammation), itching, and redness. Mometasone is a medium-strength corticosteroid. This medication is available in several forms including cream, ointment, and lotion (solution).
BRAND NAME: Nasonex. DRUG CLASS AND MECHANISM: Mometasone furoate is a synthetic (man-made) steroid hormone in the glucocorticoid family of steroid hormones that is used for the treatment of nasal allergy. The naturally occurring glucocorticoid hormone is cortisol or hydrocortisone which is produced in the adrenal glands. The FDA approved mometasone in October 1997. PRESCRIBED FOR: Mometasone furoate is used in individuals 2 years of age or older for control of the symptoms of allergic rhinitis, an inflammation of the nose in which the inner lining of the nose swells and releases fluid (mucus).
Each gram of ELOCON Cream, 0.1% contains 1 mg mometasone furoate in a white to off-white cream base of aluminum starch octenylsuccinate (Gamma Irradiated), hexylene glycol, hydrogenated soybean lecithin, phosphoric acid, purified water, titanium dioxide, white soft paraffin, and white wax. DRUG DESCRIPTION. ELOCON (mometasone furoate) Cream, 0.1% contains mometasone furoate for topical use. Mometasone furoate is a synthetic corticosteroid with anti-inflammatory activity.
1 Mometasone is used to treat inflammation in the lung and nasal passages in people with conditions such as asthma, allergic rhinitis (inflammation of the nose) and nasal polyps (growths). 2  It is also used to treat inflammatory skin conditions such as dermatitis and psoriasis. It should not be used in: 1  People who are allergic or sensitive to mometasone or any of the ingredients in the medicine (e.g. lactose in the inhaler). 2  Children under 12 years (inhaler). 3  Children under 6 years (nasal spray for rhinitis).
Mometasone furoate cream is prescribed to treat a variety of skin problems, such as dermatitis, poison ivy, and eczema. Mometasone furoate cream (Elocon ®) is a prescription skin medication used to treat inflammation and itching due to a wide variety of conditions. Some of these conditions include but are not limited to: Mometasone furoate cream is approved for use in children as young as two years old. However, children may be more likely to absorb more of the drug through the skin into the rest of the body, increasing the risk for side effects.
Mometasone furoate ointment (Elocon ®) is a prescription skin medication used to treat inflammation and itching due to a wide variety of conditions. Mometasone furoate is approved to treat any skin condition that is responsive to corticosteroids. This medicine comes in three forms, including a cream, an ointment, and a lotion. The ointment is greasier, while the lotion and cream are easier and less messy to apply.
Mometasone Furoate is used to treat swelling, inflammation, and itching of skin conditions such as eczema, dermatitis, rashes, insect bites, poison ivy, allergies and other irritations. 