• Table Height: These range in height from 18 to 23 inches and can accommodate a surface height of 28 to 30 inches. They’re a great alternative to your more traditional dining table chairs. • Counter Height: These vary in height from 24 to 26 inches and will fit a surface height of 36 to 39 inches. They’re smaller than a typical bar or restaurant stool. • Bar Height: These go from 28 to 30 inches in height and are perfect for a bar with a surface height of 40 to 42 inches. You can find stools in this height at many restaurants. • Extra Tall: Get a spectator’s view with a height of 33 to 36 inches. 
You don't want your guests to feel like they're looking up at the bar. Bar stools average a 30-inch seat height. This is an important measurement to remember, especially when it's easy to confuse a bar stool with a counter stool. Counter stools are typically shorter, with an average height of 26 inches. Just remember, bars are higher than counters, and therefore bar stools are taller; they can go up to 34 inches for tall models.
The height adjustable swivel seat adjusts from counter to bar height with the handle located below the seat. More Options » Sophy Adjustable Height Swivel Bar Stool by Flash Furniture from $56.95 $119.99 Free Shipping (68) Sale Product Features Overall: 38. H x 20. We want to make sure when you buy one of our Counter Height Barstools online from Wayfair.com, you're getting the one that's exactly right for you, whether that's the Melrose 24 Swivel Bar Stool with Cushion, the 26. Bar Stool (Set of 2), or something entirely different and unique to your home
Counter Height Tables: A Counter Height Table, with its additional height can be used near the kitchen for an additional prep area. Counter Height Tables are also considered more casual, and make it easier to converse with others standing in the room. The advantages of a Bar Height Table are the same as Counter Height Table but even more-so. They are extremely causal, as the difference between standing and sitting is even more blurred.
This is the median price based on sales of this product in the same condition from all listings on ebay.com in the past 14 days, or if there are any insufficient number of listings for a meaningful calculation, the past 90 days. 
First, there are table-height stools. These stools have the same height as your kitchen table. Your typical dining and kitchen chair seats are 18 to 19 inches from the floor to the top of the seat and your tables are around 28 to 30 inches high. Counter stools are designed to be paired with a standard-height counter, which is 36 inches tall or the height of your kitchen counter. So a counter stool seat ranges in height from 24 to 26 inches. Remember again we’re looking at seat height, not back height. A good rule is to allow 26 to 30 inches between the centers of each stool seat. So from the center of the first stool to the center of the second stool should be about 26 to 30 inches. Another way to figure is to leave a minimum of 24 inches for each person. So a 6-foot counter will allow for three stools.
Although rarely used in a home, a spectator or stadium stool is what you see in box seating in a stadium or performing arts center, such as The Smith Center for the Performing Arts. This stool is 33 to 36 inches from the floor to the top of a seat with a counter height of 44 to 47 inches. A good rule is to allow 26 to 30 inches between the centers of each stool seat. So from the center of the first stool to the center of the second stool should be about 26 to 30 inches. Another way to figure is to leave a minimum of 24 inches for each person. So a 6-foot counter will allow for three stools.
They are smaller than the typical stool you see in a pub.25-inch Bar Stool: 25 stools are the perfect height for a 36 or 37 bar or table. They are smaller than the typical stool you see in a pub.26-inch Bar Stool: 26 stools are the perfect height for a 38 bar or table. They are smaller than the typical stool you see in a pub.30-inch Bar Stool: 30 stools are the perfect height for the standard 42 bar/counter top, or for the garage. These are the same size as many stools you see in a bar.Our mounted Counter Stools come in any height from 18 to 30
Bar Height Counter-height stools are shorter, with an average 26-inch seat height. Bar-height stools are taller, with an average 30-inch seat height. There are also extra tall bar stools, and these seat heights average 34 inches. The seat Read More. Whether you have a bar-height table or a kitchen counter you want to get more use out of, you need bar stools.