Hypothyroidism: Control the Condition, Control the Weight. The best way to manage weight gain from hypothyroidism is to control the condition. If you get your metabolism back up to speed, the weight shouldn't keep adding up. You'll also have more energy, which can help motivate you to exercise. Hypothyroidism can be treated with a thyroid hormone supplement, which provides the body with the thyroid hormone it needs to keep metabolism at a healthy level.
When they eat and consume fewer calories, they lose weight. Someone with an underactive thyroid will not burn energy anywhere near as fast as someone with a healthy thyroid. The result is that even if they eat less they gain weight. This is why those who suffer with hypothyroidism struggle with weight loss. If your thyroid is healthy and your liver is not you may still not lose weight. You need to heal both organs. There are many reasons why your liver may not be functioning well, but one of them is a malfunctioning thyroid. This is another reason why, for people with hypothyroidism, weight loss can be difficult.
If you have an underactive thryroid, without treatment weight loss seems hopeless. Weight loss isn't possible when your metabolism slows to a crawl. You feel fatigued, and your mind acts like it is in a fog. Most people do not realize how much thyroid imbalance can effect and change their quality of life. 10 Signs that your Thyroid can be the cause of your Weight Loss problem. 1. You have a family member with a thyroid problem. This is especially true if the family member in question was your mother, grandmother or aunt.
Hypothyroidism is a condition in which the thyroid gland, which produces hormones that regulate a number of body processes, becomes underactive and doesn't produce enough thyroid hormone to allow the body to function properly. If you get your metabolism back up to speed, the weight shouldn't keep adding up. You'll also have more energy, which can help motivate you to exercise. Hypothyroidism can be treated with a thyroid hormone supplement, which provides the body with the thyroid hormone it needs to keep metabolism at a healthy level.
by HypoThyroid Sufferer. If you have hypothyroidism (underactive thyroid), you will know that losing weight can be problematic. The condition causes you to gain weight, so even if you virtually starve yourself you cannot lose weight. For some, once their underactive thyroid has been treated losing weight becomes easier. If your thyroid is healthy and your liver is not you may still not lose weight. You need to heal both organs. There are many reasons why your liver may not be functioning well, but one of them is a malfunctioning thyroid. This is another reason why, for people with hypothyroidism, weight loss can be difficult.
Underactive thyroid Photo Credit George Doyle/Stockbyte/Getty Images. It's hard to lose weight when your metabolism slows down, but there are things you can do. The thyroid, a butterfly-shaped gland in your throat, produces hormones that regulate many bodily functions, including metabolism. Follow a low-calorie diet. Anyone who wants to lose weight must burn more calories than are consumed. Unfortunately, for someone with an underactive thyroid, it can be difficult because the metabolism slows, meaning the body naturally burns fewer calories.
Hypothyroidism: Why Weight Loss is Tough. When your thyroid is not functioning well, your metabolism goes down and you start to gain weight, says Anne Wolf, RD, MS, a registered dietitian and researcher at the University of Virginia School of Medicine in Charlottesville. If you get your metabolism back up to speed, the weight shouldn't keep adding up. You'll also have more energy, which can help motivate you to exercise. Hypothyroidism can be treated with a thyroid hormone supplement, which provides the body with the thyroid hormone it needs to keep metabolism at a healthy level.
Other symptoms of a sluggish thyroid gland include depression, exhaustion, dry skin and brittle hair, body aches and cramps, hoarse voice and weight gain. An underactive thyroid is generally treated with hormone replacement. However, to keep your weight under control, lifestyle changes can help. Follow a low-calorie diet. Anyone who wants to lose weight must burn more calories than are consumed. Unfortunately, for someone with an underactive thyroid, it can be difficult because the metabolism slows, meaning the body naturally burns fewer calories.
Tweet. Q: After gaining weight and having no energy to exercise, I was diagnosed with an underactive thyroid gland. Now having been on thyroxine I have more energy and am back at the gym twice a week. But instead of losing weight as my doctor promised, I’m continuing to put on weight. 
Because patients with an underactive thyroid tend to have a very low basal metabolic rate, one of the most noticeable symptoms of hypothyroidism is weight gain and difficulty losing extra weight. (Sometimes an overactive thyroid can mimic an underactive thyroid by causing weight gain, although this is less common). A minority of women with hypothyroidism don’t gain weight. The difference arises from their individual biochemistry, the quality of the calories they consume, and how they use those calories.