Many rainforests receive an inch or more of rain every single day! Rainforests are found in the tropical areas north and south of the equator. The largest rainforest in the world is the Amazon rainforest in South America. Rainforests can also be found throughout Africa, Asia, Australia and Central America. All rainforests have a canopy, which is a layer of branches and leaves formed at the tops of the tall trees that make up the rainforest.
As the name implies, rainforests are the forests that get very high amount of rainfall every year, more than the normal annual rainfall of 1750–2000 mm (68-78 inches). Most of the rainforests in this world are located around the middle of earth near the equator like South and Central America, Africa, Asia and Australia. Rainforests cover about 6% of the total surface of the Earth and are home to more than half of the species of plants and animals of the world. 
Tropical rainforests are near the equator because the climate there is warm, very wet and constant due to the position of the sun over the equator; it's always directly overhead. The plants that live there thrive in these conditions. The equator is the collection of every point on the earth's surface that is at equal distances from both north and south poles.  There are so many of them that if you drew th … em all on a globe, they would look like a line, all the way around the middle of the globe.
A tropical rainforest is typically hot year round with little temperature change from month to month. Tropical rainforests are near the equator because the climate there is warm, very wet and constant due to the position of the sun over the equator; it's always directly overhead. The plants that live there thrive in these conditions. There are only two seasons in the tropical rainforests: wet season and dry season. Confidence votes 86. The region around the equator is the tropics (both north and south), so any rainforest around the equator which is in the tropics is a tropical rainforest. A rainforest can exist (and does exist) outside the tropics.
Tropical rainforests are found in the world's monsoon trough, which is also known as the intertropical convergence zone. This is roughly located between the Tropic of Cancer and the Tropic of Capricorn, 22 ° degrees north and south of the equator. Rainforests. There are actually two types of rainforest; those found in tropical regions and those found in temperate regions, but both types need an annual rainfall of between 69 and 78 inches (1750 - 2000mm).
The rainforests are found close to the equator. The sun rises high in the sky every day, all year round, making it very hot during the day. To protect themselves from the heat, the plants release water. The water evaporates from the surface of their leaves. 
The region around the equator is the tropics (both north and south), so any rainforest around the equator which is in the tropics is a tropical rainforest. A rainforest can … exist (and does exist) outside the tropics. The Pacific Northwest, for example, has the Hoh rainforest. The equator is the collection of every point on the earth's surface that is at equal distances from both north and south poles.  There are so many of them that if you drew th … em all on a globe, they would look like a line, all the way around the middle of the globe.
Tropical rainforests are warm, wet forests with many tall trees. They grow in a narrow zone near the equator. Tropical rainforests are found in Africa, Asia, Australia, and Central and South America. The largest rainforest in the world is the Amazon rainforest in South America. Tropical rainforests are home to a huge number of different plants and animals. All tropical rainforests are endangered. All tropical rainforests are found in a belt wrapping around the equator of the earth. This region is called the tropics. In the tropics the sun shines directly overhead about the same length of time every day, each day of the year. As a result, temperature is the same most days of the year.
Temperate rainforests are found in areas such as the Pacific North West of North America; parts of Europe including parts of the British Isles and Norway; East Asia, including Southern China, Japan and Korea; and the South West of South America. Rainforests. There are actually two types of rainforest; those found in tropical regions and those found in temperate regions, but both types need an annual rainfall of between 69 and 78 inches (1750 - 2000mm).