Called also clear layer. Present in the epidermis of the planum nasale of several species and footpads of carnivores. stratum spinosum. the layer of the epidermis between the stratum granulosum and the stratum basale, marked by the presence of prickle cells; called also spinous layer and prickle-cell layer. stratum tectorium. the layer of horny scales claimed to exist on the surface of the horse's hoof that gives it the smooth glossy appearance. 2. the lower layer of the nail, from which the nail grows; called also germinative layer. stratum granulo´sum the cell layer of the epidermis lying between the stratum lucidum and the stratum spinosum. Called also granular layer. 1. the deep layer of the cortex of the cerebellum. 2. the layer of follicle cells lining the theca of the vesicular ovarian follicle; called also granular layer
The epidermis of the palms and soles has the following strata: stratum corneum (horny layer), stratum lucidum (clear layer), stratum granulosum (granular layer), stratum spinosum (prickle cell layer), and stratum basale (basal cell layer); in other parts of the body, the stratum lucidum may be absent. This horny layer is thick over areas of the body subject to abrasion, such as the palms of the hands, and thin over other more protected areas. Altogether these layers are between 0.5 and 1.1 mm in thickness. Also called cuticle. See also skin. epidermal, epidermoid, adj.
Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answer by Sabramova2363. Confidence votes 43. The Stratum Spinosum are the cells that are also called the prickle cells. Stratum spinosum are not the cells: it's one of the epidermal layers. Keratinocytes are the cells which also called prickled cells
0 votes. answered by Lifeeasy Authors. The spinous cells are also called as the prickle cells which produce the layer stratum spinosum called prickling layer of the epidermis. 
Keratinocytes = cells of the skin producing keratin; so called prickle or MALPIGHIAN cells. Stratum basale = basal layer. is, together with the stratum spinosum, responsible for cell reproduction in this layer; this layer consists of tall cylindrical cells (Epitheliocytus basalis) and melanocytes. Stratum spinosum = prickle cell layer. is multi-layered and consists of polygon-shaped cells joined together by desmosomes (visible in the electron microscope as thickening of the cell membrane). In this layer the keratinocytes are joined by tonofibrils (a filament of proteins) like a network.
Spinous cells, or prickle cells, are keratin producing epidermal cells owing their prickly appearance to their numerous intracellular connections. They make up the stratum spinosum (prickly layer) of the epidermis and provide a continuous net-like layer of protection for underlying tissue. They are pushed upward into the stratum spinosum by the continuous formation of new cells in the basal layer. They reach the outmost layer of the skin as flattened dead flaking skin cells we shed daily. The journey from origin to shed takes 25 to 45 days.
Keratinocytes. Can you identify the keratinocytes and melanocytes in the photo. Also called prickle cells, these are the most common, and make up the majority of the cells (about 90%) in the epidermis. These are found in the stratum spinosum layer of the epidermis. They are irregularly shaped dendritic cells, without keratin filaments of melanosomes, and they are antigen presenting cells.
is the layer where the cells start to become horny (epitheliolysis). It is also called granulosa layer of Langerhans. Stratum spinosum = prickle cell layer. is multi-layered and consists of polygon-shaped cells joined together by desmosomes (visible in the electron microscope as thickening of the cell membrane). In this layer the keratinocytes are joined by tonofibrils (a filament of proteins) like a network.