Diffusion and children's lines to continue in move she hopes will get 'balance back' in life with her family. Collette Dinnigan with her son, Hunter. The fashion designer is closing her boutiques in Sydney, Melbourne and London and will stop producing her signature, luxury bridal and evening attire. Photograph: AAP/Collette Dinnigan.
The acclaimed Australian designer Collette Dinnigan is downsizing her business to spend more time with her family. Dinnigan will close her boutiques in Sydney, Melbourne and London and stop producing her signature, luxury bridal and evening attire.
AUSSIE designer Collette Dinnigan is closing her business after 24 years in the fashion industry. In a statement released this morning she announced that she wants to spend more time with family. I have sacrificed a lot of family time in building and maintaining my business, she said.
Collette Dinnigan. By SARA TEMPLETON. The Dinnigan name is synonymous with Australian fashion design, but it's a little known fact that the prolific designer actually studied the art of the stitch in New Zealand. She graduating from a Wellington Polytech design course and look where she is now.
Collette by Collette Dinnigan will continue to be sold through David Jones, Neiman Marcus, Net-a-Porter, Matches Fashion and selected boutiques. Collette Dinnigan Enfant will be relaunched in November and will continue to be sold through David Jones stores.
In 1995, Dinnigan was the first Australian to launch a ready-to-wear collection in Paris; she was also the first to be asked to be in the 'ready-to-wear parade' in Paris. Her range is now stocked in her stores in Sydney, Melbourne and London, and in David Jones department stores.
Collette Dinnigan is appointed as an advisor to the South Australian Wool Board. In recognition of Collette Dinnigan’s outstanding contribution to Australian business she is presented with the Louis Vuitton Business Award.
On 29 October 2013, it was announced that by the end of 2013, Dinnigan will have significantly scaled down her business, closing her boutiques in Sydney, Melbourne and London and stopping production of her bridal and evening wear lines.