To understand disc desiccation, it is first necessary to understand a few other terms. To begin with, vertebrae are bones that form an opening in which the spinal cord passes. These bones are stacked one on top of another. Each individual bone that makes up the vertebrae is called a vertebra. Disc desiccation is sometimes referred to as disc degeneration and degenerative disc disease (DDD). Disc desiccation comes from the Greek word diskos meaning flat plate, and the Latin word desiccare meaning to dry up completely..
In biology and ecology, desiccation refers to the drying out of a living organism, such as when aquatic animals are taken out of water, slugs are exposed to salt, or when plants are exposed to sunlight or drought. Ecologists frequently study and assess various organisms' susceptibility to desiccation. Centripetal desiccation cracks in the Lower Jurassic Moenave Formation at the St. George Dinosaur Discovery Site at Johnson Farm, southwestern Utah. A dinosaur footprint is at center.
Disc desiccation is another term used virtually interchangeably for degenerative disc disease. Actually, desiccation is the very first step in the DDD process, when discs first start to show the physical changes associated with the spinal aging progression. Disc Desiccation Facts. It must be noted that degenerative disc disease is not a condition of the elderly, as the name implies. In fact, we all have the signs of it by 30 and many of us have it in our teens. I was diagnosed with moderate lumbar degenerative disc disease at 16.
Additionally, desiccation is completely universal and normal in the cervical and lumbar spinal regions and is expected to occur. So, do not be surprised if this term is used to describe a few of the intervertebral discs in your spine; L4/L5 and L5/S1 for sure! Disc Desiccation Facts. It must be noted that degenerative disc disease is not a condition of the elderly, as the name implies. In fact, we all have the signs of it by 30 and many of us have it in our teens. I was diagnosed with moderate lumbar degenerative disc disease at 16.
Disc desiccation is an extremely common degenerative change of intervertebral discs. The incidence climbs with age, and to a large degree a gradual desiccation is a 'normal' part of disc aging. It results from replacement of the hydrophilic glycosaminoglycans within the nucleus polposus with fibrocartilage.
Desiccation is the state of extreme dryness, or the process of extreme drying. A desiccant is a hygroscopic (attracts and holds water) substance that induces or sustains such a state in its local vicinity in a moderately sealed container. Centripetal desiccation cracks in the Lower Jurassic Moenave Formation at the St. George Dinosaur Discovery Site at Johnson Farm, southwestern Utah. A dinosaur footprint is at center.
Disc desiccation is another of the many diagnostic terms for disc degeneration, also known as degenerative disc disease. When discs desiccate, they dry out and shrink, losing mass, circumference and diameter. As the desiccation progresses, the disc may herniate, but this is not inherent or unavoidable. This essay will investigate why intervertebral discs dry out and the effects this deterioration will have on the spinal anatomy.
Disc desiccation is abnormal dryness of the discs. Disc desiccation is common in older people and it can occur in any area of the spine from top to bottom. In fact, most people will experience some degree of disc desiccation in their lives. Disc desiccation is sometimes referred to as disc degeneration and degenerative disc disease (DDD). Disc desiccation comes from the Greek word diskos meaning flat plate, and the Latin word desiccare meaning to dry up completely..
I will start with what this is. Disc desiccation means the intervertebral disc (the cushion between the vertebrae) is drying out and hardening. L5-S1 is the location: betwee … n the fifth (last) lumbar (back) vertebra and the first sacral (pelvic) vertebra. Disc desiccation is sometimes referred to as disc degeneration and degenerative disc disease (DDD). Disc desiccation comes from the Greek word diskos meaning flat plate, and the Latin word desiccare meaning to dry up completely..