CalSTRS Offices. CalSTRS headquarters is located in West Sacramento, along the West Sacramento River Walk. The 13-story tower and two levels of public space aligns business and technology changes to improve member services. Four conference and one board room are available to the public during regular business hours. Visit the CalSTRS Room Rentals page for pricing and room set up information. Fees are waived for CalSTRS member groups.
CalSTRS Home Loan for Teachers in California. CalSTRS offers an 80/17 combo loan program to help teachers purchase or refinance a home and are members of the California State Teachers Retirement System (CalSTRS). CalSTRS is not an actual lender, rather they invest in mortgage notes which are then are paid back to the CalSTRS pension fund. The CalSTRS combo home loan is a very effective purchase loan program for teachers in the Inland Empire counties of Riverside, San Bernardino, San Diego, Orange County, and Los Angeles. The CalSTRS 80/17 teacher purchase loan is a combo loan where a first loan (30 year fixed) is set at 80% LTV of the homes sales price (to avoid paying PMI) and a second mortgage is set at 17% CLTV.
The Fresno County Office of Education provides a local CalSTRS office in order to serve certificated members regarding their pensions with informational workshops, group counseling, individual counseling, publications, assistance with forms completion, and acceptance of forms. The CalSTRS office primarily serves members from Fresno, Kings, Madera, and Tulare counties but can and does provide services to any certificated member in California. Please be advised that the FCOE CalSTRS department is located at 855 N. Abby. See map and direction
The CalSTRS’ mission is to secure the financial future and sustain the trust of California’s educators. The CalSTRS is headquartered in West Sacramento with member service centers located in Glendale, Santa Clara, and Irvine. As of June 30, 2014, the CalSTRS employs approximately 1,000 staff statewide. The CRU also interviewed appropriate the CalSTRS’ staff. CalSTRS PSC’s were also randomly selected to ensure that various types of contracted services and contract amounts were reviewed. The CalSTRS contracted for legal services, consulting services, graphic design services, and various personal services.
Retirement counseling services for members of the California State Teachers' Retirement System (CalSTRS) are provided directly through the CalSTRS Member Service Center located in the City of Irvine, California. Obtaining Retirement Counseling Services. Retirement services can be obtain by connection with CalSTRS using one of the methods below: 1  Workshop information can be obtained by visiting: CalSTRS Workshops. 2  Member self-schedule is available online by visiting: www.calstrs.com.
Calstrs is on of the top 10 largest pension funds in the world with more than 800,000 members. Calstrs was formed in 1913 and has their head office located in Sacramento California. Once signed by the Judge, the order can then go back to CALSTRS as an order directing them to divide accounts. Important note, most Judges in California are requiring an approval letter from CALSTRS indicating the QDRO has already been reviewed and approved by their legal team.
As a result of CalSTRS decision, Mountain West Financial launched an alternative to CalSTRS home loan with a new loan program to help Teachers qualify for affordable low down payment home. updated list of Teacher home loan & down payment assistance programs in California. The CalSTRS 80/17 teacher purchase loan is a combo loan where a first loan (30 year fixed) is set at 80% LTV of the homes sales price (to avoid paying PMI) and a second mortgage is set at 17% CLTV.
With most pension/retirement splits in California there’s a specific process outlined by the court to properly complete the division of an account awarded in a divorce order. A CALSTRS pension/retirement division is no different. The court initially requires that CALSTRS must be brought into the court case. Once signed by the Judge, the order can then go back to CALSTRS as an order directing them to divide accounts. Important note, most Judges in California are requiring an approval letter from CALSTRS indicating the QDRO has already been reviewed and approved by their legal team.