Underweight women should gain 28 to 40 pounds. And overweight women may need to gain only 15 to 25 pounds during pregnancy. In general, you should gain about 2 to 4 pounds during the first three months you're pregnant and 1 pound a week during the rest of your pregnancy. If you are expecting twins you should gain 35 to 45 pounds during
I usually gain 2-3lbs a couple days before. I'm not overweight, I'm undertall. NINDOVINA1 Posts: 6 4/10/09 10:25 A. I usually gain a few pounds or don't lose anything the week before by period...I've noticed lately that I actually lose weight the first day of my period...crazy. CLIMBERCHICK14 Posts: 11,246 4/10/09 9:06 A. 2-5 lbs and I swell up like I'm 3-4 months preggo. Perfer et obdura; dolor hic tibi proderit olim..
I used to gain several pounds, but since I've started eating clean I don't gain, but I don't lose either. SHEABIRD1 Posts: 89 1/28/10 3:28 P. I usually gain 2-4 pounds...but lose it right away and then some! This month I lost 2 pounds right after my period.
You’ve been exercising and eating healthy, but the scale just threw you a curve ball, clocking in at five more pounds than last week. Don’t worry—if your shocking weigh-in lands the week before your period, you can chalk it up to water weight, reassures Raquel Dardik, M.D., gynecologist at NYU Langone Medical Center.
“Weight gain happens five days before your period, but you’ll be back to normal once you start,” she explains. (Find out What Your Period Means for Your Workout Schedule .). Pre-period water weight can range from half of a pound to 10 pounds, usually averaging around five for most women, Dardik explains.
Other symptoms of PMS include bloating, abdominal cramps, and irritability. Weight gain during a period is usually due to water retention in the tissues. Although it is not a serious condition, women may be alarmed that they can gain a few pounds, ranging from one to six pounds. Others can gain as much as ten pounds, even if they feel that they have not done anything to increase their weight.