Balloon carriers were the first ships to deploy manned aircraft, used during the 19th and early 20th century, mainly for observation purposes. The advent of fixed-wing aircraft in 1903 was followed in 1910 by the first flight from the deck of a US Navy cruiser. The first ship to have a full-length flat deck was HMS Argus, the conversion of which was completed in September 1918. The United States Navy did not follow suit until 1920, when the conversion of USS Langley (an experimental ship which did not count against America's carrier tonnage) was completed.
While the Navy has attempted to be systematic in naming its ships, in recent years it seems there has been a complete breakdown in any attempt to sustain a systematic practice in the name categories for ship types. The first ship named for a living person was USS Carl Vinson (CVN 70) in 1975. Other ships named for living people include: 1  USS Arleigh Burke (DDG 51). 2  USS Hyman G. Rickover (SSN 709). Starting at the beginning of the 20th Century, the Navy's ships were named in accordance with a system, tailored to
USS Langley-The US Navy's First Aircraft Carrier: Work began immediately to convert the ship, which was renamed in honor of aviation pioneer Samuel Pierpont Langley on April 21, 1920. 
During WWII aircraft carriers were almost all named after famous battles in American history, but the Enterprise was named for a ship of the Barbary Pirate War, and the Bon Ho … mme Richard after John Paul Jones' ship. Battleships were named after states. The first ship designed and built from the keel up as a carrier was the USS Ranger (CV 4). It was small, and experimental. With the USS Yorktown (CV 5) and USS Enterprise (CV 6) the US Navy settled down to the type of design that would mark all the carriers completed through the end of WWII. Answered.
In the 19th Century, the last vessel named after a living person was the USS Harriet Lane, commissioned by the US Revenue Cutter Service in 1857, transferred to the US Navy in 1861, named for Harriet Lane, niece and surrogate First Lady of bachelor President James Buchanan. The first submarine of the US Navy, the Holland (SS-1), was commissioned in 1900 and named after the constructor of the vessel John Philip Holland, who died August 1914. And for 75 years thereafter, no American warship was named after a living person.
After President Franklin D. Roosevelt’s death, Secretary of the Navy James Forrestal recommended to President Harry S. Truman that the second of the new Midway-class carriers be named in Roosevelt’s honor. It was the first time since the Langley that a carrier had been named after an individual. In 1968, the USS John F. Kennedy was commissioned, and the orthodox traditionalist group recommended that future aircraft carrier names be considered on an individual basis.
Photograph by John Wilson, U.S. Navy. Which brings us to carriers. The Navy’s first carrier (a converted collier), the USS Langley, was named for aviation pioneer Samuel P. Langley, the inventor of the Aerodrome, and the third Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. It was the first time since the Langley that a carrier had been named after an individual. In 1968, the USS John F. Kennedy was commissioned, and the orthodox traditionalist group recommended that future aircraft carrier names be considered on an individual basis.
After WWII, the first of our new carriers was the USS Forrestal, named for the first Secretary of Defense. Newer carrier names seem mostly to have followed that pattern, except where an older name was used (Enterprise) or another name was selected (America). The navy has veered from time to time from the traditional naming of ships. One of our earliest battleships was named after another ship, and not a state [ Kearsarge, named after the US ship that sank the Confederate raider Alabama.
The US Navy has christened the first of its new Ford-class of nuclear-powered aircraft carriers. The new super-carrier, which is only 70% complete, is named after late US President Gerald Ford. It is the first of 10 carriers designed to get more fighter planes into the sky more quickly, but with 1,000 fewer crew members.