Darjeeling is a town and a municipality in the Indian state of West Bengal. It is located in the Mahabharat Range or Lesser Himalaya at an elevation of 6,700 ft (2,042.2 m). It is noted for its tea industry and the Darjeeling Himalayan Railway, a UNESCO World Heritage Site. It is located at an elevation of 6,700 ft (2,000 m) in the Darjeeling Himalayan hill region on the Darjeeling-Jalapahar range that originates in the south from Ghum. The range is Y-shaped with the base resting at Katapahar and Jalapahar and two arms diverging north of the Observatory Hill.
Located in very high altitudes, Darjeeling India is West Bengal's coolest destination. Temperatures in summer remain in the range of 15-20 degrees. But winters are very cold with chances of temperature falling to 0 degrees also. Heavy rains during the June-September monsoon period sometimes results in landslides also. By Road: There are direct bus and jeep services to Darjeeling from New Jalpaiguri and destinations of Sikkim. As the terrain is hilly, reaching Darjeeling normally takes more time. Where To Stay Accommodation is not at all a problem in Darjeeling India.
Darjeeling is one of the most scenic and hugely popular hill resorts in India. At 2,134 meters above mean sea level, it is 686 km from Kolkata in West Bengal. Amidst the backdrop of the mighty snow-clad Himalayan peaks, Darjeeling has been popular with tourists for its beauty and pleasant climate. It is home to the Darjeeling Himalayan Railway (DHR), a World Heritage Site. Tourists can enjoy leisurely walks through the town’s quaint streets, watching the laidback life of the locals.
Darjeeling tea is a tea from the Darjeeling district in West Bengal, India. It is available in black, green, white and oolong. When properly brewed, it yields a thin-bodied, light-coloured infusion with a floral aroma. Tea planting in the Indian district of Darjeeling began in 1841 by Arthur Campbell, a civil surgeon of the Indian Medical Service. Campbell was transferred to Darjeeling in 1839 from Kathmandu, Nepal.
Split and merge into it. Answer by Cazort. Confidence votes 3.3K. Darjeeling is located in India, at the foothills of the Himalayan Mountain range, in the Indian state of West Bengal. Darjeeling borders Nepal to the west, and shares a small border with Bhutan and Bangladesh. It also borders the Sikkim and Jalpaiguri districts of India. 
Darjeeling, India, is located in the very Northern part of the West Bengal state. Coming from Kolkata, it's hard to believe that Darjeeling is actually in the same state, it's such a vastly different place. 
Darjeeling is the main town of the Sadar subdivision and also the headquarters of the district. It is located at an elevation of 6,700 ft (2,000 m) in the Darjeeling Himalayan hill region on the Darjeeling-Jalapahar range that originates in the south from Ghum. The range is Y-shaped with the base resting at Katapahar and Jalapahar and two arms diverging north of the Observatory Hill.
Darjeeling district lies in the north of the state of West Bengal, in the foothills of the eastern Himalayas. The district touches three international boundaries-with Nepal, Bhutan and Bangladesh. Its boundary also touches the north eastern state of Sikkim and the Jalpaiguri district of West Bengal. Located between latitude 27° 13' N to 26° 27' N and longitude 88°53' E to 87°59' E, Darjeeling district is spread over 3149 square kilometers. The terrain in the district is both hilly and plain. The Himalayan Darjeeling railway connecting Siliguri to Darjeeling is a World heritage site and a tourist attraction in the district. The railway station at Ghum town is the highest in the country.
Tourism in Darjeeling. Darjeeling located in the state of West Bengal is situated at an attitude of 6,710 ft in Lesser Himalaya. This UNESCO World Heritage Site is noted for its Darjeeling Himalayan Railways and its famous tea industry. Location. Darjeeling lies in the north of the state of West Bengal and is situated in the foothills of the eastern Himalayas. The district of Darjeeling shares its boundaries with countries like Bangladesh, Bhutan and Nepal.