A Chordophone is 'any musical instrument that makes sound by way of a vibrating string or strings stretched between two points' so the Violin would be a good example. Since a chordophone is, by definition, a stringed instrument, all stringed instruments are in the chordophone family. But if you want to be more precise there are the violin, … the guitar, the cello, the harp, double bass, viola, mandolin and the ukulele. 3 people found this useful.
Chordophone-- a musical instrument where sound is primarily produced by vibrating strings stretched from one point to the other. (eg. violin, guitar --pretty much any string instrument) Membranophone-- a musical instrument that produces sound primarily by way of a vibrating stretched membrane. (eg. drums)
Chordophone. A chordophone is any musical instrument that makes sound by way of a vibrating string or strings stretched between two points. It is one of the four main divisions of instruments in the original Hornbostel-Sachs scheme of musical instrument classification
chordophone. n. 1. (Instruments) any musical instrument producing sounds through the vibration of strings, such as the piano, harp, violin, or guitar. 
Definition: A chordophone is an instrument that is sounded by a string or strings. The piano, clavichord, harpsichord, hurdy-gurdy, harp, cello, and guitar are all examples of chordophones; the first four of which are keyboard instruments. (From Latin chorda / Italian corda, “string”; Greek phone, “voice, sound”). See aerophone.
No, a chordophone is any musical instrument which makes sound by way of a vibrating string or strings stretched between two points. A trumpet is a wind instrument. Edit. Share to: Kara Moore. Since a chordophone is, by definition, a stringed instrument, all stringed instruments are in the chordophone family. But if you want to be more precise there are the violin, … the guitar, the cello, the harp, double bass, viola, mandolin and the ukulele. 3 people found this useful.
The harp is a chordophone with prominent strings. A chordophone is a musical instrument that makes sound by way of a vibrating string or strings stretched between two points. It is one of the four main divisions of instruments in the original Hornbostel-Sachs scheme of musical instrument classification. What many would call string instruments are classified as chordophones. Violins, guitars, lyres, and harps are examples.
Definition of CHORDOPHONE. : any of a class of musical instruments (such as a guitar or piano) whose sound is generated by plucking, bowing, or striking stretched strings: stringed instrument — compare aerophone, electrophone, idiophone, lamellophone, membranophone. — chor·do·phon·ic adjective. ADVERTISEMENT.