Characteristic. Definition. noun, plural: characteristics. (1) A distinguishing quality, trait or feature of an individual, thing, disorder, etc. (2) A distinctive mark, feature, attribute, or property of an individual or thing. adjective. Being a feature or trait that helps identify an individual, thing, etc. Supplement. 
Definition of a species is typically related to its ability to reproduce with other members of that species-a human being is human if it had, has, is going to have, or … could have the ability to reproduce with another human being. Conversely the offspring of a species is not necessarily a member of that species. The theme of geography that uses physical and human characteristics is Place. Physical Characteristics are basically what was made naturally and humans have not changed it. H … uman Characteristics of a place are the characteristics of a place which have been changed to adapt to humans. 4 people found this useful.
Anthropomorphism is the attribution of human form or other characteristics to beings other than humans, particularly deities and animals. People attribute human-like mental states, for example, to God and non-human animals. Personification is the related attribution of human form and characteristics to abstract concepts such as nations and natural forces likes seasons and the weather. Both have ancient roots as storytelling and artistic devices. Most cultures have traditional fables with anthropomorphized animals as characters.
Human characteristics in geography are the features and patterns of features on Earth's surface created by humans. They include buildings, dams, roads, etc. Human characteristics in biology are the fundamental dispositions and traits of humans. They include physical features, actions of humans, etc. The definition of Human Characteristics is what has been put in a place, not by nature, but by humans. They include the food people might eat, the shops, malls, school
Definition of ANTHROPOMORPHISM. : an interpretation of what is not human or personal in terms of human or personal characteristics: humanization. — an·thro·po·mor·phist \-fist\ noun. ADVERTISEMENT. Medical Definition of ANTHROPOMORPHISM. : an interpretation of what is not human or personal in terms of human or personal characteristics—compare theriomorphism. — an·thro·po·mor·phic \-fik\ adjective. — an·thro·po·mor·phi·cal·ly \-i-k(ə-)lē\ adverb
Definition of a species is typically related to its ability to reproduce with other members of that species-a human being is human if it had, has, is going to have, or … could have the ability to reproduce with another human being. Conversely the offspring of a species is not necessarily a member of that species. The definition of Human Characteristics is what has been put in a place, not by nature, but by humans. They include the food people might eat, the shops, malls, schools, etc
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The definition of Human Characteristics is what has been put in a place, not by nature, but by humans. They include the food people might eat, the shops, malls, schools, etc. The theme of geography that uses physical and human characteristics is Place. Physical Characteristics are basically what was made naturally and humans have not changed it. H … uman Characteristics of a place are the characteristics of a place which have been changed to adapt to humans. 4 people found this useful.