Italians love kids! You will find your family welcomed with open arms. We make family vacations in Italy easy to plan with family-friendly hotels and villa rentals, day trips and tours for you and your kids and suggestions for how to make your trip to Italy the most memorable family vacation ever!
Albergo Villa Marta is an intimate, family-run hotel in a gorgeous setting midway between Lucca and Pisa. This location near the coast makes it easy for families to easily explore the countryside and the beach, including Cinque Terre, from here. Guest rooms are charming and comfortable. Ciao Bambino! has insider info on the best places to stay and things to do in top destinations around the world. The CB! Hotel Collection and our editorial is just a fraction of what we know and love.
Italy is rich in genealogy and family history resources. Learn how to find Italian records, get free research tutorials and outlines for Italy, search free Italian genealogy databases, learn about Italian naming patterns, plus many other resources to help you trace your family tree in Italy. Get started researching your Italian roots with this guide to researching Italian ancestors in Italy. Includes an overview of major Italian genealogical records, how to access these records, Italian surnames and their meanings, Italian naming patterns and further resources for Italian genealogy research.
This family-friendly Borgo San Lorenzo villa is located in a rural location, 4.2 mi (6.8 km) from Mugello Circuit, and within … More. This family-friendly Montespertoli farm stay is located in a rural location, 4.5 mi (7.2 km) from Piazza Machiavelli, and … More.
Italians like to socialise outside the home and often meet in bars, restaurants and pizzerias, but gatherings at home are also very much a part of Italian life when Italians gather as a family to celebrate special occasions or just to come together to enjoy a meal on Sunday. The extended family still plays an important role in Italian life with many young families reliant on help from the grandparents to help with the children, especially when both parents are out at work all day. You will often see large family gatherings at restaurants or on holiday together.
This family-friendly Rome bed & breakfast is located in the historical district, within a 5-minute walk of Palazzo Crivelli … More. The staff are friendly and helpful and the hotel nice and quiet. It's just a 20 min bus ride to central Rome (though be careful of pick pockets on crowded buses). The only disappointment was the food, which to be fair was a surprisingly common issue in Rome.
This family-friendly Montaione apartment is located in a rural location, 3.3 mi (5.3 km) from Monastery of San Vivaldo, and … More. Check availability. This family-friendly Montespertoli farm stay is located in a rural location, 4.5 mi (7.2 km) from Piazza Machiavelli
LOCATION AND SIZE. Located in southern Europe, Italy is a peninsula extending into the Central Mediterranean Sea. It is shaped like a high-heeled boot kicking a triangle—the island of Sicily. Italy borders France to the west, Switzerland and Austria to the north, and Slovenia to the east. Grapes are to be found in every Italian region. Winemaking has a very long tradition in the country, and Italy enjoys a positive trade balance in this sector. The vines yield 9,459,000 metric tons of grapes and 62,618,000 hectoliters of wine (a hectoliter is 100 liters).
The Crowne Plaza is very comfortable and good value for money. The staff are friendly and helpful and the hotel nice and quiet. It's just a 20 min bus ride to central Rome (though be careful of pick pockets on crowded buses). The only disappointment was the food, which to be fair was a surprisingly common issue in Rome.