Your body makes its own fat from taking in excess calories. Some fats are found in foods from plants and animals and are known as dietary fat. Dietary fat is a macronutrient that provides energy for your body. Fat is essential to your health because it supports a number of your body's functions. Some vitamins, for instance, must have fat to dissolve and nourish your body. You don't need to completely eliminate all fat from your diet. In fact, some fats actually help promote good health. But it's wise to choose the healthier types of dietary fat and then enjoy them — in moderation.
They have good fats that can lower cholesterol. In general, fats that come from plants are healthier than those from animal products. Bad fats are in foods like fatty cuts of meat, full-fat dairy products, and some packaged foods. Check food labels to see how much fat, and what type, you're getting. Because our bodies can't make these good fats, you have to get them from food. Aim for 2-3 cups of vegetables every day. Include fish in your diet, too, since fish have a different kind of omega-3 fat that you need. Plants only offer a fraction of the omega-3s that fish do.
Most of the essential fatty acids are found in unsaturated fat, so foods high in saturated fat and cholesterol (animal fat, dairy products and eggs) should be eaten sparingly. Fats should make up only 10 to 25 percent of the calories (not weight) in your diet. Fats, oils, and waxes belong to the group of naturally occuring organic materials called lipids. Lipids are those constituents of plants or animals which are insoluble in water but soluble in other organic solvents.
Eggs. Eggs are a great source of inexpensive protein, and a large egg has less than 5 grams of fat, most from healthy fats. Some eggs are also enriched with extra omega-3s. It will say so on the carton. To stay healthy, limit yourself to just one egg a day. Because our bodies can't make these good fats, you have to get them from food. Aim for 2-3 cups of vegetables every day. Include fish in your diet, too, since fish have a different kind of omega-3 fat that you need. Plants only offer a fraction of the omega-3s that fish do.
Fats, or lipids, are the third main class of the macronutrients needed in human nutrition. The lipids are found primarily in meats and dairy foods, at least, these are the most visible sources, but most foods contain some fat. Some of the richer vegetable sources of dietary fat are nuts and seeds, soybeans, olives, peanuts, and avocados, and these contain the needed or essential fatty acids (EFAs). Fats are an important component of our diet, and at least a minimum intake is essential.
Foods Containing Sterols. Sterols, a subdivision of steroids, are a class of lipids that include plant compounds as well as cholesterol, which is only found in animal food sources. Sterols are important in the formation of cell membranes. These fats are found mainly in animal foods such as beef, pork, lamb, butter, milk and cheeses. Certain plant sources, such as coconut, coconut oil, cocoa butter and palm oil, also contain saturated fat. Harvard School of Public Health has ranked the top sources of saturated fat in the American diet
Salmon, flax seeds and walnuts are excellent sources of omega 3 fatty acids. Very good sources of these healthy fats include scallops, cauliflower, cabbage, cloves and mustard seeds. Good sources of these fats include halibut, shrimp, cod, tuna, soybeans, tofu, kale, collard greens, and Brussels sprouts. Fat Facts. 1 Fat adds flavor and taste to foods and gives you satiety value. 2  Fats are an important source of calories and nutrients especially for infants and toddlers. 3  Fats are known as triglycerides, both in food and in the body and they are the storage and transport form of fats.
Fatty Fish. The term “fatty fish” may sound unappealing, but actually, these are the healthiest and most delicious foods from the sea. Oily fish such as salmon, tuna, sardines, mackerel and trout are full of omega-3 fatty acids—good fats, unlike the bad saturated fat you find in most meats. 
Different forms of fatty acids include unsaturated fats, saturated fats and trans fatty acids. Both plant and animal sources contain different types of lipids that can provide beneficial and damaging health effects, depending on the type of lipid and the levels within the body. These fats are found mainly in animal foods such as beef, pork, lamb, butter, milk and cheeses. Certain plant sources, such as coconut, coconut oil, cocoa butter and palm oil, also contain saturated fat. Harvard School of Public Health has ranked the top sources of saturated fat in the American diet