Star anise is the fruit of a small evergreen tree native to Asia. These star shaped fruits are picked right before ripening and dried before use. They contain the same essential oil as the anise seed which gives the two a nearly identical strong, sweet licorice flavor. Anise seed can be used in whole or ground form to add an aromatic licorice flavor to recipes. Star anise is commonly used in its whole form to flavor teas, marinades, soups, broths, and other liquids.
Star anise is the seed pod from the fruit of the Illicium verum plant, an evergreen shrub native to Southwest China. Although this star shaped pod has a similar flavor and name to anise, the two plants are unrelated. A compound called anethole is responsible for the licorice like flavor of both plants. The star anise pod is dried before use as a spice, which turns it a deep brown or rust color.
Star anise, widely used as a spice in Asian cuisine, also has medicinal properties. Star anise is the star-shaped fruit of an evergreen plant known scientifically as Illicium verum. Originating in southern China, star anise has a licorice-or anise-like flavor, although it is not related to the true anise plants native to the Mediterranean basin and Middle East.
Star anise is the fruit of a small evergreen tree native to southwest China. The star-shaped fruits are picked just before ripening and dried before use. They contain the same essential oil as the botanically unrelated Spanish anise seed, which gives the two a nearly identical flavor-strong, sweet, and licoricey. Whole star anise is used to flavor tea, marinades, and soups. It is integral to the traditional Vietnamese soup pho, and is used in many other Chinese and southeast Asian dishes. Ground star anise, besides being used in baked goods, is a main ingredient in Chinese Five Spice powder.
Star anise recipes. Star anise is shaped like an eight-pointed star and contains seeds with an aniseed flavour, which comes from the spice's essential oil, anethole. It is used widely in Chinese cooking and is one of the five spices in Chinese five-spice powder. Ingredients. Star anise is shaped like an eight-pointed star and contains seeds with an aniseed flavour, which comes from the spice's essential oil, anethole.
Star anise seeds contain ingredients that might have activity against bacteria, yeast, and fungi. People try star anise for treating flu because it is a good source of shikimic acid, which is used in the manufacture of oseltamivir (Tamiflu), a flu treatment. In foods and beverages, star anise is considered a culinary spice; both the seed and oil are used as flavoring. In manufacturing, the oil is used as a fragrance in soaps, cosmetics, perfumes, and toothpaste, and to mask undesirable odors in drug products.
Star anise contains anethole, the same ingredient that gives the unrelated anise its flavor. Recently, star anise has come into use in the West as a less expensive substitute for anise in baking as well as in liquor production, most distinctively in the production of the liquor Galliano. Star anise oil is a highly fragrant oil used in cooking, perfumery, soaps, toothpastes, mouthwashes, and skin creams. 90% of the world's star anise crop is used for extraction of shikimic acid, a chemical intermediate used in the synthesis of oseltamivir.
A star-shaped, dark brown pod that contains a pea-size seed in each of its eight segments. Native to China, star anise comes from a small evergreen tree. It's flavor is slightly more bitter than that of regular anise seed. Asian cooks use star anise to give a licorice flavor to savory dishes, particularly those with pork and poultry. It's available whole or ground and is an ingredient in Chinese five-spice powder.
Definition: Star anise comes by its name honestly, with its star shape and a licorice taste similar to regular anise, only stronger. Star anise is the seed pod of an evergreen tree (Illicium Verum) grown in southwestern China and Japan. It is about one inch high with eight segments and a dark brown rust color.