Cerebrum vs. Cerebellum. Difference Between Cerebrum And Cerebellum. The cerebrum is the largest part of the brain, accounting for four-fifths of its total weight. It is made up of two sections, or hemispheres. Moreover, each hemisphere has four parts, or lobes—the frontal, parietal, temporal, and occipital lobes. 
Both the cerebrum and cerebral cortex come under the forebrain. Cerebrum. Cerebrum is the largest and most prominent part of the human brain. It appears to envelop the rest of the brain as it constitutes 4/5 of its weight. The nervous system is important to control and coordinate all the actions of an organism and transmit signals between different parts of the body. The system is basically made up of specialized cells called neurons. The complexity of the nervous system increases with the complexity of the body of organisms.
The forebrain consists of the cerebrum, thalamus, and hypothalamus (part of the limbic system). The midbrain consists of the tectum and tegmentum. The hindbrain is made of the cerebellum, pons and medulla. Often the midbrain, pons, and medulla are referred to together as the brainstem. The Cerebrum: The cerebrum or cortex is the largest part of the human brain, associated with higher brain function such as thought and action. 
5. It maintains posture and equilibrium. The cerebrum consists of two cerebral hemisphere joined by a curved thick band of nerve fibres, called corpus callosum. The outer layer of the cerebrum, known as cerebral cortex, is formed of grey matter and white matter. The cerebellum is similar to cerebrum in that it has two hemispheres and has a highly folded surface or cortex. The cerebellum is the second largest part of the brain, and is located at the back of the skull
Cerebrum. Cerebellum. 1) it is the largest part of brain. 1) it is the second largest part of the brain. 2) it forms about 83% part of the total brain weight. 2) it forms about 11% part of the total brain weight. 3) it is divided into two cerebral hemisphere by median longitudinal cerebral fissure. 
The differences between cerebrum and cerebellum are:  Cerebrum has sensory areas that interpret sensory activities, association areas that are concerned with emotional and in … tellectual processes like will, judgement, memory etc. It controls all voluntary activities. 1 Understanding the Basic Functions of the Cerebrum The cerebellum is located in near the base of the brain. 2  The cerebellum is Latin for little brain and is the second-largest structure in
Considering the importance of the cerebellum in motor control, it is not surprising to find that there are numerous neural pathways connecting it with the cerebral cortex, brainstem nuclei, spinal cord proprioceptive tracts, and the vestibular system. Like the cerebrum, the cerebellum is composed of cortical gray matter surrounding a large area of subcortical white matter. Similarly, the cerebellar surface is regular and grooved, forming folia (folds). Some of the grooves are particularly deep, forming fissures, which separate the cerebral mass into lobules.
Occipital lobe is responsible for processing of visuals. Temporal lobe is associated with perception and recognition of auditory stimuli, memory, and speech. Cerebellum. Cerebellum is the second largest brain of a human brain, located just below the posterior part of the cerebrum. It is the largest part of hind brain. Although it accounts for around 10% of the brain’s volume, it contains more than 50% of the total number of neurons in the brains. • Cerebrum is the largest part of the brain. Cerebellum is the second largest part of the brain. • Cerebrum is a part of fore brain while cerebellum is a part of hind brain. • Cerebrum controls voluntary functions and seat of intelligence, will power, memory etc
Another similarity between the cerebellum and the cerebrum is the presence of nuclei in the subcortical white matter. These are respectively called intracerebellar nuclei in the cerebellum and basal nuclei in the cerebrum. The intracerebellar nuclei are paired and located on either side of the midline. Like the cerebrum, the cerebellum is composed of cortical gray matter surrounding a large area of subcortical white matter. Similarly, the cerebellar surface is regular and grooved, forming folia (folds). Some of the grooves are particularly deep, forming fissures, which separate the cerebral mass into lobules.