If they're in a high-risk category, if they have a family history of prostate cancer, African-American, then those men should probably start at age 40 or 45 being seen on an annual basis. 
The age at which one should first have a prostate cancer screening has been debated. The recommendations of the American Cancer Society are for all patients over the age of 50 to undergo digital rectal examination and PSA testing. PSA Testing for Older Men. Prostate cancer is a disease that is associated with a higher incidence amongst the elderly. Autopsy studies show that up to 80% of 80-year-old men are found to have prostate cancer.
Using 50 as an arbitrary age cut-off is subject to much discussion. Patients who are at high risk for prostate cancer – such as African-American men or those with a strong family history of a father or brother who were diagnosed with prostate cancer prior to age 65 – should begin screening at age 45. PSA Testing for Older Men. Prostate cancer is a disease that is associated with a higher incidence amongst the elderly. Autopsy studies show that up to 80% of 80-year-old men are found to have prostate cancer.
Cancer screening tests — including the prostate-specific antigen (PSA) test to look for signs of prostate cancer — can be a good idea. Prostate cancer screening can help identify cancer early on, when treatment is most effective. But PSA levels can also be elevated in men with enlarged or inflamed prostate glands. Therefore, determining what a high PSA score means can be complicated. Besides the PSA number itself, your doctor will consider a number of other factors to evaluate your PSA scores: 1  Your age.
1 The majority of prostate cancers are found in men age 65 or older. 2  The option to have PSA testing begins at age 40 and continues until you're at the age when your life expectancy is 10 years or fewer. According to the ACS, men should explore the risks and benefits of the PSA test starting at age 50 if they are at average risk of prostate cancer, at age 45 if they are at high risk and at age 40 if they are at very high risk (those with several first-degree relatives who had prostate cancer at an early age).
If you are at increased risk, talk to a doctor about when you need to start testing and what tests are right for you. At this age, a cancer-related check-up should be part of your periodic health exams and might include exams for cancers of the thyroid, mouth, skin, lymph nodes, testicles, and ovaries. If you are, talk to a doctor about when you need to start getting mammograms or other tests. Cervical Cancer Testing. Starting at age 30, women at average risk should get a Pap test and HPV test every 5 years (the preferred approach) or they can continue to get only a Pap test every 3 years.
1 Age. 2  As you get older, your risk of prostate cancer increases. 3  After age 50, your chance of having prostate cancer increases substantially. 4  The majority of prostate cancers are found in men age 65 or older. According to the ACS, men should explore the risks and benefits of the PSA test starting at age 50 if they are at average risk of prostate cancer, at age 45 if they are at high risk and at age 40 if they are at very high risk (those with several first-degree relatives who had prostate cancer at an early age).