Metal injection molding offers industrial designers a host of advantages. MIM is a true enabling technology, allowing engineers to create metal parts previously impossible to manufacture economically. MIM offers: Flexible designs similar to plastic injection molding High performance hardness and density Cost reduction through elimination of process steps. MIMforms Custom Metal Injection Molding. MIMforms offers a full range of manufacturing services, enabling the delivery of complete and tested components.
Metal injection molding, or MIM as it’s commonly referred to in the firearms community has something of a bad name. Go to any forum, especially forums that specialize in S&W revolvers or 1911 pistols and you’ll no doubt see a post that reads “that gun has MIM parts in it, and MIM sucks” or something along those lines. MIM is just another manufacturing process. The problem with the soft sear in your 1911 isn’t because it’s a MIM part, the problem is that it’s a part that was manufactured with indifferent attention to detail and a casual attitude towards quality control.
MIM combines the design freedom of plastic injection molding with the performance of metal. Since the 1980's MIM has grown into a mainstream technology employed in a growing range of electronic and medical applications. MIM offers: Flexible designs similar to plastic injection molding High performance hardness and density Cost reduction through elimination of process steps. MIMforms Custom Metal Injection Molding. MIMforms offers a full range of manufacturing services, enabling the delivery of complete and tested components.
Metal injection molding (MIM) is a metalworking process by which finely-powdered metal is mixed with a measured amount of binder material to comprise a feedstock capable of being handled by plastic processing equipment through a process known as injection mold forming. Subsequent conditioning operations are performed on the molded shape, where the binder material is removed and the metal particles are coalesced into the desired state for the metal alloy. Metal Injection Molding market has grown from $382 million USD in 2004 to $985 million USD in 2009. Further the market is estimated to be about $1.5 billion USD in 2012 by BCC Research, with continued double digit growth expected through 2019
The process is called metal injection molding (MIM), or sometimes powder injection molding (PIM), and it can produce intricate parts in a wide range of metals, including steel, stainless steel, and even high-temperature alloys. MIM can also make it possible to replace an assembly of two or more parts with a single MIM part, eliminating the cost of assembling those parts. From powder to part. MIM metal powder is very fine, with particles 20 microns (about 0.0008″) in size or smaller.
Match the roofing on the covered porch with the main roof. Determine the minimum slope of the roof based on the roofing material. The minimum pitch for shingles is 1:6, which is equivalent to 4 inches rise to 24 inches run. The minimum pitch for a standing seam metal roof is 1:4, or 3 inches rise to 12 inches run. The minimum pitch for a roof is 1/4:12, which translates to 1/4 inch rise to 12 inches of run. However, you can only use this pitch with built-up roofing or specialized synthetic roofing.
What is powdered metal injection molding? Metal Injection Molding (MIM), sometimes called Powdered Injection Molding (PIM), is an advance metal forming technique that uses injection molding equipment for manufacturing both simple and complex metal parts to tight tolerances. As part of our Metal Injection Molding (MIM) process, we offer low-cost prototyping, an experienced process and metallurgical team, and tool transfers from other MIM producers.
MIM (Metal Injection Molding) is a manufacturing technology that combines the shape making complexity of Plastic Injection Molding with the material flexibility of Powder Metallurgy. 
Metal Injection Molding is industrially beneficial technology for allowing engineers to create complex shaped tiny metal parts which are complicated to manufacture with conventional lathe, CNC, VMC, EDM, spark machining method in almost all kinds of ferrous and non ferrous metal alloys. 