deadbeat noun [C]. › a ​person who is not ​willing to ​work, does not ​behave in a ​responsible way, and does not ​fit into ​ordinary ​society: He's a ​real deadbeat who's never had a ​proper ​job. [as form of address] Come off it, deadbeat, you're never going to get ​anywhere. by Kate Woodford, As part of our occasional series on idioms used in or in relation to business, we look today at the important area of making projects happen – getting projects started, making progress with those projects and, as sometimes happens, failing to make progress.
Synonyms and Antonyms of DEADBEAT. Synonyms couch potato, deadbeat, do-nothing, drone, idler, layabout, loafer, lotus-eater, slouch, slug, slugabed, sluggard. 
deadbeat dad-a father who willfully defaults on his obligation to provide financial support for his offspring. deadbeat, defaulter-someone who fails to meet a financial obligation. 
deadbeat noun [C]. › a ​person who ​tries to ​avoid ​paying ​money that they ​owe: I ​keep reminding my ​mortgage ​company that I'm not a deadbeat. deadbeat adjective [before noun] › The water ​company has threatened to ​shut off the ​supply to deadbeat ​customers who ​refuse to ​pay their ​bills. by Kate Woodford, As part of our occasional series on idioms used in or in relation to business, we look today at the important area of making projects happen – getting projects started, making progress with those projects and, as sometimes happens, failing to make progress.
Top 10 unbelievable historical concurrencies. Deadbeat dad is the gender-specific slang term used mainly in the United States and Canada to describe a father who willfully evades a court order to provide financial support for his children. 
dead•beat. 1. a person who avoids paying debts. 2. a sponger. 3. (of the indicator of an electric meter and the like) coming to a stop with little or no oscillation. 4. being a parent who neglects parental responsibilities, esp. one who does not pay child support: deadbeat dads. dead·beat 1. n. 1. One who does not pay one's debts. 2. A lazy person; a loafer. adj. Not fulfilling one's obligations or paying one's debts: a deadbeat dad.
New study suggests they give stuff rather than money. Tap to read full story. ‘No Alcohol’ During Pregnancy Is Just Another Shame Battle in the Mommy Wars Girl Scouts’ “Girl Expert” on How Dads Should Treat Daughters 9 Ways You Can Help Your Kids Cope With Being Bullied. 
deadbeat. n. 1. (Sociology) a lazy or socially undesirable person. 2. a. a person who makes a habit of avoiding or evading his or her responsibilities or debts. dead·beat 1. n. 1. One who does not pay one's debts. 2. A lazy person; a loafer. adj. Not fulfilling one's obligations or paying one's debts: a deadbeat dad.
2 (Of a clock escapement or other mechanism) without recoil. Example sentences. 1  Imagine the escapement-wheel of a common dead-beat clock to be mounted on a collar fitting easily upon a shaft, instead of being rigidly attached to it. More example sentences. 1  Putting that aside for a moment, let's look at why the stated reason for this bill-discouraging deadbeats from skimping on consumer debt-makes no sense. 2  If there's one thing the credit card associations want it's tough bankruptcy legislation which holds deadbeats responsible for consumer debt.