Simply: the ribosomes, with protein, form rRNA which assemble other proteins together. The ER packages the proteins and sends them to the Golgi apparatus. The Golgi apparatus modifies proteins and either releases them into the cell in endosomes or packages them and sends them out of the cell where the proteins perform their functions. Source(s): Biology major. Jessica · 8 years ago. The mRNA leaves the nucleus and randomly moves to a ribosome on the ER (endoplasmic reticulum) Here tRNA brings amino acids (the building blocks of proteins) to the ribsome and they of match up with the code on the mRNA. This forms a long strand of amino acids called a polypeptide chain
Golgi Apparatus-The function of the Golgi apparatus is to modify, sort, and package proteins and other materials from the endoplasmic reticulum for storage in the cell or secretion outside the cell. As the endoplasmic reticulum produces proteins due to the presence of ribosomes inside, the immature proteins from the ER move to Golgi body to be sorted, labelled and packaged into vessicles.
A protein called coat protein II (COPII; green) forms vesicles that transport from the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) to the Golgi. A different protein called coat protein I (COPI; red) forms vesicles for transport in the other direction, from the Golgi to the ER. Here, a transport vesicle from the Golgi or elsewhere in the cell merges its membrane with the plasma membrane and releases its contents. In this way, membranes are continually recycled and reused for different purposes throughout the cell. Membrane transport also occurs between the endoplasmic reticulum and
The ER, Golgi apparatus, and lysosomes are all members of a network of membranes, but they are not continuous with one another. Therefore, the membrane lipids and proteins that are synthesized in the ER must be transported through the network to their final destination in membrane-bound vesicles. Here, a transport vesicle from the Golgi or elsewhere in the cell merges its membrane with the plasma membrane and releases its contents. In this way, membranes are continually recycled and reused for different purposes throughout the cell. Membrane transport also occurs between the endoplasmic reticulum and the Golgi.
22.Explain how the ribosomes, endoplasmic, reticulum, and Golgi apparatus function together in protein synthesis. Add your answer. Source. Submit Cancel. I think this question violates the Community Guidelines. I think this question violates the Terms of Service. 
Rough ER is found throughout the cell but the density is higher near the nucleus and the Golgi apparatus. Ribosomes on the rough endoplasmic reticulum are called ‘membrane bound’ and are responsible for the assembly of many proteins. This process is called translation. Certain cells of the pancreas and digestive tract produce a high volume of protein as enzymes. There are two types of endoplasmic reticulum: rough endoplasmic reticulum (rough ER) and smooth endoplasmic reticulum (smooth ER). Both types are present in plant and animal cells. The two types of ER are separate entities and are not joined together.
Today, scientists know that the endomembrane system includes the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), Golgi apparatus, and lysosomes. Vesicles also allow the exchange of membrane components with a cell's plasma membrane. Membranes and their constituent proteins are assembled in the ER. Here, a transport vesicle from the Golgi or elsewhere in the cell merges its membrane with the plasma membrane and releases its contents. In this way, membranes are continually recycled and reused for different purposes throughout the cell. Membrane transport also occurs between the endoplasmic reticulum and the Golgi.
Golgi Apparatus-The function of the Golgi apparatus is to modify, sort, and package proteins and other materials from the endoplasmic reticulum for storage in the cell or secretion outside the cell. 3.proteins and fats of Endoplasmic Reticulum helps in formation of cell membrane by the process called membrane bio genesis. Golgi apparatus- 1. it packs, stores and transports materials produced in a cell. 2. it form complex sugars.