Contracts Unconscionability Law & Legal Definition. Unconscionable in legal terms refers to a contract or bargain which is so unfair to a party that no reasonable or informed person would agree to it. In a suit for breach of contract, a court will not enforce an unconscionable contract
An unconscionable contract is unenforceable. It is immaterial whether a waiver is explicit or implicit. Procedural unconscionability also gives rise to an unconscionable contract if one of the parties is in a vastly superior bargaining position. An unconscionable contract may also contain substantive unconscionability if the terms of the contract are excessively harsh or would be oppressive to implement. 
For the defense of unconscionability to apply, the contract has to have been unconscionable at the time that it was made; later circumstances that make the contract extremely one-sided are irrelevant. Unconscionable conduct is also found in acts of fraud and deceit, where the deliberate misrepresentation of fact deprives someone of a valuable possession. When a party takes unconscionable advantage of another, the action may be treated as criminal fraud or the civil action of deceit.
(2) When it is claimed or appears to the court that the contract or any clause thereof may be unconscionable the parties shall be afforded a reasonable opportunity to present evidence as to its commercial setting, purpose and effect to aid the court in making the determination. 
A typical example of an unconscionable contract is where one party is an experienced dealer in a type of business, while the other party is an average consumer. Suppose that the business dealer requires the consumer to sign a contract. An unconscionable contract is not the same as an illegal contract. An illegal contract is one that is against the law because the subject matter of the contract is illegal. An example of this is a contract that seeks to address illegal gambling matters
Unconscionability (known as unconscionable dealing/conduct in Australia) is a doctrine in contract law that describes terms that are so extremely unjust, or overwhelmingly one-sided in favor of the party who has the superior bargaining power, that they are contrary to good conscience. Unconscionable conduct is also found in acts of fraud and deceit, where the deliberate misrepresentation of fact deprives someone of a valuable possession. When a party takes unconscionable advantage of another, the action may be treated as criminal fraud or the civil action of deceit.
A defense against the enforcement of a contract or portion of a contract. If a contract is unfair or oppressive to one party in a way that suggests abuses during its formation, a court may find it unconscionable and refuse to enforce it. A contract is most likely to be found unconscionable if both unfair bargaining and unfair substantive terms are shown.
An unconscionable contract is one that is so one-sided that it is unfair to one party and therefore unenforceable under law. It is a type of contract that leaves one party with no real, meaningful choice, usually due to major differences in bargaining power between the parties. An unconscionable contract is not the same as an illegal contract. An illegal contract is one that is against the law because the subject matter of the contract is illegal. An example of this is a contract that seeks to address illegal gambling matter
Unconscionable. Unusually harsh and shocking to the conscience; that which is so grossly unfair that a court will proscribe it. When a court uses the word unconscionable to describe conduct, it means that the conduct does not conform to the dictates of conscience. In addition, when something is judged unconscionable, a court will refuse to allow the perpetrator of the conduct to benefit. In contract law an unconscionable contract is one that is unjust or extremely one-sided in favor of the person who has the superior bargaining power.