Built to host the 1999 Rugby World Cup, Millennium Stadium is Wales' national stadium and is the home stadium of Wales' national rugby union team. Bligh Lobb Sports Architecture designed it.
The Millennium Stadium is located in Cardiff, the capital city of Wales. The stadium, constructed on a site previously occupied by National Stadium of Wales, was built to host the 1999 Rugby World Cup with Wales as the main host of the event.
The Millennium Stadium is located in the centre of Cardiff almost opposite Cardiff Central Rail station. If arriving by car, make your way to the centre of Cardiff and find a parking place, which will almost always be at walking distance from the stadium. Address: Millennium Stadium, Westgate Street, Cardiff, CF10 1NS.
The stadium is owned by Millennium Stadium Plc, which is a subsidiary of Welsh Rugby Union and the Cardiff County Council, was designed by Bligh Lobb Sports Architecture (now known as Populous). It is the home stadium of the Wales National Rugby Union Team. The Millennium Stadium was built at a cost of $194.7m. The open retractable roof is perhaps the most significant feature of the stadium, and it is the largest and first of its kind in the United Kingdom.
The Millennium Stadium is presently the National Stadium of Wales. The Millennium Stadium has a 74,500 capacity. The stadium is coloured in Orion, Poppy Red, Aquarius and Pegasus, similar to the British national flag. The stadium was built to host the 1999 Rugby World Cup.
About Millennium Stadium. Built to host the 1999 Rugby World Cup, Millennium Stadium is Wales' national stadium and is the home stadium of Wales' national rugby union team. Bligh Lobb Sports Architecture designed it.
Construction of the Millennium Stadium began in 1997 and was completed in 1999 at a total cost of £114 million. The first match played at the stadium was a rugby friendly between Wales and South Africa. The first football match was a friendly between the Welsh and Finnish national teams in March 2000.