There's a global divide on the age-old question as to whether eggs should be stored in the fridge or kept at room temperature: Americans generally tend to store their eggs in the refrigerator to increase shelf life and to prevent bacterial contamination. The age-old debate of whether eggs need to be refrigerated or stored at room temperature has been cracked by British scientists.
How long can hard-boiled eggs stay out at room temperature? The Easter basket looks empty without them. Your friendly U.S. Department of Agriculture says you can keep those colorful eggs in the Easter basket or out for an Easter egg hunt for absolutely as long as you like  as long as it's not more than two hours. Otherwise, it says, they should be kept in the refrigerator
How long does it take an egg to come to room temperature?     Just to be safe I would have to say leave it in a room temperature area; away from any windows or heaters that can affect the temperature of the egg; for about 6 o … r 7 hours at the least. If you are in a time span then you could probably go with just 2 or 3 hours instead.  . 5 people found this useful.
How to bring eggs to room temperature. February 24, 2011 in Baking, How-To's and Tips 13 Comments. Many recipes call for room temperature or softened butter because it is easier to incorporate into a cake batter or cookie dough than rock hard, cold butter is. Just 5 or 10 minutes in a bowl full of warm water – hot water may cause the egg shells to crack – will take the chill off of your eggs. Recipes that call for egg whites alone often call for them to be at room temperature. Eggs are, however, much easier to separate when they are cold.
To warm up just your egg whites or egg yolks, separate the eggs when cold and place the whites and yolks in small bowls. Place these bowls into slightly larger bowls full of warm water and allow them to sit for 5-10 minutes (or simply let them sit, covered, at room temperature for 30-60 minutes before using). Leftover egg whites or egg yolks can be stored for later use. Just 5 or 10 minutes in a bowl full of warm water – hot water may cause the egg shells to crack – will take the chill off of your eggs. Recipes that call for egg whites alone often call for them to be at room temperature. Eggs are, however, much easier to separate when they are cold.
Cooked eggs can sit out at room temperature for about the length of  the day. The eggs will need to be refrigerated if they will not be  eaten in 24 hours. Cooked pasta should not be left out at room temperature for more  than 2 to 3 hours. Any food that is left out at room temperature  after cooking can be dangerous at any tim … e past the 4 hour mark.
A different recommendation   Four hours at room temperature is too long. Potentially hazardous food should not be kept out for more than 2 hours. … And if the ambient temperature is around 90°F, cut that time to 1 hour. Just to be safe I would have to say leave it in a room temperature area; away from any windows or heaters that can affect the temperature of the egg; for about 6 o … r 7 hours at the least. If you are in a time span then you could probably go with just 2 or 3 hours instead.  . 5 people found this useful.
With the concern about Salmonella, eggs gathered from laying hens should be refrigerated as soon as possible. After eggs are refrigerated, they need to stay that way. A cold egg left out at room temperature can sweat, facilitating the growth of bacteria. Refrigerated eggs should not be left out more than 2 hours. Source(s): http://www.fsis.usda.gov/Fact_Sheets/Foc... CheetosRock · 9 years ago. Then keep them in a basement or a dark cool dry cellar. The eggs need to be turned once a week. Just keep them in an old egg carton and turn them over once a week. Mother Earth News did a test years ago and I believe they kept eggs for 6 months in a cellar just that way.
After eggs are refrigerated, they need to stay that way. A cold egg left out at room temperature can sweat, facilitating the movement of bacteria into the egg and increasing the growth of bacteria. Refrigerated eggs should not be left out more than 2 hours.