The Geography of Argentina. Sitting in the southern hemisphere, Argentina is around 3,700 km long from north to south, and 1,400 km from east to west. People often divide the country into four parts as follows:
Several islands off the Asian continental mainland are also in the Southern Hemisphere. Due to the tilt of Earth's rotation relative to the Sun and the ecliptic plane, summer is from December to March and winter is from June to September. Southern Hemisphere climates tend to be slightly milder than those at similar latitudes in the Northern Hemisphere, except in the Antarctic which is colder than the Arctic. This is because the Southern Hemisphere has significantly more ocean and much less land; water heats up and cools down more slowly than land.
Brazil is located in the western, northern and southern hemispheres. The Equator and the Tropic of Capricorn pass through Brazil. It covers almost 50 percent of South America. America (South) South America is the continent on which Brazil is located. It's the largest country in South America. On the east Brazil is bounded by the Atlantic Ocean. To the north, Brazil is bordered by French Guiana, Guyana, Suriname, and Venezuela. To the northwest, Colombia borders Brazil.
By Globerover on. in Argentina. Argentina, located in the Southern hemisphere, is a South American country, second in size in the continent to Brazil and eighth in the world. Sitting in the southern hemisphere, Argentina is around 3,700 km long from north to south, and 1,400 km from east to west. People often divide the country into four parts as follows:
It's in the Atlantic Ocean side of the continent. And it … borders all the other countries in South America, except for Equador and Chile. America (South) South America is the continent on which Brazil is located. It's the largest country in South America. On the east Brazil is bounded by the Atlantic Ocean. To the north, Brazil is bordered by French Guiana, Guyana, Suriname, and Venezuela. To the northwest, Colombia borders Brazil.
The southern temperate zone, a subsection of the Southern Hemisphere, is nearly all oceanic. This zone includes all of Uruguay, Lesotho, Swaziland, and New Zealand; most of Chile, Argentina, South Africa, and Australia; and parts of Paraguay, Brazil, Namibia, Botswana, Mozambique, and Madagascar. Southern Hemisphere climates tend to be slightly milder than those at similar latitudes in the Northern Hemisphere, except in the Antarctic which is colder than the Arctic. This is because the Southern Hemisphere has significantly more ocean and much less land; water heats up and cools down more slowly than land.
Brazil is located in the western, northern and southern hemispheres. The Equator and the Tropic of Capricorn pass through Brazil. It covers almost 50 percent of South America. … The longitude and latitude of Brazil are 10 degrees South and 55 degrees West.    The land is divided into four hemispheres the north, south, east (east) and west (West). As the equator runs through our country, one part is in the northern hemisphere while the other south. Now with regard to the east and west, our territory is located entirely on the west side. So Brazil is located in the western hemisphere (west) and north and south.
The majority of Earth's population and its largest cities are in the Northern Hemisphere, although there are large cities such as Lima, Peru, Cape Town, South Africa, Santiago, Chile, and Auckland, New Zealand. The Coriolis Effect and the Southern Hemisphere. An important component of physical geography in the Southern Hemisphere is the Coriolis Effect and the specific direction that objects are deflected in Earth's southern half. In the southern hemisphere any object moving over the Earth's surface deflects to the left.
As the equator runs through our country, one part is in the northern hemisphere while the other south. Now with regard to the east and west, our territory is located entirely on the west side. So Brazil is located in the western hemisphere (west) and north and south. America (South) South America is the continent on which Brazil is located. It's the largest country in South America. On the east Brazil is bounded by the Atlantic Ocean. To the north, Brazil is bordered by French Guiana, Guyana, Suriname, and Venezuela. To the northwest, Colombia borders Brazil.