U.S. Visas. Citizens of most foreign countries require a visa to enter the United States. Visas are issued at U.S. consulates and embassies abroad, and allow the individual to travel to a U.S. port of entry and request permission to enter the country. The Visa Waiver Program enables citizens of 37 countries to travel to the United States for tourism or business for stays of 90 days or less without obtaining a visa. An ESTA Application is also required while traveling under the Visa Waiver Program.
Below is a long list of countries that holders of valid* US passports can travel to, either without a visa, where a visa on arrival will be issued for a fee, (possibly photos required) or where free entry is given for a fixed period. This list is intended as a guide. *Uzbekistan: All US visitors REQUIRE a visa for Uzbekistan. Vanuatu: Maximum stay of 30 days. Vatican City: Enter via Italy Venezuela: Visa not required but tourist card must be obtained on aircraft. Maximum stay of 90 days.
If you stay in the U.S. on the basis of a United States Permanent Resident Card -- or USCIS Form I-551, popularly known as the Green Card -- your ability to travel to Europe without a visa will depend on the country that has issued your passport. If you do need a Schengen visa, apply to the main country of your visit, or the first one you'll enter. If you intend to stay for more than 90 days, you will need separate visas for all visited countries.
* China now has 72-hour (3-day) visa-free entry for tourists at Beijing Airport. US (and 44 other countries) citizens holding third country visas and onward flight tickets can apply for a transit without visa (TWOV). *Uzbekistan: All US visitors REQUIRE a visa for Uzbekistan. Vanuatu: Maximum stay of 30 days. Vatican City: Enter via Italy Venezuela: Visa not required but tourist card must be obtained on aircraft. Maximum stay of 90 days.
The Visa Waiver Program permits citizens of participating countries* to travel to the United States for business or tourism for stays of up to 90 days without a visa. Eligible citizens or nationals from all Visa Waiver Program countries must obtain approval through ESTA prior to traveling to the United States under the Visa Waiver Program. Visa Waiver Program travelers are encouraged to apply for authorization as soon as they begin to plan a trip to the United States.
The Visa Waiver Program (VWP) enables nationals of certain countries to travel to the United States for tourism or business for stays of 90 days or less without obtaining a visa, as long as they meet specific requirements. You will not be allowed to travel to the United States under the Visa Waiver Program (VWP) on a non machine-readable passport. You will need to obtain a visa OR the new e-passport. Additional information can be found at: Nonimmigrant visas .
Passport Requirements. All travelers to the United States under the Visa Waiver Program (including infants and children) must possess a valid machine-readable passport issued by one of the 38 Visa Waiver Program countries. Eligible citizens or nationals from all Visa Waiver Program countries must obtain approval through ESTA prior to traveling to the United States under the Visa Waiver Program. Visa Waiver Program travelers are encouraged to apply for authorization as soon as they begin to plan a trip to the United States.
1 They can be eligible to visit the United States without a visa under the Visa Waiver Program if they are going for business, tourism or transit (during 90 days more or less). 2  Their passport has an integrated chip. 
To enter the United States of America, a passport valid for the duration of stay is required by nationals in the chart above. Passport note : All travellers entering the USA under the Visa Waiver Program require individual machine-readable passports. Validity : Visas may be used for travel to the USA until the date of expiry as long as presented with a valid passport. Some visas are valid for multiple entries. The length of stay in the USA is determined by US immigration officials at the time of entry.