You can focus your search to emigration records dating from that era. Emigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival and destination. Census records can tell you a lot of little known facts about your Romilly ancestors, such as occupation. Occupation can tell you about your ancestors social and economic status. The information for this chart came from the U.S. Immigration Collection at Ancestry. You can find out where the majority of the Romilly families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records.
[ syll. ro-mil-ly, rom-i- lly ] The baby girl name Romilly is pronounced as RAHM IY LLiy †. Romilly has its origins in the Latin language. The name means 'wanderer'. A derivative of Romilly is the name Romille. Romilly is irregularly used as a baby girl name. It is not ranked within the top 1000. Baby names that sound like Romilly include Rosenelle (English), Ragnalle, Richmal (English), Romelle, and Romille
Meanings and history of the name Romilly: | Edit. From a French place name and later use as an English surname. The name Romelia is of Hebrew origin and means God's beloved one. I'm not sure if the names are related or not but Romilly sounds like it could be a variant of Romelia so that is the definition I plan to apply to it. Personal experiences with the name Romilly: | Edit. The only Romilly I know is male. In the UK Romilly is a gender neutral name. I haven't checked to see if you have it in the male list too, but plan to do that next! My name is Romilly & Im female...I totaly love my name
Originally a male name springing from the Roman twin Romulus, this attractively dainty name was introduced to the English-speaking world by painter Augustus John who used it for his son. Romilly John became Admiral of the Fleet in England. A French surname from the twelfth century on, it's more recently and more appropriately been heard as a girls' name; Emma Thompson, for example, used Romilly as her daughter Gaia 's middle name. The logical nickname would be Romy, which is very much in style
Here's what we do know. Romilly (pronounced RAH-mi-lee) is the name of several small towns in north central France. Romilly is also a district in Barry, the town in Wales, and while there you apparently have to watch out for the local goblins. None of these places really seem to have much of a claim to fame. I'm not sure if this name will appeal to many Neo-Pagans. I would think that most of use would prefer names with a clear history or meaning. For magickal names, it's pretty much a requirement. If that's not a prerogative, Romilly is a unique option.
Meaning & History. Originally denoted a person who came from any of the various places in northern France called Romilly or Remilly, or from Romiley in England. 
Click on a place to view Romilly immigration records. The information for this chart came from the U.S. Immigration Collection at Ancestry. You can find out where the majority of the Romilly families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records.