The Elimination/Reintegration Diet. While testing can help identify gluten sensitivity, the only way you will know if this is really a problem for you is to eliminate all gluten for a short period of time (2 to 4 weeks) and see how you feel.
More than 55 diseases have been linked to gluten, the protein found in wheat, rye, and barley. It's estimated that 99% of the people who have either gluten intolerance or celiac disease are never diagnosed. It is also estimated that as much as 15% of the US population is gluten intolerant.
Gluten is a protein found naturally in wheat, rye, and barley. Gluten intolerance is an adverse reaction to gluten. Symptoms of gluten intolerance may be varied and come on slowly over a period of time, thus making it hard to pinpoint, like many food intolerances.
THERE ARE TWO WAYS TO TELL if you are gluten intolerant: an elimination/reintegration diet and blood tests. But first, let’s talk about what gluten is and why it’s a problem for so many people. Gluten is a protein found in wheat, barley, rye, spelt, kamut, and oats.
SHARES. More than 55 diseases have been linked to gluten, the protein found in wheat, rye, and barley. It's estimated that 99% of the people who have either gluten intolerance or celiac disease are never diagnosed. It is also estimated that as much as 15% of the US population is gluten intolerant.
However, coeliac disease is not an allergy or an intolerance to gluten. It is an autoimmune condition where the immune system mistakes substances found inside gluten as a threat to the body and attacks them. Gluten is a protein found in wheat, rye and barley that damages the intestine of people with coeliac disease.
Identify foods containing gluten and eliminate all of them from your diet. If you have a gluten sensitivity any symptoms should resolve after you discontinue eating gluten containing foods. 1  Wheat and wheat products contain gluten. 2  Also, other grains, such as barley and rye
A note of caution: If after taking this quiz you think you may have celiac disease, talk with your doctor about getting the appropriate tests to rule it out, since many of the symptoms are the same as the ones associated with gluten sensitivity (which is a less-severe condition than celiac disease).