From short to long: Economies of scale and the long-run average total cost curve. Published by Jason Welker under Cost-minimization, Costs of production, Economies of scale, Law of diminishing returns. Share. Look closely at the two cost curves below: The curve on the left is a firm’s short-run average total cost curve. The one on the right represents a firm’s long-run average total cost curv
In the short run, the shape of the average total cost curve (ATC) is U-shaped. The, short run average cost curve falls in the beginning, reaches a minimum and then begins to rise. The reasons for the average cost to fall in the beginning of production are that the fixed factors of a firm remain the same. The change only takes place in the variable factors such as raw material, labor, etc.
Average total cost, when combined with price, determines per unit profit or loss that a profit-maximizing firm receives from short-run production. If price is greater than average total cost, then the firm receives positive economic profit per unit. PERFECT COMPETITION, LOSS MINIMIZATION: A perfectly competitive firm is presumed to produce the quantity of output that minimizes economic losses, if price is greater than average variable cost but less than average total cost. This is one of three short-run production alternatives facing a firm.
The long-run average total cost curve envelopes the set of U-shaped short-run average total cost curves corresponding to different plant sizes. In the long run, a firm can select the optimal plant size for the quantity it wishes to produce. The firm selects the plant size that gives the lowest average total cost. 
Summary. The average variable cost is a firm's variable cost per unit of output. Most AVC functions will start decreasing and then at one point, begin to increase. A firm will chose to shut down production in the short run if the market price is less than the average variable cost of production. Definition. The Average Variable Cost (AVC) is the total variable cost per unit of output. This is found by dividing Total Variable Cost (TVC) by total output (Q). Total Variable Cost (TVC) is all the costs that vary with output, such as materials and labor.
When compared with price (per unit revenue), average total cost (ATC) indicates the per unit profitability of a profit-maximizing firm. Average total cost is one of three average cost concepts important to short-run production analysis. PERFECT COMPETITION, LOSS MINIMIZATION: A perfectly competitive firm is presumed to produce the quantity of output that minimizes economic losses, if price is greater than average variable cost but less than average total cost. This is one of three short-run production alternatives facing a firm.
Economic Definition of long-run average cost curve. Offline Version: PDF. Term long-run average cost curve Definition: A curve depicting the per unit cost of producing a good or service in the long run when all inputs are variable. The long-run average cost curve (usually abbreviated LRAC) can be derived in two ways. 
DEFINITION of 'Long-Run Average Total Cost-LRATC'. A business metric that represents the average cost per unit of output over the long run, where all inputs are considered to be variable. Long-term unit costs are almost always less than short-term unit costs because in a long-term time frame, companies have the flexibility to change big components of their operations, such as factories, to achieve optimal efficiency.