Advertisement. Mountain Dew this week unveiled a new flavor, White Out, which beat out two other flavors—Typhoon and Distortion—in stage two of the beverage brand’s digital initiative. (White Out won with 44 percent of the votes, and Typhoon and Distortion had 40 and 16 percent, respectively, per PepsiCo.) Consumers could vote online, through DEWmocracy.com, or they could text [their choice] in. There was also a huge voting push as well on [Microsoft’s] Xbox Live.
AMP Energy is an energy drink distributed by PepsiCo under the Mountain Dew brand. Launched in 2001, AMP was originally known as Mountain Dew AMP. From 2007 to 2008, several additional flavors of AMP were introduced. In 2012, AMP labeling and ingredients changed, as did the flavor and appeal, according to fans. Mountain Dew Energy was released in Ireland in April 2011. Produced in a lemon and lime flavor, it has a higher caffeine content than Mountain Dew sold in the U.S., at 18 mg per 100ml, versus 91 mg per 20 fl oz in the U.S. version (which is ~15.385 mg per 100ml).
Typhoon was a Mountain Dew flavor, and a contestant in the second DEWmocracy promotion. Its tagline was  Punch of Tropical DEW with other natural flavors while its diet version's planned tagline was Punch of Tropical diet DEW with other natural flavors.. Beginning September 26, 2013, select Taco Bell locations began offering Mountain Dew Typhoon Freeze, an icy variant of Typhoon similar to the Baja Blast Freeze and the restaurant's pre-existing Frutista Freeze line.
In spring 2014, Mountain Dew began distributing its Baja Blast flavor in standard 12 ounce cans, 20 ounce bottles and 24 ounce cans for sale at supermarkets and retail businesses in the US. The new retail product bears the Taco Bell logo. Mountain Dew Energy was released in Ireland in April 2011. Produced in a lemon and lime flavor, it has a higher caffeine content than Mountain Dew sold in the U.S., at 18 mg per 100ml, versus 91 mg per 20 fl oz in the U.S. version (which is ~15.385 mg per 100ml).
In July 2009 Mountain Dew launched a social media-heavy initiative — phase one of DEWmocracy 2 — and put out a call to action to get fans of the brand to use social media to tell Mountain Dew why they should be selected to help the company craft a new flavor. Introducing the New Flavors. Without further ado, here are the three new Mountain Dew flavors, information on their supporting nations and the fan-approved/co-created advertisements. The ads already appear online on Dewmocracy.com, but they'll make their way to your television set beginning April 26.
Main article: DEWmocracy. Typhoon was first tested alongside multiple other new flavors in a tour that stopped in 17 American cities in 2009. Taste testers were to give their input, and at the end of the tour, three flavor finalists were chosen. During these tests, Typhoon (flavor #509), was known as Cyclone. Beginning September 26, 2013, select Taco Bell locations began offering Mountain Dew Typhoon Freeze, an icy variant of Typhoon similar to the Baja Blast Freeze and the restaurant's pre-existing Frutista Freeze line.
By Jennifer Van Grove. Pepsi Co. brand Mountain Dew has been using its social media fan base to create, brand and market three experimental new flavors that are hitting shelves across the United States today. Introducing the New Flavors. Without further ado, here are the three new Mountain Dew flavors, information on their supporting nations and the fan-approved/co-created advertisements. The ads already appear online on Dewmocracy.com, but they'll make their way to your television set beginning April 26.
Mountain Dew (currently stylized as Mtn Dew in the United States) is a carbonated soft drink brand produced and owned by PepsiCo. The original formula was invented in 1940 by Tennessee beverage bottlers Barney and Ally Hartman. A revised formula was created by Bill Bridgforth in 1958. Mountain Dew Energy was released in Ireland in April 2011. Produced in a lemon and lime flavor, it has a higher caffeine content than Mountain Dew sold in the U.S., at 18 mg per 100ml, versus 91 mg per 20 fl oz in the U.S. version (which is ~15.385 mg per 100ml).