Ethiopia Geography. A major portion of Ethiopia lies on the Horn of Africa, which is the easternmost part of the African landmass. Its topography ranges from deserts along its eastern border, the Choke and Mandebo mountains ranges in its central core, and tropical forests in the southern reaches. Lake Tana in the north is the source of the Blue Nile. The highest point of Ethiopia is Ras Dejen at 14,928 ft (4,550 m); the lowest point of the country is the Afar Depression at −410 ft (-125 m).
Geography. Ethiopia is situated in northeast Africa, in the area known as 'The Horn of Africa'. It is bordered by Eritrea, Sudan, South Sudan, Kenya, Somalia, the self-proclaimed separatist territory of Somaliland, and Djibouti. The best time to visit Ethiopia is between January and March when clear, sunny days bring regular average daily temperatures of 25°C (77°F). This is Ethiopia's busiest time to visit, with wildlife spotting at its peak and the festivals of Timkat and Leddet drawing huge crowds.
Ethiopia is located in the Horn of Africa. It is bordered by Eritrea to the north, Djibouti and Somalia to the east, Sudan and South Sudan to the west, and Kenya to the south. Ethiopia has a high central plateau that varies from 1,290 to 3,000 m (4,232 to 9,843 ft) above sea level, with the highest mountain reaching 4,533 m (14,872 ft). The civet is found in many parts of Ethiopia, but chiefly in the Galla regions. Squirrels and hares are numerous, as are several kinds of monkeys, notably the guereza, gelada, guenon and dog-faced baboon. They range from the tropical lowlands to heights of 3,000 m (9,843 ft).
Population: 91,195,675. The Kingdom of Ethiopia is one of the oldest kingdoms in the world and certainly the oldest independent country in Africa. Ancient Ethiopia is mentioned in Greek history as well as Hebrew history. Ethiopia managed to avoid colonization from Europe unlike most other African areas and countries. 
The Abay — that is, the upper course of the Blue Nile — has its source near Mount Denguiza in the Choqa mountains, around 11°0′N 37°0′E﻿ / ﻿11.000°N 37.000°E﻿ / 11.000; 37.000. It first flows for 110 km (68.4 mi) nearly due north to the south shore of Lake Tana. The civet is found in many parts of Ethiopia, but chiefly in the Galla regions. Squirrels and hares are numerous, as are several kinds of monkeys, notably the guereza, gelada, guenon and dog-faced baboon. They range from the tropical lowlands to heights of 3,000 m (9,843 ft).
Description: The Physical Map of Ethiopia showing major geographical features like elevations, mountain ranges, deserts, seas, lakes, plateaus, peninsulas, rivers, plains, landforms and other topographic features. Most of the country is sloped from the north to the west and that is where most of the rivers flow. The rivers of Ethiopia make up for 85% of the water present in the River Nile. The three main rivers are the Tekeze up north, Sobat down south and Abay right in the center. Political Map of Ethiopia.
Map. Ethiopia is a landlocked country in the northeast African region known as the Horn of Africa. The country has a high central plateau, with some mountains reaching more than 4,000 meters (13,000 feet). The Great Rift Valley splits the plateau diagonally. Fast Facts. Ethiopia is a landlocked country in the northeast African region known as the Horn of Africa. The country has a high central plateau, with some mountains reaching more than 4,000 meters (13,000 feet). The Great Rift Valley splits the plateau diagonally.
Geography. Ethiopia is in east-central Africa, bordered on the west by the Sudan, the east by Somalia and Djibouti, the south by Kenya, and the northeast by Eritrea. It has several high mountains, the highest of which is Ras Dashan at 15,158 ft (4,620 m). Originally called Abyssinia, Ethiopia is sub-Saharan Africa's oldest state, and its Solomonic dynasty claims descent from King Menelik I, traditionally believed to have been the son of the queen of Sheba and King Solomon.