Online Program. Fitness organizations, such as the International Sports Sciences Association, offer an online personal training program for those interested in becoming a personal trainer. The program can take from four to six weeks to complete. The time frame is an estimation based on the average time taken for past enrollees. First, obtain the course material from the fitness organization and then schedule to take a test at a testing center close by. This process can take about six to eight weeks depending on the individual’s experience and knowledge, and the scheduling of the exam.
A personal trainer is a professional who assists the public in areas such as nutrition, exercise, goal setting, diets, lifestyle and more. It takes time to learn and develop the necessary education and skills needed to become a certified personal trainer. First, obtain the course material from the fitness organization and then schedule to take a test at a testing center close by. This process can take about six to eight weeks depending on the individual’s experience and knowledge, and the scheduling of the exam.
Testing Center. The most popular method for becoming a personal trainer is by taking a test at a monitored testing center. First, obtain the course material from the fitness organization and then schedule to take a test at a testing center close by. This process can take about six to eight weeks depending on the individual’s experience and knowledge, and the scheduling of the exam.
Long. For those wanting extensive training and personal training certification by national organizations such as the American College of Sport Medicine, associate degrees are available that take a minimum of two years of full-time study. Careers. The Bureau of Labor Statistics predicts that demand for all fitness instructors, including personal trainers, will increase by 24 percent from 2010 to 2020, which is far greater than the 14 percent expected for all jobs in all industries.
Workshop. Another fast way to become a personal trainer is to take an in-person workshop where you will be taught what you need to know to become a personal trainer. These workshops typically last three days, at the end of which you will be required to write an exam to become certified. An average training program takes around 6 months to complete. Many gyms and fitness clubs are now accepting a College or University degree in a fitness related field instead of requiring you to become certified. These take from two years for a diploma to over four for a bachelors degree.
Although it varies, the average online personal trainer course will take between 6 and 12 weeks to complete. Once the course work is complete all you will need to do is pass the exam to obtain your certification. An average training program takes around 6 months to complete. Many gyms and fitness clubs are now accepting a College or University degree in a fitness related field instead of requiring you to become certified. These take from two years for a diploma to over four for a bachelors degree.
Short. Employers typically require that personal trainers have certification in the exercises that they teach, which mandates passing a qualifying exam. For those who want to limit themselves to an exercise or two, certification courses can take as little as a few days. Careers. The Bureau of Labor Statistics predicts that demand for all fitness instructors, including personal trainers, will increase by 24 percent from 2010 to 2020, which is far greater than the 14 percent expected for all jobs in all industries.
Online Course. The most convenient way to become a personal trainer is to take an online course and then take their certification exam. These courses will teach you everything you need to know about becoming a personal trainer and will do an excellent job at preparing you for their exam. An average training program takes around 6 months to complete. Many gyms and fitness clubs are now accepting a College or University degree in a fitness related field instead of requiring you to become certified. These take from two years for a diploma to over four for a bachelors degree.