If actual expenses exceed the per diem rate, receipts are required. Examples include: Travelers can be reimbursed for actual travel expenses up to the per diem rate in either of the following cases: 1  The travel is to a foreign destination and lasts 29 days or less. 2  The travel is to Alaska, Hawaii, or the U.S. possessions and lasts 29 days or less. Maximum reimbursement: Reimbursement for actual expenses for meals and lodging cannot exceed 300% of the maximum per diem established for the location of travel.
He has turned in hisexpense report (lodging receipts attached). Tim would receive $135.00.Monday $30 x ¾ day = $22.50Tuesday-Thursday: $30 x 3 days = $90.00Friday $30 x ¾ day = $22.50 Total Meal Per Diem =$135.00Your deduction would be $67.50 (50% x 135.00) of the meal per diem. The report must include:• The business purpose of the trip, • The date and place of the trip, and. • Receipts for lodging (if using the meals-only per diem rate). The employee must file the expense report with the employer within a reasonable period of time (60 days).
What is the federal per diem rate for my area?Publication 1542, Per Diem Rates provides the rates for all continental U.S. areas.Return to top 3. What does per diem cover? There is a per diem rate for combined lodging and meal costs, and a per diem rate for meal costs alone. An employer mayuse either per diem method for reimbursing employee travel expenses. A self-employed person can only use per diem forthe meal costs.Return to top 4. The report must include:• The business purpose of the trip, • The date and place of the trip, and. • Receipts for lodging (if using the meals-only per diem rate). The employee must file the expense report with the employer within a reasonable period of time (60 days).
The individual must be in travel status. Living allowances can be issued to a foreign national not receiving an honorarium. The allowance is based on the temporary work destination's daily meal per diem rate and is issued for up to 30 days at a time. Additional requests (up to 30 days each) may be submitted. Since meals are based on allowable per diem rates, travelers should pay and claim their OWN meals and receipts are not required. When meals are paid on behalf of others, itemized receipt(s) are required regardless of cost and the completed meals paid for others spreadsheet must be submitted. Instructions:
Faculty/staff do not need to keep receipts for meals and incidentals. 3. For day(s) in which you are hosted by another party, you should not claim per diem for that day(s). 4. Faculty must turn in receipts for all other expenses (taxi for business purposes, cell phone business calls, housing, etc.). 
1 Lodging taxes are not included in the CONUS per diem rate. 2  The Federal Travel Regulation §301-11.27 states that in CONUS, lodging taxes paid by the federal traveler are reimbursable as a miscellaneous travel expense limited to the taxes on reimbursable lodging costs. 1 GSA establishes per diem rates and related policies for federal travelers on official travel only, and cannot address specific inquiries concerning the payment of contractors. 2  If the contractor is on a federal contract, check with the contracting officer to see what is stated in their contract.
Per Diem Rates. You must follow these instructions to view FY2015 and prior years' rates. Select FY2015 or the appropriate year from the drop-down box above the Search By State map, then click directly on the state in the map where you wish to view a rate. 
Receipts: When requesting reimbursement for actual lodging and meal expenses that exceed the per diem rate, an itemized receipt for lodging and individual receipts for meals must accompany the MyTravel claim that you submit to UC San Diego Travel following trip completion. Maximum reimbursement: Reimbursement for actual expenses for meals and lodging cannot exceed 300% of the maximum per diem established for the location of travel.
Reimbursement on a per diem basis is the actual payment of a flat sum to cover meal and incidental expenses each day in lieu of actual costs. With per diem, the traveler is not required to provide receipts for meals and incidentals. One option is for the traveler to use the actual meal expense method for the entire trip. If his/her colleague(s) is claiming the per diem method then the total daily per diem requested by the colleague(s) must be reduced for the meal (15% breakfast, 25% lunch, 60% dinner).