Treatment planning for lung cancer: traditional homogeneous point-dose prescription compared with heterogeneity-corrected dose-volume prescription. Frank SJ, Forster KM, Stevens CW, Cox JD, Komaki R, Liao Z, Tucker S, Wang X, Steadham RE, Brooks C, Starkschall G. RESULTS: The PTV, clinical target volume (CTV), and isocenter calculated by the heterogeneity-corrected volume-dose method were equivalent to those calculated by the traditional homogeneous point-dose method with heterogeneity correction.
Treating lung cancer with alternative treatments is often an effective complementary therapy alongside traditional Western medical approaches of radiation and chemotherapy. 
The fraction of the PTV covered by heterogeneity-corrected volume-dose prescription was significantly greater than the fraction covered by traditional homogeneous point-dose prescription with heterogeneity correction (p = 0.05). RESULTS: The PTV, clinical target volume (CTV), and isocenter calculated by the heterogeneity-corrected volume-dose method were equivalent to those calculated by the traditional homogeneous point-dose method with heterogeneity correction.
Lung cancer overview. More than one in four of all diagnosed cancers involve the lung, and lung cancer remains the most common cancer-related cause of death among American men and women. In 2012, more than 160,000 lung cancer deaths occurred, outnumbering deaths from breast, prostate and colon cancers combined. 
Lung cancer treatment and prognosis will be affected by the stage of cancer at diagnosis. There are various treatment options for lung cancer. Traditional treatments can begin with the removal of part of a lobe, the whole lobe, or the entire lung. Treatment options could also include the use of toxic medicines. Lung cancer is a form of cancer that begins with malignant cell growth in the tissues of the lung. Common causes of lung cancer include long term exposure to tobacco smoke, including second hand smoke, asbestos exposure, and air pollution.
Radiation Therapy. Radiation therapy is one of the three traditional primary forms of medical treatment used to treat your cancer, and for relief of symptoms. It may be used alone or in combination with surgery or chemotherapy, almost anywhere within your body. High-Dose Rate Brachytherapy or HDR Brachytherapy is an innovative form of internal radiotherapy (radiation treatments), and provides a quicker, more effective way to give radiation treatments. HDR Brachytherapy places the radiation inside your tumor, tightly focused within the site of the cancer.
In this section you'll find general information about the types of treatments used against cancer. This includes both traditional therapies (such as surgery, chemotherapy, and radiation therapy), newer forms of treatment (including information on clinical trials), and complementary and alternative therapies. 
Complementary and alternative lung cancer treatments can't cure your cancer. But complementary and alternative treatments can often be combined with your doctor's care to help relieve signs and symptoms. Your doctor can help you weigh the benefits and risks of complementary and alternative treatments. The American College of Chest Physicians recommends people with lung cancer should consider:
PURPOSE: To quantify the differences in doses to target volumes and critical thoracic structures calculated by traditional homogeneous point-dose prescription and heterogeneity-corrected volume-dose prescription. RESULTS: The PTV, clinical target volume (CTV), and isocenter calculated by the heterogeneity-corrected volume-dose method were equivalent to those calculated by the traditional homogeneous point-dose method with heterogeneity correction.
The Drawbacks of Traditional Cancer Treatment. In conventional cancer treatments, the body is bombarded with a large dose of toxicity – drugs and often radiation. This method harms the immune system, which makes it difficult to truly deliver a cancer cure. If you would like to find out more about your cancer treatment options, request your free personal orientation to our services. One of our doctors will be happy to answer all of your questions in person or over the phone.