Traditionally, Hinduism is known as Sanatana Dharma, meaning eternal duty. Many people do not really know what dharma means and why Hinduism is called Sanatana Dharma. Dharma actually means duty. Sanatana Dharma means the eternal duty of God. This Duty of God is shared, not just by Hindus, but by all beings in creation, including gods and the rest of the humanity. Dharma is also used in reference to any set of moral and religious laws and principles that govern religious duty and human conduct upon earth. 
Sanatana Dharma, meaning Eternal or Universal Righteousness is the original name of what is now popularly called Hinduism. Sanatana Dharma comprises of spiritual laws which govern the human existence. Sanatana Dharma is to human life what natural laws are to the physical phenomena. 
An (otherwise unknown) author with the name Sānātanī is mentioned by Udayana (10th century). Sanātanī is a term often used by Indians to either describe denominations that adhere to Sanatana Dharma (Hinduism), or what is sometimes misunderstood to be Orthodox Hinduism. The term was popularized by Mahatma Gandhi in 1921. Sanātanī is a term often used by Indians to either describe denominations that adhere to Sanatana Dharma (Hinduism), or what is sometimes misunderstood to be Orthodox Hinduism
This is evident by the very term itself. The two words, Sanatana Dharma, come from the ancient Sanskrit language.  Sanatana  is a Sanskrit word that denotes that which which is Anadi (beginningless), Anantha (endless) and does not cease to be, that which is eternal and everlasting. Sanatana Dharma. First and foremost, Sanatana Dharma is anadi (without beginning) and also a-paurusheya (without a human founder). It is defined by the quest for cosmic truth, just as the quest for physical truth defines science.
Sanatana Dharma is is the original name of what is now popularly called Hinduism or Hindu Dharma. The terms Hindu and Hinduism are said to be a more recent development, while the more accurate term is Sanatana Dharma. Sanatana Dharma. First and foremost, Sanatana Dharma is anadi (without beginning) and also a-paurusheya (without a human founder). It is defined by the quest for cosmic truth, just as the quest for physical truth defines science.
The two words, Sanatana Dharma, come from the ancient Sanskrit language.  Sanatana  is a Sanskrit word that denotes that which does not cease to be, that which is eternal. The word  Dharma , on the other hand, is a term that is only properly rendered into the English language with a bit of difficulty. Sanatana Dharma is the world's most ancient culture and the spiritual path of almost one billion of the earth's inhabitants. Followers of Sanatana Dharma are known as Dharmis (“followers of Dharma”).
When it comes to understanding the meaning of Sanatana-dharma, we have to be aware of its Sanskrit definition. The root of the word dharma comes from dhri, which means to uphold or maintain. The Sanskrit says dharayati iti dharmaha, which translates as dharma is that which upholds. Sanatana means eternal. So Sanatana-dharma can mean the ancient path that has existed from time immemorial. It is the eternal path which has been given to humanity and comes from beyond the material dimension. Thus, Sanatana-dharma is the inter-dimensional path of progress for all living beings.
Sanatana-dharma also means the eternal path and our eternal nature. Dharma means the ultimate nature of the living being, the spirit soul. And the nature or dharma of the soul is to love and be loved, to serve its most lovable object and to receive love.anatana means eternal. So Sanatana-dharma can mean the ancient path that has existed from time immemorial. It is the eternal path which has been given to humanity and comes from beyond the material dimension. Thus, Sanatana-dharma is the inter-dimensional path of progress for all living beings.
Sanatana Dharma is by its very essence a term that is devoid of sectarian leanings or ideological divisions. This is evident by the very term itself. The two words, Sanatana Dharma, come from the ancient Sanskrit language.  Sanatana  is a Sanskrit word that denotes that which does not cease to be, that which is eternal. The word  Dharma  is a term that is only properly rendered into the English language with difficulty. 