Honey /ˈhʌni/ is a sweet food made by bees using nectar from flowers. The variety produced by honey bees (the genus Apis) is the one most commonly referred to, as it is the type of honey collected by most beekeepers and consumed by people. 
Story at-a-glance 1  +. Honey is a blend of sugar, trace enzymes, minerals, vitamins, and amino acids that has antibacterial, anti-fungal, and antioxidant properties. 2  Honey works as well as dextromethorphan, a common ingredient in over-the-counter cough medications, to soothe cough and related sleeping difficulties. Lemon helps promote health by quickly alkalinizing your body, and honey will kill most bacteria while soothing your throat. This is a perfect choice for a quick cough remedy. 1  Put a pint of raw honey in a pan on the stove on VERY low heat (Do not boil honey as this changes its medicinal properties).
Raw honey is honey (nectar from flowers) that is pure, unheated, unpasteurized and unprocessed. This is perhaps one of the most important characteristics and health benefits of the final product, as it preserves all the natural vitamins, enzymes, phytonutrients and other nutritional elements. Raw honey has been used by humans for at least 10,000 years, and has played a vital role in health, healing, religious and cultural traditions. Characteristics of Raw Honey. Raw honey can be in liquid or solid (creamed) form when you purchase it.
Raw honey is used by many as a treatment for allergies and for its antibacterial properties; however, many experts warn against ingesting raw, unpasteurized honey because it could pose certain health dangers for the consumer. Raw honey is reported to have certain health benefits though it also poses some dangers. Honey is a popular addition to many diets, but it’s been shown to have certain effects beyond the culinary.
Amazing Benefits Of Honey. Honey is not only extremely tasty to have, but it is also very helpful. Be it your annoying cold or the irksome cough, honey is the ultimate solution for so many problems that we face in life. Here are some amazing health benefits of honey that you probably never knew........ Healthy Skin Mix honey and milk cream and you have for you a natural face pack.
Because of this, for centuries, honey has been used all over the world in different cultures as a natural cure for many ailments, and traditionally as an effective home remedy, for instance the honey and apple cider vinegar tonic which is used for treating arthritis and bad breath. Why is Honey Good for You? Many people often ask Why is honey good for you?, Is this sweetener really more superior than table sugar?.
Raw honey is the unpasteurized version of more commonly used honey but with added filtration, which mainly helps extend shelf life. Research suggests that raw honey's active phytonutrients – as well as its antibacterial and antifungal properties – contribute to its vast array of health benefits. Posted on 11/06/2013 | Comments (). Start Slideshow. The healing powers of honey have been around for centuries, but you might be surprised how many health benefits you can get from this kitchen staple. This golden liquid has been shown to help fix ailments ranging from a pesky cough to a painful wound.
The combination of honey and cinnamon has been used in oriental medicine for centuries and people have claimed that the mixture is a formula for many health benefits and a cure for many ailments including hair loss and bad breath. End of Health Benefits of Honey Back to Honey as Home Remedy. The health benefits of honey and vinegar drink are widely known. This recipe has traditionally been used as a home self-detox or self remedy for many ailments such as arthritis. Click here to learn more about the benefits of the Honey and Vinegar Remedy.
Honey is gentle on the stomach and contains a mix of natural sugars such fructose which is known to speed up the oxidation of alcohol by the liver, acting as a 'sobering' agent. Follow this recipe: 15ml of liquid honey with 80ml of orange juice and 70ml of natural yogurt. The health benefits of honey and vinegar drink are widely known. This recipe has traditionally been used as a home self-detox or self remedy for many ailments such as arthritis. Click here to learn more about the benefits of the Honey and Vinegar Remedy.