The mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) is a deer whose habitat is in the western half of North America. It gets its name from its large mule-like ears. The black-tailed deer is considered by some a distinct species though it is classified as a subspecies of the Mule Deer. The mule deer is the largest of the Odocoileus genus, standing, on the average, 40–42 inches (100–110 cm) at the shoulders and stretching 80 inches (200 cm) or so nose to tail. An adult buck will weigh from 150–300 pounds (68–140 kg) on the hoof, with does averaging 125–175 pounds (57–79 kg).
The most noticeable differences between white-tailed and mule deer are the size of their ears, the color of their tails, and the configuration of their antlers. In many cases, body size is also a key difference. The mule deer's tail is black-tipped, whereas the whitetail's is not. Black-tailed deer have also been introduced to Kauai, Hawaii. The mule deer is the larger of the two Odocoileus species on average, with a height of 80–106 cm (31–42 in) at the shoulders and a nose-to-tail length ranging from 1.2 to 2.1 m (3.9 to 6.9 ft). Of this, the tail may comprise 11.6 to 23 cm (4.6 to 9.1 in).
Notes: 1  Largest of the three native deer species (mule, black-tailed, white-tailed). 2  Antlers grow in forked pairs (unlike white-tailed deer antler which has one main beam with unbranched tines). 3  White rump patch with narrow, black-tipped tail. 4  Very large ears (where it gets its name). 1 Largest of the three native deer species (mule, black-tailed, white-tailed). 2  Antlers grow in forked pairs (unlike white-tailed deer antler which has one main beam with unbranched tines). 3  White rump patch with narrow, black-tipped tail. 4  Very large ears (where it gets its name). 5  Light face and muzzle with dark forehead.
Distribution in North America: Mule deer and the two black-tailed deer species are subspecies of the same species, Odocoileus hemionus. They are mainly separated by geography, size, to some extent color and behavior. 1 Largest of the three native deer species (mule, black-tailed, white-tailed). 2  Antlers grow in forked pairs (unlike white-tailed deer antler which has one main beam with unbranched tines). 3  White rump patch with narrow, black-tipped tail. 4  Very large ears (where it gets its name). 5  Light face and muzzle with dark forehead.
Columbian Black-tailed Deer are not threatened. Subspecies: Rocky Mountain Mule Deer (Odocoileus hemionus hemionus) Subspecies Description: The Rocky Mountain Mule Deer’s ears are large and its tail has relatively short white hairs, except on the tip where they are longer and black. Surrounding the tail is a large white rump patch, while the top of the rump just at the base of the tail is often darker than the rest of the body.
The mule deer (Odocoileus hemionus) is a deer indigenous to western North America; it is named for its ears, which are large like those of the mule. There are believed to be several subspecies, including the black-tailed deer. Unlike the related white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus), mule deer are generally more associated with the land west of the Missouri River, and more specifically with the Rocky Mountain region of North America. Black-tailed deer have also been introduced to Kauai, Hawaii. The mule deer is the larger of the two Odocoileus species on average, with a height of 80–106 cm (31–42 in) at the shoulders and a nose-to-tail length ranging from 1.2 to 2.1 m (3.9 to 6.9 ft). Of this, the tail may comprise 11.6 to 23 cm (4.6 to 9.1 in).
There are 30 subspecies of white-tailed deer found throughout North and Central America. The 7 subspecies of mule deer are found from Central North America and Mexico westward to the Pacific Ocean. In South Dakota white-tailed deer are found throughout the state. Mule deer. This deer's common name comes from its uniquely shaped, large ears. The tail is narrow, brownish in color with a black tip. As in white-tailed deer, antlers are found only on male mule deer, but points branch equally rather than projecting from a main beam as in white-tailed deer (see Figure 1).
Subspecies - 9 subspecies of the mule deer and 2 subspecies of the blacktail deer are found in North America. The 6 subspecies identified below are most common. The mule deer is distinguished from the whitetail in several ways. From between the ears to a point midway on the face is a recognizable black patch in the form of a solid U.
The eastern edge of the mule deer's range is southwestern Saskatchewan. Odocoileus hemionus and its subspecies are common to Alaska, British Columbia, Alberta, North Dakota, South Dakota, Nebraska, Kansas, Colorado, Utah, New Mexico, Arizona, Nevada, California, Oregon, Washington, and western Oklahoma (Wallmo 1981).