Solid Masonry. Solid masonry construction is also called Solid Brick', Double Brick', and sometimes Brick and Block'. In its most common form, a solid masonry wall consists of an outer layer of brick and an inner layer of brick (a layer of brick is called a wythe' in masonry circles). The reason why solid masonry is a more accurate description than solid brick or double brick is because the inner wythe may not be brick.
1 A masonry veneer wall can be completed in a shorter time with less labor than a solid masonry wall thus saving in cost. 2  The weight of a veneer wall can be significantly less than solid masonry, resulting in economies in foundations and structural support. Because the masonry veneer is non-structural, it must be tied back to the building structure to prevent movement under wind and earthquake loads. This is usually accomplished by a means that does not interrupt the drainage plane and does not compromise cavity insulation.
Masonry veneer is a construction material used on the exterior walls of homes and commercial buildings. It is comprised of thin pieces of brick or stone, and gives the appearance of solid masonry without the associated weight and cost. Ad. The outermost layer of these walls is made from the masonry veneer and mortar. Depending on the type of veneer being used, the stone may be installed against a backer board made from dense foam or plywood. In the case of brick veneer, the masonry exterior may simply be self-supporting, with no backer board required
There are two basic methods of constructing walls using masonry veneer. The first is known as an anchored system, and relies on brick ties and angle brackets to anchor the veneer wall to the building's structural framing. The second type of masonry wall construction is an adhered system. Ad. The outermost layer of these walls is made from the masonry veneer and mortar. Depending on the type of veneer being used, the stone may be installed against a backer board made from dense foam or plywood. In the case of brick veneer, the masonry exterior may simply be self-supporting, with no backer board required
Masonry is commonly used for the walls of buildings, retaining walls and buildings. Brick and concrete block are the most common types of masonry in use in industrialized nations and may be either weight-bearing or a veneer. They often are used as the structural core for veneered brick masonry, or are used alone for the walls of factories, garages and other industrial-style buildings where such appearance is acceptable or desirable. Such blocks often receive a stucco surface for decoration.
A variant on masonry veneer is the rain screen veneer. Rain screens are ventilated at the top and bottom of the cavity to prevent wind-driven rain from being driven into the building by unbalanced pressure. Such systems are typically encountered in areas where blowing rain is a significant concern. Because the masonry veneer is non-structural, it must be tied back to the building structure to prevent movement under wind and earthquake loads. This is usually accomplished by a means that does not interrupt the drainage plane and does not compromise cavity insulation.
Masonry veneer walls consist of a single non-structural external layer of masonry work, typically brick, backed by an air space. Because the masonry veneer is non-structural, it must be tied back to the building structure to prevent movement under wind and earthquake loads. This is usually accomplished by a means that does not interrupt the drainage plane and does not compromise cavity insulation.
Where a full concrete masonry wall is not practical or possible, Veneer units manufactured by Angelus Block afford the same attractive and maintenance-free wall surface as structural cmu. Concrete masonry veneer units are installed as anchored veneer or adhered veneer. Construction and materials are governed by Chapter 14 of the California Building Code and Chapter 6 of MSJC (TMS 402/ACI 530/ASCE 5).
Solid Masonry. Solid masonry construction is also called ‘Solid Brick’, ‘Double Brick’, and sometimes ‘Brick and Block’. In its most common form, a solid masonry wall consists of an outer layer of brick and an inner layer of brick (a layer of brick is called a ‘wythe’ in masonry circles). The reason why solid masonry is a more accurate description than solid brick or double brick is because the inner wythe may not be brick.