The Baroque Period (1600 - 1750). The art and architecture of the Baroque period reflects an often bizarre style characterized by ornamental decorations. Especially noted in churches, palaces and other buildings of the period is the profusion of worldly splendour apparent in grandiose designs and elaborate decorations. Other forms of keyboard music from the Baroque period are theme and variations, passacaglia, chaconne, invention, prelude, fugue, choral prelude, ricercare, fantasy, toccata and concerto. The two best known Baroque composers are Johann Sebastian Bach and George Frederick Handel, both Germans.
Two composers predominated in the first half of the Baroque period. Their music embodies many of the elements of the transition from Renaissance to Baroque style. These two composers were Claudio Monteverdi (1567-1643) and Heinrich Schutz (1585-1672). Important Forms. In the Baroque period, some of the important choral forms, such as the ass and the motet, represented the continued development of Renaissance ideas. Others, such as the cantata and the oratorio, were newly created or assumed a new importance in terms of stylistic development.
The Baroque period in music is often described as ornate and intense. Music from this period often features emotions expressed through repeating melodies and quick changes in volume, pace and other aspects. 1. The organ and other keyboard instruments were important catalysts in driving composers to create more complex music in the Baroque era. Learn how the instruments work and why they played such an important role during this time period.
During the Baroque period, composers experimented with musical contrasts that differed greatly from the music of the Renaissance. They used what is known as a melodic soprano line supported by a bass line. Music became homophonic, meaning it was based on one melody with harmonic support coming from a keyboard player. St. Mark's Basilica. This basilica in Venice became an important venue for musical experiments during the early Baroque period. The composer Giovanni Gabrielli wrote music for St. Mark's as well as Monteverdi and Stravinsky.
Baroque was before the Classical period from the 1600s-1700s. Some composers include Bach, Telemann, Pachelbel, Purcell, Vivaldi, and Handel. Many woodwinds and strings, imagi … ne dancing in a castle, that would be baroque music. The harpsichord was a very popular instrument at the time. Baroque music belongs to its own period, the Baroque period (1600-1760). It was followed by the Classical period (1750-1830). … Baroque music and Classical music differ in terms of music theory, instrumentation, and key people.
Baroque music forms a major portion of the classical music canon, being widely studied, performed, and listened to. Although the term was applied to architecture and art criticism in the 19th century, it wasn't until the 20th century that the term baroque was applied to music.
Baroque music expanded the size, range, and complexity of instrumental performance, and also established opera, cantata, oratorio, concerto, and sonata as musical genres. Many musical terms and concepts from this era are still in use today. Although the term was applied to architecture and art criticism in the 19th century, it wasn't until the 20th century that the term baroque was applied to music.
The Baroque (US /bəˈroʊk/ or UK /bəˈrɒk/) is often thought of as a period of artistic style that used exaggerated motion and clear, easily interpreted detail to produce drama, tension, exuberance, and grandeur in sculpture, painting, architecture, literature, dance, theater, and music. 
The term Baroque is generally used by music historians to describe a broad range of styles from a wide geographic region, mostly in Europe, composed over a period of approximately 150 years. Although the term was applied to architecture and art criticism in the 19th century, it wasn't until the 20th century that the term baroque was applied to music.