Monocots. Monocotyledonous leaves show a parallel venation and mostly are arrow or band-shaped. Stomata and other epidermal cells are almost always arranged in parallel arrays. These characterics are depicted in the photographs below of maize, papyrus and yucca. How monocotyle leaves develop is further explained in the section on monocot leaf formation
(photo by Zoncho Tso). 1  Right in the center of the Yucca plant there is usually a flower stalk (3-5ft. long) that has lily-like flowers and fruit pods. 2  The fruit pods are 2-3 inches in length and and 1-2 inches in width.Inside these fruits are seeds which are thin, black, and coarse. Medicinal Uses: The yucca root and leaves have steroidal saponins which are used for inflammation, pain relieving for arthritic and joint pain. It is also good for blood purifying and cleaning of the kidneys and liver.
According to the IUCN there are 59,300 species of monocots. The largest family in this group (and in the flowering plants as a whole) by number of species are the orchids (family Orchidaceae), with more than 20,000 species. Taxonomists have considerable latitude in naming this group, as the monocots are a group above the rank of family. Article 16 of the ICBN allows either a descriptive name or a name formed from the name of an included family.
The natural distribution range of the genus Yucca (49 species and 24 subspecies) covers a vast area of North and Central America. From Baja California in the west, northwards into the southwestern United States, through the drier central states as far north as Alberta in Canada (Yucca glauca ssp. albertana). Yucca is also native to the lowlands and dry beach scrub of the Gulf and South Atlantic states from coastal Texas to easternmost Virginia. To the south, the genus is represented throughout Mexico and extends into Guatemala (Yucca guatemalensis).
1 Right in the center of the Yucca plant there is usually a flower stalk (3-5ft. long) that has lily-like flowers and fruit pods. 2  The fruit pods are 2-3 inches in length and and 1-2 inches in width.Inside these fruits are seeds which are thin, black, and coarse. Medicinal Uses: The yucca root and leaves have steroidal saponins which are used for inflammation, pain relieving for arthritic and joint pain. It is also good for blood purifying and cleaning of the kidneys and liver.
The Plants Database includes the following 30 species of Yucca. Click below on a thumbnail map or name for species profiles. 
can refer to: Yucca, genus in the plant family Asparagaceae | Hesperoyucca whipplei, a species of flowering plant closely related to, and formerly usually included in, the genus Yucca | Cassava, which is called yuca in Spanish | Yucca, Arizona | Yucca,... en​.wikipedia​.org​/wiki​/Yucca (disambiguation). Any of several closely related, stemless or nearly stemless plants of the genus Yucca, especially Y. filamentosa and Y. smalliana of the ...
1 Identify characteristics of monocot stems as distinguished from dicot stems. 2  State the method by which secondary growth is accomplished in monocots. 3  Identify primary thickening meristem in Yucca as seen in stem tip photos. 4  Describe the vascular pattern and bundle composition in primary stems. 1 State the method by which secondary growth is accomplished in monocots. 2  Identify primary thickening meristem in Yucca as seen in stem tip photos. 3
Yucca is a genus of perennial shrubs and trees in the family Asparagaceae, subfamily Agavoideae. Its 40-50 species are notable for their rosettes of evergreen, tough, sword-shaped leaves and large terminal panicles of white or whitish flowers. Yucca is also native to the lowlands and dry beach scrub of the Gulf and South Atlantic states from coastal Texas to easternmost Virginia. To the south, the genus is represented throughout Mexico and extends into Guatemala (Yucca guatemalensis).
| Sarcoyucca. a genus of perennial shrubs and trees in the family Asparagaceae, subfamily Agavoideae. Its 40-50 species are notable for their rosettes of evergreen, tough, sword-shaped leaves and large terminal panicles of white or whitish flowers. Any of several closely related, stemless or nearly stemless plants of the genus Yucca, especially Y. filamentosa and Y. smalliana of the ...