Protozoan Diseases in Humans. Some of the important protozoan diseases are: 1  Malaria: it is mosquito-borne tropical disease caused by the plasmodium species of protozoa. 2  The various types of species are P. vivax, P. falciparum, P. ovale, P.malariae.
Symptoms include mucusy stools, diarrhea, nausea, abdominal pain and upset stomach. African sleeping sickness is a disease caused by the protozoa, which are carried by the tsetse fly and are transmitted to humans through tsetse fly bites. This disease is fairly damaging to the human body and can cause serious illness.
• This is a protozoan disease of animals and humans caused by parasites of the genus Trypanosoma, which are found in blood plasma, various body tissues and fluids. Transmission: • Trypanosoma are transmitted primarily by the Glossina spp., tsetse fly, Stomoxys, tabanid and reduviid bugs, and by venereal contact.
Protozoa that live in the blood or tissue of humans are transmitted to other humans by an arthropod vector (for example, through the bite of a mosquito or sand fly). Entamoeba histolytica is a protozoan. A microscope is necessary to view this parasite.
A parasite is an organism that lives on or in a host organism and gets its food from or at the expense of its host. There are three main classes of parasites that can cause disease in humans: protozoa, helminths, and ectoparasites.
Infectious diseases are caused by small microbes invisible to the eye. The microbes include bacteria, protozoans, fungi, yeast and virus. Of them bacteria and protozoans are the most common disease causing agents. Bacteria cause disease both in plants and animals.
African Sleeping Sickness. African sleeping sickness is a disease caused by the protozoa, which are carried by the tsetse fly and are transmitted to humans through tsetse fly bites. This disease is fairly damaging to the human body and can cause serious illness.
3. African sleeping sickness is a disease caused by the protozoa, which are carried by the tsetse fly and are transmitted to humans through tsetse fly bites. This disease is fairly damaging to the human body and can cause serious illness.