Nature through the carbon cycle provides 97%. Burning of fossil fuels (coal, oil and natural gas) releases extra carbon long-hidden underground. In terms of what process releases the most carbon dioxide into our  atmosphere it is decaying organic matter. Total natural decay  accounts for over 80% of all CO2 released annually. Natural  processes in total account for 93% of all CO2 releases.
Oil and gas is made up of the remains of microscopic plankton. Over millions of years these remains become the carbon-rich coal, oil and gas we can use as fuel. When fossil fuels are burned they release carbon dioxide into the atmosphere which contributes to global warming. Using fossil fuels to generate energy also releases pollutants into the atmosphere-such as sulphur dioxide. Fossil fuels provide the main source of energy for our modern global economy. 
Burning of fossil fuels (coal, oil and natural gas) in industry, transport and the generation of electricity, which releases carbon dioxide (CO2).Wild fires, forest fires and … bush fires, as well as the burning of biomass, that is, recently grown vegetation.Natural decay of dead trees and vegetation. In terms of what process releases the most carbon dioxide into our  atmosphere it is decaying organic matter. Total natural decay  accounts for over 80% of all CO2 released annually. Natural  processes in total account for 93% of all CO2 releases.
During combustion or burning, carbon from fossil fuels combine with oxygen in the air to form carbon dioxide and water vapor. These natural hydrocarbon fuels come from once-living organisms and are made from carbon and hydrogen, which release carbon dioxide and water when they burn. glucose + oxygen → carbon dioxide + water + energy. Respiration is also the process by which once-living (organic) organisms are decomposed. When organisms die, they are decomposed by bacteria. Carbon dioxide is released into the atmosphere or water during the decomposition process.
The largest human source of carbon dioxide emissions is from the combustion of fossil fuels. This produces 87% of human carbon dioxide emissions. Burning these fuels releases energy which is most commonly turned into heat, electricity or power for transportation. Coal is responsible for 43% of carbon dioxide emissions from fuel combustion, 36% is produced by oil and 20% from natural gas. Coal is the most carbon intensive fossil fuel. For every tonne of coal burned, approximately 2.5 tonnes of CO 2 e are produced.
The carbon cycle moves carbon from the earth and the oceans into the atmosphere.Burning fossil fuels (coal, oil and natural gas) releases carbon.When animals, and humans, brea … the we release carbon into the atmosphere. In terms of what process releases the most carbon dioxide into our  atmosphere it is decaying organic matter. Total natural decay  accounts for over 80% of all CO2 released annually. Natural  processes in total account for 93% of all CO2 releases.
Human activities such as the burning of oil, coal and gas, as well as deforestation are the primary cause of the increased carbon dioxide concentrations in the atmosphere. 87 percent of all human-produced carbon dioxide emissions come from the burning of fossil fuels like coal, natural gas and oil. Coal is responsible for 43% of carbon dioxide emissions from fuel combustion, 36% is produced by oil and 20% from natural gas. Coal is the most carbon intensive fossil fuel. For every tonne of coal burned, approximately 2.5 tonnes of CO 2 e are produced.
Burning fossil fuels or wood (all containing carbon) the carbon dioxide is released in the atmosphere. The answer is the natural carbon cycle, in which animals exhale carbon dioxide into the atmosphere and plants then absorb the gas and use it to build their cells, which are of course later consumed by the animals. In terms of what process releases the most carbon dioxide into our  atmosphere it is decaying organic matter. Total natural decay  accounts for over 80% of all CO2 released annually. Natural  processes in total account for 93% of all CO2 releases.
The 3 types of fossil fuels that are used the most are coal, natural gas and oil. Coal is responsible for 43% of carbon dioxide emissions from fuel combustion, 36% is produced by oil and 20% from natural gas. Coal is the most carbon intensive fossil fuel. For every tonne of coal burned, approximately 2.5 tonnes of CO 2 e are produced.
Carbon dioxide exists in the Earth's atmosphere as a trace gas at a concentration of about 0.04 percent (400 ppm) by volume. Natural sources include volcanoes, hot springs and geysers and it is freed from carbonate rocks by dissolution in water and acids. As the concentration of carbon dioxide increases in the atmosphere, the increased uptake of carbon dioxide into the oceans is causing a measurable decrease in the pH of the oceans, which is referred to as ocean acidification.