1 Based on temperature, the atmosphere is divided into four layers: the troposphere, stratosphere, mesosphere, and thermosphere. 2  Energy is transferred between the earth's surface and the atmosphere via conduction, convection, and radiation. 3  Ocean currents play a significant role in transferring this heat poleward. The general concepts found in this section are: 1  The earth's atmosphere is a very thin layer wrapped around a very large planet. 2  Two gases make up the bulk of the earth's atmosphere: nitrogen (), which comprises 78% of the atmosphere, and oxygen (), which accounts for 21%.
Earth's atmosphere varies in density and composition as the altitude increases above the surface. The lowest part of the atmosphere is called the troposphere (and it extends from the surface up to about 10 km (6 miles). The gases in this region are predominantly molecular Oxygen. (O2) and molecular Nitrogen (N2). 
The Troposphere. This is the lowest part of the atmosphere-the part we live in. It contains most of our weather-clouds, rain, snow. In this part of the atmosphere the temperature gets colder as the distance above the earth increases, by about 6.5°C per kilometre. This change of temperature with height varies from day to day, depending on the weather.
The troposphere is the lowest layer of the Earth's atmosphere. The air is very well mixed and the temperature decreases with altitude. Air in the troposphere is heated from the ground up. The surface of the Earth absorbs energy and heats up faster than the air does. Ozone forms a kind of layer in the stratosphere, where it is more concentrated than anywhere else. Ozone and oxygen molecules in the stratosphere absorb ultraviolet light from the Sun, providing a shield that prevents this radiation from passing to the Earth's surface.
The three main parts of the atmosphere are Troposphere, Stratosphere, Mesosphere, and Thermosphere. 
The temperature decreases with altitude. Stratosphere: The stratosphere is found from about 7 to 30 miles (11-48 kilometers) above the Earths surface. In this region of the atmosphere is the ozone layer, which absorbs most of the harmful ultraviolet radiation from the Sun. 
The atmosphere is divided into four main parts. They are the Troposphere, Stratosphere, Mesosphere, and Thermosphere. On the sidebar to the left, you can navigate through this website to find more information on the specific parts of the atmosphere, the formation of the atmosphere, and the credits to this site. The atmosphere surrounds and protects the Earth
The atmosphere can be divided into layers based on its temperature, as shown in the figure below. These layers are the troposphere, the stratosphere, the mesosphere and the thermosphere. A further region, beginning about 500 km above the earth's surface, is called the exosphere. The red line on the figure below shows how temperature varies with height (the temperature scale is given along the bottom of the diagram). In this part of the atmosphere the temperature gets colder as the distance above the earth increases, by about 6.5°C per kilometre. This change of temperature with height varies from day to day, depending on the weather.
The thermosphere is the second-highest layer of Earth's atmosphere. It extends from the mesopause (which separates it from the mesosphere) at an altitude of about 80 km (50 mi; 260,000 ft) up to the thermopause at an altitude range of 500–1000 km (310–620 mi; 1,600,000–3,300,000 ft). 1 The ionosphere is a region of the atmosphere that is ionized by solar radiation. 2  It is responsible for auroras. 3  During daytime hours, it stretches from 50 to 1,000 km (31 to 621 mi; 160,000 to 3,280,000 ft) and includes the mesosphere, thermosphere, and parts of the exosphere.