As is the case with other big banks, bonuses can be gigantic at JPMorgan. For instance, the investment banking vice president salary is reported as $172,902, while bonuses nearly double the annual compensation to a sizeable $337,121. 
(JPMCC). (United States). The average pay for an Executive Director at J. P. Morgan Chase & Co. (JPMCC) is $182,984 per year. Most people in this job have more than five years' experience in related jobs. Total Pay (?XTotal Pay combines base annual salary or hourly wage, bonuses, profit sharing, tips, commissions, overtime pay and other forms of cash earnings, as applicable for this job.
JPMorgan Chase Executive Director-Investment Bank average salary is $188,213, median salary is $200,000 with a salary range from $150,000 to $280,000. JPMorgan Chase Executive Director-Investment Bank salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position. JPMorgan Chase Executive Director-Investment Bank salary statistics is not exclusive and is for reference only. JPMorgan Chase Executive Director-Investment Bank salary is full-time annual starting salary. Intern, contractor and hourly pay scale vary from regular exempt employee. Compensation depends on work experience, job location, bonus, benefits and other factors
The average pay for an Executive Director at J. P. Morgan Chase & Co. (JPMCC) is $182,984 per year. Total Pay (?XTotal Pay combines base annual salary or hourly wage, bonuses, profit sharing, tips, commissions, overtime pay and other forms of cash earnings, as applicable for this job.
A total of 43 salary data listed for Jpmorgan Chase executive director position. 
JPMorgan Chase Executive Director Salary. JPMorgan Chase Executive Director average salary is $188,467, median salary is $175,000 with a salary range from $135,000 to $300,000. JPMorgan Chase Executive Director salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position. JPMorgan Chase Executive Director salary is full-time annual starting salary. Intern, contractor and hourly pay scale vary from regular exempt employee. Compensation depends on work experience, job location, bonus, benefits and other factors.
X Total Pay combines base annual salary or hourly wage, bonuses, profit sharing, tips, commissions, overtime pay and other forms of cash earnings, as applicable for this job. It does not include equity (stock) compensation, cash value of retirement benefits, or the value of other non-cash benefits (e.g. healthcare). Total Pay (?X
Average Executive Director Salaries. The average salary for executive director jobs is $72,000. Average executive director salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. This salary was calculated using the average salary for all jobs with the term executive director anywhere in the job listing. 