Java Standard Edition (SE) is a free software bundle that provides the Java Runtime Environment and the libraries and components you need to display a wide range of programs and Web content on 32-bit Windows PCs. 
You need JDK, if at all you want to write your own programs, and to compile the m. For running java programs, JRE is sufficient. JRE is targeted for execution of Java files i.e. JRE = JVM + Java Packages Classes(like util, math, lang, awt,swing etc)+runtime libraries. JDK is mainly targeted for java development. I.e. You can create a Java file (with the help of Java packages), compile a Java file and run a java file. Java Runtime Environment contains JVM, class libraries, and other supporting files. It does not contain any development tools such as compiler, debugger, etc. Actually JVM runs the program, and it uses the class libraries, and other supporting files provided in JRE.
JRE is an acronym for Java Runtime Environment.It is used to provide runtime environment.It is the implementation of JVM.It physically exists.It contains set of libraries + other files that JVM uses at runtime. Implementation of JVMs are also actively released by other companies besides Sun Micro Systems. Understanding the difference between JDK, JRE and JVM is important in Java. We are having brief overview of JVM here. If you want to get the detailed knowledge of Java Virtural Machine, move to the next page. Firstly, let's see the basic differences between the JDK, JRE and JVM.
The JDK is the Java Development Kit. I.e., the JDK is bundle of software that you can use to develop Java based software. The JRE is the Java Runtime Environment. I.e., the JRE is an implementation of the Java Virtual Machine which actually executes Java programs. JRE is used to run web applets, desktop applications, class applications, and any other kind of file that is coded in Java. Without … JRE, you with not be able to use java. Java JDK is the Java Developers Kit. The Java Development Kit is used when developing Java applications.
What will I get when I download Java software? The Java Runtime Environment (JRE) is what you get when you download Java software. The JRE consists of the Java Virtual Machine (JVM), Java platform core classes, and supporting Java platform libraries. The JRE is the runtime portion of Java software, which is all you need to run it in your Web browser. What is Java Plug-in software? The Java Plug-in software is a component of the Java Runtime Environment (JRE). The JRE allows applets written in the Java programming language to run inside various browsers.
From Official java website... JRE (Java Runtime environment): 1  It is an implementation of the Java Virtual Machine* which actually executes Java programs. 2  Java Runtime Environment is a plug-in needed for running java programs. 3  The JRE is smaller than the JDK so it needs less Disk space. 1 Java Runtime Environment is a plug-in needed for running java programs. 2  The JRE is smaller than the JDK so it needs less Disk space. 3  The JRE can be downloaded/supported freely from https://www.java.com. 4  It includes the JVM, Core libraries and other additional components to run applications and applets written in Java.
John Mitchell. The JDK is the Java Development Kit. I.e., the JDK is bundle of software that you can use to develop Java based software. The JRE is the Java Runtime Environment. I.e., the JRE is an implementation of the Java Virtual Machine which actually executes Java programs. Typically, each JDK contains one (or more) JRE's along with the various development tools like the Java source compilers, bundling and deployment tools, debuggers, development libraries, etc
JDK is Java Developer Kit -- the JDK is what you need to compile Java source code. JRE is Java Runtime Environment -- is what you need to run a java program -- it contains a JVM, among other things. OpenJDK is a specific JDK implementation. The JDK is a superset of the JRE, and contains everything that is in the JRE, plus tools such as the compilers and debuggers necessary for developing applets and applications. Note that Oracle is not the only one to provide JDK.
Java JRE is the Java Runtime Environment. JRE is used to run web applets, desktop applications, class applications, and any other kind of file that is coded in Java. Without … JRE, you with not be able to use java. Java JDK is the Java Developers Kit. The Java Development Kit is used when developing Java applications.
Uninstalling the JRE. To uninstall the JRE, use the Java Uninstall tool, which you can access in the following ways: If the JRE is version 8u20 or later, uninstall it with the Add/Remove Programs utility in the Microsoft Windows Control Panel. 