Let’s talk about the two major differences; hydrophilic and hydrophobic. The second type of self-cleaning glass above is glass applied with a hydrophobic coating also known as having the “lotus effect” which refers to the very high water repellency exhibited by the leaves of the lotus flower. This type of self-clean coating works in fact like a shield. 
Aculon's hydrophobic coatings are water repellent and this hydrophobicity renders treated surfaces extremely easy to clean as deposits and residues left by water, dirt and even oil cannot stick to or smudge these surfaces. SuperHydrophobic Coating. Aculon also has a range of products which are classed as super-hydrophobic; taking easy-clean, water repellent and anti-smudge surface characteristics for numerous applications to even higher levels.
thin layers of a waterproof substance on the surface of hydrophilic materials. Hydrophobic coatings are often called water-repellent, which is incorrect, since the water molecules are attracted to the coatings, although extremely weakly, rather than repelled by them. Substances used as hydrophobic agents include salts of fatty acids and such metals as copper, aluminum, and zirconium; cation-active surface-active agents; and low-and high-molecular-weight organosilicon and organic fluorine compounds.
Very simply, a hydrophobic auto glass coating is a glaze applied to all the glass surfaces of the car that gives those surfaces the ability to clean themselves. It works by forcing water to form together into larger round droplets, which disperse across the window more quickly and wick away dirt and other debris. Hydrophobic auto glass coating can keep you safe as you drive. For many car owners, keeping their car glass clean can be a hassle and is therefore often neglected. As dirt and other debris builds up on the windshield and windows, it can be a hazard because visibility is diminished.
In industry, super-hydrophobic coatings are used in ultra-dry surface applications. The coating causes an almost imperceptibly thin layer of air to form on top of a surface. Super-hydrophobic coatings are also found in nature; they appear on plant leaves, such as the Lotus leaf, and some insect wings. A superhydrophobic coating is a nanoscopic surface layer that repels water. Droplet hitting on this kind of coating can fully rebound in the shape of column or pancake.
Hydrophobic Coatings. Our liquid glass coatings are also known as hydrophobic coatings, since one of the primary characteristics of the technology is that it makes all substrates it is applied to resistant to water, oil and other liquids. Typically hydrophobic coatings tend force the liquid to bead on a surface as demonstrated in the image below. This is an image of a white shirt coated in our liquid glass textile coating / hydrophobic coating repelling blackcurrant juice.
Hydrophobic coatings protect various materials (metal, wood, plastics, leather, and fabric and nonfabric fibrous ma-terials) from the destructive action of water or wetting. They are used particularly extensively in machine building,construction, and textile production. 1  Facebook. Substances used as hydrophobic agents include salts of fatty acids and such metals as copper, aluminum, and zirconium; cation-active surface-active agents; and low-and high-molecular-weight organosilicon and organic fluorine compounds.