You can find out where the majority of the Monger families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. from the New York Passenger Lists. Monger census records. Census records can offer a lot of little known facts about your Monger ancestors, such as occupation. Occupation can tell you about your ancestors' social status and economic status.
There is more to Monger family history than the origin of your surname: Start your Genealogy to find your personal Monger family ancestry. It's easy to get started. Just begin your family tree with what you already know. A Monger Family History Thought: 'In all of us there is a hunger, marrow-deep, to know our heritage-to know who we are and where we have come from. Without this enriching knowledge, there is a hollow yearning. No matter what our attainments in life, there is still a vacuum.
Click on a place to view Monger immigration records. The information for this chart came from the U.S. Immigration Collection at Ancestry. You can find out where the majority of the Monger families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. from the New York Passenger Lists. Click on a circle in the chart to view Monger emigration records. You can find out when most of the Monger families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to emigration records dating from that era.
Click on a circle in the chart to view Monger birth and death records. An unusually short lifespan might indicate that your ancestors lived in harsh conditions. A short lifespan might also indicate health problems that were once prevalent in your family. Monger census records. Census records can offer a lot of little known facts about your Monger ancestors, such as occupation. Occupation can tell you about your ancestors' social status and economic status.
It is occupational either for a person who worked in a stable or manger, or as a trader or merchant. The later styling was as costermonger, a term which usually described a seller of fruit and vegatables. The origination is from the pre 7th century word 'mangere'. He was listed as a landowner in the Hundred Rolls of the county of Huntingdon in the year 1255. Later recordings from the medieval period include those of Richard le Manger in the Subsidy Tax registers of the county of Worcester in 1275, and in Yorkshire, that of Robert Monger.
The noun MONGER has 1 sense: 1. someone who purchases and maintains an inventory of goods to be sold. Familiarity information: MONGER used as a noun is very rare. • MONGER (verb). The verb MONGER has 1 sense: 1. sell or offer for sale from place to place. Familiarity information: MONGER used as a verb is very rare.
Occupational name for a retail trader or a stallholder in a market, Middle English monger, manger 1. A dealer in a specific commodity. Often used in combination: an ironmonger. 2. A person promoting something undesirable or discreditable. Often used in combination: a scandalmonger; a warmonger. Distribution of the name. Extensive reserach has idenitifed four key family groups originating in the UK and one from Germany. 1. Hampshire-George Monger born sometime before 1650, he married Mary Bellamy.
Click on a circle in the chart to view Monger immigration records. You can find out when most of the Monger families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era. Monger census records. Census records can offer a lot of little known facts about your Monger ancestors, such as occupation. Occupation can tell you about your ancestors' social status and economic status.
Monger Surname Origin. Anciently an extensive merchant, now used to denote those who traffie in a single article. Source: An Etymological Dictionary of Family and Christian Names With an Essay on their Derivation and Import; Arthur, William, M.A.; New York, NY: Sheldon, Blake, Bleeker & CO., 1857. A Monger Family History Thought: 'In all of us there is a hunger, marrow-deep, to know our heritage-to know who we are and where we have come from. Without this enriching knowledge, there is a hollow yearning. No matter what our attainments in life, there is still a vacuum.
You can find out where the majority of the Munger families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. from the New York Passenger Lists. You can find out when most of the Munger families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival and destination. from the Social Security Death Index (SSDI).