Most adults have a resting heart rate of 60-100 beats per minute (bpm). The fitter you are, the lower your resting heart rate is likely to be. For example, athletes may have a resting heart rate of 40-60 bpm or lower. 
Even if you’re not an athlete, knowledge about your heart rate can help you monitor your fitness level — and it might even help you spot developing health problems. Your heart rate, or pulse, is the number of times your heart beats per minute. Normal heart rate varies from person to person. Knowing yours can be an important heart-health gauge. 
Heart rate, or heart pulse, is the speed of the heartbeat measured by the number of contractions of the heart per unit of time — typically beats per minute (bpm). The heart rate can vary according to the body's physical needs, including the need to absorb oxygen and excrete carbon dioxide. Bradycardia was defined as a heart rate less than 60 beats per minute when textbooks asserted that the normal range for heart rates was 60–100 BPM. The normal range has since been revised in textbooks to 50–90 BPM for a human at total rest.
1 A normal adult resting heart beat is between 60-100 heartbeats per minute. 2  Some experienced athletes may see their resting heartrate fall below 60 beats per minute. 3  Tachycardia refers to the heart beating too fast at rest-over 100 beats per minute. 1 Your heart rate is the number of times per minute that the heart beats. 2  Heart rate rises significantly in response to adrenaline if a person is frightened or surprised. 3  Taking a person's pulse is a direct measure of heart rate.
A normal resting heart rate for adults ranges from 60 to 100 beats a minute. Generally, a lower heart rate at rest implies more efficient heart function and better cardiovascular fitness. For example, a well-trained athlete might have a normal resting heart rate closer to 40 beats a minute. Consult your doctor if your resting heart rate is consistently above 100 beats a minute (tachycardia) or if you're not a trained athlete and your resting heart rate is below 60 beats a minute (bradycardia) — especially if you have other signs or symptoms, such as fainting, dizziness or shortness of breath. With.
For adults 18 and older, a normal resting heart rate is between 60 and 100 beats per minute (bpm), depending on the person’s physical condition and age. For children ages 6 to 15, the normal resting heart rate is between 70 and 100 bpm, according to the AHA. View full size image. Heart rate, also known as pulse, is the number of times a person's heart beats per minute. A normal heart rate depends on the individual, age, body size, heart conditions, whether the person is sitting or moving, medication use and even air temperature. Even emotions can have an impact on heart rate
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Normal is defined as a heart rate between 60 and 100 beats per minute. Less than 60 beats per minute is bradycardia (low heart rate), more than 100 beats per minute is tachycardia (rapid heart rate)
somewhere between 60 to 100 beats per minute.if your heart rate is normally about 90, a heart rate of 60 is going to be abnormal low. if you are 2 years old your heart b … eat should be 115 - 170. the standard range of a normal healthy human adult heart rate is said to be 60 - 80 beats per minute when at rest. The normal heart rate for an adult at rest is 60 to 100 beats per minute. People who excercise regularly and are in good physical condition may have heart rates into the 50' … s and are still considered normal.