Treaty 6 is an agreement between the Canadian monarch and the Plain and Wood Cree, Assiniboine, and other band governments of First Nations at Fort Carlton, Fort Pitt and Battle River. One Manitoba band also signed on to the treaty by adhesion in 1898. The treaty signings began in August 1876, with adhesions added in 1898 in central Saskatchewan in the Montreal Lake area.
This believed to be the first such agreement between a city in Alberta and a group of First Nations governments. Edmonton is within Treaty 6 territory and has the second largest Aboriginal population of any municipality in Canada. One Manitoba band also signed on to the treaty by adhesion in 1898. The treaty signings began in August 1876, with adhesions added in 1898 in central Saskatchewan in the Montreal Lake area.
Aboriginal Relations and the City of Edmonton. Treaty No. 6 Recognition Day is planned in partnership by the City of Edmonton, through its Aboriginal Relations Office (ARO) , and the Confederacy of Treaty Six First Nations. Treaty No. 6 Recognition Day is one of a range of initiatives shared between the City and the Confederacy. Treaty No. 6 commemorative event and celebration. City Room, City Hall. 9am. Mayor Don Iveson and City councillors, invites Edmontonians and all citizens of Alberta’s Treaty No. 6 territory to join him in hosting Treaty No. 6 First Nations leaders at City Hall in honour of Treaty No. 6 Recognition Day.
1 Commemorate the signing of Treaty No.6 between the Plains and Wood Cree people and the Crown on August 23, 1876. 2  Pay homage to the adhesion to Treaty No.6 by Chiefs at a site in what is now known as Edmonton, on August 21, 1877. Treaty No. 6 commemorative event and celebration. City Room, City Hall. 9am. Mayor Don Iveson and City councillors, invites Edmontonians and all citizens of Alberta’s Treaty No. 6 territory to join him in hosting Treaty No. 6 First Nations leaders at City Hall in honour of Treaty No. 6 Recognition Day.
The Beaver Lake Cree Nation is a First Nations band government located 105 kilometres (65 mi) northeast of Edmonton, Alberta, representing people of the Cree ethno-linguistic group in the area around Lac La Biche, Alberta, which is the location of their band office. Their treaty area is Treaty 6. The Intergovernmental Affairs office consults with persons on the Government treaty contacts list. There are two parcels of land reserved for the band by the Canadian Crown, Beaver Lake Indian Reserve No. 131 and Blue Quills First Nation Indian Reserve. The latter reserve is shared with five other bands.
The Chiefs of Treaty No. 8 [Alberta] are encouraging their communities and members to make sure they are registered to vote in the upcoming Federal election. The election will be held on October 19, 2015 at polling stations across the country. 
This year’s event will: 1  Commemorate the signing of Treaty No.6 between the Plains and Wood Cree people and the Crown on August 23, 1876. 2  Pay homage to the adhesion to Treaty No.6 by Chiefs at a site in what is now known as Edmonton, on August 21, 1877. Treaty No. 6 commemorative event and celebration. City Room, City Hall. 9am. Mayor Don Iveson and City councillors, invites Edmontonians and all citizens of Alberta’s Treaty No. 6 territory to join him in hosting Treaty No. 6 First Nations leaders at City Hall in honour of Treaty No. 6 Recognition Day.
Historic relationship between Aboriginal communities and City honoured. Chiefs representing 18 Confederacy of Treaty 6 First Nations assembled at Edmonton City Hall to recognize the historic relationship forged between the Plains and Wood Cree people and the Crown at Fort Carlton in 1876. 
At the time Treaty 6 was signed, the famous medicine chest clause was inserted at Indian insistence that the Indian agent should keep a medicine chest at his house for use. One Manitoba band also signed on to the treaty by adhesion in 1898. The treaty signings began in August 1876, with adhesions added in 1898 in central Saskatchewan in the Montreal Lake area.
Also working with Aboriginal Affairs and Northern Development Canada in Alberta are the offices of the Federal Interlocutor for Metis and Non-Status Indians and Aboriginal Business Canada. Alberta is home to 45 First Nations communities in three treaty areas. Treaties 6, 7 and 8 consist of a combined 140 reserves spread over 812,771 hectares of land. The Regional Director General for the Alberta Region is Jim Sisson; the Associate Director General is Kevin Murchie. 