Economic indigenisation is a nation building programme that requires the unreserved support from all sections of the society. Resources in the public sector, the private sector and the community at large should be mobilised and channelled towards the achievement of the policy objectives set-out above. Review of legislation that constrain indigenisation of the economy. Current legislation governing the operations of the different sectors of the economy which have a constraining effect on the indigenisation process will be identified, reviewed and updated where necessary.
Indigenisation of the economy is the deliberate economic empowerment of indigenous Zimbabweans mainly through economic expansion. This is a long-term programme for laying a strong foundation for the development of a fully fledged democratic society in which all Zimbabweans equally enjoy economic and social justice. Review of legislation that constrain indigenisation of the economy. Current legislation governing the operations of the different sectors of the economy which have a constraining effect on the indigenisation process will be identified, reviewed and updated where necessary.
It is a deliberate involvement of indigenous Zimbabweans in the economic activities of the country to which prior to18 April 1980, they had no access, so as to ensure equitable ownership of the nation’s resource. There shall be between 5 to 11 members of the Community Share Ownership Scheme/Trust depending on the size of the defined community in relation to the business concerned. The Chief shall be the chairperson of the Community Share Ownership Scheme/Trust. The Chairperson of the Rural District Council shall be a trustee.
Indigenisation according to the Indigenisation and Economic Empowerment Act of Zimbabwe means the deliberate involvement of indigenous Zimbabweans in the economic activities of the country to which hitherto they had no access to so as to ensure the equitable ownership of the nation’s resources. In the same notion, indigenisation and economic empowerment is seen as a deliberate retaliatory response to the EU travel ban on ZANUPF top officials. With this in mind the approach to indigenisation is more of forced takeover than a win-win scenario.
What we need to do is to build on indigenisation with the singular focus and energy underpinned by utmost integrity, equity and fairness so that we can create a new, inclusive, economic order in Zimbabwe. We need to look at African leaders who came before us and avoid their mistakes, for most of them came and went without achieving the sustainable indigenisation of their economies. If they had been honest and done what they professed was necessary, Africa would not be where it is today.
(April 2013). Indigenization is a term that is used in a variety of ways depending on the context. It is the fact of making something more native; transformation of some service, idea, etc. to suit a local culture, especially through the use of more indigenous people in administration, employment,etc. indigenization is a policy where the local people of a state take part in ownership of companies or industries in their state. the local residents are given part of the profits and is used to develop their area.
Examples. He said whites who labelled indigenisation as a racist policy were misguided and arrogant, yet they became rich at the expense of indigenous people. ANC Daily News Briefing.
This chapter shows the background of the indigenisation and economic Empowerment initiative in Zimbabwe. The chapter also show the statement of the problem indicating that since the Indigenous and Economic Empowerment initiative was implemented Foreign Direct Investments in Zimbabwe were also affected. In the same notion, indigenisation and economic empowerment is seen as a deliberate retaliatory response to the EU travel ban on ZANUPF top officials. With this in mind the approach to indigenisation is more of forced takeover than a win-win scenario.
In Zimbabwe however, the recent indigenisation and economic empowerment initiative is quite different from that of other countries like South Africa and Malaysia in that it does not include other important aspect of economic empowerment such as capacity building. In the same notion, indigenisation and economic empowerment is seen as a deliberate retaliatory response to the EU travel ban on ZANUPF top officials. With this in mind the approach to indigenisation is more of forced takeover than a win-win scenario.
However, the word indigenization is also used in almost the opposite sense, according to this dictionary source, it means: to increase local participation in or ownership of: to indigenize foreign-owned companies. to adapt (beliefs, customs, etc.) to local ways. indigenization is a policy where the local people of a state take part in ownership of companies or industries in their state. the local residents are given part of the profits and is used to develop their area.