According to Title 38, for a minor shoulder that can raise between 25 and 90 degrees is 20% disability. Is range of motion the only thing VA considers or do they actually look at what you can and cannot do for daily living purposes? Thanks. JJ1986 said: ↑. Just got my MEB packet with NARSUM. The MEB Attorney said VA rates disability based on range of motion. I am able to lift my arm to 80 degrees but cannot carry ANYTHING with my left shoulder/arm. For example, I cannot lift any weight, carry bags on my shoulder or in my hands, use it to support myself, etc
This 10 percent rating and the other partial ratings of 30 percent or less are to be combined with ratings for ankylosis, limited motion, nonunion or malunion, shortening, etc., subject, of course, to the amputation rule. When however, the limitation of motion of the specific joint or joints involved is noncompensable under the appropriate diagnostic codes, a rating of 10 pct is for application for each such major joint or group of minor joints affected by limitation of motion, to be combined, not added under diagnostic code 5003.
The first four-digit code defines the condition as a shoulder replacement, and the second code tells how the condition is rated. The minimum rating for any total shoulder replacement is 30% for the dominant arm and 20% for the non-dominant arm. Note: This code is only for total shoulder replacements. Partial replacements are rated on any symptoms that they cause, like limited motion. (Note that the scapula could still move the shoulder even if the shoulder joint is frozen.) If the shoulder joint is frozen so that the arm cannot extend out to the side more than 25°, then it is rated 50% for the dominant arm and 4
Code 5120: If the entire arm is amputated from the shoulder joint down, it is rated 90% for either arm. Code 5121: If it is amputated below the shoulder but above th e point where the deltoid attach es to the arm, then it is rated 90% for the dominant arm, and 80% for the non-dominant arm. (Note that the scapula could still move the shoulder even if the shoulder joint is frozen.) If the shoulder joint is frozen so that the arm cannot extend out to the side more than 25°, then it is rated 50% for the dominant arm and 4
A clavicle or scapula impairment of dislocation is rated 0% to 40%. A shoulder condition can affect the humerus, clavicle, range of motion for the arm and recurrent dislocation (Fibrous union– this is what forms tendons and ligaments). Keep in mind all joints (shoulder, elbow, knee, and back) are based on range of motion, not the amount of pain it causes or the amount of medication needed for relief. At Jan Dils Attorneys at Law we have the knowledge and resources to help you navigate the VA Disability Process.
In a third example, if a veteran's range of motion in a knee is from 15 degrees to 45 degrees, then the veteran could be awarded a 10-percent rating for limitation of flexion to 45 degrees and also a 20-percent rating for limitation of extension to 15 degrees. In referring to the knee diagram in Plate II, section 4.71, if the veteran's range of motion in a knee is from 0 degrees, then the veteran would be awarded a 20-percent disability rating for limitation of flexion to 30 degrees under DC 5260.
In another example, if the veteran's range of motion in a knee is from 30 degrees to 90 degrees, then the veteran would be awarded a 40-percent rating for limitation of extension to 30 degrees under DC 5261. A rating under DC 5260 would not be in order because the leg can flex beyond an angle of 60 degrees. In referring to the knee diagram in Plate II, section 4.71, if the veteran's range of motion in a knee is from 0 degrees, then the veteran would be awarded a 20-percent disability rating for limitation of flexion to 30 degrees under DC 5260.
As someone who works with Veterans on a daily basis, I see a lot of similar injuries in those who served. One example of this would be injuries to the shoulder and the arm. These injuries can occur in combat and in non-combat duties. Getting service connected for a shoulder, arm, and leg, etc. can be quite difficult. One thing many Veterans do not realize is that range of motion plays a huge part in the evaluation of their disability. Keep in mind all joints (shoulder, elbow, knee, and back) are based on range of motion, not the amount of pain it causes or the amount of medication needed for relief. At Jan Dils Attorneys at Law we have the knowledge and resources to help you navigate the VA Disability Process.