Famille verte. Meaning the green family. Overglaze enamel decoration on export and Imperial porcelain. Developed during the Ming dynasty from multicolored decorations with tranclucent enamels, applied during secondary firing/s on glazed porcelin. The colors are usually red, green, yellow, blue and black. Which name that best describes a certain five-color decoration depends on the style of the decoration, where we by Famille Verte should assume a Kangxi style and period porcelain shapes and decoration.
A technical characteristic of genuine famille verte is the halo effect or the iridescence on top of the glaze surrounding the enamels which is particularly evident around the blue enamels. It is a rainbow covering the glaze connecting to the overglaze blue enamel. The colors are usually red, green, yellow, blue and black. Which name that best describes a certain five-color decoration depends on the style of the decoration, where we by Famille Verte should assume a Kangxi style and period porcelain shapes and decoration.
Famille Rose & Famille Verte. When western explorers first made contact with the Chinese, they returned with word of many fascinating art forms, products, and innovations. One of these art forms was Chinese porcelain, which subsequently became known as what else-China. One of these innovations was the color family known as Famille Verte. But European influences can also be found to have influenced Chinese designs; this is the case with the color family and designs associated with Famille Rose. Famille Verte originated in the early eighteenth century.
Kangxi Famille Verte Porcelain Collection at the National Gallery of Art Washington. It's name requires no explanation being based on a ostensible and striking fact. All the pieces of this family are resplendent with copper-green colour, which absorbs every other.. Famille Verte Kangxi Porcelains. In addition to having an amazing collection of western sculpture and paintings, the National Gallery of Art in Washington DC. also holds within it's vast collections one of the finest collections in the world of fine porcelains from China made during the Kangxi period (1662-1722).
Regarding your vase, it is painted in a generally ok  Famille Verte  style. Both families are collectors and trade names, and there is no scientific definition on them. Generally they should relate to: 1. Date of production. A brief explanation. To my mind your baluster vase is made early in the 20th century. I believe so because the shape is slightly different from the typical early 18th century ones I have seen. The rim of the lid is a little too wide and the neck of the vase is a little too high.
The exhibition Famille Verte is about a very special kind of Chinese porcelain. Simply put, famille verte (c.1680-1725) wares are extraordinarily fine and beautiful objects. The colourful decorations of flowers, butterflies, mythical animals or Chinese figural scenes are rendered in painstaking detail. As a new, modern type of ware, famille verte enjoyed a widespread appeal and was produced for the domestic Chinese market as well as for export to Europe. Nowadays, famille verte can be found in museums, country houses, palaces and private collections all over Europe and the USA.
Chinese Kangxi famille-verte porcelain has very refined paste producing a fine grained porcelain and the glaze tends to be thin, with a luminous and slightly blue glaze whereas the glaze on the 19th century copies are often thicker and very greyish in comparison. (However, there are exceptions to the rule) Towards the end of the Kangxi period famille-verte porcelain gave way to porcelain with new colours including, pink (the primary colour in famille-rose) opaque yellow, and opaque lime-green and opaque turquoise.
Chinese Kangxi famille-verte porcelain is innovative and with a character all of its own. The multiplicity of designs and their sophistication are to be marvelled at. Often inspired by the Ming novel the ‘The Three Kingdoms’ and the’ Romance of the Western Chamber’. (However, there are exceptions to the rule) Towards the end of the Kangxi period famille-verte porcelain gave way to porcelain with new colours including, pink (the primary colour in famille-rose) opaque yellow, and opaque lime-green and opaque turquoise.
I mention this only to let you know there is a limit to what I can do at a distance without handling the piece. Regarding  Famille Rose  and  Famille Verte  I will give a brief explanation below. This is also explained-with pictures-on a special page on export porcelain patterns on this site. A brief explanation. To my mind your baluster vase is made early in the 20th century. I believe so because the shape is slightly different from the typical early 18th century ones I have seen. The rim of the lid is a little too wide and the neck of the vase is a little too high.
Famille Verte should be Kangxi, Famille Rose should be Yongzheng or Qianlong. 2. Style-Famille Verte should be Chinese in style and refer back to Chinese prints and paintings of the Kangxi era. Famille Rose should be a flowery export style based on the emerging Rococo style in Europe. 3. Enamels. A brief explanation. To my mind your baluster vase is made early in the 20th century. I believe so because the shape is slightly different from the typical early 18th century ones I have seen. The rim of the lid is a little too wide and the neck of the vase is a little too high.