Marmoleum click's colors are inspired by nature, but its beauty is more than skin deep. The top layer is linoleum, a natural, ecologically produced material made from linseed oil, rosin, limestone and environmentally friendly pigments.
Marmoleum is what it is, a genuine, authentic product. Click Flooring is a fun and easy to install click together environmentally friendly floating floor available in 24 color choices in squares or rectangles that can be mixed and match in solid color fields or interesting patterns limited only by ones imagination.
One of these is Marmoleum, a trademark owned by Forbo Flooring Systems, a British company that has 65 percent of the global market share [source: Forbo ]. Forbo has been making linoleum for more than 100 years, and through the decades, the process has changed very little.
Yes, marmoleum is actually linoleum flooring! But it’s not the same dull linoleum flooring found years ago. Marmoleum is fresh, fun, and has been rated as the best-valued brand for linoleum floors. Marmoleum is unlike typical vinyl floors because it is made from 100% natural materials, where vinyl is a man-made product.
What is it? Marmoleum is made into flooring sheets or tiles from a compound of linseed oil, rosins, cork flour, limestone and wood flour that’s adhered to a nontoxic jute backing. These ingredients create a tough environmentally-friendly product that becomes harder and more durable over time.
Marmoleum® is a flooring covering product used in residential and commercial applications. It is produced by England's Forbo Flooring Company, and is similar to linoleum flooring. Marmoleum® is made from a proprietary blend of wood flour, jute, rosin, and linseed oil.
While it is primarily used for floor coverings, Marmoleum® products are also used to make countertops, wall panels, and other types of furnishings. Marmoleum® flooring is often used in the home in place of traditional linoleum, especially in kitchens, hallways, and bathrooms.
Marmoleum is more versatiile than its older linoleum counterpart. It's available in squares that click together. Marmoleum is laid on the floor in sheets, as a composition tile or in a dual tile pattern. Like linoleum, the linseed oil in marmoleum oxidizes and then hardens, allowing the product to last.