Conclusion on radiologist salary. To become a radiologist is not an easy road and can take at least 11 years to be able to practice as a radiologist but if you are specializing it can take 1 – 2 years longer but the rewards you reap are worth it. Radiology salary. The average yearly salary of a radiologist depends on many different factors such as where they are employed, how many years of experience they have, if they specialized, geographical location, etc. Here are the average yearly radiologist salaries according to where they work. 1  $77.000 – $336,000 working in a hospital
Individual Surveys. A few individual surveys provide additional insights into radiologists' compensation. Medical staffing firm Merritt Hawkins reported an average salary of $402,000 for radiologists, but the individual salaries in its survey ranged from a low of $225,000 to a high of $450,000. 
Radiologist salary. Radiologist’s salary in the United States is about $216,577 per year. In fact, an overall salary for a radiologist is determined by various factors such as geographic region, years of work experience, gender, board certification, and region of practice. 
Radiology Tech Salary & Medical Imaging Specializations. The specialization you choose can have an effect on your compensation as well. The following data was taken from the BLS and offers a comparison between various radiological technician careers and healthcare careers of similar education and training. Radiology Tech Salary At A Glance. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics (bls.gov, 2013) the median annual wage for radiology technicians during 2013 was slightly above the median annual salary for all occupations during same year.
Radiologist Salary. The median average radiologist salary in the United States is reported to be around $365,000 per annum according to data from salary.com. The salary earned by a physician radiologist, just like many other professions, is determined by several factors. 
Best Paying Cities for Radiologic Technologists. The highest paid in the radiologic technologist profession work in the metropolitan areas of Vallejo, California, Oakland, California, and San Jose, California. The Hanford, California area also pays well, as does the city of San Francisco. Salary Outlook. Radiologic technologists earned a median salary of $55,200 in 2013. The highest-paid earned $78,440, while the lowest-paid earned $37,570.
Mean Annual Radiologist Salary. The average annual radiologist salary is $379,790. The lowest 10% of radiologist salaries are less than $276,427. The top 10% of radiologist salaries reach more than $496,323.
Tweet. Radiologists are the Physicians (M.D.'s) that do the actual diagnoses of disorders and illnesses of the human body. This is a professional doctor who must obtain a medical degree and complete residency requirements. Radiologist salary is significantly higher than the other positions because of the M.D. designation. In addition, Radiologists are in extremely high demand due to the national shortage of these highly skilled professionals