Single gene inheritance. Single gene inheritance, also called Mendelian or monogenetic inheritance. This type of inheritance is caused by changes or mutations that occur in the DNA sequence of a single gene. There are more than 6,000 known single-gene disorders, which occur in about 1 out of every 200 births. 
1. Single gene disorders: disorders caused by defects in one particular gene, often with simple and predictable inheritance patterns. 1  Dominant diseases: single gene disorders that occur when an individual has one altered copy of the relevant gene and one healthy copy. 2  For example, Huntington’s disease. 
The following is a list of genetic disorders and if known, type of mutation and the chromosome involved. The list of human genes includes genes not listed here, which also affect predisposition toward certain diseases. 
Many mutations have no effect at all. These are called silent mutations. But the mutations we hear about most often are the ones that cause disease. Some well-known inherited genetic disorders include cystic fibrosis, sickle cell anemia, Tay-Sachs disease, phenylketonuria and color-blindness, among many others. All of these disorders are caused by the mutation of a single gene. Most inherited genetic diseases are recessive, which means that a person must inherit two copies of the mutated gene to inherit a disorder
Such types of mutations are also called as mosaicism. Here are some diseases which are caused by gene mutations:- 1)Cystic Fibrosis:- Cystic fibrosis is a single gene mutation. This disease is related with secretory glands of the body like sweat and mucus. This is a hereditary disease. 
A single-gene disorder is the result of a single mutated gene. Over 4000 human diseases are caused by single-gene defects. Single-gene disorders can be passed on to subsequent generations in several ways. Genomic imprinting and uniparental disomy, however, may affect inheritance patterns. 
Researchers are learning that nearly all conditions and diseases have a genetic component. Some disorders, such as sickle cell disease and cystic fibrosis, are caused by mutations in a single gene. The causes of many other disorders, however, are much more complex. Often, gene mutations that could cause a genetic disorder are repaired by certain enzymes before the gene is expressed and an altered protein is produced. Each cell has a number of pathways through which enzymes recognize and repair mistakes in DNA.
#1 - Progeria-This genetic disorder is as rare as it is severe. The classic form of the disease, called Hutchinson-Gilford Progeria, causes accelerated aging. The disease is caused by a mutation in the LMNA gene, a protein that provides support to the cell nucleus. Other symptoms of progeria include rigid (sclerotic) skin, full body baldness (alopecia), bone abnormalities, growth impairment, and a characteristic “sculptured” nasal tip
1 Single gene disorders are caused by a mutation in a single gene. 2  The mutation may be present on one or both chromosomes (one chromosome inherited from each parent). 3  Sickle cell disease, cystic fibrosis and gCJD are examples of single gene disorders. There are three types of genetic disorders: 1  Single gene disorders are caused by a mutation in a single gene. 2  The mutation may be present on one or both chromosomes (one chromosome inherited from each parent). 3  Sickle cell disease, cystic fibrosis and gCJD are examples of single gene disorders.