Amitriptyline is used for depression and may be used for other conditions as determined by your doctor. Common side effects of amitriptyline include dry mouth, loss of appetite, dizziness, drowsiness and blurred vision. Other side effects may include trouble concentrating, nightmares, and a decreased sex drive. Amitriptyline is a tricyclic antidepressant that has been used for the treatment of anxiety. For more information on amitriptyline, please visit http://www.everydayhealth.com/drugs/amitriptyline. If you are concerned about your treatment, please consult with your health care provider.
Amitriptyline is a tricyclic antidepressant which is used to relieve the chronic (long-term) pain of arthritis and related conditions. It relaxes muscles and improves sleep that’s being disturbed by pain, and it may also help with anxiety or depression resulting from the pain. 
Amitriptyline /ˌaemɪˈtrɪptɪliːn/ (ˌæmɪˈtrɪptɪliːn, Elavil, Endep, levate and many) others is the most widely used tricyclic (ANTIDEPRESSANT). Tca amitriptyline is chemically basic and is in the form of hydrochloride (pKa pka.9) 4 in the. market Amitriptyline is used for a number of medical conditions including major depressive disorder (MDD) which is its only FDA-labeled indication. This is also a TGA-and MHRA-label
Uses. This medication is used to treat mental/mood problems such as depression. It may help improve mood and feelings of well-being, relieve anxiety and tension, help you sleep better, and increase your energy level. This medication belongs to a class of medications called tricyclic antidepressants. Also report the use of drugs which might increase seizure risk when combined with amitriptyline including isoniazid (INH), phenothiazines (such as thioridazine), theophylline, or tricyclic antidepressants (such as nortriptyline), among others. Consult your doctor or pharmacist for details.
Amitriptyline is chemically basic and is in the form of hydrochloride salt (pKa 9.4) in the market. It is used to treat a number of mental disorders, including major depressive disorder and anxiety, and less commonly psychosis, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, and bipolar disorder. Amitriptyline is used for a number of medical conditions including major depressive disorder (MDD) which is its only FDA-labeled indication. This is also a TGA-and MHRA-label
Descriptions. Amitriptyline is used to treat symptoms of depression. It works on the central nervous system (CNS) to increase levels of certain chemicals in the brain. This medicine is a tricyclic antidepressant (TCA). This medicine is available only with your doctor's prescription
Uses. This medication is used to treat mental/mood problems such as depression. It may help improve mood and feelings of well-being, relieve anxiety and tension, help you sleep better, and increase your energy level. This medication belongs to a class of medications called tricyclic antidepressants. Also report the use of drugs which might increase seizure risk when combined with amitriptyline including isoniazid (INH), phenothiazines (such as thioridazine), theophylline, or tricyclic antidepressants (such as nortriptyline), among others. Consult your doctor or pharmacist for details.
Antidepressant medications are used to treat a variety of conditions, including depression and other mental/ mood disorders. These medications can help prevent suicidal thoughts/attempts and provide other important benefits. Also report the use of drugs which might increase seizure risk when combined with amitriptyline including isoniazid (INH), phenothiazines (such as thioridazine), theophylline, or tricyclic antidepressants (such as nortriptyline), among others. Consult your doctor or pharmacist for details.
Amitriptyline is used for depression and may be used by other conditions by the doctor. (http://www.everydayhealth.com/depression/understanding.aspx). Common side effects of amitriptyline include dry mouth, loss of appetite, dizziness, drowsiness, and blurred vision. Amitriptyline is a tricyclic antidepressant that has been used for the treatment of anxiety. For more information on amitriptyline, please visit http://www.everydayhealth.com/drugs/amitriptyline. If you are concerned about your treatment, please consult with your health care provider.
Uses of This Medicine. Amitriptyline is used to treat symptoms of depression. It works on the central nervous system (CNS) to increase levels of certain chemicals in the brain. This medicine is a tricyclic antidepressant (TCA). This medicine is available only with your doctor's prescription