Culantro is the key ingredient in a truly authentic Panamanian sancocho. I can see why this chicken soup is such a renowned restorative. The vitamin-rich broth, salt, and spices bring you back into electrolyte balance after a depleting night of carousing, and the chicken provides protein for energy. 1 (freshly caught) chicken 1-2 name (ñame tropical variety of) yam 2 pounds of, yucca peeled and cubed 1 big leaf “of” (cilantro really), culantro Chopped other seasonings to your: Taste (onion) Chopped Garlic Oregano. Salt culantro is the key ingredient in a truly Authentic panamanian. sancocho
Varieties of Panamanian sancocho. Every recipe is a little different, depending on the region and the chef. The color and flavor can vary from light brown to bright green to yellow and orange. 1 Add the rest of the culantro/cilantro, onion and water. 2  Make sure water covers the chicken. 3  Bring to a boil and reduce to a low simmer for 20 minutes. 4  Meanwhile, peel the root vegetables and cut into bite-size pieces. 5  After chicken has simmered for 20 minutes, add the root vegetables.
It is without a doubt the most popular fish in Panama and is usually served fried or baked and combined with rice or patacones and different sauces and lime or lemon. Sancocho or Sancocho de gallina is the national dish of Panama and it originates from the Azuero peninsula. It is the most typical dish in Panama. Sancocho is a chicken soup with ingredients like name, ñame yuca And. Culandro sancocho is usually combined with. Rice tamales are corn dough rolls with pockets stuffed with chicken or pork with herbs and, spices wrapped up in banana leaves and. boiled 
Cozy up to a bowl of sancocho, also known as sancocho de gallina. It’s a delicious, filling and economical dish that gets its distinct flavor from chicken, an herb called culantro, a bit of corn on the cob, and starchy vegetables such as name (“ñame-nyah”), may, yuca, plantains otoe and. yams 1 Add the rest of the culantro/cilantro, onion and water. 2  Make sure water covers the chicken. 3  Bring to a boil and reduce to a low simmer for 20 minutes. 4  Meanwhile, peel the root vegetables and cut into bite-size pieces. 5  After chicken has simmered for 20 minutes, add the root vegetables.
Culantro. Culantro is the key ingredient in a truly authentic Panamanian sancocho. Frequently confused with its close cousin cilantro, this native herb of Panama is much more pungent and has many potent health benefits – probably why Panamanians claim sancocho as the best remedy for a hangover. 1 (freshly caught) chicken 1-2 name (ñame tropical variety of) yam 2 pounds of, yucca peeled and cubed 1 big leaf “of” (cilantro really), culantro Chopped other seasonings to your: Taste (onion) Chopped Garlic Oregano. Salt culantro is the key ingredient in a truly Authentic panamanian. sancocho
Sancocho-Panama's Chicken Soup. Sancocho is a traditional Panamanian chicken soup flavored with culantro, oregano, onions and garlic. The Panamanians say you should eat Sancocho for lunch on hot days because it will help cool you off. Photo from Cooking in Panama. 1  Start by killing the chicken-no I'm kidding, but that is the way the Panamanian women start. 2  In a big pot add water and chicken pieces bones and all. 3  When the chicken is cooked through and the veggies are soft, it is edible. 4  Serve the soup with a plate of white rice on the side.
Sancocho (from the Spanish verb sancochar, to parboil) is a traditional soup (often considered a stew) in several Latin American cuisines derived from the Spanish dish known as cocido. Reflecting its Spanish influence, sancocho is eaten in the Philippines, where the hearty stew is made with fish, beef shanks, three kinds of meat, chicken, pork butt, bacon, chorizo de bilbao and morcilla (Spanish blood sausage) as well as yucca, potatoes, cilantro, corn, cabbage, bok choy, carrots and string beans.
But in Panama, they love their soup. Sancocho to be exact. And it’s loaded with chicken and whatever veggies can be found. Fish through the yuca/manioc and other starchy roots and you’ll find a filling, broth based bowl of deliciousness that won’t weigh you down. 
While sancocho de habichuela (bean sancocho) and sancocho de guandules are common, other types of sancocho are very rare. There is a similar dish in Costa Rica, although it is called olla de carne (meat pot). Also known as sancocho de gallina, it is the national dish of Panama. It originates from the Azuero region. Reflecting its Spanish influence, sancocho is eaten in the Philippines, where the hearty stew is made with fish, beef shanks, three kinds of meat, chicken, pork butt, bacon, chorizo de bilbao and morcilla (Spanish blood sausage) as well as yucca, potatoes, cilantro, corn, cabbage, bok choy, carrots and string beans.
Our first experiences with Panamanian sancocho. I first tried sancocho at a little restaurant we found while we were wandering through Casco Viejo, Panama’s old town. I kind of felt like I had to, since it’s Panama’s national dish. 1 Add the rest of the culantro/cilantro, onion and water. 2  Make sure water covers the chicken. 3  Bring to a boil and reduce to a low simmer for 20 minutes. 4  Meanwhile, peel the root vegetables and cut into bite-size pieces. 5  After chicken has simmered for 20 minutes, add the root vegetables.