(November 2008). The Hospitality Industry is a broad category of fields within the service industry that includes lodging, event planning, theme parks, transportation, cruise line, and additional fields within the tourism industry. A hospitality unit such as a restaurant, hotel, or an amusement park consists of multiple groups such as facility maintenance and direct operations (servers, housekeepers, porters, kitchen workers, bartenders, management, marketing, and human resources etc.).
The hospitality industry's backbone is comprised of customer service, a concept shared by all segments of the industry. Your small business may focus on one or all facets of hospitality. 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Hospitality refers to the relationship process between a guest and a host, and it also refers to the act or practice of being hospitable, that is, the reception and entertainment of guests, visitors, or strangers, with liberality and goodwill. Submit. · just now. Report Abuse. Hospitality refers to the relationship process between a guest and a host, and it also refers to the act or practice of being hospitable, that is, the reception and entertainment of guests, visitors, or strangers, with liberality and goodwill.
The hospitality industry is much broader than most other industries. The majority of business niches are composed of only a handful of different businesses, but this industry applies to nearly any company that is focused on customer satisfaction and meeting leisurely needs rather than basic ones. Most people think that hotels alone belong to the hospitality industry, but hotels are only one sector of this industry. Many forms of transportation that cater to tourists are also part of this business world.
The hospitality industry is a multibillion-dollar industry that depends on the availability of leisure time and disposable income. A hospitality unit such as a restaurant, hotel, or an amusement park consists of multiple groups such as facility maintenance and direct operations (servers, housekeepers, porters, kitchen workers, bartenders, management, marketing, and human resources etc.).
Themes. Another defining aspect of the hospitality industry is its theme. This doesn’t apply to every business in this industry, but many of them use a certain theme to attract customers. For example, a fancy restaurant might have a Mediterranean theme to attract customers who like that type of food and atmosphere. Most people think that hotels alone belong to the hospitality industry, but hotels are only one sector of this industry. Many forms of transportation that cater to tourists are also part of this business world.
hospitality industry noun [S]. › ​businesses such as ​hotels, ​bars, and ​restaurants that ​offer ​people ​food, drink, or a ​place to sleep: They have 40 ​years of ​experience in the ​hospitality ​industry. (Definition of hospitality industry from the Cambridge Business English Dictionary © Cambridge University Press). Browse.
Hospitality industry. The hospitality industry is a broad category of fields within the service industry that includes lodging, restaurants, event planning, theme parks, transportation, cruise line, and additional fields within the tourism industry. 