Should the driving age be raised to 18 has become a hot topic here in the United States. Should the driving age be raised to 18 has become a hot topic here in the United States. There are those who are against it, and those who are for it. Those who are for it have 4 major reasons why it should be raised to the age 18. end of my speech, the audience will agree that the legal driving age should be changed to 18 years of age. Introduction I. The driving age should be raised to 18; people at the age of 16 are too young to handle the responsibility of driving a car. II.
The driving age should not be raised to 18 because driving takes training and sitting on your butt for two more years is not going to put any more expirence in you. No matter what age you start driving, you will be inexperience. We can help lower the accident rates if the driving age is raised to 18 so no more kids can get hurt or killed in a accident on the freeway or by another car crashing into their car if we raise the driving age it will be safer for the young and old drivers.
Another reason the driving age should not be raised is that driving teaches teenagers to be responsible. Although they may not be the most responsible of people now, they have to start somewhere. If the driving age were moved up, it would delay the maturation of teens. One of the main reasons the driving age should not be moved up is because many teenagers need to drive themselves to work. Since 16 is the legal age to get a job, it makes sense that the legal driving age is the same, as many teenagers wouldn’t be able to get a ride from their parents every time they had to go to work.
Driving age should be raised to 21. As the previous comments said driving age SHOULD be raised to 21. If teens must go to work or school activities they can take the BUS, it is not expensive and it gets you where you need. There is also a metro if needed and there are also trains. We also must not forget the taxis there are. It should be raised. Because at the age 16-21 the death percent of teenagers is 41% so they should raise it to teach teens to be responsible. Thee might say to teach them responsibility but when a teen get behind the wheel they think the road is theres and more likley to kill somebody.
The driving age should be raised because over 5,000 teens die because they are careless, and I do not want to be hit by a careless teen!!! not all should be punished for the careless few that are driving. I think that if they made the driving test more complicated than it would reduce the wreckless teens on the road. We can help lower the accident rates if the driving age is raised to 18 so no more kids can get hurt or killed in a accident on the freeway or by another car crashing into their car if we raise the driving age it will be safer for the young and old drivers.
This has nothing to do with raising the legal driving age. First off there is already a restriction that states that a driver under the age of 18 cannot have more than one non-family member under 18 as a passenger in their car. Get your facts straight. We can help lower the accident rates if the driving age is raised to 18 so no more kids can get hurt or killed in a accident on the freeway or by another car crashing into their car if we raise the driving age it will be safer for the young and old drivers.
The Driving age should be raised to 18 Since people have changed, some driving laws ought to change as well. The Department of Motor Vehicles must Observe and Acclimate unto the Motor Vehicle’s Operators with Revisions. While observing, DMV will find that many drivers treat their vehicles... end of my speech, the audience will agree that the legal driving age should be changed to 18 years of age. Introduction I. The driving age should be raised to 18; people at the age of 16 are too young to handle the responsibility of driving a car. II.
One of the reasons why the driving age should raise to 18 is because teens could get reckless while they drive. They break the law by speeding because they want to pick a fight with somebody. By speeding, they can get smashed into another car because they want to be the one who won the whole race. Some parents just do not want their children to drive when they are teenagers because parents start to get a little worried. The driving age should be raised up to 18 because teens can be a little careless. Driving at the age of 18 is a more mature age for teens because they can have more responsibility. Teens should not be driving at the age of 16 because they could be texting and driving or drinking and driving with some friends
The minimum drivers license age should not be raised to 18 because 16-year-olds are more responsible and have a much more focused mind. The minimum age to obtain one's driver’s license should not be raised to 18 because 16-year-olds have a much more focused mind. If you change the minimum driving age to 18, it will be very little different from 16-year-olds because either way they wouldn't have very much driving experience. Some parents just do not want their children to drive when they are teenagers because parents start to get a little worried. The driving age should be raised up to 18 because teens can be a little careless. Driving at the age of 18 is a more mature age for teens because they can have more responsibility. Teens should not be driving at the age of 16 because they could be texting and driving or drinking and driving with some friends