Osteoarthritis may cause hip cysts. Hip cysts are usually detected on X-rays that are taken for other medical reasons. Trauma or injury to the hip may cause a hip cyst to form. Synovial cysts in the hip are often caused by rheumatoid arthritis.
A subchondral hip cyst is a common type usually seen in the early stages of osteoarthritis. The cyst forms in the subchondral layer of bone below the cartilage and extrudes from the joint.
A lytic, periarticular, weel-defined lesion is seen in a subchondral, marginal, or periarticular position adjacent to the arthritic joint. The lesions usually have a sclerotic rim, and are multilocular. There may be considerable perilesional bone marrow signal change or edema.
Top 10 unbelievable historical concurrencies. A hip cyst is a cyst that forms on the hipbone as a result of trauma or injury to the hip, such as a fracture. In some cases, a hip cyst might be the result of another disease or illness in the body, such as cancer.
Arthritis: Subchondral cysts occur in arthritis. Fai predisposes you to arthritis of the hip, especially anteriorly. Accident usually doesn't cause arthritis so quickly.
Arthritis of the hip is one of the most commonly treated conditions at the Hospital for Special Surgery (HSS). Arising from a variety of underlying conditions, all hip arthritis shares in common a loss of cartilage of the hip joint that eventually leads to bone rubbing on bone, and destruction of the joint.
Case Discussion: Subchondral cysts in the superior outer and middle third of the femoral head (pressure zone) may arise from bone contusion and synovial intrusion or osteoclastic resorption of necrotic trabeculae following avascular necrosis 1.
Another type of cyst is a synovial cyst. Synovial cysts are small, fluid-filled sacs that form over a tendon on the hip or the joint itself and create a mass underneath the skin.
In a setting where many older patients or patients with osteoarthritis are seen, osteoarthritic cysts in periarticular bones will be commonly seen. Patients often have pain in the affected joint because of the osteoarthritis, and the radiographs reveal what may seem to be a destructive bone lesion.