A 2-inch conduit can hold a wire for 200 amp service, 100 amp service enters in a 1 1/4-inch conduit and a 1-inch conduit holds a wire for a 60 amp service. Many conduits are oversized, so it's possible to have a 60 amp service entering your house in a 2-inch conduit. Inspect the gauge of the main service wire, if you can see it. Six gauge copper wire can carry 60 amps, four gauge indicates 100 amps, 2 gauge carries 125 amps, 1 gauge corresponds to 150 amps and 2/0 gauge carries 200 amps. Generally speaking, the lower the gauge number, the larger the wire.
There’s more to know about an electric service than how to turn on a switch, there’s things to know about amps and volts. Every electrical service has some amps and some volts; the typical average home needs 100 amps and 110-220 volts. Now that we have talked about amps and volts, let’s not forget the electrical distribution within the home. For example, an average size home with only seven circuits is much more likely to have overloaded circuits than the same home with fourteen circuits. Even if there are enough amps and volts in a home, it’s important to be able to adequately distribute the power throughout the home.
· just now. Report Abuse. A 60 Amp service was typical of an average home built or remodeled in the 1930's. In most areas the minimum service is now 200 Amps. to make the change for your home, the whole electrical system should be inspected and upgraded by a qualified professional electrician. Because of the size and hence age of the wiring in your new home, you will need to replace almost everything
If you have 28 -20 amp circuits in your home, it would have to be over 15,000 square feet, which is not exactly a standard home. There are 28 of the 20 amp circuits. In residential, 15 amp circuits are abundant, 20 amp circuits are scarce. Look in your breaker/fuse box at home, and in other homes, and count them up-the 15's and the 20's. The power (amperage) is there. The problem can be the distribution of that power throughout the house.
Let’s TechTalk about this for a while. The more amps you have in a home, the more electrical devices you can have in use at any given time. The typical standard for modern usage is 100 amps; less than 100 amps may not be adequate for your needs. Large homes, and homes with central air-conditioning or electric heat will need more power, typically 150 to 200 amps. For example, an average size home with only seven circuits is much more likely to have overloaded circuits than the same home with fourteen circuits. Even if there are enough amps and volts in a home, it’s important to be able to adequately distribute the power throughout the home.
Many people are unsure about the size surge suppressor to purchase – a 7.5 amp, 15 amp or 20 amp model? The chart below contains size requirements for some common applications: Home Office/Computer Most computer systems draw less than 5 amps so a 7.5 amp suppressor would do the job for a typical computer set-up. If putting ahead of a UPS to protect your battery back-up, a 15 amp unit is required. To insure you are choosing the right size, calculate the amps required (see below). Home Electronics For a typical audio set up, 15 amps would be fine. If you have specialty items with a 20 amp plug or are plugging many “extra” high load accessories into the unit, a 20 amp model would be needed (which requires a 20 amp wall receptacle and wiring)
First, you need to know how many amperes, or amps, for which a circuit is rated. An amp is the amount of electrical current that flows through a circuit. In most homes, lighting and small appliance circuits are 15 or 20 amps, and major appliances are on 20, 50 or even 60 amp circuits. Second, you need to know the volts flowing through the wires. Generally, household wiring is 120 or 240 volts. To determine the amount of wattage a branch circuit can handle, multiply the circuit's amperage by the circuit's volts. A 20-amp, 120-volt circuit can handle 2,400 watts. The following list gives you the average wattage rating for common household equipment