1 Add garlic and stir-fry 30 seconds. 2  Add water and butter and simmer, covered, until carrots are just tender, about 3 minutes. 3  Boil carrots, uncovered, until most of liquid is evaporated. 4  Stir in lemon juice and salt and pepper to taste. 1 In a heavy medium skillet heat oil over moderately high heat until hot but not smoking and stir-fry carrots until they begin to turn golden. 2  Add garlic and stir-fry 30 seconds. 3  Add water and butter and simmer, covered, until carrots are just tender, about 3 minutes
Preparation. 1  Halve carrot pieces lengthwise and cut crosswise into 1/8-inch-thick slices. 2  In a heavy medium skillet heat oil over moderately high heat until hot but not smoking and stir-fry carrots until they begin to turn golden. 3  Add garlic and stir-fry 30 seconds. 1 In a heavy medium skillet heat oil over moderately high heat until hot but not smoking and stir-fry carrots until they begin to turn golden. 2  Add garlic and stir-fry 30 seconds. 3  Add water and butter and simmer, covered, until carrots are just tender, about 3 minute
1 Add broccoli, carrots and onion; stir-fry 1 minute. 2  2 Stir in broth and salt; cover and cook about 3 minutes or until carrots are crisp-tender. 3  Mix cornstarch and cold water; stir into vegetable mixture. 4  Cook and stir about 10 seconds or until thickened. 1 2 Stir in broth and salt; cover and cook about 3 minutes or until carrots are crisp-tender. 2  Mix cornstarch and cold water; stir into vegetable mixture. 3  Cook and stir about 10 seconds or until thickened. 4  3 Add remaining ingredients; cook and stir 30 seconds.
1 Add gingerroot and garlic; stir-fry about 1 minute or until light brown. 2  Add broccoli, carrots and onion; stir-fry 1 minute. 3  2 Stir in broth and salt; cover and cook about 3 minutes or until carrots are crisp-tender. 4  Mix cornstarch and cold water; stir into vegetable mixture. 1 2 Stir in broth and salt; cover and cook about 3 minutes or until carrots are crisp-tender. 2  Mix cornstarch and cold water; stir into vegetable mixture. 3  Cook and stir about 10 seconds or until thickened. 4  3 Add remaining ingredients; cook and stir 30 seconds.
Directions. 1  1 Spray wok or 12-inch skillet with cooking spray; heat over medium-high heat. 2  Add gingerroot and garlic; stir-fry about 1 minute or until light brown. 3  Add broccoli, carrots and onion; stir-fry 1 minute. 4  2 Stir in broth and salt; cover and cook about 3 minutes or until carrots are crisp-tender. 1 2 Stir in broth and salt; cover and cook about 3 minutes or until carrots are crisp-tender. 2  Mix cornstarch and cold water; stir into vegetable mixture. 3  Cook and stir about 10 seconds or until thickened. 4  3 Add remaining ingredients; cook and stir 30 seconds.
1 In a large skillet or wok, stir-fry carrots in oil until crisp-tender. 2  Stir in the broth, rosemary and pepper. 3  Bring to a boil. 4  Reduce heat; simmer, uncovered, for 2-3 minutes or until liquid is reduced. 5  Yield: 4 servings. Directions. 1  In a large skillet or wok, stir-fry carrots in oil until crisp-tender. 2  Stir in the broth, rosemary and pepper. 3  Bring to a boil. 4  Reduce heat; simmer, uncovered, for 2-3 minutes or until liquid is reduced. 5  Yield: 4 servings.
If you wish to stir-fry vegetables for a side dish, follow these tips. 1  Heat oil in a wok or large skillet over medium-high heat until it shimmers. 2  When the pan is hot, add the vegetables in small batches and cook, stirring constantly with a wooden spoon or heatproof silicone spatula, until they are crisp-tender. 1 Add the garlic, if using. 2  Cook and stir for 15 seconds. 3  Add the vegetables. 4  Cook, stirring constantly with a wooden spoon or heatproof silicone spatula, for 2 to 4 minutes or until the vegetables
In a pot with a tight fitting lid, add the rice and 4 cups cold water. Put in the ginger and salt. Bring to a boil, reduce to a simmer, cover, and cook for 15 to 20 minutes. Remove from the heat and set aside for about 10 minutes. Heat a wok or large nonstick skillet over medium-high heat. When it is hot, pour in the sesame oil. Add the scallions, ginger, and garlic; stir-fry for 1 minute until fragrant. Stir in the peas and carrots and cook for about 2 minutes. Pour in the eggs and stir-fry until they are cooked, about 2 to 3 minutes. Remove the ginger from the rice and add the rice to the wok; stir everything together and break up any clumps of rice. Add the soy and hoisin and stir some more. 