Language development in children is amazing, and it’s a development that many parents really look forward to. The secret to helping your child learn language is very simple: talk together lots and listen lots. 1  Language development in children: what you need to know. Although the first year is really important for language development in children, major learning continues throughout a child’s early years. And let’s not forget, learning language is a lifelong process. Language development: the first six years. Here are just a few of the important things your child might achieve in language development between three months and six years. 3-12 months. In this period, your baby will most likely coo and laugh, play with sounds and begin to communicate with gestures.
One of the most important ways to nurture language development is to simply speak with your child. In general, the more parents speak with their children the greater the opportunities for children to learn vocabulary, and a slew of other cognitive skills. Think about it for a moment. Language is an important medium of thought. Growth in the knowledge and skills of children is correlated with growth in the number of words (i.e., vocabulary) that represent and convey facts and procedures.
Linguistics is the scientific study of language. There are three aspects to this study: language form, language meaning, and language in context. Areas of study related to linguistics include semiotics (the study of signs and symbols both within language and without), literary criticism, translation, and speech-language pathology.
Speech and language are the skills we use to communicate with others. We form these skills during the first years of life. By age 6, most children learn the basics. Try to talk and read to your child often to boost these skills. Speech is making the sounds that become words-the physical act of talking. Language is our system of using words to communicate. It includes using words and gestures to say what we mean, and understanding what others say.
The development of language skills in young children, or how we communicate with others, is a three-step process. First, children must hear the words repeatedly and become familiar with these particular sounds. Second, they must make an association between the familiar words and what these words represent. The Process of Language Development. The development of language skills in children is a process that starts at birth and continues for several years but is most concentrated during the first five years of a child's life.
The American Speech-Language-Hearing Association (ASHA) defines language as “ . . . A code made up of rules that include what words mean, how to make words, how to put them together, and what word combinations are best in what situations. Speech is the oral form of language.” www.asha.org/public/speech/development. 
Sometimes there is a reason that a child has a speech and language problem. For instance, a child may have a language delay because of trouble hearing or because of a developmental disorder such as autism. Often, there is not a clear cause. It's important to track your child's speech and language development. Speech is making the sounds that become words-the physical act of talking. Language is our system of using words to communicate. It includes using words and gestures to say what we mean, and understanding what others say.
The development of language skills in young children is a multi-step process that is both fascinating and complex. Learn how language skills are formed, important milestones for language development and test your knowledge with quiz questions. The Process of Language Development. The development of language skills in children is a process that starts at birth and continues for several years but is most concentrated during the first five years of a child's life.
Language development is thought to proceed by ordinary processes of learning in which children acquire the forms, meanings and uses of words and utterances from the linguistic input. The method in which we develop language skills is universal however, the major debate is how the rules of syntax are acquired. Infants start without language, yet by 10 months of age, babies can distinguish speech sounds and engage in babbling. Some research has shown that the earliest learning begins in utero when the fetus starts to recognize the sounds and speech patterns of its mother's voice.