Curry leaves in a tree in Assam. It is a small tree, growing 4–6 m (13–20 feet) tall, with a trunk up to 40 cm (16 in) diameter. The aromatic leaves are pinnate, with 11-21 leaflets, each leaflet 2–4 cm (0.79–1.57 in) long and 1–2 cm (0.39–0.79 in) broad. Although most commonly used in curries, leaves from the curry tree can be used in many other dishes to add flavor. In Cambodia, Khmer toast the leaves in an open flame or roast it until crispy and then crush it into a soured soup dish called Maju Krueng.
Curry tree seeds may be grown into a curry tree which gives curry leaves. Curry tree seeds are obtained from bird's nests or by trading. Players must have level 42 Farming to plant this seed, and planting a Curry sapling into a fruit tree patch gives 40 Farming experience. It takes 5–6 minutes for the potted curry tree seed to mature into a sapling and 960 minutes (16 hours) for the planted sapling to become a full curry tree. 
The curry tree is a tropical to subtropical tree native to India. As you might imagine from the name, the leaves of the curry tree are used in Southeast Asian cooking, and they are particularly popular in India and Sri Lanka. These two plants are not the same thing; the curry leaf plant has a strong odor of curry, rather than the unique odor of curry leaves, and it is native to the Mediterranean. It is also a low-growing plant, rather than a tree, and the leaves are unmistakably not curry leaves.
The Curry Tree (also called Karivepallai or Kadipatta) is a kind of tree. It is found mostly in hot climates, and is a native plant of India. The leaves of the curry tree are called curry leaves or Sweet Neem leaves. Usually, curry trees grow to 4-6 metres tall, and their trunk grows to 40 centimetres in diameter.
Anywhere that you can grow Murraya paniculata you can grow curry leaf tree, and that includes districts that have light frosts and colder winters. However like Murraya, it is also proving weedy in the bushland areas of the subtropics too, especially in southern Queensland and northern NSW. Curry leaf tree, Bergera koenigii, syn Murraya koenigii. Curry leaf tree grows well in tropical right through to Mediterranean and temperate climates and has compound leaves and fragrant flowers through spring and summer like its sister plant Murraya paniculata, often called orange jessamine.
Curry tree. Curry tree growing tree of the genus Murraya and also known as Curry, Curry tree perennial tree in tropic its evergreen in the subtropical is deciduous plant. The fruit and the leaves are edible and also used as fragrant ornamental plant, can grow in tropic, subtropical or mediterranean climate. 
This article is about Murraya koenigii or Bergera koenigii, a tree which produces an aromatic leaf often used in Indian cuisine. For the European plant sometimes referred to as curry plant, see Helichrysum italicum. The curry tree (Murraya koenigii or Bergera koenigii) is a tropical to sub-tropical tree in the family Rutaceae (the rue family, which includes rue, citrus, and satinwood), which is native to India and Sri Lanka. Although most commonly used in curries, leaves from the curry tree can be used in many other dishes to add flavor. In Cambodia, Khmer toast the leaves in an open flame or roast it until crispy and then crush it into a soured soup dish called Maju Krueng.
A Curry tree can be grown in a fruit tree patch from a curry tree sapling using the Farming skill. This requires level 42 Farming. Players receive 40 Farming experience for planting a curry tree and 2,907 Farming experience for checking its health when it is fully grown. The data in this table is based on the Grand Exchange prices of a Curry tree seed and a Curry leaf, assuming one seed is processed to 6 curry leafs and a gardener is paid with 25 bananas in 5 baskets to keep the patch disease free.
Players also receive 15 Farming experience each time they pick a curry leaf from the tree, which produces a leaf about once every 30 minutes as fruit. Players may add 3 curry leaves to uncooked stew, which can then be cooked to make curry. Curry tree, like other fruit trees, takes approximately 14 hours to grow. The data in this table is based on the Grand Exchange prices of a Curry tree seed and a Curry leaf, assuming one seed is processed to 6 curry leafs and a gardener is paid with 25 bananas in 5 baskets to keep the patch disease free.