Ribosomes are organelles that synthesize proteins for the cell and send protein to the nucleus. Ribosomes can be free floating in the cytoplasm, or can be attached to the oute … r surfaces of the rough endoplasmic reticulum and are known as bound ribosomes. They use amino acids to create the protein when the nucleus sends out messenger RNA to tell the ribosomes to make the protein. + 74 others found this useful.
Report Abuse. A ribosome is an organelle in cells that assembles proteins. Ribosomes are composed of ribosomal RNA and ribosomal proteins (known as a Ribonucleoprotein or RNP). It translates messenger RNA (mRNA) into a polypeptide chain (e.g., a protein). It can be thought of as a factory that builds a protein from a set of genetic instructions.
Ribosomes. Within cells are small, dense structures known as ribosomes that catalyse the assembly of protein chains. The ribosome accomplishes the reading of the messenger RNAs and the binding of amino acids to the transfer RNAs to build up the protein structures. There are free ribosomes that are suspended in the cytoplasm of the cell, but many of them are attached to the rough endoplasmic reticulum associated with the nuclear envelope of the cell. The ribosomes in prokaryotic cells are free floating structures, there being no nuclei in such cells.
The ribosome (/ˈraɪbɵˌzoʊm/) is a large and complex molecular machine, found within all living cells, that serves as the site of biological protein synthesis (translation). Ribosomes link amino acids together in the order specified by messenger RNA (mRNA) molecules. When a ribosome begins to synthesize proteins that are needed in some organelles, the ribosome making this protein can become membrane-bound. In eukaryotic cells this happens in a region of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) called the rough ER.
Ribosomes are organelles that synthesize proteins for the cell and send protein to the nucleus. Ribosomes can be free floating in the cytoplasm, or can be attached to the oute … r surfaces of the rough endoplasmic reticulum and are known as bound ribosomes. Ribosomes are either floating in the cytoplasm or attached to membranes. In general, free-floating ribosomes produce proteins that are used inside the cell, and membrane-attached ribosomes manufacture proteins for use outside the cell.
Ribosomes that are found in eukaryotic cells are tiny, round organelles that generate proteins from mRNA. Ribosomes are composed of protein and ribosomal RNA. The structure of the ribosome is composed of two subunits. One of the subunits is larger than the other. Ribosomes are produced in the nucleolus of the cell. The proteins that make up the ribosome are brought into the nucleolus and assembled into subunits. Afterward, the subunits are transported to the cytoplasm of the cell.
Distinguishing Characteristics: Ribosomes are typically composed of two subunits: a large subunit and a small subunit. Ribosomal subunits are synthesized by the nucleolus. These two subunits join together when the ribosome attaches to messenger RNA (mRNA) during protein synthesis. 
Ribosomes are organelles that synthesize proteins for the cell and send protein to the nucleus. Ribosomes can be free floating in the cytoplasm, or can be attached to the outer surfaces of the rough endoplasmic reticulum and are known as bound ribosomes. Ribosomes are either floating in the cytoplasm or attached to membranes. In general, free-floating ribosomes produce proteins that are used inside the cell, and membrane-attached ribosomes manufacture proteins for use outside the cell.
Ribosome. The Virtual Cell. Ribosomes are the protein assemblers of a eukaryotic cell. They are typically composed of two subunits: a large subunit and a small subunit. These two units join together to produce proteins in a process called translation. Ribosomes may be suspended in the cytosol (fluid component of the cytoplasm) of the cell or bound to the endoplasmic reticulum. Free ribosomes usually make proteins that will function in the cytosol, while bound ribosomes usually make proteins that are exported outside of the cell or included in the cell's membranes.