Typically Illinois Crude is a couple of dollars cheaper per barrel than West Texas Intermediate (WTI) because it requires a bit more refining. Price controlled prices were lower during the 1970's but resulted in artificially created gas lines and shortages and do not reflect the true free market price. And then just ten years later in June 2008 Oil prices were at the all time monthly high for crude oil (above the 1979-1980 prices) in real inflation adjusted terms (although not quite on an annual basis).
This article is about the price of crude oil. For information about derivative motor fuels, see gasoline and diesel usage and pricing. For detailed history of price movements since 2003, see World oil market chronology from 2003. In Europe and some other parts of the world, the oil price benchmark is Brent as traded on the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE, into which the International Petroleum Exchange has been incorporated) for delivery at Sullom Voe. Other important benchmarks include Dubai, Tapis, and the OPEC basket.
The first table shows the Annual Average Crude Oil Price from 1946 to the present. Prices are adjusted for Inflation to March 2015 prices using the Consumer Price Index (CPI-U) as presented by the Bureau of Labor Statistics. And then just ten years later in June 2008 Oil prices were at the all time monthly high for crude oil (above the 1979-1980 prices) in real inflation adjusted terms (although not quite on an annual basis).
The price of oil, or the oil price, generally refers to the spot price of a barrel of benchmark crude oil. The price of a barrel of oil is highly dependent on both its grade, determined by factors such as its specific gravity or API and its sulphur content, and its location. In Europe and some other parts of the world, the oil price benchmark is Brent as traded on the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE, into which the International Petroleum Exchange has been incorporated) for delivery at Sullom Voe. Other important benchmarks include Dubai, Tapis, and the OPEC basket.
By January 2015 the price of benchmark crude oil, both Brent and West Texas Intermediate (WTI) reached below $50, with vanishing spread. A record dip below $44 for WTI (with Brent near $54) was reached at mid March 2015. The WTI price increased in the $60 (WTI) and $65 (Brent) region in the following months. In Europe and some other parts of the world, the oil price benchmark is Brent as traded on the Intercontinental Exchange (ICE, into which the International Petroleum Exchange has been incorporated) for delivery at Sullom Voe. Other important benchmarks include Dubai, Tapis, and the OPEC basket.
Crude Oil Price History Chart. Interactive graph of historical monthly WTI crude oil prices per barrel back to 1948. Data is adjusted for inflation using the headline CPI and is shown by default on a logarithmic scale. Data Sources: Energy Information Administration, BLS. Crude Oil vs the S&P 500. This interactive chart compares the price of crude oil versus the level of the S&P 500. In 2008, it was the S&P that refused to confirm the final spike in commodity prices whereas in 2015, oil is the asset class that is indicating that global deflationary forces are setting in.
Inflation adjusted oil prices reached an all-time low in 1998 (lower than the price in 1946)! And then just ten years later in June 2008 Oil prices were at the all time monthly high for crude oil (above the 1979-1980 prices) in real inflation adjusted terms (although not quite on an annual basis).
Add to Watchlists. WTI Crude Oil Spot Price is at a current level of 46.28, up from 45.54 the previous market day and down from 89.76 one year ago. This is a change of 1.62% from the previous market day and -48.44% from one year ago. 1  Category: Energy. 2  Region: N/A.