It's a one-stop fishing facility with a boat ramp, bait and tackle shop, boat rentals, and cottages. It's three miles north of the Matanzas Inlet. The Matanzas Inlet in Southern St. Johns County is much more narrow than it used to be just three years ago because sand has started to fill up the inlet. The Matanzas Inlet is getting narrower. It's not just affecting boaters. It's also affecting the people who make a living in the boating and fishing industry. Boating is business for Karen Miles. She and her family have owned Devil's Elbow on the Intracoastal Waterway near Crescent Beach for more than 50 years.
I'm wondering if anyone knows a good anchorage near this inlet. We are planning a sail down from St. Augustine and figuring on a 9-11 hour sail south (we may luck out with these North East winds however). We were going to check out Matanzas Inlet but local TowBoat US knowledge says NO WAY, NOT Navigable. Sailing on Sat the 26th of October 13. Thanks! 
Boating is business for Karen Miles. She and her family have owned Devil's Elbow on the Intracoastal Waterway near Crescent Beach for more than 50 years. It's a one-stop fishing facility with a boat ramp, bait and tackle shop, boat rentals, and cottages. It's three miles north of the Matanzas Inlet. The Matanzas Inlet in Southern St. Johns County is narrower than it used to be just three years ago because sand has started to fill up the inlet. Wildlife officers say only one or two areas between the bridge pilings are navigable for small boats now
Originally Posted by capcioffi The channel is on the NORTH side NOT the south side of the bridge. Do not go near the south side of the bridge on the ocean side, no water. I would not suggest going out of there unless you know that inlet. Go there at dead low tide and look at the inlet and you will understand. Take you boat up to St Augustine inlet and launch there. There is a great ramp right by the light house, turn at the fire station that is right across from the ALLIGATOR FARM, and follow down road (200 yards) ramp is on your right. There is also a nice bar/restaurant right next to the Vilano bridge (bridge right past inlet on the right you will see it) It sounds like he is planning to run East to West-inside the bridge the channel is definitely right against the houses on the south side.
Matanzas Inlet is a channel in Florida between barrier islands connecting the Atlantic Ocean and the south end of the Matanzas River. It is 14 miles (23 km) south of St. Augustine, in the southern part of St. Johns County, at coordinates 29°42′21″N 81°13′42″W﻿ / ﻿29.70583°N 81.22833°W﻿ / 29.70583; -81.22833. Shortly thereafter, in 1742, a coquina stone tower 50 feet (15 m) square by 30 feet (9.1 m) high, now called in English Fort Matanzas, was built by the Spanish authorities in Florida to safeguard this strategic inlet.
Today's tide times for Fort Matanzas, Matanzas River, ICWW, Florida (2 km from Matanzas Inlet). Next high tide in Fort Matanzas, Matanzas River, ICWW, Florida is at, which is in from now. Next low tide in Fort Matanzas, Matanzas River, ICWW, Florida is at, which is in from now. 
The inlet is not stabilized by jetties, and thus is subject to shifting. Historic maps made by Spanish military engineers in the 18th century show that the inlet today has moved many hundreds of yards south of its location during the time of the Spanish Empire. Shortly thereafter, in 1742, a coquina stone tower 50 feet (15 m) square by 30 feet (9.1 m) high, now called in English Fort Matanzas, was built by the Spanish authorities in Florida to safeguard this strategic inlet.