MXN-Mexican Peso. Mexico, Peso. The Mexican Peso is the currency of Mexico. Our currency rankings show that the most popular Mexico Peso exchange rate is the MXN to USD rate. The currency code for Pesos is MXN, and the currency symbol is $. Below, you'll find Mexican Peso rates and a currency converter. You can also subscribe to our currency newsletters with daily rates and analysis, read the XE Currency Blog, or take MXN rates on the go with our XE Currency Apps and website. More info ►.
Mexico’s currency is the Mexican Peso. There are one hundred Mexican cents (centavos) to every peso. The symbol for the the Mexican Peso is $. To distinguish this from the Dollar, you sometimes see it presented as MX$ or the value with the letters “MN” after it, e.g. $100 MN. The MN stands for Moneda Nacional, meaning National Currency.
Listen. In Mexico, merchants and businesses are no longer allowed to change U.S. dollars for pesos, but they will tell you the location of the nearest currency exchange office. 
The Mexican peso (sign : $ ; code: MXN) is the currency of Mexico. Modern peso and dollar currencies have a common origin in the 15th–19th century Spanish dollar, most continuing to use its sign, $ . On January 1, 1993 the Bank of Mexico introduced a new currency, the nuevo peso (new peso, or MXN), written N$ followed by the numerical amount. One new peso, or N$1.00, was equal to 1000 of the obsolete MXP pesos.
Currency Converter. The currency used in Mexico is called as the Peso. This currency is denoted with the currency sign $ or Mex$ and the ISO 4217 Code for the Mexican Peso is MXN (. The Peso, is the official currency of the Mexico. It is divided into 100 smaller units called centavo. The constitution of Mexico provides that the Mexico government shall have the power to print the Mexican Peso and centavo coins to be used as a legal tender in Mexico.
Living and working at information systems companies for more than 10 years. Been living in Ohio, California, Mexico, Portugal and Spain. Fell in love with Mexico almost to the point of obsession ;). The Mexican Peso is the currency of Mexico; its symbol and code are $ and MXN. The most important currencies' exchange rates for Mexican Pesos (Jan 2013) are: Mexican denominations include 0.05 (five cents or centavos), 0.10, 0.20, 0.50, 1, 2, 5, and 10 coins as well as 20, 50, 100, 200, 500 and 1000 bank notes. 
Exchange Rate Mexico City. Use the currency converter below to calculate the current exchange rate for the city of Mexico City. The currency used in Mexico City is the Mexican Peso. Mexico City is the capital of Mexico. If you are traveling to Mexico City, you will need to exchange your currency for the Mexican Peso. You may exchange your money for the Mexican Peso at most Mexico City banks or at specialized stores called Foreign Exchange Bureaus. Look for signs that say Bureau De Change, Geld Wechseln or Cambio.