Other causes include hernias and Crohn's disease, which can twist or narrow the intestine, and tumors, which can block the intestine. A blockage also can happen if one part of the intestine folds like a telescope into another part, which is called intussusception. In the large intestine, cancer is most often the cause. Other causes are severe constipation from a hard mass of stool, and narrowing of the intestine caused by diverticulitis or inflammatory bowel disease. Symptoms include: 1  Cramping and belly pain that comes and goes. 2  The pain can occur around or below the belly button. 3  Vomiting. 4  Bloating and a large, hard belly. 5  Constipation and a lack of gas, if the intestine is completely blocked. 6  Diarrhea, if the intestine is part
Tumors, scar tissue (adhesions), or twisting or narrowing of the intestines can cause a bowel obstruction. These are called mechanical obstructions. In the small intestine, scar tissue is most often the cause. Symptoms include: 1  Cramping and belly pain that comes and goes. 2  The pain can occur around or below the belly button. 3  Vomiting. 4  Bloating and a large, hard belly. 5  Constipation and a lack of gas, if the intestine is completely blocked. 6  Diarrhea, if the intestine is part
Intestinal obstruction occurs when there is a blockage of your small or large intestine. The blockage prevents the passage of fluid or digested food. The blockage may be partial or total. There are many potential causes of intestinal obstruction. In many cases, this condition can’t be prevented. 
If the bowel blockage is in the large intestine, the most common cause is cancer. When blood flow gets restricted to only one part of the colon, this condition is known as Ischemic Bowel. The colon actually becomes strangled to the point where nothing can pass through. Some of the most common causes of blocked bowel include: 1  Tumors in the colon. 2  Heavy scar tissue. 3  Hernias. 4  Infestation by hostile organisms. 5  Severe or occasional constipation. 6  Crohn’s disease. 7  Cancer
About bowel obstruction. A bowel obstruction is a blockage in the bowel. The diagram below shows the bowel and the rest of the digestive system. Your bowel may become completely or partly blocked. This means that the waste from food you have digested can't get past the blockage. 
Causes of Bowel Blockage. Some of the most common causes of blocked bowel include: 1  Tumors in the colon. 2  Heavy scar tissue. 3  Hernias. 4  Infestation by hostile organisms. 5  Severe or occasional constipation. 6  Crohn’s disease. 7  Cancer
Obstruction within the small intestine (small bowel obstruction or SBO) is more common than a blockage elsewhere in the gastrointestinal tract. Given its length and structure, it is more prone to a number of causes that can result in a partial or complete obstruction. Any strangulation which compromises blood flow to the bowel is considered as a medical emergency and needs immediate treatment, usually surgical intervention. Causes of a Blocked Bowel. Most cases of small bowel obstruction are due to mechanical causes. A small portion of cases are due to impaired intestinal motility, thereby preventing the flow of chyme further down the gastrointestinal tract. This causes intestinal contents to become ‘backed up’.
The cause of the blockage can be mechanical, meaning that there is a physical obstruction. Mechanical blockage may be caused by scar tissue, adhesions, entrapment through a hernia, foreign bodies, gallstones, tumors, impacted feces, and volvulus (twisting of the intestines). 
Volvulus can also occur in the large bowel, most often in the sigmoid colon. Other possible causes of bowel obstruction include: 1  Impacted stools (poo) from severe constipation. 2  Diseases that affect the intestinal wall such as Crohn's disease or diverticular disease. 3  Gallstones. 4  A swallowed item. 5  Intussusception, where part of the intestine folds in on itself.