Results. If you try to eat a fatty meal after gallbladder surgery, your body may not be able to digest it well. You may experience diarrhea, abdominal bloating and excess gas in the form of belching and/or flatulence. The diarrhea may be severe enough that you can't control it well.
But, he says, A percentage of people have complications after gallbladder removal surgery. Living Without a Gallbladder. Obviously, when you’re living without a gallbladder, it can no longer store bile, as designed. Bile is a liquid that helps you digest fatty foods.
And your gallbladder is an organ you can live without. Digestion Changes After Gallbladder Removal. In the first few weeks after your surgery, your doctor probably will recommend that you eat a mostly low-fat diet while your body adjusts to living without a gallbladder.
The function of the gallbladder. Your gallbladder is important. Your liver continually manufactures bile, which travels to your gallbladder, where it is stored and concentrated. Bile helps you to digest fat; therefore your gallbladder secretes a lot of bile into your intestines after you’ve eaten a fatty meal.
You will need general anesthesia for this surgery, which usually lasts 2 hours or less. After surgery, bile flows from the liver (where it is made) through the common bile duct and into the small intestine. Because the gallbladder has been removed, the body can no longer store bile between meals.
The gallbladder is a sac that stores bile made by the liver in between meals. After a meal, the gallbladder squeezes the bile it has stored into the intestine. In the intestine, the bile mixes with food and fat.
When your stomach senses you've eaten a fatty meal, it signals your gallbladder to release that bile, which your stomach needs to digest the fat. However, some people develop gallstones and inflammation in their gallbladder, which may get worse after a fatty meal.
The components of bile are synthesized in the liver cells, transported to the bile ducts and stored in the gall bladder. When a person eats, the gallbladder contracts and the bile is transferred to the small intestine.