There's nothing like the taste of a cake you made in your own kitchen. Baking a cake is as simple as measuring ingredients, mixing them in the right order, and remembering to take the cake out of the oven before it burns. Read on to learn how to bake three basic cakes: chocolate cake, apple cake, and vanilla pound cake. Scroll to the bottom for tips on how to follow a cake recipe. 
A steady 325-350 degrees is ideal when it comes to baking pound cake. Position the pan in the middle of the oven, and rotate it once, halfway through the baking time, as it bakes to account for any hot spots. 
Baking time will be slightly longer for 10-inch cake. 3. CHOCOLATE POUND CAKE. Cream butter, sugar ... and floured bundt pan, 10 inch pan or 2 (9x5x3 inch) loaf pans. Bake at ... pans. Bake until cake tester inserted in ... to drizzle down sides. 4. BUTTERMILK LEMON POUND CAKE. To prepare the pound cake: Grease and flour a 10-inch bundt pan or two 8 1/2 x 4 1/2 inch loaf pans. Put the ... hours, the loaf cakes for 40 to ... into slices
1 This results in a pound cake with maximum volume. 2  Be patient. Beat softened butter (and cream cheese or vegetable shortening) at medium speed with an electric mixer until creamy. 3  This can take from 1 to 7 minutes, depending on the power of your mixer. 4  Gradually add sugar, continuing to beat until light and fluffy. 
1. Preheat your oven to 300ºF (150ºC). In your pan or pans (this recipe is quite large -- but pound cakes are perfect for a double-layer masterpiece), line them with cooking spray or butter; this prevents sticking. You could also sprinkle with flour (on top of the butter) or line with parchment paper. Pour batter into your pan(s) and place in the oven. Cook for 75 minutes, checking periodically. Some ovens cook unevenly or quickly -- if this describes yours, keep an eye on it. 1  If to be used for fancy ornamented cakes, bake 30 to 35 minutes in a dripping-pan. 2  Insert a skewer or toothpick to see if it's finished.
How long does it take to bake a cake in a 9 by 9 cake pan? Baking a cake in a 9square pan at 350 degrees F will take approximately 35 to 40 minutes. It is best to follow the directions in a recipe for the best results. 1 person found this useful. As a general rule of thumb you can bake most cakes at 375 degrees Fahrenheit (which is 180 degrees Celsius) and check them after about 30 minutes and expect it to take at least 45 minutes.
I've never seen a pound cake take less than an hour... most take 1 hr. 15 min, and I have one recipe that calls for 1½ hours. Those long times, tho, are for a slow oven (about 300-325ºF). Till a toothpick inserted in the center of the cake comes out clean. Depends on the heat of your oven but start checking at about 45 minutes and when the cake is golden brown. sonnyboy · 8 years ago. Thumbs up.
1 Have ingredients at room temperature. 2  This results in a pound cake with maximum volume. 3  Be patient. Beat softened butter (and cream cheese or vegetable shortening) at medium speed with an electric mixer until creamy. 4  This can take from 1 to 7 minutes, depending on the power of your mixer. 1 This results in a pound cake with maximum volume. 2  Be patient. Beat softened butter (and cream cheese or vegetable shortening) at medium speed with an electric mixer until creamy. 3  This can take from 1 to 7 minutes, depending on the power of your mixer.