Interesting. . . not really what I was expecting to find. It appears that the term originated in the 1800s and was used to describe an attack that consisted of one person bludgeoning another with a small bag of sand. The related noun, sandbagger, is a name used for the street thugs who would perpetrate these attacks. The term sandbagger is derived from the 19th century thugs who would clobber their victims with bags of sand. Seems fitting. I’ve watched a shot or two in my day that felt pretty similar to getting whacked with a bag of sand. Now, next time you call your buddy a sandbagger you will know why.
: : I am trying to determine the origin of the phrase sandbag. As in a person who conceals abilities or assets at first in order to gain a tactical advantage later. : Sandbag=to conceal or misrepresent one's true position, potential, or intent especially in order to take advantage. 
A sandbagger is a nasty species of golf vermin who lies about his true playing abilities-making himself seem worse than he is-in order to gain advantage in tournaments or bets. As Word-Detective.com puts it, the poker meaning ... described a player who held off raising the stakes in order to lull the other players into a false sense of security. The poker sandbagger would pounce late in the game, clobbering the other players with his good hand..
1 Sandbagging (social) , when one withholds comments or information that could support another person's or party's cause or argument, especially after a previous understanding, or implied understanding, that support would be provided. 1 Sandbagging in professional wrestling, where a wrestler being lifted intentionally shifts his weight to feel heavier, making the other wrestler appear weak or clumsy.
It would appear that before sandbagging became part of the golf lexicon it was a commonly used term in cards. A common sandbagging scenario in poker would be a player with a great hand who holds back on raising the stakes in order to fool his opponents into thinking they had a chance to win. The term sandbagger is derived from the 19th century thugs who would clobber their victims with bags of sand. Seems fitting. I’ve watched a shot or two in my day that felt pretty similar to getting whacked with a bag of sand. Now, next time you call your buddy a sandbagger you will know why.
To threaten and bully the populace. This definition of sandbagger-a person who uses a sand bag as a weapon-can still be found in many dictionaries; it's the first definition for the word in most older dictionaries. As Word-Detective.com puts it, the poker meaning ... described a player who held off raising the stakes in order to lull the other players into a false sense of security. The poker sandbagger would pounce late in the game, clobbering the other players with his good hand..
Definition: Sandbagger is a derogatory term in golf that applies to golfers who cheat by pretending to be worse golfers than they really are. The term can be thought of two ways: 1. 
Design Pics/Design Pics/Getty Images. The term sandbagging generally refers to a cheat who conceals his real talents to fool his opponent. In cards, a sandbagger pretends his hand is lousy to get other players to put greater stakes on the table. In golf, a sandbagger pretends he has a lower level of ability than he really does. In pool, think Paul Newman in The Hustler: a pool shark acting like an amateur to raise the bets against him. Though the origin of the word sandbagging didn't mean quite the same thing, it did have a negative definition that has carried on through the years.
The noun evolved into a verb around 1887 meaning to attack someone with a sandbag, making a sandbagger a rotten individual who ambushed his victims with that sandbag. In the 1940s, sandbagging meant to hold back from betting at first in hopes of making a greater bet later. In pool, think Paul Newman in The Hustler: a pool shark acting like an amateur to raise the bets against him. Though the origin of the word sandbagging didn't mean quite the same thing, it did have a negative definition that has carried on through the years.