Meaning & History. Created by Felice Romani for the main character in the opera 'Norma' (1831). He may have based it on Latin norma rule. This name is also frequently used as a feminine form of NORMAN.
[ syll. no-ma, nom-a ] The baby girl name Noma is pronounced as N OW MAH †. Noma's language of origin is Hebrew and Latin. It is predominantly used in the English and Hawaiian languages. Noma is a variant form of the English, German, Hebrew, and Japanese Naomi in the English language. Noma is also a variant form of the English, German, Hungarian, and Italian Norma in the Hawaiian language.
Norse Meaning: The name Noma is a Norse baby name. In Norse the meaning of the name Noma is: Fate. American Meaning: The name Noma is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Noma is: Fate. SoulUrge Number: 7. Expression Number: 7. People with this name have a deep inner need for quiet, and a desire to understand and analyze the world they live in, and to learn the deeper truths.
: a spreading invasive gangrene chiefly of the lining of the cheek and lips that is usually fatal and occurs most often in persons severely debilitated by disease or profound nutritional deficiency—see cancrum oris. : a spreading invasive gangrene chiefly of the lining of the cheek and lips that is usually fatal and occurs most often in persons severely debilitated by disease or profound nutritional deficiency. ADVERTISEMENT.
It consists of 4 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced No-ma. In the U.S. in 2014 less than 5 girls were given the name. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Noma Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Noma has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Noma to other names. The name Noomi is a form of Noma. 
Norma /nor-ma/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced NOR-mah. It is of Latin origin, and the meaning of Norma is the standard or norm. Norma is a very prominent first name for females (#94 out of 4276, Top 2%) but an uncommon last name for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the birth name popularity of Norma for girls. Norma reached its peak position of #28 in the U.S. during the years 1930-1939, but is not listed currently
Personal experiences with the name Noma: | Edit. Share what you know! Nicknames for Noma: | Edit. Share what you know! Meanings and history of the name Noma: | Edit. Share what you know! Famous real-life people named Noma: | Edit. Noma Dumezweni, Swazi-English actress. NoMa is a neighborhood in Washington, D.C., located just north of Capitol Hill and Union Station and named for its location, north of Massachusetts Avenue.
You can find out where the majority of the Noma families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. You can find out when most of the Noma families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival