Courses in this catalog are identified by prefixes and numbers that were assigned by Florida’s Statewide Course Numbering System (SCNS). This numbering system is used by all public postsecondary institutions in Florida and 27 participating non-public institutions. The Course Prefix. The course prefix is a three-letter designator for a major division of an academic discipline, subject matter area or subcategory of knowledge. The prefix is not intended to identify the department in which a course is offered. Rather, the content of a course determines the assigned prefix to identify the course
The course prefix and each digit in the course number have a meaning in the SCNS. The listing of prefixes and associated courses is referred to as the “SCNS taxonomy.” Descriptions of the content of courses are referred to as “statewide course profiles.”. The Course Prefix. The course prefix is a three-letter designator for a major division of an academic discipline, subject matter area, or subcategory of knowledge. The prefix is not intended to identify the department in which a course is offered.
The course prefix is a three-letter designator for a major division of an academic discipline, subject matter area, or sub-category of knowledge. The prefix is not intended to identify the department in which a course is offered. Rather, the content of a course determines the assigned prefix to identify the course. A. 
The course prefix and each digit in the course number have a meaning in the Statewide Course Numbering System (SCNS). The list of course prefixes and numbers, along with their generic titles, is referred to as the “SCNS taxonomy.” Descriptions of the content of courses are referred to as “statewide course profiles.”. The Course Prefix. The course prefix is a three-letter designator for a major division of an academic discipline, subject matter area, or sub-category of knowledge. The prefix is not intended to identify the department in which a course is offered.
How Course Prefixes are Written. Course prefixes are usually only written by themselves when discussing distribution requirements. When used in part with course numbers, they are written of the form CE 3050 or OBC 2300. There is always a space between the course prefix and course number. 
Course Prefix Guide. Many program descriptions in this catalog refer to courses offered by other departments using a course abbreviation called a prefix. In addition, some course prefixes do not use the logical initials of the courses to which they refer (e.g., ABC is used to indicate instrumental music courses). To assist in locating the department or program which uses each prefix, the following guide to course prefixes is provided. 
Florida’s Statewide Course Numbering System. Courses in this catalog are identified by prefixes and numbers that were assigned by Florida’s Statewide Course Numbering System (SCNS). This numbering system is used by all public postsecondary institutions in Florida and by participating nonpublic institutions. The Course Prefix. The course prefix is a three-letter designator for a major division of an academic discipline, subject matter area, or subcategory of knowledge. The prefix is not intended to identify the department in which a course is offered.