The Indian rupee symbol () is an amalgam of both the Devanagari consonant  र  (Ra) and the Latin letter R without the vertical bar. The design was presented to the public by the government of India on 15 July 2010. The current abbreviation INR started in July 2010. The Indian rupee (Hindi: रुपया) (sign: ; code: INR) is the official currency of the Republic of India. The currency is issued and controlled by the Reserve Bank of India.
India, Rupee. The Indian Rupee is the currency of India. Our currency rankings show that the most popular India Rupee exchange rate is the INR to USD rate. The currency code for Rupees is INR, and the currency symbol is ₹. Below, you'll find Indian Rupee rates and a currency converter. You can also subscribe to our currency newsletters with daily rates and analysis, read the XE Currency Blog, or take INR rates on the go with our XE Currency Apps and website. More info ►. 
The Indian rupee sign (sign : ₹ ; code: INR) is the currency sign for the Indian rupee, the official currency of India. Designed by D. Udaya Kumar, it was presented to the public by the Government of India on 15 July 2010, following its selection through an “open” competition among Indian residents. The Indian rupee sign selection process was challenged in the Delhi High Court, by petitioner Rakesh Kumar, who was a participant in the competition, described the process as “full of discrepancies” and “flawed”, and named the Finance Ministry and the chairman of Indian Rupee Symbol Selection Committee as respondents.
symbol was used to indicate the Indian Rupee symbol (INR) in computers. From the word processing point of view it was much easier to type Rs because both the constituent characters (i.e. R and s) were available on English keyboard. Now, a lot of people wonder how to type the new Indian Rupee symbol (₹) in computers. Indian Rupee symbol (INR) can be easily typed using Unicode. But the problem was solved when, on 10 August 2010, a Unicode character was allocated for this symbol. Although the symbol itself is still missing from English keyboard –but this allocation was a big leap forward.
DEFINITION of 'INR (Indian Rupee)'. The currency abbreviation or currency symbol for the Indian rupee (INR), the currency of India, in forex trading. The rupee is made up of 100 paise and is often presented with the symbol Rs. The Indian government decided to find a new symbol for its currency and in July of 2010, adopted the ra on coins and banknotes which looks like this: Next Up.
The rupee symbol has been added in Fedora 15, codenamed as Lovelock. On 18 May 2011, Microsoft released an update to Windows Vista, Windows Server 2008, Windows 7 and Windows Server 2008 R2 operating systems to include support for this new Indian rupee symbol. Hi, to add rupee symbol please perform below steps. first select cell you want to format, then right click and select option format cell. this will format cell with rupee symbol + few balnk symbols like below, to remove blank space just go to custom format and modify format as shown in 1st picture..
Learn how to type, insert or add the Indian Rupee (indicated as INR or Rs) symbol in HTML, MS Word, Excel or text document using Unicode. You can add Indian currency Unicode symbol on computers with Indic language support. Indian currency is called Rupee or Rupiya. Indian Rupee symbol (INR) can be easily typed using Unicode. But the problem was solved when, on 10 August 2010, a Unicode character was allocated for this symbol. Although the symbol itself is still missing from English keyboard –but this allocation was a big leap forward.
Alt 8377 (Left Side Alt key must be used). INR Indian Rupee has a new symbol ₹ , which was released on 15 July, 2010 by the Indian Government after an public competition to design the symbol for the Indian currency. You can now find the rupee symbol in Indian currencies and coins. To type the Rupee symbol, you need to set your keyboard layout to English (India) as the Rupee symbol character is available in the Indian keyboard layout only. (For the same reason, the $ symbol is replaced by Rupee symbol in the default keyboard layout of new Windows Phones.). 1. Keyboard Shortcut.
The modern rupee is subdivided into 100 paise (singular paisa), though as of 2011 only 50 paise coins are legal tender. Banknotes in circulation come in denominations of ₹ 1, ₹ 2, ₹ 5, ₹ 10, ₹ 20, ₹ 50, ₹ 100, ₹ 500 and ₹ 1000. Rupee coins are available in denominations of ₹ 1, ₹ 2, ₹ 5, ₹ 10. 