A. Quickly! Salmon tastes the best if cooked quickly. You can over-cook salmon very easily, be sure to remove it from the heat source just prior to s it being done. It is done when the opaque color is gone. (I prefer my salmon to still have a little opaqueness in the middle). Salmon should flake easily when done. 
4-5 Days. 6-9 Months. Of course, salmon lasts for a shorter period of time if it is not stored properly. But remember that salmon, like a lot of other proteins, usually has a sell by date and not a use by date or expiration date.
Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F. Season salmon with salt and pepper. Place salmon, skin side down, on a non-stick baking sheet or in a non-stick pan with an oven-proof handle. Bake until salmon is cooked through, about 12 to 15 minutes. Serve with the Toasted Almond Parsley Salad and squash, if desired. A sound recipe, but I'd advise checking the salmon at 8-10 minutes. In my 450F oven, 3 filets from a 12-ounce piece of salmon came to just overdone at 140F in 10 minutes. (FDA recommends cooking to 135F.) That said, salmon's fattiness makes it forgiving and made for a delicious lunch.
Answer: Canned salmon has quite a long shelf life for canned food products. If you have already purchased a can of salmon check the label on the can to determine the actual manufacturers recommended shelf life. A good rule of thumb is that generally a canned salmon product has a shelf life of about six years. This could be increased if the pantry has low humidity and is quite dry and the can has not been compromised, rusted or otherwise damaged.
Q: I've read on your packaging to consume the salmon within 5 days after opening. A: We recommend to consume smoked salmon within 5 days to ensure a fresh eating experience. For an extended shelf life, put a portion that will not be consumed within 5 days in the freezer. Divide the remaining product into portions that will last 5 days and double wrap them in plastic or a zip lock type bags. 
In the Refrigerator. Salmon can be kept fresh in your refrigerator for up to two days. As soon as you bring your salmon home, unwrap it and wipe it down with a damp towel then wrap it in plastic wrap and place it in the coldest area of your refrigerator. This is typically the back of the bottom drawer in the refrigerator. 2. Salmon can be kept fresh in your freezer for up to eight weeks. When you bring home your fresh salmon take it out of the packaging, rinse it off using cold water and pat it dry. Cut your salmon into the desired portions and store it in freezer wrap, foil, freezer bags or an airtight freezer friendly container.
Salmon contains omega-3 fatty acids (also known as the good cholesterol) which are proven to lower the risk of heart disease and help with numerous other health problems. Salmon is the #3 best seller in the U.S. in the seafood category, topped only by shrimp (#1) and tuna (#2) for ten years running. 6-9 Months. Of course, salmon lasts for a shorter period of time if it is not stored properly. But remember that salmon, like a lot of other proteins, usually has a sell by date and not a use by date or expiration date.
1. Salmon can be kept fresh in your refrigerator for up to two days. As soon as you bring your salmon home, unwrap it and wipe it down with a damp towel then wrap it in plastic wrap and place it in the coldest area of your refrigerator. This is typically the back of the bottom drawer in the refrigerator. 2. Salmon can be kept fresh in your freezer for up to eight weeks. When you bring home your fresh salmon take it out of the packaging, rinse it off using cold water and pat it dry. Cut your salmon into the desired portions and store it in freezer wrap, foil, freezer bags or an airtight freezer friendly container.
— Allison Zeglis, Dexter, MI. If you're lucky enough to get a side of salmon as a holiday gift (or you simply have brunch leftovers), store the fish on the bottom shelf of your refrigerator, where it's coldest. Unopened, it will keep for two weeks; after opening, one week
1 The precise answer to the question “How long does cooked salmon last?” depends to a large extent on storage conditions — refrigerate salmon within two hours of cooking. 1 How long does cooked salmon last at room temperature? 2  Bacteria grow rapidly at temperatures between 40 °F and 140 °F; cooked salmon should be discarded if left for more than 2 hours at room temperature.