This said, if you pull something out of the freezer that's older than three months and it doesn't show signs of freezer burn, it's probably still good to eat. How the food was packaged, how often you opened the freezer (which quickens freezer burn), and other factors can extend the shelf life of your frozen food. As a general rule of thumb, frozen food will keep for three months in a standard home freezer before starting to show signs of freezer burn.
The colder you keep the product-above 32 but below 40 - the longer it can last. Most meat drawers in refrigerators are colder than the rest of the space in the fridge so storage in a meat drawer will help. As long as the meat was not already bad, cooking it extends its life for another 3 to 4 days or so. But in fact, it is fine to eat for six months after you have frozen it, but poultry deteriorates in flavor rapidly after that. After a year in the freezer, it would be rather tasteless when cooked, and after 18 months, it would be unpleasantly tasteless, though still technically safe.
A freezer full of food will usually keep about 2 days if the door is kept shut; a half-full freezer will last about a day. The freezing compartment in a refrigerator may not keep foods frozen as long. If the freezer is not full, quickly group packages together so they will retain the cold more effectively. Freeze leftovers within 3-4 days. Do not refreeze any foods left outside the refrigerator longer than 2 hours; 1 hour in temperatures above 90 °F. If you purchase previously frozen meat, poultry or fish at a retail store, you can refreeze if it has been handled properly.
For best taste, eat your commercially frozen turkey within 6 months. It will be safe to eat for much longer than that since pathogenic bacteria will not grow at proper freezer temperatures-although it may not be as tender and juicy. And this is assuming it has never been defrosted. The quality will also depend on how well the food has been wrapped. Chemical changes-such as rancidity-can also occur over time in the freezer, making the meat inedible. So the turkey could keep well for longer than 6 months or even a year, but there is no point to hanging onto it that long. Alternatively, look on the plastic bag the turkey came in and it will tell you
When it comes to quality, the story is different: Over time, all frozen foods will eventually start to go downhill when it comes to texture, flavor and taste. In the case of your whole frozen turkey, you’ll experience the best quality if you eat it within one year, as detailed here. Since you’re right around that one-year mark, you can expect good results if you cook the turkey now. 
You can help keep turkey fresh longer by storing it in your refrigerator immediately after use. Once prepared, turkey should be stored in a tightly closed container to keep out moisture and other contaminants. For a long-term option, you can freeze your turkey while preserving its taste if you use a freezer safe container or the original wrapping. If you have a whole frozen bird, read our FAQ to find out thawing times for a turkey. But remember, turkey, like a lot of other proteins, usually has a sell by date and not a use by date or expiration date. Because of this distinction, you may safely use it even after the sell by date has lapsed as long as it has not gone bad-read on.
The colder you keep the product-above 32 but below 40 - the longer it can last. Most meat drawers in refrigerators are colder than the rest of the space in the fridge so storage in a meat drawer will help. As long as the meat was not already bad, cooking it extends its life for another 3 to 4 days or so. The quality will also depend on how well the food has been wrapped. Chemical changes-such as rancidity-can also occur over time in the freezer, making the meat inedible. So the turkey could keep well for longer than 6 months or even a year, but there is no point to hanging onto it that long. Alternatively, look on the plastic bag the turkey came in and it will tell you
The quality will also depend on how well the food has been wrapped. Chemical changes-such as rancidity-can also occur over time in the freezer, making the meat inedible. So the turkey could keep well for longer than 6 months or even a year, but there is no point to hanging onto it that long. Alternatively, look on the plastic bag the turkey came in and it will tell you. But in fact, it is fine to eat for six months after you have frozen it, but poultry deteriorates in flavor rapidly after that. After a year in the freezer, it would be rather tasteless when cooked, and after 18 months, it would be unpleasantly tasteless, though still technically safe.