Best Answer: I remember getting that vaccine in elementary school. It was the smallpox vaccine and they stopped giving that I think in the 70's because the disease was said to be eradicated. I remember them pressing some sort of device with a bunch of little tiny needles into the arm. 
1971 was the year in which the Surgeon General of the United States Public Health Service, the Redbook Committee of the American Academy of Pediatrics, and the Territorial Health Officers agreed that the time had come to discontinue routine primary smallpox vaccination for American children. yes there is in the early 1700's Dr. Edward Jenner had discovered that cows had cowpox so he got some cow pox and tested it on a local boy who then became ill for a few days b … ut then after that he had became immune to smallpox! 3 people found this useful.
No. The smallpox vaccine does not contain smallpox virus and cannot spread or cause smallpox. However, the vaccine does contain another virus called vaccinia which is live in the vaccine. Because the virus is alive, it can spread to other parts of the body or to other people from the vaccine site. The smallpox vaccine is the best protection you can get if you are exposed to the smallpox virus. Most people experience normal, usually mild reactions that include a sore arm, fever, and body aches.
Initially, the terms vaccine / vaccination referred only to smallpox, but in 1881 Louis Pasteur proposed that to honour Jenner the terms be widened to cover the new protective inoculations being introduced. Publication of the Inquiry and the subsequent energetic promulgation by Jenner of the idea of vaccination with a virus other than variola virus constituted a watershed in the control of smallpox for which he, more than anyone else deserves the credit.
Smallpox vaccine, the first successful vaccine to be developed, was introduced by Edward Jenner in 1798. He followed up his observation that milkmaids who had previously caught cowpox did not later catch smallpox by showing that inoculated cowpox protected against inoculated smallpox. Publication of the Inquiry and the subsequent energetic promulgation by Jenner of the idea of vaccination with a virus other than variola virus constituted a watershed in the control of smallpox for which he, more than anyone else deserves the credit.
The smallpox vaccine contains the live vaccinia virus-not dead virus like many other vaccines. For that reason, the vaccination site must be cared for carefully to prevent the virus from spreading. Also, the vaccine can have side effects. The vaccine does not contain the smallpox virus and cannot give you smallpox. Currently, the United States has a big enough stockpile of smallpox vaccine to vaccinate everyone who might need it in the event of an emergency. Production of new vaccine is underway. 
· just now. Report Abuse. Smallpox vaccination is still available, but it is not a necessary vaccine for the general public. Given the presumed world-wide eradication of smallpox (except for lab samples), the benefits of vaccination no longer outweigh the risks of the vaccine itself for most people. Smallpox vaccination is done with a live vaccinia virus (not smallpox itself, but a similar virus that provides immunity against smallpox). A small percentage of those vaccinated can develop a diffuse deadly infection (progressive vaccinia), myocarditis, and other adverse events. 
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. THE END OF ROUTINE SMALLPOX VACCINATION IN THE UNITED STATES == C. Henry Kempe M.D.1 1 Department of Pediatrics, University of Colorado, Medical Center, 4200 East Ninth Avenue, Denver, Colorado 80220. yes there is in the early 1700's Dr. Edward Jenner had discovered that cows had cowpox so he got some cow pox and tested it on a local boy who then became ill for a few days b … ut then after that he had became immune to smallpox! 3 people found this useful.
In China, powdered smallpox scabs were blown up the noses of the healthy. The patients would then develop a mild case of the disease and from then on were immune to it. The technique did have a 0.5–2.0% mortality rate, but that was considerably less than the 20–30% mortality rate of the disease itself. Publication of the Inquiry and the subsequent energetic promulgation by Jenner of the idea of vaccination with a virus other than variola virus constituted a watershed in the control of smallpox for which he, more than anyone else deserves the credit.