Gout is caused by the buildup of too much uric acid in the body. Uric acid comes from the breakdown of substances called purines. Purines are found in all of your body’s tissues. They are also in many foods, such as liver, dried beans and peas, and anchovies. Gout is one of the most painful forms of arthritis. It occurs when too much uric acid builds up in the body. The buildup of uric acid can lead to: 1  Sharp uric acid crystal deposits in joints, often in the big toe.
1 Gout is a form of arthritis caused by excess uric acid in the bloodstream. 2  The symptoms of gout are due to the formation of uric acid crystals in the joints. 3  Gout most commonly affects the joint in the base of the big toe. 4  Gout attacks often occur without warning in the middle of the night. More detail and supporting information is in the main article. 1 
Also called gouty arthritis, gout is a painful form of arthritis caused by too much uric acid in the body. The painful flare-ups may be concentrated in the big toe (a symptom known as podagra), as well as swelling and pain in the ankles, knees, feet, wrists or elbows. 
Gout is caused by an elevated uric acid level in the bloodstream and accumulation of uric acid crystals. Uric acid crystal deposits in the joint cause inflammation of the joint leading to pain, redness, heat, and swelling. 
Gout is a kind of arthritis. It can cause an attack of sudden burning pain, stiffness, and swelling in a joint, usually a big toe. These attacks can happen over and over unless gout is treated. Over time, they can harm your joints, tendons, and other tissues. Gout is most common in men. Gout is caused by too much uric acid in the blood. Most of the time, having too much uric acid isn't harmful. Many people with high levels in their blood never get gout. But when uric acid levels in your blood are too high, the uric acid may form hard crystals in your joints.
Gout is caused by too much uric acid in the blood (hyperuricemia). The exact cause of hyperuricemia sometimes isn't known, although inherited factors (genes) seem to play a role. Uric acid may form crystals that build up in the joints. This causes the pain and other symptoms. 
Gout is a painful condition that occurs when the bodily waste product uric acid is deposited as needle-like crystals in the joints and/or soft tissues. In the joints, these uric acid crystals cause inflammatory arthritis, which in turn leads to intermittent swelling, redness, heat, pain, and stiffness in the joints. 
by Anne Harding. Gout is an extremely painful inflammation of the joints caused by a buildup of needle-sharp uric-acid crystals. The big toe is the most common target, but gout can attack the feet, ankles, knees, and hands as well. An attack or “flare” can last for days or months. Men and obese people are at greater risk. 
Gout is a painful type of arthritis commonly felt in a big toe. Gout is caused by a buildup of uric acid in the blood known as hyperuricemia (HI-per-yu-Ru-SEEM-ee-uh). A gout attack happens when uric acid forms crystals in the joints, causing inflammation and pain. As your uric acid level rises, so does the chance for gout and gout attacks. 