Step 3. Augment the puppy chow with healthy foods to encourage weight gain. Add a few spoonfuls of pasta or rice to supply complex carbohydrates, and try moistening the dog's food with low-salt chicken broth to make it more palatable. You can even buy sauces or gravy made for dogs at some pet food stores. Recipe for Satin Balls for Weight Gain. Mix a pound of raw ground beef, an 8oz package of cream cheese, a jar of all-natural peanut butter, a dozen egg yolks, a 10oz package of wheat germ and a cup of flaked oats that have been soaked in heavy cream.
One of the best ways to put weight on a dog is with something called satin balls. You can find the recipe on many sites on the internet. 
1. Record your dog’s weight. If you believe that your dog is underweight, you need to begin keeping track of the dog’s weight so that you can track the dog’s weight loss, and then his weight gain as you implement weight-gaining strategies. Be sure to share this information with your vet. A dog’s weight is related to his overall health, and part of your dog’s health is getting adequate gentle exercise. 1  Make sure to consult your vet before embarking on a rigorous exercise plan. 2  Gradually increasing controlled walks on leash is usually safe for most dogs and less likely to cause injury.
The ideal weight of the dog will vary depending on the dog’s frame. For example, I have a male bloodhound and a female bloodhound that are just about the same height (the male is maybe 1/2 in. taller at the shoulder) – my male weighs 110 lbs. and my female weighs 70 lbs. No one can tell you how much your dog should way, the ideal weight will vary based on gender and build but 50 kg. is definitely within the breed standard. As far as the “best food” for a Newfie – there is no “best food” and nutritional requirements don’t vary much from breed to breed.
Additional Tips. Even if you are trying to get your dog to gain weight, it is important that he still receive a healthy amount of daily exercise. One 30-minute walk every day will help maintain your dog's healthy heart and lung function. Type of Food. The type of food you feed your dog can have a significant impact on whether he is able to gain weight. High-quality dog foods contain a higher percentage of quality ingredients that provide your dog with the nutrition he needs.
Amount to Feed. For a dog to gain weight, he needs to take in more calories than he burns throughout the day. To determine how much to feed your dog to help him gain weight, read the instructions on the package of your dog food and feed more than the recommended amount. You may need to experiment a little bit to find out how much you need to feed your dog. Type of Food. The type of food you feed your dog can have a significant impact on whether he is able to gain weight. High-quality dog foods contain a higher percentage of quality ingredients that provide your dog with the nutrition he needs.
3. Supplement the dog’s food with appropriate human food. Adding some yummy, safe “human” food to your dog’s diet can help increase a dog’s enthusiasm for eating. Non-fat, no salt chicken broth, beef broth or vegetable broth is very tasty, especially if you warm it up before placing on top of the dog’s food. A dog’s weight is related to his overall health, and part of your dog’s health is getting adequate gentle exercise. 1  Make sure to consult your vet before embarking on a rigorous exercise plan. 2  Gradually increasing controlled walks on leash is usually safe for most dogs and less likely to cause injury.
Tips. 1  Puppy food, because it is a growth food, is a good choice for weight gain. 2  The dog might not like what you are feeding him. 3  It can be difficult to put weight on high-energy dogs who have become too skinny. 4  Read the label on the food bag before feeding it to your dog. How to Put Weight on a Skinny Dog. Feed a skinny dog gradually. A dog can be too skinny from eating the wrong type of food, from being sick or from being homeless without regular meals for several days.
According to the Dog Logic website, this recipe is used to help dogs gain weight quickly after surgery. The egg yolks contain cysteine, which may have protective effects on the liver; the peanut butter is a high-calorie, nutritious food rich in calcium and iron. The ground beef supplies high-quality protein. Recipe for Satin Balls for Weight Gain. Mix a pound of raw ground beef, an 8oz package of cream cheese, a jar of all-natural peanut butter, a dozen egg yolks, a 10oz package of wheat germ and a cup of flaked oats that have been soaked in heavy cream.
Pele-Just a Lover. One of the best ways to put weight on a dog is with something called satin balls. You can find the recipe on many sites on the internet. Some people use it to put weight on their dogs before dog shows, but it's especially good for emaciated dogs and dogs who won't eat. It's high in fat so it puts on weight quickly, but it's also got other ingredients to make it a total diet so it can be fed alone or as a supplement. Fix some up and let your dogs enjoy.