Another way of defining intrinsic motivation is the means-end definition, which says intrinsic motivation is doing what we want, whereas extrinsic motivation is doing something to get something else.
But there is no real evidence that intrinsic motivation even exists. The issue is more than academic, Reiss said. Many sports psychology books, and books advising how to motivate students and business people, tout the value of intrinsic motivation and warn that extrinsic rewards can undermine people's performance.
Also, researchers have assumed that rewards simply make people less interested in the intrinsic joys of an activity. But Reiss said many of these studies haven't considered the possibility that the negative effect of rewards has nothing to do with intrinsic or extrinsic motivations.
This paper will examine the possible effects of extrinsic rewards on intrinsic motivation in Preschool to College students and argue that extrinsic rewards undermine intrinsic motivation.
Undermining children's intrinsic interest with extrinsic rewards: A test of the overjustification hypotnesis. Joumnal of Personalitv a.ne Social Psvchologv 28 129- 137.Lopper, M. R., Keavney, M. & Drake, M. (1996). intrinsic motivation and extrinsicrewards: A comnnentary on Cameron and Pierce's meta-atalysis.
The work of several investigators in recent years points to the importance of the secondary or macro type of intrinsic satisfaction from extrinsic rewards as the clue to managing the effects of extrinsic rewards in ways which do not inhibit the operation of intrinsic motivation for engagement in the task.
This, in turn, helps children acquire intrinsic motivation at school. Although there is substantial research on the negative effects of extrinsic rewards on intrinsic motivation, there are also studies that indicate that external reward programs do not have a detrimental effect on students’ intrinsic interest.
The finding that extrinsic rewards can undermine intrinsic motivation has been highly controversial since it first appeared (Deci, 1971).
Intrinsic motivation is an energizing of behavior that comes from within an individual, out of will and interest for the activity at hand. No external rewards are required to incite the intrinsically motivated person into action. The reward is the behavior itself.