The recommended target dose of ABILIFY is 10 mg/day. Aripiprazole was studied in adolescent patients 13 to 17 years of age with schizophrenia at daily doses of 10 mg and 30 mg. ABILIFY can be given without regard to meals. The recommended target dose of ABILIFY is 15 mg/day, as monotherapy or as adjunctive therapy with lithium or valproate. The dose may be increased to 30 mg/day based on clinical response. The safety of doses above 30 mg/day has not been evaluated in clinical trials.
For adolescents age 13 to 17 years old, the recommended starting aripiprazole dose for schizophrenia is aripiprazole 2 mg once daily. Within a week or so, your healthcare provider should try to increase your dose to aripiprazole 10 mg once daily. The recommended starting aripiprazole dose for treating major depression (when used along with an antidepressant) in adults is 2 mg to 5
If necessary, your healthcare provider may increase the dose up to 30 mg per day. The recommended starting dose of Abilify for bipolar disorder in adults is 15 mg once daily. If necessary to control your bipolar disorder symptoms, your healthcare provider may increase your dose up to 30 mg once daily. Abilify Dosage for Bipolar Disorder. For children and adolescents age 10 to 17 years old, the recommended starting Abilify dose for bipolar disorder is Abilify 2 mg once daily. Within a week or so, your healthcare provider should try to increase your dose to Abilify 10 mg once daily.
1 The recommended dose range for aripiprazole (Abilify) is 5 mg -15 mg per day. 2  The maximum dose per day is 30 mg. 3  The target dose for adolescents is 10 mg/day. 4  Your doctor will start you on a smaller dose and then increase the dose to a target dose. Aripiprazole orally disintegrating tablet. 1  The recommended dose for aripiprazole orally disintegrating tablet (Abilify Discmelt) is 10 mg or 15 mg by mouth daily. 2  The dose may be increased to a maximum of 30 mg daily after 2 weeks.
Aripiprazole Dosing for Bipolar Disorder. The recommended starting aripiprazole dose for treating major depression (when used along with an antidepressant) in adults is 2 mg to 5 mg once daily. The effective dose is usually aripiprazole 5 to 10 mg once daily. Your healthcare provider should not increase your aripiprazole dose more frequently than once a week. The maximum aripiprazole dosage for this use is 15 mg once daily. The recommended starting dose of aripiprazole for autism disorder in children age 6 through 17 years old is 2 mg once daily. If necessary to control the irritability symptoms, your child's healthcare provider may increase the dose gradually up to 1
Dosage of Abilify for Schizophrenia. The recommended starting Abilify dose for schizophrenia in adults is 10 mg to 15 mg once daily. If necessary, your healthcare provider may increase your dose up to 30 mg per day. Abilify Dosage for Bipolar Disorder. For children and adolescents age 10 to 17 years old, the recommended starting Abilify dose for bipolar disorder is Abilify 2 mg once daily. Within a week or so, your healthcare provider should try to increase your dose to Abilify 10 mg once daily.
Schizophrenia-The recommended dose of Abilify for adults is 10 mg to 15 mg in a day. The starting dose for adolescents (15 to 17 years) is 2 mg of tablet in a day that can be gradually increased to 10 mg in a day. 
Abilify Dosage for Autism. The recommended starting dose of Abilify for autistic disorder in children 6 through 17 years old is 2 mg once daily. If necessary to control the irritability symptoms, your child's healthcare provider may increase the dose gradually up to 15 mg once daily. The recommended starting Abilify dose for treating major depression (when used along with an antidepressant) in adults is 2 mg to 5 mg once daily. The effective dose is usually Abilify 5 to 10