A+E Networks. On this day in 1868, the U.S. Senate continues to hear impeachment charges against President Andrew Johnson. The trial, convened by the Senate on March 5, focused on issues surrounding Johnson’s post-Civil War Reconstruction policy and, more specifically, his firing of Secretary of War Edwin Stanton. Impeachment trial of Andrew Johnson begins. For the first time in U.S. history, the impeachment trial of an American president gets underway in the U.S. Senate.
Johnson was impeached on February 24, 1868, in the U.S. House of Representatives on eleven articles of impeachment detailing his  high crimes and misdemeanors , in accordance with Article Two of the United States Constitution. Until the impeachment of Bill Clinton 131 years later (which also ended in an acquittal), it was the only impeachment trial of a President in the history of the United States.
On this day in 1868, the U.S. Senate continues to hear impeachment charges against President Andrew Johnson. Impeachment trial of Andrew Johnson begins. For the first time in U.S. history, the impeachment trial of an American president gets underway in the U.S. Senate.
The House agreed to the articles of impeachment on March 2, 1868. The trial began three days later in the Senate, with Chief Justice of the United States Salmon P. Chase presiding. The trial concluded on May 16 with Johnson's acquittal. The final tally of votes for conviction was one fewer than the two-thirds required. Until the impeachment of Bill Clinton 131 years later (which also ended in an acquittal), it was the only impeachment trial of a President in the history of the United States.
Answer. Andrew Johnson, the 17th president of the United States, became the first to be impeached when the House of Representatives on February 24, 1868, overwhelmingly passed an impeachment resolution and in the next few days approved 11 articles of impeachment for the Senate to consider. 
Although the impeachment trial of Andrew Johnson was ostensibly about a violation of the Tenure of Office Act, it was about much more than that. Also on trial in 1868 were Johnson's lenient policies towards Reconstruction and his vetoes of the Freedmen's Bureau Act and the Civil Rights Act. 
Presidents Johnson and Clinton are the only presidents for whom the impeachment process went as far as a Senate trial; Nixon resigned in 1974 before the House could vote on impeachment. Like Johnson, Clinton was acquitted in 1999. Impeachment trial of Andrew Johnson begins. For the first time in U.S. history, the impeachment trial of an American president gets underway in the U.S. Senate.
Bill Clinton, the 42nd President of the United States, was impeached by the House of Representatives on two charges, one of perjury and one of obstruction of justice, on December 19, 1998. Two other impeachment articles, a second perjury charge and a charge of abuse of power, failed in the House, and he was acquitted of them by the Senate on February 12, 1999. Independent Counsel Ken Starr turned over documentation to the House Judiciary Committee.
If the House votes to impeach, wh … ich means indict or charge, then the official proceeds to trial in the Senate, where he (or she) is either convicted or acquitted. Andrew Johnson was impeached by the House of Representatives on February 24, 1868, but was acquitted by a single vote in the Senate. So yes, he was impeached (charged with wrongdoing), but only by the House of Representatives, not by the entire Congress. And no, since the Senate failed to convict (found guilty) the President, he was not removed from office. President Johnson served out the remained of his term and left office on March 4, 1869. Answer Andrew Johnson was impeached (accused of a crime by Congress), but like Bill Clinton, was never convicted, so remained in office. While the accusation of impeachme … nt was due to his violationg the Tenure of Office Act, the real reason was that the radical Republicans wanted him out of office.
Johnson was impeached by a vote of 126-47 on February 24, 1868, but was acquitted by a single vote (35-19) at the conclusion of his Senate removal trial on May 16, 1868. Johnson completed his Presidential term and left office March 4, 1869. He was succeeded by Ulysses S. Grant. Answer Andrew Johnson was impeached (accused of a crime by Congress), but like Bill Clinton, was never convicted, so remained in office. While the accusation of impeachme … nt was due to his violationg the Tenure of Office Act, the real reason was that the radical Republicans wanted him out of office.