The superficial muscles form the characteristic ‘calf’ shape of the posterior leg. They all insert into the calcaneus of the foot (the heel bone), via the calcaneal tendon. The calcaneal reflex tests spinal roots S1-S2. 1 In the lower part of the leg, the muscle belly combines with the soleus to from the calcaneal tendon, with inserts onto the calcaneus (the heel bone). 2  Actions: It plantarflexes at the ankle joint, and because it crosses the knee, it is a flexor there. 3  Innervation: Tibial nerve.
© 2014 WebMD, LLC. All rights reserved. The calf muscle, on the back of the lower leg, is actually made up of two muscles: 1  The gastrocnemius is the larger calf muscle, forming the bulge visible beneath the skin. 2  The gastrocnemius has two parts or heads, which together create its diamond shape. 
In humans, the gastrocnemius muscle (/ˌɡaestrɒkˈniːmiəs/ ˌɡæstrɒkˈniːmiəs /or/ ; ˌɡaestrəkˈniːmiəs ˌɡæstrəkˈniːmiəs; Plural, gastrocnemii Latin from greek γαστήρ stomach (and) κνήμη; knēmē leg meaning stomach, of leg referring to the bulging shape of) the calf is a very powerful superficial bipennate muscle that is in the back part of the. lower leg The plantaris muscle and a portion of its tendon run between the two muscles, which is involved in locking the knee from the standing position. Since the anterior compartment of the leg is lateral to the tibia, the bulge of muscle medial to the tibia on the anterior side is actually the posterior compartment.
The calf muscles. The gastrocnemius, soleus and plantaris muscles are known as the calf muscles. They form the superficial muscles of the posterior compartment of the leg. The deep muscles of the posterior compartment of the leg are the popliteus, tibialis posterior, flexor digitorum longus and flexor hallucis longus. The gastrocnemius calf muscle is the most superficial of the calf muscles. It inserts onto the heel bone via the Achilles tendon. The gastrocnemius muscle flexes the foot at the ankle joint — that is it acts to point the foot downwards by bending it at the ankle joint, such as when you stand on your toes. Leg (knee to ankle) - superficial posterior view. View the surface muscles of the leg from the back. See where the soleus and gastrocnemius muscles — commonly known as the calf muscles — are. The calf muscles are essential to pushing off from the ground and standing
The gastrocnemius is the calf muscle which is most superficial. The soleus is deeper. Some think that these should be called one. The calf muscle is located on the back of the lower leg, below the knee, between the popliteal space and Achilles tendon. It is made up of two individual muscles, the gastrocnemius and soleus. 13 people found this useful.
SHARE SHARE TWEET EMAIL. The calf muscle is made up of seven muscles arranged into superficial and deep groups. The superficial group includes the gastrocnemius, plantaris and soleus. The gastrocnemius is the most visible muscle, and it gives your calf most of its shape. The deep group includes the popliteus, flexor digitorum longus, flexor hallucis longis and the tibialis posterior.
Superficial Muscles of the Calf. The gastrocnemius is the most superficial muscle of the calf, and it's the one you can touch simply by placing your hand on the back of your calf. It provides a lot of the power for jumping, sprinting, and walking. It also helps to bend the knee, but it's main action is on the ankle. The calf is located on the back of the lower leg. The muscles in the back of the lower leg are actually divided in two layers, superficial and deep. The superficial layer is what most people are familiar with because these are the muscles you can see.
Tight calf muscles is a common problem in athletes especially runners. The calf muscles are the Gastrocnemius muscle and the Soleus muscle. The big muscle at the back of the lower leg is called the Gastrocnemius. It’s the muscle that’s visible from the outside of the body. Under it, and further down the leg is a smaller muscle called the Soleus. The larger and most superficial of the two muscles, the Gastrocnemius, attaches to the heel with the Achilles Tendon and originates behind the knee on the femur, crossing two joints. 