The term “ORTHO-BIONOMY” comes from “Ortho” meaning correct or straight, “bio” meaning life, and “nomy” meaning the laws of or study of. Dr. Pauls defined the term then as “the correct application of the laws of life.” He stated the “[ORTHO-BIONOMY] is really about understanding your whole life cycle. ORTHO-BIONOMY is a gentle system of body therapy which works to restore natural balance, alignment and well-being. ORTHO-BIONOMY works with the body’s proprioceptive nervous system to release acute and chronic pain and rediscover comfort and eas
The term Ortho-Bionomy comes from ortho meaning correct or straight, bio meaning life, and nomy meaning the laws of or study of. Dr. Pauls defined the term then as the correct application of the laws of life.. He stated [Ortho-Bionomy] is really about understanding your whole life cycle. Ortho-Bionomy helps people break the cycle of pain – without creating pain. It is very effective for recovering from injuries, surgery and stress. It aids the recovery by reducing muscle tension, soothing the joints, increasing flexibility and range of movement, improving circulation and relaxing the entire body.
For the most current class listings, training criteria and current list of Practitioners, Associates and Instructors, click on the links above! Ortho-Bionomy is a gentle, non-invasive, system of healing that reminds the body of its natural ability to restore balance. Its principles are based on a simple and profound philosophy: allow the body to correct itself. The hallmark of Ortho-Bionomy is pain relief. 
Ortho-Bionomy is a neurological-and structure-based work that works with the body’s ability to self-correct without pain or force. The key elements of the work is our ability to work with the nervous system. Ortho-Bionomy is Osteopath-based and includes working with structure, lymph, fluids, neurology, organs and the endocrine system. The work is based on comfort and allowing the body to relax into a new understanding and often opening up neurological conversations that assist and speed up the process of healing.
Ortho-Bionomy is sometimes called a self-corrective or self-healing technique, because it helps the body to correct itself by working with the innate reflexes of the body. It uses slow, gentle movements and comfortable positions to unlock tension and relieve pain. The word Ortho-Bionomy is based on “Ortho” meaning correct or aligned, “Bio” meaning life and nature; and “Onomy”, the principles or governing laws.
Ortho-Bionomy is a gentle, non-invasive form of body therapy, which is highly effective in working with acute or chronic pain or stress caused through accidents, injuries or postural and structural imbalances. The word Ortho-Bionomy is based on “Ortho” meaning correct or aligned, “Bio” meaning life and nature; and “Onomy”, the principles or governing laws.
“Serving the Health of each of us”. ORTHO-BIONOMY is a gentle system of body therapy which works to restore natural balance, alignment and well-being. ORTHO-BIONOMY works with the body’s proprioceptive nervous system to release acute and chronic pain and rediscover comfort and ease
Ortho-Bionomy is a gentle, non-invasive, osteopathically-based form of body therapy which is highly effective in working with chronic stress, injuries and pains or problems associated with postural and structural imbalances. Ortho-Bionomy helps people break the cycle of pain – without creating pain. It is very effective for recovering from injuries, surgery and stress. It aids the recovery by reducing muscle tension, soothing the joints, increasing flexibility and range of movement, improving circulation and relaxing the entire body.