Balthazar Confirmed for A38. Sziget 2015 Lineup CompleteWith the addition of Balthazar all the empty spots on the festival's lineup are gone. The 10PM slot on Thursday (13th) is still to be announced at the official Sziget lineup, so there might be some further modifications under way. Sziget 2015 Memories: Martin Garrix's Live Set CompleteMartin Garrix enjoyed this yer's Sziget so much that he continued to mix in the backstage for over one hour. Here is his complete Sziget 2015 live act.szigetnews.com.
, is the Hungarian for Island) is one of the largest music and cultural festivals in Europe. It is held every August in northern Budapest, Hungary, on Óbudai-óbudai (Sziget Old Buda), island a leafy- 108 (hectare- 266) acre island on The. Danube more 1,000 1000 performances take place each. year In 2011, Sziget was ranked one of the 5 best festivals in Europe by The Independent. The 2011 festival won the European Festivals Award in the category Best Major European Festival in early 2012.
We wonder if anyone is watering the tulips in Holland during the week of Sziget! For most people Sziget is a camping festival, and there are some prime spots to call home for the week. Scout out a shady spot on the far side of the island — you might even find us there. It’s a 24-hour experience with all services, most music, food and drinks functioning all week long. There’s a huge amount of interactive art spread throughout the island. Sziget appears to be taking note from Burning Man by adding more interactive art each year. The Tarot Labyrinth is a longtime favorite where your path is determined by the fate of the cards.
The Sziget Festival Budapest Hungary lives up to its name. Sziget is the Hungarian word for island, and the festival takes place on the largest Danube River island within the city. The island is called Hajogyyari (meaning shipyard or shipbuilding) and is alternately called Obudai (meaning Old Buda)
Sziget hosted a huge crowd of 80 000 on the Robbie Williams day. The day was sold-out by late night. Passes and day tickets for the next days still available. 
The Island of Freedom, Sziget 2016. Every year, ten thousands of festival fanatics travel their way to a beautiful island nearby the Hungarian capital to listen and watch thousands of bands from all over the world. But Sziget is more than music! Rock, dance, world music, punk, electro, funk, blues and classical music: No doubt, there is something for everyone on one of the sixty stages. The world music stage is one of the best in its’ genre with approximated 15.000 visitors per performance. But Sziget Festival is more than just music: theatre, movies, art, spirituality, sports, fairs, restaurants, shops, bars and tea houses..not to forget about the beautifully decorated campsites all over the island.
The Sziget Festival (Sziget, pronounced. [ˈsiɡɛt]. , is the Hungarian for Island) is one of the largest music and cultural festivals in Europe. It is held every August in northern Budapest, Hungary, on Óbudai-óbudai (Sziget Old Buda), island a leafy- 108 (hectare- 266) acre island on The. danube In 2011, Sziget was ranked one of the 5 best festivals in Europe by The Independent. The 2011 festival won the European Festivals Award in the category Best Major European Festival in early 2012.
Sziget means island in Hungarian. This is the name of one of Europe's biggest music festival, organized in Budapest on the Óbuda óbuda island every year In. august 
Sziget Festival 2015 in Budapest is one of the top five music festivals in Europe, joining ranks with Rock Werchter in Belgium, the Glastonbury Festival in England, Roskilde Festival in Denmark, and Oxegen in Ireland. Sziget is the Hungarian word for island, and the festival takes place on the largest Danube River island within the city.