Biology. Various populations of rhesus macaque are kept in captivity due to their importance as a model organism correlate to human. Some examples of their critical contributions are in the fields of neuroscience, behavioral biology, reproductive physiology, endocrinology, cardiovascular studies and pharmacology. Large males may reach 60 cm in length, yet males and females may differ in weight, body size and canine size.
1 M. m. lasiota (Gray, 1868), the west Chinese rhesus macaque, is distributed in the west of Sichuan, northwest of Yunnan, and southeast of Qinghai; it is possibly synonymous with M. m. sanctijohannis (Swinhoe, 1867), if not with M. m. mulatta. Its tail is of medium length and averages between 20.7 and 22.9 cm (8.1 and 9.0 in). Adult males measure approximately 53 cm (21 in) on average and weigh about 7.7 kg (17 lb). Females are smaller, averaging 47 cm (19 in) in length and 5.3 kg (12 lb) in weight. Rhesus macaques have on average 50 vertebrae.
Whilst the rhesus macaque is threatened in the wild, a large captive population is maintained around the world for use in biological, psychological and medicinal research, especially for studies into perception, learning and behaviour. Females become sexually mature between 2.5 and 4 years and males between 4.5 and 7 years. Females who reach ages of more than 25 years go through the menopause, eventually becoming infertile. The rhesus macaque shows dominance hierarchies in both sexes, but more so in males.
The rhesus macaque (Macaca mulatta), is one of the best-known species of Old World monkeys. It is listed as Least Concern in the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species in view of its wide distribution, presumed large population, and its tolerance of a broad range of habitats. Its tail is of medium length and averages between 20.7 and 22.9 cm (8.1 and 9.0 in). Adult males measure approximately 53 cm (21 in) on average and weigh about 7.7 kg (17 lb). Females are smaller, averaging 47 cm (19 in) in length and 5.3 kg (12 lb) in weight. Rhesus macaques have on average 50 vertebrae.
If a macaque of a lower level in the social chain has eaten berries and none are left for a higher-level macaque, then the one higher in status can, within this social organization, remove the berries from the other monkey's mouth. Several species of macaques are used extensively in animal testing, particularly in the neuroscience of visual perception and the visual system. Nearly all (73–100%) pet and captive macaques are carriers of the herpes B virus.
Rhesus macaque, Macaca mulatta, lives in a wide range of habitats, and shows a great deal of adaptability. Populations of rhesus macaque are most commonly found in western Afghanistan, through India to northern Thailand. Some examples of their critical contributions are in the fields of neuroscience, behavioral biology, reproductive physiology, endocrinology, cardiovascular studies and pharmacology. Large males may reach 60 cm in length, yet males and females may differ in weight, body size and canine size.
The rhesus macaque is brown or grey in color and has a pink face, which is bereft of fur. Its tail is of medium length and averages between 20.7 and 22.9 cm (8.1 and 9.0 in). Adult males measure approximately 53 cm (21 in) on average and weigh about 7.7 kg (17 lb). Females are smaller, averaging 47 cm (19 in) in length and 5.3 kg (12 lb) in weight. Rhesus macaques have on average 50 vertebrae.
Medical developments using the rhesus macaque include the development of the rabies, smallpox, and poilo vaccines (Cawthon, 2005). Notes Macaca mulatta individuals have a high frequency for carrying and transmitting the Herpes B virus. Wild population carrying numbers are estimated in the upper 70% while captive populations vary broadly but can be estimated at near 100% (Lutwick & Deaner, 2006). Both climate and season affect the timing of the onset of daily activities as well as the type of activities undertaken. In the warmest times of the year, rhesus macaques spend more time resting than during more temperate months (Seth & Seth 1986; Seth 2000).
With an expressive face and active lifestyle, the rhesus macaque is a charismatic species. Its coat is pale brown above and fades on the underside, but the naked face and rump are bright red in adults. It has large cheek pouches which it uses to store food when foraging. Audebert, who named the rhesus macaque, did so after the Greek King of Thrace, Rhesos, but emphasized that it had no special relevance. Females become sexually mature between 2.5 and 4 years and males between 4.5 and 7 years. Females who reach ages of more than 25 years go through the menopause, eventually becoming infertile. The rhesus macaque shows dominance hierarchies in both sexes, but more so in males.