Trastevere is a 10-minute walk from the hotel. The top of the Gianicolo Hill, which gives a panoramic view of Rome’s skyline, is just over a quarter mile away. Trastevere is a great choice for travelers interested in Food, Culture and Art. 
Gianicolo-Monteverde. Undoubtedly one of Rome’s most romantic spots, the Gianicolo (Janiculum) Hill rises up behind Trastevere and reaches as far as the Basilica of St. Peter’s. The panorama is here breathtaking: the view stretches over roofs, ancient ruins, monuments and baroque domes as far as the hills embracing the city. Home About Rome Districts. Undoubtedly one of Rome’s most romantic spots, the Gianicolo (Janiculum) Hill rises up behind Trastevere and reaches as far as the Basilica of St. Peter’s.
Franz-Marc Frei / Corbis. This is known as the city of seven hills, but actually Rome has more than that. Indeed, the Gianicolo (or Janiculum), the hill that affords the best view of Rome, is west of the Tiber and outside the ancient city, so it's not counted among the ancient seven. Besides a stunning view of Rome's ancient landmarks, the Gianicolo gives you a quick and slightly more modern history lesson on the Italian Risorgimento, the 19th-century movement (and wars) that unified modern Italy.
) is a hill in western Rome, Italy. Although the second-tallest hill (the tallest being Monte Mario) in the contemporary city of Rome, the Janiculum does not figure among the proverbial Seven Hills of Rome, being west of the Tiber and outside the boundaries of the ancient city. Other sights on the Janiculum include the church of San Pietro in Montorio, on what was formerly thought to be the site of St Peter 's crucifixion; a small shrine known as the Tempietto, designed by Donato Bramante, marks the supposed site of Peter's death.
The Gianicolo or Janiculum Hill is often considered the Eighth Hill of Rome, referring to the famed seven hills around which Ancient Rome was built. 
Once you view Rome from Gianicolo hill, head down to visit the area of Testaccio, the Baths of Diocletian, as well as the Trevi Fountain. Although a cannon is still fired from it every day at noon, Rome's highest hill is now better known for great views, pony rides and Neapolitan puppet shows at weekends. The Janiculum Hill (Monte Gianicolo) is a long ridge on the right bank of the Tiber, running almost due north from a point opposite the Aventine to what is now called Monte Mario, a distance of about 5 kilometres.
The Janiculum Hill (Gianicolo) is one my favorite spots in all of Rome, Italy. Rising above Trastevere, south of the Vatican, is a long ridge paralleling the Tiber called the Gianicolo (Janiculum), which is famously not one of the Seven Hills of Rome. Nighttime panorama across Rome from the Gianicolo Hill. Lest you think my labeling this one of my favorite spots in all of Rome is mere frivolous hyperbole, I submit to you the purplest piece of prose I've ever penned, a veritable love letter to the view from up here at night that I wrote back in college, when I was about to leave life in Rome behind for a second time.
About these ratings. To the west of the Tiber River (near another top attraction, Trastevere), Gianicolo Hill, which also goes by The Janiculum, is just waiting to be climbed. Although a hike, the site provides unobstructed, panoramic views of the eternal city. Travelers report being impressed by the views of Gianicolo Hill, with many recommending a visit at sunrise or sunset for a truly breathtaking experience. The summit of Gianicolo can be reached by climbing Trastevere's Via Garibaldi.
The Janiculum is not counted as one of the Seven Hills of Rome and was nicknamed the 8th hill. The name of Janiculum Hill (Monte Gianicolo) is derived from the name of the king of Latium, Janus, who, according to legend, founded a city on the hill. The Janiculum Hill (Monte Gianicolo) is a long ridge on the right bank of the Tiber, running almost due north from a point opposite the Aventine to what is now called Monte Mario, a distance of about 5 kilometres.