Since the sole plate is the foundation of the frame or wood walls of a home, to build an effective house or wall, it is essential to begin with a solid foundation. Due to the importance of sole plates, it is vital that the proper type of wood be installed. It is common for modern buildings to bolt or lag the sole plate into the masonry below it. In the past, however, construction of these plates that were not bolted to the masonry foundation were considered to be acceptable.
Timber sills can span gaps in a foundation. A sill plate or sole plate in construction and architecture is the bottom horizontal member of a wall or building to which vertical members are attached. The word plate is typically omitted in America and carpenters speak simply of the sill. Other names are ground plate, ground sill, groundsel, and mud sill. 
Purpose: A Sole Plate is supplied when the customer requires a stable foundation to anchor the motor. Construction/Installation: The Sole Plate is a metal plate between 1.0 and 1.5 thick with four 3/4 thick reinforcement pads welded under each foot of the motor. 
The sole plate 20 is positioned so that the sole plate body 20 a is mounted on the bearing base 11 for the steam turbine, and the sliding member 20 b is on the gland pad 10. [0105] A sole plate 20 and a gland pad 10 are fixed on a base 9 by a base bolt 29 mounted on a base concrete 9. The position of a sole plate 20 in use for turbine is adjusted by a gland pad 10 and an adjusting screw thread.
SOLE PLATE-The bottom wood member of a framed stud wall. SOLID BRIDGING-A short wood member placed between the floor joists at the center to prevent the joists from twisting. Sole Plate-See Bottom Plate. Square Footage, Living-The square footage in a home that is heated and/or cooled. The space occupied by two-story rooms and stairwells is counted once in the lower floor 's square footage. ~ - bottom horizontal member of a frame wall
Definition of SOLEPLATE. 1. : the lower plate of a studded partition on which the bases of the studs butt. 2. : the undersurface of an iron. ADVERTISEMENT. 
Stool: the inside horizontal trim member of a window sash or door panel ... sole plate (lisse d'assise, f.) Bottom plate in timber framing. solenoid valve (vanne lectromagn tique, f.) A valve which is electrical ly operated. Sole Plate: Bottom horizontal member of a frame wall. Sole Plate-See Bottom Plate. Square Footage, Living-The square footage in a home that is heated and/or cooled. The space occupied by two-story rooms and stairwells is counted once in the lower floor 's square footage.
groundsill, ground beam, ground plate, mudsill, sole plate. In a framed structure, the sill which is nearest the ground or on the ground; used to distribute concentrated loads. 
The sole plate, also sometimes referred to as the sill plate, the mud sill, or the base plate, is the main supporting beam of a wall in the construction industry. Typically, these are the first piece of wood that is in contact with the masonry of the basement or foundation. It is common for modern buildings to bolt or lag the sole plate into the masonry below it. In the past, however, construction of these plates that were not bolted to the masonry foundation were considered to be acceptable.
[0089] A sole plate 20 comprises a sole plate body 20 a and a sliding member 20 b, in which a sliding member 20 b is positioned on the side of the gland pad 10, and the sole plate body 20 a is positioned on the side of the bearing base 11 of the steam turbine. [0105] A sole plate 20 and a gland pad 10 are fixed on a base 9 by a base bolt 29 mounted on a base concrete 9. The position of a sole plate 20 in use for turbine is adjusted by a gland pad 10 and an adjusting screw thread.