Many people are surprised that Cuba is not a cheap country to travel in. The average Cuban salary is around $25 a month after all, and travellers expect prices similar to those in Central America. But as we’ve said, Cuba is unlike anywhere else we’ve visited and you can’t expect things to be that straightforward.
In cost terms-think of it more like a Western European country. There is a dual economy in Cuba, where tourists pay for 'luxury' items in tourist prices in CUC Cuban Convertible Pesos, and locals can pay for essentials in CUP (Moneda National) . If a Cuban wants to buy a 'luxury' item-they too will have to pay in CUC.
Budget. Approx 25-30CUC each per day (£16.49- £19.78). If you are sharing costs with a friend, eating street food (paying in CUP) & staying in Casa Particulars and limiting your excursions, taking public transport and using local pesos CUP as much as possible. Speaking Spanish will increase your chances of saving money.
Cuba has a dual currency system: Cuban pesos (CUP) or moneda nacional are what locals earn/spend while convertible pesos (CUC) are what tourists spend and locals need for any kind of luxuries. 1 CUC is about equivalent to US$1, and 1 CUC buys 24 CUP.
Report Abuse. No idea what it costs for housing, utility or food in Cuba but I do know the wages are very poor, we were there in April this year and our maid told us she was paid the equivalent of £38 per month and she worked 10 hour days 6 days a week.
One miscellaneous cost would be the 35 CUC, or however much it is now, exit tax when you leave (25 CUC) Cuba. Oh yeah, and then there's the internet, if you plan to use it while you're in Cuba. Most places it is 6 CUC per hour.
If you’re based in Havana, most taxi rides that stay within the city shouldn’t cost much more than 10 CUC. A ride from the airport to central Havana should be around 20 to 25 CUC. And a trip from Havana to Trinidad (335 km) should be roughly 100 CUC. That same trip to Trinidad costs 25 CUC on the Viazul public bus.