Scholars in the humanities are humanity scholars or humanists. The term humanist also describes the philosophical position of humanism, which some  antihumanist  scholars in the humanities refuse. The Renaissance scholars and artists were also called humanists. The word anthropos (άνθρωπος) is from the Greek for human being or person.. Eric Wolf described sociocultural anthropology as the most scientific of the humanities, and the most humanistic of the sciences.. The goal of anthropology is to provide a holistic account of humans and human nature.
The humanities can be described as the study of how people process and document the human experience. Since humans have been able, we have used philosophy, literature, religion, art, music, history and language to understand and record our world. 
The humanities use methods that are primarily critical, or speculative, and have a significant historical element —as distinguished from the mainly empirical approaches of the natural sciences. The word anthropos (άνθρωπος) is from the Greek for human being or person.. Eric Wolf described sociocultural anthropology as the most scientific of the humanities, and the most humanistic of the sciences.. The goal of anthropology is to provide a holistic account of humans and human nature.
Tweet. The humanities are academic disciplines that study the human condition, using methods that are primarily analytical, critical, or speculative, as distinguished from the mainly empirical approaches of the natural sciences. The humanities that are also regarded as social sciences include technology, history, anthropology, area studies, communication studies, cultural studies, law and linguistics. Scholars working in the humanities are sometimes described as humanist
2. a: the quality or state of being human. 3. plural: the branches of learning (as philosophy, arts, or languages) that investigate human constructs and concerns as opposed to natural processes (as in physics or chemistry) and social relations (as in anthropology or economics). 4. : the human race: the totality of human beings. Examples of HUMANITY. 1  We appealed to his sense of humanity. 2  These discoveries will be of benefit to all humanity. 3  She was cut off from the rest of humanity. 4  the college of arts and humanities. 5  He's taking courses in both the sciences and the
The word humanities is derived from the Renaissance Latin expression studia humanitatis, or study of humanitas  (a classical Latin word meaning—in addition to humanity -- culture, refinement, education and, specifically, an education befitting a cultivated man). The word anthropos (άνθρωπος) is from the Greek for human being or person.. Eric Wolf described sociocultural anthropology as the most scientific of the humanities, and the most humanistic of the sciences.. The goal of anthropology is to provide a holistic account of humans and human nature.
The humanities include ancient and modern languages, literature, philosophy, religion, and visual and performing arts such as music and theatre. The humanities that are also sometimes regarded as social sciences include history, anthropology, area studies, communication studies, cultural studies, law and linguistics. Humanities is the complex form of art, science, education, management, etc. and all other study which is related to all these areas directly or indirectly by different ways. Sociology is related to history, communication, economy, politics, and all other sciences.
LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. noun. Humanity describes the entire human race or the characteristics that belong uniquely to human beings, such as kindness, mercy and sympathy. An example of humanities is what someone studying literature at college would say their degree is in. 
As fields of study, the humanities emphasize analysis and exchange of ideas rather than the creative expression of the arts or the quantitative explanation of the sciences. History, Anthropology, and Archaeology study human social, political, and cultural development. By connecting us with other people, they point the way to answers about what is right or wrong, or what is true to our heritage and our history. The humanities help us address the challenges we face together in our families, our communities, and as a nation.