In this section, we’ll take a look at this drug and whether or not it’s effective in the treatment of general anxiety disorder. Wellbutrin (bupropion) is an antidepressant drug that is chemically different than SSRIs, buspirone, or other common antidepressants.
Bupropion is an antidepressant medication approved for the treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD), seasonal affective disorder (SAD), and to help people stop smoking. Symptoms of depression include: 1  Depressed mood-feeling sad, empty, or tearful.
There hasn't been a lot of research about general anxiety disorders and Wellbutrin, so it’s actually difficult to give a good answer to the question. Some studies show that Wellbutrin is helpful in treating general anxiety disorder symptoms; other studies show that it is not helpful at all.
Wellbutrin and panic disorder is probably not a good combination. Wellbutrin should be taken with great care. Though it is an antidepressant and doctors will prescribe antidepressants for panic disorder, there are many other options.
Side effects of Wellbutrin include agitation, constipation, dry mouth, headache or migraines, insomnia, nausea, and tremors. Wellbutrin does have one excellent advantage over most other anti-depressants and anti-anxiety medications. That advantage is that it does not cause sexual dysfunction in men.
How Bupropion Affects Anxiety. Bupropion is a medication commonly used for mood stabilization in people with seasonal affective disorder (SAD), and to combat the cravings created by tobacco addiction. Bupropion has not been studied as an anxiety treatment and has therefore not been recommended as a treatment for anxiety alone.
A: Wellbutrin (bupropion) is a dopamine-reuptake inhibitor antidepressant which is used for the treatment of major depressive disorder. There are long-acting forms of bupropion which are used for smoking cessation and to treat seasonal affect
Basically, general anxiety disorders and Wellbutrin don’t really go together because Wellbutrin is the only anti-depressant that doesn’t affect serotonin levels in your brain. However, it can be used to diminish the side effects of SSRIs that may have been prescribed for an anxiety disorder.