1 For example, a first offense for public intoxication in Indiana may be punished with up to 180 days in jail and a $1,000 fine. 2  In California, public intoxication is a misdemeanor. 1 Public intoxication as a crime. 2  In the majority of states with public intoxication laws, public intoxication is considered a misdemeanor, punishable by fines, jail time, probation, or community service.
The charge is a misdemeanor and is punishable by up to 90 days in jail and a $1000 fine. If convicted, you would ave a permanent criminal record. In most cases, a criminal conviction can be avoided. You should contact an experienced criminal defense attorney. If you're eventually convicted of a misdemeanor for 647(f) or 11550 (depending on what you under the influence of), there will obviously be a public record of that conviction. Talk to an attorney about your options
Penalties for a public intoxication conviction will vary both by jurisdiction and whether the individual has prior offenses. In most states and counties, public intoxication is usually charged as a misdemeanor offense, which can mean jail time, fines, community service, probation, or any combination of the above. When arrested for public intoxication, the individual can fight the charge by a showing of one or several public intoxication defenses. One defense to public intoxication is based on the voluntariness of intoxication.
It depends on whether you were cited as a misdemeanor or an infraction. Public Intoxication is usually an infraction. Generally speaking, infractions are not visible on your public record, but will be part of your criminal history and will be visible only to law enforcement officers. If you're eventually convicted of a misdemeanor for 647(f) or 11550 (depending on what you under the influence of), there will obviously be a public record of that conviction. Talk to an attorney about your option
In some jurisdictions, simply annoying other individuals while intoxicated in public can be grounds for a public intoxication charge. Public intoxication charges are not limited to individuals under the influence of alcohol. When arrested for public intoxication, the individual can fight the charge by a showing of one or several public intoxication defenses. One defense to public intoxication is based on the voluntariness of intoxication.
Indiana law views public intoxication as a misdemeanor which results in a maximum punishment of up to $1,000 fine and up to 180 days in jail. Usually, on a first offense, a person can work out a deal with the prosecutor for a deferred sentence. 
If your case is charged as a petty misdemeanor, you'll be issued a citation that carries roughly the same weight as a traffic ticket. As a condition of your citation, you'll need to pay a fine of between $150 and $500. You'll also be sentenced to time served.. Since you were probably forced to spend the day or night of your arrest in jail, you won't need to serve any further prison time.
1 In the majority of states with public intoxication laws, public intoxication is considered a misdemeanor, punishable by fines, jail time, probation, or community service. 2  For example, a first offense for public intoxication in Indiana may be punished with up to 180 days in jail and a $1,000 fine. 1 Public intoxication as a crime. 2 
If your case is charged as a simple or Class D misdemeanor, you'll be hit with a somewhat larger fine of between $300 and $1,000. You may also be sentenced to a term of unsupervised probation. Finally, you may be required to perform a few dozen hours of community service. As a condition of your citation, you'll need to pay a fine of between $150 and $500. You'll also be sentenced to time served.. Since you were probably forced to spend the day or night of your arrest in jail, you won't need to serve any further prison time.