Keeping that certification up-to-date shows that you're schooled on the latest technologies. 1  Certified Salesforce developers are sought after like never before. 2  There's been 159% growth in demand for Salesforce talent since 2008 (Hire On-Demand 2012). 1 There's been 159% growth in demand for Salesforce talent since 2008 (Hire On-Demand 2012). 2  Since many companies search specifically for credentials, getting certified can open doors in your career and allow you to compete for more complex projects.
The Salesforce Certified Administrator exam is intended for an individual who has experience performing as a Salesforce Administrator. Here are examples of the concepts you should understand to pass the exam: The samples below are representative of the questions on the Salesforce Certified Administrator exam and are designed to help you become familiar with the types of questions on the exam. The actual exam questions may be more or less difficult than the questions below.
Find out if you are ready to take the exam now. Salesforce certification exams recognize experience as well as study. In fact, some exams are based as much on industry and real-world experience as on formal training. Review the Study Guide for the credential you are interested in to uncover your best route to certification. Get certified! Salesforce certification exams recognize experience as well as study. In fact, some exams are based as much on industry and real-world experience as on formal training.
by Sunil K. 2 Comments. The exam fees for Salesforce.com certification exam varies from exam to exam. Here is the fee for Salesforce.com certification exams: 1  Developer: USD 200. 2  Advanced Developer: USD 400. 3  Administrator: USD 200. 4  Advanced Administrator: USD 200. 5  Sales Cloud Consultant: USD 200. 6  Service Cloud Consultant: USD 200. 7  Architect: USD 500.
Certification Exam Cost. Official training is not required in order to take the certification exams. Salesforce provides study guides that prepare individuals to take the exams. Some exams are taken in a proctored (supervised) environment. Salesforce Certification Cost is between 200 and 500 US Dollars depending on the level of certification. Certification for Technical Architect includes an examination before a review board for a hypothetical scenario and case study. The Salesforce onboarding process requires training for everyone who will use the product, but that doesn’t mean formal training or that certification is right for everyone. Certification for key roles allows the organization to develop, implement and manage the Salesforce solution.