The surname Lamb is English. It's original origins are from Northumberland, England, but the first written record of the family name was found in Kent, England. Although the s … urname Lamb can readily be found throughout the English-speaking world, the name is decidedly English. The last name Alexander comes from the 1989 ara, Anthony Alexander (BADASS).
Patronymic names identify people as their fathers’ children. For example, a father named Richard might have a son named Thomas. Thomas might have become known as Thomas Richards. Likewise, a father named John might have had a son named Stephen. Ask your family members if they know about the history of your last name. You might be surprised at how much you can find out if anyone has ever researched your family's ancestry. Have fun sharing stories and learning more about your family's history.
Patronymic, matronymic, or ancestral. Patronymic surnames (those that come from a male given name) include Benson (“the son of Ben”), Davis, Dawson, Evans, Harris, Harrison, Jackson, Jones (Welsh for John), Nicholson, Richardson, Robinson, Rogers, Simpson, Stephenson, Thompson, Watson, and Wilson. From an English place name. A last name may have pointed to where a person was born, lived, worked, or owned land. It might be from the name of a house, farm, hamlet, town, or county. Some examples: Bedford, Burton, Hamilton, Hampshire, Sutton.
This is the possible origin of the name Adams but it does not necessarily show where your ancestry leads. Surname: Adams This interesting surname is a patronymic of Adam, which is of English origin, and is from the Hebrew personal name Adam, which was borne, according to Genesis, by the first man. The name is of uncertain etymology; however, it is often said to be from the Hebrew adama, earth. 
1 The father's first name is used as a surname in certain Southern states, such as Kerala, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. 2  Spouses and children take on the first name of the father as their last name or 'surname'. 3  Muslim surnames generally follow the same rules used in Pakistan. When most of Iranian surnames are used with a name, the name will be ended with a suffix _E or _ie (of) such as Hasan_e roshan (Hasan is name and roshan is surname) that means Hasan of Roshan or Mosa_ie saiidi (Muses of saiidi).
Hi Araceli, My family name is also Gallardo, and my family is from the Philippines (which was a Spanish colony for about 3 centuries beginning in the early 1500s). My great grandfather who was believed to be of Spanish descent was the carrier of the name. 
Many of us have surnames passed down to us from ancestors in England. Last names weren’t widely used until after the Norman conquest in 1066, but as the country’s population grew, people found it necessary to be more specific when they were talking about somebody else. From an English place name. A last name may have pointed to where a person was born, lived, worked, or owned land. It might be from the name of a house, farm, hamlet, town, or county. Some examples: Bedford, Burton, Hamilton, Hampshire, Sutton.
My husband’s last name, Covin, is an Anglicized version of the original French name, Couvain. Apparently, a sailor, Jean-Pierre, from Marseilles, sailed with General Lafayette to serve in the American Revolutionary War. After the war, he asked permission to return from France and settle here. It is a very unusual name, except in South Carolina, where he first settled, Georgia, where my husband’s family has lived for five generations, and Texas, where one brother moved several generations after the first settlers..
A family name (in Western contexts often referred to as a surname or last name) is typically a part of a person's personal name which, according to law or custom, is passed or given to children from one or both of their parents' family names. When most of Iranian surnames are used with a name, the name will be ended with a suffix _E or _ie (of) such as Hasan_e roshan (Hasan is name and roshan is surname) that means Hasan of Roshan or Mosa_ie saiidi (Muses of saiidi).