Cook pork, roasts, and chops to 145 ºF as measured with a food thermometer, then allow the meat to rest for three minutes before carving or consuming. Cross posted from the FoodSafety.gov blog: On May 24, USDA made some important changes in their recommended cooking temperatures for meats. Here’s what you need to know: 1  Cooking Whole Cuts of Pork: USDA has lowered the recommended safe cooking temperature for whole cuts of pork from 160 ºF to 145 ºF with the addition of a three-minute rest time.
USDA now recommends cooking all whole cuts of meat to 145°F as measured with a food thermometer placed in the thickest part of the meat, then allowing the meat to rest for three minutes before carving or consuming. The safe temperature for cuts of beef, veal, and lamb remains unchanged at 145°F, but the USDA is adding a three-minute rest time as part of its cooking recommendations. A temperature of 145°F would be termed 'medium rare.'.
In 2006, USDA’s Food Safety and Inspection Service (FSIS) lowered the recommended temperature for poultry from 180° F to 165° F. At that time, USDA said chicken and turkey should be cooked more thoroughly than other meats because Salmonella is the most heat-resistant pathogen of concern in raw poultry. This latest revision for pork comes again on the advice of the FSIS, which says cooking cuts of pork to 145° F with a three minute rest is as safe as cooking them to 160° F, the previously recommended temperature, with no rest time.
I nternal Cooking Temperatures. These are internal cooking temperatures established by USDA Food Safety and Inspection Service for various meat items. The temperatures are recommended for consumers cooking meat products at home. Other temperatures may be recommended for food processing or foodservice operations. A cooking thermometer can help. IMPORTANT: After desired cooking temperature is reached, remove meat from heat source and let stand 10 to 15 minutes before carving. The amount of time required for resting varies with the size of the cut of your meat.
USDA Recommended Safe Minimum Internal Temperatures. 1  Cook all raw beef, pork, lamb and veal steaks, chops, and roasts to a minimum internal temperature of 145 °F as measured with a food thermometer before removing meat from the heat source. 1 Cook all raw beef, pork, lamb and veal steaks, chops, and roasts to a minimum internal temperature of 145 °F as measured with a food thermometer before removing meat from the heat source. 2  For safety and quality, allow meat to rest for at least three minutes before carving or consuming.
Remove steaks and burgers from the heat when the thermometer registers 5°F lower than the desired doneness, and roasts 5-10°F lower, as the temperature will continue to rise while resting. The USDA recommends steaks and roasts be cooked to 145°F (medium) and then rested for at least 3 minutes. To ensure food safety, ground beef should be cooked to a minimum 160°F (well done). Be sure to check with a thermometer, as color alone is not a foolproof indicator. 
Temperature is a gauge of how thoroughly cooked a cut of meat is based on the color, juiciness and internal temperature when cooked. The gradations of cooking are most often used in reference to beef (especially steak and roasts) but are also applicable to lamb, pork, poultry, veal and seafood (especially fish). 
1 Cooking Whole Cuts of Pork: USDA has lowered the recommended safe cooking temperature for whole cuts of pork from 160 ºF to 145 ºF with the addition of a three-minute rest time. Here’s what you need to know: 1 
The USDA is lowering the recommended safe cooking temperature for whole cuts of pork from 160°F to 145°F and adding a three-minute rest time. The safe temperature for cuts of beef, veal, and lamb remains unchanged at 145°F, but the USDA is adding a three-minute rest time as part of its cooking recommendations. A temperature of 145°F would be termed 'medium rare.'.