Now, most germination failure (especially with warm season grass) is because the grass seed was planted too early. Grass seeds have an outer shell (the hull) that prevents germination until conditions are right. Proper soil temperature is a big factor in the success you’ll have. For cool season grass, the ideal soil temperature is a minimum of 45-55 degrees (F). The perfect air temperature for spreading cool season grass seed is 60-70 degrees (F). A helpful tip: When choosing your grass seed look for the germination rate on the label. This is the percentage of seeds that germinated in lab tests. The higher the better.
Temperature. Grass seed germinates when the soil temperature is 65 degrees and above. It's important to understand that it is the soil temperature, and not the surrounding air temperature, that is the trigger for seed germination.
Germination Failure. Grass seeds may fail if the temperatures aren't right for the particular type of grass. For example, warm-season grasses planted during a spring cold snap will stay dormant. As they lay in the soil, surrounding weed seeds take over the space and make it harder for the grass to become established. If your seeds remain at their ideal temperature range and are planted no more than 1/4 inch deep, you should see germination after three weeks. It is critical to keep the top 1/2 inch of soil moist with a misty spray so the seeds continue to absorb moisture as the seedling grows larger.
Usually planted in the early fall, cool-season grass seeds prefer daytime temperatures ranging from 60 to 75 F. With this temperature range, the soil itself is usually between 50 and 65 F -- the right environment for germination. If your seeds remain at their ideal temperature range and are planted no more than 1/4 inch deep, you should see germination after three weeks. It is critical to keep the top 1/2 inch of soil moist with a misty spray so the seeds continue to absorb moisture as the seedling grows larger.
Cool season grass such as Fescue, germinate best when the soil temperatures are between 50&deg and 65&deg degrees F. These soil temperatures usually occur when the daytime air temperatures are between 60&deg and 75&deg degrees. The fescue grasses, when planted properly, germinate within 10 to 14 days. When To Plant Fescue Grass. Fall is the best time to plant fescue and other cool season grass. Planting in the Fall presents the least risk of planting failure for cool season grass. Plant your cool season grass seed when the fall temperatures reach 75&deg and are dropping as winter approaches.
Keep in mind that some warm-season grasses, including some cultivars of bermudagrass and St. Augustine grass, don't do well when planted from seed. The soil temperature range for most warm-season grasses is between 65 and 75 degrees Fahrenheit and sometimes higher. Optimal air temperatures for warm-season grasses are 80 to 95 degrees Fahrenheit. 
Several factors will determine the germination rate of grass seed. Air temperature, soil to seed contact, , presence and consistency of moisture and, age and quality of the seed. 
The basic requirements for germination of turfgrass seed are adequate moisture, favorable temperatures, and oxygen. The first step in seed germination is absorption of water (sometimes referred to as imbibition). 
The optimum soil temperature for germination and root growth of Bermuda grass is 75° to 80° F (24° to 27° C) - Higher temps are ok, provided moisture is maintained. • Site Selection: Plant Bermuda grass in full sun on well-drained soil. when soil temperatures are consistently above 65° F (18° C). The optimum soil temperature for germination and root.
Grass seed needs a minimum temperature of 65 degrees and will germinate faster at higher soil temperatures as long as the increased heat doesn't dry out the seeds and soil. Grass seed germinates when the soil temperature is 65 degrees and above. It's important to understand that it is the soil temperature, and not the surrounding air temperature, that is the trigger for seed germination.