Three types of fossil fuels are coal, oil, and natural gas (: coal gas and oil Coal, Natural Gas, Oil   Coal, Oil, Natural Gas Coal, Petroleum(Crude Oil) and Natural Gas. … Oil, coal, gas. There are three different types of fossil fuels and they are: crude oil, natural gas and coal. Fossil fuels are made of the remaining bodies of prehistoric creatures and … plant matter. Some would include oil shale and bituminous sands, although current commercial production is minor. + 33 others found this useful.
Fossil fuels release carbon dioxide when they burn, which adds to the greenhouse effect and increases global warming. Of the three fossil fuels, for a given amount of energy released, coal produces the most carbon dioxide and natural gas produces the least. Coal and oil release sulfur dioxide gas when they burn, which causes breathing problems for living creatures and contributes to acid rain. The common fuels used in power stations include: 1  fossil fuels (coal, oil and natural gas). 2  nuclear fuels (uranium and, sometimes, plutonium). 3  renewable biomass (wood, straw and manure).
FOSSIL FUELS. Fossil fuels are made of the fossilized remains of living things that died millions of years ago. Coal, oil, and gas are the most important fossil fuels. Today, they provide most of the world’s energy. Plant remains decay to make brown, crumbly peat when they are buried and squashed. Fuel is something that can be burned to produce energy in the form of heat or power. Fuels include coal, oil, natural gas, and wood. Humans have been burning wood for warmth, and to light homes and cook food, since civilization began.
Some of them exist infinitely (never run out, called RENEWABLE), the rest have finite amounts (they took millions of years to form, and will run out one day, called NON-RENEWABLE). Non-renewable energy is energy from fossil fuels (coal, crude oil, natural gas) and uranium. Fossil fuels are mainly made up of Carbon. It is believed that fossil fuels were formed over 300 million years ago, when the earth was a lot different in its landscape. 
The three fossil fuels--oil, natural gas and coal--are the decayed remains of the plants and animals that lived and died more than 300 million years ago. Buried and compressed under layers of rock and sand in the earth and beneath the oceans, those remains became the deposits of fossil fuels. 
Fossil fuels consist of deposits of once living organisms. The organic matter takes centuries to form. Fossil fuels principally consist of carbon and hydrogen bonds. There are three types of fossil fuels which can all be used for energy provision; coal, oil and natural gas. Coal is a solid fossil fuel formed over millions of years by decay of land vegetation. When layers are compacted and heated over time, deposits are turned into coal
Oil, coal, and natural gas are the three main types of fossil fuels. The three fossil fuels are natural gas, coal, oil. They were formed  in the earth from vegetation and other organic material 300 million  years ago.
Where Fossil Fuels Come From. There are three major forms of fossil fuels: coal, oil and natural gas. All three were formed many hundreds of millions of years ago before the time of the dinosaurs – hence the name fossil fuels. The age they were formed is called the Carboniferous Period. It was part of the Paleozoic Era. Some deposits of coal can be found during the time of the dinosaurs. For example, thin carbon layers can be found during the late Cretaceous Period (65 million years ago) – the time of Tyrannosaurus Rex. But the main deposits of fossil fuels are from