The third process that causes volcanic eruptions is an injection of new magma into a chamber that is already filled with magma of similar or different composition. This injection forces some of the magma in the chamber to move up in the conduit and erupt at the surface. MOLTEN ROCK, or magma, and gasses spew from the mouth of a volcano in the Hawaiian islands. As rock inside the earth melts, its mass remains the same while its volume increases--producing a melt that is less dense than the surrounding rock.
A volcano is basically a vent from which, magma, gases, and volcanic ash escape to the Earth's surface, through faults in the crust. They may erupt violently like Krakatoa in 1883, or just seep out lava like the Kilauea volcano. Formed as a result of plate tectonics, volcanic eruptions can result in the formation of mountains, craters, crater lakes, plateaus, and islands. Earth is made of four concentric layers-inner core, outer core, mantle, and crust.
The violence of an eruption depends on how much pressure the volcano is under before it erupts. Volcanoes are caused to erupt when the inner core of the earth holds more pressure or heat inside it. Volcanoes are the outside source of releasing the lava and magma that the earth has inside it. When a volcano erupts it means that the earth is releasing a large amount of pressure from within. Magma is continuously supplied from the mantle of the Earth. 
1 A volcano is formed by eruptions of lava and ash. 2  Volcanoes are usually cone shaped mountains or hills. 3  When magma [magma: Magma is molten rock. ] 4  reaches the Earth's surface it is called lava. 1 When this pressure is released, eg as a result of plate movement, magma explodes to the surface causing a volcanic eruption. 2  The lava from the eruption cools to form new crust. 3  Over time, after several eruptions, the rock builds up and a volcano forms.
Several types of volcanic eruptions —during which lava, tephra (ash, lapilli, volcanic bombs and blocks), and assorted gases are expelled from a volcanic vent or fissure —have been distinguished by volcanologists. These are often named after famous volcanoes where that type of behavior has been observed. 
Inside a volcano. Volcanic activity frequently occurs at the boundaries of the Earth's tectonic plates which are a series of large blocks moving between each other. The movement of these plates plays a significant role in the type of volcano formed, which influences its shape. 
Most recently, Professor Kilinc has been studying volcanoes in Hawaii and Montserrat. When a part of the earth's upper mantle or lower crust melts, magma forms. A volcano is essentially an opening or a vent through which this magma and the dissolved gases it contains are discharged. MOLTEN ROCK, or magma, and gasses spew from the mouth of a volcano in the Hawaiian islands. As rock inside the earth melts, its mass remains the same while its volume increases--producing a melt that is less dense than the surrounding rock.
Volcanic eruptions are caused when magma from the magma chamber of the Earth rises up the pipe and out of the vent. Magma is continuously supplied from the mantle of the Earth. Shield volcanoes usually have a gentle eruption, as it contains basic lava. Another type of eruption in what is known as a boiler volcano results from water that gets trapped inside porous rock, and is then heated by the mantle, until is turns into steam and the steam pressure causes the volcano to explode. These explosions can be extremely large.
Volcanoes form when magma reaches the Earth's surface, causing eruptions of lava and ash. They occur at destructive (compressional) and constructive (tensional) plate boundaries. The immediate effects of volcanic eruptions can be devastating, but they may be beneficial in the long term. 1 When this pressure is released, eg as a result of plate movement, magma explodes to the surface causing a volcanic eruption. 2  The lava from the eruption cools to form new crust. 3  Over time, after several eruptions, the rock builds up and a volcano forms.
Key facts. 1  A volcano is formed by eruptions of lava and ash. 2  Volcanoes are usually cone shaped mountains or hills. 3  When magma [magma: Magma is molten rock. ] 4  reaches the Earth's surface it is called lava. 5  When the lava cools, it forms rock. 1 When this pressure is released, eg as a result of plate movement, magma explodes to the surface causing a volcanic eruption. 2  The lava from the eruption cools to form new crust. 3  Over time, after several eruptions, the rock builds up and a volcano forms.