Kennelly was born in Ballylongford, County Kerry, on 17 April 1936 and was educated at the inter-denominational St. Ita's College, Tarbert, County Kerry, and at Trinity College, where he edited Icarus. Brendan was married to Margaret (Peggy) O’Brien for 18 years, Peggy was Brendan’s colleague in the English Department at Trinity College. They lived together in Sandymount, Dublin, with daughter Doodle for 12 years before separating. Brendan and Peggy remain friends and Peggy is now remarried.
Brendan Kennelly (born 1936) is an Irish poet and novelist. Now retired from teaching, he was Professor of Modern Literature at Trinity College, Dublin until 2005. Since his retirement he has been titled Professor Emeritus by Trinity College. He is father to one daughter, Doodle Kennelly and is also grandfather to Doodle's three daughters: Meg, Hannah and Grace. Brendan was married to Margaret (Peggy) O’Brien for 18 years, Peggy was Brendan’s colleague in the English Department at Trinity College. They lived together in Sandymount, Dublin, with daughter Doodle for 12 years before separating. Brendan and Peggy remain friends and Peggy is now remarried.
Brendan Kennelly. Brendan Kennelly was born in Co Kerry in 1936. He has published over thirty books of poetry. He is the author of a version of Euripides’ Medea (Peacock Theatre, Dublin, 1990, published by Bloodaxe Books, Tarset, UK, 1991); and Euripides’ The Trojan Women (Peacock Theatre, published by Bloodaxe Books, 1993). Many later poetry collections followed, and his most recent are published by Bloodaxe. He was Professor of Modern Literature at Trinity College, Dublin for over 30 years, and retired from that post in 2005. His official biography, Brendan Kennelly: Behind the Smile was published by Raglan Books
And old pumps with buckets and windlasses. I loved the dark drop, the trapped sky, the smells. Of waterweed, fungus and dank moss. One, in a brickyard, with a rotted board top. I savoured the rich crash when a bucket. Plummeted down at the end of a rope. So deep you saw no reflection in it. A shallow one under a dry stone ditch. Fructified like any aquarium.
He edited The Penguin Book of Irish Verse (Penguin Books, London, 1970); Between Innocence and Peace: Favourite Poems of Ireland (Cork, Mercier Press, 1993); Ireland’s Women: Writings Past and Present (with Katie Donovan and A. Norman Jaffares, London, Gill & Macmillan, 1994); and Dublines (Bloodaxe, 1996). 
All year the flax-dam festered in the heart. Of the townland; green and heavy headed. Flax and rotted there, weighted down by huge sods. Daily it sweltered in the punishing sun. Bubbles gargled delicately, bluebottles. Wove a strong gauze of sound around the smell. I loved the dark drop, the trapped sky, the smells. Of waterweed, fungus and dank moss. One, in a brickyard, with a rotted board top. I savoured the rich crash when a bucket. Plummeted down at the end of a rope. So deep you saw no reflection in it. A shallow one under a dry stone ditch. Fructified like any aquarium.
Brendan Kennelly is also a celebrated dramatist and has published six volumes of selected poems, most recently A Time For Voices-Selected Poems 1960-1990. A brilliant Kerryman, Kennelly is much admired, and his stories and anecdotes in this interview are simply wonderful. Brendan Kennelly is one of Ireland's most famous authors and literary figures, and he and his brothers were all great sportsmen. This exclusive Terrace Talk sees Brendan recalling, in his own captivating way, his young life, his love for his home county and his favourite Kerry people. Definitely compulsive listening. Brendan Kennelly was born in Ballylongford Co. Kerry in 1936. He was educated at St.Ita's college in Tarbert, Co. Kerry and later at Trinity College Dublin where he has been professor of Modern Literature since 1975