A residual current device (RCD) is a safety devicethat switches off electricity automatically if thereis a fault. RCDs are far more sensitive thannormal fuses and circuit-breakers and provideadditional protection against electric shock.Additional protection by means of an RCD canbe a lifesaver. An RCD constantly monitors theelectric current flowing along a circuit. An appliance can then be plugged intothe RCD. These are useful when neither fixed norsocket-outlet RCDs are available, but again theyprovide protection only to the person in contactwith the equipment, including the leads,plugged into the portable RCD.
Derry, Ireland. Country: An RCBO is an RCD and provides integral overcurrent protection, ergo certain types of RCD do provide overcurrent protection like I said. This does not imply that it is the RCD function of the RCBO providing it, of course. 0. Country: RCD's DO NOT provide overload protection. Whether or not this circuit you speak of will operate the device under excess load, it's not recognised or listed in 7671 as an overload device, and an RCD should be used in conjunction with suitably rated fuses or mcbs.
In the United Kingdom, these are better known by their initials RCD, and a combined RCD+MCB is known as a RCBO (residual-current circuit breaker with overcurrent protection). An earth leakage circuit breaker (ELCB) may be a residual-current device, although an older type of voltage-operated earth leakage circuit breaker also exists.
If you have fixed RCD protection, you can rely on it to not only reduce therisk of electric shock to you and your family, but also to reduce the risk of damage being caused toyour property by fire caused by faulty wiring or appliances. 21. Portable RCDs – plug into any standard socket-outlet. An appliance can then be plugged intothe RCD. These are useful when neither fixed norsocket-outlet RCDs are available, but again theyprovide protection only to the person in contactwith the equipment, including the leads,plugged into the portable RCD.
A residual-current device (RCD), or residual-current circuit breaker (RCCB), is a device to quickly disconnect current to prevent serious harm from an ongoing electric shock. Injury may still occur in some cases, for example if a person falls after receiving a shock. An earth leakage circuit breaker (ELCB) may be a residual-current device, although an older type of voltage-operated earth leakage circuit breaker also exists.
An RCD on its own does not provide protection against overcurrent’s. Overcurrent protection is provided by a fuse or a miniature circuit-breaker (MCB). However, combined RCD and MCBs are available and are designated RCBOs. 
A RCD does not provide protection against unexpected or dangerously high current when current is flowing in the usual wires in the circuit, therefore it cannot replace a fuse or protect against overheating or fire risk due to overcurrent (overload) or short circuits if the fault does not lead to current leakage. An earth leakage circuit breaker (ELCB) may be a residual-current device, although an older type of voltage-operated earth leakage circuit breaker also exists.
RCDs 1 1. What is an RCD and what does it do? An RCD is defined, in BS 7671, as: ‘A mechanical switching device orassociation of devices intended to causethe opening of the contacts when theresidual current attains a given valueunder specified conditions’. 2. Types of RCDs. RCD is the generic term for a device. that operates when the residual. current in the circuit reaches a. predetermined value. The list above indicates the different. types of RCD available, a description of. each device and examples of how the. device is used.