Ultrafiltration. Urea, along with salt, water and glucose, etc., is extracted from the blood in the kidney by a process called ultrafiltration. Blood passing the top of the nephron is under high pressure, so fluid is forced through the sieve-like capillaries and into the capsule. This fluid is called the filtrate
1 Each nephron is made up of several parts. 2  The blind end of the nephron is pushed in on itself to form a cup-like structure called Bowman's capsule. 3  Blood from the renal artery flows through an afferent arteriole, into the glomerulus, a capillary bed that is situated inside the Bowman's capsule. 1 Blood from the renal artery flows through an afferent arteriole, into the glomerulus, a capillary bed that is situated inside the Bowman's capsule. 2  The blood in the glomerulus is under pressure and the capillary walls are fenestrated (perforated) to allow blood plasma through.
Best Answer: ultra filtration and reabsorption in kidney is carried out by its functional unit called nephron. Ultra filtration occurs between the glomerulus and Bowman's capsule of nephron. The larger afferent arteriole than efferent arteriole speeds up the ultra filtration. Ultrafiltration Selective Reabsorption Selective reabsorption occurs in the proximal convoluted tubule. This is the longest and widest part of the nephron. In this part over 80% of the filtrate is reabsorbed into the blood. Ensuring all useful material is returned to the blood
The Renal Corpuscle. Together, the glomerulus and its surrounding Bowman's capsule are called a renal corpuscle. This structure is located in the renal cortex. You should also be aware that the nephron is composed of two main parts: the renal tubule and the renal corpuscle. for Teachers for Schools for Companies. Together, the glomerulus and Bowman's capsule make up the renal corpuscle of the nephron. These parts of the nephron filter blood and are vital to our body's survival. In this lesson, you'll explore the major corpuscular structures and their functions.
Ultrafiltration occurs in the renal or bowman's capsule. The renal artery which brings blood to the kidney is split up into numerous arterioles, each feeding a nephron. The arterioles split into numerous capillaries which form a knot called a glomerulus. This is surrounded by the bowman's capsule. 
Together, the glomerulus and Bowman's capsule make up the renal corpuscle of the nephron. These parts of the nephron filter blood and are vital to our body's survival. for Teachers for Schools for Companies. Together, the glomerulus and Bowman's capsule make up the renal corpuscle of the nephron. These parts of the nephron filter blood and are vital to our body's survival. In this lesson, you'll explore the major corpuscular structures and their functions.
Renal capsule – Ultrafiltration The renal artery splits into numerous arterioles, each feeding a nephron. The arteriole splits into numerous capillaries, which form a knot called a glomerulus. The glomerulus is enclosed by the renal capsule (or Bowman’s capsule)- the first part of the nephron. The renal artery carries blood to the kidney, while the renal vein carries blood, now with far lower concentrations of urea and mineral ions, away from the kidney. The urine formed passes down the ureter to the bladder. Ureter (urine out) The important part of the kidney is a folded tube called
In biological terms, ultrafiltration occurs at the barrier between the blood and the filtrate in the renal capsule or Bowman's capsule in the kidneys. The Bowman's capsule contains a dense capillary network called the glomerulus. The high hydrostatic pressure forces small molecules such as water, glucose, amino acids, sodium chloride and urea through the filter, from the blood in the glomerular capsule across the basement membrane of the Bowman's capsule and into the nephron.