1 Remember to switch off the sauna belt after 50 minutes! 2  Put on the Sauna Belt a little loosely (Not too tight!), in such a way that you can check every 10 minutes if your skin is getting red. 3  If your skin gets red, reduce the temperature to avoid possible skin injury. Do not exceed 50 minutes per session. It is recommended to use the sauna belt for 40 minutes. Do not use the Sauna Belt for periods of more than 45 days, wait a week before using it again.
The guidelines for how often, how long, and what type of exercise you should be doing in the Sauna Suit can vary greatly depending upon your health and age. You exercise at least 3-5 times a week for 20-60 minutes at a time. 
A sauna heating belt is a ridiculous gimmick of a product that will burn your skin and likely cause blisters. You will not lose inches off your waist but you will lose about $30 if you fall for this swindle. The main problem with the belts is that most users try too hard to lose weight quickly and end up wearing the sauna heating belt too long. In an attempt to get some kind of result for their cash outlay, they usually wind up after a session or two with itchy prickly rashes and burns.
I lose weight by doing gym and going sauna too much after 2 yrs.. But during the weight loss program, I used too much sauna and my face skin look too soft and when it dries, I look old too me. I am a male, 26 yrs old, getting married in 2 months. I have 178 cm height and around 95 kg weight. I dont have any medical abnormalities. Sir, do you think Sauna belt is advisable for me to reduce my ...
1 DO NOT use the Sauna Belt longer than 50 minutes. 2  Remember to switch off the sauna belt after 50 minutes! 3  Put on the Sauna Belt a little loosely (Not too tight!), in such a way that you can check every 10 minutes if your skin is getting red. 4  If your skin gets red, reduce the temperature to avoid possible skin injury. Do not exceed 50 minutes per session. It is recommended to use the sauna belt for 40 minutes. Do not use the Sauna Belt for periods of more than 45 days, wait a week before using it again.
Tips & Warnings. 1  A sauna belt will be of no use unless accompanied by healthy diet and exercise. 2  Do not wear the sauna belt for more than 45 to 50 minutes at a time. Towel yourself dry--if you did it right you should be soaking in sweat--and wait a minimum of 15 minutes before bathing, showering, or even having a cold drink. Wear a T-shirt if you have sensitive skin because the sauna belt may cause skin irritation or in some cases even burns.
Check your body to see that you are producing sweat, If you are not, you have reduced the temperature too much. Stand up and, if possible, move around rather than sitting to burn more calories. Wear the sauna belt for 45 minutes. Towel yourself dry--if you did it right you should be soaking in sweat--and wait a minimum of 15 minutes before bathing, showering, or even having a cold drink. Wear a T-shirt if you have sensitive skin because the sauna belt may cause skin irritation or in some cases even burns.
The one-size-fits-all sauna belt alleges to help sweat away unwanted fat, eliminate cellulite, help you lose weight and alleviate muscle pain, all while sitting comfortably in a chair in front of the TV. The main problem with the belts is that most users try too hard to lose weight quickly and end up wearing the sauna heating belt too long. In an attempt to get some kind of result for their cash outlay, they usually wind up after a session or two with itchy prickly rashes and burns.
Also called sweat belts or sauna belts, sweat bands take one of two forms: a plastic wrap that encompasses your midsection, holding heat in as you exercise; or a similar belt with its own heating mechanism, meant to be used when you're idle. 
For best results, you should use the Sauna Belt for 50 minutes at a time. Do not exceed 50 minutes per session. It is recommended to use the sauna belt for 40 minutes. Do not use the Sauna Belt for periods of more than 45 days, wait a week before using it again.