Join Coney Island for Friday Night Fireworks. The show starts at 9:30pm every Friday night during the season. Friday Night Fireworks start the last weekend in June and conclude the Friday before Labor Day. Friday Night Fireworks are brought to you by the Alliance for Coney Island.
Coney Island puts on an amazing fireworks show for the residents and visitors of Coney Island. The Brooklyn Cyclones Minor League baseball team will host the Williamsport Crosscutters at MCU Park and after the game at approximately 9:45pm, the Fourth of July fireworks show will begin.
Answer: You can see free fireworks on the Coney Island boardwalk every Friday in the summer, on some Saturdays, and for a few special events, too (notably, in honor of Independence Day and for the first home game played by the Brooklyn Cyclones.).
Every Friday is a reason to celebrate! Join Coney Island for Friday Night Fireworks. The show starts at 9:30pm every Friday night during the season. Friday Night Fireworks start the last weekend in June and conclude the Friday before Labor Day. Friday Night Fireworks are brought to you by the Alliance for Coney Island.
Fireworks on the Coney Island Beach Fireworks shoot off at 9:30pm-10:45 every Friday night during the season, starting the last weekend in June and conclude the Friday before Labor Day. Fireworks are also played on the first home game for the Brooklyn Cyclones, and after some other games as well.
You can get up close and personal to the Coney Island fireworks, and see them from a view that is unmatched on land. We leave from Sheepshead Bay in Brooklyn every Friday, and take you on a very fun, affordable fireworks cruise. Book your spot on our Coney Island Fireworks Cruises today, and see why we’re are one of the best ways to see the amazing New York City waters.
Fireworks illuminate the sky over Lake Como at Coney Island during the 2013 Fire Up The Night competition. (Photo: Thanks to MPR Marketing). Firework teams from England, Brazil and Australia will compete in Fire Up The Night IV, an international fireworks competition, at Coney Island Saturday, Sept. 26.