This is a picture of an Amanita Muscaria http://www.fungi.co.nz/. Basic Body Structure. A typical fungus consists of hyphae, which form the fungal body. These hyphae are microscopic walled tubes or filaments that are lined with plasma membrane and contain cytoplasm.
- Most fungi are mulitcellular. The basic structural units of multicellular fungi are threadlike filaments called hyphae, which develop from fungal spores. - Hyphae elongate at their tips and branch to form a network of filaments called mycelium. - There are different types of hyphae in a mycelium. Some anchor the fungus, some invade the food source, some form fungal reproductive structures.
- In many types of fungi, cross walls called septa divide hyphae into one or more nuclei. - Septa are usually porous allowing the movement of cytoplasm and organelles from one part of the fungus to the other. This movement is quick and efficient. - Some fungi have hyphae with no septa.
DISCUSSION. Molds are multinucleated, filamentous fungi composed of hyphae. A hypha is a branching, tubular structure from 2-10 &#181m in diameter and is usually divided into cell-like units by crosswalls called septa. The total mass of hyphae is termed a mycelium.
The cell walls of the hyphae are made of chitin, a nitrogen containing polysaccharide that is strong but flexible. The cytoplasm is multinucleate and the hyphae may have septa, which are cross-walls used for more strength. Fungi can grow rapidly because of the structure of their mycelium.
Usually, when you see a patch of mushrooms, they're all connected by hyphae, which make up the majority of the fungi. The hyphae collect nutrients from the soil, transfer it to the rest of the organism and, in mutualistic fungi, transfer it to the symbiont organism as well.
Structure of Fungi. The main body of most fungi is made up of fine, branching, usually colourless threads called hyphae. Each fungus will have vast numbers of these hyphae, all intertwining to make up a tangled web called the mycelium.