References. Quizzes -. History of Radiography. X-rays were discovered in 1895 by Wilhelm Conrad Roentgen (1845-1923) who was a Professor at Wuerzburg University in Germany. Working with a cathode-ray tube in his laboratory, Roentgen observed a fluorescent glow of crystals on a table near his tube. Shortly after the discovery of X-rays, another form of penetrating rays was discovered. In 1896, French scientist Henri Becquerel discovered natural radioactivity. Many scientists of the period were working with cathode rays, and other scientists were gathering evidence on the theory that the atom could be subdivided.
X-radiation (composed of X-rays) is a form of electromagnetic radiation. Most X-rays have a wavelength ranging from 0.01 to 10 nanometers, corresponding to frequencies in the range 30 petahertz to 30 exahertz (3×10 16 Hz to 3×10 19 Hz) and energies in the range 100 eV to 100 keV. X-ray wavelengths are shorter than those of UV rays and typically longer than those of gamma rays. 1 X-ray microscopic analysis, which uses electromagnetic radiation in the soft X-ray band to produce images of very small objects. 2  X-ray fluorescence, a technique in which X-rays are generated within a specimen and detected.
The First X-ray, 1895. The discovery of a new and mysterious form of radiation in the late 19th century led to a revolution in medical imaging. By Hannah Waters | July 1, 2011. Wilhelm Rontgen took this radiograph of his wife's left hand on December 22, 1895, shortly after his discovery of X-rays. 
X-rays with photon energies above 5–10 keV (below 0.2–0.1 nm wavelength) are called hard X-rays, while those with lower energy are called soft X-rays. Due to their penetrating ability, hard X-rays are widely used to image the inside of objects, e.g., in medical radiography and airport security. 1 X-ray microscopic analysis, which uses electromagnetic radiation in the soft X-ray band to produce images of very small objects. 2  X-ray fluorescence, a technique in which X-rays are generated within a specimen and detected.
To the right is an image of a real X-ray detector. This instrument is called the Proportional Counter Array and it is on the Rossi X-ray Timing Explorer (RXTE) satellite. It looks very different from anything you might see at a dentist's office! To the right is an image of a real X-ray detector. To the left is the first picture of the Earth in X-rays, taken in March, 1996 with the orbiting Polar satellite. The area of brightest X-ray emission is red. The energetic charged particles from the Sun that cause aurora also energize electrons in the Earth's magnetosphere.
First, the discovery of X-rays. In late 1895, a German physicist, W. C. Roentgen was working with a cathode ray tube in his laboratory. He was working with tubes similar to our fluorescent light bulbs. He evacuated the tube of all air, filled it with a special gas, and passed a high electric voltage through it. After reading this section you will be able to do the following: 1  Summarize how Roentgen discovered the X-ray. 2  Discuss the impact Roentgen's discovery had on the world at that time (1895), and then compare it to the impact it still has today.
Wilhelm Conrad Roentgen-Röntgen First-x. Ray a week after his, Discovery rontgen took An-x ray photograph of his'wife s hand which clearly revealed her wedding ring and her. Bones the photograph electrified the general public and aroused great scientific interest in the new form of. radiation Calcium in bones absorbs X-rays the most, so bones look white on a film recording of the X-ray image, called a radiograph. Fat and other soft tissues absorb less, and look gray. Air absorbs the least, so lungs look black on
As a result, the term X-ray is metonymically used to refer to a radiographic image produced using this method, in addition to the method itself. Since the wavelengths of hard X-rays are similar to the size of atoms they are also useful for determining crystal structures by X-ray crystallography. 1 X-ray microscopic analysis, which uses electromagnetic radiation in the soft X-ray band to produce images of very small objects. 2  X-ray fluorescence, a technique in which X-rays are generated within a specimen and detected.
DISCOVERY OF X-RAYS. X-rays were first observed and documented in 1895 by German scientist Wilhelm Conrad Roentgen. He discovered that firing streams of x-rays through arms and hands created detailed images of the bones inside. When you get an x-ray taken, x-ray sensitive film is put on one side of your body, and x-rays are shot through you.