An artery is a hollow tube that carries blood from the heart to all the different regions of the body. What is the difference between an artery and a vein? The arteries take blood away from your heart to all the different organs in your body, including your brain, kidneys and liver. Arteries also take blood from the heart to all your limbs.
The main artery of the leg is called the Femoral Artery (see illustration below). There is a Femoral Artery in both the left leg and right leg and this artery begins in the groin of each leg, running all the way down to the knee. At the knee, the Femoral Artery continues as the Popliteal Artery, and below the knee the Popliteal Artery continues as the smaller Tibial Artery. The arteries take blood away from your heart to all the different organs in your body, including your brain, kidneys and liver. Arteries also take blood from the heart to all your limbs.
Tweet. The arteries to the legs carry oxygen-rich blood from the heart to the thigh, lower leg and foot. The main artery to the leg is the femoral artery. It is the continuation of the external iliac artery below the inguinal ligament. The external iliac artery is a branch of the common iliac artery which is formed when the abdominal aorta bifurcates (divides into two). The femoral artery gives off two branches – the deep artery of the thigh (profunda femoris artery) and the medial and lateral circumflex arteries. The circumflex arteries may arise from the deep artery of the thigh or directly from the femoral artery.
Split and merge into it. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. The major artery of the thigh is the Femoral artery and runs through the muscles, from the groin down the inner leg. It is approximately 4cm in length then it divides into two branches. The superficial femoral artery and the profunda femoris artery, which is closer to the femur that the femoral artery. The femoral artery does not leave the thigh and is aproximately 9 1/2 inches from groin to just above the knee.
Click to read more below. The femoral artery is the main artery that provides oxygenated blood to the tissues of the leg. It passes through the deep tissues of the femoral (or thigh) region of the leg parallel to the femur. The common femoral artery is the largest artery found in the femoral region of the body. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The femoral artery (Latin: arteria femoralis) is a large artery in the thigh and the main arterial supply to the lower limb. It enters the thigh from behind the inguinal ligament as the common femoral artery, a continuation of the external iliac artery. 1 The profunda femoris artery is a large and important branch that arises from the lateral side of the femoral artery about 1.5 in. ( 2 4 cm) below the inguinal ligament. 3  It passes medially behind the femoral vessels and enters the medial fascial compartment of the thigh.
Other important arteries of the leg include: 1  Popliteal artery: A branch of the femoral artery, the popliteal artery branches further to supply blood to the knee, thigh, and calf. In Depth: Vessels. Once blood is oxygenated in the lungs, it returns to the heart and is then pumped throughout the body. A web of blood vessels—arteries, veins, and capillaries—circulate blood to organs, muscles, bones, and other tissues.
1 Popliteal artery: A branch of the femoral artery, the popliteal artery branches further to supply blood to the knee, thigh, and calf. 2  It ends at the anterior and posterior tibial arteries. 3  Posterior tibial artery: This branch of the popliteal artery supplies oxygenated blood to the leg and sole of the foot. In Depth: Vessels. Once blood is oxygenated in the lungs, it returns to the heart and is then pumped throughout the body. A web of blood vessels—arteries, veins, and capillaries—circulate blood to organs, muscles, bones, and other tissues.