This part of the battle you'll be playing as Naruto with the Eight-Tails as your support, against the 6 Jinchuuriki's Tailed Beast forms (2-7 tails), fighting 2 at a time. For this method you'll have to give into guerrilla warfare of attacking and running around. Here you'll battle the 3, 4, and 6 Tails, in human form. You'll want to get rid of either Roushi, for his magma pillar can get annoying, or Utakata, for his bubble spamming. Mix up the lock-on to sub away from the other enemies attacks as well.
Report Abuse. In the manga, akatsuki captured the 3 tails. I was a minor 2 or 3 page deal in one of the chapters a little while back. The character Yuukimaru doesn't even exits in the manga. The anime just used the thing about the 3 tails and threw in some extra characters to create a short arc to prolong the series (and add buffer for the manga). As for the 5 6 and 7 talied beasts, I'm not sure
History. The Ōtsutsuki brothers and the Ten-Tails. Long before the founding of the hidden villages, the world was terrorised by a monster known as the Ten-Tails. Its rampages throughout the lands were stopped by the combined efforts of Hamura and Hagoromo Ōtsutsuki, who sealed the Ten-Tails within Hagoromo. As history's first jinchūriki, Hagoromo used the Ten-Tails' power to perform many great deeds during his lifetime, causing him to be revered as the Sage of the Six Paths.
For the first part of the battle you'll have the Ultimate Decision of battling the 6 Jinchuuriki at once (Legend), or split in 2 groups of 3 by Killer Bee (Hero), for the sake of the S rank choose Hero. Here you'll battle the 3, 4, and 6 Tails, in human form. You'll want to get rid of either Roushi, for his magma pillar can get annoying, or Utakata, for his bubble spamming. Mix up the lock-on to sub away from the other enemies attacks as well.
The young tailed beasts with Hagoromo. Isobu and the tailed beasts first came into being in the waning days of Hagoromo Ōtsutsuki, who used his Creation of All Things Technique to divide the Ten-Tails ' chakra into nine separate bodies and giving each a name. 1 Since Rin died without having Isobu extracted, Isobu is the first known tailed beast to have died and revived. 2  In the Three-Tails' Appearance, Isobu's capture took place much later than in the manga, but played out in much the same way.
Three-Tails' Appearance. Main article: Three-Tails' Appearance. The entrance to the dimension where the Three-Tails came from. In the anime, Orochimaru instructed Kabuto Yakushi and Team Guren to take a young boy named Yūkimaru to a lake. 1 Since Rin died without having Isobu extracted, Isobu is the first known tailed beast to have died and revived. 2  In the Three-Tails' Appearance, Isobu's capture took place much later than in the manga, but played out in much the same way.
Isobu (磯撫, Isobu), more commonly known as the Three-Tails (三尾, Sanbi), is one of the nine tailed beasts. 1 Since Rin died without having Isobu extracted, Isobu is the first known tailed beast to have died and revived. 2  In the Three-Tails' Appearance, Isobu's capture took place much later than in the manga, but played out in much the same way.
The Jinchuuriki and their Bijuu. Jinchuuriki meaning the power of human sacrifice, are those individuals possessing Bijuu or tailed demons within their bodies. The demons themselves differentiated by the number of tails their body possesses, and each has different characteristics. Akatsuki has termed the attachment of demons to an individual and the resulting loss of life a Jinchuuriki, literally the power of human sacrifice.. Such a technique will grant the human portions of the demons power.
Best Answer: Yuukimaru was not in the manga and neither was the 3 tails arc, and I don't know a thing about the 5, 6, or 7 tailed jinchuriki, but I think they might be shown in an arc on the anime, like the 3 tails. Hope I helped!!! ^_^. Source(s): Hinata_of the desert · 6 years ago. I was a minor 2 or 3 page deal in one of the chapters a little while back. The character Yuukimaru doesn't even exits in the manga. The anime just used the thing about the 3 tails and threw in some extra characters to create a short arc to prolong the series (and add buffer for the manga).