Vegetables that Bunnies Can Eat. Bunnies can eat most vegetables, but some rabbits are more sensitive than others. If you’re not sure what your rabbit can eat, start him off with just one type of green leafy for a few days. Watch his poops to make sure he doesn’t get diarrhea, and if he tolerates that vegetable fine, you can add a second type. Again, watch his poops for a few days to make sure he doesn’t get sick
As you can see eggplant contains a hint of phosphorus, they are a little acidic and are quite sweet. However, they do contain a little fiber and a little vitamin content. With this in mind, rabbits can eat eggplant but not too much of it. Twice to three times a week a week should suffice nicely enough for them, but nothing more than that. This is because of their sugar content in eggplant. October 13, 2014 Rabbit foods Chris. Eggplant is a popular food eaten across the United States. Also called ‘Aubergine’ it is actually a fruit an not a vegetable, which some including myself thought it was.
First answer: No. More info: Wild Rabbits According to the websites about gardening below (see Related Links), wild rabbits do not usually eat zucchini plants. Pet Rabbits … Zucchini is safe for pet rabbits, but only as a treat. The main parts of a rabbit's diet are hay, dark leafy greens, and pellets. Other fruit and vegetables (like zucchini) are a fine treat: one or two bites is enough. Not really, because the the tomato plant is poisonous to rabbits. All parts of the tomato plant are poisonous to bunnies (including leaves, vines, stems, etc.), except for the … fruit. Wild rabbits may eat some of the tomato fruit, if it comes across any.
Answers. Best Answer: Eggplant is fine but not the leaves Do not feed them tomatoes or the leaves Cucumbers are fine They can eat green peppers peaches are fine but not the pit plums are okay but not the pit watermelon is okay but feed it the seedless. Source(s): Rabbit owner and breeder. ❤Tasha❤ · 3 years ago. Thumbs up
Yes, rabbits do eat zucchini, however it isn't especially good for them. If you have a pet rabbit that likes zucchini, make sure you limit how much it eats. Zucchini is an acc … eptable treat for rabbits, but too many treats can lead to many different kinds of illness in rabbits. Rabbits should eat mostly hay, plus some pellets, some fresh greens, a … nd water. Any other foods (like fruits, or vegetables like carrot, squash, zucchini) should be considered a treat: a bite or two should be okay (assuming your rabbit is otherwise healthy).
Yes, wild rabbits do eat zucchini and other vegetables, but it isn't a major part of their diet, it's like a treat to them. Mostly, wild rabbits eat grass, twigs, weeds, and d … ark leafy greens like lettuces, carrot tops, etc. Other vegetables, and fruits, are treats. Rabbits should eat mostly hay, plus some pellets, some fresh greens, a … nd water. Any other foods (like fruits, or vegetables like carrot, squash, zucchini) should be considered a treat: a bite or two should be okay (assuming your rabbit is otherwise healthy).
Wild Rabbits According to the websites about gardening below (see Related Links), wild rabbits do not usually eat zucchini plants. Pet Rabbits Zucchini is safe for pet rabbits, but only as a treat. The main parts of a rabbit's diet are hay, dark leafy greens, and pellets. Rabbits should eat mostly hay, plus some pellets, some fresh greens, a … nd water. Any other foods (like fruits, or vegetables like carrot, squash, zucchini) should be considered a treat: a bite or two should be okay (assuming your rabbit is otherwise healthy).