Additional Resources for court staff, judges and attorneys. Juror Pay California pays jurors $15 every day starting on the second day of service, except employees of governmental entities who receive full pay and benefits from their employers while on jury service. Because governmental employers already pay these jurors, the courts do not pay them an additional daily fee. 
Texas law does not currently require that jury duty leave be paid, except for those who are salaried exempt employees (see below). A bill that would have required employers to pay $40 of jury duty pay for the first day of jury service did not pass during the 81st general session of the Texas Legislature in 2009. The general rule under both Texas and federal law is that an employer does not need to pay for time not worked. Jury duty leave is job-protected leave. An employee who is on jury duty is entitled to protection against termination or other adverse action by the employer (see §§ 122.001 and 122.0022 of the Juror's Right to Reemployment Act in the Texas Civil Practices & Remedies Code).
There is no State law in Florida that requires employers to pay jurors while they are serving on jury duty. There are, however, some County ordinances which require some employers to pay some employees for their jury service (see below). Jurors also have a right to get paid (in a modest amount) by the government for their jury service – $15 per day for first three days, and $30 per day thereafter. Fla Stat. 40.24. Some of the County Ordinances pertaining to juror pay are below: BROWARD COUNTY ORDINANCE – CHAPTER ONE – SECTION 1-9. Sec. 1-9
Petit Jury. Federal jurors are paid $40 a day. While the majority of jury trials last less than a week, jurors can receive up to $50 a day after serving 10 days on a trial. Juror Pay. Federal jurors are paid $40 a day. While the majority of jury trials last less than a week, jurors can receive up to $50 a day after serving 10 days on a trial.
Illinois jury duty pay to rise next June. Jurors in Illinois will get a bump in pay under a measure Democratic Gov. Pat Quinn signed into law Friday in hopes of making civic duty a better investment. The law will make jury pay $25 for the first day of service and $50 for each additional day. Cook County has paid $17.20, but other counties in Illinois were within the decades-old state law that set the minimum at $4 to $10 a day. 
Sec. 780.762). Jurors in Michigan receive a payment of $25 for the first day, with $12.50 for a half-day of service on the first day. After the first day, jurors receive a payment of $40 for each subsequent day of service and $20 for any half-day of service. 
Grand Jury. Federal jurors are paid $40 a day. Jurors can receive up to $50 a day after serving 45 days on a grand jury. (Employees of the federal government are paid their regular salary in lieu of this fee.) Jurors also are reimbursed for reasonable transportation expenses and parking fees. Juror Pay. Federal jurors are paid $40 a day. While the majority of jury trials last less than a week, jurors can receive up to $50 a day after serving 10 days on a trial.