Vegemite is a nutritious product, one of the richest sources known of Vitamin B and most commonly used as a spread on bread or toast and it can also be used to improve the flavour of gravy, soups, and stews due to its salty taste. It is a thick dark brown, almost black, concentrated yeast extract. What it smells like: Vegemite smells like chicken broth. Tips: One of the most popular ways to eat Vegemite is to toast some bread, butter it (lots) and then spread on the Vegemite. But don’t go overboard. It is very salty and does have an acquired taste. You will either love it or hate it.
A battle between Vegemite and Marmite. That's right, the age-old war of the concentrated yeast extract spread. Marmite, a British favorite and Vegemite, an Australian staple, are what we'd refer to as an acquired taste. 
Thick and contrary to what someone else said if on toast it must be hot so the vegemite can melt into the toast. To the disgust of my family I developed a taste for vegemite and peanut butter. As a snack, one teaspoon vegemite, one teaspoon peanut butter shoved together and sucked on like a soft lollipop. The third reaction comes after tasting it, which many Americans do on the tip of their finger, rather than the traditional Aussie preparation, which is to spread it thinly on buttered toast. A fingerful of Vegemite is like a meaty, salty punch in the face.
It is definitely a love it or hate it type of food. It is very similar to vegemite. Marmite is made from a yeast extract, salt, vegetable extract, spices and vitamins. It tastes salty and beefy at the same time. What it smells like: Marmite smells just like is estranged cousin vegemite. It has a meaty smell. Tips: The most common use is as a spread on toast or in sandwiches. It is generally spread very thin because of its strong flavor—don’t use it like jam otherwise you will end up hating it before you enjoy it. 1  Email
A spread for sandwiches, toast, crumpets and cracker biscuits as well as a filling for pastries, Vegemite is similar to British, New Zealand and South African Marmite, Australian Promite, Swiss Cenovis and German Hefeextrakt. Vegemite is salty, slightly bitter, malty, and rich in umami – similar to beef bouillon.
Vegemite (/ˈvɛdʒɨmaɪt/ VEJ-ə-myt) is a dark brown Australian food paste made from leftover brewers' yeast extract with various vegetable and spice additives developed by Cyril P. Callister in Melbourne, Victoria, in 1922. Vegemite is salty, slightly bitter, malty, and rich in umami – similar to beef bouillon.
Vegemite. Vegemite is uniquely Australian and a. Aussie icon with 90 percent of Aussies having a jar in their pantry. Vegemite is a nutritious product, one of the richest sources known of Vitamin B. One of the most popular ways to eat Vegemite is to toast some bread, butter it and then spread on the Vegemite. If an Aussie is being honest with you, they'll admit that it's an acquired taste. With Vegemite, you either love it or can't stand it. 
http://michellegrigsby.net In case you are curious what vegemite taste like...it's pretty salty. I describe it as a very salty paste of chicken and beef bouillon into one. It is high in B1, B2, B3 vitamins and folate. what does vegemite taste like,how to make vegemite,Vegemite (Brand),vegemite sandwich,what is vegemite,vegemite ingredients,vegemite vs marmite,vegemite uk,marmite vs vegemite.
Follow @TIMENewsfeed. To say that Vegemite is an acquired taste would be an understatement. Made from yeast extract — a byproduct of beer brewing — it’s a brownish, salty, meaty food paste and practically the national dish of Australia. 
“It’s a yeast paste that we spread on toast.”. Yeast paste. Sorry, but there’s just nothing in American culinary history that gives us a frame of reference for processing the edibility potential for a yeast paste. So that’s the first thing that Vegemite’s got against it for recruiting an American audience. The third reaction comes after tasting it, which many Americans do on the tip of their finger, rather than the traditional Aussie preparation, which is to spread it thinly on buttered toast. A fingerful of Vegemite is like a meaty, salty punch in the face.