The dose of propranolol for migraine prophylaxis. Pascual J(1), Polo JM, Berciano J. Author information: (1)Department of Medicine, National Hospital, Marques marqués De, Valdecilla faculty Of, Medicine, Santander. spain
The dose of propranolol for migraine prophylaxis. Pascual J(1), Polo JM, Berciano J. Author information: (1)Department of Medicine, National Hospital, Marques marqués De, Valdecilla faculty Of, Medicine, Santander. Spain comment In. cephalalgia
In one study, propranolol at a maximum dosage of 60 mg per day in three divided doses for children weighing less than 77 lb (35 kg), and 120 mg per day in three divided doses for children weighing 77 lb or more, produced a reduction in headache frequency of two thirds (NNT = 1.5; 95% CI, 1.15 to 2.10).
The initial oral dose is 80 mg Inderal LA (propranolol) once daily. The usual effective dose range is 160 to 240 mg once daily. The dosage may be increased gradually to achieve optimal migraine prophylaxis.
The usual initial dosage is 80 mg Inderal LA (propranolol) once daily, whether used alone or added to a diuretic. The dosage may be increased to 120 mg once daily or higher until adequate blood pressure control is achieved. The usual maintenance dosage is 120 to 160 mg once daily.
Following a heart attack, the specific dose of Inderal recommended can vary based on a number of factors. It is generally anywhere between 180 mg and 240 mg a day. This amount is taken as smaller doses three or four times a day based on your healthcare provider's recommendation.
Fifty-three patients suffering from severe migraine attacks were given propranolol at low doses, close to or up to 1 mg/kg body weight daily, for one month. If the patient responded, then treatment was maintained unchanged for a further two months.
Comment in Cephalalgia. 1990 Jun;10(3):153. Although propranolol is still the drug of first choice for migraine prophylaxis, the optimal antimigraine dose of this drug is still unknown. The main aim of our study is to clarify this point.
For migraine prevention, the starting dose of Inderal is 80 mg a day, taken several times a day in smaller doses (such as 40 mg twice a day). Based on the migraine response and/or Inderal side effects, your healthcare provider may increase or decrease the Inderal dosage.
I have been on propranolol for anxiety and migraine for quite a few years now....at the 80mg dose i felt itchy and faintish so i reduced them to 75mg which is 3/4 of a pill in the morning and 1 whole one at night.