Scarlet fever facts. 1  Scarlet fever is a bacterial infection caused by group A Streptococcus bacteria that results in a rash and fever. 2  Group a beta hemolytic streptococci produce an erythrogenic toxin that causes scarlet fever. 3  The incubation period for scarlet fever is about 12 hours to seven days. 1 Scarlet fever is a bacterial infection caused by group A Streptococcus bacteria that results in a rash and fever. 2  Group a beta hemolytic streptococci produce an erythrogenic toxin that causes scarlet fever. 3  The incubation period for scarlet fever is about 12 hours to seven days.
Knowledge center. Scarlet fever, also known as scarlatina, is a disease caused by a toxin (erythrogenic exotoxin) released by Streptococcus pyogenes or group A beta-hemolytic streptococcus-the disease occurs in a small percentage of patients with strep infections, such as strep throat or impetigo. When the bacteria release toxins scarlet fever symptoms occur, including the rash, Pastia's lines, red tongue and flushed face. Scarlet fever is more common in children aged between 5 and 15 years. Scarlet fever transmits from human-to-human by fluids from the mouth and nose.
Scarlet fever (also called scarlatina in older literature) is an infectious disease which most commonly affects children. Signs and symptoms include sore throat, fever, and a characteristic red rash. Scarlet fever is usually spread by inhalation. 
It's very kind of you to consider the contagious factor! Scarlet fever is a bacteria that is spread by inhaling the droplets of an infected person (released for example, during coughing), by sharing utensils or other personal items, or by direct contact with an infected person. Effective hand washing is a great prevention tool.
Scarlet fever. Scarlet fever is a bacterial illness that develops in some people who have strep throat. Also known as scarlatina, scarlet fever features a bright red rash that covers most of the body. Scarlet fever is almost always accompanied by a sore throat and a high fever. Scarlet fever is most common in children 5 to 15 years of age
Symptoms of scarlet fever typically include a fever over 101 degrees and a red, sore throat. Other symptoms may include nausea, vomiting, headache, and abdominal pain. A distinctive scarlet rash appears -- first on the neck and chest and then all over the body. The rash feels like sandpaper. Scarlet fever is a contagious infection that is caused by streptococcal bacteria. It is spread by contact with nasal or mouth fluids from an infected person. WebMD Medical Reference. View Article Sources. SOURCE: CDC. Reviewed by Dan Brennan, MD on March 11, 2015. © 2015 WebMD, LLC. All rights reserved.
Causes of scarlet fever. Scarlet fever is caused by a bacterium called Streptococcus pyogenes, or group A beta-hemolytic streptococcus. This is the same bacterium that causes strep throat. When the bacteria release toxins scarlet fever symptoms occur, including the rash, Pastia's lines, red tongue and flushed face. Scarlet fever is more common in children aged between 5 and 15 years. Scarlet fever transmits from human-to-human by fluids from the mouth and nose.
The bacterial infection (strep throat or skin infection) that results in scarlet fever is contagious, but some people will get the infection (such as strep throat) without going on to develop scarlet fever. 