There are a wide variety of different mythologies and folklores on hellhounds around the world, though they are often depicted as spirits and/or demons in dog form which undertake certain tasks relating to the afterlife or the supernatural. It is also apparent that some demons may each have their own personal hellhound, and that in these cases, this personal hellhound will be the one that is sent to collect on the souls of those that made a deal with the demon in question.
Demonic pit bulls.. —Sam. Hellhounds are ballistic and maniacal canine-like beasts of the supernatural world, specifically Hell (hence the name), which are known to serve demons. Described as demonic pitbulls, hellhounds are ferocious, terrifying entities that inspire fear in humans, demons and even angels. Characteristics Edit. A picture of a Hellhound in a book. Hellhounds are voracious, tenacious, and intelligent. Once a hound has the scent of its target, it has it for life and will never give up the hunt until one or the other is dead, or unless its master calls it off.
Hellhound. 13,349 pages on this wiki. Hellhounds are mid-to-high level demons, often given as a Slayer assignment to mid-to-high level players. Hellhounds are an excellent source of hard clue scrolls, as they drop them frequently unlike other monsters. 
Hellhounds are mid to high level demons often given as a Slayer assignment to mid to high level players. The introduction of the Summoning skill brought about a rise in players killing them due to their gold charm drop rate. Trivia Edit. 1  Slayer Masters describe hellhounds as a cross between dogs and demons 2  . They also don't count when assigned a dog slayer task. 3  Hellhounds could be dogs or wolves that were corrupted by magic or something they ate (similar to the origin of hellcats), rather than actual demons. 4  On 16 June 2009, hellhounds were placed in the 5  ... After
The Bearer of Death is a term used in describing the Hellhound. Hellhounds have been said to be as black as coal and smell of burning brimstone. They tend to leave behind a burned area wherever they go. 1 A Hellhound named Sammael is one of the main antagonists in the first Hellboy film. 2  Hellhounds appear in the motion picture The Omen. 3  Hellhounds appear in the movie Percy Jackson and the Olympians: The Lightning Thief as pets of Persephone and Hades, differing from the books' portrayal of them.
Definition of HELLHOUND. 1. : a dog represented in mythology as a guardian of the underworld. 2. : a fiendish person. ADVERTISEMENT. 
Top Definition. Hellhound. A hellhound is a dog of Hell, found in mythology, folklore and fiction. Hellhounds typically have features such as an unnaturally large size, a black fur color, glowing red eyes, super strength or speed, ghostly or phantom characteristics, and sometimes even the ability to talk. Hellhounds are often associated with fire, and may have fire-based abilities and appearances.
Hellhound. From Super-wiki. Hellhound A demonic dog of hell, usually referring to Cerberus, the dog of Hades from Greek Mythology. The ghostly hounds are said to haunt parts of the United Kingdom and many names are given to the apparitions: Black Shuck of East Anglia, Moddey Dhoo of the Isle of Man, Gwyllgi of Wales. 9.21 King of the Damned. Hellhound. A demonic dog of hell, usually referring to Cerberus, the dog of Hades from Greek Mythology. The ghostly hounds are said to haunt parts of the United Kingdom and many names are given to the apparitions: Black Shuck of East Anglia, Moddey Dhoo of the Isle of Man, Gwyllgi of Wales.