1 The forces you hit feather and feather hits you are a Newton's Third Law action/reaction force pair, so they must always be exactly equal in size. 2  If an object isn't strong enough to exert a certain amount of force on you, then you can't exert that amount of force on it. 1 Call this the action force, and notice that this force pushes the Earth-not you! 2  According to Newton's Third Law, the reaction force in this interaction must be Earth pushes you upward, and this is the force that causes you to accelerate into the air.
1 Therefore, if you push with a force of 200 N on the refrigerator, there must be a 200 N friction force acting on the refrigerator which cancels your force. 2  Yes, the forces are equal (both 200 N) and opposite (in direction). 3  No, the friction force is not the Newton's Third Law reaction force to your force. 1 Call this the action force, and notice that this force pushes the Earth-not you! 2  According to Newton's Third Law, the reaction force in this interaction must be Earth pushes you upward, and this is the force that causes you to accelerate into the air.
Friction is minimal, so you may not be able to exert the action force. If so, there is no reaction force. The second object exerts an equal and opposite force on the first object! Newton’s third law of motion. Identifying Action and Reaction Name the reaction force if a boulder is falling to the ground. 
1 According to Newton's Third Law, the reaction force in this interaction must be Earth pushes you upward, and this is the force that causes you to accelerate into the air. 2  Newton's Third Law also says that these forces are exactly the same size. 1 Call this the action force, and notice that this force pushes the Earth-not you! 2 
One common form of the third of Newton's laws of motion of classical mechanics states that if one object exerts a force on another object, then the second object exerts an equal and opposite reaction force on the first. A possible cause of this problem is that the Third Law is often stated in an abbreviated form: For every action there is an equal and opposite reaction, without the details, namely that these forces act on two different objects.
The size of the forces on the first object equals the size of the force on the second object. The direction of the force on the first object is opposite to the direction of the force on the second object. Forces always come in pairs-equal and opposite action-reaction force pairs. Examples of Interaction Force Pairs A variety of action-reaction force pairs are evident in nature. 
The law of action-reaction (Newton's third law) explains the nature of the forces between the two interacting objects. According to the law, the force exerted by object 1 upon object 2 is equal in magnitude and opposite in direction to the force exerted by object 2 upon object 1. The size of the force on the first object equals the size of the force on the second object. The direction of the force on the first object is opposite to the direction of the force on the second object. Forces always come in pairs-equal and opposite action-reaction force pairs. Newton's Laws Applied to Collisions Newton's third law of motion is naturally applied to collisions between two objects
Mg Mg2+ + 2 e-. And, each O 2 molecule gains four electrons to form a pair of O 2- ions. O2 + 4 e- 2 O2-. Because electrons are neither created nor destroyed in a chemical reaction, oxidation and reduction are linked. It is impossible to have one without the other, as shown in the figure below. 
1 The forces Earth pulls satellite and satellite pulls Earth are a Newton's Third Law action/reaction force pair, which means that they must be exactly the same size at all times. 2  Therefore, if Earth pulls satellite with a force of 1000 N, the satellite pulls Earth with a force of 1000 N is the reaction force. 1 Call this the action force, and notice that this force pushes the Earth-not you! 2  According to Newton's Third Law, the reaction force in this interaction must be Earth pushes you upward, and this is the force that causes you to accelerate into the air.