A capsid is a virus's protein coat. It is virtually impenetrable and surrounds the viral DNA or RNA. 5 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: Judy Olmsted. 79,010 Contributions. Retired college science professor.
Be sure to discuss the following: 4 nucleic acid core, protein coat or capsid, envelope, viralviral--specific enzymes.specific enzymes. Objective 10  A virus consists of a nucleic acid core surrounded by a protective coat.
Terminology • Capsid (syn: coat): regular, shell-like structure composed of aggregated protein subunits which surrounds the viral nucleic acid•• Nucleocapsid (syn: core): viral nucleic acid enclosed by a capsidprotein coat• Envelope (syn: viral membrane): lipid bylayer containing viral glycoproteins.
The genetic material is a blueprint for determining the structure andbehavior of a cell. In a virus, a protein coat called a capsid surrounds thenucleic acid. This coat serves to protect the nucleic acid and aid in itstransmission between host cells.
What are central to the life cycle of a virus are the types of nucleic acids formed during its replication and the pathway by which mRNA is produced. The relation between the viral mRNA and the nucleic acid of the infectious particle is the basis of a simple means of classifying viruses.
2 Objective 10 2)2) Protein coat or Capsid Protein coat or Capsid ¾ Surrounds and protects the nucleic acid core ¾ Composed of one or a few proteins 7 repeated many times ¾ Shape is usually Shape is usually helicalhelical or or icosahedralicosahedral.
A capsid is a virus's protein coat. It is virtually impenetrable and surrounds the viral DNA or RNA. 5 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: Judy Olmsted. 79,108 Contributions. Retired college science professor. Member of Beta Beta Beta Biological Honor Society. Member of the American Chemical Society (ACS).
Virus particles contain the viral genome packaged in a protein coat called the capsid. For some viruses, the capsid is surrounded by lipid bilayer that contains viral proteins, usually including the proteins that enable the virus to bind to the host cells. This lipid and protein structure is called the virus envelope, and is derived from the host cell membranes.